
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND admits students, ranks as “dream school” 
University receives 


Parents rank Notre 
more applications, 
Dame as No. 4 
accepts fewer students 
choice for children 
By TORI ROECK 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
News Writer 
When most colleges see in-
March saw Notre Dame ris­
creases in applications, they 
ing in another set of rankings, 
admit more students, assum­
as the Princeton Review survey 
ing a large number of them 
“College Hopes and Worries” 
will choose to attend other 
listed the University as parents’ 
schools. 
No. 4 “dream college” for their 
But Bob Mundy, director 
children, up from No. 9 in 2011. 
of admissions, said the yield 
Notre Dame was ranked be-
for admitted applicants who 
hind Stanford University, Princ­
chose to attend the University 
eton University and Harvard 
last year was unpredictably 
University. 
high, leading to a decrease 
According to the Princeton 
in the number of acceptances 
Review’s website, “dream col-
this year. 
leges” are schools that parents 
“Clearly we think we’ve be-
wish they were sending their 
come a more popular option 
children to if cost and admis­
out there,” Mundy said. 
sion were not contributing fac-
According to Don Bishop, 
tors. A separate ranking listed 
associate vice president for 
the top ten dream colleges for 
undergraduate enrollment, 
students. 
16,952 high school seniors ap-
Bob Mundy, director of ad-
plied for a spot in the Class of 
missions, said the ranking 
2016 and 3,850 were admit-
speaks to the positive percep­
ted. Last year, the University 
tion of Notre Dame nationwide. 
received 16,520 applications 
“If you can step back and 
and accepted 4,019 students, 
think about it as a parent might, 
Bishop said. 
I think it provides a nicely il-
The number of internation­
lustrative view of Notre Dame,” 
al applicants and applicants 
Mundy said. “Parents want 
of color also rose this year, he 
great things for their children, 
said. 
and I think this is a statement 
Bishop said this year’s ac-
that they see Notre Dame as a 
ceptance rate was 22.7 per-
unique combination of educa-
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


see APPLICANTS/page 3 see DREAM/page 6 


University leaders address discrimination 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
In the wake of last month’s in­cidents of racial discrimination against two student groups and the March 5 town hall meeting held in response, Notre Dame student leaders, faculty, staff and administrators are formulating a “Plan of Action” for addressing discrimination on campus. 
Senior Brittany Suggs, chair of the Black Student Association (BSA), said the decision to create the Plan of Action arose from the student body’s response to the town hall meeting. She said stu­dents called for “more direct in­volvement in changes on campus” with regard to racial incidents and discrimination. 
“[The Plan of Action] also came from the belief of students that we have meetings and forums and discussions of these issues, but people leave feeling like, ‘I said all this, but what happens next? What will be done? How will the words we share be transferred to actual change?’” she said. 
Suggs sent a campus-wide email last week alerting the Notre Dame community to the creation of the Plan of Action. 
Town hall attendees submit­ted personal responses address­ing the changes they wanted to see with regard to discrimina­tion in specific areas of campus life, Suggs said. These responses will be used to formulate a for­mal proposal to be presented to the University administration in early May. 
“The committee goal is to have … something in place for transi­tioning officers [of student orga­


see TOWN/page 6 

Professor discusses HHS mandate 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 

Amid national controversy over the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) contraception mandate, mem­bers of the Notre Dame com­munity discussed the devel­opment of conscience in the Catholic faith Monday. 
Led by David Clairmont, as­sistant professor of moral the­ology, the talk provided context for understanding the debate over the mandate requiring employers to include contra­ception in their insurance packages. 
“The bishops want to have the specific effects of the man­date on Catholic institutions eliminated so Catholic institu­tions will not be in the situa­tion of providing things that go against Church teaching, even if there are varieties of opin­ions among Catholics about 
see MANDATE/page 6 

XULE LIN/The Observer 

Professor Clairmont discusses the contraceptive mandate and conscience formation in the Geddes Hall coffee house on Monday. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students help community members with taxes page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Baking with Brenna page 11 u Women’s basketball page 20 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: MAY THE ODDS BE EVER... 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Emily Nash  Elizabeth Surat  Spencer Ness  Kevin McMannis  Colin Ebert  Blake Prunsky  
sophomore Lyons  sophomore Lyons  sophomore Alumni  freshman Duncan  freshman Duncan  freshman Duncan  
“In your favor.”  “In your favor.”  “Two weeks from Wake Week.”  “With the women’s  “In your favor?”  “With your carrot.”  
basketball  
team.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Marisa Iati Christian Myers Adam Llorens 

Graphics 
Marina Kozak 

Photo 
Ashley Dacy 


Sports 

Sam Gans Katie Heit Isaac Lorton 

Scene 

Maija Gustin 

Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 


OFFBEAT 
Divorce Expo is antidote to wedding industry 
NEW YORK — New York City’s first-ever Divorce Expo is being touted as “one-stop shopping” for lonely hearts suffering through a breakup. 
“Start Over Smart” will be held at the Metropolitan Pavilion this weekend. Its founders say the expo is an antidote to the nation’s mas­sive wedding planning in­dustry. 
Various exhibits will help people sort through recom­mended divorce attorneys, therapists and financial planners. There will be free makeovers and dating ad­vice, personal shoppers, hairstylists and matchmak­ers. An evening “mixer” will allow people to socialize and 


LOCAL WEATHER 

perhaps meet someone new. 
Divorce expos have been held in other cities, but this is billed as the first for New York. 
Francine Baras, who co-founded the event, says they are hoping to show people that there really is a life af­ter divorce. 
House candidate can note astronaut past on ballot 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — A congressional candidate in California’s Central Valley can note on ballots that he used to be an astronaut. 
A Sacramento County judge ruled Thursday that Democrat Jose Hernandez can use the ballot designa­tion “astronaut.” Hernandez is challenging freshman Rep. 
Jeff Denham, a Republican from Turlock, for California’s 10th District seat. 
A Sacramento law firm had argued in a lawsuit that Hernandez’s use of the moni­ker would violate state elec­tions law because Hernandez has left NASA. Hernandez had flown aboard the shuttle Discovery in 2009. 
The Sacramento Bee re­ports that Superior Court Judge Lloyd Connelly ruled that ballot designations ap­parently can reflect a profes­sion or vocation held during the previous calendar year. Hernandez spent two weeks at NASA in 2011 before leav­ing the agency. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Saint Mary’s College stu­dents are selling $6 Silver Hawks tickets for the game on Friday, April 20. Proceeds will go to the Cystic Fibro­sis Foundation. Help raise awareness and make CF stand for Cure Found. Con­tact Liz Leeuw at lleeuw01@ gmail.com to purchase tick­ets. 
Dr. Harry Kolar, IBM Dis­tinguished Engineer, will talk about how his efforts with the SmartBay Galway project and REON (River Es­tuary Observatory Network) are supporting IBM’s Smarter Planet Initiative utilizing ad­vanced analytics and cross-industry technologies today from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. in 136 DeBartolo. 
Peter A. Hall will deliver a lecture titled “The Eurocri­sis: Its Origins and Implica­tions” today from 12:30 to 2 p.m. in Room C103 at the Hesburgh Center. 
R. David Edmunds, Watson Professor of American Histo­ry at the University of Texas at Dallas, will discuss the Battle of Tippecanoe as the opening battle of the War of 1812, and will also discuss how the bat­tle changed the nature of the Native American resistance movement tonight from 7 to 8 
p.m. at the Eck Visitors Cen­ter auditorium. 
Campus-wide Stations of the Cross begin at 8 p.m. at the Grotto. In case of severe weather, Stations will begin at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 9:00 p.m., followed by Reconciliation. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 












CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
HIGH 55 LOW 45 

HIGH 62 LOW 38 
HIGH 55 LOW 34 

HIGH 62 LOW 39 
HIGH 69 LOW 50 

Group aids locals with tax returns 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Through the Vivian Har­rington Gray Notre Dame-Saint Mary’s Tax Assistance Program, students at both in­stitutions are preparing tax returns for South Bend com­munity members with less than $40,000 of income. 
Saint Mary’s senior Kama­ra Umbaugh, the program’s public relations director, said Notre Dame professor Ken Milani began the program as a volunteer effort in 1972 to meet a perceived need. 
“Through his unceasing ef­fort, this tax assistance pro­gram has really flourished under Milani,” Umbaugh said. “Over 3,900 tax returns were filed in 2011 with the pro­gram.” 
The program prepares fed­eral and state tax returns for families and individuals as well as tax-filing services for international students, Um­baugh said. She said the pro­gram’s office is in the Mendoza College of Business. 
“Participants are Notre Dame or Saint Mary’s stu­dents who have completed a tax class at those institutions and have further passed an IRS [Internal Revenue Service] examination,” Umbaugh said. “Students must pass both the basic and intermediate level examinations conducted by the IRS to become involved with the program.” 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students receive two academic credits for taking a lecture course on individual income tax preparation and participating in the program, Umbaugh said. 
“When I heard of this, I im­mediately was interested,” she said. “I highly value phi­lanthropy and being able to utilize my knowledge to offer services that benefit those in the community.” 

As public relations director, Umbaugh is responsible for scheduling, staffing and as­sisting with television and ra­dio promotional activities. 
“I try to promote the pro­gram throughout the commu­nity and make sure that oth­ers are aware of this free tax preparation service we pro­vide for them,” Umbaugh said. 
In addition to this position, Umbaugh said she is also part of the SWAT-2 subsection of the program, which visits in­dividual homes of senior citi­zens to help them with their income tax preparation. These services are provided at nine locations in the South Bend-Mishawaka area, she said. 
“This allows for us to pro-vide services at their conve­nience,” Umbaugh said. “We have been to St. Paul’s Retire­ment Community as well as other nursing homes or senior living communities as well to provide services to individu­als at these locations.” 


Umbaugh said she is grate­ful for the chance to partici­pate in the program. 
“Business majors should take Federal Taxation or an­other tax class their junior year so that they can be in­volved in the program for both their junior and senior years,” Umbaugh said. “Luckily, I have gotten the opportunity to participate in the program both years, and it truly is a re­warding experience.” 
For more information about the program, visit taptax. nd.edu. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group considers price of single dorm rooms 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
In the last meeting before Eas­ter break, Campus Life Council 
(CLC) members discussed the surcharge students pay for single rooms and the bike shop resolu­tion. 
Sr. Carrine Etheridge, rector of Farley Hall, said she recently be­came aware of the extra cost to students that opt to live in single rooms in residence halls. 
“If there’s a surcharge for sin­gles, why isn’t there one for air conditioned dorms, or brand new ones versus old ones?” she said. “Also, are the students aware of this, and are their parents?” 
Many students only become aware of the surcharge when moving into a single after a study abroad program, Etheridge said. 
“When they came back from overseas and got a single, they found out when they got the bill,” she said. 
Etheridge said the University should inform students of the ex­tra cost, especially before room picks. 
“If they’re going to have it, it needs to be transparent,” she said. “And if they’re going to take that money, it should go back to the dorms for things like paint and 
Applicants 
continued from page 1 
cent, down from 24 percent last year and 29 percent two years ago. He said 2,500 applicants were put on the waitlist. 
Because so many admitted ap­plicants chose to attend Notre Dame, not a single student was accepted off the waitlist last year, Mundy said. 
“We’ve admitted about 170 few­er students than last year, with the goal of being able to admit some students off the waitlist,” he said. 
Admitted applicants’ academic qualifications remained impres­sive, with a median SAT score of 1460 and ACT score of 33, Bishop said. The median high school class performance for the admitted class was also the top one to two percent, he said. 
“We could admit 75 percent of our applicants and still have a group that would be very success­ful here,” Mundy said. 
Bishop said these statistics have improved greatly in the past few years. 
“About a fourth or a fifth of the class that five years ago would have gained admission, in today’s competition, would not,” Bishop said. 
The number of admitted legacy children remains higher than at most elite colleges, Bishop said. Twenty-four percent of this year’s admitted class is a legacy com­pared to about 12 percent at most top 10 schools, he said, but this is because legacy applicants tend to be very qualified. 
“Notre Dame alumni have tra­ditionally had more children, and Notre Dame alumni children are more loyal to applying to Notre Dame,” Bishop said. “Even though there is this special consideration, a disproportionate … share of our top students are children of alum­ni.” 
The increase in exceptional ap­plicants and decrease in available carpet.” 
Pat McCormick, former student body president, said student gov­ernment would consider if such a change could occur. 
“It could become a resolution as well if we had more information, if there’s an interest,” he said. “That would definitely be something to look into.” 
McCormick said voting on the bike shop resolution was post­poned again because not enough senators were present at CLC to allow a vote. He said the group would vote on the resolution with­in the next few weeks. 
“We continue to look for every possible way of supporting the bike shop and were pleased the Student Senate passed a unani­mous resolution in support of it last week,” he said. “We hope the members of the CLC will also vote in favor of the resolution.” 
McCormick closed the meeting with congratulations to the new administration. 
“I would be remiss if I didn’t ac­knowledge our new student body president, Brett Rocheleau,” he said. “And thank you to everyone who worked hard on the efforts we made this year.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 
spots contributed to more selec­tivity in the admissions process, Bishop said. 
“We’re more selective, but we’re more on mission,” Bishop said. “Once the numbers get so high in the academic credentials of the student, it’s not necessary to continue to use those numbers to distinguish one student from an­other.” 
Bishop said admissions officers choose qualified students by ex­amining characteristics that fit the Notre Dame educational phi­losophy. 
“You start looking at the other attributes … [such as] intellec­tual drive and ambition … their creativity, their sense of service to others, their leadership … [and] being active in service and faith,” he said. 
Because most of the admitted applicants will have been accept­ed to other top schools, many stu­dents’ decisions will rely on finan­cial aid, Bishop said. 
“The financial aid staff is going to be working extremely hard on counseling families and assisting them,” he said. “Notre Dame will likely spend over $27 million in fi­nancial aid to the freshman class, and that’s gift aid. Over the course of four years, it will be over $100 million.” 
Bishop said other accepted ap­plicants will base their decisions on campus visits and current stu­dents should look out for them. 
“All the students on campus should know that we’re going to have a lot of visiting admitted stu­dents who are going to be compar­ing us with a lot of great choices,” he said. “We’re hoping that our students will take this opportunity to reach out to the visiting students and tell them about Notre Dame.” 
Overall, Mundy said he is pleased with the Class of 2016. 
“It’s safe to say we feel really good about the group as it stands right now,” he said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 



31 Lengths raises money for Uganda 

By CAROLINA WILSON 
News Writer 
Through the 31 Lengths Campaign, a team of passion­ate Notre Dame students is us­ing its business skills to create an entrepreneurship center at the Lacor Secondary School near Gulu, Uganda. 
Freshman Emily Mediate, undergraduate project leader, said the center’s resources will benefit the entire commu­nity of Gulu. 
“We are working on imple­menting a variety of pro­grams at the center, including a speaker series, training of the librarian at the entrepre­neurship center [and] imple­mentation of entrepreneur teaching materials and an MBA internship program,” Mediate said. 
MBA student Conor Evans and his wife Lauren Evans used their talents in construc­tion design and their inter­est in the role of business in emerging economies to found the campaign, Mediate said. She said Conor spoke with several non-governmental organizations in developing countries during the first year of his master’s program. 
Mediate said the story of Secretariat, a racehorse that won the 1973 Belmont Stakes by 31 horse lengths, inspired the campaign. According to the campaign’s website, Secre­tariat serves as a metaphor for people’s abil­ity to achieve when they are empow­ered. 

Mediate said some of the campaign’s most successful fundraisers so far have been small. 
“We actually held an un­dergraduate dodgeball tour­nament event earlier in the month to raise awareness and funding for the project,” she said. “The event was a huge success.” 
Members of the campaign helped construct the entre­preneurship center during 
The project “It has been amazing is meant to to see the project grow strengthen from an idea to a plan education to a structure and an in Gulu and implementation.” 
requires 90 thousand 

Emily Mediate 
dollars to 

freshman 
complet e, 
Mediate said. 
“We are fini shing raising the last part of funds for the library and will finish construction and begin implementation of business programs over the summer,” she said. 
Notre Dame’s spring break, Mediate said. She said they will collabo­rate with the Invisible Children or­ganization and Ugandan professionals to train the staff mem­bers that will run the cen­ter. 
“I heard from MBA students who 

went over spring break that there was a huge response from the children at the school,” Mediate said. “They are more than thrilled to be getting an entrepreneurship center at their school avail­able with numerous resources to them.” 
Mediate said the campaign’s mission extends beyond rais­ing money to construct a building. 
“This project is about using each individual’s talent in a way that unlocks the potential of others,” she said. 
The entrepreneurship cen­ter’s grand opening is sched­uled for late August, Mediate said. She said she thinks the center’s inception will mark the beginning of educational growth in Gulu. 
“It has been amazing to see the project grow from an idea to a plan to a structure and an implementation,” Mediate said. “Not only is this project focused on building an entre­preneurship center with re­sources for the children at the secondary school, it aims to empower the Ugandan people to take advantage of the eco­nomic opportunities flourish­ing in Gulu.” 
For more information or to donate to the campaign, visit 31lengthscampaign.com. 
Contact Carolina Wilson at cwilso16@nd.edu 

HolyVotes explores politics and Catholicism 
By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
Four political science pro­fessors will share the Wash­ington Hall stage April 12 to exchange and debate their opinions about the intersec­tion of Catholicism and poli­tics. 
HolyVotes, an event seeking to open a pathway for political discussion on campus, will re­place the God Debate, held in past years. 
Senior Malcolm Phelan de­scribed HolyVotes as a “light­chose themselves,” Dutt said. “All three were brave enough to tackle the issue in a public forum.” 
Rosato, a professor of politi­cal science specializing in in­ternational relations, said he will represent the Democratic position, which is often con­sidered more controversial be­cause of the Catholic tendency to vote Republican. 
“It’s a very complex issue, one that many people view as black and white,” Rosato said. “The assumption is if you vote Re­publican, you are going straight 
hearted and rational politi­cal debate” that needs to take place at Notre Dame in order to counter the political dia­logue currently dominating the media. 
“Most news outlets and po­litical commen­tators seem to be acting out some form of grotesque trag­edy about the death of reason and discourse,” 

“The assumption is if you vote Republican, you are going straight to the pro-life argument, and if you’re Democrat, you are going straight to the social justice issues.” 
Sebastian Rosato Professor of political science 
to the pro-life argument, and if you’re Democrat, you are going to run straight to the social justice issues. 
“I think there is a lot of over­lap, and I think that the parties are internally divided, and that therefore, this is a de­bate that really needs to occur on campus.” 
Rosato said defending the 
Phelan said. 
“That’s exactly why we are hosting HolyVotes. We want to lay out our civic beliefs as Catholics, and then discuss which form of government best helps us to achieve those 

goals.” “I believe I was put bates, people 
HolyVot es on this earth to make typically tend will feature arguments and to make to give the professors Se-them regardless of party line or bastian Rosato, the Catholic 
what people thought.” 
Eric Sims, Vin-stance, and cent Munoz and there is no one 
Sebastian Rosato 
Michael Desch. on the other 
Junior Arnav Professor of political end,” Rosato Dutt, a coordi-science said. “I think 
nator for the event, said he was grateful for the faculty members’ willingness to voice their opinions outside of the classroom. 
“In a way, these professors 
Democratic stances on abor­tion and gay marriage repre­sents the most difficult task, but he believes his arguments can counter the opposition if received with 
an open mind. 
“In these 
types of de­
the other pro­
fessors in­
volved in this 
debate are well-intentioned, and I believe most people in the room will be able to treat it as a debate, but I fear it may devolve into name calling.” 
Despite advice not to par­ticipate in HolyVotes, Rosato said he believes it is his duty to ask the charged questions and contribute to overturning the paradigm of asserting truths rather than debating issues. 
“I believe I was put on this earth to make arguments and to make them regardless of what people thought,” Rosato said. “As a privileged profes­sor at Notre Dame, I’m meant to inform and contribute to raising the level of discourse. My job is to think, and that’s why I said yes.” 
Dutt said the event is meant to encourage contemplation and dialogue. 
“Students should expect an intellectually stimulating de­bate conducted at a high vol­ume,” he said. 
Phelan agreed HolyVotes should make attendees think. 
“My hope is that we all stum­ble out of Washington Hall, slightly dazed at the brilliance of Rosato, Munoz, Sims and Desch while considering what duties we owe our country and our fellow citizens.” 
Contact Aubrey Butts at abutts@nd.edu 


Dream 
continued from page 1 
tion of the mind and heart.” 
While some other univer­sities were chosen as dream colleges for both parents and students, Notre Dame did not make the student list. 
“There is definitely a dif­ference between the student and parent perspectives,” Mundy said. “They’re look­ing for some of the same things, but not all, so natu­rally different factors come into play.” 
Mundy said he believes the ranking demonstrates this disparity in goals. 
“Parents really see college as a time to grow intellectu­ally, socially and spiritually, and in this case, it means that they see Notre Dame as an ideal place for this.” 
University Spokesman Dennis Brown said the ad­ministration was pleased about the ranking. 
“We believe Notre Dame is among the nation’s best in providing an extraordi­nary undergraduate experi­ence, and we’re pleased that parents who engaged in this survey have recognized as much,” Brown said. 
He said, however, the Uni­versity does not allow such 
rankings  to  carry  much  
weight.  
“While  we  recognize that  

the various college surveys and rankings serve a useful function for some prospec­tive students and their par­ents, we have joined with 
Mandate 
continued from page 1 
those preferences,” Clairmont said. 
Mary Daly, program coor­dinator for the Office for Uni­versity Life Initiatives, said the HHS mandate passed under the Affordable Care Act also requires coverage for Plan B, sterilization and education on family planning methods. This goes against the conscience of Catholic employers, including universities, charities and hos­pitals, she said. 
“[The mandate] requires in­dividuals to perform immoral acts against their consciences,” Daly said. 
Daly said the event, which was cosponsored by Campus Ministry, the Center for Ethics and Culture, the Center for So­cial Concerns, the Gender Re­lations Center, the Institute for Church Life and the University Life Initiatives office, aims to improve understanding of the key assertions in the debate over the HHS mandate. 
“People were coming at this from different angles of not un­derstanding what the church was teaching,” she said. “We thought the most helpful thing we could provide for the stu­dents was what it means to form your conscience. We thought that would be the best starting point for students for thinking and talking about these issues.” 
Clairmont referenced one of the most frequently cited de­scriptions of conscience, the Second Vatican Council, which others for 20 years in ex­pressing our reservations about their various method­ologies,” Brown said. 


Mundy said he believes rankings like this could po­tentially affect future appli­cant pools. 
“It might help more in the early stages of the applica­tion process,” he said. “If Notre Dame is on the par­ents’ radar and that helps get us on the student radar, that’s a good thing.” 
Parents’ influence over their children is an impor­tant component of academic 
describes conscience as human beings’ attempts to live in ways that bring them ultimate happi­ness with God. 
“Deep within his conscience, man discovers a law which he has not laid upon himself, but which he must obey,” Clairmont said. “His voice, ever calling him to love and to do what is good and to avoid evil.” 
Clairmont said people must work to improve their con­sciences by studying witnesses in the Church, like saints, and learning from the Church’s teaching authority. 
“[Conscience] needs to be de­veloped throughout one’s whole life,” he said. “It’s never fully formed. It’s life-long work … There are recruiting, Mundy said. 
“Once we can get on stu­dents’ radar, we can pretty much do the rest,” he said. 
Mundy said the rankings, though positive, would not affect University policy in the short or long term. 
“Rankings give a global view of our institution,” he said. “They don’t necessar­ily affect our internal pol­icy. This is certainly a very positive affirmation for us, though.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
constantly open to having one’s own experiences interrogated.” 
Addressing the pro-mandate argument that many Catholics do not adhere to the Church’s anti-contraception values and so do not oppose the mandate, Clairmont said conscience can always change and be im­proved. 
“It’s not as if conscience wells up in a pure judgment, saying, “This is what I must do,’” he said. “This is a judgment at this time, in light of what I know and the experiences I have already had. Those experiences might change.” 
Clairmont said he hoped the conversation about Catholic 
conscience 
would have 
long -ter m 

always ways positive ef­
“We have opportunities 

we can devel-fects. 
to shift the discussion 

op our moral “We have 
slightly ... as an 

conscience.”  opportunities 
opportunity to teach 

Clairmont to shift the contrasted people in the wider discussion this Catho-society how Catholics slightly … as lic idea of understand conscience.” an opportu­conscience, nity to teach rooted in people in the 
David Clairmont 

never-ending wider society 
Assistant Professor 

improvement how Catho­
of Moral Theology 

based in the lics under-Catechism, stand religion with the mod-and religious ern, secular freedom, how belief that conscience is entirely we understand conscience,” individual. Clairmont said. “Conscience 
“Formation in conscience has a very particular place in comes through studying the the logic of the faith’s presenta­teachings of the Church on the tion. And that is something that matters pertaining to human is relevant to the public discus-happiness, and by studying the sion.” lived examples of other Chris­tians,” he said. “Formation in Contact Abi Hoverman at happiness requires one to be ahoverma@nd.edu 

Town 
continued from page 1 
nizations] coming into their posi­tions and to have something for seniors who have been involved to see something formally put in place to carry on in the future,” Suggs said. 
The Plan of Action committee unites Student Government, BSA, the African Student Association (ASA), Alliance of Black Leaders, Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS), the Notre Dame Coalition for Human Dig­nity, the Progressive Student As­sociation, MECHa, the Diversity Council of Notre Dame, the Center for Social Concerns and other in­terested individuals in compiling campus responses into a compre­hensive proposal on how to ad­dress and combat discrimination, Suggs said. 
“We would love for the whole campus to be involved in the pro­cess, but it’s not feasible with the size of the student body,” she said. “We’re taking the main student leaders of campus majority and minority groups and faculty lead­ers, bringing them together from different backgrounds and points of view on the issue, meeting with them to first highlight the main problem and creating a goal of sorts to keep us focused on the task at hand.” 
MSPS Director Iris Outlaw said some recurring themes appeared during the categorization of per­sonal responses from town hall attendees, including a lack of cul­tural competency in interactions with residence hall staff, Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and faculty members; racial profiling by NDSP; inappropriately themed residence hall activities; the “iso­lating” nature of First Year Ori­entation, especially for students of color; and a lack of University support for departments like Afri­cana Studies and the Institute for Latino Studies. 
“[The responses showed that] the campus climate overall is isolating, and majority students are often unaware of how inter­national and minority students feel about it,” Outlaw said. “Even though we address diversity in the Contemporary Topics course, it only plants the seeds.” 
Outlaw said many responders expressed interest in a semester-long course in cultural compe­tency that would educate students about real world diversity issues that specifically affect the Notre Dame community. 
“In cultural competency class­es, students might study coun­tries like Spain, Italy and Ireland,” Outlaw said. “But we need to talk about what’s going on in our back­yard too.” 
Some town hall attendees also called for mandatory diver­sity training for faculty and staff members to further improve cul­tural competency on campus, Out­law said. 
“Things are written in hand­books, but most people never look at them unless they have an issue or need it for something else,” she said. 
In the weeks prior to the Febru­ary incidents involving the BSA and ASA, Student Senate passed a resolution advocating for in­creased reporting of discrimina­tory incidents, student body presi­dent Brett Rocheleau said. 
“We worked with Diversity Council and found that there are a lot of unreported instances of discrimination, so we want to advocate for students to feel free and safe to report instances of dis­crimination,” Rocheleau said. 
Outlaw said these unreported cases of discrimination prompt­ed administrators to assess the availability and accessibility of re­sources for reporting and dealing with discrimination on campus. 
“That [assessment] has been key because some resources haven’t been easy to find, especially when important information has been lost in web page changes,” she said. “We’ve been introspective, so it’s great that we’re now trying to be proactive to make the Universi­ty the place we know it should be.” 
This proactive mindset distin­guishes the current movement from similar initiatives in the past, Outlaw said. 
“The call for accountability has been twofold across the institu­tion,” she said. “We’re holding students accountable for incidents they experience or witness, and the administration is helping stu­dents navigate the system, speak­ing out against discrimination and doing an internal assessment.” 
Suggs said Notre Dame is fortu­nate to have a supportive campus environment. 
“Other campuses may have much more deep-rooted issues from living in a post-civil rights era, so thankfully campus is be­hind us and has the awareness that something needs to be done,” she said. “But we can’t let it die as it has many times before, and we can’t leave it in the hands of a few individuals.” 
All members of the Notre Dame community can act individually on that accountability, she said. 
“Everybody can take up their call with little things like report­ing discrimination, encouraging teachers to facilitate discussion in class, doing your part when others are victimized and not turning your head in the other direction and pushing a zero-tolerance mission for discrimi­nation,” she said. 
Former student body president Pat McCormick said the work of student groups and responses to the town hall demonstrate soli­darity among the University com­munity. 
“The initiatives that have devel­oped in the call to action and the work of Student Senate, student government and members of the coalition indicate that the student body is standing in solidarity on these issues,” he said. “My hope is that it’s one of the things we’ve taken away from this … and that it’s not the end but rather the be­ginning of facing these challenges together.” 
McCormick and Suggs said the administration and faculty mem­bers have been receptive and ac­tive in addressing the responses to these incidents, especially the Of­fices of the Provost, the President and Student Affairs. 
“The Office of the Provost and [vice president and associate pro­vost for undergraduate studies] Dr. Don Pope-Davis have been ex­tremely generous with their time and are looking for ways to con­front challenges systemically from the perspective of the academy,” McCormick said. 
Most importantly, the campus community must understand the importance of uniting in the fight against discrimination, Suggs said. 
“It’s not just my issue or a BSA, ASA and minority issue,” she said. “Whether you have a past, present or future at Notre Dame, it’s all our issue to solve this.” 
Suggs said Notre Dame should be held to its reputation and the high standards it has in “every­thing you could possibly name,” and discrimination is no excep­tion.  
“This is a crucial part of the Notre Dame and Holy Cross mis­sion that has been overlooked,” she said. “We need the Notre Dame community to further that mission and see it through … with the same vigor as we see every­thing else through.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

SMC partners with Rebuilding Together 
By CHRISTIN KLOSKI 
News Writer 
Through the non-profit part­nership Rebuilding Together, Saint Mary’s students are work­ing with economically disadvan­taged homeowners in the South Bend area to transform their homes. 
Olivia Critchlow, assistant di­rector for the Office of Civic and Social Engagement, said home­owners apply to the program and are chosen based on their need. She said Saint Mary’s has volunteered with Rebuilding To­gether for eight years and will donate $3,500 to remodeling one of the 25 houses that were cho­sen this year. 
“This becomes the Saint Mary’s student experience,” she said. “The students have hands-on opportunities to see a com­plete transformation.” 
Critchlow said this year’s home rehabilitation will be in South Bend’s River Park neigh­borhood and provides an oppor­tunity for the South Bend com­munity to serve together. 
“Students will be doing the unskilled labor, which includes painting, light landscaping and other exterior work,” Critchlow said. 
Skilled laborers will work on the houses the weekend be­fore the student volunteers do, Critchlow said. Plumbers, elec­tricians and roofers will attend to major details, while students work on minor details. 
Students do much of the manu­al labor required to remodel the homes of single-parent families and elderly individuals in order to ease some of their burdens, Critchlow said. The rebuilding gives particular relief to families in a tough economic time. 
“The experience will also give students an opportunity to meet members of the South Bend community and hear their stories,” Critchlow said. “It is an incredible feeling of accom­plishment and community for all involved.” 
Critchlow said Saint Mary’s Office for Civic and Social En­gagement will collect donations for constructing the sponsored house. 
According to a press release from Critchlow, the South Bend Medical Foundation will also host a blood drive April 11 to raise funds. For every unit of blood collected, she said the Foundation will donate $5 to the effort. 
Volunteering with Rebuilding Together is different than par­ticipating in other volunteer op­portunities, Critchlow said. 
“In the rebuilding project, an entire group works together to work on a house in the morning and see its complete transfor­mation by the time that they all leave in the afternoon,” she said. 
Critchlow said although the volunteer experience is short, it leaves a feeling of accomplish­ment. 
“Unlike other volunteer expe­riences, where volunteers wait for a few months to see the out­come, the Rebuilding Together project gives students the oppor­tunity to see the outcome within a few hours,” Critchlow said. “They get to see a face-lift on the house that they’ve been working on for half of a day.” 
According to Critchlow’s press release, 80 percent of Saint Mary’s students participate in service before graduating. 
“It is through service events like Rebuilding Together, that bring our students together with those in need in the community to connect in very real and tan­gible ways, that truly help to make our world a better place,” she said. 
Critchlow said the house re­building will take place April 21 and students who want to volun­teer should sign up by April 18. 
Contact Christin Kloski at cklosk01@saintmarys.edu 

Burger King updates menu with new items 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Burger King is try­ing to revive its ailing empire with a rival’s recipe for success. 
After years of lackluster sales of its Whoppers and fries, the struggling fast-food giant on Monday launched 10 food items in its biggest menu expansion since the chain was started in 1954. 
But there are unmistakable similarities between Burger King’s new lineup and the offer­ings its much-bigger rival Mc­Donald’s has rolled out in recent years. The Golden Arches al­ready rolled out specialty salads in 2003, snack wraps in 2006, premium coffee drinks in 2009, and fruit smoothies in 2010. 
Burger King doesn’t deny that its new chicken strips, caramel frappe coffees, Caesar salads and strawberry-banana smooth­ies sound pretty close to those on McDonald’s popular menu. But executives say the company came up with them through its research. 
“Consumers wanted more choices,” said Steve Wiborg, president of Burger King’s North America operations. “Not just healthy choices, but choices they could get at the competition.” 
The menu additions are part of Burger King’s plan to abandon its nearly single-minded court­ship of young men, who were once the lifeblood of the industry but were hard hit by the econom­ic downturn. Competitors went after new customers with break­fast items and healthier fare, but Burger King let its menu get stale. As a result, Burger King for the first time was edged out by Wendy’s last year as the na­tion’s No. 2 burger chain. McDon­ald’s solidified its hold on No. 1. 
To stem the decline, Burger King executives last year decid­ed to modernize the 7,200-res­taurant chain’s aging stores, redesign worker uniforms with aprons so they stay clean and even serve the iconic Whopper in cardboard cartons instead of paper wrapping for the first time in more than 20 years. Food, however, is at the heart of their plan. 

Romney shifts focus to Obama 
Associated Press 

GREEN BAY, Wis. — As Mitt Romney looked for a sweep in Tuesday’s three Republican primaries to tighten his grip on the party’s nomination, President Barack Obama criti­cized the GOP front-runner by name in a campaign ad for the first time, signaling that he too thinks the nomination race is all but over. 
Regardless of the outcome in Wisconsin, Maryland and Washington, D.C., Romney was rapidly shifting toward the general election — and the challenges of Obama’s better-financed and better-organized opposition. 
The president flexed that campaign muscle Monday, sug­gesting that he’s ready for Rom­ney even if the former Massa­chusetts governor isn’t quite ready for him. Obama released a television ad set to run in six swing states accusing Romney of standing with “Big Oil.” The ad came hours after the release of a similar campaign from an Obama ally. 
Romney has been ignoring his Republican rivals for sev­eral days and taking it to the Democratic president, whom he accused Monday of “crushing dreams” with a “government­centered society.” 
“He takes his political inspi­ration from the capitals of Eu­rope,” Romney told supporters in Green Bay, Wis., one day be­fore the latest primaries in the GOP fight. “His version of a per­fect world is a big-spending big government.” 
The grinding Republican pri­mary, already 3 months old, has complicated his ability to re­focus his broader organization and resources toward Obama. Aides concede that staff build­ing and fundraising for the fall match-up are lagging. 
Romney’s recent string of high-dollar California fund­raisers was limited to raising money only for the Republican primary contests. Aides are only beginning to take steps to raise cash to use against Obama, who has been aggres­sively fundraising and distrib­uted staff on the ground in al­most every state in the nation. 
The delay has given Obama a massive head start. The dispar­ity is staggering. 
At the end of February, Obama reported $84.7 million in his campaign account com­pared to Romney’s $7.3 million. Obama has more than 530 paid staff compared to roughly 100 for Romney. 
A fading Rick Santorum, also campaigning in Wisconsin on Monday, said that Romney has essentially bought his success by outspending the competi­tion. 
Romney and his allies have spent a combined $53 million on television advertising so far this election cycle compared to just $27 million from his three Republican competitors com­bined, according to data com­piled by the media tracking firm SMG Delta. 
Santorum’s team, having narrowly lost a string of high-profile contests, spent just $9 million. 
“With almost unlimited re­sources, Gov. Romney has not proven to be very effective,” Santorum said Monday as he predicted a possible upset in Wisconsin. “The only way he’s been successful in winning the primaries is by just bludgeon­ing his opponents by an over­whelming money advantage 
— something he’s not going to have in the general election.” 
In the primary race, Romney has a huge advantage in dele­gates. On Monday, The Associ­ated Press count had Romney with exactly half the delegates needed to win the nomination, 572, and twice as many del­egates as Santorum. 
For the fall campaign, Rom­ney’s presidential hopes may rest, at least in part, upon the ability of the Republican Na­tional Committee to give him a running start. The RNC, beset by problems of its own in recent years, says it’s ready to meet the challenge. Yet party offi­cials acknowledge limitations. General election fundraising in particular has suffered without a nominee. 
The RNC last week an­nounced it had filled a “presi­dential trust” with $21 million to spend in coordination with the nominee. But there is no limit on what the committee can raise and spend on its own to support the party’s presiden­tial contender. 
“There are donors that are sitting on the sidelines right now,” said RNC political direc­tor Rick Wiley. 
Romney’s campaign has been anxious to be able to raise money for the party itself when it holds finance events — do­nors can cut checks of up to $30,800 to the party commit­tee. Without the nomination, however, Romney hasn’t been able to ask for that money yet. That’s changing this week, the Romney campaign said Mon­day night, as Romney prepares to begin raising money jointly with the RNC. The Wall Street 
Journal  first  reported  the  
change in strategy.  
Romney  spokeswoman  An­ 

drea Saul said the campaign has been talking to the RNC about preparing to challenge Obama, including joint fund­raising. “Our donors are ready to mobilize for November and understand that, for the Re­publican nominee to be able to compete with the $1 billion Obama machine, they need to get started now,” she said in a statement. 
Complications for the Rom­ney campaign extend beyond fundraising. 
Wiley said the committee’s nationwide network of “victory centers” might not be fully op­erational until August unless a nominee secures the nomina­tion soon. 
“I think you will see as soon as you get a nominee, an accel­erated ramp-up of staff,” Wiley said. “Right now everyone’s out the door by August, but I can see a scenario where everyone was out the door by June or July if we had a nominee in the next 30 days or so.” 

Late last month, the RNC opened general election offices in North Carolina and Virginia and in Florida, a critical swing state where the committee now has 10 offices, according to Wi­ley. And this week offices are set to open in Nevada, Colora­do, New Mexico and Michigan. 
Romney’s campaign, which would assume control of the of­fices should he claim the nomi­nation, has been slow to imple­ment a plan to reach Hispanic voters, outside of a handful of states, such as Florida. The RNC separately is instituting His­panic state directors this week in Florida, North Carolina, Vir­ginia, Colorado, New Mexico and Nevada. 
While the RNC cannot pick sides before a nominee emerges, Romney’s campaign has benefited from a network of informal alliances. Many members of Romney’s senior staff have either worked for, or closely with, the RNC for years. 
Wiley, for example, worked under Romney’s political direc­tor, Rich Beeson, for more than a decade. Beeson was the RNC’s political director four years ago. 
Beeson said that even with­out the RNC’s help, the Romney campaign has built a network of donors, prominent support­ers and voter files that will translate to the general elec­tion. 
“You don’t go into Florida and bank as many early absentee votes and do what we did state­wide without leaving behind a pretty good organization that’s still in place and will be there in a general election,” Beeson said. “Same with Ohio, same with Michigan, same with Colo­rado, with Nevada — just sort of go down the list. There is an infrastructure in place in every one of those states.” 
In some cases, however, the campaign is not as prepared as Beeson would like. 
Romney’s campaign often moved staff from state to state as the primary progressed. Much of Romney’s Florida se­nior team, for example, left the state for Ohio as soon as voting finished — and then moved on yet again from Ohio to Illinois and then to Wisconsin. 
They are eager to expand, however. The campaign has a list of Republican operatives ready to hire as soon as Rom­ney has general election money to pay them. The campaign’s Boston office occupies two floors but is preparing to fill a third. 
In Chicago, Obama’s team has 300 paid staffers already at work inside the president’s re­election headquarters. They’re anticipating a general election against Romney. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, April 3, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Big BlueNation 

Even though it’s April, I still have March Madness, which is strange because I hardly ever follow basket­ball (this coming from the girl who asked her sister-in-law if player fouls went away after 
halftime). I have never filled out a bracket for the madness. That is, until one little team made it all the way to the national champi­onship — the Ken­tucky Wildcats. 



That’s right. I bleed blue and even though the championship game will be over by the time you read this, I cannot thank the Wildcats enough for such a great season, win or lose. 
You see, for some, the teams in last night’s game were just two bracket fillers. For me, the Kentucky Wildcats are my connection to home. As a Ken­tucky girl, I turn on the games when I miss home. It’s so nice to see the arenas filled with blue and white and, occasionally, Ashley Judd. 
Although I can’t be in beautiful Rupp Arena during the season, my family helps me feel like I’m right there in the action. Throughout the games, I receive texts from my brother asking if I saw the previous play or from my mom giving me a score update every two minutes. I wear my UK shirts the day before a big game (my two favorites including the “Fear the Brow” and “We Invented Swag­ger” shirts), and it’s my little tribute to home. 
I love that my friends now know the names Michael Kidd-Gilchrist, Darius Miller, Kyle Wiltjer and (my favorite) Anthony Davis. During the tourna­ment, they’ve put up with my constant talk about the team, my love of Davis and my Twitter updates from Wiltjer (sorry about that guys). Likewise, I’ve put up with the unibrow jokes and have formed my defenses including, “Davis — he will, he will block you” and “No hoop for you.” 
I think Coach Cal is the cutest coach out there, and no matter where I am, I still clap every time I witness a block or an awesome dunk. I cringe when our players don’t get up right away after a fall and I think the “three goggles” are hilarious. I filled out my bracket, saying UK would make it all the way not just because they are ranked No. 1, but because they have the skill to go all the way, and they have fun with the game. 
We may have the Naismith Trophy winner, the defensive player of the year and quite possibly the No. 1 pick for this year’s draft, but we also have heart — a necessity for any champi­ons. 
So for all you Kentucky fans at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, for all you who witnessed the blocks, threw the remote at the TV when we lost in the SEC, picked Kentucky to go all the way to the national championship and bought the T-shirts wondering if any­one on either campus would under­stand them, I salute you. 
For me, Kentucky basketball isn’t just another game — it’s a way of life. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at      chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
How to finish a semester in under a month 
Over the past four years here at Notre Dame, I’ve found myself spread thinly between multiple classes and master­ing none of them. I’d begin semesters compelled to genuinely dive deep into my curricula, but would become Marc Anthony inundated with an Rosa intense workload impossible to Bro Meets champion. We’re World urged to eliminate the distractions of our lives — the likes of socializing, extracurriculars, and the passions that make us who we are — in order to rebalance ourselves around academia. However, the biggest obstacle in the way of genuine learning is simply school itself. 
This semester, I found myself fed up with the typical tempo of an educa­tion system that is far too inefficient. Instead of business as usual, I sought to completely rework how I consume my education, becoming a test dummy in an experiment that would challenge how education is fostered. I believed that I could complete my entire academic semester in less than one month. And I succeeded. 
Here’s how I did it: 
Almost every class I’ve taken has been fundamentally rooted by textbook read­ings. That is, textbook chapters are the foundations of assignments and lesson plans, which then become the underpin­nings of projects, papers and exams. Ipso facto, the textbook defines the class. I broke down all of the deliverables for each of my classes into their overarch­ing categories — reading, assignments, projects, exam prep, etc. — and orga­nized them together by category in order of their due date. 
By prioritizing class deliverables ac­cording to how material is consumed, I could effectively complete a class in less than one week. I attacked each class one at a time, beginning with every reading 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

assignment for that class and working my way to the next category. It would take about a day and a half to finish each category, and under a week to finish an entire semester’s worth of class deliver­ables. Then wash, rinse and repeat for the next classes. 
The benefits of this kind of system are astronomical. By completing assign­ments in order — instead of highly scat­tered and intertwined around unrelated tasks throughout the year — we gain the benefits of contextual recall and focused learning. As most textbook chapters are built off one another, a clean read with­out stagnation makes for a more effective understanding of progressive concepts. Similar assignments call for similar ac­tions, and consolidating them together reduces the total completion time by a major fraction. And instead of quickly forgetting material, this system actually reinforces content throughout each cat­egory, as well within class discussions, where content is no longer freshly new but reiterative. 
It seems like all of this makes sense, but as you probably guessed, its ex­ecution is a nightmare. Classes have definitive due dates for deliverables, and there’s little time to fit a program like this into a normal schedule of classes. To complete a class in less than a week is to operate within a 12-hour workday that is simply impossible to maintain ordinarily. A student must make a major trad­eoff between academic efficiency and punctual participation, and there’s no question that participation factors and submission deadlines dissuade many from even trying something like this. 
So what did I do? I chose the classes with the smallest participation compo­nent attached to the final grade, with the fewest deadlines in the initial month, and with all deliverables and deadlines outlined for the semester. I then spent the first two weeks of school locked away in my room, working from 9 a.m. to 11 p.m. every day for what was the most intensive academic session of my life. In that time, I had managed to complete a total of three classes for the entire semester, a feat that still amazes me. 
After spending those two weeks knocking out half of my semester deliver­ables from sunup to sundown, I returned back to class and organized my assign­ments around class periods. I found that my time wasn’t scattered between three classes a night per usual; instead, I was able to devote my focus to the major projects and class assignments for my remaining classes. I was able to finish the rest of my assignments for the entire semester in less than a month. 
What’s the ultimate takeaway of all of this? While I’m certainly not urging you to commit to this system, what I am suggesting is that we must become better consumers of our own educa­tion. I’ve completed my deliverables and prepared for exams and for the first time in my life, I’m also mastering it all. It’s a win-win scenario in which my schedule and academic enlightenment is infinitely more governable. But this luxury doesn’t come freely. 
We can’t continue to blindly accept rules of a system where courses are engineered irrespective of how we learn. If we wish to continue having faith in the university system, we can’t simply deprioritize everything else important in our lives en lieu of University demands. We must be willing to make tradeoffs and challenge our “that’s the way it is” attitude towards academia. An education in which success comes at the expense of the passions and opportunities in our lives is simply no education at all. 
Marc Anthony Rosa is a senior man­agement entrepreneurship major. He can be reached at mrosa@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I am not sincere, even when I say I am not.” 
Jules Renard French author 


WEEKLY POLL 

Is Haley Scott DeMaria a good choice to be the Commencement speaker? 
Yes — she’ll be inspiring No — she’s too low-profile 

Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Tuesday, April 3, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
All the Girls Around Me 
I’m eating lunch on the outdoor patio at a restaurant on the 3rd Street Prom­enade in Santa Monica, Calif. Hundreds of people are flowing in and out of storefronts, restaurants, theaters and whatnot. A street performer is playing Blake J. a rendition of “Don’t Graham Stop Believing” on what appears to be Erudite a musical saw. It’s as Techno-Lust good a time as any to test the fabled iPhone app “Girls Around Me.” In keeping with its name, the app pools three types of data together: Four­square check-ins, Facebook profiles and GPS-located Google Maps. And it does all of this to show the girls who are around you. 
30 seconds later I’ve downloaded the app and tap to open it. The splash screen is as suspect as the name. It displays several Bond-style, nude silhouettes of women posing like pole dancers in the middle of radar grids. The splash screen disappears and a map loads showing the images of 40 girls in proximity to me. Real people who are just sitting on a predatory map. 
There are plenty of apps using this geo­location technology. Open up Yelp and you’ll be centered in a map that shows all the great places to eat around you. Check in to Foursquare and it’ll do the same. What makes Girls Around Me so different and sinister is that the girls listed have no clue that they might be appearing on the phone of some guy eating lunch a couple of meters away. 
I tap on one girl at random. Her name was Sarah and the app pulls up basic information about her: name, where she is, how long ago she was there and a full screen version of her Facebook profile image. Then at the bottom there’s a big green button labeled “photos and messaging.” As my finger lingers over it, I look around at the street expecting passersby to point their fingers at me and yell, “pervert.” They don’t, so I click it. It links to her public Facebook profile. 
In all of 30 seconds, I learn how old she is (22), where she went to high school (Harvard-Westlake (wow!)), college (Tufts), her favorite book (Self-Reliance), what she’s interested in (men), her brother’s name (Zach). Two more taps and I can access her photos. I then learn how she looks in a bikini (exception­ally athletic). Amazed at how quickly I invaded her privacy and undressed her life and person, I put my phone down and looked away from it. It was a special type of shame. The waiter asks if I’d like an­other Coke. I nod, but my mind is still on poor Sarah. Poor Sarah whose life is an open book. Poor Sarah who is not more than 20 meters away. 
The thing is, Sarah and every other girl who appeared on my screen put that information online. When creating a Facebook profile, why not indicate your favorite book or list your relatives? And what’s the harm in your albums entitled “Summer 2010,” “Summer 2011,” “Spring Break 2012,” etc. After all, Facebook is a place for friends. Foursquare is a useful tool as well. The only people who will check it are your friends and you do so ever want to be the mayor of the Safeway (and so close you are!). Girls Around Me just puts all that information together and the result is exceptionally creepy. They never intended to be on some predator’s radar. 

The Girls Around Me website describes it as “the perfect complement to any pick-up strategy. And with millions of chicks checking in daily, there’s never been a better time to be on the hunt.” So the logical next steps are as follows. I walk down to the store she is at and introduce myself. I could pretend I went to Harvard-Westlake as well, tell her she was a senior when I was a freshman. But the school is a bit too small for that. I could do the same for Tufts. Lead off a conversation about silly school colors and whisk her away with an Emerson quote: “I do not wish to expiate, but to live.” 
But I do none of that, because objectify­ing women with the aid of hyper-person­al technology has never been my fancy. Instead I put my phone away and try very hard to forget Sarah and everything I know about her. And I do. For about two weeks when Girls Around Me exploded in the media. 
I started to talk with people about how they felt they might be violated. The consensus was generally the same. “I didn’t give my information to that app,” they would moan. “But you essentially did,” I inform them. “By letting all your Facebook and Foursquare information be public, there was nothing stopping a company from creating a service that connects one to the other.” They were afraid and threatened because too much data was available — it was as if they had lost control of their own lives when it became accessible to complete strangers lurking nearby. 
Here’s where things broke down. People had expectation of where and how the information they shared was going to be used. And the media channels they shared with provide incentive for people to continuously share. Your Facebook ex­perience is better the more details of your life you give up. Foursquare accumulates value from knowing where you are all the time. A privacy violation doesn’t oc­cur because too much information exists. Rather, it occurs when the right infor­mation goes to the wrong place. To get academic, we follow “context-relative in­formational norms.” The second a norm is broken, chaos and fear ensue. 
Girls Around Me has since been pulled from the Apple App Store. But there is absolutely nothing to stop other apps of a similar nature from appearing, and in six to ten months, there will be new services pulling in even more information than before. Due to the sheer volume of apps developed, there doesn’t exist a good system to check and warn against seem­ingly deviant services. What’s more, Girls Around Me didn’t really even do anything wrong. Let shock and anger follow that comment, but the onus is on the user. I am not the first to say this and I certainly wont be the last. If you are not paying for something, you are not the customer; you are the product being sold. Take caution. Too much is at stake. 
Blake J. Graham is a freshman. He can be reached on Twitter @BlakeGraham or at bgraham2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Dating at Notre Dame: The Remix 
The title of this editorial could be ac­curately described as a misnomer. I have heard from every corner of campus that dating does not occur at Notre Dame. The lack of dating is not just relegated to Notre Dame, but is present on college campuses David Moss across the country. The reasons for this Dr. D @ state of affairs is as the GRC varied as the people you talk with. Some claim that there just isn’t enough time in the week to develop a meaningful relationship, others point to parietals as the source of our consterna­tion and still others claim that the single sex residence hall system is to blame for the poor state of relationships on campus. 
Regardless of what might be the mechanism driving our inability to create an environment where healthy relation­ships can flourish, my conversations with members of this community have con­vinced me that there is a desire to explore something other than the microwave relating that permeates our culture. 
Although many agree that the general state of relationship building on campus is generally unhealthy and inauthentic, in the same breath they acknowledge that “it is the only game in town.” There is a belief that if they do not play this game as de­fined by popular culture and those within the circle of coolness, they will become bystanders and second-class citizens in their own college experience. Given this alternative, some claim that the cur­rent condition is not so bad. After all, the omnipresent hookup does offer some fun and emotional release from the mountain of academic obligations.  Unfortunately, there are no free lunches and frequently those involved pay either a physical or emotional cost; a cost that few are willing to discuss honestly. 
So how do we begin to carve out the time necessary to foster and develop relationships that are affirming, respect­ful and authentic? Foundationally, if we are honest with ourselves, this is what most of us are looking for. First, let’s begin by lowering our expectations of what it means to date someone. Level One Dating (as described by Kerry Cronin when she visited our campus) is an opportunity for you to have a conversation with your date which will do one of two things. At the conclusion of the conversation you will know that a) there may be potential here and you would like to have another con­versation, or b) this was not someone you wish to spend more personal time with. This does not take as much time as you might imagine and this type of intentional dating is just that — intentional. It is not for those who use alcohol as a lubricant to engage others socially. 

In addition, you must own the fact that you find the other person interesting (maybe even attractive) without the aid of beer goggles. You are not just hanging out with a group of friends, but actively engaged in learning about the person you are with. These dates also have a time limit. There should be no five hour marathon conversations on a Level One date. They should last about an hour and no more than 90 minutes. It really should not be that intense and you will have op­portunities for more conversation later.  If you came to Kerry Cronin’s presentation (Notre Dating) you were given a voucher to go on such a date at Starbucks. I am looking forward to talking with some of those students this week about their Level One dating experiences. 
To continue the momentum of this authentic style of interaction, the Gender Relations Center and Student Activities will be engaging students in an old school remix of the date — the picnic. So don’t be surprised when spring time welcomes a new activity on the Quad. We hope you will join us as we redefine social interac­tion with an intentional twist. 
Dr. G. David Moss is the Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs and the Interim Director for the Gender Relations Center. He can be contacted at gmoss@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

New nd.edu sets the bar 
Dear Office of Public Relations, 
Yes, this is most certainly nerdy, but as a Computer Science Major with a strong interest in web technol­ogy and design, I want to commend you for the work on the new nd.edu launched on April 1. This update puts Notre Dame’s public image at the forefront of smart web design. With the continuing trend of webpage ac­cess through a myriad of different devices, a website that adapts its layout based on size is not only brilliant, but also very forward-thinking. 
Notre Dame students who have no idea what I’m say­ing — do this: Go to your web browser, type in nd.edu and make the window as small as you can. Now slowly drag the page bigger. Notice how the layout and content of the page changes dynamically with the size. This means that the same nd.edu homepage will look good anywhere — be it a low-res smartphone screen, your gaming console or an HD display. Now try the same thing with another of your favorite websites. Chances are you won’t get very far before the page looks distort­ed or cluttered. Notre Dame’s Office of Public Relations is setting the bar for content-driven websites every­where, and we should be proud of their work. 
John Kemnetz 
junior Duncan Hall Apr. 2 





Wading through the excessive amount of horrible .lms on Instant Net.ix can be daunting for any subscriber. To 
ease the process, Scene has graciously provided a list of 
the best Net.ix has to offer. 
1. “True Grit” 
This superbly acted remake of the John Wayne classic is de.nitely worth the watch. The Coen brothers' .lm was nomi­nated for 10 Academy Awards and although it didn't end up winning any, the .lm was still very impressive. Jeff Bridges' portrayal of Rooster Cogburn pays homage to John Wayne's character and yet, he makes the role entirely his own. The Coen brothers rarely make a bad movie, and “True Grit” doesn't disappoint. 
2. “Take Me Home Tonight” 
This isn't “The Artist.” It isn't even “Hot Tub Time Machine.” But this tribute to .80s culture is a fun and hilarious — if not very smart — comedy. Topher Grace graduated from MIT and 
now is out of college and not sure what he wants to do with 
his life. He and his friend Dan Fogler embark on a night-long journey of debauchery that leads them all over Los Angeles, helping Grace discover himself in the process. While the plot sounds cliché —and is — it's still a decidedly funny movie. 
3. “Trainspotting” 
Before he made “Slumdog Millionaire” and “127 Hours,” Danny Boyle made a name for himself in Britain with visually intricate .lms that captured the tragedy and, often, the maj­esty of nitty gritty .90s life. Following the exploits of a group of aimless drug addicts in Edinburgh, “Trainspotting” stars such future successes as Ewan McGregor (“Moulin Rouge!”), Johnny Lee Miller (“Dexter”), Robert Carlyle (“Once Upon a Time”) and Kelly Macdonald (“Boardwalk Empire”). The .lm is equally funny and serious, uplifting and depressing, heavy and light-hearted, but always features Boyle's eye for captur­ing the nuances of life through visual style. 
4. “Waiting for .Superman'” 
This documentary about the state of the education system in America is a moving story outlining the gaps students face and improvements that need to be made. Masterfully shot, produced and edited, the .lm focuses its attention all over the United States. It follows students in lotteries for charter schools in Los Angeles and New York City, Interviewing big names like Michelle Rhee, former chancellor of the D.C. public school district, and Geoffrey Canada, an education reformer in Harlem, N.Y. The .lm provides an inside look at the failures of the American public education system, meant to energize and accelerate the change needed. 
5. “Never Say Never” 
Net.ix has perfect timing when selecting and submitting their new movie arrivals to their website, and this week's picks are no exception. With his new single “Boyfriend” just out, what better movie to watch than Justin Bieber's “Never Say Never” documentary? The .lm recounts his story and path to stardom while listening and watching him perform some of his most popular hits in his sold-out concert in Madi­son Square Garden. For all of you Bieber fans, this is a must see. 

Tuesday, April 3, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

By BRENNA WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 

I spend holidays with my boyfriend’s family and I feel the need to make a peace offering or prove that I can cook whenever I see his mother, a plight that most significant others can empathize with. This Easter, I’m coming armed with a secret weapon: baked goods. With a recipe that’s easy and delicious, “Toffee-Like Bars” are sure to please everyone from picky in-law-types to the confection connoisseurs we call five year old cousins. 
When I say I want recipe ideas, I’m being serious. This week’s idea came from a professor’s family recipe, and I am so glad that I solicited it. It’s hard to go wrong with butter, brown sugar and chocolate, so I thor­oughly recommend these for a family-tested and approved treat. 
Ingredients: 
1 cup butter, softened 1 cup brown sugar 1 cup flour 1 egg yolk 

Tip: Egg whites are an acceptable substitute 
12 oz bag of chocolate or butterscotch chips 
Tip: Use half of each and get the best of both worlds 
1/2 cup of chopped nuts 

Tip: I used walnuts, but you can use whatever is available/your favorite 
Instructions: 

1.
 Preheat the oven to 300 degrees Fahrenheit. Combine butter, brown sugar, flour, and egg in a bowl. Spread the resulting dough in a 13x9 pan. 

2.
 Bake at 300° for 25-30 minutes or until light brown and set. 

3. 
Take the pan out of oven, and sprinkle chips on top. Return to the oven for two to three minutes, or until chips are melted. 


Tip: If you decide to use both butterscotch and chocolate chips, put the butterscotch on first and melt those alone for a couple of minutes. Then add chocolate and continue as instructed – but­terscotch chips take longer to melt than chocolate 
4. Remove the pan from the oven and use a rubber spatula or knife to spread the chips. Sprinkle nuts on top and cut into squares. 
Tip: The professor who gave me the recipe advised me to put nuts on half and leave the rest plain. It makes them delectable to people who aren’t crazy about nuts 
I will admit, somehow I have never had real toffee in my life, but I got a good idea about what I am missing out on after making this recipe. I would like to think that my boyfriend’s mother is going to be quiet this Easter because she likes me, but I will secretly know it’s because she’s savoring this delicious treat. I’ll take whatever help I can get. 
Thank you to Professor Dreyer in FTT for this recipe! To everyone reading, I’m always willing to try to do justice to your favorite treat, so send me my next challenge! 

Contact Brenna Williams at bwillia9@nd.edu 
By ALEX KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 
Andrew Bird has pegged himself as one of the apologist indie singer-songwriters of our generation. With his sixth and latest solo studio LP “Break It Yourself,” he delves into social, religious and geopolitical is­sues, often all in the same song. 
Bird gives the album open­er “Desperation Breeds...” a haunting sound as he points towards the problem of rapidly decreasing bee populations. In “Danse Caribe,” he mixes an unexpected Afro-Caribbean beat with traditional fiddling and the token whistling for which he is best known, as he sings “Then one day you’d had it / Exiled your closest advi­sors.” 
Bird appears to play outside of his comfort zone on lead single “Eyeoneye,” which has a straightforward indie rock sound but does not offer much conceptually. Granted, the single does contain a fake pal­indrome, reminiscent of “Fake Palindromes” from his third al­bum “Andrew Bird & The Mys­terious Production of Eggs.” 
He delves into the idea of the fragility of truth and memory in the sleepy piece “Lazy Pro­jector” as he whistles through the lyrics, “And it’s all in the hands of a lazy projector / That forgetting, embellishing, lying machine.” “Near Death Expe­rience Experience” both rumi­nates on the fragility of life and celebrates its value (“And we’ll dance like cancer survivors / Like we’re grateful simply to be alive”) over instrumentals reminiscent of Bird’s early al­bums. 

Solo act and fellow singer-songwriter St. Vincent ac­companies Bird in a duet on “Lusitania,” which responds to Bird’s musings on memory in “Lazy Projector” while also touching on political events from World War I and the Span-ish-American War. He sings, “We don’t study these wars no more.” “Sifters” plays like a lullaby with Bird’s wistful yet dynamic vocals, accompanied by woodblock and violin as he sings, “Sound is a wave like a wave on the ocean / Moon plays the ocean like a violin.” 
“Hole in the Ocean Floor,” if nothing else, is certainly the longest track on the LP at a solid eight minutes. Bird of­fers a ma­
jestically laye re d “Break It Yourself” 
sound-
By Andrew Bird 

scape of whis­tling and 
Label: Mom+Pop

looped 
Best Tracks: “Danse Caribe,” “Eyeoneye,” “Near Death

violi ns in this Experience Experience” piece and blends in only a few scattered words through­out, “I woke with a start / Crying bullets, beating heart / To hear all God’s crea­tures / Roaring again.” 

Bird successfully keeps “Break It Yourself” cohesive by threading it all together with short transition pieces like “Polynation” and “Behind the Barn.” Overall, the album ex­hibits Bird’s exceptional violin skills and typical folksy sound while drawing influence from contemporary folk acts like Fleet Foxes and Beirut. 
That being said, unlike Bird’s other releases, there are no standout tracks on the LP, ones that will be remembered on their own merits. “Break It Yourself” flows together well as a whole concept album but does not present any clear fa­vorites for Andrew Bird fans. 
Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

A look at baseball’s unwritten standards 
All I can imagine is a dark room filled with shadowed figures sipping whiskey on the rocks. They trade quips and threatening stares. They each wear power suits with dap­per ties. They are respected, feared, wise. They are gentle­men and scholars and … base­ball players. 
Okay, so maybe that isn’t ex­actly how baseball’s unwritten rules were decided upon. Odds are they were de­cided by a handshake between captains after a fist­fight. Okay, so maybe that isn’t it either, give me a break. 
No matter how these rules were decided, there is no doubting their existence even without tangible evidence in a rulebook. 
Despite the existence of these guidelines in America’s pastime, it seems like the past year has involved more and more code-breaking plays. 
There was Angels shortstop Erick Aybar bunting in the eighth inning in an effort to break up Ti­gers pitcher Justin tion. 


Just after the ball plunked Tulowitzki, Jimenez stepped off the mound towards him. It was almost instantly. His pompous attitude as he ran toward Tulowitzki just begged for someone to return what he had coming towards him. 
He claimed the pitch just got away from him. He did not mean to hit Tulowitzki — it just happened. I believe that as much as I believe that Santa and the Easter Bunny ride their unicorns to their money trees where the Tooth Fairy and a centaur greet them. So, yeah, I don’t believe him. 
For his efforts, Jimenez has been suspended for five games. 
Written in the players’ code is a section about plunking opposing batters. Do it in the ribs. Do it in the back. Let him take his base and move on. Expect the same from the op­ponent. You’re not supposed to walk demonstratively towards home plate. 
So the question is: why do these rules exist and why are they so religiously followed 
— and continuously ridiculed when they are broken? 
Maybe it all boils back down to the dark room with the shadowed men. Or the fistfight-following handshake between captains. It’s all about respect. 
This isn’t football where 

players hit after the whistle and aim to injure. This isn’t hockey 
Verlander’s So the question is: why where a skir­no-hit bid in mish breaks 
do these rules exist 
August. Ver-out after 
and why are they so 
lander said every held 
religiously followed — and 
he was sur-puck around 
continuously ridiculed 
prised by the the net. 
when they are broken? 
attempt and While 
called the play “bush league.” 
Many argued whether Mar­lins outfielder Scott Cousins violated the players’ code when he ended Giants catcher Buster Posey’s season after barreling over him in a play at the plate a year ago. 
Most recently, Indians pitch­er Ubaldo Jimenez beaned former teammate and Rock­ies shortstop Troy Tulowitzki with a high and tight pitch that prompted tempers to flare and benches to empty — in spring training. Colorado manager Jim Tracy called the play “a gutless act” and said he lost all respect he had for the former 20-game winner. 
Even more gutless than Jimenez’s action was his reac­those sports do have un­written rules 

of their own, baseball’s take a more prominent position in their sport. They have manag­ers erupt over their break­ing. They have players band together. They have columnists writing about them. They are just as integral to the sport as a ball and a bat are. 
So let’s not turn on the light in the dark room. Let’s keep the origins of the rules hidden. 
So long as they are followed. 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu                          
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Jimenez to appeal suspension 

Associated Press 
GOODYEAR, Ariz. —  Cleve­land Indians pitcher Ubal­do Jimenez was suspended for five games and fined by Major League Baseball on Monday for intentionally throwing at Colorado’s Troy Tulowitzki during a spring training game. 
Jimenez will serve his suspension during the first five games of the season unless he asks the players’ association to ap ­peal the decision by MLB senior vice president Joe Garagiola Jr. 
Indians manager Manny Acta expects an appeal. 
“He’s starting the second game of the season,” Acta said. “It’s disappointing, but I’m not surprised.” 
Before the penalty was announced, Jimenez said he wasn’t going to apolo ­gize to Tulowitzki after hitting his former Rockies teammate on the left el­bow Sunday. 
Jimenez didn’t think he should be suspended for drilling the star shortstop and said his primary con­cern is being ready for the season. 
“Players are hit by pitch­es every day,” Jimenez said. “With a guy like him, you have to go inside. I can’t get the ball to go where I want every time.” 
Jimenez said he would not reach out to Tulowit­zki. Earlier this spring, Jimenez revealed he was unhappy in Colorado be ­fore being traded to Cleve ­land last July. Tulowitzki later was quoted as saying the former All-Star should get over it. 
“He was calling me names,” Jimenez said. “I al­ready said I didn’t want to hit him. I had five walks. It’s not the first time some­body (was) hit.” 
Both benches emptied Sunday, but no punches were thrown. Tulowitzki went to a hospital for X-rays, which were negative. 
“He walked five guys. Where do you draw the line? Last year, we had guys hit. No suspensions,” Acta said. “I think it is time everybody stops re­lying on what guys write in the newspaper. It is too bad they get swayed by the press.” 
Fans booed Jimenez dur­ing his five-inning stint and ballpark officials pro ­vided extra security for him after he left the game. There were no reported in­cidents. 
Rockies manager Jim Tracy termed it the most gutless act he had seen in 35 years in the game and called for a suspension. 
“I can’t control what peo­ple say,” Jimenez said. “Yes, I was surprised he said that. But that’s OK.” 
Commissioner Bud Selig attended the game. 
“Guys do not play differ­ent if the Commissioner is at the game,” Acta said. “The majority of the guys didn’t even know he was there.” 
Two years ago, Jimenez was 15-1 for the Rockies at the All-Star break and was the NL starter for the Midsummer Classic. He has gone 14 -20 since. He was not sharp this spring, going 1-4 with a 7.43 ERA. In seven Cactus League starts, he had as many walks as strikeouts, 15, and allowed 30 hits in 23 innings. 
After a bad outing against Cincinnati on March 17, Acta said, “It’s time to get it in gear,” about Jimenez, whose velocity was lagging. 
Jimenez’s fastball was clocked at 95 mph in his next start against San Diego, but his overall performance has not ap ­proached what the Indians expected when they traded four minor league pros­pects, including two first-round draft picks, for the 28-year-old right-hander. 
“I feel good. I’m ready to pitch,” Jimenez said. “Hope­fully, I can get off to a good start.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

This Day in History Jesse James, one of America’s U.S. President Harry S. Truman At his small wilderness cabin 
FOR RENT PERSONAL 
most notorious outlaws, is shot to signs into law the Foreign near Lincoln, Montana, Theodore 
On this day in 1860, the first death by Robert Ford, a member Assistance Act, commonly known John Kaczynski is arrested by FBI 
Pony Express mail, traveling of his gang who hoped to collect as the Marshall Plan. Named after agents and accused of being the 
House for rent. GREAT LOCATION UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t by horse and rider relay teams, the bounty on Jesse’s head. U.S. Secretary of State George C. Unabomber, the elusive terrorist 
- close to campus. 3BR $600 per go it alone. Notre Dame has many simultaneously leaves St. Joseph, Marshall, the program channeled blamed for 16 mail bombs that bedroom. Utilities included. Call resources in place to assist you. Missouri, and Sacramento, more than $13 billion in aid to killed three people and injured 23 574-272-2940 If you or someone you love needs California. Ten days later, on April Europe between 1948 and 1951. during an 18-year period. 
confidential support or assistance, 13, the westbound rider and mail The Rebel capital of Richmond, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at packet completed the 1,800-mile Virginia, falls to the Union, the 1-7819. For more information, journey and arrived in Sacramento, most significant sign that the visit ND’s website at: http:// setting a new standard for speedy Confederacy is nearing its final pregnancysupport@nd.edu mail delivery. days. 
Cycling 
continued from page 14 
onds. On Sunday, wide and fast roads inhibited breakaway attempts for the first 30 min­utes of the criterium, with rid­ers from most schools attempt­ing to lose the field. Finally, a group of five took to a 15-sec­ond gap and, with the race go­ing down the road, Magro again found himself crossing a gap to the leaders alone. After making contact, the breakaway began to put significant time into the field, and once joined by anoth­er five Marian and Lindenwood riders, the contest was over. Nearly lapping the field, Magro took another top-10 finish while O’Donnell scored valuable na­tionals qualifying points with a pack finish. 
Only two riders, sophomore August Kunkel and junior Rob Piscatelli, represented the Irish in the Men’s D category for the weekend. Kunkel was able to navigate an inexperienced field to secure a top-10 finish in both the road race and the criteri­um. He finished strong in the criterium even though he punc­tured his front tire during the last lap. 
After the weekend’s results, Notre Dame held steady to the fifth place conference ranking and moved closer to Purdue in the race for top club program in the Midwest. Magro increased his lead in the Men’s Division II Individual standings. 
Ultimate women’s team 
Notre Dame traveled to Na­perville, Ill., to compete in the Chicago Invite last weekend. 
The A squad opened the tour­nament Saturday against rival Indiana. The women came out strong in the cold temperature and won the game 13-6.  Soph­omore Eliza Herrero caught nearly every disk thrown in her vicinity. The Irish went on to face a tough game against Il­linois. After going down a few points in the beginning, the women eventually brought the game back to 8-9. However, Il­linois used greater consistency to win 10-8.
 Notre Dame came out ex­tremely hard in its third game against Northwestern, bidding on defense and swinging the disk on offense to take a 7-2 halftime lead. Northwestern fought back, however, and the score became tied at 11-11. Ju­nior Kelsey Taylor made great cuts while sophomore Kelsey Fink read the disk with ease in the end zone. Northwestern took the win 12-11 after an ar­duous last point. 
In their final game of the day, fatigue got the best of the Irish and they fell to Marquette 9-8. Despite their losses, the women came away with valuable infor­mation regarding their future regional competition and played hard throughout the tough matches. 
On Sunday, the team found itself in the ninth-place bracket and was determined to claim victory. In their first match against Winona State, the Irish played efficiently to win 13­
1. Junior Allie Hawkins made great break cuts while sopho­more Mara Stolee was aggres­sive on defense. The Irish then won games against Dayton and Truman State, 13-5 and 11-3, respectively. Many of the girls fought through tough injuries to aid the team, including senior captain Ashley Satterlee. In the ninth place game, the women came out unfocused and initial­ly went down 4-0. However, they regained composure and played smartly to defeat Ohio 13-7. Se­nior captain Vicke Hadlock dis­played great leadership to help the team get back into the game while junior Kelly Taylor main­tained patience to make easy throws into the end zone. De­spite their losses on Saturday, the women came away with a perfect Sunday record to take ninth out of 40 teams at the in­vitational. 
The B squad played games against Northwestern B, West­ern Kentucky and Beloit on Sat­urday. The women came out strong against a newly-formed Northwestern B squad, losing by a mere point, 10-9. Junior cap­tain Elizabeth Villafuerte sent beautiful hucks long while soph­omore Mary Kate Scavo nearly perfected her hammer throws. Although the women did not see any more wins on Saturday, they showcased great spirit and improvement. On Sunday, the women produced excellent play. They won their opener against Western Kentucky 10-8, fol­lowed by a win against Illinois B 9-7. Sophomore Kim Kowal­ski made great throws and long cuts while junior captain Devlin Lynch made impressive plays on defense. The B team eventually placed 28th within the field of 40 and saw a string of wins that strengthened its confidence. 
Ultimate men’s team 
Both the Notre Dame A and B teams travelled to Naperville, Ill., to compete in the Chicago Invite, the largest ultimate tournament in the country this season. Playing some of the best competition in the Midwest, the A team finished fourth in the 64-team field, while the B team finished 50th. 
Notre Dame A started the tournament against No. 2 over­all seed Michigan. Despite jumping out to an early lead and holding it for much of the game, the Irish were unable to fin­ish the job and fell 14-12 to the Wolverines. Another close game against Penn State followed, but this time Notre Dame finished strongly to win 13-11. Next up, the Irish bested Northwestern 13-8 to finish second in the pool and set up a game against Pur­due. 
The Irish used a quick start to put the game out of reach ear­ly.  Despite a few late points by Purdue, Notre Dame won eas­ily 13-7 to put the team in the quarterfinals Sunday morning. After falling at this round their previous three tournaments, Notre Dame looked to finally advance past the quarterfinals. After a brief lightning delay, the game began with the Irish fall­ing behind early to Tennessee. A late run to tie the game at 16 set up a double game point. Af­ter a couple turnovers by both sides, senior Mike DellaPenna connected with fellow senior Will Cernanec in the end zone to give ND the 17-16 win and a trip to the semis. Juniors Dan Bolivar, Zack Woodruff, Jona­than Koch and Charlie Bowen all made great plays throughout the game to set up the victory. The Irish then fell to eventual champion Iowa in the semifi­nal to finish the tournament. Seniors Adam Barsella, Sean Jackson and Thomas Kenealy all played well the entire week­end, as well as freshman Jason Wassel, Kyle Hill and Erich Ker-ekes. 
The B squad won games against Michigan State B, Washington University B, and St. Mary’s of Minnesota on the weekend to finish with a 3-5 re­cord at the tournament. Impres­sive performances on the week­end came from juniors Andrew Romero and Nick Ferruolo, sophomores Jordan Lange and Jack Moore and freshmen Ste­ven Zurawski, Peter Hall, Tim Hosty and Keith Podgorski. 
The B team will be back in ac­tion at the Eastern Great Lakes Developmental conference championships in two weeks, while the A Team will compete at the East Plains conference championship at home April 14 and 15, with a conference championship and a bid to re­gionals on the line. 
Men’s Rowing 
This weekend, the Irish split up, with the first varsity and first novice boats traveling to San Diego for the Crew Classic and the rest of the team travel­ing north to the Michigan In­vite. The team rowed to some solid results — the best in club history — but overall was left disappointed. 
The first varsity eight cruised to a victory in the heats Satur­day, blasting through the field during the body of the race af­ter a slow start, earning a spot in the finals and a good lane. However, the finals did not go as planned. Shortly after a solid start, an equipment failure cost the Irish a boat length on the field and they found themselves down by open water about 300 meters into the race. The boat quickly regained its rhythm and began moving up the field, eventually gaining the lead by a couple of seats with about 300 meters left. The tremen­dous comeback left the rowers without the gas for a sprint and Grand Valley regained the lead, winning by three or four seats. 
The novice eight had a rough start in their heat, but like the varsity gradually moved up on the field and finished with an impressive sprint, taking fourth and earning a spot in the petite finals. In their final, the novice rowers started strong and were in a strong position, but couldn’t pull off a similar sprint and took third in the petite finals. 
In Michigan, the second nov­ice boat showed off its speed by dominating Michigan in all three pieces. The second and third varsity boats and the novice four fell to Michi­gan and Grand Valley as the Irish rowed against the top club programs of the country. Notre Dame returns to the wa­ter April 21 in Oak Ridge, Tenn., for the SIRA regatta looking to continue to build boat speed and improve on these results. 


NFL 

Nike revamps uniforms, moving to change NFL 
PORTLAND, Ore. — Back in 1998, Oregon and Nike teamed together to tinker with the Ducks’ traditional uniforms. Out went emerald green and lemon yellow, in came spruce, mallard and a little something called “lightning.” 
That was just the start. The gaudy uniform craze that began with Nike co-founder Phil Knight’s alma mater has gripped every school from Maryland to Boise State, hitting Notre Dame and Michigan along the way. 
Is the NFL next? 
Nike is taking over the pros from Reebok with a gala uniform unveiling set for Tuesday in New York City. The design details are a guarded secret at the Beaverton-based shoe and apparel maker, but some images — there’s no way to know if they’re real or fake — have circulated on the internet. 
The biggest changes will be the performance aspect of the uni­forms, newer lightweight fabrics, a sleek silhouette, but a few teams could get a Cinderella treatment. 
Nike isn’t commenting until the big reveal. 
“I think that what we’ll see is a subtle homage to the collegiate revolution in uniform design, but in the framework of arguably the most successful sports franchise there is, the NFL, which is more steeped in tradition that the col­lege landscape was when Nike re­ally got into it with Oregon,” said Paul Swangard, managing direc­tor of the university’s Warsaw Sports Marketing Center. 
The Ducks signed their con­tract with Nike in 1996. After the first major makeover in 1998, the school introduced the Nike-de­signed “O” logo in 2002. 
In 2003’s opener against Mis­sissippi State, the Ducks wore neon yellow from helmet to shoe, which some dubbed the “Human Highlighter.” In 2006, Oregon in­troduced black uniforms, while “wings” were incorporated to jer­seys in more recent years in a nod to the school’s mascot. 
“We aren’t like USC or Notre Dame or Penn State or Alabama, which are really traditional,” said Jim Bartko, who holds the title of executive senior associate athlet­ics director at Oregon and has close ties to Knight. “Our philoso­phy was that every four years we were going to change, so that ev­ery player that comes into Oregon in the football program will have a chance to be a part of a design.” 
Today Oregon has five differ­ent helmets, seven jerseys and six pants for 210 possible uniform combinations, enough to carry them through 17-plus seasons, mi­nus bowl games, which usually get new garb. 

CLUB SPORTS 

Men’s water polo goes undefeated in Alumni tourney 
Member of Equestrian team heads to national finals; women’s rugby dominates in March Madness 
Special to The Observer nigan, Claire Lupo and Claire successful kick-after points for Snitzer won the C individual pointing road race, the B team 
Donavan, sophomore Sarah both, the game was tied in a time trial by over 1:30 with was aggressive in Sunday’s cri-
In a hard-fought game to start Eide, junior Annie Murphy and vicious battle through the end. a time that was 11th fastest terium winning multiple prime the 2012 Alumni Tournament, senior Nathaniel Walden. The overtime was a five-minute of any category that day.  On point sprints. Halfway through the Irish pulled out a 10-9 vic-sudden death period. A break-Sunday, Notre Dame’s season-the event, John Pratt rode him­tory against Saint Louis, who Women’s Rugby away run by Okonta won the long stranglehold on the C field self into the winning break and finished 13th at the National Notre Dame travelled to game for the Irish. The Irish continued. Pratt completed with Lee and Hurley block-Collegiate Club Championships. Wayne, Neb., to compete in the scored the try for a final score the weekend sweep, propelled ing the chasing field there was The Billikens started the game March Madness tournament, of 12-7 to qualify for the cham-by the work of his teammates. never any doubt Notre Dame out aggressively and took an one of the largest spring rugby pionship game. After many failed attempts at was picking up another victory. early lead against the Irish.  But tournaments in the country. The championship game was breakaways throughout the John Pratt easily sprinted out of with timely shooting from ju-Notre Dame arrived to great against Northern Iowa, the course of the race, the peloton the break for the win while Lee nior Chris Jennis and freshman fanfare, finding out the games Midwest’s No. 1 team. North-was intact for a field sprint. led out Hurley for sixth place. Dolff Hanke, the Irish pulled had been advertised across the ern Iowa, fresh after not play-Taking third wheel before the Coming in over 18 minutes ahead. At the end of the con-town. The Irish arrived on the ing earlier in the day, came out final two turns, Pratt shot out ahead of the main field, a break-test, great defense provided by dust-covered rugby grounds strong and lived up to its No. 1 of the pack to win the race and away containing Notre Dame sophomore Jack Turek and se-early on Saturday to join the ranking. The Irish pushed back get his second win in two days. junior Joe Magro led the men’s nior Dan Geisman proved to be hundreds of other rugby players hard but were overwhelmed, Snitzer took third and Tilmans A race from nearly start to fin-the difference. competing on the five different dropping a 56-0 game. fourth, again putting three ND ish. As early attacks spread 
In the next match, where the fields. riders in the top five. To date, riders thin across the central Irish faced some of the most Notre Dame’s first game was Cycling the C squadron has won three Michigan countryside, dirt flew prolific players in recent Notre against Oklahoma. Coming out The men’s C road race at straight mass start races in a as Marian and Lindenwood sent Dame history, the team took on strong, the Irish scored numer-Michigan State kicked off the row, as well as notching seven waves of riders off the front of an Irish alumni team composed ous tries against the Sooners. festivities Saturday morning. more podium finishes. the peloton. Riding well in his of very talented players.  Nev-Tries were made by sophomore Featuring five miles of dirt With graduate student An-first A race, O’Donnell kept er once leading in regulation, Clare Robinson, junior Ash-roads each lap, Michigan State’s drew O’Donnell moving up to Magro out of trouble on dirt the team tied up the contest ley Okonta, freshman Shannon European-inspired course pre-the big show, the men’s B squad sections and in contact with the at 13 with 40 seconds remain-Kenny and sophomore Eliza-sented unique challenges to was down a man but still looked leaders. Ten miles into the race, ing in the game.  After miss-beth Peterson, followed by four riders all day long. After an to continue its season-long a group containing four Marian ing a last-second attempt, the successful point-after kicks by uneventful first lap, Irish ju-dominance. In the road race, a riders, three Lindenwood rid-team entered a shootout with freshman Claire Kozlowski. nior David Pratt, sophomore three man breakaway quickly ers, and one Purdue rider final-the alumni.  After both teams With seven minutes left in the Luke Tilmans and freshman went up the road and, rather ly broke free of the field. went four-for-five on their first second half, the referee consult-Jim Snitzer hit the dirt section than giving Notre Dame the op-With an enormous kick, Magro five shots, the contest entered ed team captains about a mercy hard, hoping to shed down the portunity to win another race, soloed across the gap and the another round of five shootout ruling, but the Sooners refused size of the field. They formed a the peloton was content to let breakaway quickly pulled over shots.  Finally, on the final at-to give up time playing against break of 12 going into the final the move go, despite the best five minutes clear. Outgunned tempt by the alumni, junior the Irish, losing 33-0. lap and gapped four more rid-efforts of freshman John Pratt. at the finish, Magro tried to slip goalie Tate Kernell blocked Notre Dame’s second game ers before the final mile. The C Senior Nate Lee led out junior away on the left 300m from the the shot and won the contest of the tournament was against leadout train allowed Pratt to Brian Hurley for the field sprint line, but was caught 60m from for the Irish. Defensive play by host Wayne State. The game dominate the sprint finish by and they took two of the top 10 the finish and held on for eighth freshman Kevin Balhoff was began and no substantial gains several meters and take Notre spots. place. Showing his time trial-key in keeping the contest close were made on either side.  Near Dame’s first C road race victory In the Time Trial, the B squad ing strength, O’Donnell placed enough for the Irish to be able the end of the first half, as of the season. Snitzer followed shook off its tired legs from third in the individual time trial to tie the game in regulation. Wayne State began approach-in third and Tilmans crossed working in the road race, with Saturday afternoon, beating 
Coming back after a hard-ing the try zone, Notre Dame the line fifth. Freshman Mike Lee taking first and John Pratt multiple professional riders and fought victory the night before, maneuvered the ball out and Chifala finished comfortably in and Hurley finishing second and only missing the win by 20 sec the Irish met the Fighting Scots, ended the half with no scores a small chase group behind the fourth, respectively. Looking to the third place team at Division on either side. leaders. snag another win after a disap-see CYCLING/page 13 III club nationals. Never really As Notre Dame took the field being challenged by the oppo-for the second half, constant nent, the team dominated most contact and a Wayne State try aspects of the game in a 10-6 forced the Irish to not give up. win.  Great defensive play by ju-Okonta then made a break and nior Rob Ray and offensive play ran the length of the field, dodg­by Hanke led the Irish. ing several Wayne State defend-
After a grueling weekend of ers, to score the first Irish try. matches, the Irish finished the Kozlowki followed with a beau-weekend 4-0 with a 8-6 win tiful point-after kick to tie the against ninth-ranked Michigan. score.  Wayne State scored their Timely shooting at the end of second try at the end of the the game by Turek sealed the game to win 10-7. victory in the final minutes.  The Irish faced Mankato for 
their third game of the day. Af-Equestrian ter two grueling games and one 
After qualifying at the re-loss, the Irish came back with a gional finals in March, four vengeance. The first half ended members of Notre Dame/Saint 0-0, with both teams fighting Mary’s travelled down to Mar-to continue on in the bracket. ion, Ind., for the competitive The Irish came back from half-zone finals last Sunday. Junior time with a big push for the first Mia Genereux started the day score of the game after having in the open fences class, laying the ball held up in the end zone down a lovely course to finish three times. Kozlowski followed in sixth place, with sophomore with a successful point-after. Katie Walsh following closely in Mankato pushed back with a eighth. score, but missed the kick. The 
In the flat class portion of the Irish then put all their effort day, sophomore Steph Near-into defense to prevent Mankato hos executed a beautiful ride from another score and won 7-5. to finish with third place hon-The Irish ended Saturday with ors in intermediate flat. Walsh a special Palm Sunday Mass at also placed a respectable ninth the local Catholic church. The in the open flat class. To wrap pastor held a special Mass with up the day, Walsh took third in just the rugby team and a few the Cacchione Cup class, a com-parishioners. Freshman Colleen bined fences and flat class at the Tigani and senior Erin Connor open level. Walsh will continue were Eucharistic Ministers and on to the national finals in Ra-other teammates participated leigh, N.C., in May to compete in the Passion reading. The in the individual Cacchione Cup priest concluded the Mass by championship.  encouraging the team to attend 
as many Holy Week services as Sailing possible and then commented 
This weekend, Notre Dame on how proud he was to tell all traveled to Ann Arbor, Mich., the other priests that he said for the Big Ten Team Race. In Mass for the Irish. light and challenging condi-On Sunday, Notre Dame re­tions, the team placed second turned to play its final qualify-out of six teams. Sailing for the ing game against Iowa State. Irish were freshmen Mike Fla-With tries for both teams and 

ND SOFTBALL 

Maldonado leads underclassmen on and off the field 
By ERNST CLEOFE mentality and playing style teammates, as well. Sports Writer as part of her success as a “I use my confidence and 
leader. my demeanor on the field to 

Senior outfielder Alexa Mal-“Alexa is definitely a lead-guide them and make them donado hopes her career can er. She does a great job being look up to me,” Maldonado begin just how it started: with a captain. A lot of it [is be-said, “I lead by example, a Big East championship. cause] she has come very far mostly.” 
Maldonado, the team’s cap-in her mentality. She’s been On top of the growth during tain, was able to lead her freshman year, Maldona­not the same the team in do experienced one of her top leader she all aspects,” moments in softball during is now when Ganeff said. her rookie campaign when she started “She always the Irish won the Big East her career. kind of leads championship. In her final 
“I use my confidence and 
As a highly-by example year, she’s looking for the op-
my demeanor on the field 
rated player with her play, portunity to help bring back coming out of to guide them and make and now she that feeling. Short Hills, them look up to me.” can lead with “Winning [the] Big East N.J., she had her words [championship] my freshman experience as Alexa Maldonado and people year was my favorite moment a four-year follow her so far,” Maldonado said. “It 
senior 
letter winner because she was an awesome team win and a two-does the right and it was really exciting time team thing consis-once that last out was made captain in tently on and on the field, sprinting in from high school. off the field.” the outfield and jumping in 
The college In line with with your team.” level, however, is a completely Ganeff’s perspective, Maldo-The team has a long way different challenge. nado looks to lead with her to go to win the Big East and 
Maldonado had success ear-performance make the ly as a freshman, but there on the field. national was still room to grow. Irish After her sec-t ou r n a ­assistant coach Kris Ganeff ond consecu-ment, but said the growth came quickly. tive first team Maldonado 
“I just want to do better 

“I would definitely say,… all-Big East is aiming her game has always been performance than I have in previous high. at the top. She’s always been last season, years. Everything I’ve “I just able to play at 100 percent. she is again gotten in previous years want to do She doesn’t know any other performing should be expected.” better than I level,” Ganeff said. “What she well on the have in pre­has done over the four years field. Maldo-vious years. 
Alexa Maldonado 

is her mental side of the game nado is lead-Everything 
senior 

has really come along. As a ing the team in I’ve got-freshman, you saw her go on-base per-ten in the and hopefully the World Se-winning streak. from a freshman to a senior centage, while past years ries.” The Irish hope to keep con-mentality wise and that was a second in bat-should be In order to make a serious tinue their hot-streak when huge growth for her.” ting average expected,” run at the NCAA tournament, they host Northwestern on 
That growth has helped and total hits. Maldonado Maldonado and the Irish will Wednesday. her become the leader that Her success has not only said. “I want to be the best I have to continue the level of the team looks to for support. provided tangible results, but can for this team and hope-play they’ve established dur-Contact Ernst Cleofe at Ganeff points to Maldonado’s has set an example for her fully lead them to regionals ing their current six-game ecleofe@nd.edu 


MLB 

Greinke flops in final game against White Sox 
Associated Press also unconcerned. 
“He’s been so lights out in the 

GLENDALE, Ariz. — Zack Gre-spring, let’s get this one out of the inke was hoping to end his spring way and he’ll get back on track training with a strong outing. It and do what he’s been doing,” didn’t happen. Roenicke said. 
Greinke surrendered six runs White Sox starter Gavin Floyd 
— five earned — over three in-allowed four runs in 4 2-3 innings nings in his final spring start in Chicago’s final spring game Monday at Camelback Ranch, in Arizona before Opening Day. but the Milwaukee Brewers still Floyd gave up seven hits, struck walked away with 13-7 win over out four and walked two. the Chicago White Sox. Dayan Viciedo hit a solo homer 
Greinke was left shaking his off Greinke for his second long head after the right-hander gave ball in as many days for Chicago. up five hits, struck out two and Brooks Conrad hit a solo home walked three. run for Milwaukee off Floyd — his 
“It was such a mess you can’t fourth homer of the spring. really think about it too much,” Floyd’s problem inning was the he said. “It felt like not a baseball second, when he allowed three game really going on out there.” runs. 
Greinke, who coming in had “The second inning, I got in the allowed only two earned runs in stretch and started rushing a little 19 1-3 innings this spring, down-bit, got behind a lot of hitters, but played the windy conditions. bounced back,” Floyd said. “Even 
“It was more getting behind the hits they got, they were good in the count and throwing meat-pitches, and I got weak contact balls, and letting them crush the for the most part. I made a couple ball,” he said. “It was pretty stu-of mistakes with two strikes, but pid.” overall I felt strong. Even when 
However, Greinke said he isn’t things went wrong, I was able to too concerned. get refocused.” 
“I was looking forward to mak-The White Sox will play two ex­ing a good start,” he said. “It was hibition games against the Astros just a bad one. They were taking a on Tuesday and Wednesday in lot of pitches. I was getting behind Houston. The team departs with then not making quality pitches.” its Opening Day roster set, but 
Manager Ron Roenicke was without a regular closer. 
BASEBALL 

Irish focus on fixing flaws in non-conference matchup 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s game against Toledo on Tuesday won’t be a matchup of undefeated or top-ranked teams. It’s not a renewal of a geographical or historical rivalry. It won’t show up on either team’s conference record. 
But Irish coach Mik Aoki said the Irish (16-10, 4-2 Big East) are taking the contest as seri­ously as any other game on the schedule. 
“The danger that you could run into is that the players think that the game is less im­portant because their team is not in our conference,” Aoki said. “That’s one of the things we have to make sure we stay on guard about because every single game counts. It’s really important in order to make the NCAA tournament at the end of the year, so we have to make sure that regardless of who the opponent is, conference or non-conference, we bring the same intensity and attention to detail to every game.” 
Although the Rockets (12-14, 3-3 MAC) have been a respect­able team in recent years, Aoki said he’d rather focus on fixing Notre Dame’s flaws than wor­rying about Toledo’s strengths. 
“It’s kind of the same old song and dance for us — we need to make sure that we’re worrying less about the opponent than we are worrying about our­selves,” Aoki said. “[We need to make sure] that we’re ready to compete at a high level.” 
For Toledo coach Cory Mee, the game will be something of a homecoming. Mee was a four-year starter for the Irish from 1989 to 1992, playing catcher, second and third base. He also served as a volunteer and as­sistant coach for the Irish be­fore he became the Rockets’ head coach in 2003. 
Mee will send freshman Alec Schmenk to the mound to face his alma mater. This will be Schmenk’s second start; the right-hander has put together a 4.38 ERA and 0-1 record in seven appearances this season. 
His opposite number will be right-handed junior Patrick Veerkamp, who is 2-0 with a 
4.80 ERA in 15 innings this season. 
Although the Irish bullpen was taxed against USF over the weekend, Aoki expects most of the pitchers to be ready to go if need be. 
“The only guys who would be unavailable are the three starters and then [freshman] Patrick Connaughton. Every­one else would be available,” Aoki said. “They were used in small bursts here and there, except for [Connaughton], and threw five or maybe six pitches or something like that. Out­side of [senior Will] Hudgins, [junior Adam] Norton, [soph­omore Sean Fitzgerald] and Connaughton, we should have everyone in our bullpen avail­able, so we’ll try to get guys in there as the situation dictates.” 
Aoki said a midweek win also improves the team’s tra­jectory as they head into their weekend series. 
“It helps your team to feel good about itself,” Aoki said. “It either continues or starts hopefully a little bit of momen­tum, a little something to build upon.” 
Veerkamp will throw out the first pitch against Toledo at 5:35 p.m. Tuesday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Pecor overcomes old injuries to dominate his sophomore year 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
If facing adversity only makes one stronger, then sophomore Billy Pecor is the perfect exam­ple. 
After facing injuries during his freshman year and a brief period at the end of February during matches against Mar­quette and Indiana, Pecor has now won four straight singles matches at No. 4 singles and three of his last four doubles matches with senior Sam Keeton at No. 3 doubles.
 “He has two bad knees that bothered him all last year and he didn’t play a single dual match last year,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Then, per­haps from over compensation on the serve by not wanting to use his legs, he got an injury around the scapula. That was a problem because he couldn’t raise his hand higher than his shoulder for a while.” 
Because he missed significant time due to the injuries last sea­son, Pecor was granted a medi­cal redshirt by the NCAA, giving him three more years of eligibil­ity after this season. After miss­ing the match against the Hoo­siers earlier this year, Pecor returned to the court March 3. Since then, he has compiled sin­gles victories against Ohio State, Maryland, South Florida and Ball State. 
“Lots of work in the training room, lots of rehab and solid practices [have led to my recent success],” Pecor said. “I’m just playing well. I’m striking the ball pretty well and gutted out some matches. The win over spring break was pretty shaky, but I’m working hard and trying to do my best.” 
In Pecor’s first match back, the Irish faced their toughest op­ponent all year: No. 2 Ohio State. Playing at No. 3 doubles, Pecor and Keeton took down redshirt sophomore Peter Kobelt and ju­nior Connor Smith 8-6 to clinch the doubles point for the Irish. Pecor followed up the exciting victory by defeating No. 44 red-shirt junior Devin McCarthy 4-6, 6-3, 1-0 (10-7) — the only Irish singles victory of the day. 
“We were both going at it the entire match,” Pecor said. “It was pretty long match, a pretty grueling match. 
“We all started off on a good note because we won the dou­bles point . . . That set us off on a good start heading into singles, but I just tried to use the same energy that I had and pass that onto my singles. I was able to do that and finish well.” 
Pecor’s victory not only hand­ed McCarthy his third loss of the spring season, but also dis­played Pecor’s potential if he is able to maintain a high level of play, Bayliss said. 
“With Billy’s game, the sky is the limit,” Bayliss said. “He hits the biggest ball on the team. There are not many people he can’t overpower. Devin McCar­thy from Ohio State is a big, strong guy that knocks people off the court and Billy knocked him off the court. 
“I’m just looking for him to become a little more proficient around the net and more consis­tent in general.” 
While Pecor has battled inju­ries throughout his collegiate career, there is another chal­lenge that he must continually overcome. As a civil engineer­ing major, Pecor must balance his heavy academic workload with the time commitment that comes with being a varsity ath­lete. 
“He’s taking a really hard class load this semester and I think there have been days where he has kind of dragged in here with three hours of sleep,” Bayliss said. “He’s had to fight through some of those things, but that’s all part of the deal.” 

With four matches remaining the rest of the season,” Pecor before the Big East champion-said. “We want to win the Big ship, Pecor and the team have a East back in Tampa Bay in April clear goal in mind. and we want to win the first two 
“We want to finish very strong rounds and go the final side of the NCAA tournament and hope­fully go further than that.” 

Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

Year 
continued from page 20 
tenure. Add to that extreme level of aged talent the experience gained from last year’s title-game loss (and the proverbial chip that has grown on Diggins’ shoulder since), and you have a recipe for success. 

The Irish So what happens when 
have been on two teams seemingly a beeline for 
fated to capture the 
the national 

national championship 
championship 

meet on a collision 
since the 

course? The answer 
final buzzer 

is obvious: One team 
sounded in 

last year’s will be bounced from title-game its trajectory while the loss. It has other breaks through been a great and makes history. 
two teams seemingly fated to capture the national championship meet on a collision course? The answer is obvious: One team will be bounced from its trajectory while the other breaks through and makes history. At the same time, no substantial answer is 


campaign, with nothing but minor bumps along the road. If there is ever a year that the Irish can add another title to the 2001 installment, this is it. 
And yet, this is Brittney Griner’s year. The 6-foot-8 junior has lead the Bears within one game of the first 40-0 season in Division I basketball. If there is ever a team that could complete the perfect season through 40 games, Baylor is that team. 
So what happens when available yet — it will play out over the course of tonight’s game. 
Certainly, a loss would be more disappointing for the Irish. If the best senior class in program history cannot add another banner to Purcell Pavilion, what Irish team will? Diggins will be back next year, along with McBride and Achonwa, but the likelihood 
of winning the national championship only decreases from here. Baylor’s top six scorers, meanwhile, have another year of eligibility, making this season more of a prelude to “the year” for the Bears than anything. 
For the losing team, the moment will pass and the 2011-2012 season will become a source of regret and a topic of conversation on media day next year. But for the winning team, the 2011-2012 season will take on an infinite amount of added significance, forever to be known as “the year.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Champs 
continued from page 20 
the basket. 
“I think we’ll be able to run the stuff we have and really maybe have to make that extra 
pass, which we’ve been really good at all year long,” McGraw said. 
“[G riner is] a game changer on the defensive end,” Novosel said. “So we just have to be smarter and engaging her and dish­ing off and just to not go in there and go right up into her.” 
Sophomore guard Odys­sey Sims, ju­
“I think we’ve gotten a lot better,” McGraw said. “I think we’re a lot smarter. I think our shot selection is much im­proved, and I think defensively we’re a lot better.” 
The Lady Bears did not see any particular reason the ear­ly season matchup would have 
an effect on either team’s appr oach to tonight’s game. 
“I wouldn’t 

“I think we’re a lot smarter. I think our shot selection is much imporved and I think defensively we’re a lot better. ” 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
say it’s an adva ntage,” Griner said. “We played them, and they know us and we know them.” 
Another key matchup will be the battle of the point guards between Dig-gins and Sims. In the first game 


nior guard Jordan Madden and senior guard/forward Terran Condrey form a strong sup­porting cast around Griner. 
In Sunday night’s matchup with the Cardinal, Stanford held Griner to 13 points on three-of-nine shooting. But against Baylor, Sims scored 25 points and had six assists. 
“Odyssey is what makes them go,” Diggins said. “She’s a great point guard. She does a great job getting to the line. She’s 40 percent from the three-point line, so you have 
the trio of guards con­sistently hit shots when the Cardinal doubled down on Griner. Condrey had 13 points, Sims finished with 11 and Madden had nine. 
The Irish fell 94-81 to Baylor in Waco, Texas, on Nov. 20. In that match-up, Notre Dame had no answer for Griner. She scored 32 

“It’s not going to be anything that Muffet does or I do. It’s going to be those guys on the floor making plays. Whoever makes the most plays will win the basketball game.” 
Kim Mulkey Baylor coach 
to honor that. And she’s also good at getting to the basket.” 
Both coach­es agreed that all the prepa­ration, all the practice and all the coach­ing would eventually boil down to execution. 
“It’s going to be play­ers making plays,” Bay­lor coach Kim Mulkey said. “It’s not going to be anything that 
points on 14-of-18 from the field, with 14 rebounds and five blocks. The Irish guards were able to produce offen­sively, with junior guard Sky­lar Diggins and Novosel scor­ing 27 and 28, respectively. 
Since that game, both teams have improved drastically. Each team was playing in only its fourth regular season game of the year at the time. 
Muffet does or I do. It’s going to be those guys on the floor making plays. Whoever makes the most plays will win the basketball game.” 
Notre Dame faces Baylor to­night at 8:30 p.m. in Denver’s Pepsi Center. The game will be aired on ESPN. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


FOOTBALL 

Defensive dynamos 
after article that convince fans a Slaughter and Jones play at 
Defensive ends will 

BCS season is assuredly on the positions with little experience way — even without a starting entering 2012. Not only does 
make all the difference 

quarterback or sufficient experi-Jones need to mentor Notre ence at receiver and cornerback. Dame’s youth at receiver, he When it comes to forming first needs to elevate his game 
expectations for next season, and realize what type of player 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Editor-in-Chief 

spring practice doesn’t matter. he wants to be. Michael Floyd is Don’t get me wrong — when gone. With it is the offense’s abil-It started back on Feb. 2, 
it comes to the development of a ity to rely on one player when the 2011 — National Signing Day 
football program, spring practice unit is sputtering (though senior 
is invaluable. The coaching staff tight end Tyler Eifert will have fensive linemen Stephon Tuitt — when highly-recruited de­
only gets so many practices with something to say about that). and Aaron Lynch signed to 
its squad between the end of one Slaughter has shown signs play for Notre Dame and Irish 
season and the start of another, of developing into a big-play coach Brian Kelly. It continued 
and these 15 sessions make up a defensive back primed for a during the 2011 campaign, 
good chunk of that time. terrific final season donning the when Tuitt and Lynch saw 
Fans, however, should not blue and gold. On opposite sides plenty of playing time, espe­
raise expectations because of of Slaughter and fellow starting cially after senior defensive what they hear in interviews safety senior Zeke Motta are two end Kapron Lewis-Moore went or what they see in five-minute new starters at the cornerback down with a knee injury. practice recap videos produced position who need to grow up 
“It” is momentum. And if by the football program itself. quickly before facing the likes of Lynch and Tuitt are to be be-“Everybody here has respect 
I’m still waiting for a coach Matt Barkley and Landry Jones. lieved, the Notre Dame defen-for each other,” he said. “Ev-
Irish need leaders to come out and say, “Our guys This is before you even factor sive front has a lot of it head-erybody here has loyalty to­
don’t have the heart to play in Notre Dame’s lack of a proven ing into the 2012 season. wards each other. Everybody 
championship-caliber football. quarterback. It’s a gargantuan “[We] know that we have the here plays their butts off for 
to emerge for success 
I’ve been very disappointed in — though not impossible — task ability to really do some mag-each other. That’s one thing 
Spring represents a fresh start the progress of our team since to overcome the lack of a leader ic here,” Tuitt said. “When it I’m learning — having fun 
across college football. The days the end of the season.” at the quarterback position. comes down to it, it’s all prac-with my defense.” 
get brighter and the snow melts Why would he? Maybe one of the four signal­tice, practice, become a better Tuitt missed the end of the 
away. So Regardless of perceived mo-callers contending for the start-player. When the fall season 2011 season with a bout of 
mentum heading into the season, ing job will surprise everyone. comes, we do our talking with mononucleosis, but fully re-too does the 
a team is only one 99-yard Confidence is almost as conta­our pads.” covered by the spring semes­negativity of 
fumble return for a touchdown gious as a lack of confidence, Tuitt said he and Lynch ter and will play more snaps the previous 
away from wiping it away. and half the battle is finding a thrive on a friendly competi-after the graduation of defen­season. 
For the Irish to truly turn the quarterback on whom to depend. tion that pushes each to be sive end Ethan Johnson. De-Even with 
the second 

page and have a strong 2012, Notre Dame could be very better. spite his increased workload, 
players need to step up. There are mediocre in 2012. It could be a “Lynch is a great player. He Tuitt said he is ready for the annual four-
enough quality coaches that the top-20 team. Unfortunately for has some stuff that I can’t do, grind. 
way Irish 

quarter-groundwork is being laid for suc-the Irish and their fans, patience and I have some stuff that he “When it comes down to it, 
back derby, cess. If the program is to evolve needs to be their second most can’t do,” Tuitt said. “Com-I’m ready to answer the bell,” 
optimism into the elite contender that has important virtue. Not turning the peting against each other, he said. 
abounds. been promised but not delivered football over is the first. through the bads and goods, While Tuitt will see plen-
Coaches talk for several years, the players being by each other’s side, it ty of action on the defensive 
about the need to take the next step. Contact Andrew Owens at always takes our game to the front, Kelly said there will be 
progress the Veterans like graduate student aowens2@nd.edu next level. Being able to go plenty of depth behind him. 
team has safety Jamoris Slaughter and ju-The views expressed in this play with each other, we learn “We’d like to be able to be at 
made, players discuss strides nior receiver TJ Jones are critical column are those of the author stuff from each other.” least six [deep,]” Kelly said. 
made in strength and condition-to the program’s trajectory. and not necessarily those of The That competition has been “[Playing] seven on the defen­
ing and writers produce article Why those two in particular? Observer. intense at times, but Lynch said sive line is great depth and we that has formed the defensive think that we can get there. front into a group of leaders. We’re giving guys a lot of “If you don’t play with an in-chances to show that they can tensity and a passion, I feel be number one. We’re getting like you shouldn’t be on the a lot of guys into action.” field,” Lynch said. “If you’re on Tuitt said he thinks all of the field, every person has to those players will come to-be a leader. Everybody has to gether to form a cohesive unit. push everybody.” “It’s all going to fit together 
Despite the competition, like a puzzle, and we’re going the defining characteris-to take off,” he said. tic of the defensive line, and the defense as a whole, Contact Allan Joseph at has been unity, Tuitt said. ajoseph2@nd.edu 






CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUgENIA LAST 


LEE HAggENJOS AND ALEx gRISWOLD 
JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARgIRION 
LONDON EXPRESS 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, April 3, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
 Once more 
Irish return to title game for second consecutive year 

By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 

DENVER — One year ago, Notre Dame squared 
off against Texas A&M in the national champion 
ship game in Indianapolis and left heartbroken. 
Tonight, the Irish get their shot at redemption. 

“I think last year was a little bit of an upset 
to get here, and now we feel like we were the 
higher seed,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw 
said. “We should have gotten here.” 
Standing 6 foot-8 and right be 
tween Notre Dame (35 3) and its 
second national title is super 
star center Brittney Griner 
and Baylor (39 0), the unde 
feated favorite. 
Baylor has a chance to do 
something no other team in 
the history of college basket 

ball has done: win 40 games in 
a season. 

For graduate students De 
vereaux Peters and Brittany Mallory 
as well as graduating senior Natalie 
Novosel, tonight’s game will be the last 
in an Irish uniform. Each has had a distin 
guished career at Notre Dame, but winning 
a title would be the ultimate capstone. 
“It’s a great feeling,” Mallory said. “We, 
us seniors and the whole team, really just 
wanted to get back here. We had this chance 
last year, and didn’t come up. We came up 
short. And we’re just excited to be here and 
we’re looking forward to the chance to get 
that back.” 

For perhaps the first time since they 
faced Connecticut on Jan. 7 in Purcell Pa 
vilion, the Irish will be the underdog, a po 
sition they embrace. 

“We’re back to being the underdog. Fi 
nally,” McGraw said. “It’s taken us a long 
time to get our green jerseys on. And we 
can now be even more loose and the pres 
sure is all on them.” 

The obvious challenge for Notre Dame is 
Griner’s presence inside. Her 6 foot-8 frame, 
even longer wingspan and polished post skills 
make her nearly impossible to defend one on 
one. The Irish will have to double down and 
make someone else beat them. 
“She’s an extraordinary player,” McGraw said. 
“I think she changes the game. She changes a 
lot of things.” 

In the four guard system McGraw employs, 
the emphasis is not on the post. Thus, Notre 
Dame may not be as affected by Griner’s pres 
ence as much as some other teams. But the 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
star certainly changes the way teams attack 

Irish senior guard Skylar Diggins celebrates Notre see CHAMPS/page 17 Dame’s 83-75 victory over UConn on Sunday. 
Experience drives Notre Dame’s championship run 
For the second year in a row, the Irish captured a victory over Connecticut in the Final Four and are headed to the national championship game. 
The only difference is, this year is “the year.” 
Last year, the second-seeded Irish toppled Tennessee and Connecticut on the way to a title date with Texas A&M. For emphasis, Notre Dame beat the two undisputed powers in women’s basketball in consecutive games in the NCAA tournament. If there is a better way for a team Joseph Monardo to announce itself as having arrived, it hasn’t been Sports Writer discovered yet. 


After terrorizing a pair of top seeds, the Irish only had to dismiss the No. 2 seed Aggies to cut down the nets. They shed the underdog role which they had taken on so effectively in the Elite Eight and Final Four and became the favorites to win the National Championship game. Throughout the course of the tournament, the Irish changed “Connecticut’s year,” or “Tennessee’s year,” to “Notre Dame’s year.” 
But then they lost, and the year was over. The moment passed and the Irish were left with nothing but runner-up status. 
This year, on the other hand, has been Notre Dame’s year from day one. Returning all-world junior point guard Skylar Diggins, whose popularity skyrocketed to idol status during the 2011 tournament run, the Irish entered the season as early favorites to reach the national championship game. 
Along with Diggins, the Irish welcomed back two graduate students in forward Devereaux Peters and guard Brittany Mallory, who seemed to be using their final year of eligibility in 2012 as a result of some act of fate rather than of unfortunate injuries. Even more, senior guard Natalie Novosel was back to make another run at a title. Novosel’s toughness and versatility on the offensive end have sustained the Irish all year, none more so than when she forced overtime against the Huskies with a put-back layup in the final seconds of the national semifinal game Sunday. 
Sophomore guard Kayla McBride and sophomore forward Natalie Achonwa performed admirably in supporting roles all season, as did senior guard Fraderica Miller. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw has referred to Peters, Mallory, Novosel and Miller as possibly the best outgoing class to come through Notre Dame during her 25-year 
see YEAR/page 17 

Baylor’s Sims serves as unheralded complement to Griner 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Senior Sports Writer 
DENVER — Contrary to pop­ular belief, the Baylor offense is more than just the lob pass to six-foot-eight junior center Brittney Griner. In fact, three Lady Bears finished with more field goals than Griner in their victory over Stanford in the na­tional semifinals Sunday night, including dynamic sophomore point guard Odyssey Sims. 
An Associated Press All-American second team selec­tion, Sims orchestrates the Baylor attack from the back-court — a perfect complement to Griner’s dominance in the post. 
“I think she’s the key to the game. We’ll throw different things at Brittney, but Odys­sey’s what makes them go,” Irish junior guard Skylar Dig-gins said. “She gets out, she gets steals and she’s going to be aggressive. I think we have to make sure we pay attention to her. We have to shade her side. We definitely have to be able to pressure her too and not give her as easy looks to pass.” 
Sims averages 14.7 points and 4.5 assists per game, while shooting a blistering 40 per­cent from 3-point territory on the season. Her ability to spread the floor, penetrate the lane and find the open shooter has drawn comparisons to Dig-gins, Notre Dame’s own south­paw all-American point guard. 
“I think it’s an interesting matchup [with them] both be­ing left-handed,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I think Skylar is a great defender, great passer … And I think Sims is a great player also. I think she’s a huge key to their team. She has really, really done a lot of great things this year. It’s not just because she can throw the ball to Griner. I think she can do a lot on her own as well.” 
Griner’s monster 32-point, 14-rebound performance led Baylor in its 94-81 victory over Notre Dame on Nov. 20, but Sims made an almost equal impact. The sophomore guard finished with 25 points, six as­sists and six steals with Dig-gins defending her. 
“They’ve played together on [Team] USA basketball this summer. Odyssey was the youngest player on the team,” Baylor coach Kim Mulkey said. “I think you’ll see two of the fin­est point guards in the country. I anticipate that it won’t be any different than when Odyssey guarded [Diggins] and played against her at our place.” 
Baylor junior forward Des­tiny Williams, who played with both Sims and Diggins last summer on Team USA in the Women’s World Univer­sity Games, said the two point guards’ similarities are re­markable, but still gives the advantage to Sims. 
“Playing with Odyssey, she’s growing and she’s maturing into a fine basketball player,” Williams said. “I think Od­yssey’s defense is amazing. When she picks it up, I think the whole team picks it up. I think their IQs are about the same, just two point guards that are great players going at it. I enjoyed playing with both of them, but I’d rather have Od­yssey.” 
Diggins also had an out­standing performance in the southpaws’ last meeting, fin­ishing with 27 points and three assists. After defending Diggins in the regular season and playing with her over the summer, Sims said the respect between the two offensive cap­tains is mutual. 
“She’s just great all-around. She has great court vision, she can pick it up and dribble and she can pull up too — that’s what makes her so great. She makes everyone around her better,” Sims said. “We played [Team] USA basketball togeth­er, two great players playing on the same team. She was a great teammate and I’m look­ing forward to the challenge on Tuesday.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 






