
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


GSA asks University for official recognition 
ND denies LGBTQ groups club status multiple times since 1986, seeks to serve community through other resources 
son for rejecting the clubs. SARAH MERVOSH Last week, students submitted Managing Editor the most recent application ask­
ing that SAO recognize a gay­

Editor’s note: This is the first straight alliance (GSA). It was installment in a three-part se-the fourth application for a GSA ries about the experience of LG-in the last six years, Peggy Hna-BTQ students at Notre Dame in tusko, director of student activi­light of recent requests that the ties for programming, said. University grant club status to a Hnatusko said the proposed gay-straight alliance. GSA is under review, but also 
said the current structures the 

For more than 25 years, Notre University offers best meet the Dame students have asked the needs of LGBTQ students. University to formally recognize “It remains the viewpoint of a student organization that ad-the Student Activities Office that dresses the needs of the lesbian, due to the sufficiently complex gay, bisexual, transgender and nature of the issue, the needs of questioning (LGBTQ) commu-gay, lesbian, bisexual and ques­nity on campus. tioning students can best be met 
The requests have come in through the structures that are many forms, including student currently in place,” she said. government resolutions, a re-Student body president Pat port to the Board of Trustees McCormick said the University and applications from student has made significant progress organizations requesting to be on addressing the needs of LG-officially recognized as a club BTQ students over the years, but vance the spirit of inclusion fur-of applications received by the serving the needs of LGBTQ by the Student Activities Office students have come to him ask-ther in ways that are consistent Student Activities Office whose students has requested club (SAO). ing for the next step. with Catholic teaching.” purposes cover a wide array of status and been denied. 
Each time, the University re-“Students are asking and gay and lesbian student issues,” Based on interviews and cop­jected the request, but also af-seeking a peer-to-peer kind of A long history Hnatusko said. “These propos-ies of rejection letters obtained firmed its commitment to meet-group where gay and straight The names and specific objec-als have ranged from providing through student government ing the needs of LGBTQ students students can come together and tives of the groups have changed a support group to establishing records, The Observer verified in ways other than a student-have their own kind of indepen-over the years, but since the a gay- straight alliance.” seven requests. Senior Sam to-student group, according to dent group,” he said. “The core 1980s, unofficial student groups Hnatusko and representatives Costanzo, who submitted this rejection letters. The University element that we’re trying to seek for LGBTQ students have sought from Student Affairs were un-year’s application for a GSA, has historically cited a conflict is whether we can make some official University recognition. able to provide the exact num­with Catholic teaching as a rea-kind of progress in trying to ad-“There have been a number ber of times a student group see GSA/page 7 



Police alert ND campus of assault 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) alerted students in an email Saturday night of a reported sexual assault that occurred in the early morning hours of March 3. NDSP is investigating the reported incident. 
Police said the reported assault was committed by a non-stranger in a residence hall. 
They advised students to be conscious of the environment they are in and look out for friends to reduce the risk of sexual assault. 
“College students are more likely to be assaulted by an ac­quaintance than a stranger. This means that the person perpetrat­ing the assault could be part of the campus community. Being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault,” the email stated. 


MAN’S BEST FRIEND 



SMC elects new student bodyleaders 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Govern­ment Association (SGA) tallied the votes of this year’s election Friday morning and announced juniors Maureen Parsons and Meghan Casey as president and vice president, respectively. 
“When we first heard the news of winning the elections, we were beyond excited,” Casey said. “We were grateful that the student body elected us to represent them and put into ac­tion our goals that we wish to achieve.” 
Parsons said the win was a result of hard work and active support. 
“With our determination and the help of our friends, we were able to reach out to as many students as possible to con-


see ELECTION/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Sammy Adams to come to SMC page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Flat Top breakfast page 10 u Bengal Bouts finals page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE PLACE OFF CAMPUS? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Caitlin Housley Andrew Gastelum Nicole Michels Matthew Christian Myers DeFranks Graphics Conor Kelly Dan Azic Scene Viewpoint Maria Fernandez Meghan Photo Thomassen Pat Coveney  
CORRECTION The Mar. 1 edition of The Observer featured an aritcle about Alta Gracia that was in error as to the following: Alta Gracia is only 2 years old; Alta Gracia is an initiative of Knights Apparel which is the largest supplier of collegiate apparel; Alta Gracia currently does not supply blanks to Notre Dame; and the reported 30 cents more per shirt is an estimate rather than an exact figure — the figure depends on the piece being produced. The Observer regrets these errors.  
HIGH 34 LOW 30 


Austin Hagwood  Ashley Towne  Joey White  Emily Hefferon  John Clohishy  Caroline Kruse  
freshman  freshman  sophomore  junior  junior  sophomore  
Dillon  Welsh Family  Carroll  Pasquerilla East  Dillon  Pasquerilla East  
“Anywhere  “New York City.”  “Walt Disney  “Chipotle.”  “Brothers.”  “My bed at  
that I can find  World.”  home.”  
laughter and  
pasta.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Patron Saint of Dublin’s heart stolen from cathedral 
DUBLIN — Somewhere in Ireland, a burglar has the heart of a saint. 
Officials at Christ Church Cathedral in Dublin said Sunday they’re distraught and perplexed over the theft of the church’s most precious relic: the preserved heart of St. Laurence O’Toole, patron saint of Dublin. 
O’Toole’s heart had been displayed in the cathedral since the 13th century. It was stored in a heart-shaped wooden box and secured in a small, square iron cage on the wall of a chapel dedicated to his memory. On Saturday some­one cut through two bars, pried the cage loose, and made off with the relic. 
“I am devastated that one of the treasured artifacts of the cathedral is stolen,” said the Most Rev. Dermot Dunne, the cathedral’s dean. “It has no economic value but it is a priceless treasure that links our present foundation with its founding father.” 
Ireland’s national police force, the Garda Siochana, said detectives were study­ing hours of closed-circuit TV footage to try to identify the approximately 40 people who walked out the cathe­dral’s front doors Saturday morning. 
Governor accidentally calls his Lt. Governor a “sex star” 
DENVER — Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper’s flattering comments about Lt. Gov. Joe Garcia turned into a bit of a flub. 
The governor mistak­enly referred to Garcia as a “rising sex star” Wednes­day. He made the remark while introducing him at a childhood literacy event attended by about 40 chil­dren at a Denver elemen­tary school. 
Hickenlooper routinely introduces Garcia as a “ris­ing star” and a “rock star” at public events. The Dem­ocrat immediately caught his slip, which was record­ed by radio station KOA. The Denver Post reported the comments Thursday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The Department of Ap­plied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics will host the colloquium, “Properties of Point Esti­mators,” in Room 127 of the Hayes-Healy Center from 4 to 5 p.m. today. Topics cov­ered include bias, variance, efficiency, mean squared error and consistency. 
The Black Student As­sociation is sponsoring a “March Madness Basket­ball Arcade” in the Sorin Room of LaFortune from 
5:30 to 7 p.m. tonight. The cost is $1 per game. The event will continue for the rest of the month. 
The Program in Sacred Music is sponsoring the concert, “Conspirare — A Lenten Journey in Choral Song,” in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart from 8 to 9:30 
p.m. tonight. The event is free and open to the public. 
The Howard Hall “Chapel Crawl” will hold a Mass in Farley Hall at 10 p.m. to­night. 
The Department of Aero­space and Mechanical En­gineering will host the seminar, “A Coupled Elec­tro-Chemo-Mechanical Framework for Diffusion and Deformation in Solids,” in Room 138 of DeBartolo Hall from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. Tuesday. 
The Center for Ethics and Culture will host the lec­ture, “Emotion and Virtue in Thomas Aquinas,” in Room 118 of DeBartolo Hall from 4 to 5 p.m. Tuesday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 








HIGH 54 LOW 41 
HIGH 58 LOW 42 
HIGH 44 LOW 35 
HIGH 39 LOW 24 





SMC to host Sammy Adams 
By MEAGHAN DALY 
News Writer 
The Student Activities Board (SAB) of Saint Mary’s College welcomes students of the tri-campus area to buy tickets to this year’s SMC Tostal performance— rapper Sam Adams. 
SAB president Allie Court­ney said the group worked hard to find a performer that would match the pop­ularity of last year’s per­former, Sean Kingston. 

“Sammy Adams music is fun, upbeat and very geared towards the college popu­lation,” she said. “We had a great turnout last year with Sean Kingston, so it is a challenge to improve the event year to year, but we are optimistic and working hard to do so. The most im­portant part of Tostal, for me, is to ultimately bring the communities together by providing an event that people really want to go to … most of all, it is all about the students. We just want to put on a great event for students to enjoy.” SAB secretary Elizabeth 
Although Courtney and Craig said the Saint Mary’s SAB vice president Caitlyn Tostal performer is chosen Wonski knew which per-to meet the needs of the former was hired before campus community. winter break, they kept the “We’re really hoping it performer a secret from will bring a good energy the general student body and good vibe to all three until Midnight Madness on campuses,” she said. “It is Wednesday night. a great way to get everyone 
“It is difficult to keep a excited for spring. Plus, it’s secret when you go to such an inexpensive event with a a small school and people great performer.” know your role on campus Junior Caroline Keep said and constantly ask you ques-she is very excited for the tions, but it is much more performance. rewarding to see student’s “I absolutely cannot wait reactions when the surprise to see Sam Adams perform,” is revealed,” Courtney said. she said. “It’s about time the Boston boy came to South Bend. Sean Kingston was amazing last year and I can only imagine that this year’s Tostal will be even better. March 22 cannot come soon enough.” 

Tickets are $7 for students and can be purchased at the O’Laughlin Auditorium on Saint Mary’s campus or by calling (574) 284-4626. Lim­it is one ticket per student ID, but students may call or visit the box office with up to five student IDs. 
Contact Meaghan Daly at          mdaly01@saintmarys.edu 




Basketball band to travel to NYC tournament 

By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame men’s basketball band will travel to Madison Square Gar­den on Tuesday to rally Notre Dame’s men’s basketball team in the Big East tournament games. 
“I have been to New York City many times, but I am still really excited,” junior Kathryn Murphy said. “Madison Square Garden is one of the most iconic places in the world, and I am excited to be representing the band and to show my support for the team.” 
Since the mean’s team se­cured a bye for the first round of play, senior Jonathan Miller said he will use the spare time to sight-see. 
“We get to spend an extra day in New York City, and a few band members and myself hope to see a Broadway show or do some other sight-seeing,” he said. 
Having already experienced the tournament atmosphere his freshman year, senior trumpet player Joel Graczyk said he is excited to play at a major game again and to watch the team play at the tournament. 
“As a freshman, I played in the band when the men’s bas­ketball team played against Penn State in the National In­vitation Tournament semifinal at the Garden, so I’m excited for the chance to go back,” he said. “I’m excited to watch our team compete as one of the best teams in college basketball right now.” 
Graczyk said the band will play a key role in fostering sup­port and enthusiasm for the team. 
“With the games beyond the travel capacity of most students, the band and cheerleaders play a key role in showing student support for the team,” he said. 
Miller said this enthusiasm and support is especially vital in an away-game atmosphere. 
“Tournaments have a very different atmosphere than reg­ular season games,” Miller said. “The pressure is higher because every game is a must-win and not having the advantage of a home crowd makes winning even harder.” 
Despite the raised stakes and added pressure, Miller said he thinks the Irish will have a suc­cessful tournament run. 
“I have full confidence our basketball team will do well in the tournament,” he said. “They have proven that they have what it takes to win the big games when it counts. I just hope they can feel out those rims in the Garden. The Big East is a tough conference.” 
After analyzing the bracket, Graczyk said he is confident that the Irish have the opportunity to advance to the final game. 
“Looking at the bracket, we have demonstrated that we have the ability to beat every team that potentially stands between us and the champion­ship game,” he said. “If we can play tough through a couple of games, there is a real possibility that we can play for the champi­onship.” 

Contact aubrey Butts at          abutts@nd.edu 


“This will allow relation­ships to develop among stu-

Election dents and build a strong sense 
continued from page 1 
vey our platform through signs, posters, and attending events throughout the week,” Parsons said. “It was great to know that our hard work during the week finally paid off!” 
Post-election, Parsons and Casey said they will appoint the remaining members of SGA and put together a list of goals while working with SGA adviser Karen Johnson. 
“Our goal is to have all appoint­ed positions selected by April 1st so that we can begin working with the current SGA members to have a smooth transition into the new SGA structure,” Casey said. “We will meet as a group to create goals and lay out a timeline of what we would like to see happen as a whole in the next school year for the student body. Also, we will sit down with each position to create goals and a timeline specific to their title.” 
In addition, Parsons said she hopes to launch a student men­tor program as soon as possible. 
“We want to begin the mentor program this spring so that it is developed and ready to launch in the fall of 2012,” Parsons said. “Once the program has been ap­proved, we will begin recruiting interested rising seniors and ris­ing juniors who would like to be a part of this new program. A rising senior will be paired with a rising sophomore, and a rising junior will be paired with a first year student at Saint Mary’s.” 
The mentor program will help fulfill a platform goal of unifying campus, Casey said. 
of unity around our campus, a top priority for us as student body representatives,” she said. 
Parsons and Casey said they will begin working with the administration at Saint Mary’s to look at options for a master calendar they hope to create for the campus. 
“This calendar will have each day’s meetings and events that are occurring on campus, and hopefully elimi­nate the large amounts of emails that students receive each day, Parsons said. “We hope that this calendar will help unify campus and keep students informed and aware of campus life activities.” 
During the SGA retreat at the beginning of next fall se­mester, Parsons and Casey will begin brainstorming ways to carry out their goals in the best way to represent the student body, Casey said. 
“We are excited to imple­ment the new SGA structure this next school year and look forward to the positive chang­es that it will bring for the student body of Saint Mary’s,” Parsons said. 
Joining Parsons and Casey are eight new campus sena­tors. Juniors Kristen Rice, Brittani Hradsky, Alyssa Vin­luan and Amanda Stukel will join the SGA team in addition to sophomores Jennifer Ban­deen and Abby Burgan and freshmen Meghan Talpash and Christie Hutch. 


Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 






‘Bluegrass Mass’ impresses audience at Saint Mary’s 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
News Writer 
Monroe Crossings Band and the South Bend Chamber Singers performed a unique Mass at Saint Mary’s College on Sunday, merging voices, strings and the twang of blue­grass. 
The groups performed com­poser Carol Barnett’s “The World Beloved: A Bluegrass Mass” in O’Laughlin Audito­rium as part of the Shaheen/ Duggan Performing Arts Se­ries. 
“‘A Bluegrass Mass’ com­bines the text of a traditional Catholic Mass, contemporary choral music, poetry and bluegrass instruments into a unique musical experience,” Barnett said in a College press release. “To bring the solemni­ty of the classical choir-based Mass together with the down home sparkle of bluegrass — now there’s an assignment for a composer.” 
Monroe Crossing began the night by performing with the South Bend Chamber Chil­dren’s Choir. 
Dressed in plaid shirts, jeans and suspenders, the children sang “Oh! Susanna”, “The Merry, Merry Heart” and “Cripple Creek”. 
“We’re bluegrass with a Scandinavian attitude,” Matt Thompson, mandolin, fiddle and vocalist for the Minneso­ta-based group, said. 
According to Nancy Menk, professor of music at Saint Mary’s College ,in a College press release, Monroe Cross­ings was the best band for the job. 
“‘A Bluegrass Mass’ is an outstanding musical piece,” Menk said. “It is tough and the rhythm is complicated. Monroe Crossing played the premiere of this unique Mass; it was written for them. The group knows the piece bet­ter than anyone. It was in our best interest to bring them here.” 
Despite being the best band for the job, Thompson con­fessed that he and his fellow band members actually forget about the performance after they agreed to it. 
“[We] completely forgot about it,” he said. “A year and a half later, [Barnett] came over and dropped this big stack of music in front of us.” 
This was an unusual en­counter, Thompson said. 
“Bluegrass players are used to playing by ear, so most people in bluegrass don’t read music,” he said, “And some people in the band don’t even read!” 

After a version was re­corded for the band to orally hear their parts, “A Bluegrass Mass” was born, and the band will perform it 10 times this year alone, Thompson said. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at         cecker01@saintmarys.edu 



Muslim student group teaches the art of Quranic recitation 
MARISA IATI that faith community and want to do so in the most Qur’an Recitation will fea-ing people, but just [inviting] News Writer it’s a way that they can hold beautiful voices,” Khan said. ture another speaker, Abdul them into it, it really helps discussions and also have “If somebody wants to be-Rashied Omar, and a review us understand each other 
Notre Dame’s Muslim Stu-questions and answers.” come successful or skillful of the book “The Art of Re-or embrace each other,” she dent Association (MSA) in-Wong said in the past, in this art, he has to train citing the Qur’an” by Kris-said. “And I personally be­vites students to engage in Campus Ministry’s Muslim also, and there are many tina Nelson. There will also lieve that is how we, as hu­prayer around the world prayer services featured very famous reciters in the be a question and answer manity, are tied together.” Tuesday with the Art of PowerPoint presentations world that are excelling in session. Learning about other Qur’an Recitation. that explained prayer pos-this field … It basically re-“The book review we are faiths makes a person think 
Priscilla Wong, associate ture and the basic pillars of quires the mastery of the up doing [is] just to highlight and feel about his or her director of cross-cultural the faith. This year, Wong and down of the voice, also the scholarship that is going own religion, Wong said. ministry for Campus Min-said the MSA chose to focus using several of your mus-into researching and learn-“They’re entering this way istry, said the event is part on the art of recitation. cles in the mouth or throat ing about reciting Qur’an,” of communicating with God of the Prayer Around the First-year graduate stu-to correctly pronounce Ara-Khan said. “There are books and they make their faith World series — a program dent Aamir Ahmed Khan, bic.” about it and we chose this life better,” she said. “So started approximately eight coordinator of the event, Khan said Rasoul Rasou-book especially because it the intention is not to try to years ago to promote inter-said recitation of the Qur’an lipour, a post-doctoral re-is by an American professor, convert people, but to help faith understanding and di-is a fundamental part of search associate in the De-so the general audience can learning by [comparing] and alogue. prayer. Muslims believe the partment of Theology, will connect to it.” [contrasting] so that we em­
“We thought that we need Qur’an is the word of God to discuss the significance of Wong said interfaith un-brace our own [faith] more to bring people together, and the prophet Muhammad. the prayer form and recite derstanding and dialogue dearly.” sharing how we pray is wel-“Muslim prayer is five part of the Qur’an. Rasoulip-helps to connect cultures. Khan said MSA consists of coming people into our faith times a day and they recite our will also share examples “The more we can invite 20 to 30 graduate students and culture,” Wong said. some part of the Qur’an in of other people’s recitations. other people into our prayer, and slightly more under­“We work with people from each of the prayers, and they Khan said the Art of into our faith, not convert-graduates. He said most of 
the graduate students are from other countries, where­as most of the undergradu­ates are American citizens. 


MSA celebrates Muslim festivals and helps new Mus­lim students adjust to at­tending a Catholic univer­sity, Khan said. 
“Because Muslims have to pray five times a day, we also gather occasionally for afternoon prayer at [the Coleman-Morse Center],” he said. “So these services are basically for Muslim stu­dents on campus, but the event like this … is [a] kind of outreach.” 
Khan said Campus Min­istry and MSA are hosting the Art of Qur’an Recitation to expose students to other forms of prayer. 
“I think this will be very helpful for people of the Catholic community and also other religions that don’t have an idea about how Muslims go about their prayers,” he said. 
The prayer service will take place Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Cen­ter. 

Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 



Students meet with residents 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame student government and the South Bend area met last week at the annual Student Govern­ment Community Summit to brainstorm ways to improve communication between the campus and surrounding com­munity. 
Student body president Pat McCormick said the annual Summit gives student govern­ment the opportunity to engage with South Bend residents. 
“In recent years, student government has worked quite aggressively to deepen part­nership between community members and students at Notre Dame,” he said. “There has been an effort to really solidify our relations with the commu­nity on the basis of mutuality.” 
McCormick said the summit involved student government representatives from Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s, Holy Cross and Ivy Tech, advocates for lo­cal businesses, officers from the South Bend Police Depart­ment and Notre Dame Security Police and other delegates from the South Bend community. 
Senior Erika Hansen, direc­tor of community relations, said engaging all these people in discussion provides a basis for incoming student govern­ment’s policies on community relations. 
“It is a high level opportunity for students and members of the community to more broadly deepen partnerships as well as introduce incoming adminis­tration to community leaders,” Hansen said. “It sparks ideas for how to get students more motivated and more involved to go downtown and patronize local stores and restaurants.” 
Student body president-elect and current vice president Brett Rocheleau said incoming student government represen­tatives listened closely to com­munity concerns. 
One way student government can be of assistance to the community is spreading the word regarding student safety off-campus, Rocheleau said. 
“The police force mentioned that there are a lot of stu­dents walking around at night alone,” he said. “They want to make sure that students know to be safe when they’re out in the neighborhood.” 
Rocheleau also said student government hopes to partici­pate in more community-wide events next year, including a possible special celebration the weekend of the Notre Dame football game in Dublin. 
“There was an idea float­ing around at the community summit to throw an Irish cel­ebration that weekend … [and to hold] a Taste of South Bend where it would be all about local South Bend eateries,” Rocheleau said. “They talked about mimicking Chicago dur­ing St. Patty’s Day and dying the river green.” 
Summit attendees also dis­cussed marketing strategies for the annual Freshman Bus Tour, an event sponsored by the mayor’s office to introduce new students to what South Bend has to offer, McCormick said. 
In addition, Hansen said an­other topic discussed was how to integrate the new housing development opening on Eddy Street into the South Bend community in the future. 
Each year’s summit influ­ences the work student gov­ernment does during the year, McCormick said. 
“One of our platform ideas had been to try to integrate the arts community more fully in advocacy in student govern­ment,” McCormick said. “Last year’s summit was an early chance to … bring the art com­munity together at Notre Dame to advance the arts on campus and beyond” 
McCormick said this year’s summit also allowed him to thank those in the South Bend community who were influen­tial in helping student govern­ment. 
“We are grateful for the at­tendance and contributions made by community members and to come together to thank community leaders who played such an important role in ef­forts of the student government team this year,” he said. 
McCormick said Notre Dame students continue to become more involved with the South Bend community and that meetings like the summit are important. 
“Students increasingly think of themselves as members of a shared South Bend communi­ty,” he said. “There is no longer a bubble mentality.” 
Rocheleau said he hopes to continue this trend by pursu­ing the ideas put forth at this year’s Summit. 
“Our main goal is to try to deepen our roots in South Bend so that we’re more than just four-year visitors, rather that we’re part of the community,” he said. 

Contact tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 

Telenovela star claims to be victim of abuse 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Months after moving to the United States, Latin America tele­novela star Eliana Lopez blogged about her hopes and aspirations for her new, sim­pler life as a wife and mother, far from the bright lights of TV and movies. 
The Venezuelan actress was excited about living in San Francisco— “a beau­tiful and avant-garde city where millions of interesting people make things happen every day” —raising her son with then-Supervisor Ross Mirkarimi, and teaching bi­lingual mother-and-baby dance classes. 
“To try to be conscious of my life whenever possible, of what scares me, of what I love and what moves me,” Lo­pez wrote in 2010. “To try to ask questions of myself and what surrounds me, to ques­tion myself and not wake up one day and see my son as a stranger, thinking that life passed me by ... That is my goal.” 
Today, Lopez is back in the spotlight. This time as an alleged victim of domes­tic violence as her husband, Mirkarimi — now the embat­tled San Francisco sheriff — faces trial this week on mis­demeanor criminal charges that he grabbed and bruised her arm in front of their tod­dler son on New Year’s Eve. 
Lopez has become a sym­bol, willing or not, for anti-domestic violence advocates and the central figure in a case that has already sepa­rated her family and threat­ens her husband’s political career. A video purportedly showing her discussing what happened has emerged as key evidence. 
On Feb. 27, Judge Garrett Wong ruled the video could be used as evidence as Mirkari­mi’s attorneys sought a mis­trial. Then Lopez’s lawyers argued two days later that the video be inadmissible to no avail, after prosecutors released photo images from the video showing an emo­tional Lopez with a noticeable bruise on her arm. 
Lopez’s lawyers appealed, and on Friday a judge put on hold using the video until he could rule on its admissibil­ity. 
Lopez probably did not want this type of celebrity and Mirkarimi can’t afford any­thing less than an acquittal, said Rory Little, a professor at the University of California Hastings School of Law in San Francisco. 
“It’s an unfortunate cycle for some victims in that they may regret calling attention to their partner’s apparent brief loss of control,” said Lit­tle, a former federal prosecu­tor. “But then again, we don’t know what happened. That’s what makes these domes­tic violence cases difficult to prosecute because there are usually no witnesses, except for the victim and the defen­dant.” 
Both Lopez and Mirkarimi have repeatedly denied the allegations. She went on Ven­ezuelan radio in January de­claring that prosecutors are out to get her husband. 
She also stood by Mirkari­mi as he was sworn in as sheriff, just days before he was booked at his own jail. And she later tearfully told a judge that that she is not some “poor little immigrant,” adding, “I’m not afraid of my husband at all.” 
While the judge found Lo­pez to be strong and “quite charming,” he said there was still a “volatile situation” at play. The sheriff is under a court order to stay away from Lopez, although he recently has been allowed to see his son. 
Lopez is dejected that the case is proceeding, said Paula Canny, one of her lawyers. 
“She feels disrespected by the government,” Canny said. “She has repeatedly advised them that there was no act of domestic violence, it was an argument. As a family, they’re a wreck. This isn’t supposed to happen in America.” 
Lopez, 36, has appeared in numerous TV shows and films in Latin America. She is perhaps best known as Ori­ana Ponce De León, a villain­turned-heroine on the Ven­ezuelan telenovela, “Amor a Palos.” 
Professor lectures on ethics of HHS mandate 

By CAROLINA WILSON 
News Writer 
In a lecture about medi­cal ethics Friday, law pro­fessor Carter Snead ad­dressed why a non-Catholic or non-religious person without moral objections to contraception should be concerned about the recent Health and Human Servic­es (HHS) mandate. 
“The past several years have seen a concerning ar­ray of challenges for reli­gious liberty in particular and [for] freedom of con­science,” Snead, the re­cently appointed director of Notre Dame’s Center for Ethics and Culture, said. 
Snead began his discus­sion at the 27th annual Clarke Family Lecture with an outline of events cor­responding to the current conflicts in religious lib­erty. These included the 2009 rhetorical shift of the terms “freedom of wor­ship” to “religious liberty” in the 2011 non-renewal of a grant to the United States Conference of Cath­olic Bishops (U.S.C.C.B.) for a sex trafficking vic­tim’s program and the 2011 threat of withholding Med­icaid funds to states. 
“[These events] have raised grave concerns in the minds of people who value religious freedom, and value rights to con­science,” Snead said. 
Another section of Snead’s speech addressed concerns raised by those from a pro-life perspec­tive regarding religious liberty in the “contracep­tive” mandate, a subset of the Affordable Care Act passed in 2010.
 “[The religious liberty concern] was that man­dates would force some employers, such as Catho­lic institutions, to facili­tate behavior that they hold to be gravely immoral, thus severely diminishing the efficacy of their pub­lic witness to the truths of their faith,” he said. 
Snead said there are “costs” to religious liberty and conscience under the mandate. 
He said the mandate acted in violation of some people’s most deeply held beliefs. 
Snead referenced the let­ter University President Fr. John Jenkins wrote to HHS in September, which said accepting this regulation would be “an impossible position.” 
“The [regulation] would compel Notre Dame to ei­ther pay for contraception and sterilization in viola­tion of the Church’s moral teaching, or to discontinue our employee and student health care plans in viola­tion of the Church’s social teaching,” Jenkins wrote. 
Snead said President Obama’s speech on Feb. 10 attempted to address reli­gious liberty concerns and promised to find accommo­dations where employers “will not have to pay” for objectionable services. But Snead said the final rule remained unchanged. 
Additionally, Snead said the mandate was in viola­tion of broader issues of religious liberty and con­science. 
“Are there reasons for those who don’t have ‘a dog in the fight’ to be con­cerned about this issue?” he said. 
Snead said he had se­rious concern regarding abortive drugs, an un­precedented violation of religious liberty, a flawed form of governance, irre­sponsible social engineer­ing, coercion and erosion of civil society. 
More specifically, Snead said the HHS mandate was a radical imposition of re­
ligious liberty  and  con­ 
science.  
“[The  mandate]  con­ 

scripts institutions and in­dividuals into facilitating the provision of goods and services anathema to their deeply held religious be­liefs,” he said. 
Carter concluded his lec­ture by providing the au­dience with a plan for the future. 
He said a case needs to be made for the richness of religious liberty and con­science. Additionally, soci­ety needs to pursue rights under federal law and U.S. Constitution, he said. 
“We need to make our voices heard,” he said. 
Contact Carolina wilson at cwilso16@nd.edu 

her on how, apart from rec-will, to the vice president for able with their identity,” he peer, not tied down to an in­ognizing a student organiza-Student Affairs,” Dunn said. said. “[In a GSA], identity is stitutionalized office.” 
GSA tion, the University could do Core Council works with or-less important because it’s for Hnatusko, who is respon­
a better job serving LGBTQ ganizations across campus to LGBT people, and question-sible for making the final de­continued from page 1 students. In 1996, this com-raise awareness and educate ing people and allies. You can cision regarding prospective 
mittee’s recommendations led the community about LGBTQ perhaps choose which one you clubs, said the GSA applica­puts it at around 15 times. to a standing committee com-issues. It also hosts a month-want to identify as. tion is one of 22 applications University representatives prised of faculty, administra-ly coffee where students can “And I would say at Notre for new clubs SAO received by could not confirm or deny this tion members and students to get together to be social and Dame, that is particularly im-the deadline last week. number, advise the Vice President of monthly discussion groups re-portant.” As the first step in the ap-
The first request on record Student Affairs on how to ad-garding LGBTQ issues, Dunn proval process, Hnatusko said dates back to 1986, when a dress LGBTQ student needs. said. AllianceND she will review each proposed group called Gays and Les-In 1997, the University add-This year, Core Council was This year’s application for a club and look at a number of bians at Notre Dame/Saint ed a Spirit of Inclusion to its given its own space in LaFor-GSA comes from an unofficial factors related to the club’s Mary’s College (GLND/SMC) student handbook, du Lac. It tune, and it now hosts Safe club, AllianceND, which meets purpose, proposed activi­asked for club status. Student states that Notre Dame wel-Space hours several nights biweekly, Costanzo said. ties and feasibility. The club Affairs denied the request, comes LGBTQ students and a week, where students can The application comes after must also be consistent with according to rejection letters. seeks to create an environ-come in to talk or simply hang Student Senate passed a reso-the University’s mission and 
“It is our judgment that for-ment of “in which none are out. lution last month asking the Catholic teaching, according mal recognition of GLND/SMC strangers and all may flour-“We’re definitely in a good University to give club status to du Lac. carries with it an implicit ish.” position of growth phase to a GSA and in the wake of “That’s usually where it’s sanction for a homosexual “We value gay and lesbian now,” Dunn said. a video released last week by been killed,” Costanzo said. lifestyle which is not in keep-members of this community Dunn said Core Council dif-the 4 to 5 Movement, which Hnatusko said this process ing with the values of the Uni-as we value all members of fers from a GSA in its compo-advocates for an improved can take several weeks, but versity or the teachings of the this community,” it states. sition and nature. environment of inclusion for if the club meets University Church,” according to an ex-“We condemn harassment of “Some of the more pasto-LGBTQ students, faculty and standards for recognition, it cerpt from the 1986 letter. any kind, and University poli-ral needs are met by the Core staff. is sent to a branch of student 
The next request came cies proscribe it.” Council’s structure,” she said. “There is just a lot of ener-government for approval. in 1992, when SAO denied By 2006, the standing com-“Sometimes there is an ebb gy and excitement in how we She said SAO will send let­GLND/SMC club status based mittee morphed into the Core and flow to student groups can continue the remarkable ters regarding the status of on the 1986 decision, ac-Council, which is the Univer-that are only run by students progress that’s been made in proposed student clubs after cording to a copy of the re-sity sanctioned structure in … Part of the reasoning in expanding inclusion at Notre all 22 have been reviewed, jection letter. That decision place today, Hnatusko said. coming up with this sort of Dame,” McCormick, student which must be finished by the was appealed, and then-Vice Most recently, applications structure is that there would body president, said. end of next semester. President for Student Affairs for club status have been for a be some stability.” Costanzo said the current If approved, Costanzo said Patricia O’Hara upheld the re-GSA, rather than a group for Senior Jason G’Sell, who proposal strived to work with-AllianceND would be like any jection. LGBTQ students alone. Hna-serves as co-chair with Dunn, in the standards of the Uni-other student club. 
“And then it blew up,” tusko said since she took her said from the perspective of a versity and Church teaching. “We could flier. We could Costanzo said. “In 1993 and position in 2007, there have gay student, the Core Council “There’s been this long have our own events … We 1994 this became like the been four applications for a does not eliminate the need standing perception or mis-were kind of thinking of hav-Viewpoint war. And then 1995 GSA.  for a GSA. understanding that we are a ing a service component to was when it really reached fe-“Frequently, they say the certain type of group of stu-the GSA too,” he said. “We ver pitch.” Room to work together Core Council is doing what the dents and that we are seeking could get out into the campus 
In 1995, student govern-Over the years, the Univer-GSA is doing. We could have a to get this approved for it to to change the culture. So in ment’s Campus Life Coun-sity has expressed a desire thousand Core Councils and be like a locus of sinful inter-that sense, it’s proactive, but cil (CLC) passed a resolution to meet the needs of LGBTQ that wouldn’t be enough,” he action between students,” he it’s not activist-y.” asking the University to rec-students, but in a way that is said. “There will never be said. “We’re going to be sub-McCormick said the time is ognize GLND/SMC. The by-consistent with Church teach-enough [safe] space.” ject to the same standards right to approve a GSA. laws of CLC required O’Hara ing. Core Council has become G’Sell said a GSA could pro-and scrutiny as every other “There is no better time. to publicly respond to its re-the University’s primary re-vide an option for students student club if we’re approved We’ve had progress for so quest. source to do so. who do not like Core Council … We’re trying to make it many years now,” he said. 
In an open letter to the As an advisory board for events, as well as appeal to clear that we’ll work within “Why not continue that? Why Notre Dame community, the Vice President of Student students who are less com-the boundaries [of Church not continue this march for-O’Hara denied the request Affairs, Core Council is com-fortable with their sexuality. teaching.]” ward?” because the University did prised of four administrators “There’s a conception that Costanzo said if approved, not think granting GLND/SMC and eight students, the major-if you walk into our events, AllianceND would not seek to The second installment of club status was the “appropri-ity of whom must identify as it’s like you’re going to have usurp the responsibilities of this series will examine stu­ate means to the agreed upon LGTBQ, said co-chair Sr. Sue a rainbow flag stamped onto Core Council. Rather, it would dents’ experiences coming out end of building a supportive Dunn. your forehead, [that] you’re complement the structures al-at Notre Dame. It will run in environment for our gay and “We’re not a club, and that’s outing yourself to the world ready in place. Tuesday’s Observer. lesbian students.” a great distinction to make, and everyone’s going to know, He said Core Council is “a 
Instead, O’Hara created an because we answer directly and that’s scary for people static hub of support,” where-Contact Sarah Mervosh at         ad hoc committee to advise to, as an advisory group if you who aren’t really comfort-as a GSA would be “peer to smervosh@nd.edu 
Severe weather wounds Midwest 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. — An In­diana toddler found in a field after violent tornadoes died Sunday after being taken off life support, ending a hope­ful tale for survivors in the Midwest and South picking through the storms’ devasta­tion. 
Fifteen-month-old Angel Babcock of New Pekin, Ind., was found after her family’s mobile home was destroyed in Friday’s storms. Her fa­ther, mother and two siblings were killed. 
When Angel arrived at Ko­sair Children’s Hospital in Louisville Friday night, she was opening her eyes — a hopeful sign, chief nursing officer Cis Gruebbel said. 
Things turned on Satur­day, when the swelling in her brain didn’t decrease, he said. As the day went on, her eyes ceased to move and she continued to deteriorate. There was no sign of brain activity. 
Medical staff told the fam­ily there wasn’t anything more they could do. With ex­tended family gathered to say goodbye, the family made the decision to end life support on Sunday. 
“Angel has been reunited with her parents,” her grand­father, Jack Brough, said in a statement. “We want to thank God for all of you and for your thoughts and prayers. God will bring you and all of us out of this. This is what it will take. All should look to God.” 
The girl’s death brings the overall toll from Friday’s storms to 39 across five states. Rescuers were still go­ing door-to-door in rural ar­eas to rule out more victims. Another round of storms ear­lier last week killed 13 peo­ple in the Midwest and South, the latest in a string of se­vere-weather episodes ravag­ing the American heartland in the past year. 


On Sunday, people gathered to worship, comb through piles of debris and learn what happened to loved ones and friends, often without modern technology to help. 
Cellphone signals were hard to find, Internet was out and electricity indefinitely interrupted. In many cases, word-of-mouth conversa­tions replaced text messages, Facebook status updates and phone calls. 
“It’s horrible. It’s things you take for granted that aren’t there anymore,” said Jack Cleveland, 50, a Census Bureau worker from Hen­ryville, Ind. 
Company ends support for Limbaugh’s show 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A flower com­pany is the seventh advertiser to pull its ads from conser­vative talk show host Rush Limbaugh’s radio program in reaction to his derogatory com­ments about a law student who testified about birth control policy. 
ProFlowers said Sunday on its Facebook page that it has suspended advertising on Lim­baugh’s program because his comments about Georgetown University student Sandra Fluke “went beyond political discourse to a personal attack and do not reflect our values as a company.” 
The six other advertisers that say they have pulled ads from his show are mortgage lender Quicken Loans, mat­tress retailers Sleep Train and Sleep Number, software maker Citrix Systems Inc., online data backup service provider Carbo­nite and online legal document services company LegalZoom. 
ProFlowers had said on Twit­ter that posts it received about Limbaugh’s remarks affected its advertising strategy. Pro-Flowers is an online flower de­livery service. 
Limbaugh called the 30-year-old Fluke a “slut” and “prostitute” last week after she testified to congressional Democrats in support of na­tional health care policies that would compel employers and other organizations, including her university, to offer group health insurance that covers birth control for women. 
He apologized to Fluke on Saturday after being criticized by Republican and Democratic politicians and after several advertisers left the show. 
Clear Channel’s Premiere Radio Networks Inc. hosts Limbaugh’s program, one of the country’s most popular talk radio shows. The company is supporting Limbaugh, whose on-air contract with Premiere runs through 2016. 
“The contraception debate is one that sparks strong emotion and opinions on both sides of the issue,” Premiere Networks said in a statement emailed Sunday by spokeswoman Ra­chel Nelson. “We respect the right of Mr. Limbaugh, as well as the rights of those who dis­agree with him, to express those opinions.” 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, March 5, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 



We do this for you 
Every year on the last Monday before spring break, you read a column from the new Editor-in-Chief expressing how much he or she cares about you, the reader. 
That column usually expresses the idea that the readers are really why we spend so many hours at The Observer sacrific­ing our social lives, sleep schedules and grades. 

This is that col­umn, and it’s going to say the same thing — because we mean it. In all honesty, what we do doesn’t matter if it wasn’t for you. We don’t stay up till 6:30 a.m. perfecting the last Irish Insider of the football season — a 32­page behemoth — because we enjoy it. Far from it, in fact. We do it because we know you appreciate the stories of each senior on the football team, from the senior captain to the hardworking walk-on. We don’t wait till midnight to get student-body-president election results (and then write an article on them) because we don’t have anything better to do. We do it because we think you should know what’s happening on campus. 
We don’t spend weeks unraveling the effect of national policy on Notre Dame or exploring Fr. Jenkins’s relationship with the White House because that will help us get good grades. We do it because we feel no one deserves to understand Notre Dame’s unique role in the national con­versation more than the students who live here every day. 
So yes, we in the basement of South Dining Hall really do work for you, our readers. That’s why I’m so excited to serve as Editor-in-Chief for the next 12 months. I get to work with an extremely talented and dedicated staff who understands what we’re all about. Nothing could motivate me more. 
While we love what we do, we also rec­ognize there’s always room for improve­ment. We’re constantly looking for ways to bring you the news that matters to you in convenient ways. Over the last year, we’ve launched a mobile app for iPhone and Android and we’ve redesigned our website to be cleaner and more user-friendly. 
But we won’t stop there. Over the next year, we’ll be making more changes to the way we do things. Some of them will be major and some will be little tweaks. Some will be highly visible to you and some you won’t ever see. All of those changes, how­ever, will be made with one goal in mind: to bring you the best possible coverage we can bring you. 
In return, I just ask one thing: let us know how we’re doing. If you love a story we publish, let us know. Email the writer, post it on Facebook or retweet it. If you didn’t like a story, let us know. Email me. If you’ve got suggestions to improve anything we do — really, anything at all — let us know. Pick up the phone and call, or just write us a letter. We thrive on your feed­back, whether positive or negative. 
There’s a reason my contact information will be listed on page 2 of this newspaper for the next 12 months. Don’t ever hesi­tate to contact me. Calls and emails are preferred, as I suspect carrier pigeons will have trouble finding our subterranean offices. I’d love to hear from you, and I’m going to love making The Observer better for you. 
Contact Allan Joseph at      ajoseph2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Cheers to a sustainable 
spring break 

While some of you have been plan- Travelocity actually has a whole  do to reduce your footprint is really  
ning spring break since October,  website dedicated to green travel. As  unending.  
when the winter weather set in, oth­ part of their Travel for Good cam- Eat at local restaurants that source  
ers of you I’m sure are scrambling to  paign, they offer tips on green trans- their food nearby, use public trans- 
throw something together in the next  port, suggestions for voluntourism,  port or rent a hybrid car. It really  
four days.  and a green hotel directory of their  doesn’t take much work to celebrate  
Well, luckily Anna Gorman  own.  your break sustainably.  
for you, I have  These are just two of the big names  Also, before you leave campus,  
two fantastic Ask the GreenMan  that pop up when you search Google;  don’t forget to turn off your lights and  
ideas: ecotour­ there are a dozen others as well!  unplug your appliances. The Quad  
ism and voluntourism.  If you can’t find a registered green  Energy Competition is starting up and  
Ecotourism focuses on low-impact  hotel, don’t be too upset, there are  those are quick and easy ways to put  
travel and activity in a natural envi­ still many things you can do on your  your team ahead.  
ronment, while voluntourism is more  own to make a difference.  Keep in mind it’s actually a nation- 
about traveling to a destination and  For instance, request paperless  al competition, and we want Notre  
volunteering for a cause.  billing. Or you could always reuse  Dame to look good.  
I promise you it’s much more excit­ your towels and sheets instead of  So, in summary, wherever you are  
ing than it might initially sound. As a  asking for new each day.  or wherever you’re going this spring  
type of ecotourism, you could take off  Every little bit helps when it comes  break, go green, stay green, be  
to Belize and kayak among deserted  to energy and water, and honestly, if  green.  
coral islands or dive with whale  you’re getting your sheets that dirty  Cheers!  
sharks.  after one night, I’m a little bit con- 
For voluntourism, you could travel  cerned for you.  Email your predicaments to The  
to Cambodia and teach English to  If neither of those options seems  GreenMan at  
children. These ideas may seem ex- particularly appealing, you could try  askthegreenman@gmail.com and let  
treme, but really, why not?  exercising outdoors instead of using  him answer you with a sustainable  
Even for those of you who already  their gym, or opting out of a morning  twist. The GreenMan will be here  
have plans, there are still plenty of  paper.  every other week to provide you with  
opportunities to go eco-friendly. If  Turning off the lights when you  insights you never knew you were  
you haven’t picked your hotel yet, look  leave the room is always classy, as  missing out on until now.  
online at greenhotels.com for a list  is keeping the heat and AC within  The views expressed in this column  
of registered eco-friendly lodgings by  reason.  are those of the author and not  
state.  The list of the little things you can  necessarily those of The Observer.  

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A call for respectful dialogue 
For several weeks now, I’ve sat by and quietly read the ongoing debate over the HHS regulation requiring employers to provide preventative services for women. Both sides have been engaged in spirited dialogue, however, the last article written, “Notre Dame and the Catholic conscience,” Feb. 28, represents the dangerous kind of digression we see in politics all too often. 
The recent compromise President Obama announced doesn’t exactly solve the problem for Notre Dame since the University self-insures, but the critics at this point seem unwilling to accept any compromise unless the legislation is tailored precisely at Notre Dame’s convenience. 
Yet, Notre Dame is not the center of the universe. 
We are unincorporated Notre Dame, Ind., located in the United States of America, a democracy where compromise is the essence of getting anything accomplished. 
Ms. Ratiu’s article is not an attempt at compromise, but an example of the “angry screaming” she claims to reject. While changes may have to be made as to how preventive services for women are to be provided, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which will aim to reduce the amount of uninsured and increase the insurance coverage for those with pre-existing conditions, is hardly fostering a “culture of death.” 
Yet, more troubling is the author’s overstated insinuation that the future of Roman Catholicism somehow hangs in the balance with Fr. Jenkins’s decision. 
If anything, Fr. Jenkins demonstrates the need to address our grievances with the government with a willingness to engage in respectful dialogue. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown talked about Fr. Jenkins’s approach in a recent Observer story, saying Fr. Jen­kins believes “you can’t change society unless you persuade people, and you can’t persuade them unless you engage them in a respectful way.” 
In paraphrasing Aristotle, Ms. Ratiu should have noted that Aristotle considered politics a balance of competing in­terests in which people with diverse opinions are forced to understand viewpoints different from their own. 
Thus, politics is more than simply overpowering the other side and attempts at exploiting overstated language to demonize the other side does not play into this vision. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I hate quotations. Tell me what you know.” 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
U.S. essayist and poet 

Matthew Mleczko 
freshman Dillon Hall March 4 
WEEKLY POLL 
What are you doing for spring break? 
Visiting friends Going home Celebrating St. Patrick’s Day Going on a cruise 
Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Monday, March 5, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Bringing out the best of me 
I turned 22 this weekend and unfor­tunately it was only slightly less the hot mess that was my 21st birthday. 
However, as I look back on this week­end, the best times didn’t involve vodka or Dee Tian tequila. The best times were when I came Confessions home from class to find of a Christian that my roommates had Party Girl decorated the house and my room with streamers and bal­loons. 
It was when I received gifts of huge collages containing photos from the past year. It was when I went out to dinner for hibachi with 15 of my closest friends. It was when my best guy friends performed a song they wrote for me like they do every year. These were the moments that I was happiest. And even more important than feeling happy, I felt fulfilled. 
Similarly, as I look back at my four years at Notre Dame, my most fulfill­ing memories don’t involve partying or drinking. They involve the kindness and generosity my friends and family have extended to me and the times when I was able to give to others without expecting anything in return. 
I believe we feel the most fulfilled and joyful when either we are being our best selves, or those around us are being their best selves. So, I often wonder, what brings out the best in me? Is it when I’m wasted singing “Call Me, Maybe” at Finny’s? Is it when I’m spending late nights in the library doing Formal Logic homework? 
No. What brings out the best in me is when I am feeling and expressing God’s love. I can do this by listening to friends when they just need to vent, or discuss­ing with others how God’s been present in our lives, or by performing small acts of random kindness for strangers. In the past, during breaks, I would go to clubs or bars with my friends from home. Howev­er, with working from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and doing a rigorous workout regime named Insanity (Sean T baby), I literally had no energy for anything else. 
So, I sat on the couch with my little brother and played Sonic and Mario London Olympics on the Wii every night. Lame, you might think. But I absolutely loved it. Each break, I vow to spend more time with my family, yet I get so caught up in the excitement of reuniting with my friends, I rarely follow through. 
Yet, this break, I hung out with my 12-year-old brother more than I hung out with any of my friends combined. I actually looked forward to our couch time together. Our relationship improved tre­mendously and I feel closer to him than I ever have in the past. I was being my best self by not getting angry when he beat me at every other Wii game (which may not seem like a big deal, but I am potentially the sorest loser in the entire world). These are the times I cherish. It was much more fulfilling finding that connection with my brother than in going out and getting wasted every other night. 
These past few weekends, I have found myself thinking, “What’s the point?” It’s not that I have stopped enjoying drinking or partying, but sometimes, the act seems shallow. 
I remember a ResLife employee once asked me the same thing. I looked at her like she had five heads. The point? Well, to have fun, of course. Yet recently I’ve been craving something more than that. Something deeper, more fulfilling. 
Of course, I still love playing drinking games, tailgating and going to bars, but I’m finally beginning to understand that these activities are not what define col­lege. 
The friendships I’ve made, the challeng­es I’ve overcome, and most importantly, the faith I’ve rediscovered and strength­ened is what has defined my college expe­rience. What has defined yours? 
Dee Tian is a senior marketing major with minors in philosophy and anthropology. She can be reached at ytian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Everything’s in a meme 
Dear Bill Shields (“What’s in a meme?” March 1), 
Memes should not be looked at as just rehashing of ideas, of “dehumanizing and impersonal” pictures that become one common theme for people. While memes of a certain image macro are similar in content, each individual picture shows a complaint on society that that person has. 
Imagine a world where the verbal complaint of one person is squashed because it is too similar to the views of thousands, even millions, of other people. What would come of that world? How would the voice of a person be heard? Each person of those thousands, because their view is similar to a multitude of others, shall be quashed and looked at as repetitive. People will be too afraid to speak out against the common evils inherent in so much of our world. 
In the same manner, memes are a useful way to express the views of those who are too afraid to speak out. If I could get my voice out there as a meme, I might feel that my voice mattered more than other means. People understand that there are others like them, while they can say what needs to be said in an individualistic manner. Sometimes, readers need to follow the advice of Courage Wolf, “Find the line, and cross it.” I believe that this quote sums up all that is good in memes. People able to get their views out to the people, despite being thought of as over the line by some critics. 
These memes also contribute to a discussion. It opens people to others’ views and gives others the chance to respond by creating their own response meme. Memes are a cultural icon for the Internet generation. It is our way of showing that people have a voice, and we will use it. Any age, race, creed or nationality can create these memes, creating a better dialogue among all people. Bill Shields, I urge you to go to any meme site and go through the memes. It would be very enlightening. 
Chris Mathew 
senior Stanford Hall March 2 

Dining hall double standard 
It is a recurring event every spring when students begin to gripe about the lack of meat op­tions being served by the dining halls. In all fairness, the University is a Catholic institution. As such, it is reasonable to consider that it may be the University’s vocation to uphold the Catholic teachings pertaining to the observation of Lent. From this standpoint, the University has every right not to offer meat at the dining halls on Fridays during the Lenten season. 
Yet, something does not sit right with me; my athlete friends are able to eat a University-subsidized meal on Fridays that contains meat products. Set against the context of the dining halls taking proactive steps to refrain from serving meat to all students regardless of religious background, the fact that my athlete friends have access to meat on Fridays during the Lenten season, on behalf of the University, appears sacrilegious. 
Why should student-athletes be exempt from observing the Lenten obligations the University relentlessly imposes on the rest of the student body? I propose that if it is the stance of the Uni­versity to provide meals containing meat to the student athletes regardless of Lent, then every student at the University of Notre Dame should have the option to eat meat at the dining halls during Lent. 
Equality between students and athletes is something that I feel merits attention. The fact that student athletes are allowed to eat meat and are provided meals containing meat during Lent that are subsidized by the University, while the remainder of the student body is actively restricted from doing so on the grounds of upholding Catholic teaching is utterly ridiculous. To me, this double standard is unacceptable. If student-athletes can have access to meat, then so should the rest of the student body. 
Jia Hua Juszczak 
senior off campus March 2 
Alumni solidarity 
In the ten years since I have been a part of the Notre Dame family, I have been outraged and embarrassed by the lack of inclusion of the GLBTQ community. As a student, I had many ways to productively voice that discontent, but as an alumna I have found it challenging to find a forum to be an ally. Still, I cannot just watch from the sidelines and hope things change. Alumni, we need to help make it better because it is our moral obligation to do so. 
To show my solidarity with GLBTQ students, staff and faculty, I will not donate to the University until a GSA is recognized and until sexual-orientation is included in the non-discrimination clause. I will simply write “It needs to get better” on the mailings I receive and send them back. I know my refusal to donate will make little impact by itself. My hope is that others might do the same and as a whole we can have a voice and support those on campus working towards these goals. I hope other alumni out there will join me. 
Aislinn Doyle 
Class of ‘06 Burlington, Vt. March 4 
Removing temptation 
I would like to thank Ms. Ryan for her letter, “A Lenten proposal,” Feb. 
22. She correctly points out meat is missing from Notre Dame’s dining halls on Lenten Fridays, but remains available at other sites on campus. In addition, unhealthy foods many students gave up for Lent are still offered in the dining halls. How are students supposed to uphold their Lenten promises when bombarded by these temptations? 
I, like the most disciplined Notre Dame students, have zero capacity to make good moral decisions on my own without the guidance of a higher institution. Instant gratification governs our choices, with little consider­ation of the consequences. I second Ms. Ryan’s proposal for all unhealthy foods removed from campus for the duration of Lent, so that students may have a chance in upholding Lenten promises. It should be eliminated from campus year-round so that students might lead healthier lives. 
That being said, it would be unfair to dwell exclusively on the Univer­sity’s shortcomings in supporting good choices. Fortunately, Notre Dame has been quite thorough in controlling key facets of dorm life that would otherwise present dangerous temptations. Without parietals, students would be overwhelmed by sexual temptation. That students of oppo­site sexes would want to do anything  after 2 a.m. besides hook up is so remote, it’s not even worth considering. If not for the bans on hard liquor and drinking games, students would be vomiting from overconsumption several times a week. Luckily, Notre Dame has our backs. 
Some students bristle at all of the restrictions, but I feel nothing but gratitude. I am optimistic our University will reform its Lenten food policy to shield students from their own weakness. 
Deferring my own moral decisions to a larger institution’s wisdom has proven beneficial for me. For this reason, I am puzzled as to why Notre Dame is opposed to the regulations regarding contraceptive insurance coverage. Our University blesses us with its caring yet forceful guidance. 
Why wouldn’t it want to enjoy the same benefits thanks to the govern­ment? 
Brad Wright 
senior St. Edward’s Hall March 4 



Breakfast is the most Irish Guard members deco-important meal of the day. rate the walls. Luckily, Flat Top Grill is here Flat Top, for those who to help have never eaten at this you start 
fantastic restaurant, is an a weekend 
Asian-inspired, create-morning 
your-own stir-fry grill. You off on the 
pick the ingredients in your right foot. 
stir-fry, from the meat to the The Chica­
vegetables to the sauce. The go-based 
chefs then cook it up for you chain 
and serve it with delicious offers a 
roti bread. You can go up as create-many times as you want for your-own more food. omelet, Breakfast at Flat Top is a pancake similar affair. You choose and French from an omelet, egg-white toast bar omelet, scramble, French more varied and the portions every Sat-toast and pancakes. And then are larger. The omelets at urday and Sunday from 9 to you choose your toppings. For Flat Top are bursting with 11 a.m. example, you could make a cheese, meat, vegetables and 



Flat Top breakfast is a scramble with spinach, black anything else you want in it. hidden gem of South Bend. beans, sausage and tomatoes. The pancakes are the size of Although 9 to 11 a.m. is early Or top your pancakes with a large plate and deliciously for a weekend morning, it is chocolate chips, strawberries fluffy. And Flat Top has worth the early wake-up. The and almonds. Gummy bears strawberries every morn-portions are generous, the are also available for the ing, not just select mornings ingredients are fresh and the very adventurous. before 8 a.m. service is warm and wel-While Flat Top breakfast Flat Top is also a great way coming. And Flat Top really may just sound like a slightly to break a dining hall rut. knows how to cater to their classier version of dining While the dining hall is an audience with their decora-hall brunch, it’s much more easy option, it’s even easier tions. Murals of the dome and than that. The options are to get bored and lose interest 
in trying new things. In the dining hall, you usually make the same sandwich or get the same omelet for breakfast. Flat Top is a fun experience for you and your friends and a great way to experiment with your breakfast. 
And the best part? Break­fast at Flat Top is unlimited. You can go up as many times will be worth it. A as you want for more deli-tip for those who cious eggs or fluffy pancakes. choose the French And if you don’t eat all of it, toast option: you can take it home, free Sprinkle a little of charge. Usually, Flat Top brown sugar on it charges extra for to-go boxes, for a little extra but not for breakfast. So you sweet delicious-can turn your breakfast into ness. leftovers for lunch or break­fast the next day. You can’t do The views in this that at the dining hall. column are those of 
So when you get back from the author and not spring break, put Flat Top necessarily those breakfast on your weekend of The Observer. to-do list. Find a friend with Contact Mary a car and set your alarm a Claire O’Donnell at little earlier than usual. It modonne5@nd.edu 



MAIJA  GUSTIN/The Observer 

DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 


Monday, March 5, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

MARIA FERNANDEZ /The Observer 
By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Spotted: Hannah Ziegler Where: The Huddle 
Hannah is embracing midterms with style! Her sheer beige blouse with black details combines perfectly with her dark-washed jeans and gray ankle boots. She looks chic yet relaxed to study in LaFortune with friends. Hannah also made a great choice of accessories. Her flower-shaped earrings, simple necklace and trendy bracelets definitely complete the outfit. 

By BRENNA WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 
For the last five years, the Notre Dame Student Stand-ups Club has been giving students a stage on which to joke about relationships, childhood, annoyances and every other aspect of their lives. While sacrilege and misogyny are not things we often find fit to laugh at, it sometimes takes a comedic per­spective to paint an accurate pic­ture of the way these issues play out in front of us. 
Student Stand-ups President se­nior Tommy Maranges, said the club was a welcome addition. 
“Before we were an official club, Legends had student stand-up nights where they invited students to perform. After a few years of that gig, several of the regulars decided to make an official club,” Maranges said. 
The club has grown from sever­al original members to about 20. To prepare for a show, they hold workshops to develop material and decide who will perform. The workshops are an important place for the members to get feedback from their peers. 
Sophomore member Shelly Kim sees tremendous value in the workshop process. 
“If it were not the workshops, my comedy would have hardly devel­oped from freshman year. I’m not sure what comedians do without a community as supportive and helpful as Student Stand-ups,” she said. 
The workshop process varies depending on the venue in which they perform. Some venues, like Legends, offer the club a limited amount of time. In those cases, based on each comedian’s level of comfort and preparedness at the final workshop, Maranges and club Vice President junior Bobby Reich­le sometimes have to make tough decisions about who will perform one of the seven-minute sets. 
Student Stand-ups is a safe place for students looking to strengthen their funny bone. After sitting in on several workshops and seeing how the members interact and support each other, it becomes evident that when you walk into a workshop, it’s safe to leave your fears at the door. 
“The club has a very relaxed cul­ture, and it’s very important for me to preserve that. I don’t want the club to become a sort of ‘comic mill’ that focuses entirely on get­ting as many people through as possible, or a clique that rejects anyone who isn’t good enough or the right type of funny,” Maranges said. 
The comedians themselves are extremely diverse, coming from a variety of experience levels, ma­jors, and years. Maranges enjoys the diversity. 
“It definitely opens up the pos­sibilities for any particular work­shop. I think we’re a better group and the members are all better comics because of that diversity — at workshops we get to have gen­uinely interesting conversations about boundaries and culture that I’m really grateful for.” 
Inspiration for each performer comes from a variety of places. Alex Dragicevich, a sophomore who is new to the club, has quite an involved writing process. 
“When I write jokes, I write for an hour or so,” he said. “Then I re­read them. After that, I bang my head against a wall and continue to self-loath for an hour or two, perform for my friends and then the club to see what I should keep.” 
Even though the Student Stand-ups often perform with and are mistaken for the Humor Artists, the improvisational comedy group on campus, the art of stand-up flexes different comedic muscles. There’s something intimate about preparing stories ahead of time and being the only person in the spotlight for a chance at seven minutes of fame. 
Doing stand-up comedy has been an extremely rewarding experi­ence for the students involved. “The best feeling on stage is when you can’t continue onto your next joke just yet because you have to wait for your audience to finish laughing at the one you just told,” Kim said. 
If you’ve ever wanted to try your hand at comedy, but never knew where to begin, Student Stand-ups is a great place to start, Maranges said. 
“People who start fresh with us improve in leaps and bounds. Hav­ing a group of experienced, really funny people giving you feedback on how to become better is really helpful,” he said. “All you really need are some ideas you think are funny and the willingness to take feedback and practice.” 
The Student Stand-ups of Notre Dame can be reached at standup@nd.edu for those inter­ested in joining or attending an upcoming show. 
Contact Brenna williams at               bwillia9@nd.edu 

Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NCAA tournament is new beginning for sports 
It’s that time of year again — finally. 
February is sports winter. After the Super Bowl, there’s little to tide us over, as Andrew Owens astutely pointed out in his column last week. Sure, there’s the occasional college basketball thriller, but we’re more likely to watch conference races spiral to their inevitable conclusions. Yeah, the NBA is on, but when Jeremy Lin sparks two weeks of rabid conversa­tion, we’re a little bored. Base­ball is just waking up from its dormant winter, and football is so far away we’re talking about NASCAR. I mean, seriously. 

NASCAR. 
But all that is about to change, because it’s that time of year again. 
March Madness is about to hit us. First, we have the ever-entertaining conference champion­ships as a nice ap­petizer, highlighted by the ever­unpredict­able Big East one game, the computer tuned to another and the iPad to a third. And yet, we seem to miss at least one shining moment 

— though never “One Shining Moment” — each year. 
It’s a lot of fun, yet it’s not the only reason this time of year is great. 
In one of the most under-appreciated postseasons in sports, college hockey begins its mad sprint to the Frozen Four. All it takes is a hot goalie for a struggling team to reach the pinnacle, while even the 
slightest unlucky bounce to 
knock the heavy favorite out of 
contention. Let’s not even get 
started on overtime hockey, 
which is one of the most sus­

penseful events in sports — especially when entire seasons are on the line. 
Yet, there’s more. 
College football players 

around the country head to spring practice, and while it isn’t quite the same as the fall, 
March Madness is about to hit us. First, we have the ever-entertaining conference championships as a nice appetizer, highlighted by the ever-unpredictable Big East tournament from Madison Square Garden. For five days, the world’s most famous basketball arena is home to high drama, as bubble teams fight for the right to keep playing, while struggling teams try to seize their opportunity to be remembered. 
tournament from Madison Square Garden. For five days, the world’s most famous bas­ketball arena is home to high drama, as bubble teams fight for the right to keep playing, while struggling teams try to seize their opportunity to be remembered. 
After that wild end to the season — and many sleepless nights for ESPN ‘bracketologist’ Joe Lunardi — Selection Sun­day hits, and 65 (oops, make that 68) teams begin dream­ing of cutting down nets. We fill out our brackets, then tear them up and start all over right before our bracket pool’s dead­line — then tear them up when teams like Northern Iowa, VCU and George Mason blow them to smithereens anyway. 
We root for Cinderella, un­less she’s playing our favorite team. We have the TV tuned to spring offers a tease of the season ahead, awaking dor­mant memo­ries with each crack of the pads. Plus, spring game tailgates mean we all get an excuse to shake the rust off our grilling skills before the summer ahead. 
And let’s not forget perhaps the most impor­tant part of 

March: baseball is back. 
Sunbirds in Florida and Arizona get to see their favorite teams all in one place, as the Grapefruit and Cactus Leagues get underway, accompanied by the sound of bat meeting ball, the smell of freshly cut grass and the promise of a new sea­son and pennant race ahead. 
The NBA playoffs are around the corner, and the Masters loom for Tiger Woods and golf fans while Jim Nantz practices his hushed voice. 
Yes, it’s that time of year again. Soak it up and enjoy it. It doesn’t get much better than this. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu.
   The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles dominate on the road 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles topped Olivet Col­lege 8-1 on Sunday to record their first win of the season. 
The Belles (1-1) defeated Olivet (1-1) handedly behind a sweep of all three of their doubles matchups. Sophomore Margaret Boden and freshman Jackie Kjolhede swept their doubles match, while the dou­bles teams of sophomore Mary Catherine Faller and freshman Audrey Kiefer and freshmen Shannon Elliot and Kayle Sex­ton also brought home wins. 
The Belles’ dominance con­tinued to the singles matches, as they won all but the No. 4 sin­gles match. Boden and Kjolhede led the singles victories as well, as they both managed to sweep their individual matches. Fall­er, the Belles top singles player, won in a straight set, while Sex­ton and Elliot managed to pull out wins in super tiebreakers. “Overall, it was a good per­formance in our first confer­ence match,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “It was a match we were really hoping to win. It’s nice to have that first confer­ence match in the win column.” 
Two weeks ago, the Belles suffered a tough loss in their season opener to Case Western, 9-0, yet, the Belles bounced back Sunday, showing their mental toughness. This toughness was also visible on a smaller scale throughout the day. According to Campbell, the wins by Sexton and Elliot impressed him. 
“[Sunday] there were some tight matches, and those tight matches came through,” Camp­bell said. “It showed me that we have a team that will fight in a close situation and hang tough.” 
Despite its youth, Saint Mary’s showed a competitive drive and toughness representative of ath­letes mature beyond their years, Campbell said. 
“It was good to see that tough­ness and how well we fared,” he said. 
The confidence from getting their first win goes beyond the coaching staff, Campbell said. 
“They are excited after start­ing off with such a tough open­ing match,” Campbell said. “They’re excited just to play a reasonable game in a confer­ence match and to get that first conference win.” 
The Belles don’t have much time to soak in this dominant victory as they host Indiana Tech at 6 p.m. Tuesday at Notre Dame’s Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish struggle against Blue Devils 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
After a dominating 7-0 win over Iowa on Friday, the Irish lost a tough matchup against Duke on Saturday, falling to the Blue Devils 6-1. 
The No. 17 Irish (9-4) started off the day strongly against No. 3 Duke (10-1), se­curing the doubles point with victories from No. 2 seniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews and sophomores Britney Sanders and Julie Sa­bacinski. Both doubles pair­ings defeated ranked oppo­nents. 
Notre Dame was unable to keep its momentum up head­ing into singles play. All six Irish competitors lost their 
matches, though  the  scores  
were close.  
“Duke  has  a  very  strong  

singles lineup and we knew that going into singles,” Saba­cinski said. “All of our match­es were tight with them and many of them could have gone either way.” 
Mathews fell 7-6 (7-4), 6-2 to Duke’s Beatrice Capra, ranked second in the nation in singles. Frilling dropped her match to Hanna Mar 6-4, 6-2, and three other members of the Irish team fell to simi­larly ranked opponents. 
The loss to Duke marked an end to the four-game winning streak the Irish had extended against Iowa (4-3) the day be­fore. Notre Dame was flaw-less for the fourth time this season, winning every match in both singles and doubles throughout the day. Each game was won in straight sets, with the exception of Mathew’s contest against Sonja Molnar, which Mathews won 6-1, 6-7 (5-6), 1-0 (10-6). 

Sabacinski and Sanders were highlights of the week­end, bringing their doubles record to 5-1. Sabacinski, who played with Sanders be­fore to coming to Notre Dame, said the success the pairing has found is not surprising. 
“Our game styles comple­ment each other well,” Sa­bacinski said. “We have con­fidence in one another and really enjoy playing together.” 
Notre Dame will use the break to take on four oppo­nents in Honolulu. Sabacin­ski said she and her team will look to put their match against Duke behind him in favor of the competition ahead. 
“We need to look at every­thing positive that came out of the matches this weekend and use it to build our con­fidence for our upcoming matches,” she said. 
The Irish will take the court in Honolulu on March 12 against Texas Tech at 5 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The CLASSIFIEDS Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Top 24 Scorers in NHL History 5 Marcel Dionne 10 Phil Esposito 15 Bryan Trottier 20 Luc Robitaille PERSONAL 1348 gms 1771 pts 1.31 pts/gm 1282 gms 1590 pts 1.24 pts/gm 1279 gms 1425 pts 1.11 pts/gm 1431 gms 1394 pts 0.97 pts/gm 1 Wayne Gretzky 6 Steve Yzerman 11 Ray Bourque 16 Adam Oates 21 Brett Hull UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 1487 gms 2857 pts 1.92 pts/gm 1514 gms 1755 pts 1.16 pts/gm 1612  gms 1579 pts 0.98 pts/gm 1337 gms 1420 pts 1.06 pts/gm 1269 gms 1391 pts 1.10 pts/gm Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources 2 Mark Messier 7 Mario Lemieux 12 Mark Recchi 17 Doug Gilmour 22 Mike Modano in place to assist you. If you 1756 gms 1887 pts 1.07 pts/gm 915 gms 1723 pts 1.88 pts/gm 1652 gms 1533 pts 0.93 pts/gm 1474 gms 1414 pts 0.96 pts/gm 1499 gms 1374 pts 0.92 pts/gm or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, 3 Gordie Howe 8 Joe Sakic 13 Paul Coffey 18 Dale Hawerchuk 23 Johnny Bucyk please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. 1767 gms  1850 pts 1.05 pts/gm 1378 gms 1641 pts 1.19 pts/gm 1409 gms 1531 pts 1.09 pts/gm 1188 gms 1409 pts 1.19 pts/gm 1540 gms 1369 pts 0.89 pts/gm For more information, visit ND’s website at: http:// 4 Ron Francis 9 Jaromir Jagr 14 Stan Mikita 19 Jari Kurri 24 Brendan Shanahan pregnancysupport@nd.edu 1731 gms 1798 pts 1.04 pts/gm 1273 gms 1599 pts 1.26 pts/gm 1394 gms 1467 pts 1.05pts/gm 1251 gms 1398 pts 1.12 pts/gm 1524 gms 1354 pts 0.89 pts/gm  

MEN’S TENNIS 

ND defeats Maryland after loss to Ohio St. 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame ended the week­end with many individual suc­cesses in the Eck Tennis Pavil­ion, closing with a 5-2 loss to No. 2 Ohio State and a 5-2 win over Maryland, bringing the Irish to 12-6 overall, boasting a record of 8-2 at home. 
The Buckeyes proved their status as second best in the country Saturday morning, but the Irish did not go down with­out a fight. With six ranked members in the singles posi­tion — No. 6 Blaz Rola and two ranked doubles teams — in­cluding No. 1 Blaz Rola and Chase Buchanan, the Buckeyes came in carrying a power­ful rank. This did not stop the Irish, however, from taking two points in the match. 
The No. 2 pair of seniors Casey Watt and Niall Fitzgerald marked an exciting start to the day, taking down No. 28 ranked Devin McCarthy and Ille Van Engelen, 8-5. The 8-6 victory in the No. 3 slot from senior Sam Keeton and sophomore Billy Pe­cor clinched the doubles point for Notre Dame. 
Pecor walked away from the match with a memorable win, triumphing over No. 44 Devin McCarthy in the No. 4 singles spot 4-6, 6-3, 1-0. The win marked Pecor’s first one over a top-50 opponent in his career. 
“I’ve been playing better and better over the course of the season. I’m glad to see things are coming together,” Pecor said. 
Ohio State took each of the remaining five singles matches to close out the day. 
“We knew they were a really good team and if we were going to win we would have to play our best. We bounced back well Sunday,” Watt said. 
The Irish met the Terrapins on Sunday for the first time since 1978, when Maryland won 8-1. This time around, Notre Dame turned the tables with a 5-2 win. 
“We started off shaky against Maryland in the doubles but came back and had some very strong singles performances,” Pecor said. 
The morning began with a rough start when Notre Dame could only put together one win in doubles play. The No. 2 pair of sophomore Greg Andrews and junior Spencer Talmadge put away Maryland’s Tommy Laine and Vlad Stefan 8-5, but the combination of close match­es in the No. 1 slot for Watt and Fitzgerald and the No. 3 team of Keeton and Pecor ended in a 9-7 and 9-8 loss, respectively, costing the Irish the doubles point. 
“We had a slow start with doubles but we toughed out a couple singles matches,” Watt said. 
Following the doubles loss, the team showed no signs of hesitation to turn the match around. The Irish took five consecutive points in singles play to clinch the win. On the No. 3 court, Keeton wasted no time putting away his opponent 6-3, 6-3. Pecor and junior Blas Moros followed suit, beating Maryland’s Tommy Laine 7-5, 6-1 and Jesse Kiuru 6-3, 7-6. In the No. 1 slot, Watt recovered from a difficult first set against No. 91 Maros Horny to finish 2-6, 6-4, 7-6, bringing the Irish to an overall score of 4-1 to seal the victory. 
Andrews further progressed the Irish lead with his 6-3, 3-6, 6-4 sets in the No. 2 position. Junior Michael Moore conclud­ed the weekend in a head-to­head three sets, going 4-6, 7-5, 4-6. 
“It’s a good feeling to go into our spring break trip with a win,” Watt said. 
The Irish take a recess from competition before reconven­ing in Tampa, Fla. to face South Florida on March 17 at 1 p.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Notre Dame wins three events 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
Competing in their final home meet of the season, the Irish put up a strong showing in a record-breaking Alex Wilson Invitational at Loftus Sports Center this weekend, winning three events and notching top finishes in several others. 
The Irish men’s and women’s distance medley relay teams provided the highlight for the squad, as the men’s team placed first and the women’s team placed second in the event. Breaking the school re­cord with a time of 9:29.72, the men’s team of senior middle distance runner Johnathan Shawel, freshman sprinter Chris Geisting, senior middle distance runner Randall Babb and junior middle distance runner Jeremy Rae punched its ticket to the NCAA Indoor championships, which will be held next weekend in Nampa, Idaho. With a time of 11:04.45, the women’s team of sopho­more middle distance runner Kelly Curran, senior sprinter Natalie Geiger, junior middle distance runner Rebecca Tra­cy and sophomore middle dis­tance runner Alexa Aragon also shattered the school re­cord in the event and will find out Monday whether their time met NCAA qualifying stan­dards. 
“This is something the dis­tance medley relay teams look forward to all year long, and they did exceptionally well,” Irish coach Joe Piane said. “In the indoor season, one of our goals is to get to NCAAs, and we knew out best ticket would be through the distance med­ley.” 
Senior multi-event athlete Maddie Buttinger and senior pole vaulter Kevin Schipper continued their strong sea­son for the Irish, as they both claimed first-place finishes. Buttinger took first place in the high jump with a leap of 1.74 meters and followed it up with a second-place finish in the long jump. Schipper won the pole vault competition, break­ing his personal record with a vault of 5.40 meters. 
“Maddie and Kevin have meant a great deal to this team,” Piane said. “Maddie’s really done exceptionally well for the team this year, and Kevin has been so consistent over his four years here.” 
Buttinger and Schipper will look to take their success to the national level next, as they have both qualified for the in­door championships. Buttinger will be competing in the pen­tathlon, her signature event, while Schipper will look to earn a victory in the pole vault competition. 
The invitational, which fea­tured dozens of top college teams from across the nation, saw 10 meet records and six track records fall over its two days of competition. In addi­tion to the record-breaking men’s and women’s distance medley relay times, the Irish also broke school records in the 60-meter hurdles and the 400-meter event. Freshman hurdler Kaila Barber broke the record in the 60-meter hurdles with a time of 8.27 seconds on her way to finishing fifth in the event, while sophomore sprint­er Patrick Feeney topped the school record in the 400-meter event by a full six seconds en route to a third-place finish. 

Another top finisher for the Irish in the invitational was sophomore sprinter Aijah Urssery, who was the runner-up in the 200-meter dash event and took fifth place in the 60-meter dash. 
With the indoor season now concluded for the majority of the team, Piane said he feels confident in the team’s prog­ress heading into the outdoor season, which begins in late March. 
“I think that our progress has been great, and both teams should do exceptionally well during the outdoor sea­son,” Piane said. “But it sure is nice for most of those kids to have a break now.” 
Buttinger, Schipper and the men’s distance medley relay team will return to the track next weekend when they com­pete at the NCAA Indoor cham­pionships in Nampa, Idaho. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnett@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Irish finish second in Midwest Fencing Conference tournament 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish narrowly missed out on winning their third con­secutive Midwest Fencing Con­ference championship as they finished second to Ohio State by a score of 1,305-1,270 over the weekend. 
“As a team we didn’t lose by many points for first place over­all,” Irish coach Janusz Bednar­ski said. “There was even a mo­ment when we were leading … I’m happy with the results but I’m not satisfied fully. That is the situation we are in: We are not the best team in the country at this moment. We are trying to be the best or at least a top team and will continue to try.” 
The Irish took to the mats Saturday morning for the indi­vidual competition and came away with some top results, highlighted by three podium finishes. 
In a group of 54 fencers, a quartet of female sabreuses fin­ished in the top-10. Junior Abi­gail Nichols, junior Lian Osier, senior Beatriz Almeida and junior Kathryn Palazzoto took fifth, sixth, seventh and ninth place, respectively. 
Freshman Ashley Severson continued her stellar rookie campaign by finishing in sec­ond place in the women’s epee competition. The result marks another top performance for Severson, who claimed a bronze medal at last month’s United States Fencing Associa­tion’s National Junior Olympics. 
Fellow freshman Madison Zeiss won the female foil com­petition in a group of 60 fenc­ers. Bednarski said he was sat­isfied with the performance of his freshmen, highlighted by the top finishes from Zeiss and Severson. 
“I would say that it’s a good situation that freshmen are coming on strong,” Bednarski said. “They are showing talent, showing devotion and showing they want to be seriously taken as starters. They want to be full members of the fighting team as we get close to the NCAA championships.” 
In addition to Zeiss, the Notre Dame women continued their dominance with the foil, as five other Irish fencers came away with top-15 finishes. Sopho­mores Adriana Camacho and Rachel Beck, seniors Darsie Malynn and Radmila Sarkisova and junior Grace Hartman fin­ished fifth, eighth, 10th, 12th and 15th, respectively. 
On the men’s side, three Irish fencers finished in the top three of their respective groups. Se­nior Enzo Castellani won the gold medal in the men’s foil, edging out a trio of fencers from rival Ohio State. The win was a breakthrough for Castellani, who was the runner-up in each of the past three conference championships. 
Sophomore Michael Rossi and junior Jason Choy both finished tied for third in the epee and saber events, respectively. 
The fencers were back at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse on Sunday for the team champion­ships. 
All three men’s squads made it to the finals against Ohio State, with the sabruers and foilists winning their respec­tive competitions and the epee­ists coming in second. Bed­narski said he was pleasantly surprised by the results of the men’s squads. 
“I was happy with the saber win because they had been a little behind Ohio State,” Bed­narski said. “For the foil team, we know we have a star in Castellani and we have others who are very strong, but none­theless the foil team and saber team went a little above expec­tations. They took a lead and didn’t give it up. It was a very positive element of today’s com­petition.” 
The women’s teams also had strong finishes and placed third overall, but they did not secure any gold medals. The sabreuses claimed silver after losing in the finals to Ohio State, while the foilists and epeeists both took bronze. 
Bednarski said the Irish are hopeful their strong perfor­mances will set the tone for the NCAA championships, which begin with the regionals March 11 and continue with the finals beginning March 22. 
“[The conference champion­ships] are a good prognostic but we still have a lot of work to do,” Bednarski said. We need to improve our performance but we are moving forward and we have shown progress.” 
The Irish will be back in ac­tion when they travel to Cleve­land on March 11 for the NCAA regionals. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

tired as Ortenzio seemed to just 
Bouts 
be warming up. Ortenzio threw a 

strong left followed by the monster continued from page 20 right that knocked down Eichler 
and secured the win. 

“I feel fantastic,” Bortolotti said. “Endurance was [the key],” “I’m a senior and it really means a Ortenzio said. “The heart was lot that in my last fight I was able to there. Technique might have been get the [win].” out the window – I was a little wild 
The fight was tightly contested – but the heart was there. All the and the two boxers were evenly work since October has paid off.” matched throughout. The first round saw lots of tie-ups as neither Sunoh “What Is This? I Don’t boxer separated himself from the Even” Choe def. Garrity “Biscuit” other. Peterson deployed a quick McOsker (154 pounds) left-right combo but Bortolotti Junior Choe made it four straight countered strongly to close out the wins for the blue corner as he won round. by split decision against the fresh-
Bortolotti survived an onslaught man McOsker. from Peterson to open up the sec-“It feels good,” Choe said. “It was ond stanza and came back by a hard fight, so it feels good.” throwing some punishing lefts. A hard fight it was as neither Bortolotti seemed to grab the up-boxer could grab control of the fight per hand in the match toward the during the first round. Choe landed end of the second round as he got in a powerful right near the ropes but some good punches near the ropes. McOsker came back strong as the Bortolotti commended Peterson’s two then exchanged right upper-skill as a fighter and said he needed cuts. McOsker then threw another the second-round success to pull uppercut but Choe managed to out the win. fight back near the ropes. 
“Will is a great fighter,” Borto-Choe began to separate himself lotti said. “He is really slippery and from McOsker toward the end of moves really well. So I just wanted the second round, as he went back to try to get him on the ropes and I to the uppercut with McOsker up was able to do that in the first two against the ropes. Choe closed out Alex “El Gatito Loco” Oloriz def. last year, the two fighters engaged the round trying to capitalize on his rounds before I kind of ran out of the second frame firing on all cyl-Inoh “Lights Out” Choe (165 in a defensive struggle that saw opportunities, but Skelly kept up gas and he got me a lot in the third. inders as he picked his spots. pounds) neither boxer break through with his tight defenses. But I managed to do enough in the “[The fight] was a lot cleaner The junior captain Oloriz won many big punches. The final round took on a faster first two rounds to get the win.” because [McOsker] is a techni-his first title in his third trip to The junior Alberdi helped set tempo, with both fighters throw-
The O’Neill Hall resident dodged cal fighter,” Choe said. “So I knew the championship as yet another the tone in the first round by ag-ing series of punches. Skelly landed well and threw some monster the match was going to be clean. match was decided by split decision gressively going on the attack, a the biggest punches of the round, punches in an attempt to swing the It wasn’t going to be a brawl. So it over the senior Choe. strategy that contrasted with the knocking Garrity down with a balance of the match in the third was actually better for me. I had to “I couldn’t believe when he held sophomore Joe’s more defensive flurry of upper body shots and round. Bortolotti, who had his pre-think my way through the fight.” up my hand that it was real,” Oloriz style of fighting. Alberdi relied on a throwing Garrity off balance with vious two fights stopped before the McOsker, who has professional said. “I’ve been [to the finals] twice mixture of high punches and quick a hard headshot. Garrity landed third round, was admittedly tired fighting experience, displayed and didn’t go the way I planned. jabs to land some early punches. some headshots late, but it was to as Peterson landed some big shots. strong technique throughout the When it started out, I felt it go-Although he largely stuck to his no avail, as Skelly took the victory 
“[This] was easily the most chal-match and used it in an attempt ing that way. When I woke up this defensive strategy in the second by unanimous decision. lenging fight all year,” Bortolotti to turn things around in the final morning and was going through round, Joe used his height advan-“I’m on cloud nine right now,” said. “We had a strong bracket, but stanza. The freshman was aggres-the day, I just felt that there was tage and long reach to land some Skelly said. “It just feels great to I went through and won my quar-sive to start the round but Choe something special about this day; high jabs on Alberdi, knocking win, especially after all my hard terfinal and semifinal matches stood strong. The junior then uti-something was going to tilt my way. Alberdi off-balance early with a work throughout this season.” by [referee stopped contest]. So lized his quickness and showed It feels really good.” powerful jab-hook combination. this one was definitely the first some aggressiveness as he landed The match began uneventfully Alberdi rebounded with some hard Chris “Not Brian” Salvi def. Adrian time I had to go the distance and a headshot with his right. Choe said with hardly any punches landing body shots to move Joe back at the “Yo Adrian” Moreno (188 pounds) fight from bell to bell for all three he needed that aggressiveness to through the first half of the open-end of the round. In one of the most anticipated rounds.” get the win. ing round. Choe then landed a big “There were a lot of times when fights of the evening, both fighters 
In the end, though, Peterson’s ef-“I wanted to keep to what I al-punch that had Oloriz tripping we would both throw and land used their powerful frames to their forts were too late and Bortolotti ready knew,” Choe said. “I knew he backwards near the ropes. The se-some good shots on each other,” advantage, pummeling each other got the win. was more technical than I was so I nior Choe then continued to go on Alberdi said. “My strategy was to with powerful punches that kept 
tried to do what I do best, which is the attack, and he managed to re-push the pace of the fight a couple the outcome of the fight in doubt Kevin “The Commisioner” just being aggressive and using my treat easily when Oloriz countered. of different times, which I think until the very end. Ortenzio def. Ben “Danger Zone” quickness.” Oloriz was slightly more aggres-helped me.” The pigtail-clad senior Salvi Eichler (148 pounds) sive to start the second round, but Alberdi came out swinging to came out of the gate with visible 
Senior co-president Ortenzio Joey Kim def. Greg Cunningham Choe held his own just fine. Both rapidly speed up the pace in the fi-aggressiveness, immediately hit-looked to be in trouble through the (158 pounds) boxers were dodging well and there nal round, pushing Joe against the ting fellow senior Moreno with first two rounds as Eichler connect-In a battle of two boxers hailing were still hardly any big punches ropes early and using several right some hard body shots and a rapid ed with some heavy shots time and from New York, the junior Kim landed. They then got each other up hooks to land headshots on Joe. The uppercut. After seeing his first again. However, in the third round got the win by split decision as he against the ropes in successive se-two fighters came after each other punches foiled by Salvi, Moreno Ortenzio, the defending champ, un-used his length to keep the senior quences, and the match remained with far more punches in the final broke through toward the end of leashed a vicious right that knocked Cunningham at bay throughout pretty evenly contested. minute, looking for a strong last-the round, mixing in an array of down Eichler and secured the win. the match. “I’ve never been more confident gasp effort to secure the victory. headshots that put Salvi against 
“The first thing to say is wow,” The first round got off to a slow in my cardio, in my ability to keep Alberdi’s stronger performance the ropes. Ortenzio said. “What a way to go start before the two fighters each going,” Oloriz said. “I figured [Choe] in the first and third rounds helped The start of the second round out in such good fashion too. Ben is landed some solid shots. Kim has a little speed on me — I knew secure him a victory by unanimous featured both fighters unleashing a really tough kid and he came out went on the offensive and con-he was a little faster — so I wasn’t decision. their hardest punches, but neither slugging me and I will be honest, nected with some punches that going to use up all my energy early “Last year, I made it to the finals boxer saw much success in land-I took my beating from him in the had Cunningham retreating. on, but I was going to make it a slow and lost, so I said that this year was ing them. Salvi changed his attack, first and second rounds. Fortunate-Cunningham seemed to let grind … He got me towards the end my year to win,” Alberdi said. “It going after Moreno with a right ly, I stayed on my feet and finished Kim go on the attack some more, of the first round pretty good, but I feels good to finally do that.” hook to the stomach and then add-on a good note.” as Cunningham waited for his felt like I still stayed outside. Dur-ing a left hook to Moreno’s face to 
Eichler had the upper hand opportunity. He quickly counter-ing the second and third rounds, I Connor “The Skellator” Skelly force him into the corner. Although throughout the first four minutes attacked and landed some lefts. decided to keep going and then in def. Joe “Send in the Troll” Garrity Moreno was able to break away of the match, as he utilized vicious Kim responded though and the third round I turned it up and (180 pounds) from Salvi, Salvi once again land-right hooks and uppercuts. The had Cunningham retreating for just let it all out.” In a clash of seniors, Skelly used ed a high left hook to trap Moreno sophomore continued to control the the rest of the first round. Oloriz did just that in the final his lanky frame and quick footwork against the ropes. match with a variety of punches The second round opened up round as he got Choe in the cor-to his advantage, keeping Garrity at The final round provided a fit-until the end of the second round, with both boxers being extremely ner and landed a bevy of punches. bay with his signature quick jab. ting conclusion to a top-notch when Ortenzio forced a lot of tie-aggressive at the start. Kim and He continued attacking and threw Garrity, taking the place of law bout. Salvi began the round with ups and dodged some shots from Cunningham exchanged a long some shots that had Choe stagger-student Brian Salvi, created sever-some strong lower body shots, forc-Eichler. flurry of punches in the corner ing a bit. The two were exhausted al opportunities for himself in the ing Moreno back. With much of 
Ortenzio admitted that through of the ring, but then Kim then at the end of the fight but Oloriz got first round, pinning Skelly toward the crowd in his corner, though, the first two rounds, he was just seemed to gain the upper hand the win by split decision in a fight the ropes at two different points Moreno rebounded to land a big trying to weather the storm. in the match as he continued to that he said he was excited to par-during the round. Skelly, however, shot to Salvi’s face that left Salvi’s 
“I knew he threw a lot of hooks utilize his long reach. take in. managed to dance away from sev-nose bleeding. After Salvi landed and a lot of uppercuts,” Ortenzio Kim then shifted his approach “All year I knew [Choe] was the eral of Garrity’s punches and threw a headshot, Moreno continued to said. “So I tried to stay at home, slightly and repeatedly un-best opponent out there,” Oloriz in a few jabs to move Garrity back. attack high, landing several head-keep the arms protecting, and may-leashed a powerful right hook said. “We both have similar styles. “With the extra 30 seconds in shots to move Salvi back against be give a good punch or two or sur-that left both boxers exhausted We both have similar heights. It each round, you just can’t go in the ropes. Both fighters continued prise him with an uppercut, but ap-at the conclusion of the second was just going to come down to who there too aggressively; you need to to throw a flurry of punches before parently that didn’t play out. I just frame. was boxing really well that night. I pick your punches,” Skelly said. “I the round came to a close. had to ride the tough ride through Cunningham tried to take con-was really excited to get the chance just looked for opportunities and In a very close fight, Salvi was the second round and once I saw trol of the match to begin the to fight him in the finals. I wouldn’t stayed calm.” awarded the victory by split deci­the sign of him letting up, that’s final round, as he landed some want to fight anybody else. He was The second round took on a de-sion. when I went on my attack.” strong head shots that got him the best opponent I could ask for in cidedly defensive character, with 
Ortenzio did just that in the third back into the fight. The rest of the terms of a final matchup.” neither boxer able to land many Brian “Caesar” Salat def. Bart round, as he got Eichler in the cor-round was marked by exhaustion punches. Skelly went on the attack “The Guv’nor” Dear (204 pounds) ner and connected with a slew of and slow punches, and Kim got Ryan “Dirty” Alberdi def. Jake Joe early in the round, going after Gar-In one of the most aggressive shots. Eichler, who had yet to go the win by split decision thanks (171 pounds) rity with high jabs and landing a three rounds in a match, looked to a solid first two rounds. In a matchup of runner-ups from few shots. Garrity spent the rest of see FINALS/page 15 


Finals 
continued from page 14 
fights of the night, both fighters entered the ring with an intensity that would last throughout the en­tirety of the match. 
This intensity was visibly appar­ent in the first round, as both fight­ers traded an array of lower body shots early on. The senior Dear looked to go on the attack for much of the round, but the junior Salat largely fended off his low attempts. Salat capitalized on his defense at the end of the round, countering Dear with a series of left hooks. 
“My strategy was really to stick with what I know and not mess up what I had been doing,” Salat said. “I fought this bout in the same way I had been practicing since Octo­ber.” 
The second round saw Dear use sound defensive tactics, taking advantage of his smaller frame and lower stance to evade Salat’s punches. After stopping Salat’s early attack, Dear moved Salat on the ropes and tried to wear him down with a constant stream of lower body punches. 
Both boxers engaged in a slug-fest in the final round, fighting through fatigue to hit each other until the final bell sounded. After a wild flurry of punches to start the round, Dear zeroed in on Salat with a series of high punches, knocking him into the ropes with a few headshots. Salat threw every punch in his arsenal to move Dear back, ultimately hitting him with a powerful uppercut to the head. 
In a very close bout, Salat took the victory in a split decision. 
“I haven’t really comprehended the victory yet,” Salat said. “I’m just thinking of all the hard work and effort it took to win this cham­pionship.” 
Daniel Yi def. Nate “Catdome” Arnold (Heavyweight) 
After winning the 198-pound di­vision last year, sophomore Daniel Yi moved up to the heavyweight di­vision for this year’s tournament. Despite fighting in a much heavier division, Yi successfully relied on a sound technical strategy, as he fully demonstrated in his victory over law student Nate Arnold in a thrilling heavyweight champion­ship bout. 
The first round set the tone for the bout, as Yi relied on his stamina to get away from Arnold, who held a significant height and weight advantage, and wait for an opportunistic time to get his punches in. Yi was able to move in and land a few high jabs on Arnold, but Arnold succeeded in knocking Yi back with some pum­meling body shots. 
“My strategy was not to let him push me around too much, since he was the bigger guy,” Yi said. “I wanted to continue what I had been doing, but I also wanted to be smart and keep a good distance from him.” 
Yi showed little restraint in starting off the second round, coming in high on Arnold with a series of jabs and knocking him against the ropes early. Yi contin­ued to attack with a series of high body shots and kept Arnold on the defensive for much of the round. 
The fight became decidedly more physical in the final round, as Arnold used his brute strength to push Yi off him at several points. Arnold gained some momentum by landing some strong lower body shots. 
Arnold’s efforts were not enough, as Yi won the bout by split decision on his way to being named best boxer of the year. 
“It feels great to win, especially after a long season,” Yi said. “The quality of the fights was better this year, and there were so many great boxers in this year’s field.” 
Peter Steiner and Brendan Bell also contributed to this report. 
Contact Mike Monaco jmonaco@nd.edu and Brian Hartnett at bhartnett@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 
Team competes in Alumni Match 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
With winter weather still present in the Midwest, the Irish took a trip down to Hil­ton Head Island, S.C. to play the Alumni Match Weekend in order to prepare for the up­coming Schenkel Invitational. 
In addition to practicing their golf game at the Sea Pines Resort, the weekend was also an opportunity for the current players to meet and spend time with Irish players of the past, Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. 
“There were two things we wanted to accomplish this weekend,” Kubinski said. “We wanted to spend some time with our alumni and we did that ... We spent some time talking and just getting to know each other. 
“The second thing was to get out on grass, play a little bit, get some rounds in, some holes in and we did that.” 
While the Irish were not in South Bend, weather was still one obstacle the Irish faced. Severe thunderstorms de­scended upon Hilton Head Is­land on Saturday afternoon, forcing the Irish to end their rounds early without finishing the competition. 
“[Saturday] we were over at Harbor Town,” Kubinski said. “Everyone got at least nine holes in. Some of the groups got a little farther into the back nine, but we actually just canceled the competition be­cause no one was able to fin­ish because of severe thunder­storms.” 
Amid the changing weather, the level of play among the current Irish golfers also var­ied depending on the day, Ku­binski said. 
“We had some really good scores going [Saturday],” Ku­binski said. “Chris Walker was four under through 10 holes at Harbor Town. Max [Scodro] was a couple under through 15 holes. We had the boys play­ing well [Saturday] on the PGA tour course. 
“Then [Sunday] we played Heron Point. Scores were actu­ally much higher [Sunday]. We had some high numbers due to high winds, kind of a tough day.” 
The Irish return to Notre Dame this week to practice before heading back to the Southeast during the spring break. Then, on the last week­end of break, the Irish will play in the Schenkel Invitational in Statesboro, Ga. 

“We head down for spring break on Saturday,” Kubin­ski said. “We will spend about three days in the Atlanta area, practicing and playing. Then we will make our way down on Wednesday to the Schenkel to play on the back end of the break. We will be in the same environment — playing in the southeast, playing on the Ber­muda grass — just trying to get ready.” 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


BASEBALL 

ND goes scoreless in series against Texas St. 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lineup may have kicked off the season on a blistering pace, but that came to an end over the weekend as the Irish failed to score a run in a three-game sweep at the hands of Texas State. 
The Irish (5-4) lost 6-0 in San Marcos, Texas on both Friday and Saturday night before falling 5-0 on Sunday afternoon. 
“We were a team that had swung the bats pretty well, and they shut us right down,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “All the credit to them — they did a great job.” 
The wins marked the third, fourth and fifth straight shutouts for the Bobcats (8-3), who are on a six-game winning streak. The Tex­as State pitchers have thrown 50.1 innings without giving up a run and are approaching the collegiate re­cord of 64 consecutive scoreless in­nings set by Arizona State in 1978. 
“I’ve been around college base­ball for 25 years as a player and a coach, and that’s as good or better a pitching staff as I’ve ever seen,” Aoki said. “Those guys had really good stuff and they did a really good job of commanding it.” 
The Irish had several opportuni­ties Friday against Bobcats junior left-handed pitcher Colton Turner (1-0), who gave up hits to six of the first 12 batters he faced, but he held Notre Dame scoreless and allowed just one more hit before leaving in the seventh inning, 
“We got 10 hits in the game and we weren’t able to score a run, which is both a credit to them and kind of a shortfall on our side,” Aoki said. “You hope that if you have 10 hits that you’re able to string a run or two together. 
“I want to give them a lot of cred­it; they made pitches when they needed to. The very first inning they took Trey Mancini, who’d been red-hot coming into the series, and they got him to bounce into an inning-ending double play. And it wasn’t as though Trey got himself out; those guys made good pitches against them all weekend long. They did a good job.” 
Irish sophomore right-handed pitcher Sean Fitzgerald (1-1) was charged with the loss after giving up four runs on eight hits in 3.2 in­nings. 
Saturday’s game was scoreless through the first three innings, but in the bottom of the fourth Irish se­nior right-hander Will Hudgins (1-1) gave up a leadoff double to Bobcats freshman outfielder Brooks Or­ton, who advanced to third base on an error from freshman center fielder Mac Hudgins and then came around to score on a groundout. Texas State scored four unearned runs in the fifth inning and another in the eighth, but as Bobcats junior right-hander Travis Ballew surren­dered just three hits in a full-game shutout. 
Sunday’s matinee began as a pitching duel between Texas State sophomore right-handed pitcher Kyle Finnegan (3-0) and Irish junior right-hander Adam Norton (2-1), but the Bobcats again broke through in the fourth and then added two runs in the fifth inning. Norton gave up three earned runs on eight hits in six innings of work, but he still took the loss as Finnegan surrendered just three singles and struck out 12 batters over seven innings. 
“We did a much better job of pitching than we had in our previ­ous two weekends, but it doesn’t re­ally much matter when you’re not able to scrape out up run through­out the whole weekend,” Aoki said. “We expected for them to have a really good pitching staff, and they certainly didn’t disappoint.” 
Aoki said that the series gave the Irish a good opportunity to see where they stand at this point in the season. 
“I think you move on from it and hope that you’re able to get better and that facing a pitching staff with arms like that better prepares us for some of the challenges that we have coming down the road,” Aoki said. “Those guys just did a good job 
– they don’t have the ranking but as far as I’m concerned they’re prob­ably a top-10 or 15 team.” 
The Irish will try to re-awaken the bats when they face Michigan in Baton Rouge, La., on March 10 at 1 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


ND SOFTBALL 
Irish win three games in Fla. 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish took three of four games for the second weekend in a row, as they participated in the Diamond 9 Citrus Classic at the ESPN Wide World of Sports com­plex in Buena Vista, Fla. 
Notre Dame (7-6), which has won seven of its last 10, opened the weekend with a 5-0 win against Long Island by outhitting their opponents, 9-3. Notre Dame got all five runs by the fourth inning thanks in part to sophomore in­fielder Chloe Saganowich’s three-run triple to right-center field. 
Senior outfielder Alexa Maldo­nado then drove in Saganowich with a single to right field. Mal­donado, who went 3-for-4 against Long Island (2-16), led the Irish of­fense throughout the weekend as she had three other hits and com­piled a .462 batting average. 
“We strung hits together when we needed them,” Maldonado said. “We had the big hit from [Saganowich], which scored three and then I scored her … We just have been stringing hits together in situations when we need to. We also haven’t been leaving that many runners on base. Our team has been scoring when we need to and that’s how we succeeded this weekend.” 
Junior pitcher Brittany O’Donnell (4-2) tossed five shutout innings of two-hit ball before re­turning to the circle in the seventh inning to get out of a bases-loaded jam. 
In Saturday’s second game, the Irish used another strong pitching performance to take down Ohio State 3-1 in eight innings. 
Sophomore pitcher Laura Win­ter went the distance and shut out the Buckeyes (11-7) for the last seven innings after giving up the lone run in the opening frame. 
“In our wins the pitching was good,” Maldonado said. “They didn’t put a lot of runners on base and they did not have a lot of walks. There weren’t many unnecessary base runners. The pitchers also made it so the ball was put in play which gave us a chance to play defense.” 
The Irish tied the game in the third inning and it remained knot­ted at one run apiece until junior outfielder Kelsey Thornton ripped an infield single in the top half of the eighth inning to take the 2-1 lead. Junior catcher Amy Buntin’s sacrifice fly provided an insurance run, but Winter did not need it as she shut the door in the bottom of the eighth to secure the win. 
O’Donnell was back in the circle for Sunday’s first game against Fordham. The junior threw four innings of no-hit ball, but the Rams (4-10) got a run in the fourth inning on a sacrifice fly to take a 1-0 lead. 

In the bottom of the fourth se­nior infielder Dani Miller had an RBI double to tie the game before freshman infielder Katey Haus belted her first career home run to give Notre Dame a 3-1 lead. 
“They pitched very well and they weren’t hit very hard until [the Virginia Tech game],” Mal­donado said. “Their pitch place­ment was great and so was their demeanor. We really fed off their enthusiasm.” 
The Irish, however, couldn’t pull off the sweep in the final game of the weekend, as they were held scoreless in a 3-0 loss to Virginia Tech. 
Notre Dame looks to continue the hot streak when it heads to Lakewood, Calif., on Saturday for the Long Beach State Invite. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


Friars 
continued from page 20 
over the Friars (15-16, 4-14). 
Notre Dame opened the second half on an 11-3 run, capped by sophomore guard Jerian Grant’s 3-pointer with 
15:46 left in the second half. 
The Irish eventually opened up a 67-51 lead late in the second half. Brey took this opportunity to recognize senior forward Scott Martin, removing him from the game to a large ovation from the Purcell Pavilion crowd on Se­nior Night. Martin finished the game with 11 points. 
The Friars, however, re­sponded with a 12-2 run of its own to cut the deficit to just six points. 
“Providence is a run team. They can hit shots really quickly and we found out to­night that you just can’t let down your guard,” Cooley said. “They came back and almost got us.” 
Entering the game, Provi­dence led the Big East in 3-point shooting percentage, but shot just 4-of-20 from be­hind the arc. 
“We wanted to make them drivers instead of shooters,” Martin said. “We wanted to make them put it on the floor and we were able to do that.” 
With the win, Notre Dame locked up the No. 3 seed in the Big East tournament, earning a double bye in the process. The Irish will open the tournament Thursday night at 9 p.m. in Madison Square Garden. 
“We’ve been to the semis,” Brey said. “We’d love to get over the hump and get to [the championship game] Satur­day night.” 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
CCHA 
continued from page 20 
merhays said. “They were doing a good job letting me see pucks, and letting me make routine saves and watch pucks into my glove and chest.” 
Summerhays continued his strong play Saturday, but not without some early adversity. 
Ohio State scored the contest’s first goal 4:35 into the game when senior defenseman Sean Duddy fired a shot past a screened Sum­merhays. 
Though Irish sophomore wing­er Jeff Costello quickly answered to tie the game, the Buckeyes went back on top near the end of the period when senior forward Danny Dries received a cross-ice feed and found the back of the net. 
But that would be the final goal of the season for the Buckeyes, as Summerhays shut the door the rest of the game, recording 31 saves. 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson said he was pleased to see Summer-hays not flustered after the first-period goals. 
“The thing I’ve been clamoring for all year is consistency,” Jack­son said. “I was curious to see when he gave up the early goal tonight how he’d respond and he responded very well.” 


The Irish dominated play in the second period and again tied the game at the 2:08 mark. Sopho­more winger Bryan Rust worked his way from behind the goal to the front of the net before find­ing sophomore forward Anders Lee at the top of the crease for an easy finish. 
The game-winner came with 

11:03 left in the second period. Af­ter a faceoff win by Maday, soph­omore forward David Gerths’ shot hit Heeter’s facemask then bounced off Voran into the net. The play was reviewed, but the goal stood. 
Maday concluded the scoring with an empty-net goal in the third period for his fourth point of the series, as the Irish scored more than two goals for the first time since Jan. 28. 
While Notre Dame advanced, there is still work left to do to make the NCAA tournament. The task only gets more difficult with a trip to No. 2-seed Michigan and hostile Yost Ice Arena. 
“The first ten minutes of the first game are going to be huge,” Voran said. “When you’re on the road, you definitely want to pick up the first game.” 
The Irish travel to Ann Arbor, Mich., to face Michigan in the CCHA quarterfinals this week­end. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish stay undefeated with win over Buckeyes 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
In their first road game of the season, the No. 14 Irish cap­tured a 16-7 win over No. 10 Ohio State in Ohio Stadium. 
Notre Dame’s blowout victory continues the team’s undefeat­ed start to 2012 and — after a 17-14 home defeat of then-No. 6 Stanford on Feb. 19 — gives the Irish (3-0) their second victory over a ranked opponent this year. 
“I think that we had a total team effort into being prepared, and our goal of improving every time out was really important,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said. “We were able to look at the game film and take a look at where we wanted to improve our team and really train hard so we could get ready for we would be able to handle the pressure and the athletic team that Ohio State was going to throw at us.” 
The Irish notched the first goal less than a minute into the contest, when senior at­tack Maggie Tamasitis as­sisted junior midfielder Jenny Granger’s goal. The Irish added three more goals over the next nine minutes before Ohio State (5-1) answered with two quick scores. The Buckeyes’ run was short-lived, as the Irish responded with four-straight goals to extend their lead to 8-2. 
Ohio State scored two more goals before the half to pull within four, but the Irish opened the second with a 5-1 run that effectively put the game out of reach. Seven different players scored for the Irish and junior attack Jaime Morrison, senior defense Megan Sullivan, sopho­more attack Lindsay Powell and sophomore midfielder Kaitlyn Brosco each scored three goals apiece. 
“There’s a lot [for other teams] to worry about on our offense,” Halfpenny said. “This was our third game in a row where we had more than seven point-getters, and I think that’s huge, when we are able to move the ball through a lot of people’s hands.” 
Tamasitis recorded five as­sists in the game, already the second time this season she has reached the mark. 
“Her shooting ability, her vi­sion is incredible,” Halfpenny said of the captain. “But I think it is a testament to the players that are around her as well … Yeah, Maggie is amazing, but we are really focused on total team style and the big goal is that everyone is making every­one else look better.” 
On the defensive end, the Irish surrendered only seven goals for the second consecutive game. Ohio State entered the game averaging 17.2 goals per game on .506 shooting, but con­verted seven goals on 29 shots against Notre Dame for a shoot­ing average of .241. Junior goal­keeper Ellie Hilling anchored the Irish defense and collected a career-high 16 saves Sunday. 
“Monster game for her, she was phenomenal,” Halfpenny said. “Definitely, if we had a game ball, I think it would have to go to Ellie Hilling … It wasn’t just saves — she picked up ground balls and she caused turnovers as well. She was very focused, very ready. 
“[Ohio State has] a very po­tent offense so we knew they were going to get looks.” 
Despite their hot start, Half­penny said the squad needs to remain focused on the large portion of the season that lies ahead. 
“Honestly, we are going to stay focused on Notre Dame, ourselves,” Halfpenny said. “It is still early in the season. We are really excited about the win, of course. Winning builds confi­dence and it breeds confidence, so that is good, but we definitely know that it is early and we are not going to be resting on our laurels by any means.” 
The Irish will return to action when they travel to Boston Uni­versity on Saturday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 



Dragons 
continued from page 20 
In the second quarter, Doyle scored his first goal of the season, which cut the Irish deficit in half and made the score 2-1 in favor of the Dragons at halftime. 
Rogers said Irish coach Kevin Corrigan took advantage of in­termission to reiterate the impor­tance of playing aggressively. 
“At halftime coach Corrigan told us that we had a lot of great opportunities, but we hadn’t fin­ished any of them,” Rogers said. “We were close to knocking the top off of them, and we just went out with that mentality of just knocking shots into the cage. De­fensively, we knew what we had to do to stop them, and we really executed the game plan in the sec­ond half.” 
The Irish netted four goals in the third period, which featured four different scorers. Sophomore midfielder Jim Marlatt and sopho­more attack Westy Hopkins each scored in the quarter, and Rogers scored with 7:47 remaining for his first goal of the season. Both teams exchanged goals in the fi­nal minutes of the period, mak­ing the score 5-3 heading into the fourth quarter. 
The Dragons responded with two consecutive goals to open the final period, tying the game at five in front of their home crowd at Vi­das Field in Philadelphia. 
It was Rogers who came through in the clutch, finding the back of the net for the second time and guiding Notre Dame to its sec­ond win of the season. 
The Dragons outshot the Irish 30-25, controlled more face-offs (9-6) and collected more ground balls (25-24), but Notre Dame managed to steal the victory be­hind solid defense. 
Junior goalkeeper John Kemp collected nine saves, compared to Drexel’s five. 
Rogers said Notre Dame per­formed better than the statistics might indicate. 
“The key to the victory was the offense playing aggressively,” he said. “We didn’t want to be laid back, and I think the offense did 


Diggins 
continued from page 20 
our program.” 
Entering the tournament with the top seed and a double-bye, Notre Dame (29-2, 15-1 Big East) faced off with a DePaul team that had defeated South Florida 76-62 in the second round. The Blue De­mons (22-10, 9-8) jumped out to an early lead and maintained a 12-11 advantage nearly six min­utes into the contest. 
“I think the game went about as I expected the beginning to go,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “[DePaul] had played yes­terday. I think that historically, when a team plays a game they are a little bit more game ready.” 
The Irish jolted to life with a seven-point run to gain the lead, and then used another seven-point run several minutes later to push their lead to 32-21. After heading into the break up 12, the Irish scored the first 10 points of the second half to push the score to 48-26 and take command of the game. 
“I think … we finally woke up in the second half,” Diggins said. “We talked about it, made some adjustments at halftime, came out and executed better in the second half.” 
The Irish outrebounded the Blue Demons 41-28 and grabbed 18 offensive boards, but their big­gest accomplishment was holding DePaul junior guard Anna Mar­tin to just seven points on 3-of­10 shooting. Martin averaged a Big East-leading 19.4 points per game this season and led the way with 33 points in DePaul’s second round win over the Bulls.
 “I was pleased with the de­fense on Martin,” McGraw said. “She had a phenomenal year; she is just a great player so I was re­ally happy with the way we were able to guard her.” 
After closing out Sunday’s game with a victory, the Irish prepare to face fifth-seeded West Virginia in the semifinals. The Mountaineers (23-8, 12-5) de­feated fourth-seeded Georgetown in their quarterfinal matchup, 39-32, and handed Notre Dame its only loss in conference play for the season. On Feb. 12, West Vir­ginia defeated the Irish 65-63 in Purcell Pavilion, largely behind junior centers Asya Bussie and Ayana Dunning. Bussie scored a career-high 22 points and brought in eight rebounds, while Dunning added 11 points. 
“For me [the last time against West Virginia], I think I was 1-of-8 shooting, and I missed a whole bunch of layups,” Peters said. “Dunning and Bussie were getting a lot of points on me and I was fouling a lot … I think the biggest difference in that game was the post game. They were scoring a lot of points in the post and we weren’t doing our job, so that is definitely going to have to change for tomorrow.” 
The Irish will hope to take an­other step towards securing the first Big East championship in school history and exact revenge along the way when they face off with West Virginia at 6 p.m. Mon­day in the XL Center. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd,edu 
a good job of that. The score won’t against a ranked team this sea-games against ranked opponents. say so because we scored six, but son. The Dragons previously fell The Irish will face off at James as a whole, the offense played its to top-ranked Virginia and No. 9 M. Shuart Stadium against No. 20 most complete game of the sea-Villanova. Hofstra on Saturday at 3 p.m. son.” Rogers said Drexel proved to be 
Drexel’s inability to defend late a challenge to this Irish squad, Contact Megan Golden at ultimately led to its third loss which will play its next three mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 


EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE 



HENRy ARNOLD

THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Monday, March 5, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Champions crowned 
Eleven boxers take home titles to conclude 82nd Bengal Bouts 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Senior Chris “Not Brian” Salvi, right, punches senior Adrian “Yo Adrian” Moreno during his win in the 188-pound final Saturday at Purcell Pavilion. Salvi won by split decision. 
By MIKE MONACO and BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writers 
Jack “Rico Suave” Lally def. “Tough As” Niels Seim (133 pounds) 
The first fight of the night was a rematch of last year’s finals match-up, with the juniors Lally and Seim squaring off once again. For the third year in a row, Lally claimed the title. 
“Once it again, it’s awesome,” Lally said. “It’s a huge relief this year, if anything just because there is a lot of hype having won last year. There is an expectation to come back and perform … I’m really happy right now.” 
The first round was uneventful as both boxers showed their quick­ness and agility and evaded their opponent’s best efforts. Seim and Lally both managed to land a few punches here and there, but for the most part the juniors were content to stay at home and let the other boxer open up and potentially leave himself vulnerable. For Lally, that fighting style fit right in with his game plan. 
“I’m one of the lankier kids in the 133 [pound] division,” Lally said. “Typically, my plan is just to keep guys away with a stiff jab and basi­cally take the center of the ring and make him work for his points. I was just able to keep [Seim] away from me and use my reach advantage. That’s pretty much what it came down to. There were a few times when he broke in on me and I had to pivot out and try to reestablish that space.  But once I had that space established, I felt like I was able to control the fight.” 
Seim went on the attack in the second round and had Lally re­treating. He landed punches with strong left-right combinations that had Lally backpedaling out of harm’s way. 
The final frame began with both guys swinging for the fences in what was an even third round. Seim landed his fair share of punches, but Lally stood strong and countered aggressively. In the end, Lally got the win by split decision. 
“Last year, it was a unanimous win [against Seim] and this year was a split so this year was defi­nitely a little bit closer,” Lally said. “He put up a really good fight … He’s a great competitor so I was re­ally happy to get out with a win on this one.” 
Nick “Bronco” Bortolotti def. Will “The Thrill” Peterson (142 pounds) 
Senior captain Bortolotti con­cluded his boxing career at Notre Dame with a split decision win over sophomore Peterson, the defending champion. The senior from Elm­hurst, Ill., was thrilled to go out in dramatic fashion. 
see BOUTS/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish defeat DePaul, to play Mountaineers 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
In the same venue that hosted Notre Dame’s regular season Big East title-securing victory over No. 4 Connecticut, the Irish began their quest for the Big East tournament title. 
The Irish returned to action in the XL Center of Hartford, Conn., with a 69-54 defeat of DePaul in the quarterfinals of the conference tournament. 
Graduate student forward Devereaux Peters recorded her 10th double-double of the sea­son with 16 points, 10 rebounds and six blocks, and junior guard Skylar Diggins added 12 points and five assists after being named Big East Player of the Year on Friday. Diggins, who was also the Big East preseason Player of the Year, led the Irish with 17.2 points, 5.8 assists and 
2.6 steals per game this season. 
“It shows the respect that Big East coaches have for me, choosing me at the beginning and then at the end,” Diggins told BigEast.tv on Friday. “With­out my teammates I would nev­er be able to receive a reward like this … It means a lot to the University of Notre Dame and 
see DIGGINS/page 18 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Notre Dame captures road victory over Drexel 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Senior attack Sean Rogers and No. 9 Notre Dame responded to last weekend’s loss to Penn State by rallying to top No. 18 Drexel 6-5 on Saturday. 
The Irish defense set the tone against the Canadian-style Drexel offense. The Dragons (1-3) were unable to halt Notre Dame’s comeback as the Irish found a rhythm offensively in the second half. 
“We tried to be aggressive this week and definitely took advantage [of our open looks]. As a whole, we played really well,” Rogers said. “The defense, they’re just phenomenal. They really give the offense a boost of confidence when you know they will hold teams.” 
An early Irish penalty by freshman attack Conor Doyle led to Drexel’s first goal of the game, putting the Dragons up 1-0 with­in the first two minutes of play. 
Drexel added a second goal midway through the first period, building an early 2-0 lead. 
Notre Dame (2-1) would even­tually overcome its slow start by holding the Dragons scoreless for the next 33:27. 
see DRAGONS/page 18 
HOCKEY 

Irish sweep Ohio State, advance in playoffs 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The final game ever played at the Joyce Center was an Ohio State victory over Notre Dame on Oct. 15. The final games played at the Compton Family Ice Arena in the 2011-2012 season proved a different story, as the No. 18 Irish stormed to a two-game sweep over the Buckeyes in the best-of-three first round of the CCHA playoffs by scores of 2-0 and 4-2 on Friday and Saturday, respectively. 
No. 8-seed Notre Dame (19-16­
3) started Friday’s game strongly with a goal during the first 10 min­utes, when sophomore forward Mike Voran corralled the puck along the goalline and shot it to­ward the net. The puck appeared to hit the shin of senior captain and forward Billy Maday and then deflected into the net off Buckeye defenseman Al McLean’s leg past goalie Cal Heeter. 
Early in the second period, Ma-day scored again, when he put away an easy opportunity off a rebound from a slapshot by fresh­man defenseman Robbie Russo on the power play. 
From that point on, sophomore goaltender Steven Summerhays stole the show. 
Summerhays, who notched his second consecutive shutout, fin­ished with 33 saves, including a sprawling glove save in the second period to keep ninth-seeded Ohio State (15-15-5) scoreless. 
“I feel like anytime you get a shutout, as I said last week, it’s a direct result of the guys in front of you blocking shots, and tonight they probably blocked the most shots they have all year,” Sum-
see CCHA/page 17 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND tops Friars, claims No. 3 seed 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
It was only fitting that on a night when Notre Dame hon­ored former great Adrian Dantley, Irish junior forward Jack Cooley tried his best to emulate the newest Ring of Honor member. 
Cooley’s career-high 27 points and 17 rebounds helped propel the No. 20 Irish to a 75­69 win over Providence on Fri­day night. 
In Notre Dame’s 59-41 loss to Georgetown, Cooley regis­tered just two points and no rebounds. 
“[I was] certainly happy to see Cooley bounce back with a vengeance,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “We were able to throw it to him and he was fab­ulous tonight.” 
Cooley scored 21 of Notre Dame’s 31 points in the first half. He also collected 10 re­bounds in the opening half. 

“I know I needed to refocus,” Cooley said. “Out in practice, I was playing hard but I knew I had to get out here and show it off to get some confidence.” 
Despite Cooley’s big first half, the Irish (21-10, 13-5 Big East) held just a 31-28 halftime edge 
see FRIARS/page 17 




