

The observer | FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

COMMENTARY 

Golson selection not enough 


Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
dUbLIn — don’t do it. Just don’t. don’t read too much into Irish coach brian Kelly’s selection of sophomore everett Golson as the starting quarter­back for tomorrow’s opener. 
I’m all for getting excited about it, but the truth is stark: Golson is not the solution to all of notre dame’s woes.  he will not lead the Irish to a national championship, or even 10 regular-season wins, this year. he will not be a heisman con­tender. he will not be the sec­ond coming of Joe montana. 
he will, however, make plen­ty of mistakes. 
That’s understandable — after all, Golson is a first-time starter. The blue-Gold Game and practice are a good start, but no one rushes you quite as quickly as an opposing de­fensive end in front of tens of thousands of fans.  especially early in the season, the young, talented quarterback will show his youth more often than his talents. 

but the biggest reason Golson’s inexperience will prevent him from being an in­stant legend is because of the offense he has to work with. Without michael Floyd to draw safeties away from senior tight end Tyler eifert, Golson won’t have a big safety blanket. even more worrisome is the depth of the receiving corps as a whole. While there’s a lot of talent in players like T.J. Jones, Theo riddick and robby Toma, none of them have demonstrated an ability to consistently change games. This means Golson is going to have to account for more of the offense than he would have last year. some of that will be straightforward, like an increased reliance on option and zone-read plays. some of it will be more intan­gible, like drawing defenders away from his receivers by rolling out of the pocket. All of it will be challenging for a young quarterback. he will make mistakes. 
Those mistakes might come at bad times, too. Last year, the Irish had the luxury of relying on bruising veteran running back Jonas Gray when they needed a third-down conversion or in the red zone. While George Atkinson is explosive coming out of the backfield, he doesn’t have Gray’s size. Again, that very simply translates into more responsibility on Golson. he will make mistakes. 
even if the new starter does exceed every impossibly high expectation, he can’t touch this team’s biggest liability: its defensive secondary. The success of the 2012 season probably depends more on another starter named last Thursday: freshman Keivarae russell, who will start at cor­nerback following the loss of Lo Wood to injury. even if Golson turns in 12 impec­cable performances this year, this team just won’t win 12 games. It will make mistakes. 
none of this is to say Golson isn’t a significant up­grade for notre dame. every piece of evidence we have 
— including, yes, that insane high school highlight reel — suggests he’ll provide an im­mediate dose of dynamism to an Irish offense sorely in need of it. I wouldn’t be sur­prised to see him win a game or two on his own after he’s settled into the starting role. his ceiling is sky-high, and it’s positively scary to think of what he could become by the time his senior day rolls around. 
but for now, recognize this: Golson is not the end to notre dame’s problems. he is not the savior of the 2012 season. Throughout the year, he’ll probably be up and down, and he’ll probably make more than a few highlight-reel plays. but you can count on one thing: he will make mistakes. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


RECRUITING 



International exposure entices Irish recruits 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
The Irish enter the 2012 
season having already as­
sembled a competitive 2013 
recruiting class of 19 players, 
including five esPnU 150 tal­
ents. Though national signing 
day is still nearly a half-year 
away, Irish coach brian Kelly 
and his staff have built a class 
that ranks no. 8 nationally in 
esPn’s latest class rankings. 
Irish recruiting expert mike 
Frank said the Irish recruiters 
outperformed expectations in 
the summer signing period. 
“[recruiting] has gone even better than I had expected it would,” said Frank, who runs the esPn-affiliated Irish sports daily. “Where they’re at, with so many top-ranked players already committed, they’ve done an excellent job in getting some of the best play­ers on campus. It doesn’t even stop with 2013, but they’ve even gotten some 2014 pros­pects on campus. They’ve sur­passed many expectations.” 
highlighting the class is the June 2 commitment of super-prospect outside linebacker Jaylon smith, who chose the Irish over ohio state. smith, ranked no. 14 in the esPnU 150 and a five-star prospect on some recruiting services, is the highest-ranked Irish re­cruit at linebacker since cur­rent senior and captain manti Te’o. The Fort Wayne, Ind., product is the centerpiece of a linebacking class that includes esPn’s no. 63 prospect Alex Anzalone. Frank said he loves the versatility smith will bring to the future Irish defensive corps. 
“I absolutely love Jaylon smith,” Frank said. “The rea­son he’s so good is he is versa­tile across all four linebacking positions in a 3-4. Its about his flexibility. If you bring in somebody like [current Irish commit] michael deeb and put him at inside linebacker, smith can help you outside. 
“he has that size that you look for in an elite linebacker, but what makes him so ver­satile is his quickness. he’s as good as they’re going to find at 

that position.” 
beyond the trio of smith, Anzalone and deeb, Frank said the Irish have taken steps through recruiting to prepare for several graduations on the offensive line. With multiple starters on the offensive line in their final years of eligibility, Kelly’s staff has lined up com­mitments from five offensive linemen in an effort to restock talent. Tackles colin mcGovern and hunter bivin are the only members of the group in the esPnU 150, but Frank said the group represents a commitment by Kelly to con­tinuing physical football. 
“I’m most excited about the offensive line class that Kelly is bringing in,” Frank said. “With these players, brian Kelly can get back to where notre dame needs to be consistently in terms of playing physical foot­ball and building a winner.” 
The Irish also welcomed the commitments of several play­ers Frank believe to be under­the-radar gems, among them tight end danny mattingly and defensive end Isaac rochell. 
“danny mattingly is some­body who most recruiting services have as a three-star 
“[Recruiting] 
has gone even 
better than I 
had expected it 


would.” 
Mike Frank 
Irish recruiting expert 
player, but I don’t see it that way,” Frank said. “To me he is someone who is a four-star if not a high-four star player. Isaac rochell committed early in June so people forget about him, but at the defensive end position he is also going to be a top-notch player for this coach­ing staff.” 
having already built a stel­lar class, the Irish now turn to dublin and the season opener. The emerald Isle classic will feature a handful of high school football games in advance of the clash between notre dame and navy. While there are several top players playing in those lead-up games who may lean Irish after the event, Frank said the real recruiting event would come from recruits who see the program’s international exposure. 
“What will be evident to re­cruits who are over there and those who are watching on television is just how strong the fan base is,” he said. “There are going to be 40,000 notre dame fans over in a foreign country, and there are very few teams that could pull that off. I can only think of a couple that have that kind of fan support. 
“so for recruits across the country, notre dame has a big interest in showing the kind of international exposure that the program has, and the kinds of events a player participates in at notre dame.” 
Frank said the opportunity to experience a major event in a foreign country would be an attractive opportunity to a re­cruit despite the grueling travel and unfamiliar surroundings. 
“Ultimately, everybody wants these kinds of opportu­nities, to have the chance to see a world that is completely dif­ferent than their own,” Frank said. “I think some of them would probably rather play in front of their friends and family in a familiar environment, but they will sacrifice one game for the incredible experience.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com 
Email Mike at   mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2012 | The observer 






IRISH CELEBRATION 
Notre Dame embraces Irish roots with Dublin opener, faces logistical challenges 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Assistant managing editor 
dUbLIn — The Fighting Irish in Ireland. 
It is a rare occasion that notre dame is able to celebrate its athletic identity in Ireland. most assume the iconic moni­ker has always represented the pro­gram, but in reality that identity was not made official until 1927, according to University archives. 
earlier in its history, notre dame would compete athletically against lo­cal colleges, with press reports refer­ring to teams by the school’s religion. Although the entire roster was not composed of catholic players or men of Irish descent, the team was typically referred to as the catholics or the Irish. 
despite others using the nickname as a slur, notre dame embraced it. After all, it served as a reminder of the school’s heritage: more than a name or a people — a faith. It became a sym­bol for anyone discriminated against and represented the core values of the catholic institution. 
Logistics of the trip 
notre dame and navy are hardly strangers — this is the 86th consecu­tive year the schools have played, 13 years longer than the University has carried the ‘Fighting Irish’ nickname 
— but saturday’s season opener will carry unfamiliar, though not unprec­edented, flair. 
The festivities surrounding the emerald Isle classic will become cher­ished memories for the estimated 35,000 Americans traveling to dublin for a football game. For those involved in the competition, the logistics are simply a nightmare. 

“It is incredibly challenging,” notre dame director of Athletics Jack swarbrick said. “not every 18-year-old has a passport, so you start with basic things like that. You have to get every­body a passport, plus the customs is­sues. That’s one logistical example of it and it’s everything about the sleep cy­cle of the team and the dietary needs.” 
Two-year-old Aviva stadium, the site of saturday’s contest, hosts an Irish rugby team and Ireland’s national soccer squad. The facility underwent a makeover in recent weeks to house American football, but some aspects of the stadium simply cannot be modified. 
notre dame director of football op­erations chad Klunder and equipment manager ryan Grooms traveled to the stadium in may to make preparations for saturday’s game. one of the chal­lenges: notre dame’s locker room in Ireland contains 28 lockers, but rough­ly 100 players are traveling with the team. As a solution, the Irish offense will double up each locker while the de­fense uses an auxiliary room adjacent to the locker room. 
“It’s a very complicated deal, and I couldn’t be prouder of our staff for pull­ing it off,” said swarbrick, who added that several truckloads of equipment would be hauled from Aviva stadium to dublin International Airport through­out the game to get a head start on passing through customs. 
Irish coach brian Kelly said his pri­mary concern is how the trip — and the quick turnaround — affects the players later in september. 
“What I’m worried about is sleep, loss of sleep, and a cumulative fatigue fac­tor that bites us three, four weeks down the road,” said Kelly, whose team faces michigan state and michigan in weeks three and four, respectively, before a bye week. “so my concerns are more in not just one game but three or four weeks. 
“I love everything about Ireland. I’m not a big fan of playing football games in Ireland.” 
senior captain manti Te’o said the players need to keep each other in check and keep the trip in perspective: They have a job to accomplish, not a va­cation to enjoy. 
“For me, it’s strictly business,” he said. “I’ll enjoy Ireland while I can, but I’m focusing on the game. 
“I’m not going to say it won’t be a distraction. It’s definitely going to be a distraction.” 
An international affair 
sixteen years ago, notre dame played in Ireland for the first time (and made its second international appear­ance in program history) when it de­feated navy 54-27 in dublin. 
The field was soggy, the two sides had to share a sideline and played in front of 38,651 fans at cavernous croke Park, a stadium with a capacity of 70,000. 
despite the problems and a midsea­son trip across the ocean, then-Irish coach Lou holtz said he would jump at the opportunity to do it all over again. 
“This was a great trip — I would definitely do it again,” holtz told The observer in 1996. “I thought the game would be different [because of the en­vironment], but it wasn’t.” 
Whereas Kelly views the weekend as a business trip, holtz saw it as a learn­ing experience. he led the team on a trip to a monastery and a lecture at Trinity college and had players keep a journal of the trip as a way to remem­ber the weekend. 
As a sign of the times, the 1996 game 
— played at 8 a.m. esT — was tape-delayed by cbs until noon. With the majority of the Tv timeouts eliminated from the broadcast, the game conclud­ed in less than three hours. 
“I enjoy playing the game on Tv, but liked it without the Tv timeouts,” holtz said. “If Pbs is interested in tele­vising our games, I think it would be tremendous.” 
much like the emerald Isle classic, the 1996 shamrock classic was re­garded at the time as the biggest tour­ist event in dublin history, with an estimated $25 million pumped into the Irish economy. 
As in 1996, the student body will be largely absent from the festivities on the other side of the Atlantic in 2012. With the price tag of a trip to dublin a hefty one and no interruption from the academic schedule, most students will watch the game in the early morn­ing from the comfort of their residence halls and off-campus apartments and houses. 
but when the group of fans that does travel abroad packs up and heads home sunday, the trip will become a mem­ory, a treasured link to the past and a reminder of some of the University’s fundamental roots an ocean away. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 






NAVY 

GRANT TOBIN | The Observer Observer File Photo 
NAVY PASSING and mammoth sophomore defensive end no, that’s not a misprint. The two words stephon Tuitt, is now a cohesive unit ca­
(Jr.) Casey Bolena 

a couple lines up do indeed say “navy pable of containing navy’s rushing game.
 (sr.) Jonathan Gazaille 89 Passing.” Although due to navy’s option The deep rotation of defensive linemen offense, the midshipmen’s passing attack that includes junior Louis nix and gradu­
(Sr.) John Howell 

is nearly non-existent. ate student Kapron Lewis-moore should (Jr.) darius staten 
20 
SB 
despite the structure of the offense, be able to withstand navy’s notorious cut 
(Sr.) Ryan Paulson 

78
look for navy to pass the ball slightly more blocks at the line of scrimmage. (sr.) Andrew barker 
LT 
than in years past under the direction navy will be assured of large rushing (So.) Noah Copeland 

(Sr.) Josh Cabral 
FB 


LG 
(sr.) Prentice christian 35 (Fr.) e.K. binns 57
of new junior quarterback Trey miller. numbers saturday. Whether they are ef­miller is a better passer than former navy fective, though, is a different question. (Jr.) Trey Miller 

(Jr.) Graham Vickers 
QB


C
 (Fr.) Keenan reynolds 19 (so.) Tanner Fleming 75 
signal caller Kriss Proctor, who ran for EDGE: EVEN more yards than he threw for last year. (So.) Jake Zuzek 
71 RG
 (Jr.) Thomas stone 

Irish fans should recognize miller from NAVY OFFENSIVE COACHING 
(So.) Bradyn Heap 

last year’s 56-14 blowout win — a game navy coach Ken niumatalolo has taken (sr.) Andrew barker 
78 
RT 
in which he made his first career start. the midshipmen to new heights against 
(Sr.) Gee Gee Greene 
(sr.) bo snelson 4

While miller produced subpar numbers notre dame in recent years and will have 
SB 
in south bend, he gained valuable experi-his guys mentally prepared for the season ence against the Irish that can only ben-opener. but notre dame defensive coordi­
(Jr.) Shawn Lynch 

efit him this year. nator bob diaco has faced three triple op- (sr.) John o’boyle 
83 
WR 
notre dame’s pass defense enters the tion teams since the navy debacle in 2010 season as one of the largest questions and shut them all down. marks for the Irish. After losing both EDGE: NOTRE DAME cornerbacks from last year and safety 
(So.) Parrish Gaines 

harrison smith to the nFL draft, the sec-NAVY SPECIAL TEAMS 
(Fr.) Kwazel bertrand 
17 
CB 
ondary was set to plug in three new start-navy entered camp not with a quarter­ers. but with the season-ending injury back controversy but with a kicker contro­suffered by Lo Wood, freshman Keivarae versy. The midshipmen named freshman (So.) Jordan Drake 

OLB 

(Jr.) dJ sargenti 52 

russell was thrust into the starting line-nick sloan the placekicker this past week (So.) Chris Ferguson
S
(Jr.) Wave ryder 8 

up. despite the inexperience, the second-despite inconsistent performances in (Sr.) Wes Henderson 

DE
(sr.) Josh dowling-Fitzpatrick 59
ary should have no problems defending practice. sloan’s inexperience could hurt 
(Sr.) Matt Warrick 
(Jr.) cody Peterson 53

navy’s primitive passing game. navy if the midshipmen keep this game 
ILB 
(Jr.) Barry Dabney 


NG 
(Jr.) Travis bridges 72
EDGE: NOTRE DAME close until the end. 
(Sr.) Brye French 
ILB

In the return game, navy brings back (sr.) John michael nurthen 
40 
(Jr.) Evan Palelei 

NAVY RUSHING junior marcus Thomas and senior bo 

DE
(sr.) collin sturdivant 49 
(Sr.) Tra’ves Bush 

The triple option has been navy’s snelson to handle kickoff duties while ju-
3 S
(so.) James britton 

equalizer for years now in its attempt to nior shawn Lynch will make his debut at (Sr.) Keegan Wetzel


OLB 
(so.) obi Uzoma 44 

compete with the big boys of college foot-punt return. Thomas was solid a year ago, ball. The deceptive and quick option had averaging 22 yards per return and scoring handed notre dame losses in three of the a touchdown. (Jr.) Jonathan Wev 

CB 
(Fr.) shelley White 7

previous four meetings before last year’s EDGE: EVEN rout. In the 42-point victory over the midshipmen last year, the Irish defense NAVY SCHEDULE seemed to have the option figured out, sept. 1 vs. Notre Dame holding navy to 196 yards on 50 carries. sept. 15 @ Penn State 
While the system remains the same, sept. 22 VMI the personnel has changed a lot for sept. 29 San Jose State 

(Fr.) Nick Sloan (So.) Colin Amerau 

navy. It lost Proctor and former fullback oct. 6 @ Air Force (Fr.) Austin Grebe 
82 PK (Fr.) Austin Grebe 
82 
KO 
Alexander Teich, their top two rushers last oct. 12 Central Michigan 
(So.) Pablo Beltran (Jr.) Marcus Thomas 
 (Jr.) Justin haan 43 4

season who combined for nearly 2,000 oct. 20 Indiana 
P (sr.) bo snelson 
KR
yards on the ground. senior slot back Gee oct. 27 @ East Carolina (Jr.) Shawn Lynch 

(So.) Joe Cardona 
PR


 (sr.) Gee Gee Greene 21 (sr.) billy coats 92 

LS 
Gee Greene is navy’s top returning rusher nov. 3 Florida Atlantic after racking up more than 500 yards. nov. 10 @ Troy notre dame’s front seven, led by All-nov. 17 Texas State American senior linebacker manti Te’o dec. 8 vs. Army 

Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
on paper, predicting this game is a fool’s errand: navy games are always unpredictable, season openers even more so and games in Ireland … well, who knows? 
The reality is much easier than that, even with the loss of two starters to suspension. notre dame has come a long way from the debacle in the meadowlands two years ago, and navy has since lost ricky dobbs. The Irish de­fense is much more disciplined, and everett Golson is running an offense that’s finally comfortable with the brian Kelly system. 
especially considering the hype around this game, navy might give notre dame a scare for a quarter or so. but it won’t last much longer than that. It’s going to be one amazing Irish party in Aviva stadium. 



Andrew Owens 
Assistant managing editor 
Typically the anticipation of the season opener carries with it a rosy outlook. each team’s record is unblemished, and surely this is the year everything comes together for your favorite program. In 2012, however, saturday’s season opener should be more of a sigh of relief that the off-season is over. After recruiting defections and season-ending injuries with suspensions sprinkled in, the focus is back on the game of football. While the trip is a once-in-a-lifetime affair for fans, it’s a headache for coaches and players. navy is used to ignoring distractions and playing disciplined football, and we’ll see if the Irish can do the same. An adequate showing by the offense will be aided by a dominating effort by the defense and a suc­cessful halt of the triple option. 



Chris Allen 
sports editor 
From the time the emerald Isle classic was announced, it is the festivities rather than the football that has domi­nated the talk. but the beauty of big football events is when the festivities die down, the game played between the white lines is the same game the players have played their whole lives. I get the sense from talking to players that the international aspect of this game does not excite them much. 
In year three of his tenure, brian Kelly has assembled the dominant play around the line of scrimmage that should make the Irish less susceptible to the fluke upset all season. Golson will make a few plays — and a few mis­takes — but the Irish will walk off the field 1-0 knowing bigger tests await stateside. 

FINAL SCORE: notre dame 31, navy 14 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 27, navy 13 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 33, navy 21 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2012 | The observer 





TO HEAD 

NOTRE DAME 

Observer File Photo TOM YOUNG | The Observer 

IRISHPASSING injury that will keep him out an extended much like navy, notre dame will be ush-period. A defense that gave up 442 total KeiVarae Russell (Fr.) 
ering in a new era under center with a mo-yards to the Irish last october needed all 

CB 43 Josh Atkinson (so.) 
bile and inexperience signal caller. After the help it could get. surviving a four-man quarterback derby, The Irish would be hard-pressed to top sophomore quarterback everett Golson last year’s total of seven rushing touch-

Ben Councell (So.) 

OLB 
will take his first snap as notre dame’s downs but running the ball against an un­
45 romeo okwara (Fr.) 
Zeke Motta (Sr.) 



41 matthias Farley (so.) starter against navy. While fans have not dersized front should not be an issue. 
S
Kapron Lewis-Moore (Gr.) 
seen Golson in action since the blue-Gold EDGE: NOTRE DAME 

DE 
91 sheldon day (Fr.) 


Dan Fox (Sr.) Game in April, he promises to add arm 

ILB 
59 Jarrett Grace (so.) 

Louis Nix (Jr.) strength and a running dimension to the IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 
NT 
96 Kona schwenke (Jr.) 


Manti Te’o (Sr.) notre dame offense. After two years under brian Kelly, the 

ILB 
59 Jarrett Grace (so.) 

DE 
Stephon Tuitt (So.) Golson will not have the benefit of Irish will finally be running an offense 
50 chase hounshell (so.) 

Jamoris Slaughter (Gr.) throwing to departed receiver michael that resembles his regimes at central 
24 chris salvi (sr.) 

S 
Floyd but he will have something close michigan and cininnati. Golson’s versa-
Prince Shembo (Jr.) 

OLB 
11 Ishaq Williams (so.) in senior tight end Tyler eifert. The Irish tility will give notre dame additional op-coaching staff plans on using the 6-foot-tions in Kelly’s spread offense. 6 Fort Wayne, Ind., native in a variety of navy, meanwhile, has given up at least 

Bennett Jackson (Jr.) 
ways this season, including split out wide 38 points in three of its last eight games, 

CB 
21 Jalen brown (so.) 
against smaller defenders. his versatility dating back to last year. and athleticism will cause fits for navy’s EDGE: NOTRE DAME undersized secondary, whose biggest starter weighs in at just 196 pounds. IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS 
T.J.Jones (Jr.) 

WR 
16 
expect some mistakes out of Golson but senior kicker nick Tausch will make his 
davaris daniels (so.) 
his receving corps should be too much for return to the playing field after the depar-
Robby Toma (Sr.) 

LT 

19 davonte’ neal (Fr.) the midshipmen. ture of david ruffer and a solid camp, ac-EDGE: NOTRE DAME cording to the coaching staff. Following a rough start to last season, senior ben Turk Zack Martin (Sr.) IRISH RUSHING continuously improved as the season pro-
WR 

78 ronnie stanley (Fr.) 
Last year, notre dame ran for an un-gressed although the Irish may not need 
Theo Riddick (Sr.) 
Chris Watt (Sr.) 


65 conor hanratty (so.) 
4 George Atkinson (so.) real seven touchdowns against navy. him much saturday — notre dame punted Amazingly enough, due to graduation just once during last year’s game. 
RBLG 

Everett Golson (So.) 
Braxston Cave (Gr.) 

C 
57 mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) QB 
12 Andrew hendrix (Jr.) and suspensions, sophomore running Irish fans will be delighted to see fa-
RG 

Mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) back George Atkinson is the only player miliar face George Atkinson (and his two 
65 conor hanratty (so.) 
on saturday’s roster that scored in the six-return touchdowns from 2011) returning 

RT 

Christian Lombard (Jr.) touchdown romp. Atkinson will see plenty kickoffs while freshman davonte’ neal 
72 nick martin (so.) 


of carries as the bigger back while senior will handle the punt return duties. notre 
TE 
Tyler Eifert (Sr.) Theo riddick will earn the lion’s share of dame managed just three total yards on 
18 ben Koyack (so.) 
action after senior cierre Wood’s suspen-punt returns during the regular season in sion. Golson’s ability to run should also 2011. 

WR 

John Goodman (Gr.) pose problems for the navy defense. EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
87 daniel smith (Jr.) 
despite the lack of returning experience in the backfield, notre dame has one big IRISH SCHEDULE advantage — literally. The Irish offensive sept. 1 vs. Navy line returns four players who saw sig-sept. 8 Purdue nificant playing time during last season’s sept. 15 @ Michigan St. eight-win campaign. Anchored by gradu-sept. 22 Michigan 


Kyle Brindza (So.) 
Nick Tausch (Sr.) 


40 nick Tausch (sr.) 
27 Kyle brindza (so.) ate student center braxston cave, the of-oct. 6 vs. Miami 
KO 
PK 
fensive line has only one member under oct. 13 Stanford 
George Atkinson (So.) 
Ben Turk (Sr.) 

KR 
6 Theo riddick (sr.) P 
27 Kyle brindza (so.) 300 pounds. The midshipmen, mean-BYU 
oct. 20 

PR 
LS 

Davonte’ Neal (Fr.) while, have no players weighing more than oct. 27 @ Oklahoma 
Jordan Cowart (Sr.) 


61 scott daly (Fr.) 81 John Goodman (Gr.) 
300 pounds. nov. 3 Pittsburgh 
The navy front seven also suffered a big nov. 10 @ Boston College blow when projected starter and sopho-nov. 17 Wake Forest more outside linebacker suffered a knee nov. 24 @ USC 


Andrew Gastelum 
Associate sports editor 
since last season there have been a lot of headlines swirling around the Irish, and most of them have nothing to do with football: Key players leaving the program, sus­pensions to big names, controversial jersey designs and even a trip to play the season opener across the pond. The real question is: Are the Irish prepared for the season? 
With all the distractions, we will see very soon how much this Irish team has progressed and matured since last season in a key year for the Kelly campaign. one can never tell with navy, but the fact that notre dame has had the preseason to prepare for the midshipmen’s distinct offense is a definite advantage. Look for the Irish rushing attack to have a field day against a defense that gave up seven rushing touchdowns in last year’s matchup. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 30, navy 10 


Matthew DeFranks 
Associate sports editor 
nothing screams “Welcome to college football season” more than a season-opening game in dublin. no? okay, you’re right. The game yells something more like “Instead of beating navy in America, we’ll give them some hope in europe.” 
The hype surrounding this game, its setting, its shoes and its quarterbacks have overshadowed some simple facts: notre dame will be starting a first-year quarter­back without its starting running back while trotting out an inexperienced secondary. Good thing none of that matters when you play navy’s porous run defense and its option attack on offense. 
everett Golson will make some mistakes but he can af­ford to against a service academy in the season opener. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 27, navy 13 




Eifert, Te’o among four captains selected 
it’s like a dream come true. It’s a 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Associate sports editor big responsibility but I am going 
to keep being me … I’m just go-
Traditionally, team captains ing to keep being Kapron-Lewis are the vocal engines of a well-moore. I’m going to keep be-oiled machine. As the focal ing loud, keep bringing the en-points of a huddle, they holler at ergy. I might do a couple dance their teammates in practice and moves.” roar across the white lines be-Te’o, a consensus preseason fore and after the whistle. All-American after consecutive 
but notre dame’s four cap-125-plus tackle seasons, issued tains — linebacker manti Te’o, a similar vow in hopes of inspir­tight end Tyler eifert, offensive ing his teammates after turning tackle Zack martin and defen-down a projected first-round se­sive end Kapron Lewis-moore — lection in April’s nFL draft. were at a loss for words, simply “I think a captain is just a title. humbled as the next to be added That’s just a title you’re given. to the exclusive index of Irish For me, I’ve always tried to be a captaincy. great leader,” he said. “The title 
“I wasn’t expecting it to be of being captain doesn’t change honest with you,” Te’o said. “I the way I do things. I’m still go­wasn’t really thinking about it ing to try to [help] my team­… I was really humbled. I never mates the best way I know how, thought it would happen. [I was] both on and off the field and be just [a kid] coming from hawaii, an example to them and just do trying to make his name, do well what I can to help us win.” in football and help his team Like Te’o, martin has started win.” every game the past two sea-
Irish coach brian Kelly and the sons. A model of consistency at rest of the coaching staff deliv-left tackle, martin flatly denied ered the unexpected announce-being the rah-rah member of an ment monday after practice. offensive line that cleared the 
“I think what struck me more way for a rushing attack averag­than anything else is when they ing 4.8 yards per carry in 2011. got up before their teammates “I would say I am more of and the things they said about an example guy,” martin said. 
“maybe more vocal to the o-line 
… When I see an opportunity 
“It’s one thing to be 
where I need to be vocal, I will 
named captain, 
be. but besides that I will be an but it’s another example guy.” thing for your eifert said he walks a similar route as the left tackle he often 
teammates to 
lines up next to. The 6-foot-6 
come up to you 
tight end had a breakout 2011 
and tell you that with 803 receiving yards and 
you deserve it.”” five touchdowns and 90 recep­
tions, earning him a finalist 
Manti Te’o 
nomination for the John mackey 
Irish linebacker 
Award given to the nation’s top 
tight end. being a captain at notre dame,” “It’s pretty cool [to be a cap-Kelly said. ”In one particular tain]. I’ve never really even instance, [Lewis-moore] was dreamed of being in this posi­brought to tears. You love to see tion, but it’s great to actually be the passion and love for notre [a captain]. It’s really quite an dame and their teammates.” honor,” eifert said. “I told [the 
even the usually vociferous team] that they can expect the Lewis-moore was stunned. The same thing that I’ve done my same lineman who quickly be-whole time here and that I’m go-came known as the unofficial ing to come to work every day voice of the Leprechaun Legion with a positive attitude and a for his intimidating antics in good work ethic. I just want to the front row of basketball be someone who can be reliable games this past year struggled and accountable.” to find the words to describe his Te’o, meanwhile, said the big-emotions. gest honor wasn’t the prover­
“I was just thinking about bial “c” he received from his five years ago coming here as a coaches, but the encourage­225-pound supposedly outside ment and support he received linebacker and now it is just an from his teammates just before unbelievable journey … The his last season opener in an Irish whole day was just a big emo-uniform. tion for me. Thinking how far “It’s one thing to be named I’ve come and what I’ve been captain, but it’s another things through.” for your teammates to come up 
After recording a career-high to you and tell you that you de­62 tackles in 2010, the graduate serve it,” Te’o said. student senior suffered a sea-“Them coming up to me and son-ending knee injury oct. 22 telling me I deserve it meant during the 31-17 loss to Usc. but more to me than the title be­Lewis-moore said neither the cause it goes to show that I injury nor his newfound cap-earned their respect and I taincy will change his mental-earned their trust and now I just ity heading into his final season have got to keep doing what I am with the Irish. doing.” 
“I really can’t explain it. It’s something I’m so humbled Contact Andrew Gastelum at about. being here for five years, agastel1@nd.edu 




ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2012 | The observer 


Navy triple option to challenge defense 

Observer File Photo 

Former Irish cornerback Robert Blanton wraps up Navy ballcarrier Bo Snelson during  Notre Dame’s 56-14 victory over the Midshipmen on Oct. 29, 2011. Notre Dame and Navy will kick off the 2012 season Saturday in the long-awaited Emerald Isle Classic in Dublin, the 86th meeting between the schools. 
35 points twice and allowed the victories, winning by an average midshipmen. through the air to keep the Irish 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 

Associate sports editor midshipmen to rush for at least of nearly 31 points. miller earned his first and from stacking the box against the 257 yards in each victory. heading into this year’s only career start against notre midshipmen’s green backfield. before last season’s 56-14 since oct. 23, 2010, when navy opener, navy will be break-dame during navy’s 42-point senior slot back Gee Gee 
drubbing of navy, notre dame beat notre dame 35-17, Irish de-ing in a new quarterback after loss a year ago. miller was 5-for-Greene, however, will help sta­
had lost three of the previ-fensive coordinator bob diaco losing departed signal caller 13 for 33 yards through the air bilize a navy offense under  new 
ous four games against the has seemed to figure out how to Kriss Proctor, who was the only while rushing for 55 yards dur-direction. 
midshipmen because of one key stop the triple option. The Irish midshipmen player to top 1,000 ing the defeat. “[Greene] makes their offense 
culprit — the triple option. have played three option teams yards on the ground in 2011. navy will not only need have that ability to get on the pe-In the three losses, the Irish since then (Army, Air Force and Junior Trey miller will take the miller’s production on the rimeter,” Irish coach brian Kelly 
failed to hold navy to less than navy again) and earned three reins of the option attack for the ground but also his prowess said. “so it’s going to be a great opportunity for us.  I’m excited to see our football team play.” Greene, who caught four touchdown passes in 2011, is also a threat to catch the ball out of the backfield. With lead­ing returning receiver brandon Turner not traveling with the team, Greene’s 11 receptions from a year ago are the most by any midshipman playing in dublin on saturday. Unlike most offenses, navy’s attack features four players (the quarterback, the fullback and the two slot backs) that will car­ry the ball. Their scheme relies on misdirection and deception that has fooled the Irish before. “[navy is a] very difficult op­ponent to play, especially in your opener, but any time,” Kelly said. “Ken niumatalolo, great coach, obviously does as well as any­body in the country at taking his talent and getting it to execute on both sides of the ball, and they have shown that they can do that week in and week out.” navy also loses former full­back Alexander Teich, who torched notre dame two years ago for 210 yards in helping the midshipmen compile 367 rush­ing yards. Unproven sopho­more noah copeland will try to replace Teich at fullback. copeland only had two carries during his freshman campaign. starting opposite Greene at the other slot back position will be senior John howell, who had 340 yards rushing last season. The Irish will try to stop the tri­ple option for the second straight year when they open their sea­son against the midshipmen on saturday morning at 9 a.m. 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 



PAId AdverTIsemenT 


Rev. RiCHARD CiziK  mOSt Rev. JOSepH e.  eLDeR DALLiN H. OAKS  RABBi DAviD  pAStOR RiCK WARReN  
President, New Evangelical  KURtz, D.D.  Member of the Quorum  SApeRSteiN  Founder, Saddleback  
Partnership for the Common Good  Archbishop of Louisville  of the Twelve Apostles, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints  Director and Counsel, Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism  Church, Lake Forest, Cal. Author, The Purpose Driven Life  

Conviction & Compromise: 
BEING A PERSON OF FAITH IN A LIBERAL DEMOCRACY 

Sept. 4, 2012 

OF AMERICA’S 


7:00 p.m. eDt 
Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo performing Arts Center 
The 2012–13 Notre Dame Forum begins with a panel discussion featuring some of the 

FORUm.ND.eDU nation’s most prominent religious leaders. 
CO-mODeRAteD By: 
DAviD CAmpBeLL m. CAtHLeeN KAveNy 
Professor of Political The John P. Murphy Foundation Professor Science of Law and Professor of Theology 
This is a free but ticketed event. Those presenting a valid Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s College, or Holy Cross College ID may obtain two tickets per person from the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office window beginning Wednesday, Aug. 29. Beginning Friday, Aug. 31, two tickets per person will also be available to the general public. Please visit the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office during regular ticket office hours, noon–6 p.m. Monday–Friday. Note that the ticket office will be closed on Monday, Sept. 3, in observance of Labor Day. 








