
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students march for life in D.C. 
Notre Dame’s Right to Life club participates in annual anti-abortion protest 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
More than 300 Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students braved a 15-hour journey to Washington, D.C. this weekend to support a cause they believe in. 
These students participated in the annual anti-abortion March for Life rally on Mon­day, marking the anniversary of the 1973 Supreme Court ruling on Roe v. Wade. 
Junior Chris Damian par­ticipated in the March for Life through Notre Dame’s Right to Life Club. He said it is im­portant to show solidarity with the pro-life movement. 
“For me, being pro-life means recognizing the inher­ent dignity of all human be­ings,” Damian said. “It means protecting the lives of the un­born, helping women in crisis pregnancies, showing women that abortion is not their only choice and respecting men and women in my daily life … I want to show men and wom­en that they are loved and supported and to help other pro-lifers to be able to pro­vide that love and support.” 
Five buses of students left for Washington, D.C. on Fri­day evening, and another three buses left Sunday eve­ning, Damian said. The stu­dents stayed at St. Agnes Catholic Church in Arlington, Va. 
Sophomore Chelsea Mer­riman said Bishop Kevin Rhoades of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend celebrated Mass with the students Sun­day. The Notre Dame commu­nity celebrated another Mass with University President Fr. John Jenkins on Monday. 
Merriman said that later on Monday, students participat­ed in a demonstrated march from the National Mall to the Supreme Court. She said the 


see MARCH/page 4 




ND honors 20th anniv. of accident 
Observer Staff Report 
A Mass of Remembrance for the two Notre Dame stu­dents who died in a swim­ming team bus accident 20 years ago will take place to­day at 8 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins will preside over the Mass and Univer­sity President Emeritus Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy will deliver the homily. 
Twenty years ago today, a bus was bringing the Irish women’s swimming team back to campus from a meet at Northwestern University in the middle of a heavy snowstorm when it slid off the Indiana Toll 

see MEMORIAL/page 4 



Student government hosts annual Majors Night 
By Christian Myers 
News Writer 
The East Wing of South Dining Hall was loud, busy and full of students Monday night, but not because of the dinnertime rush. 
Approximately 600 students attended the seventh annual Majors Night, organized by student government’s aca­demic affairs department and held from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Neal Ravindra, chair of the academic affairs committee, said information was pro­vided about the many majors available on campus, but also about minors, research op­portunities, opportunities to volunteer, internships and scholarships. 
“The primary purpose was to answer any questions stu­dents may have about their course of study at Notre Dame and to allow students to learn about opportunities outside the classroom — to both less­en confusion and to inform,” Ravindra said. 


see MAJORS/page 4 




Professor discusses Chinese economy, relationship to U.S. 
By Caitlin Housley “Chi na, 
decades of very strong economic going to China and our younger ers in the United States who Saint Mary’s Editor before the 
growth. “ generation is going to owe all could be making those items, 1980s, was 
Measell called the feat “re-this money to them.’ So, [China or who might have in the past, Though the Chinese economy a really poor 
markable.” is cast] in a villain-type way.” well, those jobs aren’t here and has grown in recent years, caus-country,” he 
“It’s not unusual that under-Skeptics worry that as the those goods are made in China ing some fear that China will said. “[About 
developed countries would have economy in China increases instead. “ threaten America’s economy, a that same 
pretty good growth patterns,” he and the United States economy Measell said Americans must Saint Mary’s professor said Chi-time,] they put 
said. “But for China to do it for so struggles, more jobs will be out-come to terms with this reality na’s growth should be viewed in in more of long, and for the growth to be sourced overseas, but Measell and view the situation in a posi­a more positive light. a free mar-so strong each time, it’s quite said there are benefits to China’s tive light. While some jobs are 
Richard Measell, professor of ket economy remarkable.” economic increase. being lost, others are being cre-Business and Economics, said with less But Measell said some crit-“[Americans] benefit a lot ated. China has recently surpassed government ics, especially in the United [from the growth] because we “On the one side, the produc­both Japan and Germany to be-control, and States, find China’s growth get relatively lower-cost items,” tion for American companies is come the second largest econ-they let free threatening. he said. “It’s sort of a win-lose overseas, and that helps China, omy in the world, increasing enterprise flourish in some ar-“China gets picked on a lot thing.  Consumers win because growth around 10 percent an-eas.  From that, they have really by politicians,” he said. “Cam-they get lower-cost items made nually. grown.  They’ve really had three paigning, they say, ‘Our jobs are in China, but then the work-see CHINA/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER NDFCU internship page 6 u Viewpoint page 8 u Snoop Dogg page 11 u Women’s basketball defeats Tenn. page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Tuesday, January 24, 2012 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: DESCRIBE YOUR LOVE LIFE BY OPENING A BOOK TO PAGE 47 AND READING THE FIRST LINE. 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 

Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Yitong Zheng  Katie Riojas  Mary McKenna  Mariko Seilie  Matt Ong  Chase Riddle  
senior  senior  senior  senior  senior  senior  
off-campus  Breen-Phillips  off-campus  Breen-Phillips  off-campus  Keenan  
“Jack and Maggie Turton bought a  “Umm... I don’t... I’m not supposed  “OEDIPUS THE KING.”  “Haymitch can well be  “Still, she rolls, only to have  “Buried how long?  And the  
house in Jefferson  to talk to  the difference  them fall back  answer was  
County, Idaho, located directly  strangers.”  between your life and death!”  down; they drag like the ankle  almost always, ‘18 years.’”  
across the street  cuffs of a chain  
from a gravel pit.”  gang.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Sara Felsenstein Nicole Michels Adam Llorens 

Graphics 
Lauren Kalinoski 

Photo 
Tom La 


Sports 

Molly Sammon Joseph Monado Conor Kelly 

Scene 

Maija Gustin 

Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 


OFFBEAT 
Policeman fired for smoking 
NEWBERN, Tenn. — A Tennessee police depart­ment says it has fired an of­ficer after 17 years on the force because he repeatedly smoked cigarettes inside the precinct in violation of the city’s no smoking policy. 
Newbern police Sgt. James Bishop was termi­nated last week. A 2007 city policy prohibits smoking inside all municipal offices and buildings. 
According to the termina­tion letter obtained by the State Gazette, Police Chief Harold Dunivant said he had complaints that his em­ployees were smoking in­side their offices and issued a warning that disciplinary 


LOCAL WEATHER 
action could be taken. 

Dunivant said he contin­ued to get complaints about Bishop smoking indoors and was forced to fire him. 
A phone number that the city of Newbern had on re­cord Bishop him was dis­connected, and messages left by The Associated Press at other listings for James Bishop weren’t immediately returned. 
Alaska woman uses shovel to fend off moose 
ANCHORAGE, Ala. — An 85-year-old Alaska woman used a grain shovel to fend off an agitated moose that was stomping her husband. 
George Murphy says his wife saved his life. 
The Anchorage Daily News says the 82-year-old pilot, who flew for three de­cades for the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race, was hiking with his golden retrievers near the Willow airport Friday. He saw the moose and dove in the snow, but the moose started stomping him. 
His wife, Dorothea, who is 5 feet tall and weighs 97 pounds, grabbed a big shov­el and hit the moose in the body and head. 
She ran for help, and Mur­phy was rushed by medical helicopter to an Anchorage hospital. He was in good condition Monday with a gash to his head. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Today is the final day to change classes. 
The Departmenr of Aero­space and Mechanical Engi­neering will host a seminar titled “Cellular Blood Flow in Small Vessels” today from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall. Professor Jonathon B. Freund of the University of Illinois Urba­na-Champaign will deliver the seminar. 
Auditions to read for Ju­nior Parents Weekend will be held today in the Basili­ca of the Sacred Heart at 4 p.m. 
The Notre Dame Manage­ment Club is offering Winter Career Fair prep today at 7 
p.m. in 116 DeBartolo Hall. There will be peer-to-peer advice for freshmen and sophomores on the Career Fair, resume writing and networking. 

A workshop titled “using Mendeley” will be held at 4 
p.m. today in Room 247 of the Hesburgh Library. The workshop will teach how to use Mendeley to organize and generate bibliographies. Resfreshments will be pro­vided. 
There will be a Memo­rial Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart today at 8 p.m. in remembrance of Meghan Beeler and Col­leen Hipp, student-athletes on the Notre Dame women’s swimming team who lost their lives in a bus accident on Jan. 24, 1992. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 











CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
HIGH 30 LOW 27 

HIGH 36 LOW 29 
HIGH 41 LOW 27 
HIGH 40 LOW 28 
HIGH 28 LOW 21 

Tuesday, January 24, 2012 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Saint Mary’s to provide exclusive on-campus housing for seniors 
By Tabitha Ricketts 
News Writer 
New living accommodations for Saint Mary’s seniors will be available next year, as Regina South will be opened exclu­sively as on-campus housing for seniors. 
Janielle Tchakerian, director of Residence Life and Commu­nity Standards at Saint Mary’s, said the College is “very excit­ed” to offer this opportunity to the students. 
“It’s a privilege for their se­nior year,” she said. 
The updates to the residence hall include 36 available single rooms, a visitation policy to match that of Opus Hall, the only other senior-exclusive res­idence on campus, a reduced meal plan requirement and the acceptance of pets weighing un­der 30 pounds. 
“For some students it’s a great comfort,” Tchakerian said. “It allows them to bring a family pet from home to live with them in their last year.” 
Tchakerian said to accommo­date students’ pets, the South courtyard will become a “pet friendly” yard. 
“We know that they can’t just be cooped up inside their rooms,” she said. 
She said she has already seen a positive response from rising seniors during two information sessions, some of which have expressed interest in rooming with pets such as cats, dogs, rabbits and hedgehogs. 
In addition to allowing pets, the new Regina South will also offer seniors more space. 
Each of the 36 rooms will be 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



Group addresses GLBTQ inclusion 
By Nicole Toczauer doesn’t meet the needs, we News Writer should work within the system 
to make what we do meet the 
In its first meeting of the needs.” spring semester, Campus Life Diversity Council represen-Council (CLC) discussed the tative Alexa Arastoo said she continuation of last semester’s would not want to see a gay-efforts to expand inclusion, straight alliance become a improve school spirit and cre-part of Core Council. She said ate a safer campus. a completely student-run or-
Student body president Pat ganization would allow more McCormick first invited mem-opportunities for leadership, bers to voice their opinions on and would allow the group to the possibility of a peer sup-branch out more. port group for a gay-straight “Having a club on the stu­alliance on Notre Dame’s cam-dent level changes the culture. pus. It’s where we get involved and 
“Is there a foreseeable future know what’s going on,” Arastoo for a gay-straight group if it said. “This isn’t just a tutoring 
took place with- or  inter- 
in the bounds of  est  club,  
Catholic  moral  it’s part of  
teaching?”  he  their  per- 
asked. “The work  “We need to work out  son.”  
of  Campus  Life  how we could contribute  Mc C o r ­ 
Council has fo­cused on expand­ing inclusion, and this is one set of recommen­ constructively to inclusion and recognize the sensitivities on all sides of this.”  mick said the Fac­ulty Senate expressed strong sup­ 
dations that has evolved, nota- Pat McCormick  port for the p r o p o s e d  
bly with the 4-5  student body president  group  and  


offered as a single, includ­ing rooms that were previously offered as quads or doubles. Regular-sized singles will be parceled together as a two-room suite, Tchakerian said. 
The building that used to house the smallest singles on campus will now house the largest, she said. 
Each floor will have a micro­wave and refrigerator available, as well as a shared single-room for storage. 
“For a lot of our students, moving off-campus loses finan­cial aid,” Tchakerian said. “We wanted to make an affordable option on campus. Because Re­gina South is [currently] not occupied, we decided to look at it and see if we could make it more attractive for our rising seniors.” 
There will be a special room selection for seniors on Feb. 1, during which names will be drawn in a lottery first for Opus housing, then for Regi­na South, following the same process. 
“So they don’t have to wait until April to find out where they are going to live,” Tchakerian said. “Those stu­dents who might be on the fence about living off-cam­pus will know.” 
The class of 2013 will be the first to try out the new arrangement and policies regarding pets. 
“The most attractive part of Regina South is the new rooming and meal plan,” Tchakerian said. “This is a great compromise in meet­ing [students’] needs.” 
Contact tabitha Ricketts at ricke01@nd.edu 
Movement.” 
Sr. Sue Dunn, assistant vice president of Stu­dent Affairs, said the Core Council for Gay, Les­bian, Bisexual and Question­ing Students is currently the main venue through which the University’s Spirit of Inclusion is upheld. 
“It is a blend of students and administrative types. We have someone representing Student Affairs, the Gender Relations Center, the Counseling Center and Campus Ministry,” she said. “We also have eight stu­dents, most of whom identify as GLBT and some heterosex­ual allies, who build a network and programs.” 
She said the issue is that many students perceive the Core Council to be directly aligned with Notre Dame’s ad­ministration. 
“Certainly, there has been at times a tension, but more and more student-run activities happen, especially now that we have a space,” Dunn said. “We feel that certainly there is a greater growth in under­standing on campus.” 
Dunn said if a gay-straight alliance were recognized and kept with the mission of the University, it could join the coalition created by the Core Council. 
“The coalition consists of like-minded groups we can work with, so people can be more involved,” she said. “I certainly think there is the op­portunity for a formal group, but were it not there, it would still exist informally through reaching out.” 
Fr. Tom Gaughan, rector of Stanford Hall, said if a group were approved, it should work within the existing structure the University has created to meet the needs of the LGBTQ community. 
“There’s always been the logical code of sexual conduct guided by natural law, but the Church has always lived with the pastoral response,” he said. “Coming from the stand­point of pastorally, what are the needs? If what exists now that CLC 
would re­
quest a 
meeti ng 
with repre­sentatives from the 4-5 Move­ment to discuss the possibili­ties further. 
“We need to work out how we could contribute constructive­ly to inclusion and recognize the sensitivities on all sides of this,” he said. 
CLC also discussed the in­corporation of a student advi­sory council into the Athletic Department. 
Jay Mathes, co-chair of Hall Presidents’ Council, said the council would offer opportuni­ties to students who might be interested in pursuing a career in sports. The council would also work as a sounding board, he said. 
“We could see how people on campus feel about things like playing music in the stadium turf fields and a megatron,” he said. 
McCormick said the group would incorporate residential life through work with Hall Presidents’ Council and other groups such as the Leprechaun Legion. 
“It’s an exciting opportunity for students interested in ath­letics,” he said. “It would be an ideal venue to relay our con­cerns and work on pep rallies and school spirit. 
CLC wrapped up its meet­ing with a quick discussion on safety. 
Chief of staff Claire Sokas said Notre Dame Security Po­lice is working on providing a mobile app that would be available to students. 
McCormick said working with local law enforcement on projects such as this one helped build relationships and create a sense of accountabil­ity on all sides. 
“We all have an interest in keeping the community safe and take pride living in it,” he said. “We’ve been in conversa­tion to mitigate anything get­ting out of hand.” 


Contact Nicole toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Tuesday, January 24, 2012 
ger said he is not sure what 


Majors 
course of study he wants to fol-


March 

low, and went to Majors Night to continued from page 1 learn more about the different 
continued from page 1 

opportunities. “I’m unsure about what ma­“[I went] to check out all of the jor I want. I just switched from 
pated in a demonstrated majors and minors that interest the business school to political 
march from the Nation-me,” he said. “I think they did science, but I’m also looking at 
al Mall to the Supreme a great job of displaying infor-other possible Arts and Letters 
Court. She said the pur­mation and having people talk majors,” Neuberger said. “I offi­
pose of the march was about the experience of the stu-cially declared as a political sci-
to say, “We are here, we dents in each program.” ence major today, so I came here 
aren’t going away and Freshman Ashley Armstrong to grab some of the information 
this is a cause that’s very said she knows she wants to sheets they are handing out.” 
important to a lot of us.” study engineering, but she is not Ravindra said the event is also 
Junior Ellen Carroll sure what kind. important for various members 
said Notre Dame was a “I enjoyed the time I spent of the Notre Dame faculty. 
strong presence at this here and talked to a lot of people “It allows faculty to dissemi­
year’s March for Life. about engineering,” she said. nate information about their 
“We had people com­“I also talked to someone from departments, meet new students 
ing up to us really excited CUSE; it was very informative and recruit students,” he said. 
that we were there from and I now plan to apply for fund-Program of Liberal Studies 
Notre Dame, and I liked ing so I can do research in Lon-(PLS) professor Tom Stapleford 
being able to go with the don over the summer. I didn’t said Majors Night is a great way 
University,” she said. know Notre Dame would pay for for the department to reach out 
The issue of abortion is something like that.” to students. 
very relevant to the South Ravindra said the majority of “Not many students know 
Bend community, Damian the students in attendance were about the Program of Liberal 
said. freshmen. Studies. It is a great way for us to 
“On the bus ride down He said traditionally, not many get the word out to students and 
here, we each received sophomores, juniors or seniors a great opportunity for them to 
a card with the name of attend the event, even though ask questions of us,” Stapleford 
a child aborted in South many groups were represented said. 
Bend last year and the at the event, all of which offer Students were asked to com-
date of that abortion,” he valuable opportunities to upper-plete and submit a survey about 
said. “I think that card classmen. their experience at the event and 
really solidified the issue He also said students who Ravindra said the results will be 
for a lot of us ... This isn’t already have a major can still used to maintain and improve 
just an abstract issue or come to learn about other aca-the event in the future. 
one in a country across demic opportunities. “The survey allows us to see 
the globe. This is a real “It is the best and quickest what’s working and what’s not 
issue happening down the way for upperclassmen to learn working,” Ravindra said. 
street from our campus.” about adding minors or concen-
Damian said the close-thing to see how many peo-tant about the lack of re­trations,” Ravindra said. Contact Christian Myers at 
ness of the issue was ple could come together to spect [for the area],” she Sophomore Michael Neuber-cymers8@nd.edu 
another reason he par-support their beliefs on an said. 
ticipated in the March for issue,” Carroll said. The March for Life was 
Life. Merriman said sometimes still a very positive experi­
“I want to march for the it is disheartening to see ence, Merriman said. 
have a big budget deficit prob-
child on my card and for participants in the March “It’s a very high-energy 
his family,” he said. for Life leave their posters event,” she said. “There’s a 
has been a little bit more cau-

China 

lem … and it seems like China 
Carroll said she enjoyed and trash on the ground af-lot of solidarity … If we keep continued from page 1 tious about that,” Measell said. 
meeting people from ter the event. doing this, we will make a “But we’ll have to see how that 
across the country with “I support the pro-life change.” goes.” 
a range of opinions about mission [and] I like the soli­but those companies need oth-With such success for so long, 
abortion. darity in the march, but I Contact Marisa Iati at er people to be [in America] to others worry China will see an 
“It was just a very cool sometimes feel really hesi-miati@nd.edu sell the items, and run the com-economic crisis similar to Ja­pany,” he said. “So that creates pan’s in the 1990s. Measell said jobs here.” he hopes this will not be the 
Additionally, Measell said case, not just for America’s ben­when China’s economy is strong, efit, but also for the world’s. it encourages consumers to buy “I’m hoping this will be an-more American luxury goods or other good year for China, and goods from Europe, helping to for people to realize that that’s aid both struggling economies. a good thing for Americans,” he 
Measell said critics also worry said. “Even though China’s econ-that this strong economy will omy is the second largest in the encourage China to reconsider world, compared to the whole helping America with its nation-world, it’s still relatively small. al debt. If China does well, they’ll help 
“China has about 8 percent out the rest of the world. They’ve of our national debt, and [crit-been a positive force that way.” ics are] always concerned about whether China will keep on Contact Caitlin Housely at lending us money because we chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
other swimmers, coaches 


Memorial 

and staff were injured, ac­cording to a University press continued from page 1 release. The press release stated 
that today’s Mass will be it slid off the Indiana Tol-held in memory of Beeler and Road and rolled over. Hipp, in thanksgiving for 
Freshmen Meghan Beeler healing and in appreciation of Granger, Ind., and Colleen to members of the University Hipp from St. Louis, died in and local communities who the accident. Many of the responded to the accident. 





page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Tuesday, January 24, 2012 


NDFCU to offer paid internship in fall 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
Beginning next semester, the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union (NDFCU) will offer an internship program designed to give students real world ex­perience in the banking indus­expect to work four to seven hours per week. 
“If a student has a good expe­rience in the fall and wants to return in the spring, they would be able to come back as we bring in a set of new students,” he said. 
“Ther e 
is  no  set  
number  of  
students  we  


try. “The internship is tri-are taking, Jon Crawford, as we want 
fold where students are 
a 2010 Notre to penetrate 
learning about finance, 
Dame gradu-the campus 
building a body of work 
ate and Alumni to get the 
within finance and 
Relations Offi-awareness 
assisting with Notre 
cer for NDFCU, out across said the intern-Dame philanthropy.” the student ship would be a body.” chance for stu-Jon Crawford NDFCU is dents interested looking for 
NDFCU Alumni 
in banking to motivated, 
Relations Officer 
gain a variety of different skills. 
“The intern­ship is tri-fold where students are learning about finance, building a body of work within finance and assisting with Notre Dame philanthropy,” Crawford said. 
The new internship will begin in the Fall 2012 semester. Craw­ford said NDFCU is conducting piloting work this semester with the hope of discovering a strong team and “[making] sure they get the best possible experience going forward.” 
The internship will be com­pletely independent of the Uni­versity, Crawford said. 
“However, our hope is to in­tertwine it with class initiatives within the business school or possibly within the College of Arts & Letters,” he said. 
Since the internship is inde­pendent and wouldn’t be offered for academic credit, Crawford said students would be paid. 
“Interns will be working in­dependently and there will be no set schedule,” Crawford said. “We will meet in general areas on campus or at the credit union and [the interns] will be able to do work right from their own desk.” 
Crawford said students should driven stu­
dents to join 
their team 
and would 
be flexible for students with already busy schedules, Crawford said. 
“This internship is also good for students who are in the work-study program or are athletes, as the work would not interfere with academic or ath­letic commitments,” he said. “[The internship] will give a stu­dent something business-related on their resumé and something tangible to talk about in an in­terview.” 
Crawford said his personal goal for this new internship is to assist students interested in the financial industry to reach their full potential. 
“I graduated only two years ago and really care about help­ing students and young alumni get to their next step, be that anywhere in the country,” he said. 
Interested students can apply for an internship with NDFCU at the Winter Career Fair on Feb. 1 from 4 to 8 p.m. at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Students will then have access to the applica­tion on GO IRISH. 
Contact adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 




Senior designs major to fit interests 
By ANNE MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
Despite Notre Dame’s wide array of majors, some students struggle to find a course of study that perfectly matches their interests. 
For these students, the Col­lege of Arts and Letters offers the option of a self-designed major. 
Senior Anne Whitty is one student who took advantage of this option and designed her own program, called “Sustainable Policy and Develop­ment,” to comple­ment her second ma­jor in Environmental Science. 
“When I came to Notre Dame, I was already really in­terested in environ­mental issues and from freshman year, I got involved with environmental sci­ence,” Whitty said. “I knew I wanted to work in environ­mental policy or law, and ND has very strong environmen­tal and political science pro­grams, butthere’s no hybrid program that allows you to combine both.” 
During her sophomore year, Whitty spoke to Stuart Greene, associate professor of English and director of the Education, Schooling and Society minor, and began the process of de­signing her own major. Her desire to apply environmen­tal science to the larger world 
— involving political science, economics and business in her studies —led her to unite the typically isolated disciplines into a unique course of study. 
“I had to look at similar pro­grams at other schools and pull together a list of any classes that sounded both interesting and relevant to environmental policy and development,” Whitty said. “I met with professors and ad­visors to get their input and ap­proval throughout the process.” 
According to The College of Arts and Letters’ webpage, stu­dents interested in designing 


their own majors must write a proposal for their projected course of study and have it signed by three faculty sponsors from at least two separate departments. The Undergraduate Studies Ad­visory Committee reviews the proposal, which then needs to be approved by the dean. 
A capstone essay of between 30 and 50 pages in length must be completed during the stu­dent’s senior year. 
Students interested in design­ing their own major must comb through the course catalog to find relevant courses with a common theme, Whitty said. 
Whitty said the process has been stressful, but rewarding. 
“It took so much time, espe­cially working on the proposal during the beginning of my soph­omore year — I spent as much time working on it as I would put in for an entire course,” Whitty said. “But I think the biggest challenge was the self-discov­ery process — designing a cur­riculum really requires that you know what you want out of your education and take every possi­
ble oppor­tunity to meet your academic goals.” 
Whitty was able to fit a study abroad ex­perience in India into her plan, which she said played a major role in devel­oping her long-term goals. She said 
her senior thesis focuses on sus­tainable urban planning, and she intends to pursue a career in that field after graduation. 
“Notre Dame wants its stu­dents to graduate with a degree that will help them succeed in their chosen area,” Whitty said. “The faculty were so supportive in helping me to figure out the goals of my education and how to accomplish them … I’ve defi­nitely come to really appreciate my education, and I don’t take it for granted.” 

Contact anne Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 



Tuesday, January 24, 2012 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 



Archivist documents life of St. Mary’s alum 
Abigail Forney 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students had a unique chance to learn about their school’s history from Col­lege archivist John Kovach on Monday. 
Students gathered in the Student Center Lounge to hear Kovach speak while viewing images of past life at Saint Mary’s College.  Photos of old uniforms and boating events on Lake Marian populated the collection. 
The panels of pictures, sto­ries and poems in the ex­hibit centered on the life of a 1916 alumna, Dympna Bal­bach. During his lecture, Ko­vach described the life of Bal­bach through the photographs. 
“These photos tell a very in­teresting story about a woman that was always very close to Saint Mary’s,” Kovach said. 
Balbach attended Saint Mary’s to receive both her high school and college education, majoring in music. She had neither a career nor a husband after graduation. 
For a consecutive 55 years after her graduation, Balbach attended every year’s class reunion, meeting with up old friends and visiting the cam­pus. Because she came to cam­pus so often, the archives had several photos of Balbach and her friends throughout the years. 
Three days after the 1972 reunion, Balbach died at Saint Joseph Hospital in South Bend. Her will was discovered and she had left her entire estate, valued at more than $1 mil­lion, to Saint Mary’s. 
Balbach’s contribution was the College’s first donation over $1 million. 
The stories of other alum­nae can also be found in Saint Mary’s archives. One 1877 graduate went on to not only perform in Le Opera, but to also become a very influential opera columnist in a Chicago paper. 
Another graduate became an independent nurse during World War I, and afterward traveled to Algeria, Kovach said. 
“I’m continually finding new and interesting things,” Ko­vach said. 
This exploration of Saint Mary’s history was made pos­sible by the Student Govern­ment Association as part of Heritage Week. Other Heri­tage Week events include the Riedinger Tea, the Heritage Dinner, a scavenger hunt and S’mores with Sisters. 
Contact abigail Forney at aforne02@saintmarys.edu 



Ex-CIA man accused of leaking info 
Associated Press 

ALEXANDRIA, Va. — An ex-CIA officer who helped track down and capture a top al-Qaida figure was charged Monday with disclosing clas­sified secrets, including the role of one of his associates on that covert mission, in the lat­est of a series of prosecutions by the Obama administration against suspected leakers. 
John Kiriakou, 47, of Arling­ton, is charged with violating the Intelligence Identities Pro­tection Act and the Espionage Act. A federal judge ordered Kiriakou to be released on a $250,000 unsecured bond. Kiriakou declined to comment as he left the courthouse Mon­day. 
According to authorities, Kiriakou divulged to three journalists, including a New York Times reporter, the role of “Officer B,” who worked with Kiriakou on the capture of suspected al-Qaida finan­cier Abu Zubaydah in the months after the Sept. 11 ter­rorist attacks. 
Zubaydah was waterboard­ed 83 times, and his case has been made an example by those who believe the inter­rogation technique should be outlawed. And Kiriakou’s pub­lic discussions of Zubaydah’s waterboarding were a key part of the debate. 
In a separate accusation, Kiriakou is alleged to have disclosed the identity of a co­vert operator to an unidenti­fied journalist. Authorities say that journalist then gave the officer’s name to a team of de­fense lawyers representing a suspect the U.S. held at Guan­tanamo Bay in Cuba. When the lawyers included information about the officer in a sealed legal brief in 2009, the CIA be­came suspicious and the gov­ernment began to investigate. 
The affidavit states that the defense lawyers were found to have done nothing wrong. 
According to the affida­vit, FBI agents interviewed Kiriakou last week, and he denied leaking the informa­tion. When specifically asked whether he had provided the Zubaydah interrogator’s name to the Times for a 2008 article, he replied “Heavens, no.” A New York Times spokeswom­an declined to comment. 
Kiriakou’s attorney, Plato Cacheris, told reporters af­ter the hearing that his client will plead not guilty. He also said a potential defense argu­ment could be that the charges criminalize conduct that has been common between report­ers and government sources for decades. 
If convicted, Kiriakou could face up to 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine. 
The case was secretly inves­tigated by a top federal pros­ecutor, U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald of the Northern District of Illinois. Fitzgerald is best known for his success­ful prosecutions of Scooter Libby, former Vice President Dick Cheney’s chief of staff, for perjury and of Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich for corrup­tion. 
Kiriakou has worked as a consultant to ABC News, al­though he hasn’t appeared on the network since early 2009. ABC declined to comment on his arrest. In a 2007 interview with the network, Kiriakou said that waterboarding was used — effectively — to break down Zubaydah. But he ex­pressed ambivalence about pouring water into a suspect’s breathing passages to simu­late drowning to try to get them to talk. 
“(W)e were really trying to do anything that we could to stop another major attack from happening,” Kiriakou said, describing the months after the Sept. 11 attacks. “I don’t think we’re in that mind­set right now. ... And, as a re­sult, waterboarding, at least right now, is unnecessary.” 
The attorney who represents Zubaydah in the prisoner’s civ­il petition for release said he is not involved in the Kiriakou prosecution and has never met him. However, Brent Mickum said he had wanted to inter­view Kiriakou for information that might help the case, but the ex-CIA man refused, by email, to speak with him. 



Republican frontrunners clash in Monday’s Florida debate 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. — Republican presidential contenders Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich clashed repeatedly in heated, personal terms Monday night in a crackling campaign de­bate, the former Massachu­setts governor tagging his rival as a Washington “in­fluence peddler,” only to be accused in turn of spreading falsehoods over many years in politics. 
“You’ve been walking around the state saying things that are untrue,” Gin­grich told his rival in a two-hour debate marked by oc­casional interruptions and finger-pointing. 
The event marked the first challenge Democratic Presi­dent Barack Obama this fall, and the next contest is the Jan. 31 Florida primary. 

With a week of campaign­ing ahead, Romney is expect­ed to release his income tax return for 2010 as well as an estimate for 2011 on Tuesday. He said it will show he paid all the taxes he was obligated to pay, adding, “I don’t think the voters want a president who pays more than he owes.” Following his defeat in South Carolina, Romney can ill afford to lose in Florida, and he was the aggressor encounter among the four stage — since Gingrich won from the opening moments remaining GOP contenders the South Carolina primary Monday night. He said Gin­
— former Pennsylvania Sen. in an upset last weekend. grich had “resigned in dis-Rick Santorum and Texas His double-digit victory re-grace” from Congress after Rep. Ron Paul shared the set the race to pick a rival to four years as speaker and then had spent the next 15 years “working as an influ­ence peddler.” 



In particular, he referred to the contract Gingrich’s consulting firm had with Freddie Mac, a government-backed mortgage giant that he said “did a lot of bad for a lot of people and you were working there.” 
Romney also said Gingrich had lobbied lawmakers to ap­prove legislation creating a new prescription drug ben­efit under Medicare. 
“I have never, ever gone and done any lobbying,” Gin­grich retorted emphatical­ly, adding that his firm had hired an expert to explain to employees “the bright line between what you can do as a citizen and what you do as a lobbyist.” 
Romney counterpunched, referring to the $300,000 that Gingrich’s consulting firm received in 2006 from Freddie Mac, the govern­ment-backed mortgage giant. 
And when Gingrich sought to turn the tables by inquir­ing about the private equity firm that Romney founded, the former Massachusetts governor replied: “We didn’t do any work with the govern­ment. ...I wasn’t a lobbyist.” 
As for the Medicare pre­scription drug benefit, Gin­grich expressed pride in having supported it. “It has saved lives. It’s run on a free enterprise model,” he said in a state that is home to mil­lions of seniors. 
Whatever the stated sub­ject, the debate’s subtext was character — and electability, the quality that Republican voters say consistently mat­ters most to them in the race. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, January 24, 2012 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Au revoir, 
France — 


hello, ND! 
“Merci,” I said to my Political Science professor as he handed me the course syllabus last week during our first class meeting. He gave me an odd look and contin­ued handing out papers to the rest of the class. 
Ten seconds later, I real­ized I had just spoken French to my Ameri­can professor. I could not stop laughing as I thought to myself, “Ma­ria, what are you doing? You are back at Notre Dame!” 
Last fall semester, I had the opportunity to study abroad in Angers, France. I did not know much about the program be­forehand and was scared to live with a host family. I truly did not know what to expect. However, I wanted to leave my comfort zone and explore a country I had never been to and, being a French ma­jor, France seemed like the ideal destination. 
To my surprise, all of my fears and worries about France, my living situation and overall study abroad experience disappeared as I got out of the TGV at the Angers St. Laud train station, quickly looked around and met my host mother. 
Those three and a half months in Angers were characterized by complete cultural and language immersion. My host family and I clicked immediately. Coming from two different worlds, we discov­ered we were very much alike. From family parties to delicious traditional French meals or just a simple conversation, I felt I was part of their family; I felt French. 
Our courses in Angers were also all taught in French. In the beginning, I have to admit I struggled a little finding the cor­rect words to express myself in class and in conversations with friends and family. My French accent would quickly turn into a rough Spanish one as I got exited and interested in what we were talking about. 
However, in the end, I thought in French, I spoke French and even dreamt in French and I did not have to make an effort to do so. It came naturally! 
Now back at Notre Dame, instead of hearing and speak­ing French while walking down Rue Bressigny, I hear and speak English as I order a sandwich at Subway in LaFun. 
I am slowly but surely getting used to being back, but the new mix of English, Spanish and now French in my head is definitely not helping. 
So, “pardon,” professor and thank you for the syllabus. It’s good to be back! 
Contact Maria Fernandez at      mfernan5@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Gabrielle Giffords, you will be missed 
This week, Gov. Jan Brewer of Ari­zona will announce one of the most unfortunate special elections in the history of American politics. The win­ner will fill the soon-to-be-vacant seat that currently belongs to Rep. Arnav Dutt Gabrielle Gif­fords (D-Ariz.), Guest who announced Columnist her imminent resignation on Sunday. 
I say unfortunate because we can only dream of a better way of filling the shoes such an icon of bipartisan cooperation, civic duty and centrism than what could wind up being a hotly-contested battle for a swing district. 
In the eulogy he delivered in Tucson four days after the Jan. 8 shooting, President Obama urged the nation to move past bitter partisanship. “If this tragedy prompts reflection and debate, as it should, let’s make sure it’s worthy of those we have lost,” he said of the six people that were killed in the shooting, and of the 13 (including Giffords) who were injured. “Let’s make sure it’s not on the usual plane of politics and point scoring and pettiness that drifts away with the next news cycle.” 
For a short while, 2011 looked to be a year of détente in Washington, best exemplified by the new seating ar­rangement in the House chamber dur­ing Obama’s Jan. 25 State of the Union address. At the behest of Colorado Senator Mark Udall, Democrats and Republicans broke with tradition and sat interspersed with one another. 
But it should go without saying that that sentiment hardly captured the spirit of the year that followed. There 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

was the embarrassing budget crisis on the Hill, during which the only thing that was ever guaranteed to pass was time. The furiously-partisan Tea Party and Occupy movements captured the nation’s attention, arguably serving to exacer­bate the situation. And the stresses of divided government and the beginning of an election year have been apparent not only in the rhetoric of politicians, but increasingly in our day-to-day conversa­tions. 2011 was, more than most, a year of “politics and point scoring and petti­ness.” 
(Since this is meant to be a column in honor of Giffords, I feel I ought to remind readers of her role in the debt crisis. On Aug. 1, Giffords returned to the House for the first time since the assassina­tion attempt to cast her vote in favor of extending the deadline. “I had to be here for this vote,” she explained. “I could not take the chance that my absence could crash our economy.”) 
Our Congress is almost too badly split apart along party lines to perform its basic functions. I am afraid that Giffords’ resignation will not cause Congress to stop and examine itself the way it did af­ter the Tucson tragedy. On the contrary, I suspect her resignation will provide yet another occasion for a highly-publicized clash between the two parties. 
Isn’t there a better way to fill a con­gresswoman’s seat after an attempt is made on her life? A two-term incum­bent, Giffords was elected to her office by a majority (albeit a small majority), most likely because of her ideology and platforms. Presumably, her office could have nominated a substitute who could have filled in for Giffords until Novem­ber. A crazed assassin’s bullet shouldn’t have the power to prompt an election, or to invalidate the votes that put Giffords in office in the first place. 
It isn’t as if Giffords’s supporters knew she was going to fall victim to a sense­less, brutal assassination attempt when they elected her. There was no reason to doubt the 41-year-old Gifford’s health would be compromised in this way. The voters that put her in office expected their congresswoman to keep doing her job as well as she had been doing it. But a deranged man with a gun had other plans. 
When you consider how far to the right Jesse Kelly (the Tea Party Republican candidate who narrowly lost to her in 2010) falls on the political spectrum, you will get an idea of how bad future elec­tions for her seat could look. 
And so, I would like to end this column on a hopeful note. To begin with, I hope that whoever is elected to fill Gabrielle Giffords’ seat in the House does as ad­mirable a job as she has done during her tenure. I hope that person is elected in a clean, respectful campaign. I hope Gif­fords will continue to recover from her injuries. I hope she will someday return to politics, as she promised in her video announcement on Sunday. I hope that, as a country, we take this year as a second chance — as another opportunity to make the changes that President Obama called for in the wake of last January’s tragedy. And finally, I hope I am not hop­ing for too much. 
Arnav Dutt is a junior. He can be reached at adutt1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A man thinks that by mouthing hard words he understands hard things.” 
Herman Melville 
U.S. novelist 



WEEKLY POLL 
Where will you watch Super Bowl 2012? 
With my roommates O’Rourke’s Brothers Indianapolis 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 

ndscmobserver.com 


Tuesday, January 24, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 



Holy Half Marathon particulars 
March 24, 2012 marks the eighth an­nual running of the Holy Half Marathon, an experience that has become one of the greatest traditions at the University of Notre Dame. One of the largest stu­dent-organized events on cam-Carolyn Green pus, the Holy Half Marathon Guest Columnist is completely unique in its ability to unite students, faculty, alumni, members of the South Bend community, and people from across the country in an atmosphere of fun, athleticism and short-shorts. 
The Holy Half Marathon began in 2005, when a group of students decided to band together as a “fitness experi­ment,” essentially just to see if they could run 13.1 miles in an organized fashion. That year, about 80 runners participated, and they raised $1,000 for the Louis J. Acompora Foundation, a foundation for the awareness of the im­portance of automatic external defibril­lators in schools. 
As the race gathered followers and attention, the number of participants and amount of money raised for charity continued to grow. In 2011, 1,340 run­ners raised over $40,000 for local South Bend charities Michiana Down Syn­drome, the Center for the Homeless and St. Adalbert’s School. In 2012, the Holy Half remains a completely non-profit organization and will donate all of its proceeds to Hope Ministries and the St. Joseph County Public Library. 
When it comes to the Holy Half, whether you think you can or whether you think you can’t, you’re right. As a USA Track and Field certified course, the Holy Half creates an opportunity for more intense runners to qualify for larger races and test their skills against the competition. On the other hand, the Holy Half is equally suited for runners who may not necessarily want to lead the pack, but still want the challenge of training for and completing a half marathon. 
For those who have never run a half marathon before, what better place to run your first race than at our beautiful University of Notre Dame, with its shin­ing Golden Dome, sparkling lakes and lack of any significant changes in eleva­tion? As always, the Holy Half Marathon will feature a 10K option, which offers all the same benefits given to marathon finishers, but requires half the distance in return. 

Sponsored by the Class of 2014, the 2012 Holy Half Marathon will be better than ever. Expect to see a new course (a hockey arena now stands in the middle of the old one), an entirely new market­ing campaign, new T-shirts and Holy Half merchandise, and more pre- and post-race food and entertainment than ever before. Jimmy John’s, alone, has already pledged 5,000 sandwiches. Oh, baby. 
Without spoiling all the surprises, runners will receive a special blessing by University President Fr. John Jen­kins, entertainment both on and off the course from dorms, DJs and campus musical groups and opportunities to win amazing raffle prizes such as Xbox Kinects, tablet computers and gear and autographs from Notre Dame coaches and famous athletes. 
To ensure the high quality of the Holy Half, the number of participants will initially be capped at 1,000 runners, so hurry to register before all the spots are taken. Registration is available online through Student Shop ND, and will also take place in the dining halls and LaFor­tune Student Center on Feb. 29-31. 
The Holy Half website (www. nd.edu/~holyhalf) provides informa­tion about the running, sponsoring and volunteering for the Holy Half. Follow the Holy Half on Facebook (http://www. facebook.com/pages/Holy-Half-Mar­athon/188421987851816) and Twitter (https://twitter.com/#!/HolyHalf) for exclusive updates, training tips and mo­tivation. Finally, read the bi-weekly Holy Half Marathon column in The Observer for even more inspiration and news about the race.
 The Holy Half is more than just another run. It is a source of pride for the campus and the community, and a must-have experience for Notre Dame students, alumni and anyone else who loves running, Notre Dame or sub sand­wiches. 
Do something good for yourself and others — run the Holy Half. 
Carolyn Green is the student director of the Holy Half Marathon. She can be reached at cgreen9@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Belles of integrity 
Throughout history, the bell has been a significant symbol of liberty and unity. Its chime is a beautiful sound that marks the end of suffrage and the beginning of new promise. I now have a new understanding of the Saint Mary’s mascot.  As a Belle of Saint Mary’s, I have had the privilege of attending a school where the women who surround me support one another, exhibit integrity and honesty and unite with one another in various, es­sential ways. 
Last week I found myself in a situation where I left a very valuable item in the beloved, busy Saint Mary’s gym. My 21st birthday gift was missing and I was devas­tated! Now as most people know, January work out ses­sions are one of the most important activities for college girls. The post-Holiday and Spring Break bikini seasons are on the brain and the gym is packed with students. After stressing out about my missing item (and search­ing every inch of the gym) I put a little faith in my fellow Smick Chicks as I hoped my item would be returned rather than stolen. 
As a senior, I have taken delight in returning ev­erything I find on campus to the Security Hut so girls receive their lost items. I guess it was finally my turn to experience honesty from other Saint Mary’s girls ... and that is exactly the character I witnessed! Within 12 hours of my item going missing I was called and noti­fied that my item had been found and turned in. Not only was I ecstatic to have gotten my possession back, but I was truly grateful for the Saint Mary’s girls with whom I have shared my college experience. Generally speak­ing, the integrity and honesty of Saint Mary’s women is one of the most wholesome and sound that I have ever seen. From misplaced IDs and keys to North Faces and designer handbags, Saint Mary’s women return the items they find scattered across campus ... regardless of how valuable they are. Furthermore, the Saint Mary’s Securi­ty staff is extremely proactive in helping students search for their missing items. This dual relationship creates a safe, close-knit community that makes sure students get their lost items back. 
As J.C. Watts said, “Character is doing the right thing when nobody’s looking. There are too many people who think that the only thing that’s right is to get by, and the only thing that’s wrong is to get caught.” I feel confident in saying that Saint Mary’s women have strong character, solid integrity and immense honesty. There is no other campus I would rather be on than Saint Mary’s. Thank you to the girl who returned my expensive, sentimental item and thank you to every student and faculty mem­ber who has acted honestly when they could have gotten away with not doing so. The Belles of Saint Mary’s truly chime in harmony with one another and for one another. 
Caitlin Guffy 
senior off-campus Jan. 22 


UWIRE Marines who defile corpses deserve prosecution 
A video of four American Marines who uri­nated on the corpses of Taliban soldiers was posted on YouTube, sending a wave of disgust all over the world. Defense secretary Leon Panetta called the video “utterly despicable” and promised a full in­vestigation of the case. Richard Zhang While the majority of the world condemns the Washington disturbing act of these Square News soldiers, some Ameri­cans see the issue differently. They see it as a perfectly justifiable revenge against the killers of Americans. The ex-presidential candidate Rick Perry is among these patriots: “What was really disturbing to me is … the over-the-top rhetoric from this [Obama] administration and their disdain for the military,” Perry said. “I mean, these [soldiers] made a mistake. There’s not any doubt about it. They shouldn’t have done it. It’s bad. But to call it a criminal act, I think, is over the top.” He showed more passion in defense of these troops in a recent debate than in the one on Jan. 8. 
The position taken by these so-called pa­triots can be appealing at first glance. After all, many people have a deep hatred for radi­cal Muslims who have committed outrageous crimes against the U.S. Nevertheless, the American government must investigate this case thoroughly as a criminal act in order to abide by the existing laws, to build up a peace­ful relation with the Middle East and to pre­serve the good values upheld by Americans. 
The Geneva Convention, an international agreement on the rules of wars, clearly states that “[t]he remains of persons who have died for reasons … resulting from … hostilities … shall be respected.” In response to the Geneva Convention, the U.S. Naval Handbook adds that the “mutilation and other mistreatment of the dead” is a war crime. The act of these Marines can be categorized as disrespect and mistreat­ment of the dead bodies, and therefore it is definitely not “over the top” to call the act a crime. Rather, if the government does not pros­ecute these soldiers, America would break the existing laws, putting our own administration in disrepute for not abiding by the laws that we ourselves have ratified. 
Even if no specific protocol outlaws the mistreatment of dead bodies during wars, the American government would still need to prosecute these American soldiers in order to preserve the already fragile relationship with the Middle East. It has taken much effort to get the Afghan government on our side. If our government does not prosecute the four American soldiers, it would just add more volatility to the existing tensions between the 
U.S. and the Middle East. The Karzai govern­ment of Afghanistan would see it as offensive and disdainful toward its people. Other Muslim countries would also take this matter offen­sively, thus becoming even more hostile toward America. In addition, certain terrorist groups such as Al-Qaeda can use it as a perfect justifi­cation for their bloody wars against the United States. 
Furthermore, the American society is built upon certain morals and values, including mercy, respect and humanitarianism. The reason we sent troops to the Middle Eastern countries is to spread these good values to the rest of the world that was once dominated by barbarity, cruelty and inhumanity. We do not fight against these countries so that we can humiliate them. The barbaric and inhumane act of the urinating soldiers is antithetical to the intention of our war, as well as to the values that we want to promote. To once again restore the cause of the war and promote the good American values, the government must condemn these soldiers by regarding the issue as a serious war crime. 
This article was originally published in the Jan. 23 edition of the Washington Square News, the daily publication serving New York University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




ADRIANA PRATT 
Assistant Managing Editor 

As the world, also known as the Notre Dame bubble, becomes evermore tech­nologically integrated, Scene thought it was time to publish an article on the trendiest apps. Download these free applications to your smart phones and watch the world around you become a little more accessible. 
Pinterest 

Are you tired of paying attention to an­other snooze-worthy lecture? Are your classmates having the same conversa­tion you’ve heard a thousand times? Is someone drowning your ears in a terri­bly boring story? Don’t get impatient, get on Pinterest. 
In the span of 15 minutes, I figured out the approximate size, style and interior of my future home, where I will travel on my next adventure and what decadent entrée I’d put on the dinner table that evening … if I actually cooked. 
Next book to read? Found it. Next style to try? Stop, this is too easy. Pinterest gives users the ability to find their favor­ite trends, destinations and desserts all in one place at the click of a button. 
When friends warned me to avoid us­ing this app until after finals, I scoffed. Self control issues? Please, I had already narrowed my Facebook usage time from an hour a day to … well, I’m still working on that. Regardless, I underestimated the pull and power of Pinterest. 
Pinterest’s mission statement says the site’s goal is to connect people around the world through the “things” they find interesting. To discover them for your­self, head to pinterest.com and request an account invitation. Log in with Face­book or Twitter and watch others’ fa­vorite recipes and outfits fill your page. “Repin” the ones you love and Pinterest will save them on your own personal pin board. 
Think this app is just for sorority sis­ters? With categories like “Cars & Mo­torcycles,” “Fitness,” “Technology” and “Sports,” the Pinterest brand covers all its bases and draws in a variety of users. 
While the rest of your life may be cha­otic and in shambles, you can at least keep the future organized with an ac­count on Pinterest. 
Trover 

Walking down New York City’s West 66th Street with my mom in tow, I im­pulsively pointed out my favorite cup­cake shop, Mediterranean food cart and indie bookstore from the summer before. Though her looks (and mouth) screamed, “Nobody cares, A,” I knew in her heart of hearts she loved every moment of it. 
Her level of appreciation may have been debatable, but thankfully, there now exists an app that will you give in­stant and unambiguous gratification for LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
your discoveries: Trover. 
Download this free device and watch as photos of other travelers’ treasures found near your current location unfold. Plug in South Bend and images of Notre Dame’s library, Notre Dame Stadium and an exceptionally delicious looking break­fast skillet fill your screen. A description accompanies each photo, along with a map detailing how to get there. 
Avoid uber touristy torture traps and instead see what adventurers have found on random side streets, behind hidden doors and just beyond the road most traveled. Not only is this app great for sightseeing ideas, but it also offers a unique opportunity to connect with peo­ple around the world. Upload your own discoveries and share the secret gems you’ve encountered in the places you love. 
The Observer 
Shameless plug? Obviously. But as a journalist, it’s my job to tell readers what they need to know. The Observer staff officially launched its very own app this year to give readers easily accessible news at the tap of a fingertip. 
This free download not only features the latest campus, sports and entertain­ment news, but also offers local restau­rant reviews. Want to know the scoop on Gunner Kiel’s attendance at Notre Dame? Have you heard about Notre Dame’s struggle with the new Depart­ment of Health and Human Services an­nouncement? Dying to keep up on the hottest Viewpoint battles? 
Stay in the know on the go with The Observer app for smart phones. 
Pose 
We all do it. Pose, pose, pose, whether it’s in a photo, at a party or in class try­ing to catch the eye of that really good-looking upperclassman. Posing has infil­trated most aspects of our lives, and now it’s got its very own social media applica­tion. 
Pose invites users to snap photos of the items they’re interested in, then post them on the application’s page for feedback. Friends and followers can comment on and browse through the uploads, staying up to date on the latest trends and keeping their friends from making serious fashion faux pas. 
When it comes down to it, you might wonder why users can’t just send a photo of that fabulous new handbag to their besties for an opinion. However, Pose offers more than an opportunity to ask for others’ advice. Users can browse the styles of YouTube fashion gurus Blair and Elle Fowler and also follow the pur­chases of trendsetters around the world. 
Use Pose to stay a step ahead of the fashionista curve. 

Contact adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 



Tuesday, January 24, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL (Tom Hiddleston), a cavalry of-work him to death. Scene Writer ficer without a horse. Albert At this point in the film, the wants to follow Joey to war, but focus returns to Albert, who 
Yes, it’s about a horse. But he is too young to enlist. has enlisted in the army with it’s so much more than that. It’s Tragedy seems to follow Joey a childhood friend, despite his about the death of the cavalry; through his life, but he also in-age. He is somewhere in France, the bonds of friendship between spires the affection of all who engaged in the horrific trench humans and animals; the ties come across him. He falls into warfare that characterized that bind all of humanity to­gether; perseverance; love. So yeah, it’s a tearjerker. 
The film opens on the birth of the horse, Joey, in rural England. A young boy, later in­troduced as Albert Narracott (Jeremy Irvine), watches fondly from a distance. He watches the horse grow up, trying to be­friend it, but the horse belongs to someone else. Unknowingly, his father (Peter Mullan) buys Joey in an auction, inciting the anger of his landlord (Da­vid Thewlis). The Narracotts are poor farmers, leasing their land, and so Albert must train the hands of the Germans, who World War I. And Joey is across Joey to pull a plow, even though use him to pull an ambulance, No Man’s Land on the Ger-he not bred for the job. Albert before two young brothers de-man side, each searching for and Joey succeed, though, and serting the army use him to the other. I won’t say anything are fully devoted to one another. run away. He then falls into the more about the end of the mov-
But after the Narracott’s crop hands of an elderly French jam-ie, except that you might want is destroyed and World War I maker and his ill granddaugh-to bring tissues with you to the comes England, Albert’s father ter. The Germans take Joey theater. sells Joey to Captain Nicholls back from them and almost The film is another fantastic Steven Spielberg war movie. It will never compare to “Saving Private Ryan,” but it looks at another side of war in a simi­larly compelling and moving way. “War Horse” focuses on the bonds that are forged and broken during the war, and not only among the soldiers. The scenes of appalling cruelty give way to powerful scenes of strength and kindness. 

Spielberg does focus most of the movie on Joey, possibly too much. Irvine’s debut perfor­mance as Albert is excellent, beautifully capturing the German, French or English, the action is focused on because they all speak English with a British accent. Unless you have an in depth knowledge of World War I uniforms, it takes too long to figure out into whose hands Joey has fallen. 
But these are minor com­plaints. “War Horse” is a beau­tifully done war film, evoking all the right emotions, even for its non-human star. 


Contact Mary Claire o’Donnell at modnne4@nd.edu 
right emotion for a teenager 
“War Horse” struggling to find his place 
Directed by: Steven Spielberg
at home and 
in the world. Starring: Jeremy Irvine, Peter Mullan, Emily But he disap-Watson, David Thewlis, Tom Hiddleston 
pears for a large chunk of the movie unfortunate­ly. 
It is also often hard to tell which side of the war, 


ROSS FINNEY 
Scene Writer 

Snoop Dogg is coming back to South Bend. That’s right — the Doggfather himself will ap pear Feb. 1 at Club Fever. Tick ets go on sale this Wednesday, Jan. 25 at 10 a.m. and can be purchased at Club Fever/Back stage Grill without any ser vice fees for just $45. Tickets the day of the show, assuming there are any left, will be sold for $50. 
Fans may remember Snoop Dogg’s sold out appearance at Club Fever last year, in which he put on an excellent show. Performing his biggest hits from across his career, Snoop kept fans of both his classic and contemporary work pleased. This year’s show will no doubt be just as great. 
For those who are not fa miliar with the D O Double G, Snoop Dogg was born Calvin Broadus Jr. in Long Beach, Ca lif., and is a rapper, singer, re cord producer, entertainer and actor.  He rose to fame with his multi platinum album “Doggy style,” which spawned the hit singles “Who Am I (What’s My Name)?” and “Gin and Juice.” 
Snoop has collaborated with multiple rap acts as well as artists like Katy Perry, the Go rillaz, and most recently, The Lonely Island. His most recent album “Doggumentary,” his 11th, came out in 2011 and featured the singles “Wet” and “Boom.” 
Be sure to come out and see a rap legend put on a great show, but remember Club Fever is a 21 and over venue, so the Gin and Juice isn’t for everyone. 
With service fees, tickets can also be purchased at Audio Specialists, Orbit Music, Morris Performing Arts Center box of fice, by phone at 574 235 9190 or online at www.morriscen ter.org and www.ticketmaster. com. 
Contact Ross Finney at tfinney@nd.edu 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLaSSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 24, 2012 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 


Patriots-Giants rematch will be another classic 
Thanks to a Sunday af­ternoon full of sloppy play and shoddy special teams, the New York Giants and New England Patriots are headed to Super Bowl XLVI. The game will be a rematch of the epic Super Bowl XLII, when Eli Manning led a late touchdown drive to secure the Giants’ 17­14 victory. 
For the Patriots, the oppo­nent may be the only similar­ity between this year’s Super Bowl team and the squad that dominated the NFL in 2007. Whereas the 2007 team bull­dozed through a perfect 16-0 regular season and set league records for points scored and point differential, this year’s team was able to sneak into the AFC Championship game without beating a single team with a winning record. Vince Wilfork is the only remaining standout from the 

Jack Hefferon 
Sports Writer 
fore slowing down in the sec­ond half of the season. The relentless New York media blamed Tom Coughlin, ever the angry grandfather, for losing the team’s support and causing the collapse. Both seasons were turned around, though, when the Giants ran into the league’s undefeated powerhouse. They stuck around to the end of shoot­outs with the 15-0 Patriots in 2007 and the 12-0 Packers in December, losing both games by the same encouraging score: 38-35. 
Those losses gave New York a boost in morale, and the team used that momentum to carry them through tough road playoff games to the NFC Championship. There, the Giants survived weather­beaten, fumble-filled games. Coughlin’s face was stop sign red in Green Bay snow in January 2008, and was soaked in a driving San Fran­cisco rain Sunday, but both games ended in overtime, with Lawrence Tynes’ right foot sending the Giants to the Super Bowl. 
One week from Sunday, this year’s Giants and Patriots will square off in Indianapo­
lis, with fame, 
fortune and 

staunch football immor-
As fans we can only 
defense of tality on the 
hope that we are 
four years line. Much like 
treated to a game as 
ago, and the matchup 
unforgettable as their 
the speedy four years ago, 
Randy first Super Bowl meeting. the Patriots will 
Moss has been re­placed by the gargantuan Rob Gronkowski as Tom Brady’s primary target. Even the notoriously grim Bill Belich­ick was downright giddy after besting the Ravens on Sun­day, cracking his best attempt at a smile and laughing it up on camera. 
For the Giants though, this season looks eerily similar to that magical run to Super Bowl XLII. 
Much like in 2007, the Gi­ants were not expected to make the playoffs this sea­son. The lingering stench of DeSean Jackson’s punt return to end last year’s campaign was compounded early in this year’s preseason by the loss of six defensive players to season ending injuries. Coupled with the hype sur­rounding the “Dream Team” Philadelphia Eagles, New York was expected widely to be an also-ran in the NFC East. 
In both 2007 and 2011, the Giants got off to hot starts be-try to over­
whelm the Gi­ants with Brady’s passing and Belichick’s genius. The Giants will try to hit Brady early and often, and hope that Manning can once again win the game in the fourth quarter. The Patriots will be looking for revenge, and the Giants will try to make history repeat itself and party like it’s 2008. 
As fans, we can only hope that we are treated to a game as unforgettable as their first Super Bowl meeting. A game decided by clutch plays, two-minute drills and miracle catches over the middle. A game that comes down to the wire and pushes us to the edge of our seats. 
A game that we’ll still be talking about, four years from now. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
NBA 


76ers handle Wizards at home 

Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA — Elton Brand had 17 points and nine rebounds, and Jrue Holiday also scored 17 to lead the Phil­adelphia 76ers to 103-83 win over the Washington Wizards on Monday night. 
Jodie Meeks added 15 points and Andre Iguodala had 11 as­sists. The Sixers led by 30 in the first half and easily cruised to their third win of the season against the hapless Wizards. 
Jordan Crawford led the Wizards with 17 points. They lost their third straight game and remained the NBA’s only winless road team at 0-7. 
The Sixers are one of the league’s early-season surpris­es and are counting on this week’s slate of home games to fatten their record. After the Wizards, they play New Jer­sey, Charlotte and Detroit, four of the five worst teams in the Eastern Conference. 
Playing without starting cen­ter Spencer Hawes (left Achil­les strain) and forward Nik Vucevic (quadriceps strain), the Sixers improved to 8-1 at home. 
The Sixers must wish they could play the Wizards (2-15) every night. They beat them by 31 points and 13 points on consecutive nights earlier this month, and this game was nev­er competitive. 
Brand was sent home from the morning shootaround with a stomach ailment. He dunked for Philadelphia’s first basket off Iguodala’s steal. It was the start of big first quarters for each of them. Iguodala had seven assists and Brand 11 points — both numbers above their season averages. 
Meeks hit consecutive 3s for a 17-10 lead, and the rout was on. The Sixers made nine of their first 14 shots, setting the pace for a torrid first half. 
The Wizards, who lost Sun­day at Boston, played with little passion in the first half. They walked down the court for offensive possessions, never hustled after loose balls and couldn’t convert the easiest of buckets, missing eight of nine shots in the paint in the first quarter. Washington coach Flip Saunders took a knee in front of the scorer’s table, bowed his head and rubbed his temples after a string of sloppy plays. 
About 45 minutes before the opening tip, Sixers coach Doug Collins said he wanted to see if his team had “mental tough­ness” heading into a game without two of its best big men. Hawes averages 10.4 points and 8.8 rebounds, and Vucev­ic has had a promising rookie season off the bench. 
“My feeling is, when every­thing is good and things are go­ing well, that’s one thing,” Col­lins said. “But when you start facing adversity, are we all going to pull together? I know one thing, there won’t be any excuses from my standpoint. 
I think our players know that. We’re not going to go out with the idea that because we’re hurt, it gives us an excuse to lose games.” 
No excuses needed. 
Pick any stat and the Sixers dominated. They went 4 of 9 on 3s in the first half; the Wizards were 0 for 5. At one point in the first half, the entire Wizards team had only outscored the Sixers’ bench 30-27. 
With Hawes out, Collins turned to 13-year veteran Tony Battie to guard JaVale McGee. McGee, averaging 11.8 points, took only two shots in the first half. McGee finished with two points. 
Sixers rookie Lavoy Allen, who starred at nearby Temple, made all five shots from the floor and scored 10 points. Lou Williams and Thaddeus Young each scored 14. 
The Sixers had 62 points in the first half, topping their previous season high for a half 
(54) set against, yup, Washing­ton on Jan. 13. 
Led by Brand and Holiday, the Sixers shot 65 percent in the half (26 of 40) and the Wiz­ards never threatened to rally. 
A year ago, the Sixers were a slumping team trying to find their way. In Collins’ first sea­son, they started 4-13 before a strong finish put them at 41-41 and in the playoffs. 
After this blowout, the Six­ers are 12-5 and rolling toward their first winning season since 2004-05. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you 
love needs confidential support 
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

Just yesterday morning they let me know you were gone 
Susanne the plans they made put an end to you 
I walked out this morning and I wrote down this song 
I just can’t remember who to send 
it to I’ve seen fire and I’ve seen rain 
I’ve seen sunny days that I thought would never end 
I’ve seen lonely times when I could 
not find a friend 
But I always thought that I’d see you again 
Won’t you look down upon me, Jesus 
You’ve got to help me make a stand 
You’ve just got to see me through another day 

My body’s aching and my time is at hand 
And I won’t make it any other way 
Oh, I’ve seen fire and I’ve seen rain 
I’ve seen sunny days that I thought would never end 
I’ve seen lonely times when I could 
not find a friend 

But I always thought that I’d see you again 
Been walking my mind to an easy time my back turned towards the sun 
Lord knows when the cold wind blows it’ll turn your head around 
Well, there’s hours of time on the telephone line to talk about things to come 
Sweet dreams and flying machines 
in pieces on the ground 
Oh, I’ve seen fire and I’ve seen rain 
I’ve seen sunny days that I thought would never end 
I’ve seen lonely times when I could 
not find a friend 
But I always thought that I’d see you, baby, one more time again. 
-- “Fire and Rain” by James Taylor 

Tuesday, January 24, 2012 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 



Kentucky headlines new AP poll 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. — Kentucky is back on top of The Associated Press’ college basketball poll. Freshman Michael Kidd-Gil­christ has a simple plan on how to stay there. 
“All we’ve got to do is win games and we’ll be No. 1 for­ever,” said Kidd-Gilchrist, one of three freshman starters for the Wildcats. “To be this young as a team and to be No. 1, that’s a blessing.” 
Kentucky is the only team in last week’s top four not to lose over the weekend. 
The Wildcats, who were ranked No. 1 for two weeks earlier this season, moved up one place Monday after receiv­ing 61 first-place votes from the 65-member national media panel. 
“We’ll address it for a sec­ond or two, but we’ve just got to play,” Kentucky coach John Cali­pari said. 
Missouri, which got two No. 1 votes, jumped from fifth to second, while Syracuse, which was in first place for the past six weeks, dropped to third af­ter losing at Notre Dame, its first loss this season. The Orange were No. 1 on two ballots. 
“Wow. Who would’ve thunk it? It’s a tremendous honor,” Tigers coach Frank Haith said. “These guys are to be commended for their hard work, how they’ve played. I’m really proud of them. But we also know that rankings; it’s nice, but at the end of the day, we want to be playing in March.” 
Kentucky lost the No. 1 rank­ing when it fell Dec. 10 at Indiana on Christian Watford’s 3-pointer at the buzzer. Since then, the Wildcats have won 11 straight by an average of 17.6 points with road games this week at Geor­gia on Tuesday night and LSU on Saturday. 

Even during the winning streak, Calipari said he hasn’t liked how his team has respond­ed to physical play and that the Wildcats might be due for an upset again soon after watching film as a team on Sunday night. 
“I like my team. We’re go­ing on a tough road trip, but I did tell them the way this is go­ing we probably need a loss so that we’ll come together and say, ‘We’re not losing like this.’ In other words, getting man­handled,” Calipari said. “We’re getting manhandled and win­ning close games so they think it’s OK.” 
Ohio State and Kansas moved up two places to fourth and fifth and were followed by Baylor, which fell three places after los­ing two games last week, North Carolina, Duke, Georgetown and Michigan State. Duke dropped four places after losing to Florida State at home. 
Murray State, the lone re­maining unbeaten team in Division I at 20-0, is 11th and doesn’t play again until Saturday against Eastern Il­linois. 
“Today, I happened to drive by the arena and I just saw a line of people and students out there trying to get tickets right now, a whole week be­fore our game,” Racers guard Donte Poole said. “It just mo­tivates you. It makes you keep that enthusiasm up, keep on doing the things that have gotten us here.” 
UNLV is 12th followed by San Diego State, Florida, Creighton, Indiana, Mar­quette, Mississippi State, Vir­ginia, Michigan, St. Mary’s and Kansas State. 



AUSTRALIAN OPEN 


Serena loses in straight sets, Djokovic moves on 

Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — It wasn’t just Serena Williams’ serve that was missing Monday at the Australian Open. It was her aura, too. 
Ekaterina Makarova, the lowest-ranked player left in the draw at No. 56, didn’t seem the least bit frightened of the error-ridden opponent across the net. 
The Russian won 6-2, 6-3 
— equaling the biggest Grand Slam defeat of Williams’ 17­year career — and will face Maria Sharapova in her first Grand Slam quarterfinal. 
Sharapova rallied past Sa­bine Lisicki 3-6, 6-2, 6-3 be­fore men’s defending champion Novak Djokovic fended off a resurgent Lleyton Hewitt in a dramatic last match of the day, winning 6-1, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3. 
With Hewitt’s loss, Austra­lia’s chances of celebrating a home singles winner were over. American hopes had already evaporated with the defeat of five-time champion Williams 
— her first in Melbourne since 2008 and earliest since 2006. 
“I can’t even describe how I served, to be honest,” said Wil­liams, who finished with seven double-faults and a first-serve percentage of just over 50. “My lefty serve is actually better than that. Maybe I should have started serving lefty.” 
Williams also threw in 37 unforced errors, but Makarova played her part, boldly going for the lines and holding steady in a tight service game while leading 4-3 in the second set. Playing Williams in Beijing in 2009, Makarova said she had been “afraid” of the American in a 6-3, 6-2 loss. 
Not this time. 
“I really thought that I could beat her,” Makarova said. “Maybe in my head that helped me.” 
Williams tried not to blame her left ankle injury from a tuneup tournament in Bris­bane two weeks ago. But she didn’t move well and seemed to have particular difficulty run­ning to her left. She said if it hadn’t been a Grand Slam, she wouldn’t have played at all. 
“Usually I play myself into the tournament,” Williams said. “But I don’t have a huge problem with an injury. So this is a completely different situa­tion. Usually it’s easier for me to play myself in because I’m usually physically OK.” 
At 30, Williams’ body is breaking down more often and, unlike earlier in her career, a lack of matches leaves her sus­ceptible to upsets. 
After squandering the fifth game of the second set with four double-faults, Williams threw up her arms in disbe­lief and yelled, “Oh, my God.” Her mother, Oracene Price, who doesn’t usually betray any emotion, shook her head in the stands. 
Williams got away with a shanked smash in her third-round win. On Monday, she sent an overhead way beyond the baseline when a winner would have given her two break-back points in the second set. 
“Every ball that came, I just hit it as far out as I could,” Wil­liams said. 
Before the match, 18-time Grand Slam champion Martina Navratilova said Williams was the best player in the world — “just a matter of whether she can bring it.” 
Williams couldn’t bring it against Makarova, nor against Sam Stosur in the U.S. Open final in September, when she also only won five games. The only other time she has lost by so much in a Grand Slam match was against Sharapova in the 2004 Wimbledon final. 
Williams will now return to the practice court in prepara­tion for the United States’ Fed Cup match against Belarus on Feb. 4-5. 
Sharapova can look forward to a quarterfinal against Ma­karova after overcoming her own problems in her fourth-round match. Sharapova hit eight double-faults and made 47 unforced errors but, unlike Williams, found a way to win against the 14th-seeded Lisicki. 
“I fought to the end and sometimes that’s what gets you through,” said the Russian, who lost six games in a row af­ter taking a 3-0 lead in the first set. 
Djokovic had won 23 straight sets at Melbourne Park before he suddenly wobbled against Hewitt, a two-time Grand Slam champion who has slipped to No. 181 in the rankings after a series of injuries. 
Hewitt, a wild-card entry in his 16th straight Australian Open, rallied from 3-0 down in the third set in front of a raucous home crowd to force a fourth set, but Djokovic gath­ered his composure. 
“I think for two sets and 3-0 I was playing really well and suddenly I stopped moving,” Djokovic said. “He was not making a lot of unforced er­rors. I made a lot of unforced errors in the third set.” 
Next up for Djokovic is fifth-seeded David Ferrer of Spain, who had a surprisingly easy 6-4, 6-4, 6-1 win over Richard Gasquet. 
No. 2 Rafael Nadal and No. 3 Roger Federer are back in ac­tion Tuesday, hoping to set up a semifinal. Federer plays former 
U.S. Open champion Juan Mar­tin del Potro while Nadal faces Tomas Berdych. 
On the women’s side, defend­ing champion Kim Clijsters will test her injured ankle against top-seeded Caroline Wozni­acki, and third-seeded Victoria Azarenka plays eighth-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska. 
Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova opened Monday’s play with a 6-2, 7-6 (2) win over for­mer top-ranked Ana Ivanovic. She’ll next play Sara Errani of Italy, who beat 2010 semifinal­ist Zheng Jie 6-2, 6-1. 
Two-time finalist Andy Mur­ray advanced when Mikhail Kukushkin of Kazakhstan re­tired after 49 minutes with a left hip injury while trailing 6-1, 6-1, 1-0. After knocking out the first player from Kazakh­stan to reach the fourth round of a Grand Slam, Murray’s next opponent will be another histo­ry-maker. 
Kei Nishikori beat sixth-seeded Jo-Wilfried Tsonga 2-6, 6-2, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3 to become the first Japanese man to reach the quarterfinals of the Australian Open since the Open era began in 1968. 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Tuesday, January 24, 2012 

NASCAR 


Patrick opts out of Indianapolis 500 in favor of NASCAR 
Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.C.  — Danica Pat­rick became a worldwide sensa­tion as a rookie at the Indianapo­lis 500, challenging for victory and becoming the first woman to lead laps in the showcase race. 
Those Indy days are fading fast. 
Patrick’s shift to stock cars is long under way and her ties to IndyCar were cut even further Monday — she said she won’t run in this year’s Indy 500. 
Her focus is entirely on NAS­CAR, and on May 27 she’ll race in the Coca-Cola 600. She said skip­ping the Indy 500 was a “busi­ness decision.” 
“I hope to do it in the future, the Indy 500 that is, and maybe it will be a double,” she said. “But at this point in time, after a lot of conversations, it’s just going to be the Coke 600 and I think it’s going to be a big challenge. It’s just is something that didn’t work out, as far as the business side of things. ... For this year, it just didn’t happen.” 
Patrick led 19 laps late and fin­ished fourth in 2005. She was a career-best third in 2009. 
When she jumped full time to NASCAR she said the Indy 500 was still under consideration. Her NASCAR season includes the full second-tier Nationwide Se­ries schedule for JR Motorsports and 10 races in the elite Sprint Cup Series for Stewart-Haas Rac­ing. 
Patrick had previously an­nounced eight of her races. The Coca-Cola 600 — Patrick jokingly called NASCAR’s longest event of the season “The Coke 6,000,” — is the ninth announced race. The Indy 500 and the Coca-Cola 600 are both May 27. 
“We didn’t tell her she couldn’t run the 500. It was left up to her,” team co-owner Tony Stewart said. “It shows how dedicated she is to making this transition.” 
Stewart, Robby Gordon and John Andretti have all tried to run both events on the same day. Stewart, NASCAR’s three-time champion, completed the double twice: In 1999, he was ninth at Indy and fourth at Charlotte, and in 2001, he was sixth at Indy and third at Charlotte. 
He’s not tried Indianapolis since, and has let go of his child­hood dream of winning the 500. He has twice won the Brickyard 400, NASCAR’s race at the storied Indianapolis Motor Speedway. 
“The hard part for me was you make that decision when you sign up to do (NASCAR),” Stewart said. “The decision you make, you have to come to peace with your­self with saying ‘I’m not going to do this.’ That was my childhood dream anyway. It may be a differ­ent scenario and feeling for her. But it was hard knowing when I signed that (NASCAR) contract that I was writing off the oppor­tunity to go race at Indy. 
“It’s figuring out at the end of the day what do you really want to do. I guess that’s the part that even though it was hard to watch opening day of practice at India­napolis, I’m enjoying what I’m do­ing, too, and this is what I want to do at the end of the day,” he con­tinued. “It makes you want 30­hour days and 400-day years and we always want to do more than what we’re capable of doing, but the reality is you have to pick at some point and choose your ca­reer path. This is what I’ve done and what she’s doing now.” 
But Stewart said so long as Indianapolis Motor Speedway makes it logistically possible for Patrick to attempt both races, she may eventually run the race again. He said he has no inter­est in fielding a car for her, cit­ing how much he’s already doing with all his other teams. 
The IndyCar Series would also welcome back its most recogniz­able driver to its biggest event of the season. 
“We continue to wish Danica the very best on this new phase in her career. The door is always open should she wish to run the Indianapolis 500 in the future,” IndyCar CEO Randy Bernard said in a statement. 
Patrick has already set some of her expectations for NASCAR, and sounded Monday as if she expects her debut in the Dayto­na 500 next month to go as well as her debut in the Indianapolis 
500. She tested there two weeks ago with new crew chief Greg Zi­padelli, and after leading 13 laps at Daytona in last July’s Nation­wide race, likes her chances in the Feb. 26 season opener. 
“At Daytona, the cars are very fast, so I feel good about that race,” she said. “I was lucky enough to get to run with Tony in the Nationwide race last sum­mer and that went pretty good, so I feel good about Daytona and I think there’s a real chance, if luck falls our way, to perhaps win. 
“I think it’s a real chance. I mean a guy like Trevor Bayne last year showed that. Those are the expectations for the first race.” 
Bayne, a rookie last season, was the upset winner of the Day­tona 500, which Stewart said was proof that Patrick is a viable con­tender. 
“A rookie won it last year, why would you ever count yourself out?” he asked. “She’s a talented driver. Our cars were really fast at Daytona. At that point, I’d have that confidence.” 
But Stewart is cautious regard­ing his expectations for Patrick. Although she said she’d like to knock down top-20 finishes in the Cup Series, the car owner was more concerned with Patrick simply turning laps and learning as much as she can before her scheduled full-time move to the Cup in 2013. 
“I crashed everything that I drove when I drove the Nation­wide cars. We got to the Cup side and it got better, obviously,” Stew­art said. “But I think looking at it, these 10 races for her this year, for me, it’s just finishing the races and just getting the track time. I’m not worried about what her finish is at the end of the day. 
“I think the success at the end of the year won’t be judged by where the finishing positions are at the end of the day, as much as what she takes away from each race weekend. That’s what my goal is for her.” 
Patrick has higher goals for the Nationwide Series, where she’s run 25 races over the last two se­ries. She has three top-10 finishes and one top five, all last season with JRM. The Daytona 500 will be her Cup Series debut. 
“With the Nationwide stuff, it very much depends on the indi­vidual weekend itself. There are still some tracks that I haven’t raced before, so probably a little bit different expectations for those,” she said. “But, for the most part, solid top 10s and get­ting into the top five consistently through the year would be a goal. And I’d like to get to Victory Lane.” 





Tuesday, January 24, 2012 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 

CLUB SPORTS 


Irish host event at Chippewa Bowl 
Figure skating finishes third; Ski and Snowboarding opens season 
Bowling 
The Chippewa Bowl was host to this year’s Blue and Gold Classic this weekend.  Despite 19 cancellations due to weather and road conditions, 109 teams from schools such as Kansas, North Dakota, Texas, Texas A&M, Florida State and all of the Big 10 participated in the event. 
Among tough competition, in­cluding one 300 game, the Irish finished 57th, in the field of 66 men’s teams. 
The Irish team served double duty as competitors and Univer­sity ambassador hosts.  Game six proved to be the squad’s highlight as club posted a 1,010 score.  Senior Brian Frisch and sophomore Michael Murray led the way with scores of 224, and MBA student Robbie Espiritu added a 205 in that round.  
Murray and freshman Kevin Schneider both elevated their games, averaging close to 180 for the tournament. Senior Richard Skelton did very well as he battled a painful injury to roll some games.  Had it not been for an opening 119 while testing his knees, he would have averaged in the high 180’s. 


Overall in men’s action, Lindenwood University de­feated perennial powerhouse Saginaw Valley State in a close finish, 10,005 to 10,001. Not to be outdone, the wom­en’s championship was de­cided by one pin.  Wichita State defeated Robert Morris Illinois, 9,098 to 9,097. 
Figure Skating 
The Notre Dame Figure Skating club opened compe­tition at the Mid American Synchronized Skating Cham­pionships with a third place finish.  The Irish program featured music from Billy Joel. 
Miami (Ohio) and Linden-wood took the top two places. Finishing in order behind the Irish were Delaware, Ohio, Michigan State, Grand Val­ley, Ohio State and North­western. 
The club performed at intermission of the varsity hockey game. 
Ski and Snowboarding 
A season opening venture to Crystal Mountain, Mich. kicked off the season for the Ski and Snowboarding Club this weekend.  Although the club performed well, results have not yet been posted by the MCCSA. 
Field Hockey 
The club’s trip to Ohio State was cancelled due to weather and road conditions. 

Dame opened up a 39-21 lead and never looked back. The 
Diggins Irish quickened the tempo in the second half, sprinting out 
continued from page 20 in transition after made field 
goals by Tennessee. huge shots.” With 5:01 left, a quick eight-The trio of McBride, Dig-point run by the Irish all but 
gins and Pe­ sealed it for  
ters scored  Notre Dame,  
all but one  who went up  
of Notre Dame’s 28 f ir s t -h a lf points. The half was low-scoring for both  “We’re definitely on a good trajectory right now ... I don’t think we’ve painted our masterpiece yet. I think we are going to peak at  64-40 at that point. For Notre Dame, a de­cisive victory over a team as talented  
teams, as  exactly the right time.”  as Tennessee  
the Irish  shows that the  
held the  Muffet McGraw  Irish are ready  
Lady Vols to 18 points on  Irish coach  to compete on even bigger  
seven for 35  stages.  
shooting, 19  “We’re defi­ 
points below  nitely on a good  

their season average for first-half scoring. 
“In the second half, we were in attack mode,” Diggins said. “We got some inside post touch­es. We just kept on attacking.” 
Peters sparked the Irish in the second half as she scored six straight points and drew a charge on the other end. Peters finished with 16 points against Tennessee. 
At the 17:00 mark, Notre 


LaBarge 
continued from page 20 
playing in college. Already a junior in high school and a relatively inexperienced fenc­er, however, LaBarge knew she would face an uphill bat­tle. 
“I basically relearned the entire craft during my junior year,” LaBarge said. “I knew that I wanted to fence in col­lege, but I also knew I wasn’t in a position to earn a schol­arship or be recruited.” 
LaBarge’s former coach had a former pupil fencing at Notre Dame, a stroke of good fortune that helped strike a connection between LaBarge and Irish coach Janusz Bed­narski. 
After meeting with Bednar­ski during a visit to campus, the coach invited LaBarge to try out for the team provided she get into the school on her own. Like many fencers in a scholarship-poor sport, La-Barge had no help getting through admissions. 
“There is a large number of us on the team who are walk-ons,” LaBarge said. “Many of us are alternates at meets. There’s quite a range of abili­ties, and sometimes I feel out of my league, but overall it’s been a really good experi­ence.” 
Despite her relative inex­perience and lack of fencing trajectory right now,” McGraw said. “I don’t think we’ve paint­ed our masterpiece yet. I think we are going to peak at exactly the right time.” 
The Irish will return to ac­tion against St. John’s on Sat­urday in Jamaica, N.Y. Tip-off against the Red Storm is sched­uled for 12 p.m. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
pedigree, LaBarge contrib­uted greatly to the Irish as a freshman and sophomore, compiling a 44-18 record over that span. 
LaBarge’s junior year was a wash, as she opted for a se­mester of studying abroad in London instead of participat­ing in the fencing season. La-Barge said it was one of the most difficult decisions she ever had to make. 
“I talked to my coach about it, and he gave me permission to go during the season,” La-Barge said. “It was something that I’ve always wanted to do, but it was really strange being gone. I really missed the team a lot, and it was agonizing to see them going to the national championship. You just had the sense the whole year that we were going to do it, but I couldn’t be a part of it.” 
Luckily for LaBarge, a Monogram club member, she still has one year left to pur­sue that goal. Even with a number of top athletes lost to graduation or training for international competition, the Irish are still among the top teams in the nation. 
“This is a good opportunity to show that we have a deep team,” LaBarge said. “I think we could definitely do it. It will take a lot of determina­tion and persistence, but I think it’s possible.” 


Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Tuesday, January 24, 2012 
Kreft 
continued from page 20 
and just kind of be done with it.” 
A former baseball and soccer player, Kreft did not make the typical transition from gymnas­tics to diving. He began diving around the age of 10 and has since become the model of a mentally-tough athlete. 
The pressure involved in lead­ing a collegiate diving team may get to the average athlete’s head, but Kreft has consciously chosen to eliminate negative thoughts and remain confident. 
“I used to be the most insecure competitor that you could find. [As a kid], I dreaded competition-based [diving], and now I look forward to it,” Kreft said. “I’ve learned to love the feeling I get. You can’t get that feeling in prac­tice, the butterfly feeling. You can also do things when you feel that way that you could never do anywhere else. The adrenaline can make you perform in a way that you couldn’t get yourself to do those things in practice.” 
Kreft said it was simply a mat­ter of time before he gained con­fidence, which ultimately plays a huge role in the sport of diving. 
“I’ve kind of learned to love [the adrenaline], and it’s kind of given me confidence,” he said. “I like [competing]. Some people are born with confidence, and other people it takes a long time, and I was one of those people.” 
Immediately shying away from praise and rejecting any men­tion of being the top diver on the squad, Kreft said his fellow teammates deserve equally as much credit for the team’s suc­cess this season. 
“It’s not like I’m winning every time. It’s not always like that,” he said. “My teammate [freshman 
Giesting 
continued from page 20 
school records of his own. Gi­esting’s older brother, Tyler, also ran collegiately at De-Pauw. 
Giesting said he immediately turns to Tyler as a role model in the sport. 
“He is always the one who comes up to me and tells me to relax and what I need to do,” Giesting said. “He is a pretty big part of my running and how I’ve gone about it so far.” 
When choosing a college, Gi­esting said he looked for two qualities — good academics and a nationally competitive track team. 
“First off, I wanted to come here because of the academ­ics. They are hard to beat,” Gi­esting said. “But, also, [we’ve] got the largest indoor track in the nation and we are usually Nick Nemetz] won both of them [Saturday]. In diving, it really just depends on the day. On those days [that I won], I was focused enough where I could assess the situation and know exactly what I needed to do.” 
Kreft arrived at Notre Dame with the goal of qualifying for the NCAA Zone Diving Cham­pionships. Surprising nobody affiliated with the Notre Dame diving program, those quali­fying scores came on Jan. 14, against Northwestern. 
Qualifying for the Zone meet is the only way an Irish diver can advance to the NCAA Cham­pionship. Kreft will join Nemetz in the Big 10 Zone on March 9. 
“The zone meet is the toughest NCAA competition of the year prior to the national champi­onship,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “For [Michael] to qualify is special. It’s a really, really good sign of their development as collegiate divers. Whether [he advances] out of the zone and competes in NCAAs, [compet­ing] at that level is an accom­plishment.” 
Kreft said his approach never changes, and he is thankful for the chance to compete among the most elite divers in the coun­try. 
“I just always try to remember the reason why I do the sport that I do, and that’s because I enjoy the actual activity of the flipping and the adrenaline rush that I get,” Kreft said. “When I get caught up in the results, the anxiety, the competition and things like that, I try to throw myself back to why I’m here in the first place.” 
The Irish will host the Sham­rock Invitational on Friday at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 


Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmary’s.com 


competing to win the Big East every year.” 
Now that he is a freshman at Notre Dame, Giesting is go­ing through some of the usual growing pains of being new to the college life. 
“That first week I was here I had more work than I have ever had in my life,” he said. “It kind of made me realize how much different college is.” 
But on the team, Giesting al­ready feels a strong bond with his teammates, especially his fellow sprinters. 
“Each week we get to know each other better,” Giesting said. “We have a great relation­ship; we hang out together all the time.” 
Giesting and the rest of the Irish Track and Field team will compete next in the Indiana Relays on Jan. 17-18 in Bloom­ington, Ind. 


Contact aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
slow down our play and play more cautiously.” 
Strategy 

Irish senior Casey Watt echoed his coach’s sentiments. continued from page 20 “[Playing indoors] is a lot cleaner game. It’s a lot faster. both strategy and outcome. Points are usually shorter. “The difference between There’s no elements or any-playing indoors and play-thing,” Watt said. “Once you go ing outdoors is quite sig-outdoors, you’ve got the wind, 
n i f ic a nt ,”  the sun, the  
I r i s h coach Bob­by Bayliss said. “Ad­ju st ment s need to be made for both. When we play in­doors and the condi­tions are  “[Playing indoors] is a lot cleaner game. It’s a lot faster. Points are usually shorter. There’s no elements or anything ... Once you go outdoors, you’ve got the wind, the sun, the ball travels through the air slower and the points are longer.”  ball trav­els through the air slow­er and the points are longer.” The faster style of in­door play better suits Watt, he said, but he ex­pects himself  
a l w a y s p r e t t y  Casey Watt  and his team­mates to be  
much  the  Irish senior  able to tran­ 
same,  we  sition  effec­ 
play  fast­ tively  when  

er and more aggressively. the time comes to make the When we are outdoors and switch. have to deal with a variety “I usually prefer the indoor of conditions, we need to tennis – the faster points and so on,” Watt said. “But I think I’m getting better at adjust­ing. As a team, we’re usually pretty good adjusting to the outdoor climate.” 
Though there are noted dif­ferences between the indoor and outdoor game, a large reason for being able to ad­just smoothly is similar game preparation, whether indoors at the Eck Tennis Pavilion or outdoors at the Courtney Ten­nis Center. 
“The preparation for play­ing indoors is not too much different from the preparation for playing outdoors,” Bayliss said. “It’s still the same game and our guys are used to play­ing both indoors and outdoors, so the adjustments come quite naturally.” 
The Irish will continue the indoor portion of their season when they travel to Columbus, Ohio this weekend to face In­diana on Saturday and either Ohio State or Cornell on Sun­day. 


Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 



Tuesday, January 24, 2012 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




LEE HAGGNEJOS and ALEx GRISWOLD 
HENRy ARNOLD 

THE LONDON EXPRESS 
JUMBLE 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, January 24, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Volunteers worked 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
In front of a sellout crowd at the Purcell Pavilion, the No. 2 Irish captured a 72-44 win over No. 9 Tennessee on Mon­day. A season-high 27 points from junior guard Skylar Dig-gins and a season-high 16 re­bounds from graduate student forward Devereaux Peters led the Irish to victory. The Irish rest on a 17-game win streak. 
“[Peters] had just an amaz­ing game,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “[Diggins] was unbelievable. We got it going in transition and did a great job defensively.” 
The Irish (20-1) are only the second team to beat both his­torical powerhouses Tennessee (14-5) and No. 3 Connecticut in consecutive years since North Carolina did it in 2005-06 and 2006-07. 
Notre Dame’s stifling defense limited Tennessee to a 27.9 shooting percentage for the night and forced 19 turnovers. Tennessee’s previous low scor­ing mark this season was 60 points in a Jan. 12 loss to No. 6 Kentucky. 
“That’s a pretty amazing ac­complishment against a team of that caliber,” McGraw said. “We really dug in defensively and helped each other. That just says a lot about the pride we take in our defense.” 
The Irish started cold from the field, but sophomore guard Kayla McBride sank three straight layups to put Notre Dame up 8-4 early in the game. McBride scored 11 first-half points on five for nine from the field. She played all 20 min-

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Junior guard Skylar Diggins celebrates Notre Dame’s 72-44 home victory over No. 9 Tennessee on Monday. Diggins scored 27 points in the game. 
utes and also recorded four re­bounds in the half. McBride fin­ished the game with 17 points. 
“It’s just a learning experi­ence for me, playing with these veterans,” McBride said. “It just gave me so much confidence.” 
Senior guard Natalie No­vosel, the second leading scor­er for the Irish, picked up two quick fouls and had to sit most of the first half. She played only seven minutes in the period. Novosel’s seven points were a season low for the standout guard. 
The Irish were sluggish out of the gates, but Diggins was able to get the Irish offense started. 
“I trust her,” McGraw said. “I know she’s going to get go­ing. I have total confidence in her ability. She can turn it around instantly. She did a really good job managing her own frustration. She hit some huge shots.” 
see DIGGINS/page 17 
FENCING 
Senior walk-on reflects on her unlikely path 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
When senior fencer Chris­tina LaBarge took a be­ginners fencing class at 13 years old, it would have been difficult to predict that eight years later she would be a student at Notre Dame, a college athlete and a mem­ber of a national champion­ship team. 
Many fencers start young, but the California native took a non-traditional road to a spot on the Irish fencing squad with hopes of defend­ing its 2011 national champi­onship. 
“I started fencing at 13, and it was just for fun,” LaBarge said. “Then when I was 15, I tore my ACL. It was a freak accident that doesn’t happen too often in fencing, but the year I had to take off for rehab really made me want to get se­rious when I returned.” 
LaBarge’s rededication to the sport prompted her to look forward to the possibility of 
see LABARGE/page 17 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Season’s venue split presents challenge 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
Usually, sports are either competed solely indoors or solely outdoors. A few games or matches throughout the year may differ in a sport like football, but it’s atypical for teams to divide their season in half between the two. 
One of the few exceptions is tennis. 
With a schedule that begins in January and runs through the NCAA tournament in May, the Irish and other NCAA oppo­nents start their season under a roof and heating before head­ing outside when better weath­er arrives. 
Though no rules change once the Irish move outdoors in the spring, there are differences in the way the game is played, which can severely alter both strategy and outcome. 
“The difference between playing indoors and playing outdoors is quite significant,” 
see STRATEGY/page 18 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Freshman Giesting sets record in first attempt 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
As of Saturday morning, freshman sprinter Chris Gi­esting had never competed in the 500-meter race. By Satur­day afternoon, he rewrote the 29-year-old school record in the event  with a 1:01.89 at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
“My coach came up to me a few days before the race and told me I was running the 500,” Giesting said. “Then he told me, ‘This is the record and I think you can be right there at it.’” 
Irish sprinting coach Alan Turner’s confidence in his run­ner made a difference for Gi­esting.
 “He just got it in my mind that, ‘Hey, maybe I could really run this well,’” Giesting said. 
As a runner, Giesting has more experience with the 400-meter dash. He won that race in IHSAA state meet in 2011 as a senior in high school and holds the Indiana record with a 46.89 in that event. 
“I kind of approached it just like I run the 400 [meter dash] and then just did my best to hang on for the last 100 me­ters,” Giesting said. 
Giesting outraced competi­tion by two seconds, leaving his mark in the Notre Dame record books. 
“At first,  I didn’t think much of it; I had just accomplished what I set out to do,” Giest­ing said. “But, after talking to friends and family, it kind of hit me how special it really is, to have your name as a re­cord holder for the University of Notre Dame.” 
The 2012 season is only Gi­esting’s fourth year as a track and field runner. 
“Believe it or not, my fresh­man year of high school, I wasn’t even on the track team,” Giesting said. “I played golf.” 
But running flows in the Gi­esting family blood. His father, Terry, was a runner in high school, setting a few high 
see GIESTING/page 18 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Kreft silently leads the way 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Just two months after at­tending his first college class, freshman diver Michael Kreft began turning heads with his standout performances. One of 16 freshmen on the team, it took little time for Kreft’s teammates to learn his name. 
Kreft showed up for his first few practices and was nearly silent. His ability to focus on the task at hand, his team­mates say, separated him from other elite divers. 
“In the beginning of the year, I would come to practice and I wouldn’t notice that I was [so quiet]. I wouldn’t talk to anybody, and they took it as [me] being rude,” Kreft said. “It became my common practice to just get inside my­self while I was training. My teammates thought that I was ignoring them, but it really isn’t like that at all. When I go, I have a job to do, and I just like to focus on it.” 
The diver’s teammates did not have a problem with Kreft’s silence after they saw the result of such intense in-achievements and things like that. I naturally want to let my performance speak for me,” Kreft said. 

“I can’t say that I go into every meet thinking that I’m going to come out on top. I just go in, and I want to do good dives that I feel good about. If I do that, a lot of times I will come out on top. 
see KREFT/page 18 
ternal reflection during training. 
Kreft won gold medals on both the one-meter and three-meter boards against Pittsburgh, the first road meet of the 19-year­old’s career. Nearly two weeks later, Kreft finished in first on the one-meter and three-meter boards for the second time at Louisville. 
“I’ve always been uncom­fortable kind of talking about 





