
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


University honors 10 withdegree 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame will award 10 hon­orary degrees at this year’s Com­mencement ceremony, in addition to the honorary degree given to commencement speaker Haley Scott DeMaria, the University announced Thursday.
 DeMaria, a former Irish swim­mer who made a remarkable re­covery from injuries sustained in a team bus accident, will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. Other recipients will be honored with degrees in science, law and en­gineering. 
Jude Banatte, head of program­ming for Catholic Relief Services (CRS) in Haiti, will receive an honor­ary doctor of science degree. Banatte gained international recognition for his leadership in the response to Haiti’s 2010 earthquake. In the af­termath of the quake, Banatte visit­ed hospitals, assessed medical needs and helped search for survivors and medical supplies. He has led CRS ini­tiatives to provide temporary shelter for quake victims and traveled as an advocate for the country’s needs. A Haitian native, he earned a medical degree in 1991 and joined CRS. 

see DEGREE/page 4 


Lead, connect, advocate 
Summit unites student representatives in Washington, D.C. 

Professors discuss politics 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 
Three professors discussed the values of presidential can­didates in the fast-approaching fall elections during the “Holy Votes Debate” Thursday night in Washington Hall. 
Moderator Michael Desch, Di­rector of Political Science, said it is important for students to consider how various political parties embody the views of the Church in different ways. 
“We hope this interchange will create some soul searching … about the platforms of the parties,” Desch said. 
Sebastian Rosato, Director of the Notre Dame International Security Program was asked by event organizers to represent the Democratic Party, while As­sociate Professor of Economics Eric Sims was tabbed to speak on behalf of Republicans. Vin­cent Muñoz, Tocqueville Asso­ciate Professor of Religion and Public Life, was asked to pres­ent Libertarian views. 
The views expressed by each respective professor are not-
see DEBATE/page 5 By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
Though his term as student body president has officially come to a close, senior Pat McCormick will take his leadership to Wash­ington, D.C., when he attends the National Campus Leadership Council (NCLC) Summit this week­end. 
McCormick, who serves as a member of the NCLC Executive Committee, said the conference represents the culmination of his collaboration with both the Notre Dame community and collegiate student governments. The goal of the summit is to form a nationally unifying student government enti­ty that promotes “advocacy power for individual campuses and cam­puses across the country.” 
“Over the course of the 2011­2012 term, we as a student gov­ernment collaborated with other schools to form a coalition of campuses nationwide in partner­ship with the NCLC and its staff of young professionals,” McCormick said. 
The summit will bring student leaders together through sessions at the White House and American University, he said. The repre­sentatives will address issues in 


Peer council assists students 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
When a Notre Dame student is referred to the Office of Residence Life for a disciplinary infraction, they also receive an insert from the Peer Advocates of Judicial Council, a group that assists them through­out the process. 
Senior Susanna Sullivan, Presi­dent of the Judicial Council, said this service is a crucial resource for students unsure of whom to ask for advice when preparing for an en­counter with Residence Life. 
“I’ve been surprised about the number of people who have told us that they haven’t told their friends because [their infraction] is embar­rassing … but these kids still need to tell someone,” Sullivan said. 
Senior Morgan Pino, vice presi­dent of the Peer Advocates, said students look for reassurance dur­ing the process. 
“Even just hearing [the possible consequences] are explicitly stated in DuLac can clear up issues,” Pino said. 
Sullivan said Christopher Haug, the Assistant Director of Residence Life, trains the Peer Advocates in the intricacies of the disciplinary process. This training allows them to provide the best assistance pos­sible for students during the proce­dures. 
“Chris has been great, he’s helped us with training sessions … and he had a mock hearing and mock conference for the peer advocates to learn about the pro­cess,” Sullivan said. “We also have resources in the office, from flow financial aid, campus sustainabil­ity, college accessibility and youth unemployment. 

Participants will also meet with policymakers to directly influence future legislation on these mat­ters, McCormick said. 
“This [summit] can serve as a means by which students na­tionwide can come together to confront shared challenges and advance broader national policy goals that are consonant with the concerns of individual student bodies,” he said. 
The conference will facilitate 
see NCLC/page 5 


Saint Mary’s prepares to welcome mothers 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 
This weekend Saint Mary’s will continue the tradition of welcoming mothers from across the nation as it celebrates Junior Moms Weekend. 
The weekend, sponsored by the class of 2013, will feature fine dining, tea and a ring blessing ceremony. 
Victoria Thompson, president of the class of 2013, said she is looking forward to this weekend’s activities. 
“[Vice president] Taylor Hans, my board and I started planning Junior Moms [Weekend] in November,” Thompson said. “It’s been a long pro­cess, but well worth it knowing that everyone will enjoy it in the end. “ 
A wine and cheese party kicks off the events Friday, she said. A silent auction will follow the tastings. 
“I am excited for the wine and cheese [party and the] silent auc­tion,” Thompson said. “Due to the generosity of parents and some lo­cal businesses, we were able to put together 45 great baskets. I am anx­ious to see how much money we will be able to raise.” 
Thompson said Saturday’s events will be highlighted by the blessing of the rings ceremony. The tradition has not been held for several years, she said. 
“We really pushed for the cer­emony because we felt that our class rings are an important part of our connection to Saint Mary’s, as cur­rent students and after we gradu­ate,” she said. 
Other events for the weekend in­clude a tour of the Riedinger House, a tea party and a formal dinner at the Hilton Garden Inn, she said. 
“We were able to come up with some really great ideas this year,” Thompson said. “We have a photo booth, a candy bar, [2011 Notre Dame graduate] Zach DuBois will be performing and our place cards are photo booth-sized picture frames for 
see MOTHERS/page 4 

charts as to how the process works and timelines [about when] to sub­mit materials.” 
Haug said the staff in the Office of Residence Life understands how easy it is for students to make oc­casional mistakes. 
“The people in Residence Life actually are all humans, we love this place and Notre Dame, and we certainly know that our students are good people,” Haug said. “We 
see ADVOCATES/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Icon discusses screenwriting page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Fashion by Felicia page 10 u Lacrosse to play Georgetown page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Friday, April 13, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD TAKE PART IN ANY HISTORICAL EVENT, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Dan Brombach Conor Kelly Nicole Toczauer Matt DeFranks Drew Pangraze Isaac Lorton Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Carrie Turek Photo Viewpoint Kirby McKenna Amber Galik  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 65 LOW 51 



Felipe Campos  Garret García  Ignasio  Kate Johnson  Madison Faller  Pablo Quan  
Junior O’Neill  Freshman Carroll  Aranguren Sophomore  Junior Walsh  Freshman Cavanaugh  Junior Dillon  
“The Crusades.”  “The Moon Landing.”  Dillon “The invention  “When the Beatles first  “The battle of Hogwarts.”  “The Moon Landing.”  
of bacon.”  appeared on the Ed Sullivan Show in 1964.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Six puppies set free from a locked suitcase 
TOLEDO, Ohio — What could be more adorable than six bulldog puppies sitting in a suitcase? 
An Ohio man has been charged with animal aban­donment after Humane So­ciety authorities matched his name with a suitcase in which the six puppies had been trapped. The suitcase, allegedly belonging to How­ard Davis, 53, had been left next to a garbage can in a Toledo alleyway. 
The puppies were discov­ered after someone noticed their mother pacing around the closed suitcase. 
Toledo Area Humane So­ciety spokeswoman Cyndi Condit told Reuters that Davis lives only two blocks from where the puppies were found. 

“Howard’s name was on the tag of the suitcase and the mother was licensed to him,” Condit said. 
Mother discovers newborn alive in morgue 
CHACO, Argentina — A baby in Argentina was found very much alive in a morgue by her mother 12 hours after hospital staff had declared the baby dead. 
The mother, Analia Bou­guet, tells TeleNoticias TV that the hospital still has issued her only a death cer­tificate for the infant rather than a birth certificate. Bou­guet said she is planning to pursue a medical malprac­tice suit. 
The Daily Mail reports that the baby was Bouguet’s fifth and was born prema­turely. 
Bouguet and her husband visited the morgue because they wanted to see their child one more time. 
“The baby was there and they put the little casket on a stretcher. We looked for a bar to pry it open,” the ba­by’s father, Fabian Veron, said in a press conference. 
The newborn has been named Luz Milagros, or “Miracle Light.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Javon Bea, President/CEO of Mercy Health System, will speak today in the Jordan Auditorium from 10:40 a.m. - 12:10 p.m. 
Lydia Goehr from Colum­bia University will present “The Agony of Improvis­ing - on Broken Strings: Toward a Theory of Fit and Wit” today at 4 p.m. in 220 Malloy Hall. 
The Nanovic Institute of European Studies will be showing the film Pina (2011) today and tomorrow in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center from 6:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Cost $3-6. 
Allen Hemberger, Pixar Visual Effects Artist, will be discussing the general work­flow of feature film visual ef­fects, general cultural and lifestyle of VFX facilities, and answering questions to­night in 102 DeBartolo Hall from 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. The Department of Computer Science and Engineering is hosting the event. 
Student Union Board will be showing “Mission Im­possible: Ghost Protocol” (2011) tonight from 8 p.m. 
-10:15 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall. If you miss this time, it will play again at 10:30 p.m. - 12:45 a.m. Cost $3. 
TransPose will host its Spring Show “Wonder: A Discovery of Our Nature Through Dance” this eve­ning from 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. in the Gallery and Reading Room of Jordan Hall of Sci­ence. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 








Friday, April 13, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

TV icon discusses screenwriting 
By MEAGHAN DALY 
News Writer 
Five-time Emmy Award winner Bill Persky will dis­cuss the craft of screen­writing in the “Golden Age of Television,” the first annual installment in the Spring Writers Series at Saint Mary’s. Persky will be joined by Adriana Tri­giana, a New York Times-bestselling author and Saint Mary’s alumna, who will host the event on April 27 in Carroll Auditorium. 
Persky said he began his television career in 1960. He said he created over 22 television pilots from 1975 to 1982 and became an icon during the so-called “Gold­en Age of Television.” Since then, he has been recog­nized for his work on “The Dick Van Dyke Show,” “Kate and Allie,” “That Girl” and several others. 
“I am constantly aware of what I’m doing in life and what other people are do­ing. I don’t write jokes … I just write life,” Persky said. “In fact, in all the shows that I’ve done there was a semblance to some­thing that happened to one of the people working on the show … they were re­latable.” 
Persky said two main fac­tors defined his success in the early years of tele­vision. The first was the originality of the writing. Writers were pure and un­influenced by previous se­ries as they are today, he said. Secondly, episodes challenged society and cul­ture in ways they never had before, he said. 
“We hadn’t watched [tele­vision,] we hadn’t grown up with it,” he said. “So ev­erything from the 60s was pretty much without the in­fluence of television. It was more about the influence of the life you were living.” 
Persky said he loved each of the shows he worked on for a different reason. 
“‘The Van Dyke Show’ 

was such an honor to be associated with because it was such a classic,” he said. “I love ‘That Girl’ in terms of what it did for young women at that time. Kate and Al­lie is very dear to me because … characters in situation comedies someti mes never change, but 
“I am constantly aware of what I’m doing in life and what other people are doing.  I don’t write jokes, I just write life.  In fact, in all the shows that I’ve done there was a semblance to something that happened to one of the people working on the show ... they were relatable.” 
Bill Persky Emmy Award winner 
Kate and Allie grew and changed and became stron­ger, more complete people.” 
Several aspects of soci­ety changed as the “Golden Age of Television” drew to a close, he said. 
Most notably, the role of women was elevated in life and on television, Persky said. 
Though he witnessed the rise of this trend, Persky said he has also witnessed its fall. 
“Reality television has lowered the intelligence level and the expectations of how people should behave,” he said. “It’s embarrassing, but it’s a statement of our whole society at this point.” 
Some television shows do incorporate elements from the “Golden Age of Television,” he said. “Modern Family” is one of those throwbacks. 
“The subject matter 
[they ’re] allowed to talk about would not have been avail­able back t hen,” he said. “[But] ac­tors from this sit­com are treated with the dig nit y and re­spect sim­ilar to the way [ac­tors] were treated back in 
the ‘Golden Age.” 
Persky said he and Trigiana will offer two master classes for Saint Mary’s students to at­tend as well. The first will be held on Thursday and is open to all majors. The second workshop on Friday is only open to English writing majors. Students are instructed to bring an idea for a sit­com for Persky and Tri­giani to evaluate. 
Contact Meaghan Daly at mdaly01@saintmarys.edu 


Professor presents macroeconomic blog 
By AMY KLOPFENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Economics professor David Ruccio discussed the cur­rent economic crisis through commentary on his blog “Oc­casional Links and Commen­tary on Economics, Culture and Society” Thursday eve­ning in Geddes Hall. 
Russio said his blog considers local and global inequality through the pre­sentation of data. He started his blog while on sabbatical in the summer of 2009 and previously wrote commen­tary on a personal website with little public exposure. 
Since then, his blog has grown to average up to 1,000 views daily and has had more than 300,000 views since its creation. 
The blog has led to many media appearances and his posts are frequently featured in the “Real World Economic Review” blog. 
“Occasional Links and Commentaries” focuses on American macroeconomics. Ruccio said research for the blog was challenging since his specialties in Marxian economics and development economics, did not cover macroeconomics. 
Ruccio said he thorough­ly researches issues prior to writing a commentary. These investigations result in four-to-eight blog entries a day. 
“I don’t write about it un­less I think I have something to say,” he said. 
Ruccio said the most sat­isfying part of his blog is to hear people have found the information useful. 
“Clearly, with 300,000 views, I reach a lot more people with this blog than I have through any book or article I have written, or any lecture I have given,” Ruccio said. 
In the future, Ruccio said he hopes to apply for fund­ing to pursue his research further. He said he would use the funding add long­term assistants. 
The lecture was a continu­ation of the ongoing series sponsored by the Higgins Labor Studies Program. 
Contact Amy Klopfenstein at aklopfen@nd.edu 



page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, April 13, 2012 
Mothers 
continued from page 1 
everyone to keep.” 
Junior Caroline Keep said she has looked forward to this event since freshman year. 
“I’m looking forward to spending the weekend with my mom and hav­ing her meet all my friends and their moms,” Keep said. “I think junior moms weekend is a wonderful tradi­tion at Saint Mary’s … and it will be a memory we hold onto forever.” 
Degree 
continued from page 1 
The University will also award mathematician Luis Caffarelli an honorary doctor of science degree. A leader in the field of partial differen­tial equations and their applications, he has taught at the universities of Minnesota, Chicago, and Texas and New York University and Princeton University. He currently serves as a professor of mathematics at the Uni­versity of Texas at Austin. Caffarelli received the American Mathemati­cal Society’s Leroy P. Steele Prize for Lifetime Achievement in 2009. 
Dick Ebersol, a longtime televi­sion producer for NBC, will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. His career credits range from “Sat­urday Night Live” to the Olympics, including eight of the top 10 most-watched television events in U.S. his­tory. Ebersol was also instrumental in acquiring the rights to televise Notre Dame home football games on NBC. He temporarily dropped out of Yale in 1967 to become television’s first-ever Olympics researcher, and he has worked to make NBC the home of the Games since 1992. For 22 years, Ebersol led the network’s coverage of professional baseball, basketball and football, including several Super Bowls. 
Archbishop Wilton Gregory will be honored with a doctor of laws degree. The leader of the Archdio­cese of Atlanta, Gregory served as president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops during his tenure as bishop of Belleville, Ill., in 2001, making him the first African-Amer­ican ever to head an episcopal con­ference. Pope John Paul II appointed him archbishop of Atlanta in 2004. He has written extensively on the lit­urgy and on Church issues, includ­ing pastoral statements on the death penalty, euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide. 
Notre Dame will award alumnus Kevin Hasson an honorary doctor of laws degree. Hasson is founder and president of the Becket Fund for Re­ligious Liberty, a nonpartisan pub-lic-interest law firm that represents people of all faiths, from Anglicans to Zoroastrians. As a Notre Dame undergraduate, Hasson majored in economics and theology, and he received both a master’s degree in theology and a law degree from the University. He served in the Justice Department and advised the White House on church-state relations and constitutional issues under then-Deputy Assistant Attorney General Samuel Alito. He is the author of several works on religious liberty,. 
Muhtar Kent, chairman and CEO of The Coca-Cola Company, will re­ceive an honorary doctor of laws de­gree. Born in New York and educated in Turkey and London, Kent began his tenure at Coca-Cola in 1978 as a truck driver. He rose through the company’s management ranks in Central Asia and Europe until 1999, when he became president and CEO of the Istanbul-based Efes Beverage Group. He rejoined Coca-Cola after six years with Efes and was named CEO in July 2008. 
Notre Dame alumnus Joseph O’Neill will be honored with a doc­tor of laws degree. A member of the Board of Trustees, O’Neill is the managing partner of O’Neill Proper-
Thompson said this tradition supports the college’s emphasis on strong women leaders and role mod­els. 
“I believe it’s common that many daughters look up to their mothers as a role model,” Thompson said. “Each student is able to meet her friend’s mothers and learn about each of them, what they do in their every day lives and increase her knowledge of what women can do to have a positive effect on our world.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
ties, a Texas oil and gas production company founded by his father, also a Notre Dame alumnus and Trustee. His service to the University includes a tenure as president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association and a member of the College of Engineer­ing Advisory Council. He is the bene­factor of O’Neill Hall and was elected to the Board of Trustees in 2001. 
Rev. David Tyson, C.S.C., will re­ceive an honorary doctor of laws degree. A member of the Board of Trustees and former president of the University of Portland, Tyson cur­rently serves as the provincial supe­rior of the United States Province of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, a position he has held since 2003. A Notre Dame alumnus, Tyson has served in several roles at the Univer­sity. During his tenure at Portland, Tyson led a major expansion of its campus, endowed teaching chairs and funding, including a tripling of the university’s endowment. 
James Wagner, president of Em­ory University, will be honored with a doctor of engineering degree.  An award-winning teacher, prolific au­thor and advocate of liberal educa­tion, Wagner has taught engineering at his alma mater, Johns Hopkins University, and Case Western Re­serve University, where he served as a dean, provost and interim presi­dent for five years. He became Em­ory’s president in 2003. 
Former Dean of the Mendoza Col­lege of Business Carolyn Woo will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. After leaving her position as dean in 2011, Woo is now president and CEO of Catholic Relief Services. In 1981, she joined the faculty at her alma mater, Purdue University, where she later served as director of the Krannert School of Management and associate executive vice presi­dent for academic affairs. She began her tenure as Mendoza’s dean in 1997 and solidified Mendoza’s focus on ethics and its top ranking among undergraduate business schools for the past three years. 


Program diversifies campus 

By CAROLINA WILSON 
News Writer 

The 2012 Hesburgh Inter­national Scholars Experience (HISE) will bring 60 accepted international students to the University on Saturday. 
Julie Denkler, Assistant Di­rector in the Office of Under­graduate Admissions, said Notre Dame is greatly ben­efited by the Hesburgh Inter­national Scholars program and its ability to continue the diversification of the student body. 
“A campus community is al­ways benefited by diversity,” she said. “We see diversity in numerous ways, [such as] geographic diversity, cultur­al and ethnic diversity, racial diversity, as well as religious diversity among others.” 
Denkler said this is the fifth year the Office of Un­dergraduate Admissions has brought international pro­spective students through the Hesburgh International Scholars Experience. This year the Office of Undergrad­uate Admissions accepted the most international stu­dents to date, with students from 22 different countries. 
“Two years ago, we expand­ed the program to include students from Europe, and this year, we invited students from Canada as well,” she said. “We are trying to give more of our top admitted in­ternational students the op­portunity to visit campus and see for themselves whether Notre Dame is a place they might want to spend the next four years of their lives.” 
Sophomore Paulina Rullán, an undergraduate leader for the HISE planning commit­tee, said the diversity inter­national students bring to campus is essential for an optimal college experience. 
“Notre Dame puts a huge effort to bring the best inter­national students and be part of our family,” she said. “This not only gives international students the opportunity to grow in another culture and have a great education from Notre Dame but it also brings diversity and makes the cam­pus a more interesting edu­cational institution for both faculty and students.” 
Rullán said one of the events includes a meeting with University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hes-burgh. 
“The program was created in honor of Fr. Hesburgh’s interest and passion for in­ternational students,” she said. “We have an incred­ible group of scholars com­ing to visit this year, and we thought that meeting with Fr. Hesburgh would just epito­mize their visit.” 
Sophomore Ignacio Aran­guren, a 2011 Hesburgh In­ternational Scholar, said the HISE weekend prepared him for his time at Notre Dame. 
“I remember feeling very thankful in the beginning of freshman year for HISE weekend,” he said. “It was really a great way not only to see life at Notre Dame first hand, but I was also able to meet the community that would be the essential part of my college experi­ence.” 
Aranguren said he hopes prospective students will take full advantage of the opportunities this univer­sity will offer to them. 
“I hope [the Hesburgh scholars] understand how important they are to the University,” he said. “If they choose to be part of Notre Dame, they’ll be represent­ing their family, country and culture at this school. Thanks to HISE, when they return in the fall, they’ll hit the ground running.” 
Contact Carolina Wilson at carolina.e.wilson.267@nd.edu 


Friday, April 13, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
one issue voter.” issue is the key reason Catho­ture for future student governments 
Debate 
Rosato said liberal meth-lics should support conserva-
NCLC 

to have a way into the White House, ods of lowering the number tive candidates. The Church 
and we hope it will provide a way for continued from page 1 of abortions through socio-aims to protect human dig-
continued from page 1 students at Notre Dame to continue economic support prove more nity above all else, he said. 
to engage national policymakers on necessarily their views, but effective than conservative “In the U.S., there have 
continuity between past and pres-issues of concern to our student body rather those of the party they methods. He said abortions been about 50 instances of 
ent Notre Dame student government in the future.” were asked to represent by declined by 12.6 percent each capital punishment each year 
administrations, as current student McCormick engaged in this ad-event organizers. year [former President Bill] … but in the U.S. there are 
body president Brett Rocheleau, a vocacy in December 2010 when he The three professors de-Clinton was in office, in com-over 3,000 abortions a day,” 
junior, will accompany McCormick represented student government at bated issues ranging from parison to the 7 percent drop Sims said. “Plainly put … we 
to the nation’s capital. the White House and advocated for abortion to healthcare. during [former President must as Catholics continue to 
“[One thing] consistent … is our Notre Dame’s Playing for Peace ini-Rosato presented the liber-George W.] Bush’s adminis-speak out against it even if 
commitment to the idea of working tiative. He and other campus leaders al position in the abortion de-tration. the odds are against us.” 
simultaneously on issues of conve-spoke with Samantha Power, the se­bate. He said the pro-choice As the chosen representa-Muñoz presented reasons 
nience and confidence,” McCormick nior director of multilateral affairs stance allows for a common tive to advocate for the Dem-for Catholics to align with 
said. “We hope that’s an example for the National Security Council and good available to many and ocratic Party, Rosato said the Libertarian Party, whose 
of the kind of student government one of the architects of the Obama that all issues should be con-Catholic voters must consider small government platform 
we’ve tried to build, one that’s big-administration’s policy surrounding sidered before voting, despite a careful balance of the ef-allows the Church to promote 
ger and more capable of working on the Sudanese Comprehensive Peace its contradiction with Church fects of each issue. their views in all aspects of 
these issues simultaneously.” Agreement. teachings. “The church recognizes life. He said when govern-
Rocheleau said the conference’s McCormick said he and student “A Catholic would only be that no party is perfect, [and] ment is only responsible for 
breakout sessions and speakers government initially became in-participating in evil by voting all they should do is vote for protecting individuals from 
will reflect the common interests of volved with the NCLC through an for a pro-choice candidate if the party that promotes the one another, churches, fami­
peers nationwide and allow for the advisory role with NCLC staff mem­you voted for him purely for common good,” he said. lies and private institutions 
exchange of ideas on these topics. bers. The team provided feedback being pro-choice,” Rosato Sims said from the Repub-shape moral development in­
“There will be a lot of different for the development of the organi­said. “You should not be a lican viewpoint, the abortion stead of law. 
perspectives on different issues,” he zation, which currently represents “Taxing is the taking 
said. “Maybe one student govern-more than 8 million students on 150 of others’ labor,” he said. 
ment did something that worked college campuses nationwide. “Modern liberals and con-
that we can try to implement at In early 2012, the NCLC selected servatives are committed 
Notre Dame. Hearing solutions to is-McCormick to serve on its Execu­to taking money and giving 
sues will be a great resource.” tive Committee, which consists of ten it to their friends to use it 
Expressing the opinions and con-student body presidents who com-in pursuit of their version 
cerns of Notre Dame students is key municate with other student body of the good life.” 
at a national conference, Rocheleau presidents at universities in their He said modern politics 
said. geographical regions, McCormick exist in a post-Christian 
“Our main goal is to advocate for said. age, where Christianity is a 
our students on a national level by “We saw [the Executive Com-minority view. As democra­
talking about issues Notre Dame mittee] as a valuable platform to cies reflect majority pref-
students feel similarly about, like advance our broader goals and ex­erences, government then 
paying for college and employment ercise full determination of what fails to be Christian. 
after graduation,” Rocheleau said. we choose to advocate for and work “To preserve space for 
“There are related policies being toward on our own,” he said. Christianity, we need to 
worked on in Congress that may not Although the conference focuses reduce the role of govern-
get a lot of press … but there’s power on current issues and concerns of ment,” Muñoz said. 
in numbers, and if we get a lot of U.S. college students, McCormick Sims said while each 
people behind something, we can said it sets a precedent for future party has its weaknesses 
make a big difference.” leadership of the country. and strengths, what is 
The advocacy for student inter-“The challenges we face as a most important is partici­
ests takes on a more influential role country will be shouldered by us,” he pation in the political pro-
within the NCLC and paves the way said. “Whether it’s the national debt cess. 
for the nation’s future college stu-or the energy crisis … this will be an “Make your voices heard, 
dents, McCormick said. opportunity to work with other cam-stand up for your beliefs, 
“This is a way to continue to am-pus leaders nationwide and begin to and don’t be ashamed of 
plify the voices of students who have articulate ways in which students them,” he said. 
advocated in the past and can now can contribute to national policies.” take them directly to policymakers 
Contact Abi Hoverman 

in a more institutionalized way,” he Contact Kristen Durbin at abihoverman@gmail.com 
said. “[The NCLC] is an infrastruc-kdurbin@nd.edu 
Haug said Residence Life is up-
Advocates 
dating its disciplinary process. “We’re cleaning house, going continued from page 1 through our process … [and] how 
we deal with policy violations,” know that good people trip up once Haug said.  “We’re seeing what is a in a while and our current process little worn out or old, checking what allows for students to take pause, some of our peer institutions are do-and then move on.” ing and asking around campus.” 
Pino said the most important tip Based on focus groups of stu­advocates give students is to main-dents, faculty and staff on campus, tain a good attitude. he said Residence Life improves 
“We emphasize that it is really their plans in response to concerns incumbent on you and your attitude voiced by those in attendance. to affect the outcome,” Pino said.  “If “One thing that came out of these anything we’re trying to encourage meetings from the student perspec­honesty, [for the student] to not hold tive was, ‘We don’t want other stu­back, but students aren’t necessarily dents up in our business,’” Haug prepared to be as honest with Resi-said.  “We heard really clearly that dence Life as they have to be.” they do not want other students to 
Haug said an open attitude will be a part of the decision-making of-help students move on from the dis-fice.” ciplinary incident after proceedings Haug said Residence Life holds with Residence Life end. open office hours every Friday from 
“I think my advice to any student 11 a.m.  to noon to further its abil­when coming in is just to remain ity to respond to the concerns of the calm, truthful and honest, and to Notre Dame community. The altera­know that the idea of Res Life is tions to the Residence Life process often more scary than [Res Life] it-will be introduced in the fall. self,” Haug said.  “Those of us here Haug said the Peer Advocates are at Residence Life want to restore the best resource available for stu­them to a full part in the commu-dents who need to navigate the dis­nity, that’s the most important part.” ciplinary process. 
Haug said the severity of the of-“I think that they’re underutilized fense determines whether Resi-for a group of great people who have dence Life meets with students in a a wonderful service to provide to the hearing or a conference. other students,” Haug said.  “The
 “Conferences are our more infor-thing is that they have received all mal setting, with usually the student of this training… [and] you have this one on one with the officer from Res really great group of people saying, Life and if the student lives on cam-‘I’ll walk with the student on this pus, the rector comes as well,” Haug journey.’” said.  “A hearing is our more formal Students can reach Peer Advo­setting, which would be a student, cates through the Judicial Council three conduct officers and the rec-at 574-631-5136 or at jcouncil@ tor if the student lives on campus … nd.edu. the hearing is also an opportunity for us to call in any pertinent wit-Contact Nicole Michels at nesses.” nmichels@nd.edu 



page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, April 13, 2012 

Zimmerman accused of ignoring dispatcher warning 
Associated Press 
SANFORD, Fla. — After weeks in hiding, George Zim­merman made his first court­room appearance Thursday in the shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin, and prose­cutors outlined their murder case in court papers, say­ing the neighborhood watch volunteer followed and con­fronted the black teenager after a police dispatcher told him not to. 
The brief outline, con­tained in an affidavit filed in support of the second-degree murder charges, appeared to contradict Zimmerman’s claim that Martin attacked him after he had turned away and was returning to his vehicle. 
In the affidavit, prosecu­tors also said that Martin’s mother identified cries for help heard in the back­ground of a 911 call as her son’s. There had been some question as to whether Mar­tin or Zimmerman was the one crying out. 
The account of the shooting was released as Zimmerman, 28, appeared at a four-min­ute hearing in a jailhouse courtroom, setting in motion what could be a long, drawn-out process, or an abrupt and disappointingly short one for the Martin family because of the strong legal protections contained in Florida’s “stand your ground” law on self-de­fense. 
During the hearing, Zim­merman stood up straight, held his head high and wore a gray jail jumpsuit. He spoke only to answer “Yes, sir” twice after he was asked basic questions from the judge, who was not in the courtroom but on closed-cir­cuit TV. The defendant’s hair was shaved down to stubble and he had a thin goatee. His hands were shackled in front of him. 
He did not enter a plea; that will happen at his arraign­ment, which was set for May 
29. Zimmerman’s attorney, Mark O’Mara, has said his client will plead not guilty. A bail hearing for Zimmerman probably will be held April 20, O’Mara said late Thurs­day. 
To prove second-degree murder, prosecutors must show that Zimmerman com­mitted an “imminently dan­gerous” act that showed a “depraved” lack of regard for human life. The charge car­ries a mandatory sentence of 25 years in prison and a maximum of life. 


The special prosecutor in the case, Angela Corey, has refused to explain ex­actly how she arrived at the charge. But in the affidavit, prosecutors said Zimmer­man spotted Martin while patrolling his gated com­munity, got out of his vehicle and followed the young man. 
Prosecutors said in the affidavit that Zimmerman “profiled” Martin, who was unarmed and wasn’t com­mitting a crime. 
“Zimmerman ... observed Martin and assumed Martin was a criminal,” the affida­vit said. “Zimmerman felt Martin did not belong in the gated community and called the police.” 
Zimmerman told authori­ties that Martin attacked him as he going back to his vehi­cle, punched him in the face, knocked him down and be­gan slamming head against the sidewalk. 


Two Coast Guard members fatally shot 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — Two Coast Guard members were fatally shot Thursday at a communica­tions station on an island off Alaska in what officials said appeared to be a double homicide. They have yet to identify a suspect. 
The victims were found at their work areas inside the Kodiak Is­land station early Thursday by another Coast Guard member, spokeswoman Sara Francis said. 
Officials believe a third person was involved in the shooting, she said, adding the rest of the roughly 60 enlisted personnel and civilians working at the station have been accounted for. 
Capt. Jesse Moore, commanding officer of the Coast Guard base on Kodiak, said the shootings likely occurred sometime between 7 and 8 a.m., soon after the two victims arrived for work inside one of the communication station buildings. 
The captain said he was not aware of any threats or anything else that might have indicated problems at the station. The station is equipped with security cameras, but it was not yet known if they cap­tured any evidence, he said. 
Moore said the base was “deeply saddened” by the loss of two ship­mates. 
“This is a tragic event and we are going to do everything we can to look after the families of victims, to take care of them and to protect the residents and citizens and other Coast Guard employees in Kodiak,” Moore said. 
After the shooting, security was increased at the base, about 8 miles from the island’s largest city of Kodiak. Officials called on the city’s 6,300 or so residents to re­main calm and vigilant. 
Francis said added security was in place at the base and an adjacent school. 
The station listens for radio transmissions from mariners and aircraft, Petty Officer Charly Hen-gen said. The staff is responsible for relaying distress calls to other Coast Guard stations and offices. 
The station has “secure front doors,” Hengen said, and requires staff and visitors to show identifica­tion. Francis said visitors and those not actually working at the station are usually provided escorts. 
The Coast Guard said the vic­tims’ identities would be released after family members were noti­fied. 
The FBI said agents flew to Ko­diak from Anchorage, about 250 miles away. 
Rear Adm. Thomas Ostebo, the commander of Coast Guard op­erations in Alaska, was in New London, Conn., for a conference at the Coast Guard Academy but left ahead of schedule. 
Ostebo could not be reached for comment. 


Convicted terrorist sentenced 
Associated Press 

BOSTON — A Massachu­setts man convicted of con­spiring to help al-Qaida was sentenced Thursday to 17½ years in prison after giving an impassioned speech in which he declared his love for Islam and said, “This is not terrorism; it’s self-defense.” 
Tarek Mehanna, 29, an American who grew up in the wealthy Boston suburb of Sudbury, was found guilty in December of traveling to Yemen to seek training in a terrorist camp with the in­tention of going on to Iraq to fight U.S. soldiers there. Prosecutors said that when that plan failed, Mehanna returned to the United States and began translating and disseminating materials on-line promoting violent jihad. 
“In your eyes I’m a terror­ist. I’m the only one standing here in an orange jumpsuit,” Mehanna said in U.S. District Court in Boston. He later added: “America will change and recognize this trial for what it is.” 
Mehanna was sentenced on four terror-related charges and three counts of lying to authorities. His family and supporters gave him a stand­ing ovation and called out “we love you” as he was led from the courtroom. 
During the sentencing hearing, Mehanna gave a sweep of history and com­pared the suffering expe­rienced by Muslims at the hands of Americans to the op­pression inflicted on Ameri­can colonists by the British. He mentioned Paul Revere, Malcolm X and Nelson Man­dela, among others, and said he came to appreciate the plight of the oppressed against their oppressors as a 6-year-old boy reading comic books. 
At times, he held up the picture of a 14-year-old Iraqi girl who had been raped by an American sol­dier and asked how anyone could not be angry about something like that. 
Massachusetts U.S. At­torney Carmen Ortiz called Mehanna’s remarks “disin­genuous” and said he came across as angry and defi­ant. 
“Trust me. Tarek Mehan­na is no Nelson Mandela,” Ortiz said. 
Mehanna also suggested he was approached about becoming a government in­formant, recounting how he was told he had “to make a choice” during an encoun­ter he had four years ago while leaving a hospital where he was working. 
“I could do things the easy way or I could do things the hard way,” Mehanna re­called being told. He later added: “The hard way is what you see before you.” 
As Assistant U.S. Attor­ney Aloke S. Chakravarty offered a rebuttal at the conclusion of Mehanna’s re­marks, Mehanna called him a liar and told him to sit down. The judge then called a recess. 
Ortiz said there’s no evi­dence that Mehanna was approached about becom­ing an informant. 
U.S. District Court Judge George A. O’Toole Jr. said Mehanna had become con­sumed with his religion in a way that was both admi­rable and horrifying. 
“I’m frankly concerned about the defendant’s ap­parent absence of remorse,” O’Toole said. 
Mehanna had faced up to life in prison under federal sentencing guidelines. 
Prosecutors asked for a 25-year prison sentence, saying he lived a “double life,” appearing as a “du­tiful and scholarly young man” to his family and community, but in reality, he “was a proponent of vio­lence as a means of achiev­ing political goals.” Chakra­varty lodged an objection to the 17 1/2-year sentence imposed by O’Toole. 
Defense lawyers sought a maximum sentence of 6 1/2 years. The defense says it plans to appeal Mehanna’s conviction. 


Friday, April 13, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 
AFGHANISTAN 


Military reveals Afghan war plan 

NORTH KOREA 
Missile launch sparks international concern 
Associated Press 
PYONGYANG, North Korea — North Korea fired a long-range rocket early Friday, South Ko­rean and U.S. officials said, de­fying international warnings against moving forward with a launch widely seen as a provo­cation. 
Days after threatening to do so, a rocket lifted off at 7:39 
a.m. from the west coast launch pad in the hamlet of Tongchang­ri, South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff in Seoul said, citing South Korean and U.S. intelligence. 
However, the launch may have failed, U.S. officials said in Wash­ington. Japan’s Defense Minister Naiki Tanaka concurred. 
“We have confirmed that a certain flying object has been launched and fell after flying for just over a minute.” He did not say what exactly was launched. 
He said there was no impact on Japanese territory from the launch. 
In Pyongyang, there was no word about a launch, and state television was broadcasting vid­eo for popular folk tunes. North Korean officials said they would make an announcement about the launch “soon.” 
North Korea had earlier an­nounced it would send a three-stage rocket mounted with a satellite as part of celebrations honoring national founder Kim Il Sung, whose 100th birthday is being celebrated Sunday. 
Space officials say the rocket is meant to send a satellite into orbit to study crops and weather patterns — its third bid to launch a satellite since 1998. 
The United States, Britain, Ja­pan and others, however, have called such a launch a violation of U.N. resolutions prohibiting North Korea from nuclear and ballistic missile activity. 
Experts say the Unha-3 car­rier is the same type of rocket that would be used to launch a long-range missile aimed at the 
U.S. and other targets. North Korea has tested two atomic de­vices but is not believed to have mastered the technology need­ed to mount a nuclear warhead on a long-range missile. 
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has warned that the launch would be a di­rect threat to regional security and said the U.S. would pursue “appropriate action” at the U.N. Security Council if North Korea goes ahead with it. 
According to projections, the first stage of the rocket was to fall into the ocean off the west­ern coast of South Korea, while a second stage would fall into waters off the eastern coast of the Philippine island of Luzon. 
North Korean space officials have dismissed assertions that the launch is a cover for de­veloping missile technology as “nonsense.” 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Adm. Bill McRaven, the head of U.S. special operations, is map­ping out a potential Afghani­stan war plan that would re­place thousands of U.S. troops with small special operations teams paired with Afghans to help an inexperienced Af­ghan force withstand a Tali­ban onslaught as U.S. troops withdraw. 
While the overall campaign would still be led by conven­tional military, the handfuls of special operators would become the leading force to help Afghans secure the large tracts of territory won in more than a decade of U.S. combat. They would give the Afghans practical advice on how to repel attacks, intelligence to help spot the enemy and communications to help call for U.S. air support if over­whelmed by a superior force. 
If approved by the admin­istration, the pared-down structure could become the enduring force that Afghan Defense Minister Abdul Ra-him Wardak indicated Tues­day at the Pentagon that his country needs, possibly long after the U.S. drawdown date of 2014. 
McRaven’s proposal amounts to a slimmed-down counterinsurgency strategy aimed at protecting the Af­ghan population as well as hunting the Taliban and al-Qaida. It’s not the counterter­rorist plan advanced by Vice President Joe Biden, which would leave Afghan forces to fend for themselves while keeping U.S. special opera­tors in protected bases from which they could hunt ter­rorists with minimum risk, according to a senior special operations official reached this week. 
Thousands of U.S. troops could remain in harm’s way well after the end of combat operations in 2014, tasked with helping Afghans protect territory won by U.S. forces. 
The special operations pro­posal was sketched out at spe­cial operations headquarters in Tampa, Fla., in mid-Febru­ary, with Central Command’s Gen. James Mattis and overall Afghanistan war command­er Gen. John Allen taking part, according to several high-level special opera­tions officials and other 

U.S. officials involved in the war planning. They spoke on condition of anonymity because the proposal has not yet been presented to Defense Secretary Leon Pa­netta or the White House. 
The Pentagon asked the top officials to draft propos­als to present to the White House after NATO allies decide how large a force to keep in Afghanistan, ac­cording to a U.S. official fa­miliar with the administra­tion’s deliberations. 
Leaders of NATO nations are to meet May 20-21 in Chicago to discuss the war, among other issues. 
The Pentagon by Sep­tember will draw down the 23,000 troops that remain from the surge of 33,000 troops sent to Afghanistan in 2010 to buy time for the Afghan military and gov­ernment to build both the numbers and expertise necessary to defend and govern themselves. Plans for the remaining 68,000 troops in Afghanistan are not yet complete, but most 
U.S. troops are scheduled to leave Afghanistan by the end of 2014. 
Allen, the commander of forces in Afghanistan, has indicated he would like to keep as many troops on the ground for as long as possible. But with a solid majority of Americans now against the continued U.S. presence in Afghanistan and the sped-up depar­ture of some of America’s NATO allies from the war zone, the Obama admin­istration is feeling some pressure toward a faster drawdown. 
The McRaven plan could provide a way to shrink troop numbers quickly without leaving a security vacuum as U.S. troops de­part, as has happened in Afghanistan before when NATO forces left an area. 
UNITED NATIONS 


Annan urges Syrian troop withdrawal 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS — Inter­national envoy Kofi Annan told the U.N. Security Council on Thursday he was “encour­aged” at the start of a fragile cease-fire in Syria but said the government failed to keep its pledge to withdraw troops and heavy weapons from cities and towns. 
U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice, the current council president, said Annan urged council members to demand that Syrian President Bashar Assad order his troops back to barracks. 
She quoted Annan as say­ing in his video briefing to the council that “troops and heavy weapons remain in population centers.” 
Annan asked the Security Council to quickly authorize the deployment of an ad­vance U.N. team to monitor the cease-fire, ahead of the deployment of a larger mon­itoring mission. South Af­rica’s U.N. Ambassador Baso Sangqu said discussions on the text of a U.N. resolution authorizing the deployment would begin Thursday after­noon, and diplomats said it could be adopted as early as Friday. 
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon cautioned that a single gunshot could de­rail the fragile peace that started at 6 a.m. Damascus time. He urged both sides to refrain from provocation. 
“It may be broken any time,” Ban said. “If and when there is another gun­shot, even a small gunshot may give both sides the pre­text to engage in another fighting. This is a very wor­risome.” 
Both Ban and Rice said the onus was on Syria to main­tain peace. 
“Its track record up un­til today has been dismal,” Rice said. “We hope, but we clearly remain cautious in our assessment, that today becomes the start of a new way forward. But I think, frankly, we have a year’s worth of evidence that leads us all to enormous skepti­cism.” 
The Assad regime has been using force to put down a civilian uprising for more than a year, and at least 9,000 people have died, ac­cording to U.N. estimates. 
Syria’s U.N. Ambassador Bashar Ja’afari reiterated to reporters that his gov­ernment is committed to the success of Annan’s mis­sion and insisted that “we have already complied” with the requirement in his six-point peace plan to pull back troops and equipment. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, April 13, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Parting is such sweet sorrow 
I did it, guys. 
I finished my thesis, turned it in and celebrated accordingly. 
When I initially signed up to write this Inside Column back in February, I knew it was due just days after my thesis due date. I wanted to use it to rant and rave about the process, telling all of the horror stories and late-night break­throughs I had. 

And then today came, the day Amanda Gray before it’s due, and I realized that’s no News Writer longer important. 
I mean, yes, my thesis is important, but I don’t want to talk about my thesis anymore. This In­side Column may very well be the last thing I write for The Observer. 
With that in mind, let’s wax a little more philosophical, shall we? I’ve got some wisdom to impart, and only 450 (wait, now just 300) words left to do so. 
I’ve learned how to write a thesis. But what have I really learned at Notre Dame? 
I’ve learned to love — love anyone and everyone that comes into your life. Ready for a cliché come true? Life is really too short to fight, or to hold grudges. 
Life on this college campus is even shorter. You’ve only got four years to make bonds with people that will last a lifetime — don’t waste that time on petty arguments or judgmental actions. 
I’ve also learned to let go. If you knew me before college, you know that I have always been a type-A personal­ity, crazy and super organized. And if you know me in college, you’d still say I’m the same. 
But this year, especially these last few months, I’ve told myself on numer­ous occasions to let something be “good enough” and go spend time with the people who mean a lot to me. 
In 20 years, what do you want to remember? Studying every weekend, or sneaking on to Duck Island, taking a spur-of-the-moment trip to Chicago, and dancing around your dorm room to 90s pop songs? 
That’s what I thought. 
I’ve also learned just how special this place is. I have moments when I’m near God Quad at 10 p.m., and in the quiet darkness I begin to hear the Basilica’s bells ring the alma mater, albeit out of tempo and tune. 
I have to stop as the realization comes over me: I’m not going to be here in a few months. I’m not going to wake up in McGlinn, walk out the front door and see the Dome. 
I realize I’m becoming the senti­mental senior. I’m the one who tears up when giving tours to prospective students. I’m the one who won’t stop taking pictures. 
I’m the one who finally broke down and bought a class ring, even though I always said it wasn’t for me. 
So, in these last lines, let me thank you, everyone, for making this a ride of a lifetime. 
Contact Amanda Gray at      agray3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

UWIRE Trayvon Martin case should be tried by a jury 
In a sure-to-be hotly debated deci­sion, special prosecutor Angela Corey announced that a grand jury will not examine the case of Trayvon Martin, a 17-year-old who was shot and killed in Sanford by self-proclaimed Editorial Board neighborhood watchman The Oracle George Zimmer­man. 
Corey’s decision means that she alone will decide the fate of Zimmer­man, who said he shot the teen in self-defense. Though the move may be an attempt to provide an unbi­ased ruling for Zimmerman in a case that has polarized the nation, a jury should still weigh in so that more than one person considers a very complicated case. 
According to USA Today, only first-degree murder cases require the use of grand juries in Florida, meaning Zimmerman will not be charged with first-degree murder in the case. Yet he could still be charged with a felony, such as manslaughter, and face a long prison stay — perhaps why he set up an online legal fees 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

fund Monday. 
The Martin family’s attorney, Ben­jamin Crump, told USA Today: “We want to beleive that this would be a positive sign that the prosecutor has enough information to arrest Trayvon Martin’s killer. The family is really trying hard to be patient and have faith in the system.” 
Leaving a case this important up to one person does not guarantee the correct conclusion will be reached. While we can assume that Corey may be more unbiased than certain individuals who have already formed opinions of Martin or Zimmerman, the arguably even more heated Casey Anthony case still held a jury trial even though jury members had been subjected to media speculation about the trial for three years. 
Had Zimmerman and Anthony both been charged and tried immediately, the fanfare could have been avoided, resulting in an unbiased trial by jury. Yet in the Anthony case, the jury ruled against the popular position that Anthony was guilty of mur­der because of the lack of evidence presented. It is possible a grand jury 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I’ve learned that you can’t have everything and do everything at the same time.” 
Oprah Winfrey 
U.S. television talk show host 


would offer a similarly objective verdict if Zimmerman was tried and is the very idea the justice system was based upon. 
The case has already spurned mas­sive protests, such as a sit-in that temporarily shut down the Sanford Police Department on Monday be­cause student activists were blocking the doors. Regardless of the fairness of Corey’s ruling, if the case were to be settled swiftly and behind closed doors it could cause questions of its legitimacy to linger and protesters to become more fervent or even violent. 
The Trayvon Martin case car­ries too many questions for it to be decided quietly by one person. The evidence surrounding the events of that night should be thoroughly vet­ted by a jury of Zimmerman’s peers and not left in the hands of a single individual. 
This article originally ran in the April 10 version of The Oracle, serving the University of South Florida. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 




Friday, April 13, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

Why these pages exist 
Most readers believe that editorial pages like this one exist merely to ex­press opinions and encourage dialogue. But pages such as “Viewpoint,” rooted not solely in the commercial domain but nestled in academ­ic settings — and Gary J. Caruso especially those of religious-affiliated Capitol institutions like Comments Notre Dame — serve a more important life-setting role for young adults. Unlike the Wall Street Journal or New York Times, The Ob­server more directly enlightens students on how to mold their adult lives through stimulating debate, personal experience and simple entertainment. On this pub­lished grid lies a daily spark with the potential to ignite each young mind to think on its own and make independent judgments that may or may not agree with older generational teachings. 
The most prized submission each day on this page is one that speaks on behalf of the few while enraging the many. Criticism of the Catholic hierarchy’s obstinate stale thinking is not a crusade against Catholicism, but a progressive voice moving to modernize and better the Church from within. Public protec­tion of a woman’s personally guaranteed Constitutional rights by any elected Catholic representative is not necessar­ily support of abortion. Including anti-discrimination language that individu­ally protects gay Catholics — regardless of Catholic dogma — is not an endorse­ment of any agenda by Notre Dame, but support of a human at Notre Dame. Broad concepts and their countering criticisms that affect future generations can, and should, be formulated on this printed swatch of space.
 Sharing equal time with those who disagree is the core freedom of our American value system rooted in and guaranteed by our magnificent U. S. Constitution. Such a powerful privilege peacefully quells the mob-mentality rule reminiscent of sustaining such historical horrors as those propagated by the Klu Klux Klan or Nazi Germany. The melody of equal opportunity to be free becomes so infectious across the globe through our instantaneous electronic world that governments fall whenever their citizens demand to be as democratic as the United States. Thousands of slaughtered civilian Syrians lie as testament against a tyrannical government in their recent quest to be like us.
 These editorial pages must feature today’s less popular forward-thinking leaders who, throughout the rich his­tory of the Roman Catholic Church, have thoughtfully challenged the status quo. In his Holy Thursday homily, Pope Benedict XVI indirectly mentioned one such thinker, a man who had portrayed the Vatican as an “absolutist monarchy.” Rev. Helmut Schüller, an Austrian priest who leads the “Preacher’s Initiative,” a call to disobedience, is supported by 400 Austrian priests and others worldwide. He contends that liberalizing the rules regarding marriage and women in the priesthood is a vital step for the survival of the priesthood and the Church. The number of priests in the U.S. alone has declined by a third since 1975. After all, change is not necessarily a detriment 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Vision Walk 
Did you know more than 10 million Americans are affected by blindness? This statistic is a sad reality for all ages, with many different causes and forms of blindness affect­ing children and the elderly alike. However, YOU can help! Research dedicated to curing blindness is taking place all over the country, as well as on this very campus! 
Join the Fighting Irish in this Fight against Blindness at the Biology Club’s Vision Walk on Sunday, April 15th. Registration begins at noon on South Quad, in front of Rockne Me­morial, and the event starts at 1 p.m. The Biology Club is so excited to sponsor an event to raise money for such a worthy cause and to promote awesome research in Notre Dame’s own Biology Department! 
The walk, which will journey around campus favorites, will serve as a source of awareness of the disease and raise funds to seek the cure in sight. Registration is $10 for students and $15 for non-students. 
An optional t-shirt is also available — it’s $7 for students and $10 for non-students. All monies collected will go towards the Foundation Fighting Blindness, the largest source of non-governmental funding for retinal degenerative disease research in the world. Read more about it at www.blindness.org. 
Thank you for your time and consideration in this fight against blindness. 
We hope to see you Sunday! 

Katie Pieper 
junior Pasquerilla West Hall April 12 


— for example, not too long ago, Notre Dame changed its traditional all-male status to ensure its own survival. Ulti­mately, the Church must also change.
 This column is often flooded with anonymously posted comments that cowardishly misstate the Catholicism of an issue while criticizing an unpopular position espoused on this page. This writer also routinely receives personal thank-you emails from readers who believe they have no voice until it is written on these pages. Consequently, these pages and this column are bound to repetitively admonish politicians who blatantly flip-flop on policy stances, such as opposing abortion but support­ing capital punishment. Likewise, since these opinion pages reside within a Catholic institutional setting, it is imper­ative to question the religious inconsis­tencies entrenched by a male-dominated hierarchy in an effort not to crusade against Catholicism, but to save it.
 This writer also prides himself in the role of confronting political or religious hypocrisy as the lone, “whining voice in the wilderness” through this column. What would Jesus do? He would accept with open arms while seeking repen­tance. However, his lone call from the wilderness was a call for repentance focused on the heavens, not on whether or not a priest could marry. What would Newt Gingrich do? Gingrich began his Capitol Hill career as a lone vocal back­bencher lobbing legislative bombs at the majority. Eventually, his persistent cries 
—
 while seemingly repetitive and whiny 

—
 nonetheless gave birth to an Ameri­can historical political movement. 


 These pages also serve best when some strong enough to bare their souls share a personal period of crisis or doubt, like this writer who felt disen­franchised from the Church during Lent. Notre Dame is a magical Catholic Disneyland, replete with a vast major­ity of like-minded persons living like-minded ideals, with considerably less diversity than the real-life world that lurks beyond graduation. Yet, accord­ing to a study conducted by the Center for Applied Research in the Apostolate at Georgetown University on Catholi­cism on college campuses, a quarter of Catholic students and nearly 45 per­cent of all others do not attend church after graduation. Unpopular “whining” on these pages seeks to better church understanding without abandoning core values espoused by Christ. 
How important are disagreeable thoughts? Ask those who seek democ­racy and are dying in the streets of Syria, or those freed from the tyranny of the Taliban in Afghanistan. They show why dissenting dialogue strengthens the faithful. That is why embracing those who challenge the majority is healthy. That is why these pages exist. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s adminis­tration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCa­ruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

UWIRE Facebook’s purchase of Instagram 
In yet another act of wistful money wasting, Facebook announced it would purchased the image-sharing appli­cation Instagram for a whopping $1 billion Monday. 
Let me share my overwhelm-Alex Antonetz ing enthusiasm. 
Cough. The Lantern 
I have long denounced Instagram as a platform for iPhone (and now Android) owners to take a vapid photo of a cloud or a tree and throw some kind of sepia-toned filter or a crappy blur tool over it in an at­tempt to make it look a lot cooler than it actually does. While that’s not what everyone does, that’s what a lot of people do, and it’s infuriating. 
Blowing that up and allowing Face­book’s more than 845 million users the chance to do that is a scary thought. I’m already planning my strategy on whose updates to hide on my timeline. 
Instagram is an app some describe as being for hipsters, even if the vast majority of the photos I see from my Instagram friends are of themselves at a bar with friends. There’s really no point in applying a filter that makes it look like the photo was taken on an old Polaroid camera when it’s just a photo of you so drunk that your brain is struggling to keep your left eyelid open. 
With Facebook dropping more mon­ey on this deal than the gross domestic products of some small countries, I can’t help but think that money would be better spent somewhere else. There are millions of starving people around the world who have no concept of the X-Pro II filter. They just want some soup. 
At any given time during the day, my Facebook timeline is flooded with pho­tos of corny quotes about love, some­thing making fun of (politician who represents the party I don’t support’s name here), and “jokes” that appeal to the lowest common denominator, such as something witty like, “I just don’t like you because you’re stupid.” 
It’s not exactly clear what, if any­thing, will change about Instagram with its new partnership, but if it means seeing photos of quotes saying “I’m with stupid” in sepia tone, count me out. 
Instagram does have its benefits. It was a perfectly apt platform to share photos with your friends without the extraneous frills of Facebook. In that sense, I liked it. I just can’t really tol­erate the lackluster “photographers” who get a little too carried away with the filters. 
I don’t mean to sound like a preten­tious curmudgeon, but I’m afraid of what a potential Facebook partnership could mean to Instagram. Instagram has its benefits, if you forget about all the faux-photographers who use it. It’s simple and easy, but if Facebook is going to throw your Spotify updates and what article you just read from the Washington Post on there, you can count me out. 
This article originally ran in the April 10 version of The Lantern, serv­ing the Ohio State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


This fashionista first laid stylish eyes on senior Bayo Omoyeni at a house party last fall. In a simple ensemble of jeans, t-shirt and leather jacket, he stood head and shoul­ders above the crowd. While a conversa­tion sparked by said leather jacket evolved into larger musings on greater fashion trends, including Mr. Omoy­eni’s Nigerian fashion origins, it became clear that this was a fashion summit led by Fashion Ambas­sador Mr. Omoyeni. Of course, the logical next step was a column. Without further fash­ion ado, read on as Mr. Omoyeni lets us in on the Nigerian fashion aesthetic. 
Fashion by Felicia: So, Bayo tell us a little about your home fashion aesthetic. 
Bayo Omoyeni: Well Nigeria is very diverse. With many different ethnic groups with different identities, there are over 300 languages which come with the people. In general, we divide Nigeria into three bigger groups. The north is home to the Hausa people, for example, and their traditional style is “kaftans”, and “babban riga”. They use a lot of plain white in their color palette and plain colors. For the men, you notice a lot of white attire with embroidery designs and color­ful hats. Ladies don “abayas.” The people of the east and partly the south are generally referred to as the Igbo. The Igbo are known for the ma­terial they use, and patterns are their default — lots of black with red accents, such as necklaces. They also use walking sticks as part of traditional dress. I’m from the west, from the Yoruba people. As part of our traditional dress we have, for example, the Yoruba hat, made of a hand-woven 
LAUREN KALINOSKI| Observer Graphic 


fabric, cotton, velvet or damask, and free in form so that you push it easily to one side when you wear it. Of course, there are combinations of these traditional fashion pieces between regions, it depends on your personal preference. For example, the Yoruba are known for the “agbada,” but it’s commonplace to see the Hausas wearing agbadas at different occa­sions. 
F by F: So it’s practically an exchange of cultures through cloth­ing? 
Bayo: Yes, you can say that. This exchange hap­pens on two levels. First off, we ex­change within the country. For example, it is common to see someone from the west 

dressed in a effort to pick 
Bayo Omoyeni in dashiki would go 
color schemes and layer. I used to think 
loose fitting and jeans as an example out, saying, 
and plan more than the average Notre 
kaftan or an of traditional and western “No, Bayo 

eastern lady modern fashion. 
wearing a traditional Yoruba attire of “iro” and “bubba” for an occasion. Another level of this cultural exchange is a mixture of traditional Nigerian fashion with Western widespread fashion. For example, using traditional Nigerian fabrics and materials to make clothes of Western designs, or simply mixing up traditional and western clothing elements. 
F by F:  When do you wear Western clothing, traditional or this mix of the two? 
Bayo: Well, of course, we were a British colony, so as Nigerians, we’re extremely influenced by both our traditional dress and Western dress. What you wear really depends on the occasion and your age. For example, to a wedding reception or birthday celebration for an older relative (basically the older crowd in general) you would wear tradi­tional dress. An agbada made of the highest quality fine lace is 
a way of showing class and the time and money you’ve spent on your dress. What you wear is definitely a reflection on your family and their status, just like going out dressed nicely — being presentable — is. At a more casual party with my friends, to relax, 

it’s mostly wWestern fashion and relaxed 
traditional attires — just like in the States. 
Fashion is here today, and in Nigeria tomor­
row.  Because of the weather it’s 
generally a t-shirt, khakis or shorts, 
and not a lot of layers because it is 
so hot. Generally, if you’re in your teens and twenties, you’re in Western clothing. Nigerians are very conscious of labels, just like Americans. You do see a lot of people mixing jeans with a shirt, and then a Yoruba or Hausa hat. Towards your late 20s and 30s, you’re more towards the traditional— a kaftan for a chill vibe may be the default. 
F by F: So, apart from these cultural influences of both tra­dition and the West, what were your style influences growing up? 
Bayo: My dad is definitely the most fashionable man I know. He dresses crazy well. I remember he taught me since I was a kid, noticing my clothes when I 

letting shoes get dirty or wearing sneakers 
pretty much constantly was all sort of new 
to me. Back home, I can say that we are 
more involved in our dressing, at least for guys. As a freshman, I couldn’t go out with my friends without iron­ing my shirt the way I wanted it. If it wasn’t ironed properly I couldn’t go out because I didn’t feel comfortable. When I came to ND, I was very much a “prep boy” in my style. I could never layer back home but because of the cold here I had to layer, so I’d make an 

Dame dude when it came to clothing. faded” or that shirt’s 
For example, I would wear sweater “The collar’s 
vests over nice shirts, khakis on a nor-too big.” 
mal day. I wasn’t comfortable wearing He definitely 
trainers a lot, so I think I’d default once highly influenced 
in a while to my respectable collection my dress style. 
of leather shoes. He also taught me it’s not what 
F by F: How has your style changed you have but how 
since coming to ND? you wear what you have that 
Bayo: It has significantly changed. In counts. The fit 
general now, I pay less attention to the is so important, 
detail of my clothes and I’m way more not so much the 
relaxed. label. My mother 
When I’m in London, though, with always taught me 
a lot of my Nigerian friends who study to make the best 
there, they’re so fashion-forward. It impression when 
takes a bit of time for me to stop myself I left the house. 
from defaulting to a simple t-shirt, She always says trainers and jeans look. you don’t know Omoyeni in traditional When I still do they ask, “Is this the 
who you will run Yoruba clothing. into during the day; you should strive to leave them with an impression of you that you’d be happy with and proud of. 
F by F: When you came to Notre Dame, what was different about the fashion aes­thetic? 
Bayo:  Well, my biggest surprise about Notre Dame was just how nonchalant people were, or at least guys were, concern­ing their dress. Even something small like wearing sweatpants multiple times a week, new fashion? What’s going on?” I still 
go for the chill vibe, though I’m easily 
the odd one out for a while. [I’m] just so chill now. 
Whether Western, traditional or both, it turns out fashion is universal. Here’s to keeping the chill vibe going, fashionistas, internationally. 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcaponig@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Friday, April 13, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

Republicans and mommies around the world gasped in united offense. M.R.S.­degree candidates fainted in horror. The Democratic National Committee sprinted into action. Mama Obama hit her Twitter feed hard. 
When Democratic strategist Hilary Rosen opened her mouth on CNN Wednesday night and let slip a less-than­politically-correct comment, the political gods that be began molding and folding their responses in true partisan fashion. Abandoned and alone, the once prominent pundit Rosen is having the Worst Week Ever. 
In a pointed comment calling out Repub­lican presidential candidate Mitt Romney 


Photo courtesy of mediabistro.com. 
Hilary Rosen 
for his underdeveloped understanding of women, Rosen said his perspective was obviously skewed since his wife Ann, a stay-at-home-mom, has “never actually worked a day in her life.” Oh no she didn’t! 
Mommy Romney, perfectly groomed and poised like her polished hubby, responded in a politically savvy fashion. 
“My career choice was to be a mother,” she said on Fox News. 
“And I think all of us need to know that we need to respect choices that women make. Other women make other choices to have a career and raise a family, which I think Hilary Rosen has actually done herself. I respect that. It’s wonderful.” 
And from then on, the issue was no longer about the economics of women, but instead who could suck up to progenitors more profusely. 
Mama Obama quickly told her tweeps, “Every mother works hard, and every woman deserves to be respected.” 
The White House disowned and disaffili­ated itself from anything Rosen, claiming records that tracked numerous visits from a certain “Hilary Rosen” could be numerous Hilary Rosens. 
Democratic National Committee chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz also took to Twitter and said, “As a mother of three there’s no doubt that raising children is work.” 
Ann tweeted, “I made a choice to stay home and raise five boys. Believe me, it was hard work.” 
And for Ann, it certainly has been a hand­ful. No matter how beautiful those Romney boys might be, there are five of them — who were born over an 11-year time span. Just as one became potty trained, another started using diapers. Just as one matured, another hit puberty. Just as one graduated college, another began. And if they’re as big of pranksters as their daddy claims to be, there’s no doubt Ann had her fair share of headaches. 

Photo courtesy of nndb.com 
Ann Romney 
However, Rosen’s point was bigger than simply telling Mommy Romney that by not working for a paycheck, she’s led a privi­leged life. Rosen was arguing that more at­tention needs to be paid to women who are both bread bakers and breadwinners. 
Her argument was well-intentioned, though the delivery was a little rough. The female vote is going to be crucial to whoever eventually calls the White House home in January, and Romney would be wise to heed Rosen’s message. 
Unfortunately for Hilary, this week proved that every Rosen has its thorns. While her point might have been valid, no one seems to be getting past its prickly language. Here’s to hoping she irons out the message before she’s doomed to the political grave. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By CARRIE TUREK 
Scene Writer 

Each year for the past 20 years, Lolla­palooza has drawn in hundreds of music fans from across the country. This year should be no different. Lollapalooza takes place each year during the first weekend in August at Chicago’s Grant Park. Lolla­palooza (mean­ing “something wonderful” and “giant, swirly lollipop”) is the three-day mu­sic brainchild of Perry Farrell, lead singer of alternative band Jane’s Addic­tion. Though it is only April, Lolla­palooza’s newly released lineup has fans making plans and plotting out the must-see shows of the sum­mer. 
Last year’s festi­val drew in 270,000 people over its three day span. Despite the increase in tick­et prices, this year’s demand should be no different. Three-Day Souvenir and Early Bird passes (at $75 and $200, respectively) sold out within hours. With over 115 acres of land for multiple stages, Lollapalooza’s popular festival boasts over 130 artists. Mov­ing away from the more indie vibe it has had in the past into a more mainstream position on the music scene, Lollapalooza seems to have something to please everyone. Jam-packed and full of energy, Chicago’s much anticipated and hallmark festival promises not to disappoint. 
As usual, Lollapalooza will feature art­ists and groups from many different musical genres, including alternative, rock and rap. Headliners of the past two years have includ­ed Lady Gaga, Arcade Fire, Mumford and Sons, Coldplay, Cee-Lo Green and Eminem. This year’s headliners and smaller acts have fans counting down the days until summer arrives. 
Must-See Acts 

Headlining this year’s festival are Red Hot Chili Peppers, The Black Keys, a reunited Black Sabbath and Jack White. Other acts in­clude well-known names like Florence + The Machine, The Shins, Franz Ferdinand and Passion Pit. 

In the past, lesser known artists have per­formed at Lollapalooza and later skyrocketed in popularity. Lady Gaga is one such exam­ple. Having performed on a side stage to less than wonderful reviews at Lollapalooza in 2007, she headlined in 2010. 
Walk the Moon performed as a non-head­liner in Grant Park last year and released an EP through RCA Records in Feb­ruary. 
This year, Lol­lapalooza wel­comes rising groups like Fun. (now famous for top tracks “We Are Young” and “All the Pretty Girls”) and Walk Off the Earth (known for cov­ers of “Somebody I Used to Know” and “Someone Like You”). 
In addition to Lol­lapalooza’s tradi­tional concert-type performances, fes­tivalgoers can look forward to a bigger selection of elec­tronic acts. Build­ing off the success of Perry’s electronic stage, Lollapalooza will feature acts like Bassnectar and Avi­cii this year. 
The day-by-day schedule of perfor­mances has not yet been released. 
Food 
The hot Chicago sun can make for exhaust­ing days out in the open fields of Grant Park, but Lollapalooza has you covered. Food ven­dors are visible throughout the park. Many feature classic Chicago choices and newer, innovative meals. In the past, Lou Malnati’s deep dish pizza was available for an afford­able price, as were Wow Bao’s Asian buns. Rainbow Cone offered their legendary five-flavor ice cream cones as a sweet treat; and for the more adventurous, Grahamwich spe­cialized in lobster corndogs. Vendors for Lol­lapalooza 2012 are not yet listed online, but if past vendors are an indicator of this year’s offerings, Lollapalooza fans should remain well-fed. 
Three-day passes for Lollapalooza are available for $230 at lollapalooza.com. Sin-gle-day passes are also expected to be avail­able later this summer. This year’s music festival will take place Aug. 3 through Aug. 5. 
Contact Carrie Turek at cturek@nd.edu 
LAUREN KALINOSKI| Observer Graphic 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 13, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Evaluating the flawed NHL draft lottery 
“With the first overall pick in the 2012 NFL Draft, the Wash­ington Redskins select Andrew Luck, quarterback, Stanford…” 
Relax, readers, the Colts and Redskins have not swapped positions, and Roger Goodell will announce April 26 that Luck is indeed heading to Indianapo­lis. 
The opening sentence is just a hypothetical if the NFL had a lottery to determine its top pick and Washington, as­suming its trade with St. Louis still occurred, leapfrogged the Colts. A similar situation hap­pened in the NHL this Tuesday. 
While “Suck for Luck” enthralled fans of NFL cellar-dwellers this season, the NHL had a witty rhyme of its own for lower-tier teams: “Fail for Nail”. Russian winger Nail Yakupov is ranked as the consensus top prospect in June’s entry draft, a consolation for fans of a team that had to endure a season which resulted in 30th place out of 30 teams. 
Except it didn’t work out that way. Unlike the NFL, where the worst team is automatically awarded the first overall pick, the NHL has a lottery system in which ping-pong balls decide. 
The league-worst Blue Jack­ets had a 48.2 percent chance at landing the top pick, with the Edmonton Oilers – the second-worst team – having the next best odds at 18.8 percent. Odds decreased down the line. While each non-playoff team can win the NHL lottery, the maximum spots a team can move up is four. Should a team outside the bottom five win the lottery, the first pick stays with the worst team. 
Things bounced Edmonton’s way and 2012 will mark the third year in a row the Oilers will pick first. 
As a Blue Jackets fan, I felt pure disgust. But after some yelling and tears nearly shed (no shame), I took a deep breath and tried to look at it from an objective perspective. The lot­tery has been a debate in sports circles often. What’s the best way to go about deciding who gets the first overall pick? 
I explained the NHL’s system above. The NBA also employs a lottery, but it can alter the draft order much more significantly than the NHL. In the NBA, the top three selections are chosen by the lottery and every non-playoff team has a chance at the No. 1 pick. The NFL and MLB both award the top pick to the worst team the previous season. 

The main argument in favor of the lottery system is it dis­courages “tanking”, or losing on purpose to get the top draft pick. 
However, while fans (and perhaps secretly the front of­fice) of a struggling team may be rooting for failure, the ones in control – the players and coaches – are still trying. They are playing and coaching for contracts and pride. And if the team is truly terrible, many of the players and coaches won’t even be with the organization years down the road when that draft pick makes its biggest im­pact. Therefore, the team that finishes last almost certainly wasn’t there from a lack of ef­fort, but instead because they were just that bad. 
Even if you were to say the players and coaches would tank on purpose, how does a lottery stop that from happening? While the first pick may not be guaranteed for the worst team, it still has the best odds. So any­thing short of equal odds for all non-playoff teams wouldn’t stop tanking if a team wanted. 
There are numerous prob­lems in the lottery system. One is that it opens up conspiracy theories. Though I do not be­lieve the lottery is rigged in the NBA or NHL, having a team win the lottery to pick first overall three years in a row (see the Oilers) or a team with a 1.7 per­cent chance to have the No. 1 pick and a hometown franchise player win the lottery (2008 Chicago Bulls and Derrick Rose) brings about criticism and scru­tiny that can be avoided. 
And of course, the lottery can prevent the worst team – the one who needs help the most – from getting the top selection. Though some would argue a team shouldn’t be rewarded for awful play with a high pick any­way, professional sports leagues are at their best when there is lots of parity. 
The NHL and NBA should abandon the lottery and follow the NFL and MLB. 
Contact Sam Gans at            sgans@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The         Observer. 
NFL 



Vitt to miss a third of season 

Associated Press
     NEW ORLEANS — Sean Pay­ton handed over control of his team to Joe Vitt once before and the Saints have decided to do it again. 
The Saints Thursday named Payton’s trusted second-in­command their interim coach, despite the fact that Vitt will miss a third of the season for his role in New Orleans’ boun­ty system. 
For his part, Payton received a season-long suspension — which begins Monday; Vitt, who takes over Monday, was handed a six-game suspen­sion. 
Saints general manager Mickey Loomis said in his an­nouncement that the team will address at a later time how to divvy up Vitt’s responsibilities during his six-week absence. 
“It is important that we keep Sean Payton’s philosophy front and center during this sea­son,” Loomis said. “Sean has been the driving force behind the tremendous success our team has enjoyed during the past six years, his leadership will be missed. But we need to set a course of action that gives us the best chance to win this season without our head coach. 
“We considered a number of great options to handle Pay­ton’s duties both internally and externally, but believe this will provide the most seam­less transition for our players and our coaching staff, allow­ing our offensive and defensive staffs to remain intact with the fewest changes,” Loomis continued. “This is the same structure we used last season during Sean’s knee injury.” 
Vitt, who carries the titles of assistant head coach and line­backers coach, briefly stepped in as acting head coach last season when Payton broke his leg. Vitt also was interim coach with St. Louis in 2005 before joining New Orleans as part of Payton’s very first staff in 2006. 
Vitt will be able to oversee the offseason training pro­gram and training camp before stepping aside for the first six weeks of the regular season. 
The NFL played no role in the decision-making process. 
“It’s the Saints’ decision,” NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said, adding the team did not have to get approval from the league to make Vitt the interim coach. 
Loomis said the Saints ex­pect to have a plan laid out for Vitt’s absence by training camp. 
“We are fortunate to have a great veteran coaching staff well equipped to handle this challenge,” Loomis said. “Joe and Sean have worked closely together to build our program, one of the most successful in the NFL in the past six years, and I have the fullest confi­dence that Joe will continue that success that Sean has brought us.” 
The Saints’ assistants who can pick up the slack during Vitt’s absence include: offen­sive coordinator Pete Carmi­chael, offensive line coach Aar­on Kromer and new defensive coordinator Steve Spagnuolo. 
— 
Carmichael joined the Saints in 2006, began calling plays after Payton’s injury last season. Payton allowed Carmi­chael to continue calling plays through the final 10 regular season games of 2011 as the Saints went 9-1 and broke nu­merous NFL offensive records. 

—
 Kromer oversees the run­ning game, will be entering his fifth season in New Orleans and like Carmichael has been mentioned as an up-and-com­ing head coaching candidate around the NFL. 

—
 Spagnuolo was a head coach in St. Louis the past three seasons and defensive coordinator for the New York Giants’ 2007-08 Super Bowl winning team. 


The decision gives Saints players a measure of certainty and direction as the Monday opening of the offseason train­ing program approaches. 
Still looming, however, are possible punishments for be­tween 22 and 27 current and former Saints defenders that the NFL says participated in the crunch-for-cash bounty system that disgraced former Saints defensive coordinator has apologized for running for the previous three seasons. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

ATTN: Faculty/Grad Students. Spacious 2br,2-1/2 ba with This Day in History Future President Thomas 
FOR RENT PERSONAL WANTED 

LR,DR,fam rm, 4-season rm, AC, Jefferson, drafter of the Sec Sys, 2-car gar, near campus, On this day in 1997, 21-year-old Declaration of Independence and bsmt, fen. yrd + utility rm, no pets. Tiger Woods wins the prestigious the nation’s preeminent political 
Attn: Faculty/Grad Students. $1500/mo + utilities. 262-332-0015 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t Summer Child Care Needed Masters Tournament by a record theorist, is born on this day in Immac 3br with large rec room, go it alone. Notre Dame has many Seeking female college student 12 strokes in Augusta, Georgia. It 1743. garage, walk to campus. $1200/mo 2 Bedroom Furnished House Easy resources in place to assist you. to care for 8-year-old boy and was Woods’ first victory in one of 
+ utilities 847-420-7589 walk to ND Nick: 574-309-3758 If you or someone you love needs transport 16-year-old girl to/from golf’s four major championships– Butch Cassidy, the last of the great 
Email rmfopen@gmail.com confidential support or assistance, work weekdays during summer in the U.S. Open, the British Open, western train-robbers, is born on please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Mishawaka. Must have own car. the PGA Championship, and this day in Beaver, Utah Territory. 1-7819. For more information, Hours 7:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. Call 574-the Masters–and the greatest visit ND’s website at: http:// 274-3778. performance by a professional pregnancysupport@nd.edu golfer in more than a century. 
Friday, April 13, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
FENCING 
Irish athletes compete individually 


By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Although the season has ended for Notre Dame, some of its top fenc­ers will compete in the United States Fencing Association’s national cham­pionships this weekend in Virginia Beach, Va. 
The results do not directly affect Notre Dame’s standings in the NCAA, but Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said the competition gives him a good idea of where his team will be for next year, as well as confirmation that the program can prepare fencers for the next level. 
“It’s always confirmation that we are not only strong on the college-age fencing, but we are also strong and with dreams to be on Olympic teams,” Bednarski said. 
One of the problems the Irish faced during their pursuit to repeat as na­tional champions, which ended with a third-place finish at the NCAA championships, was the loss of their best competitors to the Olympic trials Sisters Courtney and Kelley Hurley and training. will compete in the women’s foil. Kel­
“This is important, psychologically ley graduated from Notre Dame in important,” Bednarski said. “It won’t 2010 and was a two-time first-team give us a higher position in NCAA at All-American during her time here. this moment. But it builds a founda-She competed in the Beijing Olym­tion for next year.” pics in 2008 and an NCAA champion 
Those fencers will be back repre-in the same year. Courtney, a senior, senting Notre Dame and themselves competed for the Irish last season, a this weekend. In total, 13 fencers will key figure in their national champi­represent the Irish. Eight of those onship campaign, and has spent this fencers are currently competing year qualifying and training for the for Notre Dame and were with the Olympics. She was a two-time first-Irish all season: sophomore epee-team All-American in 2009 and 2010. ist Michael Rossi, freshman epeeist Race Imboden and Gerek Mein-Ashley Severson, sophomore foilists hardt are both enrolled at Notre Nick Kubik and Rachel Beck, junior Dame, but have taken the year off to foilist Grace Hartman, senior foilist qualify for the Olympics. Meinhardt Radmila Sarkisova, freshman foilist competed in the 2008 Olympics and Madison Zeiss and sophomore sab-won the 2010 NCAA foil crown. reur Kevin Hassett. Lee Kiefer, a women’s foilist, has 
NHL 
Kelly’s overtime blast lifts Bruins to victory 


signed a national letter of intent to attend Notre Dame next year. She will compete this weekend as well. 
The number could have been even higher, Bednarski said. Be­cause the Irish were not allowed to hold formal practices for the event in the postseason, as well as the tough time it is academically at the end of the semester, some fencers decided not to make the trip. 
“The whole team will observe how our leaders compete in a big battle,” Bednarski said. 
The USFA national championship begin today and run all day through Saturday, Sunday and Monday in Virginia Beach, Va. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


Associated Press 
BOSTON — Chris Kelly’s new­est piece of jewelry is a thick, padlocked chain that he wore around his neck after scoring the game-winning goal in Bos­ton’s playoff opener on Thurs­day night. 
The message: Try not to be the weak link 
“He wasn’t,” Bruins goalie Tim Thomas said after Kelly’s goal on a long slapshot 1:18 into overtime gave the defend­ing Stanley Cup champions a 1-0 victory over the Washing­ton Capitals in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series. 
“I had a good feeling that it was going to go in, and I had a good feeling about the guy who had the puck,” said Thomas, the reigning Vezina and Conn Smythe Trophy-winner. “I could tell he had something to­night. He’d been winging a few past me in practice the past few days.” 
Thomas stopped all 17 shots he faced for Boston to earn his sixth career playoff shutout — four of them on Boston’s 2011 championship run. But he was matched for three periods by Capitals goalie Braden Holtby, a third-stringer making his playoff debut because of inju­ries to Tomas Vokoun and Mi­chal Neuvirth. 
Holtby made 29 saves for the Capitals, and he was still per­fect when Thomas turned back Marcus Johansson with a toe save that started the Bruins on the break. Brian Rolston dropped it for Benoit Pouliot to clear the zone, and he pushed it up to Kelly. 
At the top of the left playoff circle, Kelly uncorked a slap­per that sailed over Holtby’s glove for the game-winner. That earned Kelly the neck­lace that has taken the place of last year’s good luck charm, a tattered windbreaker that the Bruins handed out to the star of the game during their run to the franchise’s first NHL title since 1972. 
“It’s always nice to end it fairly early,” said Kelly, who thought the shot deflected off a defenseman’s stick. “Goal­ies are so good now I think the days of going down the wing and beating a goalie are long gone. So I was pleasantly sur­prised to see it go in.” 
Washington star Alex Ovech­kin consoled Holtby on the ice while the Bruins celebrated their first victory in their quest to become the first repeat Stan­ley Cup champions since the Detroit Red Wings in 1997-98. 
Game 2 is Saturday at the TD Garden before the series moves to Washington for Games 3 and 4 on Monday and Thursday. 
“The next game will be differ­ent,” Ovechkin said. “We know we can play against them. Holt-by played a hell of a game. He was nervous but once he made the first save he calmed down.” 
Kelly, 31, had career highs with 20 goals and 39 points with a plus-minus of 33 that was tied for third in the league. 
“The coaching staff has talk­ed about how he has been the unsung hero this year,” Bru­ins coach Claude Julien said. “Scoring 20 goals something he has never done before - he hasn’t always had the same wingers. He has produced this year more than ever and been so reliable defensively.” 
A 21-year-old veteran of just 21 NHL games, Holtby moved into the Capitals’ lineup be­cause of Vokoun’s groin injury and a left leg injury to Neuvirth. He played in only seven games this season, but he started five of Washington’s final 10 games and finished with a 2.48 goals-against average. 
He helped the Capitals kill off six virtually consecutive minutes of a man advantage at the end of the first and the beginning of the second peri­od, along with Boston’s 4-on-3 power play later in the second. 
“I got a little sloppy with some things, and those are the things I’ll need to make improvements on for the next game,” he said. “But, mainly, I wasn’t there for the boys in overtime and I’ll definitely be better for that.” 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, April 13, 2012 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Seniors to conclude home career 



By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
After a big win over Texas A&M, the Irish will try to con­tinue their success when they face Louisville this weekend in their last match before the Big East tournament starts. 
Notre Dame (17-7, 2-1 Big East) defeated Texas A&M in what was just their second home loss in their past 49 home matches. 
“Almost everybody played well,” Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. “This should give us plen­ty of confidence as the season nears its conclusion.” 
Notre Dame will take on the Cardinals (16-7, 0-0) in the lat­est of what has been a com­petitive history between the two teams. The Cardinals have been a talented program of late (consistently ranking in the top 15 over the past two years), but graduated a large senior class in 2011. One of the biggest ad­vantages Louisville holds is the element of surprise, as they have a very large and talented freshman class the Irish have never faced before. 
“We have a pretty spirited rivalry with the Cardinals,” Bayliss said. “Since they joined the Big East we have played many close, nail-biting match­es. This year should be no dif­ferent. Because they have some new faces, I think it puts more of an edge to things, as we have not yet seen several of their players. Their freshman class blends well with their two re­turning starters from 2011.” 
The match will have an add­ed element of nostalgia, since it will be the last home match for the careers of Irish seniors Casey Watt, Sam Keeton, Dav­en Brodess and Niall Fitzger­ald. 
“Certainly those guys want to go out in a way they will re­member for a long time,” Bayl­iss said. “I am excited because we seem to be peaking at just the right time. If we can play more solidly in our doubles we are going to be tough to beat going into [the Big East and NCAA tournaments].” 
Although this is the final match of the regular season, Bayliss does not see this match any differently than he does any other. 
“I try to approach every match with the same mindset,” Bayliss said. “Putting greater emphasis on one might jeopar­dize attitudes going in and put undue pressure on our guys. The only difference in how we are preparing will depend on the weather forecast and its bearing on needing to get some indoor time under our belts.” 
The Irish are set to square off against the Cardinals on Saturday at 1 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Center. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
ROWING 
Irish to face top-ranked Virginia 
Observer Staff Report wins, including a 32-second tri-and No. 19 Minnesota — along umph, against Indiana, Louis-with Northeastern, Pennsylva-
After nearly three weeks off ville and Purdue in Indianapo-nia and San Diego. The Irish, from competition, the Irish will lis. The day before, Notre Dame Huskies and Toreros each re-return to action this weekend dropped a race to Ohio State. ceived votes in the latest CRCA/ when they travel to Charlottes-The Virginia Invite features US Rowing Coaches poll. ville, Va., for the Virginia Invite. five ranked teams — No. 1 Vir-Action begins at 9 a.m. on 
In their last time out March ginia, No. 14 Cornell, No. 15 Lake Monticello in Charlottes­25, the Irish claimed six race Michigan State, No. 18 Clemson ville, Va. 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Saint Mary’s readies for MIAA opponent 


By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles, winners of three of their last four con­tests, look to continue their recent winning ways and move into the top four of the MIAA in a doubleheader at Olivet this afternoon. 
Saint Mary’s (16-8, 3-3 MIAA) recently split a road doubleheader against conference rival Hope on Wednesday. After taking the first game in a 3-0 shutout, the Belles dropped a heart­breaking, 11-inning affair, 9-7. 
Meanwhile, Olivet (8-16, 3-3) also split a doublehead­er on Wednesday against Adrian College, winning the second game 10-7. The Com­ets, however, have struggled in non-conference play, with just five wins. In addition, two of their three MIAA wins came against 2-18 Kalama­zoo. 
Despite Olivet’s struggles, Belles’ coach Erin Sullivan cautioned against looking past the Comets. 
“Every year, Olivet is tough to take two wins from,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “They’re a determined, middle-of-the-pack squad that finds a way to win.” 
Sophomore Callie Sel­ner will look to anchor the Belles’ pitching efforts this weekend, especially after her performance on Wednesday. Selner carried the Belles in the first game as she allowed just five hits over seven in­nings. While she only struck out one, she induced bad con­tact from opposing batters and did not issue a walk. 
“She really picked her spots well,” Sullivan said. “She’s a smart pitcher, and [catcher Megan Bedan] also called a great game.” 
Selner leads the Belles with seven wins along with a 
2.30 ERA and 53 strikeouts. 
In the second game Wednesday, Hope appeared to be in control with a 5-0 lead in the seventh. However, the Belles rallied and tied the game on a two-out, two-run double by junior infielder Emily Sherwood. After tying the game again in the ninth and tenth, the Belles could not match Hope’s two runs in the 11th. 
“[Despite the loss], the game was a positive for us,” Sullivan said. “We fought hard through 11 innings, and it was a game neither team wanted to lose. It makes us more excited for our next game.” 
Following today’s game, the Belles return home for a non-conference doublehead­er with Franklin College on Sunday at 3:30 p.m. 

Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 



Friday, April 13, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
SMC TENNIS 
Sexton clinches victory for Belles over Bethel 

By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
With the whole match riding on her performance, fresh­man Kayle Sexton showed ma­turity and toughness beyond her years. Sexton, playing at the No. 2 singles spot, clinched a 5-4 win for the Belles over Bethel with a dominant per­formance in her third set. 
This was the first match for the Belles (9-6, 2-2 MIAA) in twelve days, but the rest didn’t appear to slow Saint Mary’s down against 
“I think we need to come 
Bethel (10-7, Campbell 
4-4 MCC). out strong in doubles. said. “Usu­
“It was It’s important to us to ally we take a great try to win two or three of care of busi­match,” those doubles matches.” ness in the Belles coach doubles Dale Camp-matches
Dale Campbell 
bell said. where we 
Belles coach 
“We have beaten Beth­el a number of times before, but their team was stronger this year.” 
Campbell said he was ex­pecting a good matchup, but the match managed to even top his expectations. 
“I was expecting a good bat­tle, and it turned out to be an even better battle,” Campbell said. “It was a very good come from behind team win that shows the fight and ability of our team to win such a close match.” 
Sexton was not the only Belle whose performance stood out to Campbell. Sophomore Mary Catherine Faller managed a 7-5, 7-5 win over Bethel soph­omore Molly O’Grady. 
“[Faller’s] opponent was perhaps a scholarship-level player,” Campbell said. “In Di­vision III we don’t have athlete scholarships so she is a rare talent.” 
O’Grady was Bethel’s co-MVP last season, while also turning in an All-MCC season. 
“[Faller] really played a pretty tough number one,” Campbell said. “I thought she was playing her best and real­ly displayed her talent to win that match.” 
Outside of Sexton and Fall­er, freshmen Jackie Kjolhede and Audrey Kiefer managed victories for the Belles in sin­gles. Surprisingly, the Belles struggled against Bethel in doubles, losing two of the three matches. Still, Sexton and freshman Shannon Elliot were able to take the second doubles match with an im­pressive 8-2 victory. 
“Today, we didn’t come out as ready early on in doubles, 
so we got be­
hind early,” 
appear to 
be at a little higher percentage this season compared to singles.” 
This is an area where the Belles will look to improve when they play next. On Satur­day, the Belles travel to Adri­an for a conference match. 
“I think we need to come out strong in doubles,” Camp­bell said. “It’s important to us to try to win two or three of those doubles matches.” 
As a conference opponent, the matchup against Adrian (5-5, 2-3 MIAA) will prove to be important down the line for the Belles. Campbell said the match should also be a close contest, as Adrian is a much-improved team from last year. 
“I think we’ve had similar results against similar teams, so it should be a good match,” Campbell said. “I wouldn’t be surprised if we had another very close match.” 
The Belles will look to get their third win in a row and move above the .500 mark in the conference as they play at Adrian on Saturday at 1 p.m. 


Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish prepare for Border Battle 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will be participat­ing in a meet of different sorts this weekend when they travel to Louisville for the Border Bat­tle meet. 
This meet, which features Notre Dame, Indiana, Kentucky and Louisville, pits the Indiana schools against the Kentucky schools in a contest between the “Hoosiers” and the “Com­monwealths”. 
“It’s a cool meet, because the two states are scored against each other,” senior pentathlete Maddie Buttinger said. “It’s a competitive atmosphere be­cause you’re on a team with another school as well as on a team with your own school.” 
“It’s definitely unique,” senior middle-distance runner Randy Babb said. “It’s definitely more fun than any other meet we run outdoors. It’s definitely com­petitive but it’s low-key, in that there’s only four teams, where­as at Stanford last weekend there were dozens of teams.” 
The meet, while competitive, promotes camaraderie and in­cludes a dinner for all of the athletes. 
“It’s a fun meet,” Buttinger said. “There’s usually really good weather and people typi­cally perform really well. It’s kind of a relaxed environment, so it’s different from other meets.” 
“It’s a lot more low-key,” Babb said. “We’re definitely compet­ing against IU [as well as the Kentucky schools] but it’s fun how they score the meet Indi­ana versus Kentucky. It’s the ‘fun factor’ that sets this meet apart from the rest and part of that fun is competing with IU.” 
Last weekend, at the Stan­ford Invitational, many Irish athletes qualified for the NCAA Regional meet. With just three weeks until the Big East meet, many of the athletes are turn­ing in strong performances. 
“We’re coming off a strong indoor season and moving for­ward our goals are always the same: qualify as many people for [the regional meet], but most importantly, win the Big East meet.” Babb said. “It’s nice hav­ing that confidence coming off the indoor season and it’s going to inspire us coming up on the outdoor Big East meet.” 
One of the Irish’s top per­formers, junior middle-distance runner Jeremy Rae, was rec­ognized as the Big East’s Track and Field Athlete of the Week this week. Both Babb and Butt­inger said that though this is an individual award, Rae’s success resonates with the team. 
“It’s great to know he’s one of the top athletes in the coun­try,” Babb said. “For him to win this honor again just shows how consistently he can compete at a top level. For the team, it’s great to know we have a leader both emotionally and vocally for the team as well as on the track.” 
The fact that this meet is only one day long will affect how the Irish prepare, Buttinger said. 
“There are so many more events condensed into a short time,” Buttinger said. “You have to plan your events properly be­cause there is a lot less time be­tween them. You have to really make sure you’re warming up the whole time and planning.” 
Notre Dame will help rep­resent Indiana at the Border Battle in Louisville, Ky., on Sat­urday. 


Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 

SMC GOLF 

Belles to face tough field in Illinois 
By ANDREW CARDOZA 
Sports Writer 
This weekend the Belles will travel to Normal, Ill., for Illinois Wesleyan’s annual Spring Fling Tournament to compete in their biggest meet of the season thus far. 
“This meet gives us the oppor­tunity to see where we are this far in the season,” Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. “We have to know what it takes to be a top ten team, but there is work to be done before that goal can be re­alized.” 
In this two-day meet, the Belles will face a very competi­tive field featuring conference rival Olivet, the host Titans, DePauw, North Central College, Central College and Washing­ton-St. Louis. 
“This will be a great meet,” Hamilton said. “This weekend at IWU will be an important measuring stick for us, [as] five of the top-10 programs will be in the 18-team field. I expect noth­ing but big performances and a fantastic finish to this weekend.” 
In his squad’s final invita­tional of the year, Hamilton will look for team improvement and growth rather than focus­ing on the results. This will be the Belles’ last tournament to prepare for the MIAA and NCAA qualifier rounds later this month. 
“We need to work on trust­ing our games, trusting what we practice and not be afraid to take it to the course in competi­tion,” Hamilton said. “We need everyone to play well and give it their all. The beauty of a two-day meet is you can assess your growth and make adjustments accordingly, the next day.” 
The Belles are coming off an encouraging performance from the Southwestern Invitational. Saint Mary’s competed against three nationally-ranked teams among other competition while placing fourth overall. The Belles hope to grow from this performance and use it to their advantage in the upcoming two-day meet. 
“This meet will not only be a physical meet but it will help our team grow as a whole,” Ham­ilton said. “We will learn a lot from this meet, find our mis­takes and learn from them from the first hole to the last. Each member on the team will play a big role in their own learning process.” 
The Belles will not only look for strong performances on the course but they will try to con­sistently play well as a team. 
“Last meet was combination of disappointment and excite­ment,” Hamilton said.  “Dis­appointed because we did not come away with a victory but excited about the progress we have made.” 
Illinois Wesleyan’s annual Spring Fling begins Saturday and will continue Sunday in Normal, Ill. 


Contact Andrew Cardoza at acardoza@nd.edu 


Friday, April 13, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Seniors to play final match at home 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
Irish seniors and co-captains Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews will play their final match on Notre Dame’s campus Saturday as No. 19 Notre Dame takes on No. 40 South Florida. 
The Senior Day matchup pits the Irish (15-7, 3-0 Big East) against a formidable South Florida squad that has won seven of its nine last con­tests. After defeating Texas A&M following back-to-back losses to Northwestern and Baylor, the Irish will look to close out their home sea­son with another victory before their final regular season match at Louis­ville. Mathews stressed the impor­tance of these last few matches. 
“We only have a couple of dual matches left so in these last matches everything is important. Every point is really crucial across the board,” she said. “Having everybody com­peting really well [is important] be­cause during a match moments can change really quick so making sure everyone’s playing every point in ev­ery game [is important].” 
Mathews and Frilling, her dou­bles partner, are in the final stretch of illustrious college careers. This season, the duo rose to the top dou­bles spot in the nation at one point, and have now settled at No. 5. But Mathews said the rankings are not what matters to her. 
“I don’t really focus on rankings that much, I just go out there and give it my all against whoever is on the other side of the court,” she said. “Obviously I’m going to compete as hard as I can. I’ve been working on being really aggressive and coming to the net and taking balls. Moving forward in the court has been the emphasis I’m working on the last couple of weeks, as well as making sure I’m not hesitating.” 
This aggressiveness has clearly paid off this season, as Frilling and Mathews have led the way for Notre Dame doubles. The Irish have cap­tured the doubles point in 12 of their last 13 contests, and the senior duo have won nine matches against ranked opponents this year. 
Mathews and Frilling have ex­celled in singles as well. Frilling has accumulated 221 combined singles and doubles victories, while Mathews has 191. Mathews is Notre Dame’s highest ranked singles player at No. 54, and Frilling is ranked No. 105. 

Led by junior Ecaterina Vaseni­na — who is currently ranked No. 42 in the nation with a 13-6 dual re­cord — South Florida (15-7) recent­ly defeated No. 45 Boston College. She is also part of South Florida’s No. 1 doubles team, ranked No. 49 nationally. The Irish are undefeated against the Bulls at home at 3-0 in the series, and will look to maintain that streak on Saturday. 
Notre Dame takes the court against South Florida on Saturday at 3:30 pm at the Eck Tennis Center. 


Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
Aoki 
continued from page 20 
and if we win more pitches then we lose then more often than not it will give us the opportunity to have the outcome that we want.” 
Notre Dame’s first two losses to Seton Hall last weekend came in extra innings, and four of the last five defeats were by a total of five runs. Aoki said the demoralizing effects of these close losses are more worrisome than any of Notre Dame’s on-field miscues. 
“A couple of [the losses], espe­cially in those Seton Hall games, we sort of heartbreak types of deals,” Aoki said. “I really think it sort of shook the team’s confidence a little, so if they can get over and work through that I think we’ll be fine.” 
Aoki hopes the returns of sopho­more first baseman Trey Mancini and junior outfielder Charlie Mark-son will spark the team. Mancini missed this week’s games against Michigan State and Western Mich­igan with an injury, while Markson has been sick and hasn’t played since Saturday’s loss at Seton Hall. 
The pitching rotation will also see a bit of a shakeup as freshman right-hander Pat Connaughton is scheduled to start Sunday’s rubber match in the second weekend start of his college career. Senior right-hander Will Hudgins will start Fri­day’s game, and sophomore right-hander Sean Fitzgerald will get the ball for Saturday’s matinee. 
Defense 
continued from page 20 
bowed out against the Blue Devils in the quarterfinals after again putting up just five goals. 
Both those years, the defense played well enough to win when the Irish were eliminated and it was a lack of offense that ul­timately caused Notre Dame’s season to end in defeat. 
Earlier this season, it looked like once again the defense would have to carry the team. With the graduation of key offensive con­tributors in attack Colin Igoe and midfielders Zach Brenneman and David Earl, the Irish needed others to step up. The long-term loss of senior captain and attack Nicholas Beattie to injury in the season opener did nothing to help mat­ters. As a result, the Irish scored just 22 goals through their first four games, including only three in an overtime loss to Penn State. 
But since then, the Irish have picked things up on the offensive end, scoring at least eight goals in each of their last five games and reaching double digits three times. 
While no one would confuse Notre Dame’s recent offense with that of No. 1 Virginia — the Irish still rank No. 51 in scoring offense in the NCAA out of 61 teams — the Irish are putting more goals on the scoreboard, thanks to the emergence of sophomore mid­fielder Jim Marlatt and freshman attack Conor Doyle, both in their first year of game action. Veterans such as senior attack Sean Rogers, sophomore attack Westy Hopkins, junior midfielder Ryan Foley and senior captain and midfielder Max Pfeifer have also elevated their play in late March and early April. 
Notre Dame’s ultimate fate this season will be determined if the current offensive play can be continued, if not exceeded. 
Make no mistake, for Notre Dame to win a national champion­ship, it will take both units to be firing on all cylinders. If senior defenseman and captain Kevin Randall, junior goalie John Kemp and the rest of the Irish defensive unit have an off day during the 
Cincinnati (11-21, 1-8 Big East) comes into the weekend with a five-game losing streak of their own, their third such stretch this season. Although the Bearcats haven’t had much success in conference play so far this season, Aoki said their line­up could still be a challenge for the Irish pitching staff. 
“They’ve got a couple of guys in their lineup that are able to change the game with a swing of the bat; they’ve got a little bit of power in that lineup,” Aoki said. “They’ve been scuffling a little bit, too, so I really think that if we just do a good job of just worrying about ourselves I think we’ll be fine. They’ve had some up and down results but they’re a quality team.” 
Aoki said the key to beating the Bearcats lies in keeping the num­ber of Cincinnati base-runners to a minimum. 
“I’m sure that were going to give up a couple RBIs to some of them over the course of the weekend, but if we do hopefully they’re of the solo-shot variety, not a multiple-run home run,” Aoki said. “I think our pitchers will do a good job of work­ing and making sure that if they do hit a home run or something, that we haven’t helped generate any of their offense with walks or errors.” 
Hudgins will throw out the first pitch against the Bearcats at 5:35 
p.m. Friday at Frank Eck Stadium. Saturday’s game will start at 2:05 p.m., and the series finale will be­gin Sunday at 1:05 p.m. 


Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
NCAA tournament, it won’t matter what the offense does. 
The defense, however, has shown in the past that it can compete on the biggest of stages and there is no reason to expect anything different this year based on their play so far, as they currently rank No. 1 in the NCAA in scoring defense. 
If players such as Rogers, Doyle, Marlatt and Hopkins can produce even more, the Irish could be very dangerous in May. Perhaps more importantly, if secondary scoring from midfielders like senior Eric Keppeler, juniors Pat Cotter and Steve Murphy and freshman Will Corrigan can develop, the Irish may be impossible to beat. 
Sunday starts arguably the toughest stretch of the regular season when the Irish travel to Georgetown, then head to Villanova the following week before hosting Syracuse in the regular season finale April 28. While the Hoyas, Wildcats and Orange aren’t among the upper echelon of NCAA lacrosse this season, they are all quality op­ponents and provide no rest for the next three weeks. It’s an important time for the offense to further mesh as a unit against good competition and hopefully build up confidence heading into the Big East and NCAA tournaments. 
Notre Dame lacrosse has reached unprecedented heights in recent years. The Irish finished the 2009 regular season undefeated for the first time in program history. The national championship loss in 2010 marked the first time the Irish ever played in the season’s final game. And the Irish reached No. 1 in the polls for the first time in the middle of last season. The team will even be featured in its own half-hour documentary at 3 p.m. Saturday afternoon on NBC Sports Network. 
All that is great, but these Irish are looking for more. They’re look­ing for the ultimate prize. 
The defense has won games. It’s time for the offense to propel Notre Dame to a championship. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, April 13, 2012 

suring you, whether it’s riding Georgetown’s roster features “Up until [Wednesday] we 
Gumpf 
had been running on all cylin-
Kemp 

and clearing, whether on the four graduates of Georgetown ders,” Gumpf said. [Recently] 
offensive end or defensive end Preparatory School, while the continued from page 20 our hitting has become consis­
continued from page 20 when they pressure you. Han-Irish feature five former Little tent and our defense has been 
dling that and the speed of play Hoyas, including Kemp. lineup. We have power and really solid although we had 
game and helping us move and still making the appropri-Kemp said he and his former we have speed throughout the a hiccup [against Rutgers] … 
forward toward our goal of ate plays will be the key for us.” high school teammates have ex-lineup.” We need to be pitching, hitting 
winning a national champi-Notre Dame’s only loss came changed several lighthearted During its recent seven-game and playing defense well. If 
onship.” Feb. 26, when the Irish fell 4-3 Facebook messages in anticipa­winning streak, Syracuse’s of-we do those things better than 
Notre Dame (8-1, 3-0 Big to Penn State in overtime.  Cor-tion of this weekend’s matchup. fense has shouldered the load, our competitors, then we will 
East) has played just three rigan said his team has im-“There’s a rivalry,” he said. averaging just over eight runs win every game.” 
road contests but has not lost proved dramatically through-“It’s a lot of fun. Obviously, it’s per game. Senior outfielder Li-Aside from being a pivotal 
away from Arlotta Stadium out the course of the season. good to see guys you played saira Daniels leads the team conference matchup, Satur­
thus far. “I think we’ve been con-with in college moving up in the in batting average, runs, hits, day’s game against Syracuse 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan sistently gaining momentum next level.” slugging percentage and on-is the second annual Strike 
said he expects the Hoyas through the season,” he said. The Irish will face the Hoyas base percentage. Out Cancer game. The event 
(5-5, 1-1) to challenge Notre “We’re confident in who we on Sunday at 1 p.m. in Wash-Irish sophomore pitcher raises money to fight pediatric 
Dame, despite Georgetown’s are and how we can be effec-ington, D.C. Laura Winter leads a pitching leukemia and all proceeds go 
record. tive. We continue to learn about staff that will be tasked with to Memorial Children’s Hospi­
“They’re a very good team, ourselves, and I’m happy with Contact Megan Golden at shutting down Daniels and her tal. 
very talented team and kind where we are.” mgolde01@saintmarys.edu teammates. Gumpf said the “Last year at our Strike Out 
of what we’ve seen the last Irish expect Winter, who leads Cancer day we raised the most 
couple weeks in league play,” the team with 13 wins and a money of any NCAA softball 
he said. “They’re a team with 
2.09 ERA, to be consistent at team in the nation,” Gumpf 
its back against the wall a lit-this point in the regular sea-said. “We want to exceed that 
tle bit. They need a win, and son. [Saturday].” 
we’re kind of a team that can “[Winter] has to be pitching The Irish, who will be wear-
give them life in their season. well at this time of the year,” ing orange as part of the fun-
Anytime you’re in that situ-Gumpf said. “On the mound we draiser, begin their weekend 
ation, you expect to see that need to have great leadership series against Syracuse with a 
team’s best.” and she has done that. She has doubleheader Saturday begin-
Georgetown is looking to proven herself and we expect ning at 12 p.m. at Melissa Cook 
regain its winning record that consistency from her.” Stadium. Game three is sched­
against the Irish after drop-Gumpf said she is also look-uled for Sunday at 11 a.m. 
ping its second straight game ing for the team to reestablish 
— a 13-12 overtime loss — its consistency in all other fac-Contact Mike Monaco at 
Saturday at the hands of No. ets of the game. jmonaco@nd.edu 
20 St. John’s. 
The Big East matchup will feature a talented George­town offense going against a dominant Irish defense. The Hoyas score an average of 
9.4 goals per game, while the Irish defense allows just 5.4 goals per game. 
Georgetown junior attack Brian Casey leads the team with 27 points, having re­corded 14 goals and 13 as­sists this season. 
Corrigan said the Irish must overcome pressure from the Hoyas in order to escape with a victory. 
“They put pressure on you in a number of ways,” he said. “They are consistently pres-
leads the Huskies with 37 goals 
Halfpenny 
and eight assists while also corralling 24 draw controls. continued from page 20 Lapham became Connecticut’s all-time leading scorer in its the table but at the same time, game against Columbia. Senior we know that Allie is ready to attacker Kiersten Tupper pro-go,” Halfpenny said. vides a solid second option for the 
The Irish also added a familiar Huskies with her 23 goals and 15 face to Notre Dame women’s bas-assists. ketball fans — graduate student “[Lapham] is a very shifty, lefty Brittany Mallory. Mallory, a high attacker that certainly is their school All-American midfielder, go-to player,” Halfpenny said. joined the team as a defender “[Tupper] certainly has the abil­this week after the Irish fell in ity to dodge and play make with the national championship game her assisting ability. We going to to Baylor. obviously have to limit them and 
“Collectively, we were a very contain them.” excited unit to add someone Halfpenny said Connecticut’s with championship caliber ex-style of play could also cause perience and character to our problems for the Irish. team,” Halfpenny said. “Ulti-“They are very athletic, mainly mately, Brittany decided to make a [one-on-one] driving team and, the commitment with really no to be honest, we’ve struggled at promises of anything.” time with teams that have hard, 
Halfpenny said Mallory will long [one-on-one] drives because need to learn the new schemes it’s not exactly what we look like,” and systems but had a good week Halfpenny said. “They’ve been of practice. forcing a number of caused turn­
“It’s like watching her get back overs against great teams and on the bike,” Halfpenny said. that’s going to be something that “Her hands are still there [along we’re focused on.” with] her quickness, her quick Notre Dame and Connecticut release, her defense is still there. square off Saturday at 11 a.m. in She’s certainly a threat and we’re Storrs, Conn. going to work her in when she’s ready.” Contact Matthew DeFranks at 
Senior attacker M.E. Lapham mdefrank@nd.edu 



Friday, April 13, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUgENIA LAST 




CLAMMY HANDSHAKE SCOTT MICHAEL and MATT MOMONT JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARgIRION 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20
Friday, April 13, 2012 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish look to extend streak against Hoyas 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a dominant win over Providence, the No. 6 Irish are looking to extend their win­ning streak to eight as they travel to conference rival Georgetown. 
Notre Dame’s defense show­cased its talent against the Fri­ars on Saturday, when it lim­ited Providence to just one goal behind junior goalkeeper John Kemp’s seven saves. 
Kemp said the defense will continue to stick to the game plan and improve on last week­end’s performance. 
“First and foremost, [we need to execute] everything we work on in practice — communica­tion, being clear with sliding and limiting their opportunities,” Kemp said. “We go into all of our games thinking the other team can beat us. It’s just another 
see KEMP/page 18 

Georgetown bound 

Offense must power team to playoff success 
Anyone who follows sports has heard the phrase, “Offense wins games, but defense wins champion­ships.” 
For the past two seasons, however, it’s been the opposite for Irish lacrosse. 
In 2010, then-fifth year goalie Scott Rodg­ers carried Notre Dame all the way to the national championship game, before the Irish lost a heartbreaker 6-5 to Duke in overtime. Last season, it was again strong defense and goaltending that sparked Notre Dame to a 10-2 regular season record before the Irish similarly 
see DEFENSE/page 17 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Halfpenny urges focus for Connecticut game 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor 
For Irish coach Christine Halfpenny and No. 7 Notre Dame, this week felt like Febru­ary all over again — and not just because of the weather. 
Following their first home defeat of the season, Halfpenny said the Irish (9-2, 3-2 Big East) reverted to a camp-like week of practice to prepare for a road test against Connecticut (7-4, 0-3) this Saturday. 
“We’re at the point in the season right now where it’s im­perative that we stay focused on our daily improvement and really stay focused on our team goals,” Halfpenny said. “We got back to the drawing board this week and it was almost like a mini-preseason again so that we 
can prepare for this final push 
through this month of April.” 
Notre Dame split a pair of 
games last weekend, losing to 
No. 2 Syracuse 16-10 before re­
bounding to top Villanova 18-5. 
In the win over the Wildcats, 
freshman goalkeeper Allie Mur­
ray garnered her first collegiate 
start, replacing junior goalkeep­
er Ellie Hilling, who missed the 
game with an illness. Murray 
made nine saves and allowed 
five goals to earn the victory. 
Halfpenny said, despite Mur­
ray’s strong performance, Hill­
ing will probably start Saturday, 
although she said the decision 
has not been made yet. 
“Ellie’s been our starter all 
season and we feel really con­
fident about what she brings to 
see HALFPENNY/page 18 
BASEBALL 

Squad to host Cincinnati in series 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 

The Irish will attempt to halt a five-game losing streak when they host a three-game confer­ence series against Cincinnati this weekend. 
Irish coach Mik Aoki said his team may be feeling the pressure to break out of the slump. 
“I think they lack a little bit of the confidence that they had ear­ly on, and so anything that goes a little bit against us brings back the insecurity,” Aoki said. “The guys are a little frustrated.” 
Aoki said he’s been telling the Irish (17-15, 4-5 Big East) to play the games one pitch at a time. 
“All I’ve been telling them is that let’s try not to focus on what the outcome is,” Aoki said. “Let’s just focus on trying to be as com­petitive as we can on every single pitch and try to win the pitch, 
see AOKI/page 17 

ND SOFTBALL 

Irish begin 11-game homestand against rival Syracuse 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
After seeing its nine-game winning streak snapped in a 7-6 extra-inning loss to Rut­gers on Wednesday, Notre Dame looks to get back on track when it hosts Syracuse on Saturday at Melissa Cook Stadium to kick off an 11-game homestand. 
The Irish (20-11, 4-1 Big East) didn’t play a home game un­til the 22nd game of the sea­son, when the squad began its winning streak. After seven wins at home, Notre Dame won two games on the road before Wednesday’s loss. Now, coach Deanna Gumpf said she is hop­ing the Irish can get back to their winning ways. 
“It’s about how we play and [Wednesday] we failed to do the little things really well and it hurt us,” Gumpf said. “We gave up five runs in one inning, we had two errors, some walks, and we gave up some big hits. We can’t do those things and ex­pect to win and be a champion­ship team. We need to go back to what worked when we played really well, which was contain­ing hitters and playing good championship softball.” 
Syracuse (27-9, 5-1) stands in Notre Dame’s way. The Orange have also been surging lately, winning seven in a row and 17 of their last 18 games. 
“[Syracuse] is going to play well against us,” Gumpf said. “All Big East teams seem to play well against us, but the thing is we need to focus on us. We need to concentrate on minimizing our mistakes and if we do that we will be just fine.” 
Gumpf said the Irish are ex­pecting to face Syracuse senior pitcher Jenna Caira, who is 17-3 with a 1.86 ERA on the season. Nonetheless, Gumpf said she expects the offense to have suc­cess against Caira. 
“I think we match up well with them,” Gumpf said. “They have a good pitcher (Caira) but we have done a good job against her in the past. But we don’t need to focus on Syracuse … I think we have a really strong 
see GUMPF/page 18 





