
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Mendoza earns No. 1 ranking once again 
Bloomberg Businessweek names College of Business top undergraduate program for third consecutive year 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
Move over, Notre Dame foot­ball. There’s a new Fighting Irish dynasty in town. 
For the third consecutive year, Notre Dame’s Mendoza College of Business was named the top undergraduate business school in the country by Bloom­berg Businessweek magazine. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins commended the Col­lege for its focus on academic excellence and social responsi­bility. 
“To achieve the No. 1 ranking even once is outstanding, but three straight years is truly re­markable,” he said. “The high academic standards of our fac­ulty and students in combina­tion with our particular focus on using business to impact the greater good is what makes Mendoza stand out.” 
Roger Huang, interim dean of Mendoza, said he attributes the school’s continued excellence to the unique “Notre Dame spirit.” 
“I think [the Notre Dame spirit] is the ‘secret sauce’ we have here,” he said. “It’s the spirit that faculty has for help­ing students, the spirit of ca­reer services and student ser­vices at the University level and 

see MENDOZA/page 5 




Students to travel to Uganda to promote youth sports 

By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
Twelve Notre Dame students will travel to Uganda for two weeks in May to share their athletic passion and talents with the country’s youth. 
Kevin Dugan, manager of youth and community programs for the athletic department, said the trip, co-sponsored by the Institute for Educational Initiatives and the athletic de­partment, is focused both on educational research and pro­motion of youth athletics. 
“The purpose of the whole ef­fort is to work with the Catholic Church and the [Ugandan] Min­istry of Education and Sports to share ideas on how sport can be used as a platform for positive social impact,” Dugan said. 
Students will visit the towns of Fort Portal, Masaka, Jinja and Kampala to promote physi­cal education and youth sports ministry programs, run a sports camp and discuss poten­tial research of sports’ impact on children, Dugan said. 
The effort comes in the wake of advocacy organization In­visible Children’s “Kony 2012” campaign. The movement calls for the arrest of Joseph Kony, the head of a Ugandan rebel group who ruthlessly recruits child soldiers. 
The film that accompanies the campaign, which went vi­ral this month, received inter­national backlash from critics who publicly claimed the video oversimplifies a complex issue. 

see UGANDA/page 5 

Event promotes dialogue of inclusion 
By ANNA BOARINI 

News Writer  
Howard  Hall  sponsored  
the  Tunnel  of  Love  event  
Wednesday to promote dis­ 
cussion about diversity and  
inclusion in light of the al­ 
leged hate crimes against  
two black student organiza­ 
tions that occurred before  
spring break.  
Assistant  rector  Bridget  
Nugent  said  Howard  Hall  
wanted to create a way to  
promote a different dialogue  
about diversity on campus.  Photo Courtesy of Bridget Nugent  

 Students participate in Howard Hall’s Tunnel of Love event  
see HOWARD/page 5  Wednesday to promote campus diversity and inclusion.  



Lecture to discuss autism awareness 
By LEILA GREEN 
News Writer 
Alison Singer, founder and president of the Autism Sci­ence Foundation, will give a lecture at the third annual Autism Conference tonight on current scientific research regarding autism. 
Junior Brooke Conti, presi­dent of the Special Friends Club, which co-sponsors the event, said she hopes this event will help dispel com­mon myths about autism. 
“It is not a very well char­acterized disorder,” she said. “Hearing a professional would be helpful to clarify any misconceptions.” 
Conti said Singer will pres­ent current developments within the scientific research community, as well as the importance of autism aware­ness. She said Singer will also discuss the relationship 

see AUTISM/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER HANDS volunteers abroad page 3 u “Wrecking Ball” album review page 12 u Viewpoint page 10 u Football begins spring practice page 24 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT MUSICAL ARTIST WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE PERFORM AT LEGENDS? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Faith Mayfield  Nicole McMillan  Peter Teneriello  Will Holmes  Luis Ibarra  Ben Rollin  
freshman Farley  sophomore Farley  senior Sorin  sophomore Duncan  junior Knott  senior Sorin  
“Coldplay because I’m  “Lady Antebellum  “The Jimi Hendrix  “The Killers are one of my  “Mike Snow would be an  “Mastadon because ND  
obsessed with their song ‘Paradise.’”  because they have a wide variety of  Experience. Boom.”  favorite bands. Or Muse or Modest Mouse  awesome small scale, private show.”  needs more metal.”  
music.”  would be good.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Honolulu judge puts man in chokehold for ruckus 
HONOLULU — It got per­sonal for a judge in Hono­lulu when he put a man in a chokehold for jumping onto his bench and breaking a flagpole bearing the state flag, authorities said. 
District Judge Lono Lee knocked down Steven Mi­chael Hauge and restrained him Monday after the man caused a ruckus in Lee’s courtroom, Department of Public Safety spokeswoman Toni Schwartz told the Ho­nolulu Star-Advertiser 
Hauge was arrested and charged with disorderly conduct, obstruction of gov­ernment operations and fourth-degree criminal property damage. Tsuha said Hauge allegedly broke the flag’s staff while swing­ing it. 
Hauge couldn’t be reached for comment Wednesday at Oahu Community Correc­tional Center, where he was being held on $1,500 bail. 
New Zealong runs out of unique spread 
WELLINGTON, New Zea­land — It’s a sticky black sandwich spread that much of New Zealand adores, though detractors liken it to axle grease. And when it runs out, it’s Marmaged­don. 
The manufacturer of Marmite says its supplies of the yeast-extract prod­uct ran out this week, four months after earthquakes forced it to close the only factory that made New Zea­land’s version. 
Some are calling the cri­sis “Marmageddon.” Others are auctioning their sup­plies of Marmite online. Even the country’s leader sounds concerned. 
“I’m going to have to go thin I’m afraid. I have a very small amount in my of­fice and once that runs out I’m obviously aware that supplies are very short,” Prime Minister John Key told television station TV3 on Tuesday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
MEChA will sponsor a discussion on cultural iden­tity and dorm life entitled “Home Under the Dome? - Race Relations in Housing” today from 6 to 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Alison Singer, Founder and President of the Autism Science Foundation, will be speaking at the Third Annu­al Autism Conference, “Au­tism, Science, and Public Policy,” today at 6:30 p.m. in Room 105 of Jordan Hall. 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be screen­ing the film titled “OSS 
117: Cairo, Nest of Spies”, starring Jean Dujardin and directed by Michel Ha­zanavicius,  Academy Award Winners for their film “The Artist,” today at 7 p.m. in the Browning Cinema. Tick­ets are $3 for students. 
The Hub and the CUSE will sponser a symposium by 10 student-chosen pro­fessors entitled “ND Thinks Big - Ten Speakers, Ten Minutes, Ten Big Ideas.” Each speaker will discuss their current research. The event will take place today at 7 p.m. in the Jordan Au­ditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
The Not-So-Royal Shake­speare Company will be performing “Titus Androni­cus” today and Friday at 
7:30 p.m. in the Mainstage Auditorium of Washington Hall. Tickets are $2 for stu­dents and are available at the door. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Tori Roeck Dan Brombach Abi Hoverman 

Graphics 
Elisa De Castro 

Photo 
Mackenzie Sain 


Sports 

Matthew Robison Laura Coletti Sam Gans 

Scene 

Alexandra Kilpatrick 

Viewpoint 


LOCAL WEATHER 
HIGH 71 LOW 62 
HIGH 71 LOW 54 
HIGH 67 LOW 48 
HIGH 61 LOW 46 
HIGH 68 LOW 47 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
Caroline Lang 











CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 



Organization volunteers abroad 

By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
News Writer 
HANDS, a non-profit organi­zation founded by three Notre Dame alumni from different Cen­tral American countries, seeks to reduce poverty levels in Central America by partnering with local organizations and coordinating volunteer programs there, co-founder Mariana Diaz said. 
Diaz, a 2008 Notre Dame alum­na, said the organization’s diverse array of volunteer opportunities sets it apart from other non-prof­its. 
“HANDS is a unique approach to poverty and underdevelop­ment as our mantra is based on volunteerism,” Diaz said. “We be­lieve that volunteering provides the perfect opportunity to raise awareness of realities operative in developing countries, a valuable experience to experience another culture and more important, the opportunity to make a difference in other people’s lives.” 

According to the HANDS web­site, volunteers work in medical clinics, provide business consult­ing to agricultural entrepreneurs, teach English in local schools, mentor young children living in garbage dumps and more. 
Since its foundation in 2009, HANDS has mobilized over 200 local and international volunteers, formed partnerships with over 20 organizations and supported over 15 projects, according to the orga­nization’s website. 
“We believe that we can make a difference and help the develop­ment of these countries through volunteerism,” Diaz said. 
HANDS has also opened offices in Guatemala, El Salvador and the United States to provide an effi­cient volunteer placement service and offer a wider variety of volun­teer programs, Diaz said. 
“We hope to expand HANDS to other Central American countries and send over 25 international volunteers per year,” she said. 
HANDS is offering one- to 10­week service programs in Guate­mala this summer from May 30th to August 5th, which are open to Notre Dame students, Diaz said. 

“Getting involved with HANDS presents the perfect opportunity for [students] to gain valuable ex­perience in the non-profit indus­try and learn more about service,” she said. 
According to the HANDS web­site, some programs are educa­tion-based, such as Safe Passage and Esperanza Juvenil, a housing project called Constru Casa and a psychology program called Fun­dación Margarita Tejada. 
Diaz said HANDS will hold two information sessions for students interested in participating in the summer programs. One will take place Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in 201 O’Shaughnessy Hall and the other will be held Monday, April 2 in 201 DeBartolo Hall. The application deadline is April 23. 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 




Group discusses ordinance, service day 
By NICOLE MICHELS said.  News Writer Ferlic said he anticipates fa­
cilitating enforcement of the 
Members of the South Bend ordinance by coming up with community and Notre Dame creative solutions to increase student government discussed awareness in the community of compliance issues with a 2007 its ramifications. housing ordinance and the up-“It’s been difficult for code to coming CommUniversity Day at enforce the ordinance,” he said. Wednesday’s Campus/Commu-“We need to revisit it in a way nity Advisory Coalition (CCAC) that makes it enforceable and meeting. positive for both students and 
Cathy Toppel, director of community members. Maybe code enforcement for the City of part of that is a database, find-South Bend, said the city is hav-ing a way to actually produce ing trouble that database en forcing and to create a housing an efficient [en­
ordinance forcement] pro-prohibiting cess.” more than “This has been an Committee two unre-initiative of the student members also lated people body that has grown in discussed the to live in the recent years, and we’re upcoming Com-same house. especially excited about mUniversity She said it Day, an initia­
the theme this year:  
becomes a tive to connect 
deepening our roots 
resource is-South Bend’s 
[in the community].” 
sue when universities to more people the surround-live in an Pat McCormick ing community area than student body president in a day of ser­
is officially permitted. 
“The prob­lem [in en­forcing the ordinance] comes in the follow up and producing enough in­formation to go to court with,” Toppel said. 
Mark Kramer of Kramer Properties said the prior­ity should be increasing the re­sources at students’ disposal so they fully understand the rental commitment they are about to agree to. 
“Somehow, [we need to] edu­cate them to what that means [to live off-campus],” Kramer said. “Students may go and rent the houses out regardless be­cause there’s a misunderstand­ing or because they don’t un­derstand what [the ordinance] really means. 
Pat McCormick, student body president, said Notre Dame’s student government works on several initiatives throughout the year to equip students for off-campus living. 
“It seems like the best way that we can serve as a re­source from the student gov­ernment standpoint is to fa­cilitate communication and to increase awareness in regards to the current codes as they exist,” McCormick said. 
Ann Carol Nash, assistant city attorney, said students should be educated on the or­dinance’s terms early on in their house search. 
“I’d like to suggest that they tell incoming students to as­sume that the property is sin­gle family, and to find out what ‘single family’ means, and to have the owner prove that the house is grandfathered,” Nash said. “Assume it’s only a two-people residence until the landlord tells you otherwise.” 
Gavin Ferlic, a member of the City of South Bend Com­mon Council and chairperson elect of the CCAC, said the main goal is to make sure the city ordinances promote good experiences for students and neighborhood residents alike. 
“In regards to the housing issue, the priorities are mak­ing sure that what ordinances we have are enforceable, and making sure that they’re posi­tive for both neighborhood residents and students,” Ferlic vice.  
McCormick 
said CommU­
niversity Day, 
planned for March 31, has been the product of a coordinated effort between South Bend’s residents and its universities to deepen commu­nity bonds. 
“This has been an initiative of the student body that has grown in recent years, and we’re espe­cially excited about the theme this year: deepening our roots [in the community],” McCor­mick said.  “We hope that this will emphasize the shared belief among student government and the student body more generally that we all have a shared stake in the South Bend community.” 
Despite concerns about the lack of compliance with the housing ordinance, members were pleased with the recent positive trajectory of commu­nity relations.  
Mike Carrington of the Alco­holic Beverage Board said he credits cooperation within the community for these successes. 
“I have been really pleased, and I wanted to acknowledge the really good progress,” Carrington said.  “I think a really important piece of this when we hear from students has to do with student safety … the combination of ev­eryone working together, I think has caused a dramatic improve­ment in all aspects of it.” 
Brett Rocheleau, student body vice president and president-elect, said he agrees with other members’ positive reflections on community relations. 
“The CCAC meeting is our way to connect to community leaders,” Rocheleau said.  “These meetings have been able to keep great re­lations between South Bend and Notre Dame … in regards to to­day’s meeting it was great to hear what the community has to say, especially that no one had any major complaints.” 
Ferlic said the CCAC is focused on improving the quality of life for South Bend’s residents. 
“It’s very important to me to make sure that students have a positive experience here in South Bend and to make them more willing to reside here in the future,” Ferlic said. 

Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 


SENATE 


Group discusses bike shop, discrimination 
By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
Student Senate discussed both the potential reopening of the Notre Dame Bike Shop and the March 5 town hall meeting that addressed dis­crimination at its Wednesday meeting. 
John Sanders, residence life director for student gov­ernment, said Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) pro­vided free bicycle repair ser­vices at the shop for at least 10 years. He said five to sev­en mechanics fixed approxi­mately 331 bikes each year. 
“They didn’t advertise be­cause they were a little bit afraid that if they advertised, they wouldn’t be able to meet the demand,” he said. “The biggest problem that we’re facing is primarily space.” 
Another obstacle to re­opening the shop is lack of funding, Sanders said. 
“While NDSP is willing to continue salvaging bikes for parts and reusing them and collecting bikes for people, they aren’t willing to fund the operation in the way that they were,” he said. “So in order to do that, we’re prob­ably going to have to come up with some sort of collabora­tive fund with other depart­ments on campus in order to resurrect the bike shop.” 
Sanders said the bike shop could potentially reopen in a currently flooded rest­room in Stepan Center. Stu­dent body vice president and president-elect Brett Roche­leau said the shop previously existed in the garages of the Telecommunications Build­ing. 
Student body president Pat McCormick said student gov­ernment plans to introduce a concurrent resolution be­tween Campus Life Council and Senate to express sup­port for reopening the bike shop. 
Senate also discussed re­actions to the March 5 town hall meeting that addressed recent acts of discriminatory harassment. 
Freshman class president Tim Scanlan said some stu­dents he spoke with were shocked that many of the sto­ries of discrimination shared at the town hall meeting in­volved rectors and NDSP of­ficers. In one case, a student complained of a discrimina­tory comment from an offi­cer. Another student said her rector failed to discipline a roommate for prejudiced be­havior. 
“They said one of the most surprising things was how many of the stories involved authority,” Scanlan said. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
SGA 



Association prepares for upcoming change 
By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Gov­ernment Association (SGA) discussed last week’s elec­tion and prepared for the up­coming student government turnover, which will take place April 1. 
SGA chief of staff Emily Skirtich said she was pleased with this year’s election turnout. 
‘There was a lot of partici­pation,” she said. “Elections went really [well] and just the physical presence was good.” 
Skirtich said 86 percent of the student body voted in the elections for Student Activi­ties Board, Student Diversity Board and the Residence Hall Association. 
The election for the class of 2015 presidents resulted in a tie, and the tiebreaker vote will take place next week. Campaigning is allowed to continue until the election. 
Skirtich said students should “continue to encour­age voting” in next week’s runoff election. 
SGA also discussed the as­sociation’s new constitution. Student body vice president Jacqualyn Zupancic said the constitution should get ap­proved next week. 
The constitution is 12 pag­es long, and all members of SGA are instructed to read it to propose changes before next week. 
Zupancic said this final overview is crucial. 
“It’s important that we get this constitution approved and accurate because we have a new structure,” she said. 
SGA also proposed holding an event to introduce the Col­lege’s new leaders, includ­ing Michael Boehm, the new chief information officer. 
SGA technology commis­sioner Maureen Parsons will coordinate the event, which will take place later in the semester. 
Parsons said the event would be a good forum to “explain the timeline of ini­tiatives that students are in­terested in.” 
Student body president Ni­cole Gans said she expects the event to be successful. 
‘There is a lot of potential,” Gans said. “This is great for students to get their voices out there and being able to understand the changes.” 
Next week will be the cur­rent members’ last meeting and they will turnover their duties to the new students in their positions. 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 



Uganda 
continued from page 1 
Dugan said Notre Dame’s trip will expose students to a dif­ferent side of Uganda than that portrayed in “Kony 2012.” 
“I think our students will be really encouraged by the tal­ents and gifts of the Ugandan youth,” he said. “The course will be about celebrating the incredible human potential of the country.” 
The trip will count as an Ed­ucation, Schooling and Society course for one credit, Dugan said. He said participants will also take two separate one-credit courses beforehand to prepare them for their experi­ences in Uganda. 
Dugan said the trip coor­dinators consulted with the Ministry of Education and Sports, the National Council of Sports and the Uganda Catho­lic Secretariat to discuss how the Notre Dame group could best collaborate with them. 
“We don’t want this to be a neo-colonial effort and have been very thoughtful about en­gaging people in Uganda about how we can complement what they are already doing on the ground there to improve physi­cal education in schools and providing more outlets for per­sonal and moral development through sport,” Dugan said. 
Dugan said the group will work with the Uganda Catho­lic Secretariat to develop the sports component of the Sec­retariat’s youth ministry pro­grams. 
“The student group, which includes several student-ath­letes, will be running a Notre Dame sports camp in the vil­lage [of Masaka] to comple­ment the Church’s athletic ministry,” he said. 
Dugan said professor Clark Power of Notre Dame’s Insti-tute for Educational Initia­tives, who also coordinated the trip will share his “Play Like a Champion Today” education­al series that uses sports to promote moral development. He said Power had the Notre Dame player handbook adapt­ed for young Ugandan athletes. 

“Power will also be spending time running a two-day work­shop with the education facul­ty at Uganda Martyrs Univer­sity, where he is working on a joint research project to study the impact of sport on child de­velopment,” Dugan said. 
The Catholic Church and the Ministry of Education and Sports welcomed the group’s initiative, Dugan said. 
“The Church sees sport as a way to engage young people in healthy activities,” he said. “The government sees it as a form of human and commu­nity development that will also lead to national and economic development.” 
Dugan said he wants the group to approach their work humbly. 
“If we walk humbly and serve passionately, then our presence can help support the work of the government and the Church to use sport as a form of growth and develop­ment for children in Uganda,” he said. 
Dugan said he hoped the trip to Uganda would become an annual effort. 
“[The Congregation of] Holy Cross and Notre Dame have been committed to Uganda for years,” he said. “Let’s hope that this is just the beginning for ND Athletics and the In­stitute for Educational Initia­tives.” 

Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 




Howard 
continued from page 1 
“Notre Dame is more diverse than some appreciate and we wanted to see all the dif­ferent forms of diversity we have on campus,” she said, “We wanted to show not just the obvious differences but also the different world­views and perspectives.” 
To show these different perspectives, students cov­ered the Howard Hall tunnel in pictures and images rep­resenting diversity on cam­pus. 
Nugent asked campus groups such as the Asian American Association, the Black Student Association and CORE council to submit artwork and photos as a way to showcase the differences the campus holds. 
“People have different ideas of what diversity is,” she said. “Some people think that Notre Dame is not a very diverse campus. The pictures can help show how diverse and vibrant campus really is.” 
Nugent said some of the photos came from the Real Me Project, a photo proj­ect celebrating diversity on campus. 
“We asked groups to send pictures they thought would symbolize the different types of diversity on cam­pus,” she said. 
Nugent said 750 students signed a banner that read, “We are fighting for inclu­sion” and 600 participants 


Autism 
continued from page 1 
between autism advocacy and science. 
The Autism Science Foun­dation, which Singer found­ed in 2009, provides funding to scientists conducting re­search to discover the causes of autism and develop better treatments, according to the organization’s website. 
Singer, a mother of an au­tistic child, has appeared on Oprah, NBC Nightly News, CNN and Good Morning received a bandana to com­memorate the event. 


Nugent said signing the banner showed solidarity with diverse groups on cam­pus and promoted a spirit of inclusion. 
“We have minorities on campus that have beautiful things they contribute and we want there to be a sense of inclusion,” she said. 
Nugent said after the event the banner will be used as a backdrop for the opening night of Race Monologues and then will be donated to a multicultural campus group. 
America to advocate for re­search of the disorder, ac­cording to the Autism Sci­ence Foundation website. 
Conti said part of the Spe­cial Friends Club’s mission is to educate campus about au­tism research and support. 
Students involved in the Special Friends club work with people with autism from the South Bend and surrounding communities and form close bonds with them, Conti said. 
Throughout the year, Conti said students spend time so­cializing, doing homework or assisting with therapy with 
“We really want the ban­ner to be a way to give back to the community,” she said. 
Nugent said the event was a success and hopes the cre­ativity of the event can help promote discourse. 
“We need the recognition that we can rely on discourse to engage that tension and work towards finding a so­lution,” she said. “The more we rely on discourse, then we can move toward reso­lution and ultimately inclu­sion.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
the people they are paired with once a week. 
Conti said the time stu­dents put into helping their “special friends” makes a big difference in their lives. 
“[Autism is] a social dis­order,” she said. “The more that you interact with a per­son really helps them. Even if they’re different, they’re not that different.” 
The conference will take place Thursday in Jordan Hall of Science room 105 at 7 p.m. 

Contact Leila Green at lgreen2@nd.edu 


Mendoza 
continued from page 1 
ways they go out of their way to help students, the spirit of Men­doza students to work hard and the spirit of alumni and friends of Notre Dame for the College.” 
These intangible qualities of the College’s undergradu­ate business program do not ethics, corporate social respon­sibility, sustainability and so­cial entrepreneurship,” he said. “We’ve been teaching that for­ever as part of our mission and our views of our position here.” 
Although the College ap­preciates being recognized for its excellence, Huang said maintaining the No. 1 rank­ing comes second to doing the “right thing.” 
“We’ll keep doing whatever 
directly fac­tor into Busi­nessweek ’s ranking sys­tem, which includes sur­veys of se­nior business majors and employers, median start­ing salaries for graduates, the number of alumni sent to top MBA pro­grams from each school 
“Our mission statement is to educate students to be good academically, prepare them for professions and hold them accountable for what they do.” 
Roger Huang interim dean Mendoza College of Business 
it is that we believe is the right thing to do for our students, the College and the Univer­sity, even if it has a negative impact on our 
ranking,”  he  
said.  
With  in­ 
creased  na­ 
tional  at­ 
tention  on  

Mendoza ’s undergradu­
and a calculation of academic quality. 
Of the 142 undergraduate business programs included in Businessweek’s 2012 rankings, Mendoza ranked No. 1 based on student surveys and No. 2 ac­cording to recruiter surveys. 
Huang said he believes that “secret sauce,” combined with the mission statements of both Mendoza and Notre Dame, pro­
vides the real key to the suc­cess of the un­dergraduate business pro­gram. 
“Our mis­sion statement is to educate students to be good aca­dem ica l ly, prepare them 
for professions and hold them accountable for what they do,” Huang said. “Since the school was founded, we have been teaching students not only what they need to know how to do but also how to go about doing that in the right way.” 
This consistency in the Col­lege’s teaching mission also ap­plies to its emphasis on promot­ing ethical business practices among its students, Huang said. 
“The focus on how to do [busi­ness] in the right way comes through in courses in business ate business program comes increased student interest and enrollment, but Huang said the College is equipped to handle short-term spikes in those ar­eas. 
“In the short run, I think we’ll be able to accommodate the in­creased enrollment demands set by the ranking,” he said. “But if enrollment increases unabated, we might need to ad­dress more permanent 
long -ter m
“Being No. 1 is a 
solutions by 
responsibility because 
working to-
we are in the limelight.” 
gether with 
the University Roger Huang as a whole.” interim dean At the same 
time, national 
Mendoza College of Business 
recognition 
of Mendoza’s 
standard of excellence also places a sense of responsibility on the College, Huang said. 
“Being No. 1 is a responsibil­ity because we are in the lime­light,” he said. “It’s an oppor­tunity to show the world who we are and what we stand for, which is that you can be good professionally and academical­ly while being true to your val­ues and traditions at the same time.” 

Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 





Media-savvy lawyer humanizes clients 

Associated Press 
SEATTLE — A day before the public learned the name of the soldier accused of methodically slaughtering 16 civilians in Af­ghanistan, his lawyer called a news conference and sketched a different portrait of Robert Bales: that of a loving father and devoted husband who had been traumatized by a comrade’s in­jury and sent into combat one too many times. 
The move was classic John Henry Browne. The charming, sometimes brash, media-savvy defense attorney had yet to even meet his client and was already attempting to shape public per­ceptions. 
“His best work is not in a court of law but really in a court of public opinion. He’s a master at humanizing his client, and that’s an important role,” said Dan Satterberg, chief prosecu­tor in Seattle’s King County, where Browne is based. “He is accessible and quotable. And he loves to talk to the media. He doesn’t waste any time get­ting a positive portrayal of his client.” 
Six-foot-six and seven times married, with a penchant for long, white scarves, Browne cuts a flamboyant figure in Seattle legal circles and has represented some notori­ous criminals, including se­rial killer Ted Bundy and the teenage Barefoot Bandit. 
Browne, 65, has obtained remarkable results for some of his clients, but his aggres­sive courtroom style can also rub prosecutors and judges the wrong way. In a drug case last summer, a mistrial was declared after he ques­tioned the judge’s compe­tence in open court and a ju­ror was overheard saying he wanted to punch the lawyer in the nose. 
His new client, Staff Sgt. Robert Bales, a 38-year-old Army sniper from Washing­ton state, could be charged as early as this week in the March 11 shooting rampage, a crime that has strained re­lations between the U.S. and Afghanistan and threatened to alter the course of the war. 
Browne met with Bales for the first time Monday, confer­ring with him behind bars at Fort Leavenworth, Kan. While any trial is months away, some wonder whether the lawyer’s sometimes abrasive manner will sit well with the more for­mal culture of a military court, where the jury consists entirely of soldiers. 
By his own count, Browne has appeared in military court only three times in a career of more than four decades. He never served in the military, and he protested against the Vietnam War. He initially re­ceived a student deferment and later was deemed unfit to serve because of his height, he said Wednesday. 
“He pushes prosecutors and judges, and his success is par­tially due to that,” said John Wolfe, a lawyer who worked for Browne in the 1970s. “His zealousness can cause people to make mistakes.” But he add­ed: “I fully expect he’s going to adapt his style to the decorum required in a military trial.” 
Allen Ressler, a Seattle attor­ney who went to American Uni­versity Law School with Browne and was his law partner years ago, put it this way: “He’s not always the most pleasant hu­man being in the world, but he knows what he needs to do to get results.” 
Browne has been known to turn around in court and roll his eyes if he dislikes what he is hearing from the judge. In the drug case that ended in a mistrial, he simply refused to continue participating be­cause he disagreed with sev­eral rulings. He sat down and did the same thing in a 1979 murder case. 
“He makes harsh statements sometimes, statements some people feel might be disre­spectful,” Wolfe said. “If he thinks a judge is out of line, he’ll say, ‘You’re out of line.’ He is passionate about his defense work, and when he thinks it’s appropriate, he’ll call a spade a spade.” 
Several colleagues say that he clearly enjoys the public­ity from big cases but that his real motivation lies deeper, in a belief in his clients and their right to a fair trial. 
“John has always had high-profile cases because he’s re­ally good,” said Anne Brem­ner, a Seattle lawyer who was Browne’s fifth wife. “But often in high-profile cases, they can be a platform for im­portant discussions on broad issues. Being part of that public discussion and poten­tial institutional changes is important to him.” 


Scientists find heart attack lead 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Too of­ten, people pass a cardiac checkup only to collapse with a heart attack days later. Now scientists have found a clue that one day may help doctors determine if a heart attack is immi­nent, in hopes of preventing it. 
Most heart attacks hap­pen when fatty deposits in an artery burst open, and a blood clot then forms to seal the break. If the clot is too big, it blocks off blood flow. 
The problem: Today’s best tests can’t predict when that’s about to happen. 
“We don’t have a way to get at whether an artery’s going to crack, the precur­sor to a heart attack,” said Dr. Eric Topol, director of California’s Scripps Trans­lational Science Institute. 
Wednesday, Scripps re­searchers reported a new lead — by searching peo­ple’s blood for cells that ap­pear to flake off the lining of a severely diseased ar­tery. 
Topol’s team measured high levels of those cells, deformed ones, floating in the blood of 50 people who’d just had a heart attack. The research is reported in the journal Science Transla­tional Medicine. 
Next, Topol said his team soon will begin needed studies to learn how early those cells might appear before a heart attack, and if spotting them could allow use of clot-preventing drugs to ward off damage. Some San Diego emergency rooms will study an experimental blood test with chest-pain sufferers whose standard exams found no evidence of a heart attack, he said. 
Don’t expect a test to pre­dict heart attacks any time soon — a lot more research is needed, caution heart specialists not involved with the study. But they’re intrigued. 
“This study is pretty ex­citing,” said Dr. Douglas Zipes of Indiana University and past president of the American College of Cardi­ology. It suggests those cells are harmed “not just in the minutes prior” to a heart at­tack, he said, “but probably hours, maybe even days” earlier. 
“It’s a neat, provocative first step,” added Dr. Wil­liam C. Little, cardiology chief at Wake Forest Bap­tist Medical Center. “But it is not a biomarker ready for prime time.” 
About 935,000 people in the U.S. have a heart at­tack every year, according to government figures. Doc­tors can tell who’s at risk: People with high blood pres­sure and cholesterol, who smoke, have diabetes, are overweight or sedentary. 
But there’s no way to tell when a heart attack is im­minent. Tests can spot that an artery is narrowing, or if a heart attack is under way or already has damaged the heart muscle. They can’t tell if the plaque inside arteries is poised to rupture. 
So it’s not that uncom­mon for someone to suffer a heart attack shortly after passing a stress test or be­ing told that their chest pain was nothing to worry about. 
Wednesday’s study, fund­ed by the National Institutes of Health, investigated cells shed from the endothelium, or the lining of blood ves­sels, into the bloodstream. They’re called “circulating endothelial cells.” 
First, Topol’s team paired with Veridex LLC, a Johnson & Johnson unit that makes technology used to find can­cer cells floating in blood. Could it find these cardio­vascular cells, too? 
The team took blood sam­ples from 50 heart attack patients — before they had any artery-disturbing tests or treatments — and from 44 healthy volunteers. They counted lots of the endo­thelial cells floating in the heart attack victims’ blood, and very little in the healthy people’s blood. 
The big surprise: The cells in the heart patients were grossly deformed. “Sick cells,” is how Topol de­scribes them. 
The study couldn’t tell when those abnormal cells first appeared — and that’s key, said Wake Forest’s Lit­tle. It’s not clear how many heart attacks happen too suddenly for any warning period. 
But Topol theorizes there are plaques that break apart gradually and may shed these cells for up to two weeks before the heart attack. He cites autopsy studies that found people’s arteries healed several plaque ruptures before the final one that killed them. 
Topol said Scripps and Ve­ridex have filed for a patent for a blood test to detect the abnormal cells. 



Obama, Republicans debate energy policy 
Associated Press 
MALJAMAR, N.M.  — Woo­ing a nation of increasingly an­gry motorists, President Barack Obama and his Republican ri­vals are all plunging into gas-pump politics, seeking the up­per hand as energy becomes a driving issue in the election campaign. 
The president is defending his energy agenda this week, traveling Wednesday to a solar panel plant in Nevada and oil and gas fields in New Mexico and the site of a future oil pipe­line in Oklahoma that the White House is promising to acceler­ate. At the same time, GOP op­ponents from front-runner Mitt Romney on down are vigorously accusing him of stifling domes­tic production and betting on foolhardy alternative energy methods over traditional oil drilling. 
With gasoline reaching $3.86 a gallon in the U.S. and appar­ently heading higher, the public is impatient for Obama — or someone in his place — to do something about it. 
In truth, a president has little direct control over gas prices, which have risen more than 50 cents a gallon since January in response to a standoff over Iran’s nuclear program that has threatened to disrupt Middle East oil supplies. 
Well aware of Republicans’ criticism, Obama’s advisers ar­gue that voters take a sophisti­cated view toward energy and think about it as a problem de­manding long-term answers. They know that talk about fu­ture solutions may not satisfy people as they endure high pric­es, but they’re betting that vot­ers will side with the candidate they trust the most to deal with the issue — and they’re deter­mined that that will be Obama. 
“We’re drilling all over the place,” Obama said in Malja­mar, N.M., in a field dotted with oil rigs. 
Polls show less certainty about it all. One survey this month by CBS News and The New York Times found that 54 percent of Americans felt the price of gasoline was something a president could do a lot about while 36 percent said it was beyond his control. And a re­cent Washington Post/ABC poll found 50 percent thought the Obama administration could reasonably do something to bring down gas prices, while 45 percent felt the recent rapid rise has been beyond White House control. 

Obama has repeatedly ar­gued that drilling for new oil alone will not solve the nation’s energy woes or reduce gas pric­es. He accuses Republicans of claiming they can “wave a mag­ic wand” to return to the days of cheap gas, and on Wednesday, he mocked them for having a “lack of imagination” about al­ternative energy. 
“You’d think that everybody would be supportive of solar power,” Obama said from the Copper Mountain Solar 1 facil­ity in Nevada, the largest plant of its kind in the country, with nearly 1 million solar panels. “And yet if some politicians had their way, there won’t be any more public investment in solar energy. There won’t be as many new jobs.” 
Obama carried three of the four states on this week’s itiner­ary — Oklahoma is one of the safest Republican states in the nation — but all four elected Republican governors in 2010. Two of the governors, Brian Sandoval of Nevada and Susana Martinez of New Mexico, have been floated as potential vice presidential choices this year. Obama was making his first visit to Oklahoma as president 
He has been hurt by his ad­ministration’s decision to pump millions into California solar company Solyndra before it col­lapsed. And he’s been repeat­edly criticized by Republican presidential candidates for blocking the 1,700-mile Key­stone XL pipeline, which would carry tar sands oil from west­ern Canada to refineries along the Texas Gulf Coast. 


March supports Florida teen 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The parents of a black teenager shot to death by a Hispanic neighborhood watch captain in Florida told hundreds of people at a march in his memory on Wednesday that they won’t stop until they get justice for him. 
“My son did not deserve to die,” the teenager’s father, Tra­cy Martin, said after thanking the crowd. 
Martin’s son, 17-year-old Trayvon Martin, was killed Feb. 26, in Sanford, Fla. He was re­turning to a gated community in the city after buying candy at a convenience store. He was un­armed and was wearing a hood­ed sweat shirt, called a hoodie. 
The neighborhood watch cap­tain, George Zimmerman, has not been charged in the shoot­ing. Zimmerman has said the teen attacked him and he shot him in self-defense. 
On Wednesday night, demon­strators chanted “we want ar­rests” during the Million Hood­ie March in Manhattan’s Union Square. 
The teen’s mother, Sybrina Fulton, told the crowd: “My heart is in pain, but to see the support of all of you really makes a difference.” 
The demonstrators greeted the teen’s parents with “God bless you!” 
The march splintered into various groups, with some dem­onstrators heading to Times Square to hold an impromptu rally and dozens of others mak­ing their way to downtown Man­hattan. At times, it appeared the march had become indis­tinguishable from an Occupy event, with some protesters climbing atop the Wall Street bull sculpture. 
The Florida shooting has ig­nited a furor against the police department of the Orlando sub­urb of 53,500 people, prompt­ing rallies and a protest in Gov. Rick Scott’s office on Tuesday. The Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division said it is sending its community relations service this week to Sanford to “address tension in the community.” 
Earlier in the week, the fed­eral agency opened a civil rights probe into the shooting, and in Florida, Seminole County State Attorney Norm Wolfinger said a grand jury will meet April 10 to consider evidence in the case. 
Tracy Martin said he and his son’s mother found out about the march after arriving in New York City, where they have done interviews about the case. They got in touch with the organiz­ers to say they would attend and speak to the crowd. 
The timing of the teen’s par­ents being in the city when the march was happening was “in­credible,” said one of the or­ganizers, Daniel Maree, who heard about the case earlier this week. 
“I was outraged and want­ed to do something about it,” Maree said. 
In recent days, information surrounding the teen’s death has been coming out, including 911 calls and an account from his family’s lawyer of a conver­sation he had with his girlfriend in the moments before his death. 



Spring allergies arrive early in U.S. 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Allergy season has come early and hit with a wheezing vengeance in parts of the South and Midwest this year, thanks largely to an unusually warm winter. Abun­dant pollen is causing watery eyes, sniffles and sneezing. 
Doctors say the spring mis­ery stretches from Mississippi to Ohio and from Georgia to Texas, where drought conditions have exacerbated the problem. Fore­casters and allergists blame the unseasonably warm weather, and few cold snaps, for causing plants to bloom weeks early and release the allergy-causing par­ticles. 
In some areas, allergists say pollen counts this week are as high as they’ve ever recorded. A clinic at Vanderbilt University in Nashville recorded 11,000 grains of pollen per cubic meter Tues­day, the worst in the 12 years they’ve tracked the number. The Atlanta Allergy & Asthma Clinic has measured pollen since the 1980s and says this week’s counts have beaten a high mark recorded there in April 1999. Their count for Tuesday was al­most 9,400. Fifteen-hundred is considered very high. 
The medical director of the Vanderbilt Asthma, Sinus and Allergy Program says he’s been seeing more patients — even while feeling puny himself. 
“I’m kind of sniffly today,” Dr. David Hagaman said Tuesday. 
The Asthma and Allergy Foun­dation of America says more than 40 million Americans have nasal allergies, popularly called hay fever. In severe cases, sufferers have difficulty breathing that can send them to the emergency room. 
Stephanie Baxter was wal­loped when she returned to Gall­atin, Tenn., from a vacation in Florida last week. 
“We hit Tennessee and they started,” she said. “I have every possible symptom you can have. I’m trying to keep my energy be­cause I have a 3-month-old and a 3-year-old. There’s no time for rest.” 
For three years, the founda­tion has ranked Knoxville, Tenn., as the worst city in the country for allergies — based on pollen counts, sales of allergy medica­tions and the presence allergy specialists. The city has been up to 20 degrees warmer than nor­mal the past few weeks. Spring arrived prematurely — along with sales of nose spray. 
“It’s blooming so early,” said Sam Roberts, a meteorologist with the National Weather Ser­vice in Morristown, Tenn. “Grass mowing has started early this year and stirred things up.” 
Ranee Randby, community relations director for the Knox County Health Department, said Knoxville’s scenic location in the Tennessee valley contributes to the problem. 
“We’re surrounded by moun­tains and whatever gets in here stays in here. It’s like a bowl,” she said. 



Romney gathers support among GOP establishment 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The Repub­lican establishment started to coalesce around Mitt Romney in earnest on Wednesday, with Jeb Bush and other leading Republi­cans pressuring Rick Santorum to leave the race after a thump­ing in the Illinois primary. 
But, on what should have been a triumphant day, Romney found himself having to defend his conservative credentials anew after one of his own top advis­ers, Eric Fehrnstrom, remarked that “everything changes” for the fall campaign. “It’s almost like an Etch A Sketch,” he said. “You can kind of shake it up and we start all over again.” 
The remark fueled criticism that Romney molds his prin­ciples to fit with political goals. Democrats pounced, and by day’s end his GOP opponents were waving the draw, shake and erase toys at campaign events in Louisiana. 
“The issues I’m running on will be exactly the same,” the former Massachusetts gover­nor said in Arbutus, Md., as Re­publicans and Democrats alike mocked him. “I’m running as a conservative Republican. I was a conservative governor. I will be running as a conservative Republican nominee — hope­fully, nominee at that point. The policies and the positions are the same.” 
It all nearly overshadowed the endorsement from Bush, the son of one president and the brother of another. He had stayed out of the race for months, and some party elders publicly had urged him to become a candidate as Romney struggled to close the deal with the conservative base of the party. 
Bush refused, and on Wednes­day he made his preference in the race known after Romney’s double-digit Illinois victory. 
“Now is the time for Republi­cans to unite behind Gov. Rom­ney and take our message of fiscal conservatism and job cre­ation to all voters this fall,” Bush said in a written statement. He congratulated the other Repub­lican candidates “for a hard-fought, thoughtful debate and primary season.” 
His backing comes amid fresh signs that big GOP donors and other party figures will follow Bush’s lead after sitting on the sidelines for much of the prima­ry season. Romney is on pace to win the nomination in June. He has 563 delegates in the overall count maintained by The Asso­ciated Press, out of 1,144 needed to win the party nod. Santorum has 263 delegates, Newt Gin­grich 135 and Ron Paul 50. 
Hours after Bush weighed in, Bob Dole, the former Senate majority leader and a longtime Romney supporter, suggested that Santorum must decide soon whether to stay in or surrender his bid for the nomination. 
“Rick, I think, he’s got a real problem,” Dole, who became the GOP nominee in 1996 on his third try, told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. “It’s getting close to the point where he’s got to take a hard look at it.” 
At the same time, campaign fi­nance reports released Tuesday showed that big donors to a GOP political organization founded by political strategist Karl Rove have boosted their financial sup­port for Romney in recent weeks. 
Bush’s support came as a sur-prise to the Romney campaign. The former Florida governor personally contacted Romney Wednesday morning to say he planned to make the endorse­ment. 

Romney made one quick pub­lic appearance in Maryland on Wednesday ahead of the April 3 primary there. He planned to spend much of Thursday per­sonally courting members of Congress and other officials in Washington. 
But the Etch A Sketch remark threatened to dog him. 
It happened early Wednesday on CNN when Fehrnstrom was asked if the extended primary fight “might force the gover­nor to tack so far to the right it would hurt him with moderate voters in the general election.” 
Fehrnstrom responded: “I think you hit a reset button for the fall campaign. Everything changes. It’s almost like an Etch A Sketch. You can kind of shake it up and we start all over again.” The aide didn’t back away from the comment when asked to clarify it. He said only that the general election is “a different race, with different candidates, and the main issue now becomes” exclusively Presi­dent Barack Obama. 
It didn’t take long for the Democratic National Committee and Romney’s Republican rivals to seize on the remark. 
In Louisiana, Santorum bran­dished an Etch A Sketch and told voters he is a candidate who stands “firmly on the rocks of freedom, not on the sands of an Etch A Sketch toy.” 
Gingrich stood on stage elsewhere in the state and ex­plained to his audience just what the toys were. “Gov. Rom­ney’s staff, they don’t even have the decency to wait until they get the nomination to explain to us how they’ll sell us out,” he said. “I think having an Etch A Sketch as your campaign model raises every doubt about where we’re going.” 
Louisiana holds its primary Saturday. Santorum is favored in the state, though Romney’s allies are airing TV ads there even though the South has prov­en less hospitable to Romney. 
Beyond Saturday, polls show Romney has the advantage heading toward Maryland’s April 3 primary. 
For his part, Obama on Wednesday headed to Nevada, New Mexico and Oklahoma on a trip aimed at answering crit­ics of his energy policies, sure to be a key issue in the fall cam­paign. His first stop was a plant in Nevada that uses solar panels to power homes, part of an ef­fort to highlight his programs to expand renewable energy sources. 


U.S. markets change little in slow day 
Associated Press 
WALL STREET — U.S. stocks closed mixed Wednesday after a quiet trading day that left the indexes little changed. 
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 45.57 points, or 0.3 percent, to 13,124.62. It had been up 20 shortly after the opening bell. The Dow had its biggest loss in two weeks on Tuesday, falling 
68.94 points. 
The Standard & Poor’s 500 index closed down 2.63 points, or 0.2 percent, at 1,402.89. The Nasdaq composite aver­age closed up 1.17 at 3,075.32. 
Hewlett-Packard led the Dow lower, sliding 2.2 percent after saying it would combine its printer and PC divisions to save money and improve ef­ficiency. H-P is coping with declining sales of PCs and printer ink as smartphones, tablets and electronic docu­ment-sharing gain popularity. 
Earlier Wednesday, the Na­tional Association of Real­tors released a mixed report about the state of the hous­ing market. Sales of previ­ously occupied homes dipped last month, but the sales pace for the winter was the best in five years, NAR said. Housing has been dragging on the eco­nomic recovery; an oversupply of homes has decimated con­struction and other trades in many parts of the country. 
Without strongly positive or negative news to move the market, stocks meandered sideways for most of the day. John Manley, chief equity strategist for Wells Fargo Ad­vantage Funds, said the lack of market-moving events is generally good for stocks. Traders are increasingly con­fident that the risks hanging over the market from Europe, oil prices and China will blow over, he said. 
“If it hasn’t happened today, that means it might not hap­pen tomorrow,” Manley said. “My guess is, no news means a slight upward bias to the mar­ket.” 
Stocks closed lower on Tues­day after two reports signaled an economic slowdown in China. Supercharged growth in China over the past three years has helped sustain the global economic recovery. The Dow had its biggest loss since March 6. 
In a research report Wednesday, Goldman Sachs analysts urged investors to dump bonds and put money into stocks. The report ar­gues that the weak economic growth in the United States and Europe is not universal, and that the 2010s could be the strongest period for world growth between 1980 and 2050. 



SYRIA 


Additional rebels swear allegiance to uprising 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT — The gunmen in eastern Syria, wielding grenade launchers and assault rifles, an­nounced on the Internet they were forming the “God is Great” Brigade and joining the coun­try’s rebellion. They swore alle­giance to the Free Syrian Army and vowed to topple President Bashar Assad. 
But unlike many other rebel bands, they wrapped their proc­lamation in hard-line Islamic language, declaring their fight to be a “jihad,” or holy war, and urging others to do the same. 
“To our fellow revolutionar­ies, don’t be afraid to declare jihad in the path of God. Seek victory from the One God. God is the greatest champion,” the brigade’s spokesman said in the January video. “Instead of fight­ing for a faction, fight for your nation, and instead of fighting for your nation, fight for God.” 
As Syria’s uprising evolves into an armed insurgency, parts of the movement are taking on overt religious overtones. Islam­ic movements in and out of the country are vying to gain influ­ence over the revolt in hopes of gathering power if Assad falls. 
The Islamists’ role complicates choices for the United States and other nations who say they want to help the opposition without empowering radicals; a string of anti-regime suicide bombings have raised fears of al-Qaida in­volvement. 
The groups diverge from vio­lent jihadi movements to politi­cal moderates like the Muslim Brotherhood, which has already used the Arab Spring revolu­tions to vault to power in Tunisia and Egypt elections. 
Their growing influence is seeding divisions within an al­ready fractured opposition. A week ago, several prominent figures quit the Syrian National Council, the body of exiles that has tried to emerge as the op­position’s political leadership. They complained the fundamen­talist Brotherhood dominates the group. 
The council is “a liberal front for the Muslim Brotherhood,” said Kamal Labwani, a veteran secular dissident, who broke away. He said the Brotherhood was trying to build allegiances on the ground in Syria. 
“One day we will wake up to find an armed militia ... control­ling the country through their weapons,” Labwani said. 
The U.S. has rejected sending arms to rebels, fearing a sectar­ian civil war. U.S. officials also warn that al-Qaida’s militants in Iraq are infiltrating Syria — worries heightened by attacks in Damascus and Aleppo using al­Qaida’s signature tactic, suicide bombings. 
An Islamic militant group, the Al-Nusra Front, on Tues­day claimed responsibility for a double suicide bombing that killed 27 people in Damascus over the weekend. The group ap­pears to be a front for al-Qaida’s Iraq branch, said a U.S. official, speaking on condition of ano­nymity to discuss matters of in­telligence. 

Judging the extent of Islamist influence in Syria’s uprising is difficult, in part because Syria has largely prevented journal­ists from reporting on the con­flict. 
Opposition activists are reluc­tant to talk about any Islamist role because Assad’s regime de­picts their movement as solely a campaign by terrorists and Islamic radicals. Such rhetoric is highly effective in scaring re­ligious minorities and moderate Sunnis away from supporting the uprising. 
But activists acknowledge Is­lamists could have appeal for an opposition bloodied by Assad’s brutal campaign against the up­rising, which the U.N. says has left more than 8,000 dead. 
“Repression breeds extrem­ism,” said Omar, a student activ­ist in Damascus. “People left on their own will resort to anything and anyone to help them.” He gave only his first name for fear of reprisals.” 




INSIDE COLUMN 

It’s baseball season 
Last Friday, I witnessed the basketball team lose early in the NCAA tourna­ment in a disappointing last minute loss. After the game, one of the sports writers summed it up best: “Well, it’s baseball season.” I could not agree more. Sarah O’Connor It’s finally baseball season! Multimedia 
It’s the time of Editor year when people on the quads trade their footballs for their mitts and baseballs, when SportsCenter’s Top 10 features diving catches, double plays, and homeruns and when movies like “The Rookie,” “A League of Their Own,” “Field of Dreams” and, my per­sonal favorite, “The Sandlot” seem less ridiculous as choices to watch. 
Ever since I can remember, baseball has been a constant in my house. From the early days of T-ball and Little League, my springs and summers were spent at softball games and practices watching my brothers play weekend double head­ers and night games. We went to morn­ing swim team practice and hung around for hours afterwards to play beach Wiffle ball with over 30 of the neighborhood kids. Afternoons were spent outside playing catch or having homerun derbies in the backyard with tennis balls. Our television seemed to be stuck on WGN and the Chicago Cubs baseball games. 
Although I come from Omaha, which has no major league team, I never felt deprived; we had something better, the College World Series. It’s an entire week-and-a-half of baseball at its purest. I have made it to at least one game each year (averaging five or six games a year as I grew older) except for last year since I was more than 4,000 miles away in London. Some of my London friends will even vouch the only downside I had with studying abroad was missing the College World Series, and although I was kidding about that being a reason not to go to London, it does go to show how much love I have for that week and the sport. 
From the upper decks of Wrigley to behind home plate at the Metrodome, in 21 years, I have yet to find a bad seat. I love everything about the atmosphere at a baseball game. It has its own sense of excitement stretched out over nine innings, where the crowd can still come together and cheer just as loudly as a football game, but settle down enough for you to actually enjoy the company of those you came with. And despite my love for the sport, more often than not the best moments frequently don’t even in­clude the actual game. There’s the beach balls thrown around between innings, the different variations of team rally caps, the rain delay antics, the celebrity seventh inning stretch and the postgame fireworks. It’s an atmosphere you don’t get at any other sporting event. 
This is why, in the middle of class today, my day was made when I realized that I would be working in a city with a professional team this summer. The thought of sitting in the stands, drink­ing a lemon ice while getting an awe­some farmer’s sunburn and watching an actual professional game thrilled me. And although I will be in Cincinnati for the summer, I am already preparing to book my flights home for the weekend of the College World Series so I don’t have to completely miss it again. 
As much as I love college football and watching the drama of March Madness... 
It’s baseball season. 
Contact Sarah O’Connor at      soconno6@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



A random walk to the Final Four 
The stock market can seem so er­ratic. One day it’s up and analysts are screaming “buy, buy, buy!” The next day it’s down and the only “bye-rs” left are the washed up members of N*Sync. 
There’s a theory in finance Grace Concelman that stock prices follow a “random Options and walk,” which Futures means that changes in price have the same distri­butions for every stock and all changes are independent of one another. Basi­cally, this means we cannot predict a stock’s future movement based on the fact that it was up or down in the past. If the random walk hypothesis was true, a portfolio of stocks chosen by monkeys throwing darts at stock names would perform just as well as a portfolio painstakingly crafted by the finest analysts on Wall Street. 
Besides stocks, there are other things that seem to follow a random walk: the movement of molecules in gases, the spread of certain genes through populations, some Notre Dame students coming home from the Backer on a Saturday night or maybe even the NCAA basketball tournament. 
The upsets in the tournament last weekend got me thinking: What if the games follow a random walk? If they do, then filling out a bracket by flip­ping a coin should produce the same results as carefully picking each win­ner. 
So, I set up a highly unscientific 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
experiment to compare how a bracket constructed by coin flips would fare against the aggregated national brack­et in the first round. For the national bracket, which reflects the consensus from a wide variety of people submit­ting brackets, I advanced whichever team had a higher percentage of peo­ple choosing it to win. For the random bracket, I flipped a coin and advanced the first team on heads and the second team on tails. I replicated the random bracket five times and averaged the results. 
The random bracket correctly picked an average of 17.2 winners out of 32 winners in the first round whereas the national bracket picked 22 first round winners. So, according to my experi­ment, the tournament is not completely random. 
But, the stock market isn’t complete­ly random either. If it was, it would be impossible to make money consistently by only buying stocks. Critics of the random walk theory believe that stock prices do maintain trends over time. These critics believe the market is not totally efficient and that it is possible to outperform the market by buying and selling at the right time. 
There are three different levels of market efficiency: strong, semi-strong, and weak. The example of the ran­dom bracket is a test for strong form market efficiency, which states that all information in a market (including insider information) is accounted for in a stock price. Semi-strong form states that all public information is account­ed for, and weak form only states that past prices are included in the present stock price, so past performance can­not be used to predict future prices. 
Since the totally random strong form bracket didn’t outperform the national bracket, I decided to test a weak form bracket. Weak form efficiency says that analysis of information publicly available about a company could be helpful in predicting the future move­ment of the company’s stock. I used a team’s seed in the tournament as pub­lic information that would predict a team’s performance in the first round of games, assuming that the seed reflected some sort of fundamental analysis. I automatically advanced the 1, 2, and 3 seeds from each region in the first round and used a coin flip to determine the rest of the games. The weak form brackets picked an average of 21 winners in the first round. Not bad, when compared to the national average of 22. 
As it turns out, next year, instead of watching ESPN and trying to outsmart the rest of your bracket pool, you might be better off digging a quarter out of the couch cushions and asking good old George Washington to decide. 
Grace Concelman is a senior major­ing in finance and philosophy. She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Spring is when you feel like whistling even with a shoe full of slush.” 
Doug Larson American journalist 



WEEKLY POLL 
What are you giving up for Lent? 
Huddle candy Facebook stalking Super Smash Brothers Naps 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 

ndsmcobserver.com 


Thursday, March 22, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

‘Game Change’ a wake-up call for voters 
Over spring break I watched “Game Change,” HBO’s recently aired political drama based on the 2008 presidential campaign and the selection of Sarah Palin as John McCain’s running mate. It essentially paints Palin as an unin-John Sandberg formed and poorly versed politician, to Columnist say the least. Pick­ing her as McCain’s running mate was done in an attempt at making a bold move to energize the party and had little to do with her qualifications for the job. The movie even goes so far as to strongly question the former Alaska governor’s mental stability at various points during the campaign (apparently a nutritional plan grounded on Diet Dr. Pepper and thousands of 3x5 informa­tion cards do this to a person). 
Steve Schmidt, the senior campaign strategist for McCain and a prominent character in the film, has described watching the film as being like an out of body experience. Nicole Wallace, another former senior adviser, said the scenes depicted in the movie were “true enough” to make her “squirm.” As for McCain and Palin, both have said that they have no intentions of watching “Game Change” and claim it is based off of false reports. 
Personally, I’m tempted to believe that the reality of the campaign lied somewhere in between the two sides’ accounts. On the one hand, I don’t see a whole lot of incentive for former McCain-Palin aides to tell embellished tales about their former bosses, mak­ing everyone look bad by doing so. With this in mind, one might believe that the events of the film are accurate. 
Then again, I also find it hard to be­lieve that an elected official would be so poorly-vetted that her advisors over­looked the fact that she was lacking an elementary understanding of U.S. his­tory, among other things. So I’d guess that the filmmakers took some liberties in exaggerating Palin’s unpreparedness for the situation. 
Altogether the film was entertaining. Yet once it was over I felt more embar­rassed than anything. No, I couldn’t vote in the 2008 election, but as an American citizen it made me think: Is that what presidential elections have come to? Obviously the McCain-Palin ticket ultimately lost the election, but this conversation remains relevant. 
Americans allowed a seemingly ill-equipped individual to come relatively close to being vice president. It’s crazy to think that we came that close to put­ting such an overwhelmed person in the second highest position in the executive branch and a heartbeat away from tak­ing over the presidency. Based off the movie’s account, she never should have come that close in the first place. 
Again, one is perfectly entitled to accept or reject parts of the movie that seem embellished or outright false. But if the events acted out in the film are even half true, it all amounted to an alarming wake-up call for me as a voter. While the office of the vice presidency is often joked about for its relatively small powers within the greater Washington political landscape, the implications of the office cannot be taken lightly. If “Game Change” showed us anything, it’s that a presidential can­didate’s choice for VP should be subject­ed to more than just a political analysis and instead looked at as someone who could (or could not) lead the country if called upon. 
With the potential GOP vice presiden­tial candidate still out there waiting to be selected, this wake-up call comes at a particularly fitting time. The inter­mittent chatter on cable news about who the GOP candidate’s running mate will be is interesting largely because many believe that the VP will be a more exciting individual than the presidential candidate himself. Senator Marco Rubio and Governor Chris Christie both make for interesting options, especially since so many Republicans were clamoring for them to enter the race for the White House. Whether you align with them ideologically or not, at least each seems to be well-versed in policy issues and a capable leader if called upon. 
So while the VP selection for the Republican candidate this fall may not be the number one issue at hand, it is certainly an important one. “Game Change” effectively points this out to all voters, whether they loved the film or hated it. Perhaps for many the film wasn’t as thought provoking as it was for me. In any case, consider me awake now to the potential powers of the vice presidency and the implications that the position would have for the country in a moment of great need. 
John Sandberg is a sophomore political science major from Littleton,                                                       Colo. He can be reached at                jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column                                                 are those of the author and not                  necessarily those of The Observer. 



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Save swing night 
I bear grave tidings. Swing Night at Legends has been downgraded to a Thursday and could stand a chance to be eliminated entirely next semester due to last semester’s attendance. I express the opinion that last semester was a fluke. Swing Night has always been an easy free way for the students here to experience swing dancing and has always been a blast since I have been here. A Thursday nightclub event does not do it justice, for it drives away the people who have class and work due Friday. This night is supposed to be available for everyone, not just diehards who will come no matter when it is. We have to get this night back to the weekend, but we can only do that by showing up to this one TONIGHT. I call for the suspension of work and sleep for just one mea­sly hour from 12 to 1. Use this time to come to Legends and show that a weekend Swing Night is necessary, and, furthermore, that it is impos­sible to be contained on a Thursday. The night is ours for the claiming. Come take it. 
Joshua Gaston 
junior Siegfried Hall Mar. 21 




UWIRE 

Why we love the underdog 
And the Madness has begun. The tour­nament is not even a week old and there have already been a slew of historic upsets, including the first-round defeat of two No. 2 seeds by No. 15 seeds and No. 11-seed 
N.C. State’s unprecedented trip to the Sweet 
16. Upsets are a large part of what makes March Madness so exciting—it gives under­dog teams the chance to compete against the best programs in the country. Unless you Michael Shapiro are a Duke or Miz­zou fan, chances are Columbia Daily you were ecstatic to Spectator see those teams fall. Sure, it probably destroyed your bracket, but c’mon, it destroyed everyone’s bracket. Whether we realize it or not, we gravitate to the underdogs—in March Madness and elsewhere. If being a fan of the Columbia Lions—the quintessential underdogs—has taught me anything, it’s that we should root for the little guys. 
Not everyone agrees. Michael Prell’s 2011 book “Underdogma” posits that people ir­rationally favor underdogs while demonizing favorites. He presents numerous case studies to argue that we should resist our human instinct to succumb to “underdogma,” even when it comes to sports. That also means you should have no qualms about rooting for perennial overdogs like the New York Yankees, the Miami Heat, or the Green Bay Packers. But is rooting for the little guy re­ally such a bad thing? 
Well, maybe, at least if you put money on the line. If you’re smart, a majority of your brackets should favor top seeds to last deep into the tournament—these teams are over-dogs for a reason. Those who fill out their brackets strictly based on seeding usually finish near the top. This “strategy” may not yield much satisfaction, and it is certainly anathema to devout fans, but nobody can argue with the results. 
“You picked three No. 1 seeds to go to the Final Four? Pshhhhhh.” We’ve all been on the receiving end of comments like this— I know I have. Yet seeding, for all intents and purposes, actually tells us more or less who is going to win. The numbers speak for themselves: A No. 1 seed has never lost to a No. 16 or No. 12 seed, no team seeded below No. 8 has ever won the tournament, and No. 1 seeds make the Sweet 16 over 92 percent of the time. 
These numbers don’t surprise most of us, but we still love picking upsets. Pundits spend more time speculating which teams are potential Cinderella stories than consid­ering who will actually win the tournament. Sure, sometimes we pick underdogs because we genuinely think they are underrated and are the true favorites, but in most cases we choose long shots to satiate our craving to see David defeat Goliath. Even if under-dogma isn’t reflected in our brackets, we still love when the upsets occur. I didn’t pick Lehigh to beat Duke, but, like most people, I was happy to see the Blue Devils collapse. 
For all the heartbreak and headaches, I love being a Columbia sports fan, and I think underdogma is partially responsible. We attend a college whose athletics teams are at times mocked by students, faculty, news­papers, and even our own marching band. Since we are expected to lose, at least when it comes to sports like football, winning is extra sweet. Watching our humble teams, comprised of student-athletes not on athletic scholarships, compete against much larger sports-oriented schools, is enough to make anyone an underdogmist. 
Take, for example, our basketball team’s nationally televised season-opener against fourth-ranked UConn. We were clear under­dogs entering the contest—UConn was big­ger, faster, and more skilled. They even had home-court advantage. The Lions lost 70-57, but they kept pace with the reigning NCAA champs. Since experts predicted much wider margins, we underdogmists commended the Light Blue for its heart, hustle, and resil­ience. 
Ivy League students should be the biggest proponents of underdogs because we truly understand what it means for a sports team to be at a disadvantage. While it is simplistic to support a team just because it is expected to lose, supporting the underdog should have a special place in our hearts. We should also embrace underdogma for the excitement these matchups yield. Three underdogs— Ohio (No. 13), N.C. State (No. 11), and Xavier (No. 10)—will compete in the Sweet 16 over the next two days for a spot in the Elite Eight. Let the Madness continue. 
This article originally ran in the March 20 version of the Columbia Daily Spectator, serv­ing Columbia University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



By CHRISTOPHER COLLUM 
Scene Writer 

Bruce Springsteen is an artist who certainly needs no introduction. Over the course of a 40-year career, he has released 17 studio albums which have sold over 120 million copies world­wide, received 21 Grammy awards and played thousands of shows both with and without his famous “heart-stop­ping, pants-dropping, house-rocking, earth-quaking, booty-shaking, Vi­agra-taking, love-makin’, legendary E-Street Band,” as Springsteen has come to refer to the group. 
“Wrecking Ball” is the first album Springsteen has put out since the death of saxophonist Clarence Clem­ons last June. Clemons, known as the ‘Big Man’, a nickname immortalized in crowd favorite “Tenth Avenue Freeze-Out,” was Springsteen’s sidekick and an integral part of not only the band’s live show but their on-record perfor­mances as well. 
Springsteen addresses Clemons’ death directly in the liner notes for “Wrecking Ball,” which contain an ex­cerpt from the eulogy Springsteen de­livered at Clemons’ funeral: “Clarence was big and he made me feel and think and love and dream big. How big was the Big Man? Too [expletive] big to die … Clarence doesn.t leave the E Street Band when he dies. He leaves when we die.” 
“Wrecking Ball” opens with first sin­gle “We Take Care of Our Own,” a song ripe for misinterpretation, much like “Born in the USA,” which was used by the 1984 Ronald Reagan campaign as a patriotic anthem until Springsteen threatened a lawsuit, saying that us­ing the song in such a manner was a complete misrepresentation of what it is about. 
“We Take Care of Our Own” is cen­tered around the repeated refrain, “Wherever this flag’s flown/We take care of our own.” Rather than operat­ing as an affirmation of the things that are done “wherever this flag’s flown,” however, the lyrics point to such recent missteps as the response to Hurricane Katrina. These lyrics do not point to­ward sarcasm or irony — tools rarely employed by Springsteen — but they are rather completely sincere. The narrator of the song seems to be wres­tling with the idea that the country for which he has so much compassion has failed in some respects to take care of its people. 
As the track suggests, “Wrecking Ball” is a very political album—per­haps Springsteen’s most political ever. “Death to My Hometown,” a raucous number reminiscent of the cameo Springsteen did on Boston Celtic punks the Dropkick Murphys’ cover of “Peg o’ My Heart” last year, describes the damage the Great Recession has done to a particular community. “No can­nonballs did fly/No rifles cut us down … but just as sure as the hand of God/ They brought death to my hometown,” he sings. 
Elsewhere, “Jack of all Trades” de­picts a character forced to work mul­tiple working class jobs because of the poor economy; “Rocky Ground” takes the form of a quasi-spiritual al­beit excellent song. It includes a rap verse performed by Michelle Moore that falls completely flat. Finally, “We Are Alive,” the closer, takes the form of what Bruce calls an “Irish wake,” while he sings about solidarity and closes the album on a hopeful note. 
The highlights of the album, how­ever, are the two songs Springsteen fans have heard in different forms be­fore this release. Title track “Wreck­ing Ball” is easily one of the best songs Springsteen has recorded since the E-Street Band’s first breakup in 1989. First performed at the series of con­certs the band did to close out Giants Stadium in their native New Jersey before it was torn down, the song is a rousing anthem, and the centerpiece of the album. 
A song that originally functioned as a semi-humorous ode to life in New Jersey from the stadium’s point of view is transformed in this context into an impassioned plea to all people to “Hold tight on your anger/and don’t fall to your fear” when “All our little victo­ries and glories/have been turned into parking lots,” because “Hard times come, hard times go” — the last line a refrain repeated for almost two min­utes on the album, making this song sure to be a highlight of the band’s live shows on their upcoming tour. 
“Land of Hope and Dreams,” which originally appeared on “Live in New York City,” features what will be the fi­nal two saxophone solos from Clarence Clemons. The song in this form is even more powerful, somehow, than the live version. Featuring electronic drums, a prominent mandolin riff, and one of Springsteen’s best vocal performances in the past two decades, it is similar to the best Springsteen songs: a tran­scendent experience. This experience is pushed over the top when Clemons’ wailing sax comes in just before the four-minute mark. 
Lyrically, “Wrecking Ball” shows Springsteen at the angriest level he has been in quite a while. However, through this anger there is always hope, and he is careful to always point this out. Musically, the album sounds noticeably different than “Working on a Dream,” his last release, in part because he switched producers for the first time in 10 years — Bren­dan O’Brien is replaced by Rob Ani­ello. Aniello’s fresh perspective ben­efits Springsteen’s sound greatly. Most prominently, he makes greater use of electronic sounds, from the pro­grammed handclaps in “We Take Care of Our Own” to the pulsating electronic drums in “Land of Hope and Dreams.” 
“Wrecking Ball” is Springsteen at his finest. While it may not quite stand with such classic albums of his as “Born to Run” and “Born in the USA,” very few albums from any art­ist’s catalog do. Forty years into his career, Springsteen has created an al­bum that is full of life and as relevant as anything as he has ever done and has managed to push all the emotional buttons from rage to hope and healing along the way. There’s a reason that he will be remembered as one the great­est rock songwriters of all time and “Wrecking Ball” does nothing but fur­ther his claim to a piece of that title. 
Contact Christopher Collum at ccollum@nd.edu 


Bruce Springsteen “Wrecking Ball” 
Record Label: Columbia Records Best Tracks: “Land of Hope and Dreams,” “Wrecking Ball,” “We Are Alive” 


ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 


Thursday, March 22, 2012 page 13 
“OSS 117: Cairo, Nest of Spies” Where: DeBartolo Perform­ing Arts Center When: 7 p.m. How Much: $3 for students 
“The Artist” may be the darling of Hollywood after its dominant performance at the Oscars, but before director Michel Hazanavicius and ac­tor Jean Dujardin were Oscar winners, they collaborated to create a series of spoofs of the over-styled spy thrillers of the 60s and 70s, including this critically acclaimed 2006 comedy. 


By NEIL MATHIESON 
Scene Writer 

Houses are scary. They crack, creek and contort our imaginations to be­lieve that something is going bump in the night. In “Silent House,” something really is going bump in the night.  This American re-do of a Uruguayan hor­ror film stars the lesser-known Eliza­beth Olsen as Sarah, who while helping her father clear out their old summer house is terrorized by some nefarious intruder. 
Olsen’s responsibilities as an actress in “Silent House” are daunting to the say the least. The movie moves briskly at an 85-minute run time but it’s edited to look as if it is all happening within one continuous shot. 
Therefore, Olsen is on screen for the entirety of the film and spends most of it hushed as a strange intruder stalks her. She is left with only facial expres­sions, screams and my personal favor­ite, screams where no noise comes out. 
The camera follows her closely while simultaneously being egregiously fix­ated on her cleavage. Olsen does a commendable job but the film hangs together by such weak threads that it doesn’t do her performance proper jus­tice. 
The cinematic decision of using a continuous shot throughout “Silent House” is often a useful gambit that establishes a hair-raising atmosphere of suspense. One of the older and more notable examples includes Alfred Hitchcock’s Rope. 
“Silent House” does create this sus­pense initially, but fails to hold it. Over the course of the film it becomes more of a gimmick than a crescendo to a ca-
Glee Club Spring Concert Where: DPAC When: 8 p.m. How Much: $3 for students 
The Glee Club brings their unique style and energy to the stage once again in this annual spring concert. The performance will include a wide variety of music, in­cluding choral, folk, spiri­tual and popular pieces. The event will take place at Debartolo Performing Arts Center and tickets are only $3 apiece for students. Don’t miss this amazing musical performance! 
thartic and terrifying climax.  On the whole, the acting is staler than bread during the revolution and the writing didn’t appear to survive the translation into English. 
“Silent House” even gets a little avant-garde in its later stages but causes more confusion than it does in­trigue. Most importantly, however, “Si­lent House” isn’t frightening. In fact, it’s far less frightening than its trailer. There were no screams from the gal­lery and it appeared that after an hour the viewers’ iPhones became more fas­cinating than what was on screen. 
Unfortunately, I cannot disagree with them. In “Silent House” the cam­era shakes incessantly and the dim lighting causes the audience to strain their eyes in an attempt to make sense of what they are seeing. However, when the image is finally revealed to us the payoff is furiously underwhelming and we feel as if we have been strung along for nothing. In a word we were cheated. 
Contact Neil Mathieson at nmathies@nd.edu 

“Silent House” 
Directed by: Chris Kentis and Laura Lau Starring: Elizabeth Olsen, Adam Trese, Eric Sheffer Stevens 
SUB Concert Where: Stepan Center When: Doors open at 7:30 p.m. How Much: $15 
The 90s pop group Third Eye Blind and underground rapper Hoodie Allen are bringing their talents to South Bend this weekend, in what promises to be a fun show. Tickets went on sale Wednesday morning at the LaFortune box office. Doors will open at 7:30 p.m. and the show will begin at 8 p.m. Don’t miss the SUB concert of the year! 
Violinist Rachel Lee and pianist Daniel Schlosberg When: 2 p.m. Where: Leighton Concert Hall at DPAC How Much: $3 
Rachel Lee is one of the most celebrated violinists of our time and is only 24 years old. She has already soloed for the Chicago Symphony  Orchestra  and many others. Daniel Scholsberg, the University’s Artist-in-Residence in the Department of Music, will join her on stage. Tickets are $3 each. 






SPORTS AUTHORITY 

In sports, out with the new and in with the old 
Suddenly, everything old is new again in the sports world. 
Put your talk of rising stars to the side. Forget Blake Griffin, Ricky Rubio and John Wall lighting up the court. Forget about Bryce Harper, Ste­phen Stras­burg and the future stars of the diamond. Let Andrew Luck and Robert Grif­fin III have their day on the football field — in 2015. 
Despite the fact that young stars are popping up all over the place, the sports world is partying like it’s 1999. 
In case you’ve been living under a rock recently, all-time NFL great Peyton Man­ning shook up the headlines 

Chris Allen 
Sports Editor 
young prospects on the ho­rizon, are a group of guys nearing membership in AARP competing for roster spots? 
Simply, sports fans are re­alizing that they didn’t know what they had until it was taken away from them. Dur­ing a player’s career, he is human. We appreciate what he brings, but often he is as good as his last start, his last pass or his last reception. The first season that a player moves away from a game, we naturally begin to form the legend that will accompany his career. We contextual­ize his accomplishments; we compare him against his peers. Suddenly, those bad starts and inconsistencies fade into the background and the more admirable qualities of a player’s career become what we, as fans, remember. This is how the human quali­ties that define a player’s 
career 
become the 
qualities of 
a legend. 

this week by Simply, sports fans are When 
signing with players leave 
realizing that they didn’t 
the Denver the game 
know what they had until 
Broncos. Man-briefly as 
it was taken away from 
ning immedi-Manning, 
them. During a player’s 
ately spoke of Pettitte and 
career, he is human. We 
the need to win Moyer did, immediately in appreciate what he brings, the process Denver. Most but often he is as good of evaluat­football fans as his last start, his last ing those will take him pass or his last reception. careers be-
seriously. 
In the Bronx, left-handed pitcher Andy Pettitte came out of a one-year retirement to return to the franchise that made him famous, the New York Yankees. Reports out of Yankees camp say that Pet­titte’s bullpen sessions have been among the best by any Yankee pitcher this spring. He will almost certainly push a younger, more exciting pitcher out of the rotation. Very few Yankee fans will have a prob­lem with this. 
In the spring training camp of the Colorado Rock­ies, 49-year-old pitcher Jamie Moyer is tossing fastballs touching 80 miles per hour for a franchise that did not exist when he broke into the major leagues. For those interested, Moyer debuted for the Chi­cago Cubs in 1986, the same year Bon Jovi released “Slip­pery When Wet”. Now, Moyer is livin’ on a prayer — and a changeup — in hoping to make a roster for the first time since 2010. 
Why, with such exciting gins. When 
they return, 
they return 
with a bit of 
that leg­
end intact. 
Bronco fans are getting more than a quar­terback to win them the AFC West and beef up their passing game. They are also getting a player that, because of his absence, has truly earned the ‘living legend’ status. Yankee fans are getting more than a fifth starter with postseason experience. They are also get­ting an icon from their past, as if a figure from the history books stepped off of the pages and into the 2012 season. 
Five years in the future, the names like Harper, Strasburg and Rubio will own the sports world. But we’ll only have names like Manning, Pettitte and Moyer for so long. Long live the old guard. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



TENNIS 


Williams triumphs in Florida 

Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. — Venus Williams won in her first singles match since August, dispatching Kim­iko Date-Krumm 6-0, 6-3 at the Sony Ericsson Open on Wednesday. 
She beamed wide, raised her arms in victory, then skipped to the net to shake’s Date-Krumm’s hand before twirling around and pumping her arms in a celebration wor­thy of winning the title, not just a first match. 
But other than playing a meaningless doubles match during the Unit­ed States’ Fed Cup first round victory over Belar­us in early February, she hadn’t played an official match since the U.S. Open first round. 
The 31-year-old Wil­liams withdrew from her second round match against Sabine Lisicki at the U.S. Open after an­nouncing she was diag­nosed with the fatigue-causing, auto-immune disease known as Sjo­gren’s Syndrome. 
“I mean, just to be in this tournament is a huge win for me. Just to be here is a win,” Williams said. “You know, that’s what I told myself going in, that this is a win. I have noth­ing to lose. Just, you know, to gain. Just to get back at this level is a win for me.” 
Asked how she felt dur­ing and after the match, Williams said, “I feel like a person that has an au­toimmune disease. You know, for me, I’m not go­ing to probably feel like everybody else. But for me, my personal best is to give 100 percent” 
Once a world No. 1 and a seven-time Grand Slam singles champion, Wil­liams is ranked No. 134. She’s hoping to be able to play steadily now and to make her third U.S. Olym­pic team — she won gold in singles and doubles at the 2000 Sydney Games and a doubles gold medal at the 2008 Beijing Games. 
Williams had five aces and 26 overall winners in the match while tak­ing advantage of five of 10 break point opportunities. 
In the first set, Williams lost only seven points on serve. She dropped her serve only once in the match, in the first game of the second set. 
The unseeded Kim Cli­jsters, a former Sony Eric­sson Open champion (2005 and 2010), came through a 4-6, 6-1, 6-0 first-rounder against Jarmila Gajdosova of Australia. 
Clijsters, a four-time Grand Slam champion, is currently ranked No. 37. 
This match was Clijsters’ first outing on court since she sustained a left ankle injury at the Australian Open. She lost in three sets to eventual champion Victoria Azarenka in the Australian Open semifi­nals. 
“My ankle feels — it feels totally fine,” Clijsters said. “I don’t worry about it anymore. I’m not able to play without the tape yet. I still need that support.” 
Clijsters clearly strug­gled to find her form at the outset of the match. She lost the first set to the No. 45 ranked Gajdosova after initially leading 3-1 in that opening set. 
But once she found her groove, she dominated the final two sets, only losing one of 13 games played. 
In the first set, Clijsters surrendered her serve on two of nine break points. In the second set, Clijsters saved all four break points she faced. And by the third set she never offered Gajdosova a break oppor­tunity. 
“When it comes down to my game I just felt like I wasn’t just quite going through my shots as well as I should have,” Clijsters said. “As I started to feel more comfortable in the conditions and playing matches again, I felt like I was hitting through the ball better, and that showed in the second and third set.” 
Sandwiched between the Clijsters and Williams matches was one between two tour veterans that once ranked in the top 10: James Blake of the U.S. and Nikolay Davydenko of Russia. 
The 32-year-old Blake opened strong and scored the first set win. But he wilted against the 30-year-old Davydenko who eventually won, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 

between 2001 and the present and For more information, visit ND’s Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, Faculty or Grad Students Only. FOR SALE developed blood clots, suffered website at: WANTED responsible, and love children. Immac 3br with large rec room, 
a stroke, heart attack or required http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu June 10 through August 5. $1800 garage, walk to campus. $1200/mo 
gall bladder removal, you may be plus room & board, and the + utilities 847-420-7589 
entitled to compensation. Call A Baby is a Blessing: Adoption experience of a lifetime provided. 
2002 Audi A4 1.8T quattro. 

Attorney Charles Johnson, 1-800-We’re both educators who value SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Download application: www. House for rent. 3BR $600 per Excellent condition.85,000 
535-5727. learning, family and our happy 8 Make a difference in the life of a baycliff.org. For more information bedroom. Utilities included. 506 No mi.$8,000. 574-273-8683 
yr marriage. We’ll give your child child! Summer therapy camp for call or e-mail: (906) 345-9314 ND Ave. Call 574-272-2940 a happy home, a stay-at-home children with physical disabilities. or baycliff@baycliff.org. Email UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t mom and a large, devoted Catholic Located on the shores of Lake baycliff@baycliff.org Faculty or Grad Students. Spacious PERSONAL go it alone. Notre Dame has many family (9 cousins and growing!). Superior in Big Bay, MI. Positions 2br,2-1/2 ba with LR,DR,fam rm, 
resources in place to assist you. We very much look forward to available for Counselors, 4-season rm, AC, Sec Sys, 2-car If you used Yaz/Yazmin/Ocella If you or someone you love needs talking to you. Call Kim and Robert Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/ gar, near campus, bsmt, fen. yrd birth control pills or a NuvaRing confidential support or assistance, (855) 788-2810. Arts & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, FOR RENT + utility rm, no pets. $1500/mo + 
Vaginal Ring Contraceptive please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. 
Therapists, Food Service, and utilities. 262-332-0015 


NBA 




Veteran Fisher signs with Oklahoma City 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — After winning five NBA titles with the Los Angeles Lakers, Derek Fisher chose the West-leading Okla­homa City Thunder as the team where he wants to go for No. 6. 
Fisher signed with the Thunder for the remainder of the season on Wednesday, not quite a week after he was traded to Houston by the Lakers and subsequently bought out of his contract instead of playing with the Rockets. 
He picked jersey No. 37, the same as his age, and hoped to play right away and perhaps be able to maintain his streak of consecutive games played. 
More importantly, he wants to continue his run of postseason success. 
“Right now, they sit on top of the Western Conference and I’m just hopeful that the things that I do, the things that I’ve always brought to every team I’ve ever played on, can be the right mix to help these guys continue to do whatever it is that they’re al­ready doing,” Fisher said before the game. 
The Thunder lost their backup point guard, Eric Maynor, to a season-ending knee injury in January but hadn’t made any moves to address the position. All-Star Russell Westbrook had been taking on extra minutes as the starter, with rookie Reg­gie Jackson taking over as his backup. 
Then Fisher became avail­able when the Lakers decided to acquire Ramon Sessions from Cleveland and promote Steve Blake to the starter. Fisher had won five titles alongside Kobe Bryant in two separate stints with the Lakers, with stops in 
NFL 


League examines possible rule changes 
Utah and Golden State in be­tween. 
He had played 13 of his 16 NBA seasons with Los Angeles before getting dealt away at last week’s trade deadline. 
“I think that I was surprised by it, but since then I’ve very much realized that it’s not so much about what went wrong and why it happened but more so where I’m going next and the next chap­ter of my life,” Fisher said, de­clining to speak in depth about his divorce with the team until later. 
Fisher figures to take over Jackson’s backup minutes, al­though coach Scott Brooks called the 2011 first-round draft pick one of the Thunder’s “important pieces going forward.” Fisher has averaged 8.7 points and 3.1 assists during his career and has played in 209 playoff games in 13 trips to the postseason. 
“He has winner all over his DNA,” Brooks said. “You can never have enough winners in your locker room, and we have a locker room full of them. He just gives us one more winner.” 
Fisher played with the Lakers when they knocked Oklahoma City out in the first round of the 2010 playoffs on their way to a second straight championship. He said he’s always respected the team because he’s observed that the players play with energy ev­ery single game. 
That approach was reinforced when he met with general man­ager Sam Presti while he was go­ing through the process of clear­ing waivers and becoming a free agent. 
“It’s very clear that there’s one common goal, and that’s to maxi­mize the abilities of every player on the team and try to bring, at some point, a championship to Oklahoma City,” Fisher said. 

Oklahoma City made room for Fisher by waiving forward Ryan Reid, a second-round pick in 2010 who had played in only five games over the past season and a half. 
“He’s got great poise, he’s got a great basketball IQ, great recog­nition on both ends of the floor,” Presti said of Fisher. “He under­stands the league, he’s a well-regarded corner shooter and someone that we feel like can settle you down and make plays for you throughout the body of the game.” 
Presti praised Jackson and reserve Royal Ivey for filling Maynor’s minutes over the past two months well enough to give Oklahoma City the league’s third-best record, behind Miami and Chicago, heading into Wednes­day night’s game against the Los Angeles Clippers. 
“We have a lot of confidence in the group that we have in place, obviously, to be where we are right now,” Presti said. “We know we can improve. ... We feel like Derek’s someone that can help enhance where we are cur­rently.” 
Two-time scoring champion Kevin Durant endorsed Fisher’s arrival even before he had offi­cially signed and envisioned him as a mentor to the young team who’s still able to hit clutch shots and defend. He was hesitant to look forward and assess Fisher’s impact on the Thunder’s champi­onship hopes. 



Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Instant replay 
could  undergo  some  changes  
when  NFL  owners  meet  next  
week.  

The owners will get proposals to eliminate referees from in­stant replay reviews and expand what the booth official rules on, and also to allow a player to re­turn during the season from the injured reserve list. 
The league’s competition com­mittee, prompted by the Buffalo Bills, will propose having the booth official make all decisions on replay reviews. He also would be allowed to review all turn­overs just as he now reviews all scoring plays. 
“This proposal will definitely spark some discussion,” Rich McKay, president of the Atlanta Falcons and chairman of the committee, said of possibly tak­ing away review responsibilities from the refs. “We developed our system based on the last time we had replay. That’s how we devel­oped the referee to be the deci­sion maker.” 
The committee will also pro­pose expanding the overtime rule used in the postseason — both sides must have an offensive possession if the receiving team kicks a field goal to start the ex­tra period — to the regular sea­son. 
That rule, instituted in 2010, has yet to become a factor in the playoffs. 
And a player hurt in preseason or early in the schedule could be designated as able to return from injured reserve after six weeks and play after eight weeks rather than sit out the entire season. 
That would be a significant change; the previous rule was a player placed on IR must miss four games. In 1993, that was changed to the entire season be­cause teams tended to put prom­ising prospects on the list rather than having to release them. 
Until 1990, IR players had to sit out six games. 
The Steelers, who proposed the overtime alteration, also suggest­ed making a horse collar tackle on a quarterback inside the pocket a 15-yard penalty. That is the only situation where such a tackle is not penalized. 
Expansion of the defenseless player rules to protect defensive players against crackback blocks to the head area or being blocked by an opponent headfirst also is on the agenda for the spring meetings in Palm Beach, Fla., that begin Monday. Now, they are only protected against low crack-back blocks. 

NBA 
NBA 


Knicks win fifth-straight game 
Durant leads Thunder 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Ama­re Stoudemire had 21 points and nine rebounds to lead the New York Knicks to their fifth straight victory, 82-79 over the Philadelphia 76ers on Wednes­day night. 
Jeremy Lin scored 18 points and Carmelo Anthony had 10 to help the Knicks pull within three games of the Atlantic Divi­sion leaders. 
Elton Brand had 12 points and 12 rebounds for the Sixers. Jrue Holiday scored 16. 
The game ended with thou­sands of New York fans chant­ing, “Let’s go Knicks!” They had reason to celebrate after Stou­demire hit a pair of big buckets down the stretch to clinch the win. 
Each team was backed by a heavyweight A-list supporter: Co-owner Will Smith rooted on the Sixers and Spike Lee sat ad­jacent to the Knicks bench. 
This could be a crushing week for the Sixers with Boston set to visit on Friday. The Celtics are only a game back for the divi­sion lead and an automatic top-four seed in the Eastern Confer­ence playoffs. 
The Sixers shook off a mis­erable start and a double-digit hole to make a run at the Knicks in the fourth. Lou Williams, per­haps the NBA’s best sixth man, nailed a 3 that tied the game at 63-all. 
Stoudemire, though, returned the favor with a monster dunk and a loud roar that was glee­fully met with cheers by all the Knicks fans. Stoudemire hit a pull-up jumper next time down and the Knicks led by four. 
Lin followed with a runner and Lee, wearing a No. 17 jer­sey, leapt from his seat and ap­plauded as the Knicks ran his way for a timeout. 

Lin delivered from the free throw line, sinking two for an eight-point lead, then feeding Anthony for a 16-footer that gave the Knicks the breathing room they needed. Lin was 10 for 10 from the line. 
The Sixers kept coming, and nearly turned the game around in the final 2 minutes. Trailing by three, Brand blocked Lin’s shot that led to a fast-break at­tempt for Andre Iguodala. Iguo­dala missed the layup, and the 


past Griffin, Clippers 
empty possession would finish off the Sixers. 
For good measure, Iguodala shot an airball in the final min­ute. 
Meanwhile, the orange and blue took over, and chanted for the Knicks, completing a dou­ble-dose of defeat for Philadel­phia. 
The Sixers never led and trailed by as many as 12 points when they finally found a groove in the third. Thaddeus Young’s dunk pulled them within two and Iguodala buried a 3-pointer from the corner — only his third basket — for a 49-48 lead. 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Kevin Durant had 32 points and nine rebounds, Russell Westbrook added 19 points and the Okla­homa City Thunder shut down Blake Griffin and beat the Los 
Angeles  Clippers  114-91  on  
Wednesday night.  
Playing  in  his  hometown,  

Griffin was held to a career-low seven points in the rematch of a Clippers victory perhaps best remembered for his emphatic dunk over Kendrick Perkins. 
Griffin didn’t have any dunks in this one, settling mostly for long jumpers and hook shots, and went just 3 for 11 from the field. 
Randy Foye started in place of Caron Butler and scored 23 points to lead Los Angeles, which hit 37 percent on a mis­erable shooting night from in­side the 3-point line and failed to score 100 points for the eighth straight game. 
Kendrick Perkins set the tone for Griffin’s rough night with a hard foul that also drew him his league-leading 11th technical foul midway through the first quarter, and the Clip­pers’ All-Star forward never got going. 
After Oklahoma City’s lead reached its largest point at 20 late in the third quarter, the Clippers reeled off 11 straight points to prompt Thunder coach Scott Brooks to call timeout and put both of his All-Stars back in the game 90 sec­onds into the fourth quarter. 
Westbrook drove for a layup and Derek Fisher — signed just before the game after he bought out of his contract with Houston — followed a few pos­sessions later with a 3-pointer from the left side for his first basket with the Thunder dur­ing a 12-2 response that re­stored the cushion to 100-81 with 6:13 left. 
About 2 minutes later, Clip­pers coach Vinny Del Negro waved the white flag and sent in his reserves. 
Chris Paul finished with 13 points and 10 assists, and Nick Young scored 12 points in his second start with the Clippers after coming over in a trade with Washington. Los Angeles fell to 11-12 on the road this season, having lost six of its last eight. 
A night after getting out­scored 50-20 in the paint in a loss at Utah, the Thunder used a hefty advantage inside to pull out to a 66-50 lead after a high-scoring first half. 
Los Angeles eliminated one double-digit lead before Oklahoma City pulled away again with a 16-4 run mid­way through the second quar­ter that featured back-to-back 3-pointers from Lazar Hay­ward. James Harden’s 3-point­er from the left wing made it 52-39 with 6:25 left before half­time. 
Durant then converted a nifty reverse layup to start a string of eight straight points to finish the half for Oklahoma City. By that point, the Thunder held a 30-16 scoring edge in the paint. 
Los Angeles never did much in the lane, finishing with only 22 points in the paint. At one point late in the third quar­ter, the Clippers were 10 for 18 from 3-point range but only 10 for 34 from inside the arc. 
NHL 


Callahan’s overtime goal gives Rangers victory 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Ryan Callahan ripped a shot in off a goal post 
2:42 into overtime to lift the Eastern Conference-leading New York Rangers over De­troit 2-1 on Wednesday night, sending the injury-riddled Red Wings to their sixth straight loss. 
The Rangers turned up the heat in the extra session and finally got a puck past Ty Conk­lin, who was recalled from the minor leagues earlier Wednes­day because of Detroit’s injury woes. Callahan fired a shot from the slot for his 27th goal, making the New York captain a winner on his 27th birthday. 
Henrik Lundqvist made 26 saves, and Brad Richards scored in the first period for the Rangers, who lead Pitts­burgh by three points in the East. Pittsburgh has 10 games left and the Rangers have nine. 
Henrik Zetterberg gave De­troit an early 1-0 lead, and Conklin made 32 saves, but the Red Wings had to settle for just one point. Detroit, 0-4-2 in its last six, moved into sole pos­session of fourth place in the West, one point ahead of Nash­ville. 
Zetterberg’s goal led to the tossing of an octopus onto the Madison Square Garden ice, but that was the only bit of playoff feeling the Red Wings could enjoy on this night. 
Detroit is limping toward the end of the season. The Red Wings were without top defenseman Nicklas Lidstrom (ankle), forwards Darren Helm (lower body) and Johan Fran­zen (back), and goalies Joey MacDonald (back) and Jimmy Howard (groin). 
It wasn’t until noon on Wednesday that the Red Wings knew they would have Conk­lin in goal after calling him up from Grand Rapids of the AHL on an emergency basis. Conk­lin had to pass through re-en­try waivers, meaning any NHL team could have claimed him before he could rejoin Detroit. He was backed up by Jordan Pearce, who has never played in an NHL game. 
The Rangers’ power play has shown some renewed life lately, and Richards did all the work on it to get New York even at 1. 



NFL 

Goodell suspends Saints’ Payton for 2012 season 
Associated Press “I am speechless. Sean Pay-happy the league has made it 
ton is a great man, coach, and known it won’t be tolerated,” 

Meting out unprecedent-mentor. ... I need to hear an said left tackle Jordan Gross, ed punishment for a crush-explanation for this punish-Newton’s teammate on the for-cash bounty system that ment.” Carolina Panthers. “To think targeted key opposing play-The Saints now must de-that something like that ers, the NFL suspended New cide who will coach the team would happen — guys trying Orleans Saints head coach in Payton’s place — his sus-to hurt someone to make a Sean Payton without pay for pension takes effect April few extra bucks — is just ap­next season and indefinitely 1 — and who will make ros-palling. I mean we have a lot banned the team’s former ter moves while Loomis is on the line, every single one defensive coordinator, Gregg out. There was no immedi-of us. ... You don’t want to see Williams. ate word from the Saints, but anyone taken out a game.” 
Payton is the first head two candidates to take over According to the league, coach suspended by the coaching duties are defensive Saints defensive captain Jon-league for any reason, ac-coordinator Steve Spagnuolo athan Vilma offered $10,000 cused of trying to cover up and offensive coordinator to any player who knocked a system of extra cash pay-Pete Carmichael Jr. Spag-then-Vikings QB Favre out outs that NFL Commissioner nuolo has NFL head coaching of the 2010 NFC champion-Roger Goodell on Wednesday experience; Carmichael does ship game. The Saints were called “particularly unusual not, but has been with the flagged for roughing Favre and egregious” and “totally club since 2006. twice in that game, and the unacceptable.” When the NFL first made its league later said they should 
Sending a message by tak-investigation public on March have received another pen­ing a harsh stand, Goodell 2, Williams admitted to — alty for a brutal high-low hit also banned Saints general and apologized for — running from Remi Ayodele and Bobby manager Mickey Loomis for the program while in charge McCray that hurt Favre’s an-the first eight regular-season of the Saints’ defense. He was kle. He was able to finish the games next season — believed hired in January by the St. game, but the Saints won in to be the first time a GM was Louis Rams; head coach Jeff overtime en route to the fran­suspended by the NFL — and Fisher said Wednesday he’ll chise’s only Super Bowl ap­assistant coach Joe Vitt for probably use a committee of pearance. the first six games. coaches to replace Williams All payouts for specific per-
In addition, Goodell fined in 2012. formances in a game, includ­the Saints $500,000 and took Goodell will review Wil-ing interceptions or causing away their second-round liams’ status after the up-fumbles, are against NFL draft picks this year and next. coming season and decide rules. The NFL warns teams 
“We are all accountable whether he can return. against such practices before and responsible for player “I accept full responsibility each season, although in the health and safety and the in-for my actions,” Williams said aftermath of the revelations tegrity of the game. We will in a statement issued by the about the Saints, current and not tolerate conduct or a cul-Rams. “I will continue to co-former players from various ture that undermines those operate fully with the league teams talked about that sort priorities,” said Goodell, and its investigation and ... I of thing happening frequently whose league faces more will do everything possible to — although not on the same players,” Goodell said. on Rodgers, whose Packers than 20 concussion-related re-earn the respect of my col-scale as was found in New Or-The discipline for the beat the Saints in Week 1. lawsuits brought by hundreds leagues, the NFL and its play-leans. Saints’ involvement in the The league said that in ad-of former players. “No one is ers in hopes of returning to In a memo to the NFL’s 32 bounty scheme is more far-dition to contributing money above the game or the rules coaching in the future.” teams, Goodell ordered own-reaching and unforgiving to the bounty fund, Williams that govern it.” After the NFL made clear ers to make sure their clubs than what Goodell came up oversaw record-keeping, de-
According to the league, that punishments were loom-are not offering bounties now. with in 2007, when the New termined payout amounts Payton ignored instructions ing, Payton and Loomis took Each club’s principal owner England Patriots cheated by and recipients, and handed from the NFL and Saints own-the blame for violations that and head coach must certify videotaping an opponent. out envelopes with money to ership to make sure boun-they acknowledged “hap-in writing by March 30 that Goodell fined the Patriots players. The NFL said Wil­ties weren’t being paid. The pened under our watch” no pay-for-performance sys-$250,000, stripped a first-liams acknowledged he inten­league also chastised him for and said Saints owner Tom tem exists. round draft pick, and docked tionally misled NFL investi­choosing to “falsely deny that Benson “had nothing to do” Punishment for any Saints their coach, Bill Belichick, gators when first questioned the program existed,” and for with the bounty pool, which players involved will be de-$500,000 for what was known in 2010, and didn’t try to stop trying to “encourage the false reached as much as $50,000 termined later, because the as “Spygate.” the bounties. denials by instructing assis-during the season the Saints league is still reviewing the As recently as this year, Vitt was aware of the boun­tants to ‘make sure our ducks won their championship. case with the NFL Players As-Payton said he was entirely ties and, according to the are in a row.’” The NFL said the scheme sociation. unaware of the bounties — “a league, later admitted he had 
All in all, Goodell’s ruling involved 22 to 27 defensive “While I will not address claim contradicted by oth-“fabricated the truth” when is a real blow to the Saints, players; targeted opponents player conduct at this time, ers,” the league said. And ac-interviewed in 2010. a franchise that Payton and included quarterbacks Aar-I am profoundly troubled by cording to the investigation, Loomis knew of the bounty quarterback Drew Brees re-on Rodgers, Cam Newton, the fact that players — includ-Payton received an email be-allegations at least by Febru­vived and led to the 2010 Su-Brett Favre and Kurt War-ing leaders among the defen-fore the Saints’ first game in ary 2010, when he was told per Bowl title after decades ner. “Knockouts” were worth sive players — embraced this 2011 that read, “PS Greg Wil-by the league to end the prac­of such futility that fans wore $1,500 and “cart-offs” $1,000, program so enthusiastically liams put me down for $5000 tice. But the NFL said he later paper bags over their heads with payments doubled or tri-and participated with what on Rogers (sic).” When Payton admitted he didn’t do enough at home games. pled for the playoffs. appears to have been a de-was shown that email by NFL to determine if there were 
Brees reacted quickly to “The bounty thing is com-liberate lack of concern for investigators, he acknowl-bounties or to try to stop the news on Twitter, writing: pletely unprofessional. I’m the well-being of their fellow edged it referred to a bounty them. 

PGA 

Woods ready to take on field at Arnold Palmer Invite 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — From the fairway on the par-5 sixth hole at Bay Hill, caddie Joe LaCava looked back toward the tee box in time to see Tiger Woods stop suddenly in the middle of his swing. 
“What’s going on?” LaCava said, peering into the sun. 
He could see Woods flexing his right knee as he paced be­hind the ball, rubbing his lower back and stretching. Standing over the ball again, Woods let go of the driver before finish­ing his swing, although the ball wound up in the middle of the fairway. 
Was it the left Achilles tendon again? His rebuilt knee? Some­thing else? 
The concern didn’t last long. 
Turns out it was a camera click that made Woods flinch. 
“I guess one of the so-called professional photographers took a picture right in the mid­dle of my downswing,” Woods said. “I stopped it, and then felt a pretty good twinge in my back. Walked it off and then tried to hit one down there. Hit it in the fairway, but didn’t feel very good. But after a couple of holes, it loosened up. And I’m good to go now.” 
That was the message Woods preached Wednesday on the eve of the Arnold Palmer Invitation­al, his last tournament before the Masters begins on April 5, when he resumes his pursuit of Jack Nicklaus in the majors. 
He feels good enough to play golf as many as eight days in a row. Woods revealed that his week started with a trip to Au­gusta National on Sunday, fol­lowed by a two-day exhibition at Lake Nona, the pro-am at Bay Hill and then four days of the Arnold Palmer Invitational. 
Even so, his health figures to be a big topic in the two weeks leading to the Masters. 
In his last official tourna­ment, Woods played 11 holes in the final round at Doral before he withdrew because of tight­ness in the left Achilles tendon, the same one that forced him to miss two majors last year. 
“I’ve had tightness before, but not to that extent,” Woods said. “But treatment afterwards al­ways get it right back to where it should be. And that’s one of the reasons why I wasn’t really that concerned about it, that I would come back and play these events.” 
Could it happen again? 
“It could,” Woods said. “But hopefully, it won’t.” 
Palmer was happy to see Woods at his tournament — he has never missed Bay Hill ex­cept for when he was returning from the crisis in his personal life in 2010. He, too, is curious about the Masters. Both are four-time champions. 
“I think that to win, you have to be on top of your game at Augusta, and there’s no ques­tion about that,” Palmer said. “And so Tiger will have to be. Does it make it more likely that he’ll win there? Only in that he will probably work very hard to get his game ... in shape to win. There’s certainly that possibil­ity. Will he win? I don’t know.” 

MEN’S SWIMMING 

Bass, Dyer to compete in championships 
Observer Staff Report 
Many spring sports have just gotten into the swing of a season, but for one team, the next few days lead to the end. The Irish have spent months preparing for the NCAA championships and now two members of the team will travel to the Weyerhaeuser King County Aquatic Center in Feder­al Way, Wash., to compete among 235 total swimmers. 
This year marks the first time in program history that Notre Dame sends two swimmers to the champi­onships. Junior Bill Bass will compete in the 200­yard individual medley and 100- and 200-yard butter­fly. Sophomore Frank Dyer will compete in the 100-yard freestyle, 200-yard freestyle and 500-yard freestyle. 
For his first career trip to the NCAAs, Bass stands ranked in three events. His qualifying time in the 200­yard individual medley puts him in a tie for 13th place entering the championships at 1:44.81. He also holds the 24th best time in the 200­yard butterfly at 1:45.60 and the 26th best in the 100-yard butterfly at 47.03. 
Dyer stands ranked third nationally in the 200-yard 

Doyle 
continued from page 20 
quarter, tying the game. Both teams went on to exchange goals in the final minutes of the quarter. 
Irish senior attack Sean Rog­ers put the Irish ahead late in the second quarter with his team-leading eighth goal of the season to send Notre Dame into halftime with a 3-2 lead. 
Notre Dame started the sec­ond half aggressively as senior midfielder and co-captain Max Pfeifer netted two goals in the third quarter. Ohio State an­swered with two goals, but it could not keep up as Irish ju­nior midfielder Pat Cotter gave the Irish a 6-4 lead with just over one minute remaining in the quarter. 
Notre Dame extended its lead to 7-4 to open the fourth quar­ter. Ohio State scored back-to­back goals to cut the Irish lead down to 7-6, but its rally fell short. With 2:15 remaining, Notre Dame sophomore mid­fielder Liam O’Connor scored after a face-off win to ensure the Irish victory. 
A final Ohio State goal with 19 seconds remaining in the game was not enough to com­plete the Buckeye comeback, and the Irish escaped with an 8-7 win in Columbus. 
“It was a hard-fought [game]. Literally, until a few seconds left in the game, Ohio State did a great job coming back down the stretch, and they definitely made it difficult for us,” Rog­ers said. “It was a quick turn­around from the weekend, but I’m glad we just played hard for the whole game to get the win.” 
Cotter’s goal marked his first of the season, while goals from freestyle. With only 200 yards of distance, his quali­fying time of 1:33.71 is a fraction of a second behind Louisville’s Joao De Lucca’s 1:33.44, the number one swimmer in the event. His qualifying time in the 500­yard freestyle puts him at 16th place with a time of 
4:18.50. His two events make him the first Notre Dame swimmer to qualify for mul­tiple races in the NCAAs. Dyer also holds a national rank in the 100-yard free­style, in which he has the 21st best time at 43.22. 
Bass and Dyer have not competed since Feb. 18, when the Irish won the Big East title. Bass won Most Outstanding Swimmer at the Big East championships as well. 
The swimmers hope to continue taking high stand­ings, following the lead set by freshman Nick Nemetz, who placed 12th in the NCAA zone diving championships March 9. 
Competition begins today at 2 p.m. with the 200-yard freestyle trials. The after­noon will also hold trials for the 500-yard freestyle, 200­yard individual medley, 50­yard freestyle and 400-yard medley relay, with finals fol­lowing later in the evening. 
O’Connor, junior defenseman Tyler Andersen and sophomore midfielder Tyler Brenneman were the first of their careers. 
Corrigan said several players stepped up against the Buck­eyes, helping the Irish keep their winning streak alive. 
“I think [we figured out that] there are a lot of ways to win,” he said. “We got a goal from a long-stick, a goal from a face-off man [and] three midfielders contributed. It wasn’t our best day, but we found a way to win, and there’s a lot to be said for that.” 
Notre Dame junior goaltender John Kemp recorded 17 saves. The Irish converted eight of 21 shot attempts, while collecting just seven of 19 face-offs. 
Corrigan said Notre Dame’s defense deserves credit for keeping control of the game, despite an Irish squad that could not find a rhythm offen­sively. 
“Great play by the defense and our goalie John Kemp, who were forced to play good de­fense because we didn’t have a good day offensively and we didn’t get ground balls,” he said. 
Corrigan said the Irish will take today off in order to rest before they face Rutgers this weekend. 
Preparation will consist of watching film and studying the Scarlet Knights’ system. 
“We need to go back and ba­sically mentally fix stuff and work through the mistakes we’ve made the last few week­ends,” Rogers said. 
The Irish return to action Sunday, when they play host to Rutgers at Arlotta Stadium at 1 p.m. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
NFL 
Jets finally land Tebow 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Tim Tebow is coming to New York. Re­ally. 
After a big false start, the New York Jets pulled off a Tebow-like comeback Wednesday night, getting the quarterback who turned the Denver Broncos from an also-ran into a playoff team last season and became the NFL’s most talked-about player — for a fourth- and sixth-round draft pick. 
Now, Tebowmania is open­ing on Broadway. 
Eight hours after initially agreeing to a deal, the teams completed the trade that was hung up when the Jets ap­parently balked at repaying Denver more than $5 mil­lion for a salary advance due Tebow. ESPN reported that the two sides had agreed to split that cost. 
Despite ultimately pulling off the deal for Tebow, it’s just another bizarre moment for the Jets, a team that has had its share of them over the years, conjuring memo­ries of Bill Belichick’s hiring as coach and his resignation one day later. 
Just a few weeks after “Linsanity” swept the area and the rest of the NBA with the Knicks’ sensational Jer­emy Lin, “Timsanity” now will take over New York. 
“You’ve got a tough player on the field, a leader in the locker room and a guy who shares the faith that I share,” Jets defensive end Mike De-Vito said. “So, I’m very grate­ful to have him on our team, and I feel it’s going to really benefit us as a whole.” 
But not everyone’s a fan. 
Another teammate, cor­nerback Antonio Cromartie, took to Twitter on Wednes­day to express his confidence in Sanchez and the offense as structured before the deal. 
“Y bring Tebow in when we need to bring in more Weap­ons for (at)Mark_Sanchez,” Cromartie tweeted. “Let’s build the team around him. We already signed to 3 year ext.” 
The Jets signed Drew Stan­ton last week to be their No. 2 quarterback, ahead of Greg McElroy, the team’s seventh-round draft pick last year. General manager Mike Tannenbaum said Tuesday that he was confident in the trio, but added: “I’ll give you my standard answer, which is you never know if other opportunities present them­selves. We’ll always look at it. That’s the standard line there, but we feel good about Greg, Drew and Mark, and see where we go from there.” 
And that led them to Tebow. 
But Hall of Fame quarter­back Joe Namath, who led the Jets to their only Super Bowl title in 1969, was also among those unhappy. 
“I’m just sorry that I can’t agree with this situation. I think it’s just a public­ity stunt. I can’t go with it. I think it’s wrong,” Namath told 1050 ESPN Radio on Wednesday. “I don’t think they know what they’re do­ing over there.” 
The effect Tebow’s pres­ence will have on Sanchez remains to be seen. The Jets appear to be committed to him financially as their starter for at least the next two years, but a restless fan base that got down on San­chez as he struggled late last season could call for Tebow to take over at the first sign of trouble. 
Two minutes after the Jets initially posted the trade on its Facebook page, there were 874 “likes,” 366 com­ments and 247 shares. Most of the comments ran along the lines of: “I might cry” and “He is not welcome here, another terrible decision.” 
The Jets certainly will have lots of explaining to do: Where was the misunder­standing? Who didn’t read the fine print? Why did the Jets announce the trade on its site and Facebook page before it was completely done? 
Sure, they got headlines and were the talk of sports radio — even on a day when the New Orleans Saints re­ceived unprecedented pun­ishment from the NFL for a bounty system that rocked the football world. Head coach Sean Payton was sus­pended without pay for next season, and former defensive coordinator Gregg Williams, now with St. Louis, was banned indefinitely. 
But even all that couldn’t overshadow another embar­rassing episode for a fran­chise that has had to explain away several missteps in re­cent years. 
The Jets are hoping Tebow can help change all that. 
Tebow led the Broncos to the playoffs last season 
— along the way beating Sanchez and the Jets, who missed the postseason. But Denver executive John Elway believed Manning gave the team a better chance at win­ning a championship now. 
For the Jets, Tebow adds a unique dimension to the of­fense, including running the team’s wildcat package — something new offensive co­ordinator Tony Sparano en­joys using. He also provides a solid presence in a locker room that was rife with in­fighting last season — par­ticularly between Sanchez and wide receiver Santonio Holmes. 
He also brings with him a flock of fervent fans for rea­sons that have to do as much with his faith as his football skills. A devout Christian, he’s been a role model since his days at Florida, when he led the Gators to two na­tional titles and captured the Heisman Trophy. 
Denver started shopping Tebow after signing Peyton Manning, and the Jets were considered a long shot as late as Tuesday night. But New York went hard after Tebow, envisioning him as a versatile complement to starter Mark Sanchez, who received a $40.5 million con­tract extension, with $20.5 million guaranteed, earlier this month. The Jets also had pursued Manning, but fell out of that race early when there wasn’t mutual interest. 


petitive from the start, even since I was eight-years-old. I 
Spring 
without fully-padded contact. can play it in my sleep. I was “You could do everything trying to enhance my skills continued from page 24 but hit,” the 2011 second-team and I never felt like me moving 
All-American said. “Guys were to wide receiver ever hindered spurned a likely first-round going after the ball, going to my skills … It was just one skill selection in the NFL Draft to pick off the ball. Receivers are I had to develop.” return for his senior season. going up for the ball. We un-Kelly spent most of his time Te’o heads a defense that re-derstand that we can’t put our developing the four quarter-turns six starters from last teammates in dangerous situ-backs fighting for the starting season’s finale against Florida ations but everybody was com-job. Sophomore Tommy Rees, State, but suffered heavy loss-peting out there.” the incumbent starter, took es in the secondary, including Due to Notre Dame’s depth reps with the first team, while the graduation of cornerbacks at linebacker, 6-foot-7 fresh-early enrollee Gunner Kiel, Gary Gray and Robert Blanton man Troy Niklas moved from wearing a red No. 1 jersey, de­and captain and safety Harri-linebacker to tight end to com-buted in his first practice with son Smith. plement athletic junior Tyler the Irish. 
With the departure of high-Eifert with a physical presence Kelly said the performance ly-touted early enrollee Tee along the line. and improvement of freshman Shepard from the university, Meanwhile, junior Theo receiver DaVaris Daniels im­sophomore cornerbacks Lo Riddick returned to his origi-pressed him the most. Wood and Bennett Jackson nal running back position “He showed up. It’s the first took reps with the first team amid the absence of freshman day and I am not ready to defense, along with freshman transfer Amir Carlisle due to anoint him as the next Michael defensive ends Stephon Tuitt a broken ankle. Riddick, who Floyd,” Kelly said. “He still and Aaron Lynch. spent the previous two sea-has a long way to go but he’s 
“It’s always a confidence is-sons as a slot receiver, said extremely athletic so we are sue [with young players],” Te’o the move came immediately looking for his ability to trans­6-4. Despite the loss, Louder-
said. “You come to college following the Champs Sports late that and I saw that a little 
Irish 
back said Mathews fought a 
and people are bigger, faster, Bowl loss to Florida State, but bit today.” hard battle. 

stronger but at the end of the the lessons learned at the posi-The Irish continue their continued from page 24 “Mathews lost in the third 
day, it’s still football. I think tion added an extra skillset to spring schedule with practice but played really well,” he said. 

once they understand that, the versatile speedster. 8 a.m. Friday. at No. 6 for freshman Katherine “Sanders also had a good game. 
they’ll be fine.” “[Playing running back] is White, but Sanders was able to But other than that we just 
Te’o described the opening completely natural,” Riddick Contact Andrew Gastelum at even the singles count with a didn’t compete well or make 
practice as intense and com-said. “I have been playing it agastel1@nd.edu 6-2, 7-6 (4) victory at No. 4, giv-enough balls.” ing the Irish a 2-1 lead overall. Going forward, Louderback That was the last time Notre said, the Irish will try to tighten Dame led, as it dropped the next their play and decrease errors three matches in rapid succes-as they return home for a three­sion. Louderback attributed the game homestand against Mar-series of straight-set losses to quette, DePaul and Northwest-errors. ern. With a quick turnaround 
“It was disappointing that before Marquette on Sunday, we just made a lot of errors,” Louderback said he hopes his he said. “Not everyone did, but squad can put up more of a fight most of the kids made a lot of er-against the Golden Eagles. rors today. We just weren’t real-“We really haven’t seen [Mar­ly good. It was not a long match. quette] this year so we don’t Usually we’re really good about know a whole lot about them. finding a lot of balls and usually We know they have a lot of new we can make it a long match but kids from last year,” he said. today we just made a lot of er-“We’ll do okay hopefully and rors. We just didn’t make the hopefully we’ll compete better match long enough.” against them on Sunday.” 
The only three-set match Notre Dame gets back in ac-of the day came from No. 49 tion against Marquette on Sun-Mathews, who dropped the first day at noon at the Eck Tennis set 6-1 to No. 10 Bektas before Pavilion. coming back with a 6-4 second set win to push the match to a Contact Kelsey Manning at      third, in which Bektas prevailed kmannin3@nd.edu 
and seventh innings, respec-
DeSico 

tively. However, the Irish left 12 men on base and hit into continued from page 24 four double plays. Aoki said 
the Irish could have done the lead in the fourth inning more to take advantage of when he hit a two-run RBI the Mastodon pitchers, who single, scoring junior center issued 10 walks. fielder Charlie Markson and “I think to a certain extent 
we can to prepare our guys. spoil Notre Dame’s chances McMurray. In the seventh we could have done a little 
Bednarski 

We’re in meetings all day to repeat, along with the Ivy inning, he added his fourth bit better job there, but for 
talking about it, but a lot of League duo of Harvard and and fifth RBI of the game, a the most part I think we did 
continued from page 24 it has to come from them and Princeton. But the greatest career-high. [well],” Aoki said. “We put 
our team leaders.” competition may come from “I thought [DeSico] was up some quality at-bats, I 
Enzo Catellani and junior Notre Dame was one of five the Red Storm, who field an big. He got that RBI that put think we hit some balls hard 
epeeist James Kaull bring schools to qualify the maxi-extremely talented and expe­us up and end up putting us at people, like the double 
valuable experience to the mum 12 fencers for the event, rienced team, Bednarski said. up for good —that was a big play that [freshman right 
squad, as they are making joining St. John’s, Princeton, “There will be many great one,” Aoki said. “We had had fielder] Ryan Bull ran into 
their third appearance in the Harvard and Ohio State. It teams there, but St. John’s some opportunities with two while we were running on 
NCAA championships. is the fifth consecutive year really stands out,” he said. outs to get some RBIs, which the play.” 
“We’ll rely on [Catellani the Irish have qualified the “It’s a team that is really built we hadn’t converted, and Aoki said the four double 
and Kaull] both for their play maximum number. However, for this type of competition. him punching that through plays turned by IPFW were 
and for their influence and one of the last times the team They’ll be tough to beat.” the infield I thought was a mostly unavoidable. 
advice to the other fencers,” failed to do so, it won the In the end, how far the Irish really, really big moment in “The first one was pre-
Bednarski said. “We have a 2005 national championship. go will be determined by how the game.” ventable — Conor [Biggio] 
very inexperienced team, but Bednarski has used this ex-fast the squad’s young fenc-DeSico attributed his per-shouldn’t have been run-
we are confident that they ample to show his team that ers grow up, Bednarski said. formance to his typical atti-ning on that ball that Frank 
can lead us.” having greater numbers does The team has spent an entire tude and help from his team-[DeSico] lined out to the 
The NCAA championships not guarantee success. year maturing, but there is no mates. third baseman,” Aoki said. 
use a five-touch bout format “I think our performance substitute for the crucible of “I just played like I try to “But the other ones, you just 
as opposed to the normal in 2005 really shows that championship competition. play every day,” Desico said. chalk it up to baseball. If 
15-touch format of the regu-any team can take it, regard-“It is a very high-pressure “I come out here and I try we can start putting balls 
lar season, which puts a pre-less of the number of fenc-environment and it will not to do as best I can, give a exactly where we want to 
mium on making adjustments ers they qualify,” Bednarski be easy,” he said. “Not for hundred percent and I have off the bat then we’re pret­
early in bouts, something in-said. “This year, I think Penn the coaches and not for the confidence in the guys that ty much undefeated at this 
experienced fencers often State really fits in that cate-fencers. But if this team can they’re going to do the same. point.” 
struggle with. gory, having only qualified 11 promise anything, it is that We’ve been playing really The Irish will play their 
“This competition is very [fencers].  They’re extremely we will fight.” well, so there’s not much first Big East game of the 
special because of its format. dangerous though, and it’s The NCAA championships more I can say.” season when they take on 
It’s the type of thing where always a big fight with them. begin Thursday and last Notre Dame also scored in Pittsburgh at home at 5:35 
you can get down early and It’s a very natural rivalry for through Sunday in Columbus, the fifth inning on an error p.m. Friday. 
before you have the chance to us.” Ohio. and sophomore third base-
make an adjustment, you’ve Bednarski said Ohio State, man Eric Jagielo and Biggio Contact Vicky Jacobsen at 
already lost,” Bednarski while competing at home, Contact Conor Kelly at knocked in runs in the fourth vjacobse@nd.edu 
said. “We’re doing everything is another team that could ckelly17@nd.edu 




WILL SHORTz 
EUgENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 



JON REPINE 
HENRy ARNOLD 
EXPND 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARgIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Thursday, March 22, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Springing into action 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Associate Sports Editor 
With a steady mixture of familiar faces and position changes that Irish coach Brian Kelly referred to as a blend of “continuity and change,” Notre Dame kicked off its spring prac­tice schedule on a sun-splashed Wednesday morning. 
“What I really liked today was the enthusiasm that we had,” Kelly said. “You go into your third year and you try to balance continuity and change because it is important that continuity is part of what you do. But change brings some­times an energy and an enthu­siasm. 
“So in day one of spring, [there was] great effort, great enthu­siasm. Veterans looked like vet­erans, young guys looked like young guys, and now we are off and running where we now can start to build our football team and get everyone looking the same.” 
One of those veterans is ju-
TOM LA/The Observer 
nior linebacker Manti Te’o, who 

Irish coach Brian Kelly speaks to his players before practice in the Loftus Sports see SPRING/page 22 Center last spring. Notre Dame kicked off its spring practice schedule Wednesday. 

FENCING 
Team aims for second straight title 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After a year of preparation, an inexperienced but deter­mined Irish squad will finally have the chance to defend its 2011 national title when the NCAA championships begin Thursday in Columbus, Ohio. 
Notre Dame will send only three fencers with NCAA championship experience to Columbus and will rely on nine first-timers to contribute. 
“Our fencers are very good, but it is a very young team,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “To have nine fencers competing in the NCAA finals for the first time is very diffi­cult. Especially in this event, experience is so key.” 
Bednarski said senior foilist 
see BEDNARSKI/page 22 

BASEBALL 
Veerkamp allows single run in win over IPFW 
By VICKY JACOBSEN right-hander soon regained “I think he started to trust soon as he gets in, he’s just The Irish (12-7) tied the Sports Writer control of his pitches and his stuff a little bit and get comfortable to attack the game in the second inning 
the game, putting the Irish back into the strike zone, hitters.” when IPFW junior pitcher 

When Irish junior pitcher back on track for an 8-1 vic-pitch a little bit more to con-The Mastodons (4-14) Daniel Tursell walked fresh-Patrick Veerkamp hit visit-tory. tact. I think that was impor-didn’t catch a break when man shortstop Jason McMur­ing IPFW’s leadoff man with Veerkamp allowed one tant for him,” Irish coach Veerkamp left the game, as ray, then gave up consecu­a pitch, walked the second more walk and four more Mik Aoki said. “Sometimes freshmen Matt Ternowchek tive singles to freshman left batter and gave up a sin-hits, but didn’t give up an-with Patrick, I think it just and Cristian Torres, senior fielder Conor Biggio and ju­gle to the Mastodons’ third other run in five innings of takes him a little bit of time Joe Spano and sophomore nior second baseman Frank hitter, it looked like Notre work, which earned him his to settle into a game, so Dan Slania combined to DeSico. DeSico gave the Irish Dame was in for a rough second win of the season that’s one of the things hope-close out the game with four night on the mound. But the and lowered his ERA to 2.77. fully we can work on, where scoreless innings. see DeSICO/page 22 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Wolverines end Notre Dame’s winning streak 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
After a successful three-match jaunt in Hawaii featur­ing a marathon win over then-No. 20 Texas Tech, the No. 17 Irish returned to the mainland Wednesday only to be defeated by the new No. 20 — rival Mich­igan. 
The high point of the con­test for Notre Dame (12-5) was its doubles play, with No. 2 sophomores Julie Sabacinski and Britney Sanders and No. 3 sophomore Jennifer Kellner and junior Chrissie McGaffigan both notching 8-6 victories to nab the doubles point for the Irish. Despite the nationally-ranked No. 1 doubles pair of senior captains Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews falling to the No. 7 duo of sophomore Brooke Bolender and freshman Emina Bektas, Irish coach Jay Louder-back said the doubles portion of the match got Notre Dame off to a good start against the Wolver­ines (8-5). 
“Both the two and the three got us in a good position for the match,” he said. “Both played really well, served well and the last couple games of both matches we hit a lot of first serves. They played really well, it just boils down to that.” 
But once singles play got un­derway, Louderback said the Irish were for the most part plagued with errors in what turned out to be a very quick contest. Notre Dame began the singles portion with a quick loss 
see IRISH/page 22 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish capture road victory 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Three days after a triple-overtime victory over Denver, No. 6 Notre Dame extended its winning streak to four games with an 8-7 win at Ohio State on Wednesday. 
After opening the season with three consecutive wins, the Buckeyes (3-5) have now lost five straight. 
The fatigued Irish (5-1) nev­er found an offensive rhythm Wednesday, relying primarily on the defense for their fifth win. 
“This was a really good win because we just gutted this one out,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “We were a little bit tired physically and mentally, and Ohio State played very well. We gutted this one out and found a way to win.” 
Less than five minutes into play, Irish freshman attack The Buckeyes responded Conor Doyle scored his third midway through the first goal of the season to put Notre Dame on the board. see DOYLE/page 20 





