
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Conference discusses diversity 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
The Mendoza College of Business kicks off its fifth-annual diversity conference this weekend in hopes of ex­ploring diversity found in the workplace. 
Graduate student Jay Xie, co-chair of the conference, said the event is geared to­ward building awareness of diversity both on campus and in the business world. 
“We want to look at what diversity means in the global environment,” Xie said. “With the information and technol­ogy we have, the market is moving at a quick rate and organizations have to make decisions quickly. We want to see how diversity plays a part in these decisions.” 
Several companies will participate this weekend, in­cluding Ernst & Young, Coca-Cola, Bank of America and Deloitte. 
“Diversity is a really impor­tant issue for the participat­ing companies,” Xie said. “A lot of these companies want to talk about the success and challenges they face by work­ing with a diverse employee base.” 

see DIVERSITY/page 3 


Video inspires solidarity 
Loyola University of Chicago joins the 4 to 5 Movement 

By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 
On Feb. 28, the 4 to 5 Move­ment, a student group push­ing for inclusion of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) rights at Notre Dame released the “It Needs to Get Better” video in the midst of a push for the Uni­versity to officially recognize a gay-straight alliance and in­clude sexual orientation in its non-discrimination clause. 
But the support for LGBTQ inclusion at Notre Dame is not limited to the University’s cam­pus, sophomore Alex Coccia, a leader of the 4 to 5 Movement, said. (Editor’s Note: Coccia is a Viewpoint columnist for The Observer.) 
Within 24 hours of the video’s release, members of Loyola University of Chicago’s student government had con­tacted him about a display of solidarity, and on March 20, Loyola Chicago’s Unified Stu­dent Government Association (USGA) passed the “It Needs to Get Better” Act, a demon­stration of support for the 4 to 5 Movement and the LGBTQ community at Notre Dame. 

According to the act, the USGA stands “now and forever in solidarity” with the LGBTQ community at Notre Dame in support of an inclusive non­discrimination clause and the formation of a University-rec­ognized gay-straight alliance. 
The act finds the Notre Dame administration would be “flouting the reigning mor­al culture of our day and our shared Catholic heritage” if it were to not allow for such 


SMC Theatre opens spring show 
By MEAGHAN DALY 
News Writer 
With a production adver­tised as “Not suitable for chil­dren, mothers, or the faint of heart,” the Saint Mary’s Col­lege Theatre Program’s spring production will be the bally­hoo burlesque women’s trans­lation of “Lysistrata.” 
Mark Abram-Copenhaver, Saint Mary’s College theatre professor, said “Lysistrata” is a comedic account of one wom­an’s determination to bring an end to the Peloponnesian War. 
“It is a combination of bur­lesque, circus, ‘Looney Tunes,’ and stand-up comedy,” he said. 
Abram-Copenhaver said the piece was written by Aristo­phanes and was originally per­formed in ancient Greece. The 


see LYSISTRATA/page 7 
Archbishop discusses Second Vatican Council 
By CHRISTIAN MEYERS 
News Writer 
Thursday afternoon, Archbishop Jean-Louis Bruguès, secretary of the Congregation for Catholic Education, gave the sev­enth annual Terrence R. Keeley Vatican lecture, “The Second Vatican Coun­cil ahead of us,” in the Eck Visitor Center. 
Director of the Nanovic Institute A. James Mc­Adams said organization sponsors the lecture to strengthen the relation­ship between Notre Dame and the Vatican. 
Bruguès said the Sec­ond Vatican Council has been a central force in the Church since its inception and still impacts Catholi­cism worldwide. 
“General [Charles] de Gaulle once said he con­sidered the Second Vati­can Council the most important event of the century, but that century is not over,” Bruguès said. “The effects of the Second Vatican Council can only be appreciated using long-range binoculars.” 
It is important for Cath­olics to maintain the per­ception of the Second Vatican Council as a guid­ing force for the modern 
see VATICAN/page 7 


changes. 
Russell Gonzalez, senior senator and chair of the Con­stitutional Review Board at Loyola Chicago, said the group passed the act to show a school with a similar faith-based mis­sion to Notre Dame has been able to successfully integrate a gay-straight alliance and an inclusive non-discrimination clause. 
“We hope that the adminis­tration of [Notre Dame] takes notice that other Catholic uni­versities have achieved a bal­ance between faith and stu­dent experience such that no one needs to feel excluded,” he said. 
A Jesuit Catholic university, Loyola Chicago has both an inclusive non-discrimination 
see MOVEMENT/page 6 



Student publishes novels 
By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
The past few months brought major stepping-stones toward second-year graduate student Betsy Cornwell’s dream of be­
coming a published author. 
Cornwell, who is seek­ing her mas­ter’s degree in creative writing, re­cently sold two chil­dren’s nov­els, “Tides” and “Me­cha n ica,” to Clarion Books, an 
imprint of Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. 
“I think I’ve always wanted to be a writer,” Cornwell said. “When I was little, I was pretty shy and introverted, and I read books all the time and it was re­ally important to me. Now I like the idea of writing books for kids who really rely on books the same way that I did.” 
Cornwell said she sent cover letters to literary agents during the 2010-2011 school year and 
see BOOK/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER DSLC closes with women’s activist page 3 u Viewpoint page 10 u Spy Spoofs play at DePac page 12 u Men’s lacrosse to take on Rutgets page 24 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK THE NAME OF JK ROWLING’S NEW BOOK WILL BE? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Nicole Toczauer Matthew DeFranks Jillian Barwick Megan Finneran Graphics Mike Monaco Marina Kozak Scene Photo Kevin Noonan Kirby McKenna Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 69 LOW 55 


Genaro Andazola  David Abadin  Jeff McLean  Becky Sees  Steve Sheridan  Elizabeth Argue  
freshman  freshman  sophomore  senior  senior  sophomore  
Dillon  Keough  Keough  Lewis  Zahm  Breen-Phillips  
“Harry Potter  “Harry Potter at  “Vampire  “Father Pete  “Harry Potter  “The Life and  
Junior and  McGlinn Fields.”  Werewolf  and the Vatican  and the Fertile  Loves of Dean  
the Return of  Teenage Dream.”  Stone.”  Turtle: What’s  Thomas.”  
Voldemort.”  the Worst That  
Could Happen?”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
United States Navy supports research on ‘robojellyfish’ 
DALLAS — Researchers at Virginia Tech, the Univ. of Texas at Dallas and several other schools are working  to develop robotic jellyfish pow­ered by sea water. 
The “Robojelly” mimic the movement of jellyfish, us­ing a combination of oxygen and hydrogen gases to con­tract its “muscles,” or “na­no-platinum catalyst-coated multi-wall carbon nanotube sheets, wrapped on the sur­face of nickel — titanium shape memory alloy,” ac­cording to an abstract in the April issue of Smart Materi­als and Structures. 
“To our knowledge, this is the first successful powering of an underwater robot us­ing external hydrogen as a fuel source,” Yonas Tadesse, one of the project’s lead re­searchers said. 

The U.S. Navy’s Office of Naval Research is funding the development of the ve­hicle. Scientists hope the Ro­bojelly could be used for un­derwater rescue operations. 
Norway accidentally displays private taxpayer information 
OSLO, Norway — A 36-year-old business consul­tant became Norway’s best known taxpayer this week after the government ac­cidentally displayed his re­cords to everyone who logged onto its tax website. 
Kenneth Belcovski’s name is on every Norwegian tax­payer’s lips this week after a glitch on the Norwegian gov­ernment’s 2011 tax website redirected people logging on to a page detailing Belcovs­ki’s tax details. 
Belcovski’s social security number, earnings, mortgage payments and the kinds of other juicy details that will have identity thieves rubbing their hands together were on display. 
Belcovski is now known among Norway’s five million inhabitants. 
“Today we are all Ken­neth,” has become a popular catchprase. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Inspector Clousseau meets James Bond in the retro spoof spy film “OSS 117: Cai­ro, Nest of Spies.” The movie will be playing tonight in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 6:30 p.m. Tickets cost $3 for students. 
The Program of Arabic Language and Culture will host Arabic Culture Night at 6:30 p.m. in the Men­doza College of Business. The event features music, dance and other cultural art forms highlighting the the language and history of the region. 
The Center for Under­graduate Scholarly Engage­ment will present “Show Some Skin: The Race Mono­logues” at 7:30 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library. Speak­ers will share their stories about race and ethnicity in the Notre Dame community. 
The SUB Movie “Sherlock Holmes — A Game of Shad­ows” will play tonight in Room 101 of DeBartolo Hall at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Tickets cost $3 for students. 
Support runners in the Notre Dame Holy Half Marathon tomorrow. The campus-wide event begins at 9 a.m. on the Irish Green, just south of the Debartolo Performing Arts Center and continues all day. This year’s Holy Half donations will benefit Hope Ministries, the St. Joseph County Library and the Literacy Council of North Central Indiana. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 









HIGH 71 LOW 50 
HIGH 63 LOW 42 
HIGH 60 LOW 53 
HIGH 60 LOW 53 


Diversity 
continued from page 1 
Xie said the conference would allow these companies to strengthen their connec­tion with Notre Dame stu­dents. 
“They are coming here to hopefully establish a deeper relationship with us,” he said. “A lot of these companies are actively recruiting or consid­ering recruiting on campus.” 
Based on the success of the conference in its previous four years, Xie said he hopes it continues to generate dia­logue among professionals, faculty and students. 
“We want a wide array of people to be able to share their experiences,” he said. “But I think the ones that will get the most out of it will be students.” 
Xie said the conference would help Notre Dame stu­dents understand the benefits of employees and co-workers from a multitude of back­grounds. 
“I think students would take away from this confer­ence a greater appreciation for what diversity offers in the workplace,” he said. 
Although the diversity con­ference is hosted by the Col­lege of Business, Xie said the event is designed for students of all majors. 
“The undergraduate popu­lation can get the most from this conference,” he said. “I think when these conferences pop up, they are really good opportunities for all students to learn from the experts, build up their network and find opportunities.” 
The conference will com­mence Friday at 1 p.m. in the Mendoza College of Business and a closing address will be held Saturday at 3:15 in the Jordan Auditorium of the College. 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 

DSLC closes with women’s activist 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 

To conclude the Saint Mary’s Diverse Leadership Conference (DSLC) on March 21, Zainab Salbi, co-founder of the non-profit organization Women for Women, addressed the Saint Mary’s community about her experience as an advocate for women’s rights in the war-torn Middle East. 
“Twenty years ago I em­barked on a journey,” Salbi said. “I knew I would dedicate my life to changing the world, and I knew I would change the lives of women. Along my jour­ney I learned many important lessons that have allowed me to not only help others but also help myself.” 
Speaking in Carroll Audi­torium on Wednesday eve­ning, Salbi said women should band together to encourage new ideas and should never degrade the opinions of their peers. 
“It is time for women to unite,” she said. “It is time for women to echo each other and roar in one voice. Women must have the audacity to be pro­active with articulating what we want and how we want to be defined in this world.” 
Women must respect each other to truly effect change, Salbi said. 
“If I have any judgment of a woman inside the silence of my heart she will feel it and it will affect her,” she said. “The most important thing we can give a vulnerable woman is respect.” 
Salbi said her journey to end injustice included embracing herself for who she is. 
“Going to different war zones was not the hardest journey for me,” Salbi said. “My hardest journey was to save myself and find the peace within my own heart.” 
She said she always advised other women to share their stories, but was hesitant to talk about her own. 
“For many years I encour­aged other women to speak out and tell others their true stories and hardships,” Salbi said. “It was easy for me to tell other women’s stories, but not my own.” 
With some encourage­ment from her publisher and women she interviewed from war-torn areas, Salbi said she chose to share her story with the world.
 “I felt as though I had too much honor and pride to say that I had been raped and was in an arranged marriage, but once I came clean and told the world, I felt as though a bur­den was lifted off of me,” she said. “I learned it is our indi­vidual responsibility to break the silence.” 
Salbi said sharing her story was a part of her healing pro­cess, but to truly heal, she had to change her cynical percep­tion of men. 
“There are really good men out there in the world,” she said. “We must not corner men. We must collaborate with them. We have to reach and work alongside men or there will be no transforma­tion.” 
Salbi said women’s activ­ists should make an effort to spread joy through their work. 
“It is our presence that is part of our work,” she said. “We must work to transform the world with joy. We must smile. We must dance. Dance when you have torn the ban­dage off. Dance in the middle of the battlefield. Dance in your blood. Dance and be free with joy.” 
College president Carol Mooney said Salbi’s lessons encapsulate the true essence of a Saint Mary’s education, and these lessons will have a lasting impact on members of the audience. 
“She did a remarkable thing tonight,” Mooney said. “She bore her soul in public, in a way that has the power to move other people. I believe she will leave a lasting impact on anyone that spends just one hour with her.” 
To end her talk, Salbi en­couraged members of the au­dience to start their own life journey. 
“As you embark on your journey I encourage you to tell, live and be your truth,” Salbi said. “Telling your own truth is not an easy journey, but let me tell you it is worth it. Do it now. Jump off a cliff and live your truth right now. Don’t wait.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 




Professors share impact of work 

By DREW PANGRAZE 
News Writer 
Ten of Notre Dame’s most excit­ing and engaging professors shared the impact of their work in the first “ND Thinks Big” event Thursday evening in the Mendoza College of Business. 
The event was co-sponsored by the Center for Undergraduate Schol­arly Engagement (CUSE) and The Hub, a student-run website which promotes academic engagement online about issues in the Notre Dame community. 
Paul Barany, co-chair of “ND Thinks Big,” said students chose the nine professors and one adminis­trator who spoke at the discussion. Mike Collins, the distinct voice of Notre Dame Stadium, served as host and moderator for the event as well. 
“The editors of The Hub got to­gether and picked the different speakers to invite,” Baranay said. “We knew we wanted someone from each of the five colleges and one from the administration; we knew we wanted older and younger people who are experienced and people who are up-and-coming.” 
Lou Nanni, Vice President of Uni­versity Relations, opened the pre­sentation with a speech titled “To Dream Big, Remember Where You Came From.” The talk reflected on the history of the founding of Notre Dame. 
Jessica Hellmann, professor of the biological sciences, said the need to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere was imper­ative in combating climate change. She also said students should each reevaluate their view of nature and their interactions with it. 
Economics professor Michael Mo­gavero addressed the 10 major mis­takes universities make in imple­menting strategic plans. The most important mistake to fix was the failure to build a campus communi­ty with fundamental trust between faculty, students and staff, he said. 
Corey Angst, assistant professor in the Department of Management in the Mendoza College of Business, said the pilot program for Apple iPad and Samsung Galaxy Tab use in classes was highly successful. The program was introduced to certain Notre Dame courses in the fall of 2011. 
Angst said his entire class was completely paperless and promoted environmental-friendly education. 
All books, tests and homework were completed electronically, he said. 
Aaron Striegel, associate profes­sor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, dis­cussed the benefits of video games in rehabilitation. 
The ability to measure rehabili­tative progress in patients is often limited by the high cost of effective medical instruments, he said. As a solution, medical trainers can mon­itor the recovery of their patients by having them play gaming systems such as the Wii and the “Cloud” vir­tual computing system. 
Peter Garnavich, professor of physics, delivered his speech, “The Revolution Continues,” which traced the history of human under­standing of Earth’s location in the universe through the discoveries of Copernicus and Edwin Hubble. 
“Earth is located in the suburbs,” Garnavich said. “We are the South Bend to the Chicago in the galactic universe.” 
The event was recorded and will be made available online at The Hub website. 
Contact Drew Pangraze at     dpangraze@nd.edu 
Arabic Culture Night explores language 

By ABIGAIL HOVERMAN 
News Writer 
The fifth annual Arabic Cul­ture Night this evening offers the Notre Dame community an opportunity to explore foreign cultures through student perfor­mances entirely in Arabic. 
Ghada Bualuan, director of the Undergraduate Studies of the Department of Classics and Pro­gram of Arabic Languages, said the event of­fers an im­portant di­mension to the study of Arabic be­yond learn-singing in Ara­


“To have three students 
ing in the bic, which is 
singing in Arabic, which 
classroom. hard enough to 
is hard enough to speak, 
“We do speak, but to teach cul-but to sing and do it sing and do it ture in class-well, is amazing.” well, is amaz­rooms, but ing,” he said. this is a small Bualuan said 
Joe Dufour 
cultural ex-she hopes both 
president of Arabic Club 
perience to engage [stu­dents] with the culture so they can connect,” she said. “Cul­ture is not only history and civi­lizations that they read in class, but it’s also the language they speak, the songs they sing, the poetry they recite.” 
This years’ program offers a special focus on the Arab Spring protests, she said. 
Senior Joe Dufour, president of Arabic Club, said multiple per­formances address this signifi­cant international development. 
“This year the biggest influ­ence has been the Arab Spring,” he said. “We incorporated this major political, cultural and so­cial event.” 
Dufour said his contribution, “The Dictator,” is a ten-minute play that addresses the revolu­tions of last year in a lightheart­ed manner. 
“The Arab Spring was very big this year, and we thought it would be relevant to do a satirical play on life under dictatorship,” he said. “It has a powerful message in addition to being comedic.” 
Bualuan said the poetry read­ings selected for tonight will also address the Arab Spring with controversial Syrian poetry. 
“It’s the poetry of revolution,” she said. One poem was banned in Syria because it spoke against the dictator, a harsh regime, and a lack of freedom of speech and expression,” she said. “The other poem is a cry calling Arabs to unite together.” 
Students participating in the event have taken leadership in writing, choreographing and film editing, involving themselves 
with the event  more  than  ever  
before, Dufour said.  
Dufour  also  said  solo  and  
duet  vocal  performances  will  
showcase  the  
advanced  lan­ 

guage ability of students. “To have three students 
students and 
families enjoy 
the event. 
“We try to 
reach out to the 
community be­
cause there is a large community of native Arabs in Michiana,” she said. 
Even those who do not speak Arabic or study the Middle East can appreciate tonight’s perfor­mances, Bualuan said. 
“Anyone who has any interest in the Middle East, is intrigued by the culture and politics of the Arab World or just wants to get a better sense of what it means to be Arab should come,” she said. “Arabs never cease to produce music, literature and other forms of culture infused with life expe­riences in time of prosperity and in hardship.” 
She said the interconnected­ness of societies is best learned from immersion in another cul­ture. 
“We all share the same hu­manity. We all seek happiness, peace and fulfillment,” Bualuan said. “We want people to con­nect with … what they’re feeling, facing and what challenges they have.” 
The Arabic Culture Night will begin tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium at Mendoza. Admission is free. 
Contact Abigail Hoverman at ahoverman@nd.edu 

MEXICO 

Country prepares for visit from Pope Benedict XVI 

Associated Press 
SILAO, Mexico — The last time a pope visited Mexico, more than 1 million believ­ers cheered and wept in the streets of the capital. Aztec dancers shook rattles and blew conch shells inside the cathe­dral where John Paul II canon­ized the first Indian saint in the Americas. 
It’s been a decade since those ecstatic scenes capped the be­loved pope’s final trip to the country, and his successor ar­rives Friday to a much more subdued welcome. 
Benedict XVI comes to a church battling to extend its political and social gains while overcoming painful setbacks that include legalized abortion and gay marriage in the capital of the most Catholic country in the Spanish-speaking world. It is also a nation grappling with a rampant drug war that has spread fear into once-tranquil regions such as this state of Guanajuato. 
“There is a very immense peace that we need in Mexico because of the insecurity,” said Marcela Arguello, a 26-year-old housewife who said she plans to join the throngs along the route of the papal motorcade through the city of Leon, the state’s larg­est city. 
Mexico has been traumatized by the deaths of more than 47,000 people in drug-related violence in less than six years, and while sunbaked, rolling Guanajuato is far from the ma­jor drug trafficking routes, the shadow of the conflict looms even here. 
A recent series of apparently gang-related shootings have left some two dozen people dead in the state. 
Yet even the drug cartels profess to be people of faith. At least 11 banners signed by the pseudo-religious Knights Tem­plar gang were found in five municipalities of Guanajuato last week, including in Leon, offered peace during the papal trip. 
But the mass excitement that greeted the past pope seemed to be missing as well. 
By Thursday morning, Leon’s Metropolitan Park, where of­ficials are prepared for more than 100,000 campers, was empty apart from the usual jog­gers and families out for a walk. 
Preparations were under way, though: City workers were trim­ming trees and bushes along the motorcade route, bleach­ers were going up and a truck rolled past Leon’s cathedral spraying insecticide to kill any dengue-carrying mosquitoes. 
As many as 300,000 people are expected to gather for Mass Sunday, a large turnout even in a state that is 93.8 percent Cath­olic, the highest in the country. 
Book 
continued from page 1 
was rejected many times. 

She said she finally received an offer the same day she moved to New York City last summer to work as an intern with The Park Literary Group. 
Cornwell said her agent helped her revise “Tides” and sent the manuscript to several publishing houses. 
“It took about three months after that to get the deal,” she said. “That was pretty quick, I felt. Some people it takes years to get an agent. I feel really, re­ally, really lucky.” 
“Tides” takes place on the Isles of Shoals, situated off the northeastern coast of the United States, Cornwell said. The novel builds upon the Irish myth of selkies, which are said to live as seals in the sea and as humans on land. 
“I always really liked that fairy tale when I was growing up,” Cornwell said. “The sum­mer before I wrote my first draft, I worked on a steam­ship in Portsmouth Harbor ... I came to know really well these little islands off the coasts of New Hampshire called the Isles of Shoals.” 
Cornwell said she became serious about her goal when 
Movement 
continued from page 1 

clause and an officially sanc­tioned LGBTQ student organi­zation. Gonzalez said student government was inspired to pass their “It Needs to Get Bet­ter” Act by Church teachings. 
“[The] Church has stated very explicitly in many arenas that all instances of unjust discrimi­nation against LGBTQ people should be removed and avoid­ed,” he said. “The exclusion from the official [Notre Dame] non-discrimination statement and from the constellation of student [organizations] is one such instance.” 
The student senate at Loyola Chicago was “practically unani­mous” in passing the act, Gon­zalez said, despite Notre Dame’s autonomy and the perception that such an act would have lit­tle impact on their campus. 
“This was not about institu­tional identity or even institu­tion-specific issues,” he said. “Recognition, validation and accommodation of our fellow man is a fundamentally human endeavor that no university has the right to undermine.” 
The “It Needs to Get Better” video was originally conceived to garner support for the change the 4 to 5 Movement sought, Coccia said. He said the group used social media to reach be-she participated in National Novel Writing Month while working at “Teen Ink,” a teen literary magazine.  
“You write a rough draft of a novel in a month [during Na­tional Novel Writing Month],” Cornwell said. “So I tried that during my junior year of col­lege just to see if I could, and what I got to in the end of it was the first draft of “Tides” … I had put all that work into it at that point and I wanted to be committed to it.” 
Cornwell said “Mechanica” is a “steampunk retelling of Cinderella.” 
“My best friend is a set de­signer for theater and she had sort of stumbled upon this aes­thetic movement called steam-punk, which is this kind of neo-Victorian science fiction … and I thought that was really neat,” she said. “I was just going to write a short story, but it kept getting longer, so now it’s going to be a book.” 
Cornwell said she would like to work in different genres in the future and plans to write a graphic novel. While she said it is difficult to finish the first draft, she enjoys receiving feedback from readers. 
“My favorite thing so far has been hearing from people who have read the book and have gotten out of it what I hoped they would get out of it,” she 
yond the “Notre Dame ‘bubble’” for several important reasons. 
“The movement at Notre Dame is not unique,” he said. “There are students across the country at various universi­ties that understand the neces­sity and are struggling for their universities to protect the fun­damental dignity of all human beings, regardless of sexual ori­entation.” 
Coccia said the group also recognized the role it could play in pushing for LGBTQ inclu­sion at other schools across the country. 
“Because students at other universities are struggling for the same things that we are working towards, we hoped that the video and that the 4 to 5 Movement could provide a foundation for students to really increase the pressure on their campuses,” he said. 
By utilizing social media, Coccia said the group also hoped to garner support from faith-based institutions with inclusive non-discrimination clauses and LGBTQ-ally themed groups. 
“As we stated in the video, our religious character does not preclude these changes,” he said. “We believe that it in fact enhances the reasons for which such protections and safety and community-building measures should exist.” 
Coccia said the support from Loyola Chicago is invaluable said. “I really do like the idea that writing and reading is about connecting with some­one else.” 
Writing frequently is the best way to be a successful author, Cornwell said. 
“It’s really easy to convince yourself that you’re not a good writer or it’s not going to work … but it really comes down to … trying to get a little bit done every day and to just keep try­ing because it seems like this big thing, but like any sort of big goal, you have to do it a lit­tle at a time,” she said. “It’s just like writing those 1,000 words every day.” 
Cornwell said she plans to live in Ireland while she does research for “Compass,” the in­tended sequel to “Tides.” Even­tually, she would like to move to New York City and pursue a career as an author. 
“I say writing is really hard, and it is, and a lot of times it’s not an easy, pleasant thing to do, but it was really compelling to me, so once I started, I knew it was what I wanted to do for the rest of my life,” Cornwell said. 
“Tides” is tentatively slated for release in the spring of 2013 and “Mechanica” for the spring of 2014. 
Contact Marisa Iati at                miati@nd.edu 
to the group’s efforts on Notre Dame’s campus. 
“It acts as a spark that en­hances our motivation for work­ing for these changes and a more welcoming community at Notre Dame,” he said. 
The support displayed for the 4 to 5 Movement at other uni­versities is a display of collec­tive human values, Coccia said. Many times, this sentiment is grounded in faith. 
“Deep underneath the loyal­ties that we have to our various universities, we are connected by a common human sentiment that we cannot stand voiceless in the face of hurtful prejudice and policies that create unwel­coming environments for those who identify as (LGBTQ),” Coc­cia said. 
The significance of such an act being passed on another campus goes beyond the 4 to 5 Movement connecting with an­other university, Coccia said. Now, he says a new tone has been set for the group at Notre Dame. 
“No longer is it just Notre Dame students, faculty, staff and alumni appealing to the University to make the right changes,” Coccia said. “As it says in the act, Loyola Chicago has made a firm statement from the entire student body to stand in solidarity with us.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Lysistrata 
continued from page 1 
main character, Lysistrata, persuades the Grecian women to withhold sexual privileges from their husbands in an at­tempt to negotiate peace. In the process, the women provoke a battle between the sexes in a male-dominated society. 
Abram-Cophenhaver said “Lysistrata” was the perfect choice for a women’s college because it is, and always has been, a women’s play. 
“All of the actors on stage will be played by women, or women in masks imitating the behavior of men. That’s part of the fun,” he said. “It makes light of men and men and women’s relationships.” 
Additionally, a play from ancient Greece gives the au­dience a different experience than a modern play, he said. Those watching the play gain an understanding of the cul­ture of the time period it was written. 
“When the audience laughs at a joke, they are essentially laughing at a joke from 2,500 years ago. Even though it was a different time, it links us all together,” Abram-Copenhaver said. 
Senior Elizabeth Carian, who plays Lysistrata, said her character instigates events in the play. She said rehearsing antics for the performance is always enjoyable. 
“We’ve been rehearsing since mid-February and have really come together as a cast,” Carian said. “Every­day at rehearsal we discover something new, something outrageous or something hi­larious.” 
Abram-Copenhayer said while the performance is en­gaging, is not family-friendly entertainment. 
“This play is naughty. It al­ways has been and was writ­ten to be risqué and bawdy,” he said. “It is not for kids.” 
Performances will take place in Little Theatre, Moreau Cen­ter for the Arts, at 7:30 p.m., March 29 through 31 and at 
2:30 p.m. on April 1. 
Contact Meaghan Daly at mdaly01@saintmarys.edu 
Vatican 
continued from page 1 
Church, he said. 

“The title of this lecture could also have been ‘The Second Vatican Council: a compass for our time,’” Bruguès said. 
The archbishop also said the “attitude of lis­tening” to and paying at­tention to “the other” is a legacy of the Second Vatican Council. He said the word “listen” is one of the words used most often in the Bible. 
Listening came about as a culture of paying atten­tion to what others say, he said. This concern for others extended to those of non-Christian faiths, Bruguès said. 
“It was a Copernican revolution in the relation­ship between the church and religions that do not follow Christ,” he said. 
Bruguès said this was part of the council’s call for universal brother­hood. The emphasis on standing through teach-respect for freedom of ing. conscience is important “The Second Vatican in modern societies, he Council made our under-said. standing of the church 
“Countries as pluralis-deeper and more affec­
tic as the  t i o n a t e , ”  
U n i t e d  Brug uès said.  
S t a t e s  He  said  
can  no  C at h o l ic  
longer do w i t h o u t  “The Second Vatican  schools and u n i ve r s i - 
r el ig i ou s  Council made our  ties  serve  a  
d ia log ue, wh ich is an aspect  understanding of the church deeper and more affectionate.”  verytant the  impor-role in  modern  
of  social  chu rch of ed­ 
pe a ce , ” B r u g u è s s a i d .  Archbishop Jean-Louis Brugès Vatican Secretary of  ucating the laity. “I consider  
“  F a i t h  the Congregation for  a  Catholic  
c o m mu ­ Catholic Education  U n i v e r s i t y  
n  i t i e s  an  opportu­ 
have  a  nity  because  
right  to  the  teachers  
e x p r e s s  and  students  
t  hem  - are  trained  
selves  in  the  public  to  study  new  challeng­ 

sphere.” es,” Bruguès said. “It is 
Bruguès said the ideal a means to find a way to for Catholics is to love the situate ourselves in look-Church as a mother. He ing at these challenges.” said the council brings the Church’s laity closer Contact Christian Meyers at     and strengthens under-cmeyers@nd.edu 



Minor earthquake causes booms 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE — A minor earthquake occurred this week near the eastern Wisconsin city where researchers have been investigating a series of unex­plained booming sounds, federal geologists said Thursday. 
The U.S. Geological Survey said the 1.5 magnitude earth­quake struck Tuesday just after midnight in Clintonville, a town of about 4,600 people about 40 miles west of Green Bay. 
Geophysicist Paul Caruso told The Associated Press that loud booming noises have been known to accompany earthquakes. It’s possible the mysterious sounds that town officials have been investigating are linked to the quake, he said. 
Earthquakes can gener­ate seismic energy that moves through rock at thousands of miles per hour, producing a sonic boom when the waves come to the earth’s surface, Caruso said. 
“To be honest, I’m skeptical that there’d be a sound report as­sociated with such a small earth­quake, but it’s possible,” he said. 
Those reservations didn’t stop Clintonville City Administrator Lisa Kuss from declaring “the mystery is solved” at a news con­ference Thursday evening. 
She said USGS representatives described the event as a swarm of several small earthquakes in a very short time. 
“In other places in the United States, a 1.5 earthquake would not be felt,” she said. “But the type of rock Wisconsin has trans­mits seismic energy very well.” 
The U.S. Geological Survey says earthquakes with magni­tude of 2.0 or less aren’t com­monly felt by people and are generally recorded only on local seismographs. Caruso said the Tuesday earthquake was discov­ered after people reported feeling something, and geologists pored through their data to determine that an earthquake did indeed strike. 
Local residents have reported late-night disturbances since Sunday, including a shaking ground and loud booms that sound like thunder or fireworks. 
City officials investigated and ruled out a number of human-related explanations, such as construction, traffic, military ex­ercises and underground work. The town has scheduled a news conference for Thursday at 6 p.m. but hasn’t said what will be dis­cussed. 
Clintonville resident Jordan Pfeiler, 21, said she doubted an earthquake caused the noises. She said the booms she experi­enced were in a series over the course of several hours and not continuous as she might have ex­pected if they were caused by an earthquake. 
Still, she said, “It’s a little scary knowing Clintonville could even have earthquakes.” 
Steve Dutch, a geologist at the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay, said a 1.5 magnitude earthquake produces the energy equivalent of 100 pounds of ex­plosives and could certainly pro­duce loud sounds. 

But he was reluctant to de­scribe Tuesday’s event as an earthquake, saying the term is generally used to refer to wide­spread stress in the earth’s crust. What happened in Wisconsin could be near the surface, per­haps caused by groundwater movement or thermal expansion of underground pipes, he said. 
Still, Dutch said it was possible that the event could produce a se­ries of sounds over time. 
“If you’ve got something caus­ing a little bit of shifting under­ground, it may take a while for whatever is causing it to play it­self out,” he said 
Caruso, the U.S. Geological Survey scientist, said Tuesday’s event was confirmed as an earth­quake because it registered on six different seismometers, including some as far as central Iowa. 
Jolene Van Beek, 41, had been jarred awake several times by late-night rumbling this week. When asked by telephone Thurs­day whether she thought the noises were caused by an earth­quake, she joked that she was at a nearby lake “waiting for the tsu­nami to hit.” 
“Anything to do with earth­quakes is going to freak people out,” she said. “You’d never ex­pect it in Wisconsin.” 

Top Komen employees resign 

Associated Press 
DALLAS — At least five high-ranking executives with the Su­san G. Komen for the Cure breast cancer charity have resigned in the aftermath of the organization’s de­cision to eliminate its funding for Planned Parenthood. 
The departures include three of­ficials from Komen’s Dallas head­quarters, as well as CEOs of af­filiate groups in Oregon and New York City. Although some of the ex­ecutives cited personal reasons, the resignations suggest that Komen is still in turmoil, even after reversing course and restoring the money to Planned Parenthood. 
“Obviously, we know some folks are upset. We’ve certainly seen that,” Aun said. “We know people have been upset by recent events, but most really do recognize the importance of our work.” 
The resignations began about a month ago. Chris McDonald, ex­ecutive director and chief execu­tive of the organization’s Oregon and southwest Washington affili­ate, announced that she’ll leave at the end of April. She said her deci­sion wasn’t “predicated by any one event,” but that actions by national headquarters affected her think­ing. 
“Despite our deep frustration about the distraction that our or­ganization headquarters’ actions caused, I was proud that our affili­ate took a strong stand against the politicization of the fight to improve women’s health,” McDonald said in a Feb. 25 statement posted on the organization’s website. 
One board member for McDon­ald’s affiliate, Portland attorney Jennifer Williamson, rejoined the board after stepping down last month to put pressure on the na­tional organization. She couldn’t walk away from the local Komen work to expand access to women’s health care, she said. 
“As a local affiliate we could push back on them but we couldn’t do anything about it,” said William­son, who is also on the Planned Par­enthood board and is a Democratic candidate for the state Legislature. “I did what I had the ability to do, which was resign from the board. But to support the mission ... I re­joined the board.” 

News emerged in late January that Komen had decided to stop giving money to Planned Parent­hood for breast-screening services because Planned Parenthood was the focus of a congressional investi­gation launched at the urging of an­ti-abortion activists. After a three-day firestorm of criticism, Komen decided to restore the money. 
Some Komen affiliates, including McDonald’s, were among those that publicly opposed the policy change that cut off grants for Planned Par­enthood. 
In the days after the reversal, Komen policy chief Karen Handel resigned. She had opposed abor­tion as a Republican candidate for Georgia governor and had become a target of those angry about the decision to halt funding to Planned Parenthood. 
ARGENTINA 
Country warns stock markets of stolen oil 

Associated Press 
BUENOS AIRES — Argenti­na has asked stock markets in New York and London to warn investors of its claim that five oil exploration companies are working illegally off the Falk­land Islands, which Argentina contends were stolen by Brit­ain more than a century ago. 
Foreign Minister Hector Ti-merman announced Thurs­day that he had sent letters to the directors of both markets urging them to force any com­pany involved in oil explora­tion near the islands to warn investors that the companies risk civil and criminal penal­ties in Argentina, which con­siders the “Islas Malvinas” to be part of its sovereign terri­tory. 
The companies are Argos Resources Ltd., Desire Petro­leum PLC, Falkland Oil and Gas Ltd., Borders & Southern Petroleum PLC and Rockhop­per Exploration PLC. 
Islanders and Britons in­volved in the Falklands oil business say they have proven they can develop oil no matter what Argentina says or does. 
“It’s like baying at the moon. The claim isn’t recognized by the people of the Falklands or the people of Britain. Inves­tors are aware that Argentina is making noise, but it’s really just noise,” said John Foster, managing director of Britain’s Falkland Islands Holdings PLC, which owns a minority share of Falkland Oil and Gas Ltd. “As a practical matter I don’t think it will have any im­pact.” 
Rockhopper struck oil north of the islands last year, finding in its Sea Lion field what may be as much as 450 billion gal­lons of petroleum, and is look­ing for $2 billion in investment money to begin producing crude. Analysts have said that over its lifetime the field could deliver $10.5 billion in taxes and royalties to the Falkland Island government. 
This year, Borders and Southern and Falkland Oil and Gas are drilling explor­atory wells south and east of the islands, investing $1.3 million a day in hopes of a ma­jor discovery. 
All five companies are small players in the oil industry and would need major partners to shift into production. The Argentine government has sought to keep that from hap­pening or at least make it more expensive by barring any par­ticipating companies from do­ing business in Argentina and now by trying to cast doubt on the legality of the exploration. 
With Argentina’s warning letters, “the stock markets will be able to evaluate if they should continue handling the companies’ shares, and can demand that the companies inform the markets so that current and future investors are properly informed of the legal risks” of continuing to operate on Argentina’s conti­nental shelf, Timerman said. 
A spokesman for the New York Stock Exchange, Rich Adamonis, confirmed the ex­change received the letter and said it had no immediate com­ment. 
Argentina has asserted its sovereignty over the islands ever since they came firmly under British control in 1833. The two countries fought a war in 1982 that killed more than 900 people, and with April 2 marking the 30th an­niversary of an Argentine mil­itary incursion, both countries have engaged in an escalating war of words over their future. 
President Cristina Fernan­dez accused Britain again on Thursday of militarizing the conflict, and said “Argentina is always on the side of peace,” even as her foreign minister tried to ratchet up political, economic and legal pressure on the islands. 
The Falkland Islands are no longer the distant and declin­ing British colony that Argenti­na occupied a generation ago. They are a self-governing Brit­ish overseas territory, and as such their population of 3,000 will determine what happens with the oil, said Stephen Lux­ton, the mineral resources di­rector for the Falkland Islands government. 
“Oil provides the basis for securing our long-term fu­ture,” Luxton said. 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Exposing NDH 
Let’s just cut to the chase: North Dining Hall is inferior to its counterpart in the South. 
I mean, let’s be frank, fellow Northsid­ers: We’ve been living a lie. Since 1957, we’ve been told equality exists between Notre Dame’s two 
fine dining establish­ments. 
Countless times have we heard, “It doesn’t matter where you go eat. You’ll get the exact same thing at either place. Oh, except for wheat rolls, soup spoons, 



fresher vegetables, apple slices, calzones, diversity of wings during wing night, thicker fro-yo, four waffle irons, pre­made wraps, sushi, five soups, religious murals, a portrait of Fr. Sorin, a Jesus table, music, peppermints, fresh tortilla chips, fresher fruit, lima beans, pre­made pizza, right-out-the-oven cookies, romaine lettuce, malt vinegar and we’re just getting started.” 
Whew. 

That sounds like a big asterisk to me. 
I don’t understand why this University just doesn’t come out and say, “Listen, if you like older food and a fun house-like layout, go to North. If you want fresher food with more variety and a classic university dining hall experience, come enjoy the bounties we have to offer you here on the Southside.” 
Now, I’ll admit something. 

I am the biggest fan of the North Din­ing Hall’s salad line during the weekday lunch period. My day is made when the Shanghai Chicken, Vietnamese Chicken or Southwest Salads are on the menu for the day. I am ecstatic when “Salad Guy” (and if you wait in the line, you know who I’m referring to) is there to strike up a conversation with you while he asks if you want more dressing. 
I am an even bigger fan of North’s Saturday-night Burrito Bar. A fantastic idea created (I’m sure) by the fine people in the front office at Notre Dame Food Services. 
But please, for weekday breakfast or dinner? Even the most ardent of Northsiders has to admit that there’s no comparison. 
Countless times have I come across students from the North that make the extra 10 minute roundtrip trek to South, even in the bitter cold that hits northern Indiana from time to time. 
And countless times have I heard Northsiders say that they prefer South to North, even if it means eating at North because of a time crunch in a busy sched­ule. 
These are the reasonable people that can recognize good, wholesome food when it hits their tastes buds. 
But those who swear by North, those that claim the food is better on the North-side — these are the folks that must have strained tastes buds. 
I’ll give you eating environment. That’s give or take. But the food? Absolutely not. 
All I’m asking is for those people that care about this pressing issue to come to a reasonable conclusion. 
For those of you whose allegiances are yet to be made, consider this as a fair proposal to switch over from the dark side. 
Your tastes buds will thank you. 
Contact Adam Llorens at      allorens@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
It is sometimes said that Nietzsche believes that “might makes right.” This is not wrong, exactly, though it is sufficient­ly ambiguous to be seriously misleading. 
Nietzsche believes that all living things — and that 
category includes, in his more mysti­cal moments, all things whatso­ever — have a fundamental drive toward ... well, toward something difficult to define. 


What is the differ­ence, after all, be­tween that which is alive and that which is not? Well, living things are those that strive to preserve themselves 
— both at the level of the individual and at the level of the species — within a world that is indifferent to that preserva­tion, a world that continually threatens to destroy them. A living thing is a system that acts such that it can continue to act similarly in the future — whether its en­vironment acts to help or hinder it. It is, in other words, a thing with integrity. 
What is the fundamental drive shared by things with integrity? One is tempted to call this “aggression,” though that has a destructive connotation that is certainly wrong. Perhaps a better word would be “assertion,” though that has a linguistic connotation that is wrong just as certain­ly. Ultimately, Nietzsche uses the phrase “will to power” to describe this drive: it is general enough to characterize all living things, even if it is not very informative. For the will to power takes countless forms. The will to power of a tree, for instance, is quite different than the will to power of a lion: the former carries nutrients from the soil to its leaves, where sunlight transforms those nutrients into the energy required for the tree to keep itself intact, both in itself and in its de­scendants, while the latter uses its senses and muscles to hunt and teeth to kill prey that it eats for the energy required to keep itself intact, both in itself and in its offspring. 
Humans, likewise, manifest their will 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Go to your bosom; knock there and ask your heart what it doth know.” 
William Shakespeare from “Measure for Measure” 


Power 
to power — though in a unique way: each human acts to preserve not only his own integrity and that of his offspring but also that of his culture. This, among other things, is what it means to say that humans are rational animals: They can identify not only with themselves and with those biologically like them but, though abstraction, with anyone who shares their culture — and, at the limit of this process, with all human beings whatsoever, perhaps even with all things whatsoever insofar as they can be seen as part of a single architecture in which humans have a special place. No other living thing — none, anyway, that we have encountered — can do that. 
This is actually an old Stoic idea — one inherited, through Kant and Schopen­hauer, by Nietzsche. This is the sense in which might makes right: Power — that is, assertion of oneself against an envi­ronment that would perhaps destroy one 
— is something of which everyone neces­sarily approves. For it is something that everyone cannot help but seek: If some­thing did not seek to preserve itself — to maintain power over an environment that might destroy it — it would not be a living thing at all and so would not be reading this essay. So power does indeed make right — but Nietzsche’s point is that this power can, in humans, take pro­foundly interesting forms, such as power over even the will to power. 
And this power over the will to power is just the self-control — that is, the au­tonomy — that led men and women from the barbarism of lions to art, religion and science — to culture, in other words. And culture is, in some sense, itself a living thing: it strives to preserve itself by teaching those within it to identify with it more strongly than they identify with themselves. This is, presumably, why men and women are sometimes willing to die for something larger than themselves. 
In principle, Nietzsche objects to none of this — indeed, how could he? He is himself a product of decades of self-control, of an education that transformed him from a mere animal — that is, a child — into a relentless seeker after truth. What really bothers Nietzsche is the lack of willingness of his fellow men and women to question whether this pro­cess has gone to far — whether a will to power turned against itself might become not just a will to truth but even a will to death. He worries, in other words, that the only way for a culture to preserve itself with absolute assurance is for it to destroy the troublesome humans who bear it — to lead them, in other words, to the crushing degree of self-effacement required for socialist democracy to func­tion. 

Freud — a disciple of Nietzsche — would later call this will to death neu­rosis — indeed, would call European civilization the most neurotic of history. For when self-control — one manifesta­tion of which is justice — is carried too far, one begins to hate oneself even for existing, for having desires to control in the first place, since their mere exis­tence threatens the rights of others and the supremacy of the state. Witness the population crash in Europe and South­eastern Asia — or, better, the hedonistic and nihilistic society everywhere in which each attempts to shrink down into himself and spend the day consuming Music Television. Or Facebook, if he is of that generation. 
What, then, should we do? Well, Nietzsche argues, we need an Overman 
— we need, that is, one who can turn his will to power even against his self-control, can learn to assert himself again. Such an Overman would be one who retained the capacity for art, religion, and science but also moved beyond those, creating his own values rather than ac­cepting those of the civilization that was killing him. 
Such an Overman could teach us how to move beyond where we are — where we seem very much to be stuck. Is such an Overman possible? I fear that, to whatever extent I do not doubt it, I am in the grip of a fantasy in which I very much need to believe. Perhaps Nietzsche would have said the same of himself. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his fourth year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on WVFI. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
WEEKLY POLL 
What are you giving up for Lent? 
Huddle candy Facebook stalking Super Smash Bro.s Naps 
Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Friday, March 23, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
UWIRE 

Overzealous, untrained night watchmen have no 
place on the streets 
On Feb. 26 Trayvon Martin, a 17-year-old black high school student, was on his way back to his father’s house from the convenience store when George Zimmerman, 28, stole Martin’s life with a gunshot. 
To say that Mar-Christopher tin’s life came to Shelton a tragic end is an understatement. It The Daily just should not have Cougar happened. What unfolded is antithetical to what any person should be subjected to. 
Zimmerman was an overzealous and self-appointed leader of his neighbor­hood watch, the quixotic protector for his community. However, he was cer­tainly not the protector Martin and his family needed that fateful night. 
According to the Miami Herald, “Zimmerman called police 46 times since Jan. 1, 2011 to report disturbanc­es, break-ins, windows left open and other incidents. Nine of those times, he saw someone or something suspicious.” 
On the night in question, Zimmer-
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Peace, the world and faith 
It is impossible to take even a glance at the news these days without being bom­barded by reports of violent conflict around the world, from the uprising in Syria to the continued violence of the LRA and Joseph Kony. This reporting leaves something to be desired, however. As active world citizens we, and likely many of you as well, desire to learn not only about the current state of these conflicts but also how they might be transformed into a sustainable peace. It is with this goal in mind that the Notre Dame Student Peace Conference will be bringing student presenters and experts, including the keynote speaker Molly Kinder, Class of 2001, from around the country to campus on March 30-31. This conference will provide a great opportunity to engage in dialogue on the many ongoing efforts to promote peacebuilding around the world with fellow students and the broader community of peace scholars. Given the unique Catholic character of our university, we are pleased to be partnering with the Center for Inter­national and Security Studies at Maryland to host both a panel and a workshop exam­ining the intersections of faith and global policy centered on some of the most impor­tant issues of our time. 
Please consider taking advantage of this opportunity by registering free-of-charge for the conference at www.nd.edu/~peacecon by the end of the day, Friday March 23. We hope to see you at the conference! 
Erik Helgeson 
senior Dillon Hall 

Nhu Phan 

senior Farley Hall 

Rebecca Sinclair 
senior off campus March 22 
man again dialed 911 before approach­ing Martin. 
“Hey, we’ve had some break-ins in my neighborhood, and there’s a real suspicious guy at Retreat View Circle. This guy looks like he’s up to no good,” he said. 
At this point, the only thing that Zimmerman knew about Martin was his ethnicity. By all accounts, Martin was not causing trouble. His apparent crime was being black and walking down an affluent street at night. 
Several citizens called 911 to report the disturbance that followed. The calls were released Friday. 
In one of the chilling calls, you can hear a male voice screaming for help in the background as a female neigh­bor dictates the situation from her home to the 911 operator. It is followed by a gunshot and stoic silence in the background. Then, the wailing for help was over for good. The silence eats you up inside. You realize that you have just listened to Martin’s last 10 seconds of life. You can almost feel his blood on your shirt. You can almost see the blood on Zimmerman’s hands. 

Zimmerman stated it was he who was wailing for help and that he acted only in self-defense. Unfortunately, Martin is not here to refute or confirm Zimmerman’s account. The police did not conduct a background check on Zimmerman nor did they test him for drugs or alcohol; however, Martin was tested to determine if he was under the influence. Pressing questions still remain. Why did Zimmerman feel Martin, an unarmed minor, was suspi­cious? 
Many have suggested Martin was racially profiled. It certainly seems so, but we were not there and are not in Zimmerman’s brain. 
Why has Zimmerman not been ar­rested? The police definitely have prob­able cause for an arrest. 
Many African Americans have long sensed an inherent unfairness in the 
U.S. justice system. This is a system where Mike Vick can be sentenced to 23 months in prison for the slaying of animals. And current NFL player, Plaxico Burress, can be sentenced to two years in prison for shooting himself at a night club. Mind you, no disturbance was caused, and no one was injured in the incident. But kill a minority child and you get sent home without being arrested and your story of self-defense is taken at face value. 
Maybe I am speaking in hyperboles here, but the vast majority of Ameri­cans must understand how this looks to the black community. 
It was announced Tuesday that the case will soon go to a Florida grand jury and that the justice department will begin investigating the possibility of a hate crime. 
This is certainly a step in the right direction but is still too little too late. 
This article first ran in the March 21 edition of The Daily Cougar, the daily pub­lication serving the University of Houston. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Apple, Blackberry and ... Raspberry? 
The Raspberry Pi, an extremely thin, bare-bones com­puter, launched at the end of last month to the delight of tens of thousands of people. Consumers around the world had been anxiously waiting for its release for six years, and the computer sold out within hours. 
So what’s all the hype? The main ap­peal is the price: the Model A Raspberry David Pi is only $25 and the Model B is $35. Rabinowitz 
The Model A Raspberry Pi packs a 700 megahertz processor, 256 mega-The Cavalier bytes of RAM, a USB port, an SD card Daily reader and an HDMI port. The $35 Model B also comes equipped with an Ethernet port for a wired Internet connection and an additional USB port. All this is amazingly crammed into a credit card sized comput­er, which consumers then connect to a separately-purchased monitor. 
Although it certainly has mass appeal, the computer wasn’t designed for the general public. Instead, co-founder Robert Mullins told CNN “the primary goal was to build a low cost computer that every child could own, and one where programming was the natural thing to do with it.” 
The Raspberry Pi Foundation, the non-profit charity which created the Raspberry Pi computer, aims to help children who are unable to afford regularly priced computers to ob­tain one. The founders hope increased access to technology will help improve young children’s education, specifically in the fields of computer science and programming. 
Eben Upton, a former computer science prof. at St. John’s College of Cambridge University, started the Raspberry Pi Foundation in 2006. Upton was disappointed at the declin­ing number of computer science applicants for his depart­ment. He said young adults know how to use computers, but often do not know how they work. 
According to the foundation’s website, the founders also said they noticed the same problem. 
“… [C]omputers had become so expensive and arcane that programming experimentation on them had to be forbidden by parents,” they said. 
The Raspberry Pi Foundation’s founders said they hope the inexpensive nature of the computer will allow children the freedom to experiment with the technology. 
To have the price so low, the designers had to make a few compromises. There is no data storage included, for ex­ample. The operating system has to be saved on an SD card, or on an external USB hard drive. Also, the operating system is a free version of Linux, not the more popular Microsoft Windows or Mac OS X. 
These compromises, however, have not prevented con­sumers from recognizing the Raspberry Pi as an incredible device. The inclusion of an HDMI port, an RCA video port and an audio jack means buyers can hook it up to a monitor or TV and stream HD video and music. 
The Linux operating system also supports many of the same functions which Windows or Mac OS X provide. Users can run word processing applications, surf the Internet or play 3D games. 
Many of the current buyers are technology enthusiasts, but the foundation hopes the computer will soon reach children, improving their intellectual engagement with this cutting-edge technology. 
This article first ran in the March 21 edition of The Cavalier Daily, the daily publication serving the University of Virginia. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 

This weekend, the DeBartolo Perform­ing Arts Center (DPAC) brings two films decidedly not steeped in Oscar gold or cultural significance, but instead follow the campy adventures of a bumbling, foolish international spy. 
“OSS 117: Cairo, Nest of Spies” and “OSS 117: Lost in Rio” are two French comedies from the mind of writer-di­rector Michel Hazanavicius and star Os­car-winner Jean Dujardin as OSS agent 117, who is equal parts James Bond and Jacques Clouseau, with an emphasis on foolishness. 
Hazanavicius and Dujardin are cur­rently the golden boys of Hollywood for their cinematic tribute to silent films, “The Artist,” which won five Oscars at the 2012 Academy Awards. 
But in the vein of Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, before Hazanavicius and Dujar­din could make their “Good Will Hunt­ing,” they had to make their own version of Kevin Smith 1990s comedies in order to get on the map. 
This came in the OSS 117 films, a con­tinuation of a series of films from the 1950s and 1960s. However, instead of keeping the style of overly-serious spy thrillers, Hazanavicius decided to flip the genre on its head. The result was two uproarious comedies. 
In the first, 2006’s “Cairo, Nest of Spies,” 117 must find the missing spy Jack Jefferson. The web of intrigue grows increasingly deeper and more ri­diculous, as he encounters Soviets, Brit­ish, Egyptians, Belgians and even a Nazi splinter group. 
The film was well received both in France and internationally, and won top awards at both the Seattle International Film Festival and the Tokyo Internation­al Film Festival. 
The film’s success led to a sequel three years later. In 2009’s “Lost in Rio,” 117’s exploits get no less ridiculous. In the opening scene, almost everybody dies except 117 and a Chinese countess at the hands of Red Chinese assassins. 
The film’s hero must then travel South America, where he runs into an escaped Nazi, Mossad agents and hippies. 
The film’s parody roots stay strong in the spy films of the 1960s, but expand to include the films of Dean Martin and Alfred Hitchcock. 
While the sequel didn’t receive awards like the first did, it was equally well-re­ceived with critics and was a commer­cial success. 
“OSS 117: Cairo, Nest of Spies” can be seen Saturday at 6:30 p.m. and “OSS 117: Lost in Rio” will be showing Saturday at 3 p.m. and 9 p.m. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents and can be purchased at the box office in DPAC or at the center’s website, performingarts.nd.edu. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

“OSS 117: Cairo, Nest of Spies,” “OSS 117: Lost in Rio” 
Where: DPAC When: Saturday, “Cairo, Nest of Spies” at 6:30 p.m. and “Lost in Rio” at 3 p.m. and 9 p.m. How Much: $3 for students More information: performingarts.nd.edu 

AP 
Braves third baseman Chipper Jones salutes the Atlanta crowd April 
8. Jones announced Thursday he will retire following the 2012 season. 

By BRENNA WILLIAMS theater. Scene Writer The crew brought in theater stu­
dents trained in fight choreography 

Shakespeare’s name has become and make-up to teach the cast tricks of synonymous with high art, beautiful the trade, including how to work with language and the scariest days of high fake blood. school English. It has greatly benefited the overall 
This weekend, the Not-So-Royal production experience, sophomore Shakespeare Company (NSR) presents stage manager Fiora O’Meara said. “Titus Andronicus,” reminding the “It’s been really exciting with all of Notre Dame community even the Bard the blood work, the action, the fight-could be as gritty, bloody and violent ing. All of it has been really fun,” she as the latest Hollywood blockbuster. said. 
“Titus Andronicus,” one of Shake-The show fills Washington Hall’s speare’s first tragedies, tells the story Mainstage Theatre with its 15 actors’ of Titus, a general in the Roman army. larger-than-life performances, de-Because of its content, it’s often one of tailed sets, leather-heavy costuming Shakespeare’s lesser-known and least and the buckets of blood. performed works. NSR’s production of “Titus Androni­
“[The show] is very dark, but it is cus” promises an evening full of all of also a lot of fun,” senior Tara Duffy, the things we’ve come to expect from the show’s producer, said. “It’s the modern entertainment, but in a way equivalent of an Elizabethan action only Shakespeare could deliver it. movie with characters hell-bent on re-“People love seeing characters be­venge and power.” having badly: scheming, cheating, 
To some, the idea of performing insulting, fighting and killing in cold Shakespeare with five weeks to pre-blood. Not-So-Royal Shakespeare pare might sound daunting. Company wants to provide a delicious 
However, student-produced shows guilty pleasure for Notre Dame and usually have limited production the greater South Bend community,” schedules, so it has taken a dynamic Barsaloux said. “It’s got a lot of stuff in cast and crew to make the show come it and all of that stuff comes together together as well as it has. in an odd, strange way.” 
“We have a great cast that is very di-“Titus Andronicus,” produced by the verse. They have all dedicated a lot of Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company, time and energy but you can tell that runs tonight at 7:30 p.m. and Satur­they are enjoying it, and that kind of day at 4 p.m. on the Washington Hall enthusiasm is infectious,” Duffy said. Mainstage. Tickets can be purchased 
As the only student group dedicat-at the door and are $2 for students and ed to producing the works of Shake-$4 for non-students. speare, the mission of NSR is to make his works more accessible and fun for Contact Brenna Williams at a contemporary audience. bwillia9@nd.edu 
For this performance, the original script was adapted to run under two hours and was shifted from its origi­nal Roman setting to 1970s biker cul-“Titus Andronicus” ture. 
“What struck me most about the show is how masculine it is. There’s all 
By: William Shakespeare

this bravado, all of this focus on codes 
Where: DPAC 

of behavior and honor,” senior Kevin 
Barsaloux, the show’s director, said. When: Friday at 7:30 p.m. and Saturday “This 1970s biker culture has those 
at 4 p.m.

same codes of conduct, that same rigid honor system, teeming with violence How Much: $2 for students underneath. It was a natural leap for me.” 
In addition to the updated setting, the cast and crew have gone to great lengths to further innovate student 
AP AP 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


Friday, March 23, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 13 


By COURTNEY ECKERLE In “Kimchee Line,” he mixes a 
Scene Writer cowboy campfire tune with lyr­
ics about North Korean forced 
Bhi Bhiman is not what he ap-labor. It’s a great example of his 
pears to be. There aren’t many almost imperceptible, but as-
surprises left in the Americana tute social voice that pervades 

and folk genres, but his recent most of the album. By ADRIANA PRATT Members of Third Eye Blind headlining act.  The New York full-length release, simply titled In “Crime of Passion”, a woe-Senior Scene Writer have shifted since the band re-native once majored in finance “Bhiman,” is one of them. ful tale about a lover’s cheat-
leased their first major demo in and marketing at the University The slow stew of rambling ing heart goes, “my baby’s with 
Fans can jump out of that 1993, but lead singer Stephan of Pennsylvania; now, the for-tales and characters with Bhi-that man again/I thought that semi-charmed kind of life and Jenkins has remained the con-mer Google employee is an up-man’s striking voice and John they was through/But now she’s get deep inside the Third Eye stant.  Brad Hargreaves plays and-coming rapper. Hurt’s guitar-picking skills found a beaucoup love and here Blind experience Saturday the drums, percussion and His song “You Are Not a Ro-paint a vision of an artist who my heart lies ashin’/Oh Lord when the band takes the Stepan piano, and Abe Millett joins on bot” featuring Marina & the grew up outside of 1890s Appa-where were you/In my crime of Center stage. bass guitar. Kryz Read plays the Diamonds is one of his most lachia. passion.” 
Though it’s their third visit lead guitar and all three musi-popular and “James Franco” It combines with modern “Mexican Wine” is a quick to campus, many students will cians provide backing vocals. has garnered national atten-world references (Wal-Mart (it’s a little over a minute long) get to experience Third Eye Though Third Eye Blind hasn’t tion. While watching the mu-and kimchee) to make his mu-song of fun instrumentals, Blind live for the first time this met success similar to its initial sic video, it’s hard not to think sic an odd choice but fantasti-which blends quickly into the weekend. Fresh off recording 1997 album release, which pro-of a Notre Dame home bas-cally unique. Bhiman’s record complimentary “Kimchee Line” their fifth album in London, the vided the hits “Semi-Charmed ketball game. Various people company touts the second-gen-with its heartbreakingly quirky group is expected to play their Life,” “Graduate,” “How’s It run around with their heads eration Sri Lankan-American lyrics. “Atlatl” has a fantastic classics “Jumper” and “Semi-Going to Be,” “Losing a Whole covered by blown-up photos of based out of San Francisco as twang to it with lines like, “we Charmed Life,” and possibly Year” and “Jumper,” they still Franco’s face, bobbling around the Sri Lankan Woody Guthrie, jumped in the truck with the give a taste of their new tunes. remain a musical force. Jenkins like the enlarged photos of play-which sounds just odd enough cluckin’ mucky duck.” 
Third Eye Blind began re-made an appearance on VH1’s ers in the Irish student section. to work. “Guttersnipe” is perhaps the cording their fifth album in “Big Morning Buzz” in Novem-The diverse acts will liven up His lyrics show a keen obser-strongest instrumentals on the London on March 13 and tweets ber in the midst of the OWS pro-the Stepan stage Saturday night vational eye and a sharp, funny album, over six minutes long from the group hint at what’s to tests to promote “If There Ever in a way similar to last year’s wit, such as with “Ballerina”, and worth every second. It’s the come. “Working on something Was a Time” and the band will SUB concert. Chiddy Bang which is reminiscent of Johnny kind of song that immediately to make you dance”(March 22) continue on tour this year. rapped ahead of the old school Cash and June Carter’s hit tune makes you realize you’ve made and “Nothing like a little shaker Never one to shy away from O.A.R., and this year a modern “Jackson.” But instead of sing-the right musical purchase. and cowbell for some finishing controversial material, Third rapper will once again preclude ing, “we got married in a fever, “Life’s Been Better” is a mourn-touches” (March 21) tease anx-Eye Blind’s past releases have a band largely popular in the hotter than a pepper sprout,” he ful closing farewell on the al­ious fans. covered topics from crystal meth ‘90s. blithely croons, “we got mar-bum, slipping by like a lazy day 
To quell those nerves, Third use to sex to suicide. Though So dress to the ‘90s and head ried in a Wal-Mart, down by the on a river. Eye Blind put up their call-to-Jenkins is fast approaching his to Stepan when the doors open Wrangler jeans.” Bhiman has been well known action recent single, “If There 50s, the band proves they’re at 7:30 p.m. The concert is set A modern day folk song could and respected in his local Bay Ever Was a Time” on their still focused on remaining rel-to start at 8 p.m. and will last as take place nowhere else, a fact area for years, but with this re-website for free download. The evant with their recent singles. long as the crowds keep mosh-Bhiman celebrates. It continues, cent release he is finally earning band released the song about Steven Markowitz, bet-ing. “I killed a guy in Texas, stole my the kind of national recognition the Occupy Wall Street protests ter known by his stage name grandma’s Hyundai/Now our his music demands. In a music in November to show their sup-“Hoodie Allen,” will keep the Contact Adriana Pratt at faces are on the magazine.” industry that burns and churns port for the movement. night young as he opens for the apratt@nd.edu The album is like Forrest artists as flavors of the month, 
Gump’s box of chocolates — you Bhiman’s album has created a 
never know what you’re going to sound that will last. His arrest-
get. His songs are colorful and ing voice, simple tunes and en-
powerfully woven narratives chanting lyrics make “Bhiman” 
about lovable rednecks, rail-the most exciting Americana al­
road urchins and jilted lovers. bum out this year. 
Bhiman is masterful at blend­
ing the woeful and melan-Contact Courtney Eckerle at 
choly with laughter and light. cecker01@saintmarys.edu 




Photo Courtesy of Third Eye Blind Photo Courtesy of Hoodie Allen 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Sports media is crazy with the 24/7 coverage 
The first R-rated movie I ever saw was “BASEketball,” and it is still one of my favor­ite films of all time. On top of being one of the hilarious con­coctions of Trey Parker and Matt Stone, the creators of “South Park,” released in 1998, it is one of the most prophetic stories of this, or any, generation. 
For those that have not seen it, I strongly suggest it. The opening sequence features a voice-over talking about the destruction of sports as we once knew it as a noble endeavor. What was once the realm of heroes and legend­ary figures has descended into nothing more than controlled chaos: players getting traded, end zone dances taking more significance than the play itself, franchises changing cities, stadiums selling them­selves as giant billboards and the ridiculousness of free agency. 
To point out how ridiculous the whole situation is, the nar­rator says, “The Minneapolis Lakers moved to Los Angeles where there are no lakes, the Oilers moved to Tennessee where there is no oil, the Jazz moved to Salt Lake City where they don’t allow music.” 
While it is comical, it speaks to an inherent truth in the sporting world today: at times, it is utterly ridiculous. Think about it. The Tim Tebow trade. “The Decision” by LeBron James. The constant debates over whether the Kings need to move from Sacramento to a bigger market. Orlando’s an­nouncement that Dwight How­ard would be allowed to decide the fate of both the Magic general manager and the head coach at the end of the season. It is all so ridiculous. 
I see people complaining on Facebook and Twitter about how they hate hearing about Tebow on “Sportscenter,” about how they don’t care where Peyton Manning wound up in free agency, about how silly “The Decision” was. 
But as a journalist, I under­stand why these characters get so much airtime. The journal­ist’s job is to tell the most in­triguing and relevant story. If there is no story, the journalist has to find one. That’s why we 

Matthew Robison 
Sports Writer 
see a hovering video feed of Peyton Manning landing in Miami to talk to the Dolphins’ executives. That’s why we heard what Chris Broussard’s sources had to say about where LeBron James would end up. If you really hate it, go ahead and turn off the television. 
The sad truth is this is where sports have headed. Instead of the lunch table discussing how superhu­man Kevin Durant’s 50-point performance was, or how Albert Pujols put two balls into orbit last night, we are talking about LeBron’s off-handed comment about possibly making a return to Cleveland. 
For me, the healthiest way to look at the whole situation is to separate the two main components of the sporting world today: entertainment and sports. I consider the final out in the World Series, the elation and heartbreak that follow great moments in sports. When Magic coach Stan van Gundy tells the press, “If they want to fire me…please somebody fire me,” that’s entertainment. 
ESPN makes no apolo­gies about what they do with the news. They are the Entertainment and Sports Programming Network. In the 1990s, the entertainment part meant they would show billiards and lumberjack competitions. Now, it means we get to hear about today’s sporting news 24 hours a day, with a clock in the right hand corner of the screen telling us how much time is left be­fore the MLB trade deadline, or the NFL Draft, or until NBA free agency begins. 
It may be troubling, but it’s not going to change how much I love sports. I’m still going to marvel when Ed Reed sacrifices life and limb for an interception, when Vince Carter jumps clear over a 7-footer for a dunk, when Alexander Ovechkin scores a goal at an impossible angle while sliding across the ice on back and when Jus­tin Verlander makes batters look silly for two-and-a-half hours. That is why we watch sports: to get a glimpse of the superhuman in all of us. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 



Jones to retire after 2012 season 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA — Flanked by his family, his former manager and a group of teammates he hates to leave behind, Chip­per Jones choked up a bit and delivered the news that’s been looming for years: 
It’s time to call it a career. 
This time, he means it. 

With his 40th birthday ap­proaching and a long string of injuries slowing him down, Jones announced Thursday he will retire after one more season as the Atlanta Braves’ third baseman. 
“I have fulfilled everything,” Jones said during a news con­ference at the team’s spring training stadium in Kissim­mee, Fla. “There’s nothing left for me to do.” 
Jones, who has spent his en­tire 18-year career with Atlan­ta, actually planned to retire after the 2010 season, only to change his mind. As he battled leg issues this spring, he open­ly wondered if he’d be able to make it through the season. 
So, he’ll give it one more year with the Braves, then become a full-time dad to his three chil­dren. 
“I just want to make it final,” Jones said. 
He praised the Braves or­ganization, calling Bobby Cox “the greatest manager any of us will ever know,” thanked team executives John Schuer­holz and Frank Wren for build­ing a perennial winner and fought back tears as he turned to his teammates. 
“I’ve been thinking about this and the reason I stayed around is you guys,” Jones said. “I played on teams where clubhouse cohesion wasn’t there. That never happened with you guys.” 
Around baseball, Jones was praised for this long, consis­tent career, which included the NL MVP award in 1999, an NL batting title in 2008, seven All-Star games — and, quite pos­sibly, will include an induction ceremony at Cooperstown. 
Even fans of the rival New York Mets, who were con­tinually battered by Jones as crowds in the Big Apple tried to rattle him by chanting his actual name (“Larry! Larry! Larry” was a familiar chant at old Shea Stadium), offered up nothing but respect. 
Jones already reciprocated by naming one of his children Shea. 
“He’s a great ballplayer who has always been a Mets nem­esis,” said New York fan John Ring, speaking before Mets’ spring training game in Port St. Lucie, Fla. “I mean, he just tore them apart. He’s been an asset to the game, but as Mets fans we never wanted to see him in the lineup.” 
Mets third baseman David Wright grew up wanting to be like Jones, which didn’t change after they both wound up in the big leagues. 
“He’s been one of those guys where I always looked across and tried to take away some of the things from his game and apply it to mine,” Wright said. “He’s been so consistent, so good for so long and been part of a lot of great times. It’s going be a lit­tle odd looking across there and not seeing Chipper in uniform, that’s for sure.” 
New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter, whose 17-year stint with one team is surpassed only by Jones among active players, has always been impressed by the way the Atlanta player car­ries himself: a wad of tobacco in his jaw, a batting glove always dangling out of his back pocket when he took the field. 
“He just looks like a ball­player, you know? His actions, his mannerisms, everything he does,” Jeter said. “I really can’t say enough good things about him. The way he’s gone about his business, his consistency, how he took care of himself, what he means to the team. He could flat-out hit. He’s a Hall of Famer, for sure.” 
He should be a first-ballot se­lection, according to Cox, who attended the news conference with the only other manager Jones will have in his big league career, current Braves skipper Fredi Gonzalez. 
Schuerholz, the former gener­al manager and now team presi­dent, and Wren are the only GMs of the Jones era. Stability meant a lot to the third baseman, who never seriously considered leav­ing the Braves. 

“To have two top executives and only two managers at one table after all these years says a lot about this organization,” Jones said. “There have been times when I could have gone into free agency to see if the grass is greener, but it never was.” 
While other players came and went, Jones was always the one constant in the clubhouse. 
“He was the face of the fran­chise,” said former teammate Andruw Jones, who’s now with the Yankees. “You don’t see it too much any more. It’s hard for players to stay with one organi­zation.” 
No matter what happens in his final season, Chipper Jones will go down as one of the game’s greatest switch-hitters, a guy who could hit for average (.304 in his career) and power (454 homers and 1,561 RBIs). 
Shortly after reporting for what will be his final spring training, Jones marveled that he was still with the Braves with his milestone birthday coming up in April. 
“Never in my mid-20s would I have given myself a snowball’s chance to be in camp and have a job at 40 years old,” Jones told The Associated Press. “But I like to think I’ve kept myself in pretty good shape over the years. The skills are still there to go out and get it done. I don’t know for how much longer, but we’re going to ride it as long as we can.” 
That ride lasts one more sea­son. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

garage, walk to campus. $1200/mo UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t a happy home, a stay-at-home disabilities. Located on the shores 
FOR SALE PERSONAL 
+ utilities 847-420-7589 go it alone. Notre Dame has many mom and a large, devoted Catholic of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI. 
resources in place to assist you. family (9 cousins and growing!). We Positions available for Counselors, House for rent. 3BR $600 per If you or someone you love needs very much look forward to talking Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/ bedroom. Utilities included. 506 No confidential support or assistance, to you. Call Kim & Robert (855) Arts &Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, 2002 Audi A4 1.8T quattro. 
ND Ave. Call 574-272-2940 please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 788-2810. Therapists, Food Service, and 
Excellent condition.85,000 If you used Yaz/Yazmin/Ocella birth 1-7819. For more information, Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, mi.$8,000. 574-273-8683 control pills or a NuvaRing Vaginal visit ND’s website at: http:// responsible, and love children. 
Ring Contraceptive between 2001 

Faculty or Grad Students. pregnancysupport@nd.edu WANTED June 10 through August 5. $1800 
and the present and developed Spacious 2br,2-1/2 ba with plus room & board, and the 
blood clots, suffered a stroke, heart 

FOR RENT LR,DR,fam rm, 4-season rm, AC, experience of a lifetime provided. 
attack or required gall bladder Sec Sys, 2-car gar, near campus, removal, you may be entitled A Baby is a Blessing: Adoption SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Download application: www. bsmt, fen. yrd + utility rm, no pets. to compensation. Call Attorney We’re both educators who value Make a difference in the life of a baycliff.org. For more information Faculty or Grad Students Only. 
$1500/mo + utilities. learning, family and our happy 8 yr child! Summer therapy camp for call or e-mail: (906) 345-9314 or
Charles Johnson, 1-800-535-5727. 
Immac 3br with large rec room, 262-332-0015 marriage. We’ll give your child children with physical baycliff@baycliff.org. 

NFL 

Injury worries impact punishment 

Associated Press 
When Hall of Fame tail­back Tony Dorsett was getting slammed to the turf in the 1970s, or Super Bowl-winning QB Joe Theismann’s leg was being grue­somely broken by Lawrence Tay­lor in the 1980s, it was just foot­ball. 
Now things are different. 
Scientific studies show head trauma can leave long-term damage. Hundreds of former players are suing the NFL in fed­eral court, saying they weren’t protected properly from injury. Congress is paying close atten­tion. 
Part of the reason the New Or­leans Saints were punished so severely for their bounty system could be, as Commissioner Roger Goodell indicated when explain­ing his decision, that nothing is as critical for the league right now as the safety of players and real concern about concussions. 
In the current climate, those issues seem to permeate every decision made at NFL headquar­ters. 
“They’re not unrelated. You can certainly see the rules of the National Football League have changed over the years. What used to be considered normal player conduct that could result in serious injury has been ex­pressly prohibited by the rules,” Sen. Dick Durbin said in a tele­phone interview Thursday. 
“Teams are dramatically more sensitive now to concussions and how soon a player is ready to play again. It shows awareness of the fact that what happens on a foot­ball field is more than a game. Some of these injuries can have an impact on a person’s life. It also is an indication that those of us, as fans, should hold these leagues to a higher standard.” 

Durbin, an Illinois Democrat and the assistant Senate majority leader, is organizing a Judiciary Committee hearing to examine whether bounties in major sports should be considered a crime. He plans to invite witnesses from the NFL, along with officials from the NBA, NHL, NCAA and Major League Baseball. 
At an October 2009 House hearing on brain trauma in the NFL, Goodell was taken to task by lawmakers for not doing enough about concussions amid a growing body of medical lit­erature linking head injuries in football with brain disease. That set in motion a series of changes to the league’s policies on head injuries — and they keep on coming. 
On Wednesday, a few hours after the NFL announced its un­precedented penalties against the Saints, the chairman of the competition committee, Atlanta Falcons president Rich McKay, talked about proposals that will be considered next week at the owners’ meetings in Palm Beach, Fla. 
“The protection of the players is the big thing,” New York Jets coach Rex Ryan said. “You don’t have a league without the play­ers.” 
Goodell’s stern punishment of those involved in the Saints’ bounty system sent a message to everyone in the NFL: Do not encourage deliberately injuring players. Goodell also was harsh because of attempts to cover up the bounties. 
He suspended Saints head coach Sean Payton for all of next season, and indefinitely banned their former defensive coordi­nator, Gregg Williams, who was recently hired by the St. Louis Rams. Saints general manager Mickey Loomis was barred for half of 2012, an assistant coach got a six-game ban, and the team also was docked two second-round draft picks and $500,000. 
Pittsburgh Steelers safety Ryan Clark thought the penalty for Payton was “extreme.” 
“They made a point because the coaches were involved,” Clark said. “They were going to get somebody.” 
When the NFL first made its investigation of the Saints pub­lic on March 2, droves of former players talked about how off­the-books incentives have been offered in NFL locker rooms for years and years — not on the scale of what happened in New Orleans, but illegal nonetheless. 
Theismann, for example, in­sisted bounties were put on him. 
“In a sick way, I guess it’s flat­tering,” he said recently. “If you had a bounty on you, you were a pretty good player and they wanted to get rid of you.” 
One of the ex-players suing the NFL, former Saints receiver Joe Horn, has no doubt there’s a con­nection between the concussion-related court cases and Goodell’s actions. 
“All of a sudden, he wants to pop his chest out and set up these (punishments)? If he was a great commissioner and he really cared about player safety, he would have fined teams five years ago for what happened, because it happened back then,” Horn said. “(Goodell) should fine himself $7 million, because as the commissioner, he should have known years ago this same thing was happening with every other team in the NFL.” 
NHL 
Pittsburgh tops Preds, clinches playoff berth 




Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Evgeni Mal-kin scored twice, James Neal had four assists and the Pitts­burgh Penguins clinched a playoff spot with a 5-1 victory over the Nashville Predators on Thursday night. 
Chris Kunitz, Matt Cooke and Pascal Dupuis also scored to help Pittsburgh pull within a point of the New York Rangers for the top spot in the Eastern Conference with nine games remaining. Marc-Andre Fluery made 29 saves for his NHL-leading 40th victory. 
Pittsburgh captain Sidney Crosby was held without a goal for the 12th straight game and failed to score a point, but it hardly stopped the Penguins from winning their ninth straight home game to keep the heat on the Rangers. 
Nashville’s Alexander Radu­lov scored in his return to the NHL after four years in Russia, but the Penguins picked apart Predators goalie Pekka Rinne. The league saves leader allowed two goals in the first 5 minutes. 
Nashville hopes Radulov will take some of the pressure off the always busy Rinne as the franchise gears up for the post­season. The talented 25-year­old left the Predators after the 2007-08 season to go home to Russia, where he won two MVPs and one title while playing for the KHL’s Salavat Yulayev Ufa. 
Radulov re-wrote the KHL record book — he’s the league’s career goals leader — before Nashville general manager Da­vid Poile lured him back to the team that took him in the first round of the 2004 draft. He made an immediate impact, scoring his first NHL regular-season goal since March 20, 2008, when he beat Fleury on a rebound midway through the second. 
One problem, all it did was cut Pittsburgh’s lead to 4-1. While Radulov might have become the best player in Russia, Malkin has developed into arguably the best player on the planet. 
Malkin needed less than 90 seconds to score in his fifth straight game, beating Rinne with a knuckling slap shot from the right circle to give Pitts­burgh a quick lead. Rinne ap­peared to be in position to make the save only to watch the puck deflect off his glove and into the net. 
Less than 3 minutes later the lead was 2-0 as the red-hot Dupuis deflected a Kris Letang shot from the point between Rinne’s legs. Dupuis’ 22nd goal of the season extended his points streak to a career-best eight games. 
And just like that the NHL’s highest-scoring team was off the races. 
Cooke made it 3-0 early in the second period following a nice drop pass from Neal, whose four assists were a career-high. Kunitz added his 22nd later in the period when his crossing pass attempt directed at Crosby deflected off Nashville defense-man Shea Weber’s skate and into the net. 
Radulov’s goal proved but a footnote. Malkin’s second goal of the night and 45th of the sea­son early in the third period pushed his league-leading point total to 95 as he closes in on the Art Ross Trophy awarded to the NHL’s leading scorer. 
The Penguins improved to 13­2-3 against the Western Confer­ence this season, the best mark by an Eastern Conference team. 
It’s a good sign heading into the postseason, a place the franchise is heading for the seventh time in the last eight seasons. 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles host first round of doubleheaders 
Corrigan 
continued from page 24 
page, and it’s that time of year,” Corrigan said. “We’ve started to see a lot of things from the first six [weeks] that make preparing much easier. First, you have more film on the opposition, and you’ve seen a lot of things they do. Second, you have a better sense of yourself. I think we’ll have plenty of time to get ready for Rut­gers.” 
The Scarlet Knights are coming off a trio of one-goal games in their own right, including Saturday’s 7-6 loss to St. John’s. Senior co-captain and midfielder Will Mangan, who was named the Big East Offensive Player of the Week on Monday, leads the team with 20 goals, in­cluding four hat tricks. Cor­rigan said he knows Notre Dame will have to defend players like Mangan, but he feels his team will be well prepared. 
“They’ve got a lot of the guys that we had to defend against last year,” Corri­gan said. “We know that they’ve got a new coach, and our [assistant coach] Brian Fisher has done a good job of watching them and breaking them down, so our guys will have a good idea of who they are by this weekend.” 
With Rutgers averaging 
8.50 goals per game, the Notre Dame defense will need to turn in another stout performance. The Irish have given up an average of 5.50 goals per game, and have held the opposition to five goals or less in four games. 
On the offensive end of the field, the Irish have ratch­eted up their scoring re­cently, with 10 goals against Denver and eight against the Buckeyes. It has been a well-balanced attack thus far, with 16 different play­ers finding the back of the cage this season. This bal­ance has been one of the keys to the recent offensive outburst, according to se­nior attack Sean Rogers. 
“I think we’re doing better [recently] because there are a lot more people contribut­ing,” Rogers said. “Instead of just having one or two guys contribute, we’ve had games like Ohio State, where we had four guys score their first goal of either their ca­reer or season. We’ve also been more patient putting shots on cage and that’s led to better results.” 

Between the newfound of­fensive potency and the reli­able defense, Corrigan said he is pleased with where the Irish stand heading into the Rutgers game. 
“I like where we are,” Cor­rigan said. “We’ve shown the capacity to do every­thing well and that is a tre­mendous thing. During the Denver game we needed to score goals and we scored 10 goals. [Against Ohio State] we needed to make some plays at both ends of the field and on the face-offs and we did …We’ve found a lot of ways to be effective and when you add all the pieces together it bodes well for us moving forward.” 
Notre Dame looks to ex­tend its winning streak when it takes on Rutgers at 1 p.m. at Arlotta Stadium on Sunday. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
NFL 

Bears add Bush to backfield 


Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. — Mi­chael Bush is joining the Chi­cago Bears, perhaps to team with Matt Forte and give the team two hard and effective runners who can alternate punishing defense. 
Or maybe in a more visible role should Forte hold out after he earlier was slapped with the franchise tag. 
Bush played four seasons for the Oakland Raiders, gain­ing 2,642 yards (4.2 yards per carry) and scoring 21 touchdowns. The powerful 245-pound back had his most productive season in 2011, setting career highs in rush­es (256), yards (977), touch­downs (7), receptions (37) and yards receiving (418). He mostly was a backup to Dar­ren McFadden but had nine starts last season when Mc­Fadden was injured. 
“I was told that the rota­tion will be very good,” Bush said in a conference call after signing a four-year deal the Chicago Tribune reported was worth $14 million, with $7 million guaranteed. “I think there are enough carries to go around.” 
Forte, who sprained his knee in early December and missed the final month of the season but went to the Pro Bowl, has not been able to get a long­term deal from the Bears. He was given the franchise tag, meaning he will make $7.742 million next season if there is no new contract reached. 

Forte went to Twitter to ex­press his opinion of the sign­ing of Bush, saying he had been “disrespected.” 
“There’s only so many times a man that has done every­thing he’s been asked to do can be disrespected! Guess the GOOD GUYS do finish last,” his post read. 
Forte finished 2011 with 1,487 yards from scrimmage and 997 rushing in his fourth season. He averaged 4.9 yards per carry. He was the first Chicago running back to make it to the Pro Bowl since Neal Anderson following the 1991 season. 
Bush said he can relate to how Forte feels. 
“It’s just one of those things where you want to be reward­ed for your success. I under­stand, but that has nothing to do with me,” he said. “My job is to come here and play ball. If he wants to hold out, I know what he’s going through. I’m just going to be there doing what I’m supposed to do.” 
Bush said he also visited the Bengals and was planning to go to Seattle before agreeing with the Bears. Re-signing with the Raiders wasn’t much of an option because there not much communication. 
“I haven’t heard too much from them ...” he said, adding he understands the business side of football. “I’m not upset with them.” 
Under new general manager Phil Emery, the Bears have been busy. They traded with the Dolphins for talented but troubled wide receiver Bran­don Marshall and they signed backup quarterback Jason Campbell along with special-teams contributors Blake Costanzo and Eric Weems. 
They also re-signed defen­sive end Israel Idonije, defen­sive back Tim Jennings, tight end Kellen Davis, backup quarterback Josh McCown and safety Craig Steltz. 

By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
After opening the season with 12 neutral site and road games, the Belles finally start the home slate of their sched­ule with two doubleheaders Saturday and Sunday at the Saint Mary’s College softball field. 
Saturday is the conference opener in addition to the home opener for the Belles (10-2), as they face Adrian College. The first game starts at 1 p.m. 
The Belles look to rebound from their second loss of the season after a doublehead­er split at Wheaton College 
on Tues­day. Both games were de­
“I’m happy with the way we 
cided by 
started in non-conference 
one run. 
play, and we hope to 
The Belles 
took the carry the momentum first game into MIAA play. This is 3-2, but the most well-rounded fell behind team we’ve had, and 5-0 in the they bring a really good 
second 
attitude to the diamond.” 
contest, before 
Erin Sullivan 
falling 
Belles coach 
short on a 
comeback in a 5-4 loss. How­ever, key players for the Belles were sidelined for the doublehead­er. 
“I’m happy with the way we started in non-conference play, and we hope to carry the momentum into MIAA play,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “This is the most well-rounded team we’ve had, and they bring a really good atti­tude to the diamond.” 
Senior Monica Palicki and sophomore Callie Selner lead the Belles on the mound. Palicki is already 4-0 for the Belles, including a complete game, 2-0 shutout against Mount Saint Mary (NY) in Florida. Selnar enters the weekend at 5-1, coming off a complete-game win in the first game against Wheaton. 
Meanwhile, the Adrian Col­lege Bulldogs (7-6) are com­ing off a doubleheader loss to Concordia (Mich.) last Satur­day. The Bulldogs started last season 23-0, before losing their first game of the season to the Belles on April 9. They finished 35-7 and remain a dangerous team, according to Sullivan, as they return most of their roster. 
“Adrian knows how to win big games, and they have a great pitcher in [senior] Kelly Eberhardt,” Sullivan said. “We need to jump on her mis­takes and bring our ‘A’ game 
in order to win two games from them.” 
Eberhardt led the Bull­dogs at 22-6 in 2011 with a 1.58 ERA and 213 strikeouts in 172.2 in­nings. 
On Sun­day, the Belles face a non-con­ference test in a double­header at 1 
p.m. against 
North Park University (Ill.), which enters the weekend at 10-4. 
“The Vikings are scrappy, fast and two out of their three starters are lefties,” Sullivan said. “We scheduled them be­cause we want to play chal­lenging teams in our region in order to get ranked and because we can handle better competition.” 
The Belles return to the road on Monday, when they travel to Defiance College (Ohio) for a doubleheader be­ginning at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 



ND SOFTBALL 

ND to face young Hoya squad 



By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
After a challenging eight-game stretch over spring break, the Irish head to Wash­ington for three games against a young Georgetown program. 
Senior infielder Alexa Mal­donado said Georgetown (13­are experienced with play­ing multiple games in a short amount of time. Maldonado said the key to success would be keeping their energy up throughout the long weekend. 
“The most challenging thing for this weekend will be to play consistently well for all three games,” Maldonado said. “It 
17), as new Big East ri­vals, will be good practice for the team to sharpen a few of their weak­nesses. 
“They are still a relatively new and devel­oping program that recently joined the Big East,” Mal­donado said. “We should definitely beat them, but we can’t go in thinking it will be easy. We 

“I’m really expecting our pitching staff to step up and throw lights out. When they are on fire, it affects the demeanor and intensity of the whole team.” 
Alexa Maldonado Irish senior infielder 
is very im­portant that we start off conference play with great soft­ball, so we can roll into our next games.” 
Maldo­nado said th rough ­out practice this week, the team has been focused on performing well under pressure situations. 


need to look to approach every game the same way no matter who we are playing.” 
The games against George­town will mark the beginning of Big East conference play. The Irish (11-10) have won four of their last eight games and 
Bednarski 
continued from page 24 
Lian Osier captured nine victories and junior Abi­gail Nichols finished with five wins. 
Bednarski was quick to mention the work is not over. The women’s compe­tition continues today, and the men’s squad competes Saturday and Sunday. The NCAA champion will not be crowned until Sunday evening. 
“We are still not win­ners,” Bednarski said. “We are tied for first place with two big teams.” 
No. 2 Princeton is in a close fourth-place posi­tion, trailing the three leaders by only one point, and No. 3 St. John’s is a mere three points behind. 
Bednarski also praised the two teams atop the leaderboard with the Irish. 
Many of the recent losses have been attributed to high-error rates, a tendency Notre Dame intends to have under control in the games this weekend. 
“When game time comes around, there will be nothing thrown at us that we haven’t 
“[The Buckeyes are] fencing from their own site. So it’s really hard to fence against them,” Bed­narski said. “The other is one of the best teams in the history of fencing, Penn State.” 
Despite being the de­fending national champi­ons, the Irish have had an underdog role all season. This weekend is Notre Dame’s opportunity to fi­nally prove themselves on the biggest of stages. 
“We have to prove that we are better,” Bednar­ski said. “It will be really very hard. Leadership will probably change during the day. 
“In a race of 10 kilome­ters, we are leading after 10 meters.” 
The  championships  
conti nue  th roughout  the  
weekend  in  Columbus,  
Ohio.  

Contact Matthew Robison at   mrobison@nd.edu 
ROWING 
Irish travel for busy weekend of competition 


By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will aim to con­tinue its fast start to the sea­son with a packed weekend when it participates in two different competitions in two locations over the weekend. 
In their first competition of the season, the Irish won 10 races in the Oak Ridge Invi­tational last weekend. Notre Dame faced stiff competition from top-ranked opposition including top-ranked Vir­ginia and Tennessee as well as the uncertainty of the new season. 
Ultimately, the team se­cured a strong performance in their opening weekend, in­cluding wins in all three of its races. The success gives the Irish momentum going into this weekend’s tough sched­ule. 
“I think last week we didn’t know how fast the other teams were and how fast we were,” junior Abby Meyers said. “But we were successful and I think it helps us going into this weekend with confi­dence.” 
The team starts off the weekend with a head-to-head matchup with Ohio State in Columbus, Ohio on Saturday. The races pit Notre Dame against the top-ranked team in the Central Region and one of the top teams in the entire nation. Tough competi­tion should provide the team with a clearer picture of their abilities. 
“I know that they are stacked as a team but I think if we do everything that we can right we can definitely beat them,” Meyers said. 
After the Ohio State match-up, the Irish will travel to In­dianapolis for a four-team re­gatta the next day. The Irish will race against Indiana, Louisville and Purdue. The short amount of time between the races will put the Irish to the test but last weekend’s experience will help ease the transition. 
“The quick turnaround is something that we’re not re­ally worrying about,” Mey­ers said. “Last weekend, we raced in the morning and af­ternoon on both days. As long as we can recover well like we did before, we shouldn’t have any problems.” 
To continue on the success of last weekend, earlier starts will be the key for the Irish to getting a consistent pace dur­ing the races. 
“From my experience in the first varsity eight boat, we need to get off to better starts and continue that ef­fort throughout the race,” Meyers said. “We just need to be more effective throughout the race.” 
The Irish will travel to Co­lumbus for their one-on-one matchup with Ohio State on Saturday and follow up with a four-team regatta in India­napolis on Saturday. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu 

already seen,” Maldonado said. 
As a senior leader, Maldo­nado said she wants to spend the weekend contributing and encouraging her team through her personal performance on and off the field. She also said she’s expecting her fellow teammates to shine in Wash­ington, especially the pitchers. 
“I’m really expecting our pitching staff to step up and throw lights out,” Maldonado said. “When they are on fire, it affects the demeanor and in­tensity of the whole team.” 
The Irish will begin their three-game weekend against Georgetown on Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 

Irish fix errors before Georgia 

By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
Following a disappointing finish at the Schenkel Invita­tional last weekend, the Irish will return to Georgia this weekend to compete in the Linger Longer Invitational at Reynold’s Plantation Great Water’s Course in Greensboro, Ga. 
Poor play around the greens hampered the Irish at the Schenkel Invitation, but Notre Dame will try to rebound by focusing on the present with a positive attitude, Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. 
“We went into last weekend thinking we could contend and we just didn’t play well at all,” Kubinski said. “We a struggled around the greens 
— chipping, putting. You have to put it behind you. You can’t dwell on it. 
“We can learn maybe a little bit from it, but really it’s just a case of us going out and play­ing a little better this week and I think the guys are moti­vated to do it.  We are looking forward to it.” 
One advantage the Irish will have this weekend is familiar­ity with the course. In addition to playing the at the Reyn­old’s Plantation Great Water’s Course in previous years, the Irish were also able to play the course over spring break. 
“It’s always a good thing to have a familiarity with a course, but then again we had that with the Schenkel and we didn’t play as well,” Kubinski said. “So it’s never a guaran­tee that you are going to do well, but I think the familiar­ity is a good thing in this case because we played it last year and had a chance to play it over spring break and I think we made improvements.” 

To perform well this week­end, the Irish will continue to rely on senior Max Scodro, who finished 13th individu­ally at the Schenkel Invita­tion.  Scodro was also recently named the Big East Golfer of the Week, which adds to an already-lengthy list of acco­lades, including 2011 Big East Player of the Year. 
“[Max Scodro] has proven chance to continue his strong play in the Linger Longer Invi­tational as a part of the Irish lineup. 
“I expect Andrew is going to do well,” Kubinski said. “He is a great competitor. He said this week that he didn’t have the best ball striking a couple of rounds. He actually shot lower scores because he just competed and used that chip­ping and putting.” 
With the unseasonably warm weather in South Bend, the Irish were able to practice 

the last couple of years that he is the best play­er in the Big East,” Kubinski said. “Tee to green, he has just been outstand­ing and then just like any gol f er, when the putts are dropping he goes really 
“[Wednesday] we had a great short game practice and we played a little bit. We are just trying to clear up those scoring shots that we really dropped the ball on last week. I think we made some improvements and we are comfortable and ready to score well this weekend.” 
Jim Kubinski Irish coach 
outside at the Warren Golf Course in prepa­ration for their third competitive tournament of the spring season. 
“[Wednes­day] we had a great short game practice and we played a little bit,” Kubi nski said. “We are just try­ing to clear up those 

low, but when they aren’t he is still in good shape . . . It’s all a credit to the hard work he has put in.” 
Another top golfer emerged for the Irish at the Schenkel Invitational, when sophomore Andrew Lane finished 27th individually. His solid per­formance included below-par scores in his final two rounds. Lane competed as an individu­al last weekend, but will get a scoring shots that we really dropped the ball on last week. I think we made some im­provements and we are com­fortable and ready to score well this weekend.” 
The Irish will travel to Greensboro, Ga., to compete in the Linger Longer Invitation on Saturday and Sunday. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Notre Dame looks to start hot against Marquette 



By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
After a tough loss to rival Michigan on Wednesday, the Irish look to bounce back against Big East opponent Marquette on Sunday. 
Senior captain Shannon Mathews attributed the loss to a lack of momentum after the No. 17 Irish secured the doubles point. 
“It was just kind of disappoint­ing how our singles matches un­folded,” Mathews said. “We had some tough first sets at two and three singles, and both were lost in tiebreakers. We just didn’t battle as hard as we could and let some matches slip away from us.” 
Mathews said she expects Notre Dame to start hot against the Golden Eagles. 
“They’re one of the tougher teams in the Big East,” Mathews said. “But I expect to come out strong in doubles and we’re defi­nitely looking for improvement on our intensity. We’re looking for more of a decisive victory over Marquette.” 
After the tough loss, Mathews said the Irish have been working on improving the smaller aspects of their game. 
“I think the loss definitely showed us that we have things we need to be working on day in and day out in practice,” Mathews said. “In order to beat good teams, it comes down to a couple of points here and there, and you really have to battle ev­ery point and be willing to put everything out there and run ev­erything down.” 
Mathews and senior doubles partner Kristy Frilling, recently given the No. 1 ranking, have struggled lately with their dou­bles competition. Mathews said she and Frilling are intent on en­joying their final weeks as college athletes and putting out their best effort every match. 
“We don’t need to be stressing about changing major things,” Mathews said. “We’re just focus­ing on really enjoying our match­es and as we look toward the Big East and the NCAAs, we just [are] going out every match and giving in our all. This is our last go around and we really want to enjoy it.” 
The Irish will take on Mar­quette on Sunday at the Eck Ten­nis Center at 12 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 



GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Sophomore Frank Dyer races in the 500-yard freestyle in the Shamrock Invitational on Jan. 27. He took second place. 
Finals 
continued from page 24 
mers competing at the Weyerhaeuser King County Aquatic Center in Federal Way, Wash., have been the best competition he has faced this season. 
“This is the Division I na­tional championship, so you can pretty much imagine that any good swimmer — American or foreign — is at this meet,” Dyer said. “[Irish junior Bill Bass] and I have probably met the best swimmers in the coun­try, and it’s one of the best meets to make in the coun­try, so it’s pretty cool.” 
The reigning Big East Most Outstanding Swim­mer, Bass competed in the 200-yard individual medley. He earned 36th place, with a time of 1:47.41. After un­dergoing shoulder surgery nearly a year ago, Bass said he is proud of the recovery he has made. 
“I didn’t swim that good this morning,” Bass said. “I added a couple seconds, but just with my shoulder recov­ering, I’m kind of just happy to be here at this point.” 
Bass said he is looking to enjoy his first-ever appear­ance at the NCAA champi­onships, and is not worry­ing too much about results. 
“Today I was swimming my best event,” he said. “I’m just looking to get some bet­ter times [this weekend]. I’m looking to get the expe­rience and have a good time in the process.” 
Dyer will compete in the 200-yard freestyle today, while Bass competes in the 100-yard butterfly. 
“I was happy with my swim today,” Dyer said. “I think it puts me in a good position for [today]. They are races I think I can re­ally do well in [today] and Saturday.” 
Competition continues Saturday, when Dyer and Bass look to place in the 100-yard free stroke and the 200-yard butterfly re­spectively. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Young Belles look forward after loss 

By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 

After a tough 9-0 to Indi­ana Wesleyan, Saint Mary’s looks to strike back in a dou­bleheader against Wheaton College and Judson.  Belles coach Dale Campbell said the Belles (6-3, 1-0 MIAA) have put the loss behind them and the team will be prepared for the match Saturday. 
“I think we will bounce back fine,” Campbell said. “We understood that [Indi­ana Wesleyan] was a national power. They have been to the MIAA nationals for ten years straight. We are young and developing and we are keep­ing that in perspective.” 
The first match will be a challenge for the Belles, as Wheaton (6-0) is undefeated this spring. Like Saint Mary’s, Judson (0-6) is a young team and a fairly new program. The Eagles will be the compe­tition for the second match of the day. 
“Both are non-conference games but we want to still keep up the intensity,” Camp­bell said. “Wheaton is a good program and Judson from what I understand is an up­and-coming program.” 
The spring break training trip has proved to be invalu­able in preparing the Belles for doubleheaders, as they competed in two doublehead­ers over the course of the week. 
“I don’t think the double­header will affect us at all,” Campbell said. “We have had previous experience with them and done well in both instances. We are going to treat the doubleheader as two individual matches.” 
As of this week, Campbell has met with his three soph­omore captains Mary Cath­erine Faller, Sarah Monte and Margaret Boden to discuss goals for the team. 
“I want to clarify that this meeting was not one for any team drama, but to finally come together and set rea­sonable goals for our team,” Campbell said. “We wanted to let the team gain some ex­perience in play and see what they can do before we ironed out season goals. As of right now, we set performance goals for individuals and we are going to strive to achieve a winning record for the team this year.” 
As of right now, Campbell wants to focus at the present task of the non-conference Wheaton and Judson match­es. 
“Our conference games are the most important, but any match we play in will prepare us for them,” Campbell said. 
The Belles take on the dou­bleheader at 2 p.m. on Satur­day at the Centre Court Ath­letic Club in Hanover Park, Ill. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Kentucky gets serious about IU 


Associated Press 
ATLANTA — At Kentucky, the bar is set a lot higher than most places. 
National championship or bust. 
“It’s Kentucky,” coach John Calipari said. “Do you expect anything else?” 
On Friday night, the Wild­cats will be matched against one of the few college bas­ketball programs that can give them a run for passion and tradition. If Kentucky brings up Adolph Rupp, Indi­ana can quickly counter with Bob Knight. Few fans get as worked up about the game as those in the Bluegrass State — unless you happen be among those hoops-crazy Hoosiers. 
“There’s always been a spe­cial aura around and about Indiana to me,” said coach Tom Crean, “and I would say the same thing about Ken­tucky.” 
With a dozen national titles between them (seven for the Wildcats, five for Indiana), this is about as good as it gets without actually being at the Final Four. Throw in some enticing subplots — from Crean leading a remarkable turnaround in Bloomington after the storied program fell on hard times, to Cali­pari positioning Kentucky for another title run with his latest one-and-likely-done dream team — and there’s no doubt the Georgia Dome will be rockin’ for this South Re­gional semifinal. 
But this is merely a prelude for the top-seeded Wildcats (34-2). Unless they are cut­ting down the nets in New Orleans, this season will be judged a failure. 
“You’re supposed to win every game by 25,” Calipari said. “If you’re winning by 15, what’s the issue? What’s going on with the program? If you lose, God forbid, lose one, how can we lose this game?” 
Fourth-seeded Indiana (27­
8) handed the Wildcats one of their defeats, a buzzer-beat­ing 73-72 victory a couple of weeks before Christmas. While that was a mere speed bump for Kentucky on the way to finishing No. 1 in the rankings, the thrilling win was a huge boost to Indiana’s self-esteem. 
Yep, the Hoosiers are back. 
“I feel like we’re playing with a lot more confidence than we were playing with back then,” said junior for­ward Christian Watford, who hit the winning 3-pointer against the Wildcats, a shot that has been replayed over and over on both sides of the Ohio River. 
Back in 2002, Indiana made a surprising run to the national championship game, held in the same mammoth building where the Hoosiers face the Wildcats. 
But that was a rare blip of success in the post-Knight era. Mike Davis didn’t last. Kelvin Sampson was forced out by allegations of seri­ous NCAA violations. Taking over a program in tatters, Cream’s first team went 6-25 and managed only one win in the Big Ten. 
Over the last two seasons, it was still difficult to detect even a blip of light at the end of the tunnel. The Hoosiers went a combined 22-41 over­all, just 7-29 in conference play. 
“When you’re coming off what we’ve dealt with the last couple of years, you have no choice but to treat every game as the most important game,” Crean said. “If you do that enough, it leads to mo­ments like this.” 
Kentucky won 24 straight before losing to Vanderbilt in the championship game of the Southeastern Conference tournament. In a way, that might’ve helped the Wild­cats, removing the burden of a winning streak before they headed off to the NCAAs. They barely broke a sweat in their first two games. 
“Their team is clicking on all cylinders,” Crean said. 
The Hoosiers coach is most impressed by the way Cali­pari — for the third year in a row — has molded a collec­tion of high school stars into a powerhouse college team. 
Anthony Davis, Michael Kidd-Gilchrist and Marquis Teague could very well be the latest batch of Kentucky blue-chippers to stop off in Lexington for only a year on their way to the NBA. But they hardly come across as a bunch of kids worried about individual stats at the ex­pense of the team’s success. 
Three players have taken more shots than Davis, the team’s top scorer and defen­sive stopper. Kidd-Gilchrist ranks fifth on the team in field-goal attempts. 
Darius Miller, one of only two seniors on the Kentucky roster, said this group seems to have meshed better than Calipari’s first two Kentucky teams. 
“Everybody gets along. We really care about each other,” Miller said. “I think the main point is we have a lot of fun with everything we do. You see us laughing and smiling on the court, clapping, and you see all the emotion we leave on the court.” 
Crean has his own super freshman, 6-foot-11 Cody Zeller. He leads the Hoosiers in scoring (15.5 points a game) and rebounding (6.5), giving Indiana an offensive weapon with at least a fight­ing chance against Davis. 
Davis’ presence in the lane allows the Wildcats to cheat on the perimeter, because they know they’ve got a last line of defense who led the nation in blocked shots (4.6 a game). 
During that December meeting, Indiana managed to get Davis in foul trouble and limit him to 24 minutes 
— a strategy the Hoosiers would certainly like to repli­cate in the rematch. But the freshman has played with much more discipline since then, called for no more than three fouls in any game. 
That’s what Calipari likes to see. 
“It’s simple what I tell these guys,” he said. “It’s not football. It is not a touch­down (if they score). We’ll score seven seconds later. If you break down, let ‘em score. Don’t foul. I just say it over and over.” 
While the border rivals meet regularly during the regular season, this will be the first time since 1983 
— and only the fourth time overall — that they’ve faced off in the NCAA tournament. That only adds to the hype. 
“There’s a lot of household names that were coaches, players,” Crean said. “A lot of household-name teams, where people can remember a year and remember a team, and they can remember a lot of things about them.” 
There’s only one way Ken­tucky fans want to remem­ber its team. 
Champions. 
“I love our fans,” Calipari said. “They’re crazy. They watch the game tapes three times. I don’t watch the game tapes three times. But that’s coaching and playing in Ken­tucky. It’s a little different.” 
TENNIS 
Williams makes strong return at Key Biscayne 



Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. — Ser­ena Williams looked right at home, and not just because her purple dress matched the color of the court. 
Playing in her backyard tour­nament for the first time since 2009, the five-time champion beat wild card Zhang Shuai 6-2, 6-3 on Thursday at the Sony Er­icsson Open. 
The victory marked Williams’ return to tournament tennis af­ter a two-month absence. It was her first match at Key Biscayne since she lost to Victoria Aza­renka in the final three years ago. 
“I was really nervous out there,” Williams said. “I haven’t played here for so long, and I wanted to do well. My worst fear actually was as long as I don’t hit a ball in the stands, I’ll be good. I didn’t do that today, so it worked out well for me.” 
Williams lives two hours up Interstate 95 in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., with sister Ve­nus, who won Wednesday play­ing her first singles match since August. 
American Ryan Harrison, a wild card entry, rallied past Polito Starace 6-7 (6), 6-4, 6-4 and will next face two-time champion Roger Federer. The second-round match will be a gauge of progress for the 19-year-old Harrison, who is ranked 73rd but has yet to beat a top-10 player. 
“He’s very talented,” Federer said, “and I’m sure he’s going to be making his move up the rankings very easily this year and in the coming years. He has a big game.” 
No. 2-seeded Maria Sharapo­va overcame 12 double-faults and erased 10 break points to rally past Shahar Peer 4-6, 6-3, 6-3. 
Two-time champion Kim Cli­jsters won for the second day in a row, beating No. 14-seeded Julia Goerges 6-2, 7-5. No. 13 Jelena Jankovic lost her open­ing match to Mona Barthel 6-0, 6-3. 
Reigning U.S. Open champion Samantha Stosur beat qualifier Valeria Savinykh 6-4, 6-0. 
Health issues prevented Wil­liams from playing at Key Bis­cayne in 2010 and 2011, and a left ankle injury has slowed her this year. Aside from two Fed Cup victories in February, she was playing for the first time since she lost in the fourth round at the Australian Open. 
Williams, who received a first-round bye because she’s seeded 10th, looked fit but rusty and endured some sloppy mo­ments. At one point she froze in a pose behind the baseline, hands on her hips as she fumed after making a flurry of mis­takes. 
“I got a little frustrated,” she said. “My frustration is more like a motivation frustration, so it helps me.” 
While her returns were er­ratic, she served six aces and lost only seven of 34 points on her first serve. 
Williams said she found her older sister’s first-round victory inspiring. Venus was diagnosed last summer with a fatigue-causing autoimmune disease, and Serena has tried to help her sister adjust to a restricted diet by keeping unhealthy food out of the kitchen. 
Best friends since childhood, the sisters continue to share a home as celebrity millionaire adults, and Serena laughed when asked about the arrange­ment. 
“Yeah, we probably should have moved out a long time ago,” she said. “Honestly, it’s ri­diculous now, like we have kind of held each other back. 
“Hey, we’re in for the long run. That’s like my husband. We’re always laughing togeth­er. You know, I tell her every­thing, so it’s fun.” 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Undefeated Irish begin Big East play 



By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor 
The second season begins now. 
No. 6 Notre Dame, after starting its season with six consecutive vic­tories, opens Big East play Satur­day with a game against Louisville. 
“We’re looking at this as an 0-0 game,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said. “Neither one of us has played a Big East team yet and we’re both looking for our first win.” 
The Irish (6-0) return to Arlotta Stadium following a trio of games over spring break that included wins in Boston over Boston Univer­sity and in Florida over Yale and Cornell. Halfpenny said the games in Florida helped the team prepare for the warm weather when they returned to South Bend. 
“We’ve just trained in this, so it’s not a shock to our system when 
Piane 
continued from page 24 
sity of Texas will be there, Rice will be there, obvious­ly, Houston should be there. There will be a smattering of other schools — there will be about 20 or 30 schools there — but those are prob­ably the best. There will be very good competition in all the events.” 
The meet represents the first competition for most of Notre Dame’s athletes since the Alex Wilson Invitational nearly three weeks ago. 
On Feb. 19, the Irish men captured the fifth Big East indoor title in program his­tory while the women fin­ished fourth. On March 10, all six of the Irish athletes competing in the NCAA in­door championships earned All-American honors in a weekend highlighted by the men’s distance medley relay team’s gold-medal finish. Se­nior Kevin Schipper earned a fourth-place finish in the pole vault, with a personal-best jump of 5.45 meters and senior multi-eventer Maddie Buttinger earned a bronze medal in the pentathlon with her school-record score of 4,269. 
The Irish hope to carry some of the momentum they gained during the indoor season over to the spring. 
“The kids have all trained and they have trained very well,” Piane said. “I think they are well prepared.” 

coached team,” Halfpenny said. “Their top two scoring threats are very dynamic. Their systems and strategies are very good. They’re full of athletes. They’re a little it youthful on paper, but they’re al­ready seven games deep.” 
The Cardinals boast just two wins — over Longwood and Pres­byterian — but have already faced top-ranked Northwestern and No. 15 Ohio State. The Irish defeated the Buckeyes 16-7 earlier this sea­son. 
Sophomore midfielder Nikki Boltja leads the Cardinals with 28 goals thus far after notching just six during her freshman cam­paign. Sophomore attacks Jamie Redding and Hillary Bushway — both with double-digit point fig­ures — are also main contributors for Louisville. 
“[Redding] has some nice expe­rience from last season and then they also have Bushway on there who has done a good job for them,” Halfpenny said. “As usual, we’re going to take a look at their top scoring threats and come up with a game plan for all of them.” 
Halfpenny stressed the im­portance of winning conference games to her team this week. 
“I’ve been doing this too long to not understand that the second season is a new season and that’s the conference season,” Halfpenny said. “There is basically a golden ticket up for grabs with winning that automatic bid. 
“[Winning the first conference game] just continues momentum. It builds confidence.” 
The Irish and the Cardinals both open up conference play Saturday at 1 p.m. at Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at   mdefrank@nd.edu 
Aoki 
continued from page 24 
biggest hurdle would come in the form of Pittsburgh senior left-hander Matt Iannazzo, who has the most wins of any pitcher in school history and is expected to start Friday. 
“Their Friday guy [Iannaz­zo] has been in the league for a long time, has had success in the league, so for us we’re going to need to battle pret­ty hard in that game,” Aoki said. “I think Hudge [senior right-hander Will Hudgins] is going to need to pitch well to compete with that kid.” 
After Hudgins pitches in the opening game of the se­ries, the Irish will send ju­nior right-hander Adam Nor­ton to the mound Saturday and hand the ball to sopho­more righty Sean Fitzgerald on Sunday. 
Aoki also said freshman right-hander Pat Connaugh­ton might pitch in a game this weekend. Connaughton, also a member of the Notre Dame basketball team, re­joined the baseball team and pitched 1.2 innings Tuesday against Eastern Michigan (6­13), just days after the Irish basketball team was elimi­nated from the NCAA tour­nament. 
“I think as the situations dictate, for sure, we want to get him in there,” Aoki said. “But for this weekend we’ll use him out of the bullpen, and then depending on what his usage is this weekend then it might be that he gets another start on Tuesday depending on what kind of usage we have for him this weekend.” 
Although the Big East coaches’ pre-season poll pre­dicted an eighth-place finish for the Panthers — a drop from last season, when they finished third in the con­ference — Aoki said Pitts­burgh’s starters will provide a challenge for the Irish. 
“They’ve got some guys from a pitching staff stand­point who have put up some decent numbers,” Aoki said. “They’re not quite as prolif­ic with the bat as they were a year ago, but I still think they’re doing a pretty good job competing there, so I think it’ll be a good test for us.” 
Aoki said that the series against Pitt will be a good indicator of how well Notre Dame has adjusted through­out the season. 
“I don’t think we have to­tally answered every part of our lineup and everything else, but we’ve learned a lot more about our team going into it,” Aoki said. “We’ve got a little two-game win streak going into it, and I’m excited to open at home.” 
Irish junior second base­man Frank DeSico said he and his teammates are eager for the raised stakes of con­ference play. 
“We’re always excited to start conference play,” DeSico said. “We don’t want to take any game any dif­ferently, any midweek game any differently from any conference game, but there’s that extra spark, that extra motivation that goes along with conference play. I think we’re all gearing up for it and ready to go, and we’re happy that it’s home.” 
Hudgins will throw out the first pitch of Friday’s game against Pittsburgh at 5:35 
p.m. at Eck Stadium. Satur­day’s game will begin at 2:05 p.m., and series finale will start at 1:05 p.m. on Sunday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
we train in 80-degree weather all week long,” Halfpenny said. “If we can really stay focused on our game, I think we’re getting a pre­view of the end of April might look like.” 
At the beginning of the season, Halfpenny said the Irish would be developing talent not only through­out the year, but also during indi­vidual games. She said the plan has not changed, despite the team’s hot start. 
“Just because we won some games here, that’s no different,” Halfpenny said. “While we have a nice mix of veterans and youthful players on the field, we are continu­ously developing individual games and unit strategies throughout the course of the games.” 
Louisville (2-5) enters the con­test on the heels of a 20-10 loss to Jacksonville last Saturday. 
“I think they’re a very well-
The move outside brings with it several changes in the list of events, most no­tably for the throwing team. 
“Some of the events change, obviously,” Piane said. “You are not going to see the 60-meter [dash], it goes to a 100-meter [dash]. The hurdles go to 110-me­ters for the men, 100-meters for the women and there is the 400-meter hurdles. And you add things like javelin, discus and the hammer, so there are quite a few of ad­justments that have to be made.” 
Further additions in the outdoor season in­clude the steeplechase, the 10,000-meter run, the hep­tathlon and the 4x100-meter relay. 
Despite the shuffling of events and the change in venues, Notre Dame has not changed its mindset or goals. 
“We still have the same goals that we have in in­door — to do well at the Big East meet, to win the Big East meet and to get people to the NCAA’s,” Piane said. “We are well on our way to that. We have a distinct goal [at the Victor Lopez Invita­tional] — we have to get kids qualified for the Big East meet this weekend, and we will.” 
The Irish will compete in the first entry to their out­door season today and Sat­urday in Houston. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, March 23, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Defending the castle 
Notre Dame looks to continue winning streak against the Scarlet Knights 

ANDREW CHENG/The Observer 
Freshman midfielder Will Corrigan carries the ball in a game against Penn State on Feb. 26 in Arlotta Stadium. The Irish lost 4-3 in overtime but have won the past five matches. 

By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer
 Coming off a rare mid­week game Wednesday against Ohio State, the No. 6 Irish open up Big East play and look to make it five wins in a row when they host Rutgers on Sunday. 
The Irish (5-1) have now won four consecutive one-goal games, including an 8-7 win over the Buckeyes (3-5) in their first weekday game of the season. Be­fore moving on to Rutgers (4-4), though, Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said the team needs to rest and re­cover after two hard-fought games in four days. 
“The first thing we do is we take a day off,” Corrigan said. “[The players] need that right now. They need to get back and relax and get back to school and take care of the other things that they need to take care of. We’ll [practice] Friday and Satur­day, and with no school Sat­urday, that gives us some extra time.” 

In addition to extra time to prepare, the Irish have more knowledge of the op­position and their own team. Corrigan said this ex­tra familiarity makes prep­aration for teams such as the Scarlet Knights easier as they delve into the sec­ond half of the regular sea­son. 
“We have to turn the 

see CORRIGAN/page 16 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Outdoor season to open with Victor Lopez Invite 


By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Coming off strong per­formances in the Big East indoor championships and the NCAA indoor champi­onships, the Irish prepare to leave the comforts of en­closure tracks behind and venture outside. 
The Irish will compete in their first outdoor meet of the year this weekend when they travel to Hous­ton for the Victor Lopez In­vitational. 
The team decided not to send any athletes to the Ala­bama Relays, which is open only to multi-eventers and began Thursday and con­cludes today. Instead, the Irish will travel in full force to Texas. 
The Invitational, hosted by Rice University, will fea­ture other prominent Texas schools among a deep field. 
“It should be a pretty good meet,” Irish coach Joe Piane said. “Usually, the Univer­

see PIANE/page 22 
FENCING 
Irish stand in first place after day one of NCAAs 

By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
After one day of compe­tition at the NCAA cham­pionships in Columbus, Ohio, the No. 4 women’s squad has positioned themselves in first place, tied with No. 5 Penn State and No. 1 Ohio State with 51 points. 
“We have to be satisfied with the performance of our young team,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “They are less expe­rienced. If they are lead­ing after the first day, you should be happy.” 
Freshmen epees Ashley Severson and Nicole Ameli went 10-4 on the day, lead­ing the women’s squad. In the foil, junior Grace Hart­man also went 10-4, while freshman Madison Zeiss went 7-7. In sabre, junior 


see BEDNARSKI/page 18 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Dyer sets school time record at nationals 

By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish did not take long to bring home a new school record at the NCAA champi­onships Thursday, as soph­omore Frank Dyer recorded the best 500-yard freestyle in school history. 
Dyer — who finished in 44th place in the event last season — jumped to 19th place in his second year at nationals with a time of 
4:17.19. The top-16 finish­ers qualify for the finals, while the next two serve as alternates. 
With the school record, Dyer regained his title as the fastest swimmer of the event in the Big East, beat­ing out Louisville senior Ri­ley Martin. 
“It was really special be­cause he was one of the big­gest competitors from Lou­isville in December,” Dyer said. “[Since then], I have strived to get better — not to beat him, but to get back the record that I held last year. It’s pretty good to get a best time at this meet.” 
Dyer said the 235 swim-


see FINALS/page 20 
BASEBALL 

Pittsburgh pitcher poses challenge 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 

The Irish will begin con­ference play this weekend with a three-game home stand against Pittsburgh. 
The Panthers (10-8) won two of their three games against the Irish (12-7) during last year’s series and Irish coach Mik Aoki hopes to repay the favor this weekend. 
“I’m excited to open at home and excited to play a team that we lost a series to last year, and see if we can’t bounce back and win it,” Aoki said. 
Aoki said Notre Dame’s 

see AOKI/page 22 

ASHLEY DACY/The Observer 
Senior infielder Tommy Chase bunts a ball in a 12-4 win against Eastern Michigan on March 20 in Frank Eck Stadium. 





