
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Program educates local teens 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s senior Cat Cleary and junior Laura Cor­rigan teamed up this semester to work with high school stu­dents in South Bend through a program called “Use Your Voice.” They created the pro­gram, directed toward teens, to raise awareness about sex­ual harassment in schools, as well as to improve prevention methods and responsiveness to the issue. 
After receiving the 2011­2012 Campus Action Project grant from the American As­sociation of University Women (AAUW), Cleary and Corrigan said they used the funds to implement “Use Your Voice” at four high schools in the South Bend Community School Cor­poration through 60-minute afterschool workshops. 
“Our goals for this pro­gram and this semester are to start a conversation at each of these schools about sexual harassment because dialogue is a great step in the right di­rection,” Cleary said. “We also know this is a complex issue 

see VOICE/page 4 


The Shirt announces vendor 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
As students pack Notre Dame Stadium next fall, not only will they be cheering on the Irish in style, but they will also be doing so in a so­cially conscious fashion. 
For the first time ever, The Shirt Project is announcing the identity of their vendor: Alta Gracia Apparel. The company will further the tradition of The Shirt Proj­ect, promoting both Notre Dame’s tradition and socially conscious identity. 
Junior Andrew Alea, pres­ident of The Shirt Project, said Alta Gracia Apparel went beyond The Shirt’s usu­al tradition of supporting the Notre Dame community. 
“The Alta Gracia brand is a socially conscious brand. The shirts are manufactured in a town in the Dominican Re­public called Alta Gracia,” he said. “They pay their workers a living wage, which is basi­cally enough to feed, clothe and house their entire fam­ily.” 
Alea said proceeds from The Shirt would go back to students in various ways, ranging from covering medi­cal costs to funding addition­al clubs and organizations. Revenues would also help pay for students who could not otherwise afford to partici­pate in campus activities, ac­cording to the project’s web­site. 
“It’s an added message to The Shirt,” he said. “In ad­dition to contributing back to the University, now we are contributing back to the world in a sense.” 
Alea said he thinks Notre Dame students will appreci­ate the social significance this year’s Shirt will have. 
“By supporting The Shirt, you’re not only supporting Notre Dame student body clubs and activities, but sup­porting a living wage in the Dominican Republic, which is actually a cool message to have,” he said. 
Alea said The Shirt Project has felt the need to explore socially conscious vendor op­tions over the past few years. This year, the offers were 

see SHIRT/page 5 
Republicans debate for candidacy 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Four nominees remain in the race to become the next Republican can­didate in the 2012 presidential elec­tion. 
Political Science Professor David Campbell said the great irony in this election has been the Republican Party’s overhaul of structure in its delegate appropriation, which did not have the effect the GOP hoped to see. 
“The Republicans changed their rules hoping to get a more long drawn-out contest,” Campbell said. “But it hasn’t mattered. Romney has won, and it’s hard to see how any one will carry on beyond Florida since no one else has the money to compete there the way that Romney can.” 
He said the drawn-out contest weeded out Republican hopefuls who lacked the resources necessary to pursue a strong national cam­paign. 
Professor of Political Science Christina Wolbrecht said since the campaign started long before the Iowa caucus, candidates had to em­ploy large amounts of money in or­der to compete. 
“The campaign has been going on 
see PRIMARIES/page 5 

Movement opens campus dialogue on GLBT issues 
By MARISSA IATI 
News Writer 
Through the 4 to 5 Movement, the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA) is trying to bridge the gap between students that identify as gay, lesbian, bisexual or trans­gender (GLBT) and their straight allies, said senior Jackie Emman­uel, co-president of PSA. 
“Sometimes a lot of straight students really aren’t aware of the problems that GLBT students face, or if they are aware and want to be supportive, don’t nec­essarily know where to go or how to be supportive in the correct way,” Emmanuel said. 
Senior Joanna Whitfield, vice president of PSA, said the Move­ment aims to inform students about GLBT civil rights and mobi­lize them to action. 
“PSA [in general] tends to be about large gatherings, and 4 to 5 is more about awareness, educa­tion, more minor changes around campus,” she said. 
Although the 4 to 5 Movement officially began in August, Whit­field said it was sparked by a cam­pus visit on March 28 from Brian Sims, the first openly gay college football captain in the NCAA. 
Sims told attendees that four out of five college students or college-educated people between the ages of 18 and 30 in the United States support the general pack­age of gay civil rights, but believe only one out of three support that package. 
Emmanuel said this creates the illusion that supporters of GLBT rights are in the minority. 
“The remaining fifth person is often very loud, and because there’s almost this silent majority, they don’t necessarily think their peers will agree with them if they stand up to the fifth person,” she said. 
Emmanuel said PSA hosted a panel presentation about how al­lies can support members of the 
see PSA/page 5 

Photo courtesy of Alex Coccia 
The Progressive Student Alliance displayed signs outside of North Dining Hall first semester in support of the 4 to 5 Movement. The Movement aims to bridge the gap between GLBT students and their straight allies. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students use RecSports page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Sundance of South Bend page 8 u Men’s basketball prepares to play Syracuse page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Friday, January 20, 2012 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS ONE THING YOU WISH YOU WERE BETTER AT? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Saad Khan  Dan McCormack  Keith Kane  Keith Podgorski  Bethany Herila  Shannon  
McNaught  
sophomore  freshman  freshman  freshman  junior  senior  
Carroll  Fisher  Fisher  Duncan  McGlinn  Howard  
“Preaching a  “Chill-to-pull  “Stealing  “The Electric  “Walking.”  “Post-grad  
message of peace.”  ratio.”  things.”  Slide.”  apps.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Paralyzed snowmobile rider completes trip to South Pole 
SOUTH POLE – A Nevada man who was paralyzed in a 2010 snowmobiling accident has successfully reached the South Pole on a modified “sit-ski.” Grant Korgan, 33, traveled 75 miles through sub-zero temperatures to reach his destination. 
“Although my body has been broken, my spirit never will be. I am un­breakable,” Korgan said in a statement posted on the crew’s Web site. 
Over the past year, Kor­gan trained with a team on practice missions in Alas­ka, Norway, Lake Tahoe and South America, ac­cording to the Associated 
LOCAL WEATHER 
Press. The South Pole trip was arranged to help raise money for the High Fives Foundation, which helps injured winter athletes re­integrate back into their chosen sport. The group is also supporting the Reeve Irvine Research Center, which studies repair, re­generation and recovery from spinal cord injuries. 
Passengers accidentally warned of impending crash 
MIAMI, Florida – Passen­gers aboard a trans-Atlantic British Airways flight were startled when a recorded message was accidentally triggered at 3 a.m., telling them their flight was about to crash into the ocean. 
“We were about three hours into the flight when an automated message came over saying, ‘This is an emergency. We will shortly be making an emer­gency landing on water,’” flight passenger Duncan Farquharson told the Daily Mail. 
The automated message, which began while the plane was at 35,000 feet in the air during its voyage from Miami to London, was trig­gered when one of the pilots accidentally bumped it in the cockpit’s tight quarters. 
British Airways issued an apology to customers after the incident for any “undue stress.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
RecSports, Women’s Bas­ketball and the College of Science is hosting a 24 hour Pink Zone spin-a-thon to raise funds for Breast Can­cer. The event starts at noon today in the Rockne Memo­rial  Cycling Studio. You can sign up to participate via RecRegister. Funds raised will go towards funding mammograms, diagnostic services and ultrasounds. 
Today from 3 to 5 p.m.  at Innovation Park, Harry Kraemer will share high­lights from his new book, “From Values to Action.” Kraemer is the former CEO of Baxter International and is currently an executive partner at Madison Dear­born Partners in Chicago. The event is free and open to the public. 
The Congregation of Holy Cross joyously cele­brates the life of its founder, Blessed Basil Moreau, today at 5:15 p.m. with a mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. During the mass, Notre Dame Director of Stu­dent Financial Strategies Joe Russo will receive the 2011 Spirit of Holy Cross Award. 
The ND-SMC Irish Dance Team is hosting a fund­raiser show called “Dance Like a Champion Today” to­night from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Proceeds from the event benefit the ND-SMC Irish Dance Team. Tickets cost $5 for students. For more information, email irishdan@nd.edu 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@ gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Nicole Toczauer Jillian Barwick Bridget Feeney 
Graphics 
Marina Kozak 
Photo 
Kirby McKenna 
Sports 
Chris Allen Joseph Monardo Vicky Jacobson 
Scene 
Carrie Turek Kevin Noonan 
Viewpoint 
HIGH 21 LOW 18 
HIGH 23 LOW 14 
HIGH 37 LOW 34 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
Amber Galik 








CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, in the Jan. 18 article of The Observer, the article “Campus Housing Changes Structure” incorrectly stated which party terminated the relationship between Campus Apartments and Campus Housing at South Bend. Campus Apart­ments initiated the termination. The Observer regrets this error. 
Friday, January 20, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

RecSports supports students’ New Year’s resolutions 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
New Year’s resolutions can be notoriously difficult to maintain throughout the full 365 days of the year, especially when the goals involve person­al fitness and exercise. 
Although she lacked success in keeping up with past reso­lutions, junior Colleen Bailey said this year would be differ­ent. 
“I make similar resolutions to be better about exercising and to improve my fitness ev­ery year, but I’m really serious about it this year,” she said. “My most tangible goal right now is to run the Holy Half Marathon, so I’ll do whatever it takes to get myself to that point.” 
Jennie Phillips, RecSports Assistant Director of Fitness and Fitness Facilities, said students like Bailey with New Year’s fitness resolutions need look no further than RecSports 


Although the New Year in­spires students to improve per­sonal health at the beginning of each year, Phillips said fitness goals should be made year-round. 
“If you need to make a reso­lution for the motivation, that’s great, but hopefully you’ll be motivated for other reasons as well, such as overall health, improved sleep, better immune system functioning, stress man­agement and improved concen­tration,” she said. 
Students with questions about fitness can contact Phil­lips at Phillips.42@nd.edu, while general RecSports infor­mation is available at recsports. nd.edu 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
for assistance in meeting their health and exercise goals. 
She said RecSports offers students free consultations with RecSports staff for fitness equipment orientation, body composition and blood pres-during the 2010-2011 school year. Phillips said this per­centage remained relatively consistent, although RSRC fit­ness room usage tended to peak in the winter months. 
“February is typically our 
sure exams. She said stu­dents could also partici­pate in fit­ness classes, cross-country skiing and various spe­cial events sponsored by RecSports throughout the year. 
Accord­ing to the 
“February is typically our busiest month throughout the year.” 
Jennie Phillips RecSports assistant director 
busiest month throughout the year,” Phillips said. “I assume some of it is due to New Year’s reso­lutions and spring break preparation, but it’s also partly due to the winter weather.” 
She also 
RecSports annual facility us­age report, 94 percent of the undergraduate student body used the Rolfs Aquatic Center (RAC), the Rolfs Sports Rec­reation Center (RSRC) or the Rockne Memorial at least once recommended writing down goals and scheduling ahead for exercise sessions, in addi­tion to participating in enjoy­able activities. 
“Play basketball, ice skate, cross-country ski, take a fitness class — whatever works best for you. I would recommend cross-training, or doing differ­ent activities, over the course of a week or even a day,” she said. 
Junior Mike Butler said he and a group of friends were making a collective effort to be more active this year. 
“I just want to make an effort to get some physical exercise on a more consistent basis, even if it’s just going to play basketball with some friends,” he said. “We want to have some fun while staying active.” 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, January 20, 2012 
Saint Mary’s College hosts Peace Project Contest 


By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College hosted the Peace Project Contest as the final installment in a series of events held this week in honor of Martin Luther King, Jr. Stu­dents submitted poems, artwork and speeches dedicated to the messages left by the Civil Rights leader. 
Tamara Taylor, assistant di­rector of Student Involvement and Multicul­tural Services, said the proj­
“I write a lot of poetry, and I like poetry because I like to ex­press things through a new per­spective and grab people’s at­tention with vivid imagery, and [allow them] to see things in a new light,” she said. 
Vice President of Student Af­fairs Karen Johnson served on a panel of judges and helped choose the winner of the contest. 
“I was amazed by how ex­cellent everything was, and it should be shared with the com­
munity,”  she  
said.  
E l  a i n  e  

ect was a way “I think it is really Meyer -Lee, for students great that so many the director to use their students came out and of the Center creativity to created something with for Women’s celebrate the Intercultural 
so much substance.” 
life of Dr. King Leadership, and his dream also served as 
Elaine Meyer-Lee 
for peace. a judge. “Tradition-“I think it 
director for Women’s ally, ‘Celebrate Intercultural Leadership is really great 
Martin Luther King’ has only been one day and it has traditionally been the day we get back,” she said. “It has gotten lost in the shuffle, so we decided, ‘Why not do a week?’” 
Jacquitta Martin, president of the Sisters of Nefertiti, said the sisters helped plan and execute the event. 
“This contest started out as an oratorical contest. Then sisters asked why limit to just speech when we can open it up to allow students to be more creative,” she said. 
The 10 entries in the contest ranged from original poetry to a short film. 
Junior Elizabeth Elsbach won the top prize, a spa package from 
J. Ross Salon and Spa, for her poem. 
“I decided to write a poem because when you are express­ing something as intangible as peace, you have to use some­thing intangible like poetry to reach out and stir up the desire to reach a common goal,” she said. 
First year Asha Gilmore took second prize with her original film. The film originally began as a project for a social work class, she said. 
“It was a project where we compared and contrasted three different writers: Sister Madal­eva, Mary Jane Adams and Mar­tin Luther King, Jr.,” she said. “I decided I wanted to use song and intensity in the animations to make the project more memo­rable.” 
Junior Lizzy Schroff finished in third place for her poem. 
that so many students came out and creat­ed something with so much sub­stance,” she said. “It was a mean­ingful event that is worthy of the legacy of Martin Luther King, Jr.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
Voice 
continued from page 1 
that needs a coordinated community response, so our goal is for students, teachers, parents and oth­er high school staff to gain knowledge from this.” 
Cleary said last summer the AAUW polled 1,965 stu­dents from grades 7 to 12 about their thoughts and experiences with sexual harassment. According to the survey, 30 percent wit­nessed online sexual ha­rassment and 44 percent experienced sexual harass­ment in person. 
“We know this is a complex issue that needs a coordinated community response, so our goal is for students, teachers, parents and other high school staff to gain knowledge from this,” Cleary said. 
Cleary and Corrigan said they learned about the Cam­pus Action Project grant through the National Student Advisory Council. They re­ceived the grant from AAUW based on a research report they released in November about harassment in schools, specifically grades 7 through 12. 
Cleary was also appointed as a representative of wom­en at universities across the United States last year, while Corrigan is one of 10 women on the National Student Advi­sory Council this year. 
Cleary and Corrigan said they want “Use Your Voice” to raise awareness about sexual harassment and make schools a safer place. 
“We really want teens to know that they have a safe place to report sexual ha­rassment issues to,” Corrigan said. “Sexual harassment in schools is a preventable issue that students should not have to simply live with.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu. 


Friday, January 20, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
ries in the Iowa and New Hampshire said. the student body was very 
Primaries 
primaries. 
Shirt 
Though the vendor and the interested in finding out who “Romney himself is everyone’s 
unveiling may be different the vendor was,” he said. “We continued from page 1 second choice. Romney is like the 
continued from page 1 this year, Alea said the tradi-think it was a good time to girl that you marry not because he’s 
tional purpose of The Shirt to talk to the student body.” for a very long time before the Iowa the glamorous one. He’s moderate, 
competitive enough to move in inspire Notre Dame fans re-Baranay said that although caucus, and that’s 10 months be-and therefore he’s seen as a poten­
such a direction, he said. mains the same. the same vendor has not pro-fore the general election,” she said. tial winner in the general election,” 
“Over the past three years, “The design will be based duced The Shirt every year, “That’s very expensive.” Campbell said. 
the vendors who have come to on tradition, it will not be a Knight’s Apparel, the parent Political Science Professor Darren He added it remained to be seen 
present on campus have each socially conscious design,” company of Alta Gracia Ap-Davis said it was surprising can-whether other candidates would be 
been more pushing the social-he said. “[There is] the same parel, has worked with Notre didates dropped out early because able to garner more support without 
ly conscious brands or ideas,” design process, the same ink Dame in the past. He said this there remained opportunities for alienating loyal voters. 
Alea said. “It’s out there, and process. The Shirt still fits the was crucial in the partner-other contestants to gain on Rom-Political Science Professor Ricar­
we felt the time was right to do same. Everything is the same.” ship, citing a level of familiar­ney. Herman Cain, Jon Huntsman, do Ramírez said candidates sought 
something about it.” Senior Paul Baranay, vice ity behind the choice of a so-Michelle Bachmann and Rick Perry such support through unique plat-
As this year’s vendor in-president of The Shirt Project, cially conscious vendor. have dropped out of the presidential forms on previously unmentioned 
spires a message of social said the selection of a vendor “In some sense, we are get-race so far. issues. Michelle Bachmann’s ap­
responsibility, Alea said the with strong social concerns ting the best of both worlds,” “It’s not going to be a cakewalk for proach to immigration exemplified 
unveiling of The Shirt is being ties compelled the committee he said. Romney by any stretch of the imagi-this strategy. 
planned accordingly. to make the choice public, a The Shirt will be unveiled nation.  Romney may eventually re-“It’s been interesting because un­
“We really want to incorpo-change from previous years. April 20. ceive the nomination, but we have til the 2010 Gallup polls, immigra­
rate the story and the added “There has been a lot of dis-only had two contests so far and it tion has not been an issue of para­
message to the marketing and cussion about the vendor, and Contact Sam Stryker at is still really early … I think that the mount importance in U.S. elections,” 
unveiling of The Shirt,” he the Committee got the sense sstryker@nd.edu other candidates will have some ap-Ramírez said. “Bachmann made peal,” Davis said. immigration a priority first, and 
The campaign season has been then the rest followed.” marked by great volatility, Campbell Davis said candidate Rick Santo-
probably going to have another said. added. rum’s attitude toward key social is-
PSA 
education session sometime this PSA members also checked “This period will be memorable sues was also noteworthy, as it pres-
semester.” with teachers and campus ad-for the huge amount of flux in the sured other candidates to establish 
continued from page 1 Emmanuel said these events ministrators to ensure the lan­polls so early on, characterized by their position on the matter. 
are meant to ease the sensitiv-guage used in their programs both spikes in the polls and sudden “Increasingly you hear [candidate 
GLBT community in December. ity of GLBT issues, especially in was appropriate, accepting and and almost precipitous declines,” he Newt] Gingrich talking about social 
PSA also sponsored Notre Dame a conservative campus atmo-not confrontational, Whitfield said. issues and other things of that na-
Coming Out Day in October, cre-sphere that poses challenges for said. Davis said the issue positions of ture, but it was Santorum that first 
ated informational signs and PSA. Emmanuel believes the way the candidates are all very similar, articulated his positions, even on the 
posters, co-sponsored events “Occasionally, there are a cou-students perceive GLBT issues forcing voters to look to the person-potentially divisive social issues,” 
with the Core Council for Gay, ple of people that are outspoken has changed since she came to ality, values and backgrounds of Davis said. 
Lesbian, Bisexual and Question-against us, but overwhelmingly, Notre Dame three-and-a-half candidates. Campbell said while the stormiest 
ing Students and distributed pro-the campus is supportive,” she years ago. “What they are all really interest-part of the primaries was over, vot­
motional T-shirts and pins. said. “Since PSA has been working ed in showing right now is the type of ers must wait to see which candidate 
PSA plans to host another Whitfield added that some on changes, we’ve definitely seen character who could defeat Obama,” advance to the general election. 
speaker or panel discussion this people did not support their view, a difference in general in atti-Davis said. “With more information out there 
semester, Emmanuel said. but ultimately their combative tudes on campus,” she said. “We Campbell said Republican nomi-about all of the candidates and more 
“We’ll probably do at least actions helped PSA in the end. had a couple of goals last year nees have employed various strate-voters paying attention to the race, 
one person-to-person event like “When we put up the ‘Did that were eventually realized, gies to separate themselves from the spikes are a lot less likely now,” he 
cookouts [or a] picnic on the you know?’ posters [to promote like Core Council getting a space pack. Campbell said Romney’s suc-said. “The stakes are higher.” 
quad to invite people to open up GLBT civil rights], there were on campus in [the LaFortune cessful attainment of endorsements 
discussion with each other,” she a few locations where people Student Center].” and early support from prominent Contact Nicole Michels at 
said. “Often, having a place to tore them up, but the counter-political officials was key to his victo-nmichels@nd.edu 
have dialogue is a big step. We’re response was so supportive,” she Contact Marissa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, January 20, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Not being in Cairo 
One year ago today, I stepped off a plane into 70 degree weather, took a bus ride during which I was stared at by creepy men (and by no means because I was looking good after almost 18 hours of traveling) and found myself immersed in a completely foreign city. 
That’s abroad for you. And that was Cairo. But that was not, ultimately, my abroad experi­ence. 
If you read my blogs on The Observer’s website last year, you know I was among the Notre Dame students evacuated from Egypt because of the Arab Spring. And you know we saw violence, felt the effects of tear gas and stood in line for about 10 hours at the airport before being evacuated. 
But I’m not going to harp on that. That was January 2011 and this is January 2012. Let’s focus on the pres­ent. 
When most people hear about my experience, the first question they often ask is, “How was it being in Cai­ro?” But after having a year to reflect, what I really wish they would ask is, “How was it not being in Cairo?” 
For me, the most difficult part of the entire experience was not actually being in Cairo during the revolution. Sure, there were scary moments. But for the most part, it was exciting to be able to witness a revolution. Plus, it’s a great conversation topic during interviews. 
The more difficult part was the adjustment. 
I’m a planner. If you look at my as­signment notebook, you’ll find every activity of my day planned out, and then neatly crossed out when it is completed. But you can’t plan for a revolution. 
And so, when I was evacuated and continued my semester in London — a place where I ironically had never wanted to study abroad because I deemed it too “easy” — that was when the real challenges began. 
Little things, like buying winter clothes or finding a new class sched­ule that would fulfill major require­ments. 
But also big things, like the loneli­ness of living over an hour from the Notre Dame flats in London, or the disappointment of seeing a dream fade away. 
I wanted an abroad experience that would challenge me, and I got it — just not in the ways I expected. But for every bad day, there was a new oppor­tunity I wouldn’t have gotten if I had stayed in Cairo. Like meeting a lot of great people in the London program, or traveling to the Auschwitz concen­tration camp — which certainly was life-changing. 
It sounds cliché, but a year later, I still believe the Rolling Stones were right. You can’t always get what you want, but sometimes, you get what you need. 
I just couldn’t see what I needed at the time. But I’m thankful that life or some higher power could. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at      smervosh@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The title of Francis Fukuyama’s “The End of History?” is misleading: his 1989 manifesto is far more argu­ment than question, and far more assertion than argument. But the title is misleading for another reason also: the millennium that Fukuyama hails is one beyond history, not one beyond events. Life and love, war and peace, 
death and tax­ 
es would go on  Dan Sportiello  
as normal. Our  
 
world would  Bound Variables  
still be one of  
economic and  

military conflict. But ideological con­flict — the kind that dominated the history of modernity — would have come to an end. 
Fukuyama, echoing Hegel, argued that history is driven forward by the resolution of contradictions — by, that is, the tensions internal to vari­ous ideologies. Liberalism — that is, democratic capitalism — is the end of history because it has solved those contradictions. For instance, one obvious contradiction, or tension, that has plagued societies throughout history is that between rulers and ruled. While it is necessary in any sizable society to have some kind of centralized planning for various pur­poses, such as defense, this leads to a powerful ruling class and a powerless underclass — one full of resentment for the rulers. This contradiction is solved with the introduction of rep­resentative government. As it was in our society, the rulers and the ruled become, ultimately, one and the same. A society resolves the tension between rulers and ruled; in other words, its people rule themselves by electing representatives who reflect their ends. 
Now that we have achieved repre-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“First say to yourself what you would be; and then do what you have to do.” 
Epictetus Roman slave & Stoic philosopher 

History 
sentative democracy, Fukuyama asked, are there any contradictions, any ten­sions, left? If not, we have reached the “end” of history — its goal, politically speaking, where all can live in perfect freedom, equality and happiness. Of course, some have suggested that there are, in fact, serious tensions remaining within democratic capitalism — ten­sions that rival societies, founded upon rival principles, could solve. 
The twentieth century yielded at least two such challengers: fascism and communism. Fascism held that democratic capitalism had a great ten­sion because of, on the one hand, the need of people to have deeper meaning and a sense of communal belonging in their lives and, on the other hand, the refusal of democratic capitalism to settle, or even to debate, questions of deeper meaning. Communism held that democratic capitalism held a great tension because of the antagonism be­tween workers, who provide all of the labor but get little of the reward, and the capitalists, who reap most of the reward but without whom the work­ers would not know how to direct their labor. 
One might — perhaps should — find the existence of these tensions plau­sible. Whether one does or not, how­ever, the solutions that fascists and communists suggested were as horrific as they were predictable. Fascism tried to collapse the distinction between the nation as state and the nation as community, thus creating the “Volk,” or “people,” while communism tried to collapse the distinction between workers and capitalists by having the workers own in common the factories and farms in which they worked, thus abolishing private property. 
As we witnessed, neither of these systems proved workable: the Volk turned out to be an extraordinarily aggressive horror that could only have ended in the nuclear ash in which it did, whereas the abolition of private property led to an extraordinarily stag­nant economy that could not compete with that of capitalism. Whether or not the genocide and repression that accompanied fascism and communism were essential to these developments is a question for another time. 

In any case, democratic capitalism beat the only challengers around; there is nowhere else for history to go. Or so said Fukuyama in 1989. 
Before you laugh too hard, though, let me tell you that after a century of utter madness, we were desperate to believe that it had all meant some­thing. One of my earliest memories, when I was six years old, was seeing on television a statue of Lenin torn down. I remember because of how important it was to the adults; after fifty years on the brink of Armageddon, sanity had returned. All of our sacrifices had been worth it. The world was one. We had won. We could breathe again. 
This was a juvenile fantasy, as is clear from hindsight. But it strikes me that, when we lost the hope that characterized the following decade — a hope difficult, now, even to explain — we lost something precious, something perhaps irreplaceable. 
These are the musings of one whom history left behind. Make of them what you will. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his fourth year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Friday, January 20, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 

Eight political stories to follow in 2012 
For good and bad, American politics may be “the greatest show” on Earth, and 2012 will most likely be a year to help prove why. Below are eight political stories to follow in 2012. 
8. Can the Democrats Adam Newman finally raise taxes on the Scientia rich? Potentia Est 
At the end of 2012, the Bush Tax Cuts will expire, effectively raising taxes on all Americans. Demo­crats and Republicans agree that the tax provisions for the bottom 98% of income earners should be extended, but dis­agree over the tax breaks for the top 2% of income earners. If Congress and the President cannot agree to an extension, then everyone’s taxes will go up Jan. 1, 2013. 
7. Will Mitt Romney ever be loved? 
It looks like Mitt Romney will be the Republican’s nominee for president, but can Republicans embrace him? Most of the Republican establishment supports Romney, but the real question is wheth­er “the rank and file” will support him. 
6. Who will be the Republican nomi­nee for VP? 
Perhaps an even more interest­ing question is who will be Romney’s running mate. This may be Romney’s only chance to win the rank and file’s support before the election, so he will probably pick someone popular within the party, like Governor Chris Christie of New Jersey or Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. But given both lack experience (and in Christie’s case, saying he is not ready to be president), it is more likely Romney will pick Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the party’s biggest star and best debater. 
5. Will John Boehner become unem­ployed? 
Republican Speaker of the House John Boehner may say that he has control of the House Republicans, but few believe him. Boehner is an old school Republi­can politician who is sensible, a stark contrast to the Tea Party freshman, a group that makes up roughly one-third of his caucus. It has been reported that Boehner’s party has taken different positions than him on the debt ceiling and spending, amongst other issues. Boehner’s deputy, Eric Cantor, is both ambitious and better connected to the Tea Party. Don’t be surprised if Boehner is ousted in an insurrection and re­placed with Cantor as the new session of Congress approaches in 2013. 
4. Can the Republicans take the Sen­ate? 
The Democrats currently hold the Senate with 54 members, but that could evaporate in the 2012 election. The Democrats face two ugly trends in their pursuit to maintain the Senate: a) The bad economy will make the re-election 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Mathieson must go #1 
“Gone are the days of the traditional truth. In fact, popular adult dating American families, if they were ever websites, such as eHarmony, Match. here to begin with. The visages of com, Ashley Madison, Zoosk and even Rockwell’s wholesome Americanism Craigslist have made the process that we find on postcards and calen-of marriage and family-building as dars are nothing but illusive shadows.” concretely sound as the walls of Fort 
I’m glad that Mr. Mathieson, in his Knox, boasting user success rates as piece for the Observer’s “Scene” seg-high as 40 percent. ment, finds Alexander Payne’s “The De-If it’s true that the family in Amer­scendants” a redeeming and forgiving ica is a lost cause, then how can it film about familial love. Unfortunately, be that thousands of Americans are I wish his rich description of contem-finding love and creating meaningful porary American family life, quoted relationships? above, held similar optimism. Instead, In sum, I wish to call upon our Mr. Mathieson condemns the coveted community to set Mr. Mathieson’s pillar of our society, the family, to an damnation of the family aside, and irredeemable state of destitution and to never give up on the wonderful unattainable happiness. relationships of compassion and trust 
I must adamantly disagree with Mr. we can share with the ones we love. Mathieson’s assessment of family life. Shame on you, Neil. You may think The family should be viewed as a God-America’s families are dead, but they given opportunity to forge the strongest are alive and well in our hearts. Your of bonds with fellow human beings, not resignation would be more than ap­some hopeless abyss of parental short-propriate. comings or shattered souls. 
In addition, Mr. Mathieson projects Peter Vogel Payne’s analysis of marriage as an in-senior exact and illogical science, as if it were St. Edward’s Hall reality. However, this is far from the Jan. 19 efforts of Democratic Senators more dif­ficult, and b) The anti-incumbent mood that has swept the country will make the re-election of incumbent Senators much more difficult. Given that Demo­crats are defending 23 Senate seats out of 33 seats up for grabs in the 2012 elec­tion, it will be very difficult for Demo­crats to maintain control of the Senate. 
3. How will the Supreme Court rule on health care reform? 
The controversial individual mandate, which starting in 2014 mandates Ameri­cans to either acquire insurance or pay a fine, is a key part of the 2010 health care overhaul and whose constitution­ality will be decided by the Supreme Court. The mandate is a key part of the law because the law also prevents insur­ance companies from denying insurance to people with a pre-existing condition. Without a mandate for people to acquire insurance, older and sicker people will sign up for the new insurance exchang­es, while younger and healthier people will wait to buy insurance until they become sick, making implementation of the coverage provisions impossible.
 2. What will be the unemployment rate in November 2012? 
No number may be more relevant to the re-election prospects of President Obama than the percentage of Ameri­cans unemployed. As of January 2011, it was at 8.5 percent. With economic growth projected to be less than three percent for the next three quarters, it is unlikely that unemployment will drop much. Even if unemployment drops to eight percent, it will be very difficult for Obama to win, as incumbents George 
H.W. Bush (7.4 percent), Jimmy Carter 
(7.5 percent), and Gerald Ford (7.8 per­cent) all lost their elections. 
1.  Can President Obama win re-elec­tion? 
And of course, the most important political question of 2012: Can Presi­dent Obama, someone once seen as a “transformational president”, win re­election? The election will certainly be a referendum on Obama’s handling of the economy. Given the state of the economy, Obama will have a very hard time mak­ing a case for another four-year term. Fortunately for Obama, Republicans may not be smart enough to realize this and could make the election a referen­dum on the size and role of government 
— areas that are much easier for Obama to campaign on. Either way, the man who pledged to fix Washington in 2008 will run against it in 2012, similar to how Harry Truman ran against a “Do Nothing Congress” in 1948. 
Adam Newman is a junior finance ma­jor. He can be reached at anewman3@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Right to life issues 
This is in reply to Mr. Slavin’s letter conservatives assailed the University regarding his concerns that Notre for inviting President Obama to speak Dame, and Catholics overall, place too at the 2009 commencement, while the much emphasis on abortion versus liberals praised the University for it. other social ills. Until there is a party whose platform 
First, the letter cheapens the efforts conforms to every Catholic social teach-that Notre Dame has made to encour-ing, there will always be contradictions age students to take action regarding when a Catholic in good conscience such issues. The University’s Center supports a particular politician be-for Social Concerns has sent multi-cause he or she believes that politician tudes of students all over the United will help to solve a particular social States and overseas to learn about problem. Judging said Catholic poorly the hardships of poverty, immigration because his preferred politician does and the like. Hundreds of students not completely align with the Church have boxed in the Bengal and Baraka is unfair and, at least in this polarized Bouts to benefit missions in Africa and climate, an exercise in futility. South Asia. Perhaps most obviously, However, Mr. Slavin is correct in that advertisements during the football we should pray for all life and work games viewed by millions tout the towards a world that respects it. To University’s commitment to combat-those of you who are students at Notre ing such problems. Combined with the Dame: take advantage of the many op-work that the Church does worldwide portunities that the University provides on a massive scale, these items, and to do so. To everyone: if you do believe more, are proof that the University in the political process, write your and the Catholic Church are “raising government officials regarding issues their collective and institutional voice” that affect human life. You might even to right the wrongs in our world. convince some of them. 
Second, the letter reflects a problem to which Catholics on both sides of the Michael Wodarcyk political aisle fall victim: interpreting Class of ’09 teachings through the political lens. Evanston, Ill. One immediate example is when the Jan. 19 

Mathieson must go #2 
Over the past two days, I have been deeply disturbed by some of the articles that Degrassi references and leave Americanism to Americans. I have read in the Scene section of the Observer. The articles that I am referring All I ask is that Neil Mathieson be fired immediately. I don’t think that is too much to are the movie reviews of “The Descendants” and “Mission Impossible: Ghost to ask. I mean, what business does a 21-year-old childless Canadian man have talk-Protocol,” both written by one of your Scene writers named Neil Mathieson. These ing about the “transgressions of ineptitude and hypocrisy that every parent will pedantic, pseudo-intellectual rants by Mr. Mathieson have made me sick to my undoubtedly take?” No business, that’s how much. stomach and ruined my day. RUINED MY DAY. I’m sorry to bring this up, but I know Neil, if you are by chance reading this, I apologize. I apologize for lying to you the it’s something that is on everybody’s mind, and somebody had to say it. other day when I said I liked your article. I did not like it. I shouldn’t have lied to 
I do not enjoy reading articles containing separate references to Norman Rock-someone I’ve lived with for four years. Anyway, I hope this doesn’t affect our friend-well and Tolstoy in the first paragraph, as Mathieson’s review of “The Descendants” ship, and I will see you when I get home today. did. I do not want to read articles written by somebody who throws in SAT prep words like ‘ephemeral’ and ‘proliferation’ and includes phrases such as ‘poignant Ryan Kim tenderness’ to make themselves look smart. I do not want to listen to Mathieson, senior who was born and raised in Canada, lecture on the lack of “the traditional Ameri-off-campus can family” or “wholesome Americanism.” He should stick to Avril Lavigne and Jan. 19 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, January 20, 2012 

By MEGHAN THOMASSEN Last year’s festival extend-“CASSETTE” me want to Viewpoint Editor ed far beyond Notre Dame’s “Cassette,” directed by in-get into it,” campus; Erin Zacek and Dan termediate film students Kurt Zhuang said. 
Thank your lucky stars syl-Moore’s documentary, “The Zhuang and Rob Schaus, ex-Z h u a n g labus week coincides with the Elect,” was selected by the amines the silent journey of found his spot Notre Dame Student Film Fes-2011 Los Angeles Film Festival, one man in a post-apocalyptic behind the tival, because this is a year as well as the international An-world. camera when you don’t want to miss. From gelus Student Film Festival in Zhaung and Schaus took a his friends campus romance to post-apoc-Hollywood. simple approach on their project started mak­alyptic drama to psychological “Picking Up America,” by to deliver a worthwhile payoff ing skating thriller, the students of the in-Marie Wicht and Michael for their audience. films with a troductory, intermediate and Burke, appeared in 10 national “We went through multiples camcorder. advanced film courses have film festivals in 2011, won the stages and drafts,” Zhaung said. “I stopped skating altogether vals outside Notre Dame, but he outdone themselves — again. Social Change Award at the Ivy “First it had zombies, then mon-because all I wanted to do was does see a few opportunities on 
With the mileage some of Film Festival and was featured sters, but it’s a skeletal frame-film,” Zhuang said. the horizon. these aspiring directors and on both ABC and NBC national work. It makes the character Zhuang and Schaus worked “Over break I shot a music vid­producers have experienced news broadcasts. more believable, since one of about two weeks on their pro-eo for BMajor, who mixed beats as a result of their classwork, This is no glorified class proj-our constrictions was to have no duction. for artists like Drake, T Pain, the festival has become the ect; the Notre Dame Student dialogue.” “I’ve been rifling through it Chris Brown. He said he could launching point for both influ-Film Festival is the Sundance Zombies and monsters are so long, I hate it, but I feel that get me a job mixing for Pepsi or ential and unique filmmakers. of South Bend.  familiar subject material for way about a lot of my projects,” Coca Cola,” Zhuang said. 
Zhuang. Zhuang said. “[My classmates] However, Zhuang may go the “LOOK AWAY” the final product something The first R-rated film his fa-say they like it, but I haven’t old-fashioned route—Los Ange­
“Look Away,” filmed by junior they couldn’t have envisioned at ther took him to? Dawn of the heard any truly anonymous les. Luis Ibarra and senior Brendan the beginning of their assign-Dead. comments. I want to go to the “I might just want to move out Fitzpatrick, has all the ingredi-ment. “It scared me so badly, I slept festival and have someone who to LA and make my own way. ents of a good love story: obses-“We fiddled with the story a at the foot of my mom’s bed for doesn’t know me or know it’s my Ideally I’d be both director and sion, insanity and a final plot lot, and added some deep bass a week. Something making you film tell me what they think.” producer, because if you handle twist. too,” Ibarra said. feel like that, something about Zhuang doesn’t plan on sub-the money, you also handle the 
“You’ll know it when you see He describes the festival as a adventure and the movies made mitting “Cassette” to any festi-vision,” Zhuang said. it; it’s the one with the ominous professional presentation. music,” Ibarra said. “It’s more Vimeo than You-“SOLES” shooting where we didn’t real-After switching from engi-
Collin Erker, an intermediate ize the gauge on our camera was neering to psychology, Erker has film student, found inspiration broken, and we had to film three finally settled on premed and for his film, “Soles,” in the War-hours again,” Erker said. film as his majors of choice. In­ner Bros. 2011 film, “Crazy, Stu-Despite the time needed to strumental to this was his par­pid Love.” scout locations, audition actors ticipation in the summer extern-
In their film, he and his part-and edit the material, Erker and ship program provided by the ner, Nicole Timmerman, tell a Timmerman were able to shoot FTT program in Los Angeles last love story using only parts of the an emergency scene in South summer. body. Their as-“The pro­signment, after 
gram is get-all, was to pro-
ting stronger; duce a silent 
we have more film. 
diverse class­“The first shot 
es, better pro-is just under­
fessors,” Erker neath a table 
said. with two pairs 
One new of feet, and you 
class, “The still get to know 
Producer,” is When asked about the plot of tube. For the people in the FTT the personal-
taught by an the film, Ibarra said cryptically, program, they’ll see their skills ity of the char-
independent “It’s … complicated.” will mature in this class. You acters,” Erker 
film producer. In the film, a man becomes can see progress happening. It’s said. 
This applica­obsessed with a girl dressed in not just a collection of clips, but In their pro­
tion of educa­red. As she appears over and a movie,” Ibarra said. duction, Erker tion has pre­over again, his preoccupation Ibarra is unsure about his and Timmer-viously been escalates into a psychological career in film post-graduation, man decided to reveal the char-Bend Hospital, as well as a scene lacking from the program, but breakdown. but is happy with his final prod-acters slowly, from the feet, to at LaSalle Grill. Erker sees Notre Dame closing 
“But there’s a little twist at uct. the hands, to the face, to create a “It’s terrifying, but the film in on well-known programs at the end,” Ibarra said. “It’s defi-“This film could be a thought sense of mystery. program makes you feel like you schools like NYU, USC and UCLA. nitely unexpected.” experiment, or you can just get It’s no secret, however, how de-can do the things you want to do, “I’m probably going to forgo 
For Ibarra and Fitzpatrick, lost in the sound and see what manding making a film can be. especially with the externship medical school and move out to adding the final touches, in-happens. It’s what you want it to “There was one 10-hour day of program,” Erker said. LA,” Erker said. cluding the soundtrack, made be,” he said. 
side the Notre Dame bubble, could enjoy and relate to it. Ted Mandell, professor of the laugh, you need to get the audi­“KING OF THE PARK” literally and figuratively. “It was fun to work with introductory and documentary ence attached to your story in 
Intermediate film student “We wanted to appeal to the everyone, to be on set with courses, said the festival is a some way,” Mandell said. Megan Kozak’s film, “King of college student in general,” 25 extras running back and launching pad for aspiring film This year’s festival also the Park,” directed with part-Kozak said. “We shot at How-forth,” Kozak said. students. stands out by its level of profes­ner Marty Flavin, follows the ard Park in South Bend every She also participated in the “We choose the most accom-sionalism and creativity. comedic tale of a juggler’s fall weekend for a month.” summer externship program plished pieces from this past “The audience will be from the spotlight. Kozak and Flavin, whose in Los Angeles last summer, full year of classwork,” Mandell shocked at the level of filmmak­
“We wanted to show how film is also silent, used physi-and aims to move to there af-said. “It’s subjective, though, so ing,” Mandell says. “These films he responds when he is tested cal comedy to communicate ter graduation to find a posi-we’re putting additional films are entertaining, accomplished, with a change in his life, how the emotional journey of the tion in either production or on iTunes U.” thought-provoking. They’ll be he got over it,” Kozak said. downtrodden juggler. direction. Mandell believes each year, shocked, stunned.” 
The weeks spent developing The pair the students try to “one-up” the The 23rd Annual Notre Dame the concept for “King of the wanted to 
festival films they saw the pre-Student Film Festival will take Park” included hammering make sure 
vious year. place each night from Jan. 19th out the plot. each part 
“I’m proud of their work. They through the 21st at 6:30 p.m. “We had some slow weeks of the film 
take their subjects seriously and and 9:30 p.m. in the DeBar­where we were just turning worked to-
make powerful films. This is not tolo Performing Arts Center’s in story boards or scripts, gether so 
just for the Notre Dame campus, Browning Cinema. but when you actually have to the entire 
but global,” Mandell said. Tickets for students are $3, shoot, you’re talking about lo-audience, 
Mandell added he usually $5 for faculty and $6 for general cations, costumes and actors, i nc l u d ­
challenges his students to get admission. which took us about 15 to 20 ing faculty 
the audience emotionally in-hours a week,” Kozak said. and South 
volved in the film. Contact Meghan Thomassen at They were challenged by Bend resi­
“Whether it be on an intellec-mthomass@nd.edu their professors to think out-de nt s , 
tual level or just getting them to 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 



Photo courtesy of the Department of Film, Television and Theatre 


Friday, January 20, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Scene Editor 
David Fincher is a filmmaker of many hats: a masterful storyteller, a visionary director, a weaver of thrill­ing suspense and an utter perfec­tionist behind the camera and in the editing bay. 
He wields all of these titles adeptly in every film he makes, but his most profound ability—and the one that separates him most from his peers— is his ability to construct and capture an atmosphere or an ambience or whatever you want to call that pre­vailing mood that enwraps Fincher movies. 
“Seven” and “Zodiac” stand out for a tone that permeates every element of the film, while “Fight Club” reveals the gritty world of chaos so graciously given by Chuck Palahniuk’s book. 
Even in “The Social Network,” where the only atmospheric elements dictated by the plot are Harvard soci­ety and Mark Zuckerberg’s computer-prowess, Fincher’s total tone made the film not just a story, but a world unto itself. 
In the case of “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo,” the source material is all about tone. Stieg Larsson’s Swed­ish blockbuster story isn’t popular around the world just because people can’t seem to get enough of Lisbeth Salander. 
Rather, the very world that his novels capture and the way that they capture it sucks the reader in and provides a lens to understand the less-than-noble characters that popu­late the story. 
Fincher’s challenge with “Dragon Tattoo” was not just adapting the novel to the big screen, but capturing that very tone that makes the novel so suspenseful, so engrossing and so good. 
Against powerful odds, Fincher did it again. 
His “Girl with the Dragon Tattoo” is more than just a by-the-book adapta­tion. It is, in many ways, a poem en­tirely reflective of its source material, capturing the nuances of Larsson’s language in a way most films simply cannot. 
What makes the movie exceptional is the way that this close attention to the fine details of ambience balances almost perfectly with an excellent script and marvelous performances from the actors. 
Specifically, Rooney Mara as the hard-shelled, damaged and waifish Lisbeth Salander drives the movie ev­ery bit as effectively as the unconven­tional character does in the novels. 
While the novel and the film center more narratively on Mikael Blomkvist (Daniel Craig) and his quest to solve a decades-old murder, Salander is the heart of the story. Mara owns the role, presenting a Salander deeply rooted in the novels’ character but also in her own. 
There isn’t a bad actor in the house, but don’t be surprised when Mara steals the film even from James Bond himself. 
“Dragon Tattoo” is a dark but com­pelling, deeply distressing story. It is rife with murder, violence, misogyny and some generally detestable char­acters —even the “heroes” sometimes fly far outside the boundaries of moral excellence. 
Fincher’s film is every bit as dark as the novels, as the direc­tor handles and presents this sinister material in the same way Lars-son does. By exposing and exaggerat­ing very real flaws within civilized so­ciety with a critical tone, he points out just how messed up humanity can be. 
There are scenes of sheer brutality that are difficult to watch, but they pull the viewer in with a sense of urgency to expose a problem. 
It is common knowledge now that the film and the novel feature par­ticularly vicious scenes of violence against Lisbeth, but Fincher presents them with a coldness that ignores all sensationalism, instead exploring the depths of human ugliness. 
“Dragon Tattoo” is not for the faint of heart, but it is a must see for any­one ready to brave rough images for a shockingly effective translation of this worldwide blockbuster sensation. Mara seems to be the talk of the town when it comes to this film, and right­fully so. “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo” is worth seeing for her perfor­mance alone. 
For fans of the novel or Fincher’s American version, also check out slice of raw fish sitting on a small bed of rice. 



This was the best dish we ordered and a pleasant surprise. 
Those of us with Americanized palettes went for the teriyaki steak and chicken dishes, which were definitely passable, but nothing to write home (or in The Observer) about. 
Regarding the price, Toyo Grill does not rank high on my list of rec­ommended restaurants in the area. Sushi dishes ranged from $6-12 per roll, and grill items were upwards of $15. 
Still, if you are looking for a nice place to feel like you’re at a tradi­tional sushi bar, Toyo might be a good option. 




By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Staff Writer 
I should preface this review by saying I am not a sushi connoisseur. The few times I’ve eaten it before visiting Toyo I did enjoy it (and yes, that even includes the sushi from Reckers). 
Basically, I’m not the authority on sushi like I am on cupcakes. That being said, the cuisine at Toyo Grill was not one of my favorites. 
I went there with a fairly big group and we were eager to try their traditional wooden platter of raw fish, and the ambiance certain­ly reflected that. 
They had a “master chef” behind a display case of fish in the back of the restaurant slicing, dicing, and rolling up his concoctions. Behind him was a lovely display of wooden figures, mounted swords and bottles of wine. 
The service, however, was fairly slow, as one waitress served the entire restaurant, coming by maybe once every hour to refill our glasses of water, take our orders, de­liver our food and bring the check. Granted, when she was around, she was very nice and helpful, but for an entire restaurant they may want to hire a few extra hands. 
Now on to the food. Our group got a mix of sushi and Japanese grill items, none of which lived up to our expectations. 
When starting out with appetiz­ers, do not get fooled by the “Tofu with Secret Sauce.” We were so intrigued to find out what the secret sauce was that we were a bit blind­ed by the fact that they were very large cubes of unseasoned, soft tofu that is unpleasantly topped with a fairly standard red chili sauce. 
While I did not personally try the edemame, I was assured that it was up to par. 
Moving on to the main course, we ordered from a wide selection of standard and specialty rolls, along­side a few pieces of nigiri.
 I’ll start by saying the specialty rolls were not very special. They were too large, mashed together with too many textures and fla­vors to be enjoyable, especially the Philadelphia roll, which happened to have salmon skin. 
Not to be confused with salmon itself, the salmon skin tasted like burnt shards of toast that my more sushi-familiar friends assure is an acquired taste. 
The standard rolls weren’t bad by any means, but they were very plain 
— simply rice wrapped around pieces of fairly bland fish. 
The nigiri was an experience. For those of you who don’t know (I didn’t before I ordered), nigiri is a 
page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Friday, January 20, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Image is everything - but should it be? 
When did athletes become politicians? 
With the 2012 presidential election fast approaching, it becomes more and more clear what is most important in being elected to public office 
— image. 
But when did im­age be­come most important to athletes too? 
Rafael Nadal re­cently criti­cized fellow tennis great Roger Federer because Federer refused to speak out against the current state of professional tennis, as Nadal and others did. 
At first glance for most, Nadal is in the wrong. Why should Federer speak out? He has no desire to stir up controversy. Federer is a great tennis player, and instead of bringing atten­tion upon himself, he chose to stay quiet. 
But what about the other side? Why shouldn’t Federer speak out? He certainly is, to some degree, 

Eric Prister 
Senior Sports Writer 
bothered by “If a quarterback is is that so the same is-frustrated by the play wrong? sues that Nadal of his team’s defense, Athletes 
and others are protect their 
why not say so? If 
bothered. So image for 
a coach thinks his 
why does he many rea­
star rookie choked in 
remain silent? sons, but we 
the fourth quarter, 
Federer are the ones 
must he hide this?” 
cares more that force going to be trampled along the way. I am the greatest golfer of all time, and it’s long past time that I retake my rightful place.” 
The response, which could be seen in his post-tourna­ment fist pump, had to be toned down in the interview. But why? 
Athletes are instructed, even coached, to give unemo­tional, uninspired responses because they need to protect their image. But why is this necessary? These athletes are not being elected; they don’t need votes. And it isn’t about success or stardom; LeBron James is just as popular (even in a bad way) as Aaron Rodg­ers or Peyton Manning. He is hated, yes, but that doesn’t keep people from buying tick­ets to watch him play. 
Why can we not live in a world in which athletes speak exactly what is on their minds? If a quarterback is frustrated by the play of his team’s defense, why not say so? If a coach thinks his star rookie choked in the fourth quarter, must he hide this? And if a basketball player thinks his newly formed team will win not four, not five, not 
six rings and 
makes this 
belief public, 
about his im­age than the problems at hand. This is harsh, true, and in no way should one blame Federer for this, nor should one believe Federer has calculated that his image needs protect­ing. This de facto protection of an athlete’s image is uncon­scious and innate. But why is this the case? 
When Tiger Woods won the Chevron World Challenge, his first tournament victory since 2009, he was asked if this win would serve as a springboard to next season and would be just the first step toward returning to his former greatness. His re­sponse was bland: He was just excited to have won. It felt good, and it was a great weekend of golf. 
But what was Woods really thinking? 
“You better believe this is a springboard! I’m back, baby, and anyone who isn’t careful is them to do 
it. Journal­
ists, fans and analysts bash athletes for speaking their mind — not for having those feelings (which is only natural), but for making them public. We criticize poli­ticians for concerning them­selves only with image, yet we have forced our athletes to do the same. 
But really, in the end, I just want to thank my fellow writ­ers, because without them none of this would be possible. I’ll come back out tomor­row and work hard and keep trying to get better. Oh, and I just need to keep taking it one article at a time. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu
   The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles prepare for dual meet 

By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
With only two meets re­maining before the all-im­portant MIAA Championship in February, the Belles’ win­dow is dwindling to prove 
they can take home a confer­ence champion­ship. 
Coming off a 146-102 defeat at the hands of Olivet College on Tuesday, the Belles hope to redeem them­selves Friday in a dual meet with Alma Col­lege and Calvin College. 
“My expecta­tions are the same for all our meets,” coach Mark Benishek said. “I want to and prepare them for the up­coming MIAA Championship. 
Alma will also try to get back to winning ways Friday, as they fell to Albion College last weekend. 
While the Belles are led by their senior leadership, Calvin has a talented group of under­classmen making their own mark. 
This group includes the tri­umvirate of freshman Erika Waugh, sophomore Samantha Musol and freshman Kathryn Wrobel. Waugh has the team’s fastest times in the 50, 100 and 200 back, while Musol has the fastest time in the 50 free. Wrobel has the fastest time in the 375 free. 
“Every conference dual meet is preparation for the confer­ence championships,” Ben­ishek said. “Each meet gives the team a preview of their competition. This allows us to fine tune our training and put us in a place to succeed.” 
The competition will take place at the Venema Aquatic Center on the campus of Cal­vin College in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
rymple was the Belles’ star, winning the 100 breaststroke with a time of 1:12.31. She also won the 200 breaststroke with a time of 2:34.81 and the 200 individual medley in 2:18.28. 
She continued the trend of strong swims by the St. Mary’s 
upper­classmen. 
“Our se­nior lead­ership has been 
“Their senior leadership 
a strong 
has been great and they point all have backed it up with year. Ka­strong swims. We know tie Dono­we can always count on van, Me-them for motivation.” gan Price 
and Au­drey Dal-
Mark Benishek 
rymple
Saint Mary’s Swimming Coach 
have all had strong perfor­m a nc e s,” Benishek said. “Their se­
see my swimmers swim their fastest and never give up on themselves or their team­mates.” 
Despite the loss, there were a few bright spots in the Oliv­et meet. Senior Audrey Dal­nior leadership has been great and they have backed it up with strong swims. We know we can always count on them for motivation.” 
Calvin and Alma will pro­vide a stiff test for the Belles 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish open spring season at home 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The highly touted Irish be­gin their competitive season this weekend with a match against Cincinnati on Sat­urday, followed by matches against Missouri and IPFW on Sunday. 
The contests pose new chal­lenges for a Notre Dame squad that has not faced any of this weekend’s opposing squads in several years. 
“This is our first time play­ing these teams,” senior cap­tain Kristy Frilling said. “We don’t really know much about them. We’re just going into it ready to play our matches and see what happens.” 
The Irish squad returned a week early from winter break and has spent the extra time preparing for upcoming com­petition. With the beginning of the season comes new goals, and Frilling is ready to make the best of her final semester at Notre Dame. 
Frilling said she and fellow captain and senior Shannon Mathews plan to make this season their best with the Irish. 
“We want to win all of our matches, and we’re really look­ing forward to our senior sea­son,” Frilling said.  “We plan on putting our heart in ev­ery match and making sure it comes back with good results.” 
Mathews said that having three matches so early in the season serves as a great start­ing point for herself and her teammates. 
“We’re really excited for these three matches,” she said. “We’re fortunate to have three matches to test our doubles play and our singles and things we’ve been working on at prac­tice.” 
Mathews added she is look­ing forward to see the goals the team set in the beginning of the season come to fruition. 
“As a team right now, one of the main goals is to come out and give everything, ev­ery practice and every match,” Mathews said. “We’re hoping to bring home another Big East championship. We’re taking it match by match. Our first goal is to take care of business against Cincinnati and then we’ll take it match by match, focusing on the little things and the little details that will give us the suc­cess later in the season.” 
As co-captains, Frilling and Mathews have been working to keep their team motivated. 
“We’ve been trying to keep everyone very motivated and very excited about the match­es,” Frilling said. “It’s super exciting for the freshmen and sophomores because this is only their first or second time around, and the first match is always the most exciting be­cause you want to make the best of it.” 
Mathews added she would like to make up for the late loss in doubles competition with her partner Frilling at Nationals last fall. 
“A little revenge after the fall season would definitely be sweet,” Mathews said. 
The Irish will take the court against Cincinnati on Saturday at 1 p.m. at home before tak­ing on Missouri at 11 a.m. and IPFW at 5 p.m. in a pair of Sun­day matches. 

Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Little surfer little one So I say from me to you Wouldn’t it be nice if we were older In the morning when the day is new 
FOR RENT PERSONAL Made my heart come all undone I will make your dreams come true Then we wouldn’t have to wait so And after having spent the day Do you love me, do you surfer girl Do you love me do you surfer girl long together Surfer girl my little surfer girl Surfer girl my little surfer girl And wouldn’t it be nice to live Hold each other close the whole 
together night through ROOM FOR RENT IN A NEW 3 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t I have watched you on the shore Well In the kind of world where we BEDROOM TOWNHOUSE IN IVY go it alone. Notre Dame has many Standing by the oceans roar Girl surfer girl my little surfer girl belong Happy times together we’ve been QUAD, ADJACENT TO CAMPUS. resources in place to assist you. Do you love me do you surfer girl spending 
If you or someone you love needs Surfer girl surfer girl Well You know its gonna make it that I wish that every kiss was $700+UTILITIES. confidential support or assistance, Girl surfer girl my little surfer girl much better neverending please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 We could ride the surf together When we can say goodnight and Wouldn’t it be nice SCORGAN@ND.EDU or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more While our love would grow Well stay together information, visit ND’s website at: In my woody I would take you Girl surfer girl my little surfer girl Maybe if we think and wish and (908)268-9020 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu everywhere I go Wouldn’t it be nice if we could hope and pray it might come true wake up 
Friday, January 20, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Weekend matches to pose new challenges 

By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will be back in ac­tion this weekend as they host William & Mary on Friday night before traveling to Cham­paign, Ill., to take on Illinois on Sunday afternoon. 
Notre Dame (2-0) enters the weekend fresh off strong victo­ries over Illinois State and Tole­do. Despite the team’s convinc­ing victories, Irish coach Bobby Bayliss believes the team needs to focus on the challenges this weekend presents. 
“Getting those wins last weekend was great,” Bayliss said, “But we need to move on and get ready for the challeng­es this weekend brings. Every match is different and every match presents new challeng­es, so we always need to be well prepared.” 
Bayliss added home-court advantage could benefit his team Friday night. 
“There are two reasons why our team really likes to play at home,” he said. “Firstly, our guys are comfortable playing at home. Secondly, they are famil­iar with the Eck Tennis Center. When we go on the road, we have to get acclimated to a new playing service. Every facility is different, so there are often many adjustments that need to be made.” 
The strong doubles play of William & Mary will present an opportunity for the Irish doubles teams to step up. 
“William & Mary is a pretty good team, and its doubles teams are solid,” Bayliss said. “The No. 1 doubles team took down a North Carolina team last weekend that beat us last year, so they definitely have some strong players. Our dou­bles teams have been improv­ing, so it will be interesting to see how they handle the chal­lenge William & Mary will bring.” 
Hitting the road, the Irish will take on a very talented Illi­nois team in a regional rivalry match Sunday. 
“Illinois is always a competi­tive team, and we cannot af­ford to take them lightly,” Bayl­iss said. “Last season, it was a top-10 team, and this year it is a top-20 team. I think our squad is very comparable. It would be reasonable to predict that the score will be 4-3 going in either direction.” 
When discussing the Illini, Bayliss noted the importance of strong play from his singles players. 
“Illinois has two really strong players in senior Den­nis Nevolo, who is ranked No. 2 nationally, and senior Roy Kal­manovich, who is a very solid player,” he said. “They are go­ing to provide strong competi­tion for [senior Casey] Watt and [sophomore Greg] Andrews, but I know our guys are up to the task.” 
Bayliss added there are three things he would like his team to achieve by the time the final point is played Sunday. 
“Obviously, I would like to come away from the weekend with two victories,” Bayliss said, “But, I would also like to see our doubles play continue to improve and for our singles lineup to shape up. Last week­end, we played ten guys who all contributed quite well, so, it should be interesting to see who steps up again. We have more guys who are capable of being starters than we do starting positions, and that is a good problem to have.” 
The Irish will host William & Mary Friday night at 6 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Center and will hit the court against the Illini on Sunday at 4 p.m. 

Contact Walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 
Spartans 
continued from page 16 
One area where the Irish hope to excel is in the diving portion of the meet. Freshmen Michael Kreft and Nick Nemetz, along with Junior Ryan Koter, are coming off a sweep of both div­ing events against Northwest­ern. 
“One thing in our favor is div­ing,” Welsh said. “[Michigan State] is thin in diving, with only one diver.” 
Spartan Jacob Jarzen comes into the meet with confidence after picking up three individual first-place finishes in the 100­yard backstroke, 200-yard back­stroke and the 100-yard butterfly against Purdue. Irish swimmers sophomore Frank Dyer and ju­nior Kevin Overholt look to re­peat the success they had Satur­day against Northwestern. Both swimmers finished with multi­ple first place performances. 
With four weeks left until the Big East championships, the meet against Michigan State will be the last dual meet the Irish compete in this season before shifting focus towards the post­season. 
“It’s a time when we want to be pretty sharp and rested, but still working hard to improve,” Welsh said. “We want to see what our new normal is at this meet now that we’re back from training and students are in their regu­lar schedules again. It’ll be a good chance for us to say, ‘This is where we are, and this is what we need to do to be faster than ever.’” 
With championship season in mind, Welsh hopes to see marked individual improvements. 
“I need to see improvement this week,” Welsh said. “We’re all about getting better. Guys care about how much they im­prove. In swimming and in life, it’s important for people to com­mit themselves to improving and then follow through. We need guys to follow through this week.” 
According to Welsh, the team is excited about its recent per­formance and eager to see how it translates at the Big East cham­pionships. 
“We’ve done well,” Welsh said. “Were excited to see how all this is going to turn out, and we’ll get a first good look at that on Sat­urday.” 
The Irish take on the Spartans on Saturday at 2 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

Contact Jonathan Warren at jwarren3@nd.edu 
page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, January 20, 2012 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish prepare to host Invitational 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Both Irish squads will partic­ipate in the daylong Notre Dame Invitational meet Saturday, hoping to use the Invitational as preparation for later meets this season. 
For junior Jeremy Rae and the men’s team, the Invitational is just another step en route to the team’s goal of winning the Big East meet. While the Invi­tational is one of the smaller meets of the season, Rae said it is important for the team to perform well. 
“Our team’s long-term goal is to win the Big East meet,” Rae said. “The meet this weekend is team, which will help at the Big one of the smaller meets of the East meet.” season, but it’s important for us Rae said the toughest compe­to get qualified for the bigger tition Notre Dame will face this meets later in the year, and the weekend comes from DePaul Notre Dame Invitational is an and Michigan State. opportunity to do so.” “DePaul has some great 
The Irish will look to their throwers and Michigan State sprinters for strong scores. will have some talented middle-Freshman Chris Giesting re-distance and distance runners cently garnered Big East Track entered,” he said. “There isn’t & Field Athlete of the Week ac-really any pressure going into colades for his performance meets like this one. Seeing as in the Blue & Gold Invitational the meets only get more com­400-meter dash earlier this petitive from here, this serves season. His time of 47.40 was as a way to race ourselves into the fastest in the country as of shape and prepare for the Big Dec. 6. East meet and Nationals.” 
“We’ve all been really excited The women’s team also ex-about the way [Giesting] has pects to use this race as a been running,” Rae said. “We warm-up for bigger meets later now have the tools to have a in the season. Senior captain really competitive 4x400 relay Maddie Buttinger’s goals for the 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Coming off loss, Belles ready to take on Alma 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will face a familiar foe Saturday as the second rotation of MIAA conference play begins against Alma. No. 4 Calvin defeated the Belles (7-10, 3-5 MIAA) 80-54 Wednesday night. 
Despite the inability to take down the undefeated Knights, Saint Mary’s coach Jennifer Henley praised her team’s sound fundamental play throughout the contest. 
“I think we played stretch­es of very good defense last night against Calvin,” Hen­ley said. “I thought our team did a pretty good job on the boards rebounding as well.” 
Now Saint Mary’s will at­tempt to earn a bounce-back victory against Alma, who it defeated earlier in the sea­son. 
In the first meeting, the Belles beat the Scots (4-13, 2-6) 72-50 as senior for­ward Patsy Mahoney led the way with 19 points. Saint Mary’s took a 30-22 lead at halftime and pulled away in the second half, going up by as many as 25 points. The Belles also out-rebounded the Scots 44-34 and convert­ed 37 points off turnovers. 
Still, Henley said the team is not overlooking a conference opponent. 
“We have to be ready defen­sively for them and continue to attack on offense in order to win,” she said. 
Along with Gooding, Alma freshman Grace Wheeler has been key for the Scots, aver­aging 9.3 points per game and leading the team in scoring. The Scots will also have an ad­vantage playing at home, where they have earned all their wins this season and have compiled a 4-3 mark. 
The Belles, on the other hand, are 3-7 away from home. To avoid continuing road strug­gles, Henley said her team would need to be more effec­tive on offense. Over the course of the season, Saint Mary’s has shot 38.3 percent from the field, compared to its oppo­nents’ mark of 43 percent. 
“We need to execute better with the ball and create more second-shot opportunities,” Henley said. 
Saint Mary’s will look to im­prove offensively and earn its fifth conference win Saturday at 7 p.m. at Alma. 

Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 

women’s team are similar to Rae’s. 
“We definitely want to im­prove our standings from last year at the Big East meet,” she said. “Our goal is to be a top-three team at the Big East In­door and Outdoor Champion­ships, possibly contending for the team title.” 
The Irish will count on recent success from Buttinger, fresh­man Kaila Barber and junior hurdler Nevada Sorenson to carry momentum into the Notre Dame Invitational this week­end. 
The Invitational opens with the men’s and women’s long jump at 10 a.m. 

Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Spartans head to Notre Dame after consecutive losses 
By MATTHEW UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Having fallen short in three straight meets dating back to No­vember, the Irish welcome an op­portunity to reverse that trend Saturday when they host a strug­gling Michigan State squad. The Spartans last won a meet against St. Bonaventure in November and recently lost to Ball State and In­diana. 
The Michigan State swimmers are familiar foes for the Irish, as the two schools competed in the Ohio State Invitational in early December. The Irish (3-5) and Spartans ( placed fourth and fifth respectively in the five-team event. 
Junior Jenny Rusch is one of the Spartans’ top swimmers, as she has excelled in the 50-yard and 100-yard freestyle events, winning the 100-yard event in the Purdue meet and the 50-yard freestyle against Ball State. Junior swimmer Alexandra Pierce has also been a consistent performer for Michigan State in the individu­al medley and butterfly events. 
However, no Michigan State swimmer has earned the acco­lades of Irish freshman Emma Reaney. She earned her third Big East Swimmer of the Week award of the season with three first-place finishes in last Saturday’s double-dual meet against Michigan and Northwestern. Reaney will at­tempt to follow up the award with a strong performance on Saturday. 
One matchup of particular in­terest will be the 1-meter and 3-meter diving events between Irish junior Jenny Chiang and Spartan senior Sarah Clay. 
Chiang recently took first in the 1-meter event during Notre Dame’s double-dual meet against Michigan and Northwestern and placed second in the 3-meter event. Meanwhile, Clay swept the diving events in the Spartans’ meet against Purdue and earned the Big Ten Diver of the Week award in November. 
This will be the final home dual meet of the season for the Irish at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Following its meet with the Spartans, Notre Dame will host the two-day Shamrock Invitation­al from Jan. 27 through Jan. 28. 

Contact Matthew Unger at munger3@nd.edu 



page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, January 20, 2012 
Burn 
continued from page 16 
of putting it would be we need to be overly patient. We can’t take quick shots. That burn mental­ity has permeated through [the team]. It’s been a good teach­ing tool to understand patience 
McGraw 
continued from page 16 
-ter every game, and you have to come into practice ready to work hard the next day, and that is what this team has been so good at. They’ve got their eye on the present, and we are try­ing to stay focused on the pres­ent.” 
Meanwhile, the Wildcats (12­6, 2-3) are coming to South Bend fresh off winning the 2011-2012 Philadelphia Big Five Champi­onship with a convincing 52­30 win over Pennsylvania. The victory marked the team’s 13th Big Five title under head coach Harry Perretta. Averaging 59.5 points this season and allow­ing just 52.1, Villanova features a slow-paced half-court game that graduate student guard Brittany Mallory said the team has been preparing for in prac­tice. 
“In practice we get frustrated [by Villanova’s style of play], and that’s the best place to get it out because when it comes game time, we need to be per­fect and we need to execute,” Mallory said. “It’s going to be a against teams that want to run.” 
In its last two losses, Notre Dame has experienced some of­fensive struggles and has failed to reach the 60-point mark in both contests. 
Sophomore guard Eric Atkins and graduate student forward Scott Martin were the only Irish players to reach double-digit point totals against Rutgers, 
little frustrating. They shoot a lot of threes and they make a lot of passes in one 30-second of­fense, so we are going to have to move past the frustration and keep playing.” 
McGraw echoed Mallory’s sentiments on the uniqueness of the Wildcats’ style. 
“We don’t ever want to play Villanova,” she said. “It’s a dif­ficult game to prepare for; it doesn’t really help you to pre­pare for anybody else; it’s a completely different scout. It’s like an anomaly in the middle of the season. It will be difficult to switch gears, and if they are able to slow us down, we’ve got to play a half-court game.” 
In addition to dealing with Villanova’s pace, McGraw em­phasized a few other key points the Irish will look to improve upon. 
“We have plenty of things to work on,” McGraw said. “We are looking at doing some dif­ferent things with our press. Defensively we can get better, rebounding-wise, guarding the ball screen. I think there are a lot of things that we can im­prove on, and we just need to keep working to get better.” 
Those things will be es-posting 15 and 11 points, re­spectively. The Orange, mean­while, have yet to score fewer than 70 points in a Big East matchup this season. 
The Irish and Orange will tip­off Saturday at 6 p.m. at the Pur­cell Pavilion. 

Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
pecially important for Notre Dame when it takes on No. 7 Tennessee on Monday at home. The 15-4 Vols, led by coach Pat Summitt, have averaged 78.4 points so far this season and feature a pair of elite scorers in versatile senior guard-for­ward Shekinna Stricklen and graduate student forward Glory Johnson. 
But according to McGraw, the Irish will not be looking past the Wildcats. 
“I don’t think it will be diffi­cult,” she said. “It is a Big East game, and I think when the Big East teams come in, we have al­ways got to be ready. “ 
Mallory said the keys to be­ing ready for Saturday will be communication and defending Villanova’s half-court game.
 “Coming to play Villanova, it’s going to be about commu­nication and our defense more importantly, so we are not re­ally looking past them,” she said. “We know it’s going to be a tough game, it always is.” 
The Irish tip off against the Wildcats at the Purcell Pavilion on Saturday at 1 p.m. 

Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
for a few days, their preparation 
Bednarski 
began months ago during the 
fall season. continued from page 16 “We had training yesterday 
and two days ago,” Bednarski weaker than usual because said, “but kids were competing of the Olympic games, but we for four months during the fall.” are confident that [the under-Bednarski said he is confi­classmen] can step in in their dent the Irish are prepared af­absence.” ter a strong preseason practice 
The absence has opened schedule. up an opportunity for the “The fall was very hard. We younger generation of fenc-worked very hard,” he said. ers to step up and prove their “There was a lot of training. 
mettle. The  Ev e r y o n e  
v e t e r a n s have been  “For us, results are  wasvery   working hard. I  
guiding the  unknown. We don’t have  think that we  
y o u n g e r fencers in p r a c t i c e and in com- huge expectations, but we expect from them very ambitious positions.”  are very well p r e p a r e d . Physically, we should be very  
petition to ensure that the Irish  Janusz Bednarski Irish coach  well prepared. Mentally, I be­lieve as well.”  

are not only strong at the top, but across the roster. 
“What we have noticed al­ready in practice and in the bouts is a great cooperation between team members, es­pecially younger and older,” Bednarski said. “Upperclass­men, seniors, were helping the younger fencers during the practice and in the com­petition in Colorado Springs [on Jan. 7].” 
The men opened their sea­son at the Western Duals on Jan. 7 on the campus of the Air Force Academy with a sweep. The Irish beat Cal Tech, UC San Diego, Swarth­more, Air Force, Stanford and Florida, including two 27-0 decisions. 
Although the fencers have only been back on campus Because 
of the team’s youth this weekend, victory is not as certain as it has been in past meets. Nevertheless, Bed­narski is hopeful his team’s co­hesion and ability, even without four returning all-Americans, will lead Notre Dame to victory. 
“For us, results are un­known,” Bednarski said. “We don’t have huge expectations, but we expect from them very ambitious positions. They will continue to try to improve dur­ing bouts and qualify for the na­tional finals.” 
The St. John’s Duals run all day Saturday and the NYU In­vitational runs all day Sunday. Both the men’s and women’s teams will compete. 

Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

Friday, January 20, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 
HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE
THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, January 20, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
By ANDREW OWENS  
Associate Sports Editor  
After suffering consecutive  
conference losses, the Irish re­ 
turn to action at home Saturday  
against top-ranked Syracuse.  
The Orange (20-0, 7-0 Big  
East) are off to their best start  
in school history, as they had  
never started a season with 20  
consecutive wins before defeat­ 
ing Pittsburgh 71-63 on Mon­ 
day.  
Irish coach Mike Brey said  
he is excited about the team’s  
opportunity to play No. 1 Syra­ 
cuse, adding that the return of  
the student body from winter  
break is a big advantage for his  
squad.  
“[Playing No. 1] is a great op­ 
portunity for us,” he said. “It’s  
another league game, but it’s a  
special league game. I love the  
fact that our students are back.  
We have missed our sixth man  
in this building. We’re 29-1 in  
our last 30 games in this build­ 
ing. We’d like to get our students  
and their energy back.”  
The one home loss during that  KEVIN SONG/The Observer  
stretch came in Notre Dame’s  Junior forward Jack Cooley slams in a basket during Notre Da me’s 87-78 home victory over  
last home game, a 67-53 defeat  Maine on Dec. 8.  Cooley is ave raging 10.4 points and 8.3 rebounds per game.  
to Connecticut last Saturday.  
Brey said it is important Notre  to control tempo,” he said. “We  trolling tempo.”  “We’re always kind of burn- 
Dame (11-8, 3-3) plays its style  can’t run up and down the floor  The coach went on to stress  ing. I would say we’re semi- 
in order to compete against the  with them. They have too many  the importance of his team’s ad- burning a lot of times with this  
vaunted and deep Orange ros­ bodies to do that with. When we  herence to the ‘burn offense’ he  team,” Brey said. “A better way  
ter.  have won here the last couple of  has installed to slow down the  
 
“We’re really going to have  years, we’ve been good at con- pace of play.  see BURN/page 14  

MEN’S BASKETBALL 
No. 1 task 
FENCING 
Youth will lead way to NYC 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame continues its quest to defend its 2011 na­tional championship this weekend at the St. John’s Duals in the Big Apple. De­spite its position as defend­ing champions, Irish coach Janusz Bednarski thinks his team is an underdog in the New York City meets. 
“We are not the favorite of this competition,” Bednar­ski said. “But we will try to show all the country that we are Notre Dame, that we are fighting and we will be fine.” 
The Irish have not taken a step back in training, but they have lost several key members of the squad to the 2012 Olympic trials. Seniors Ewa Nelip, Courtney Hurley, Gerek Meinhardt and sopho­more Ariel DeSmet will not be with the team in Queens. 
“We know that a lot of teams are very strong,” Bed­narski said. “We are a bit 
see BEDNARSKI/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Unconventional offense to challenge the Irish 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
After the offensive explosion that was Notre Dame’s 120-44 win over Pittsburgh Tuesday, the No. 2 Irish look to maintain their momentum as they face the challenges of Villanova’s slower-paced game on Satur­day. 
“Villanova is a really difficult team to guard,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “They are going to hold the ball, they are going to try to keep the score in the 40s, 50s — as low as they possibly can. Of course, we want to score more, so it’s go­ing to be a battle of pace. 
“I think they are going to slow it down, use a lot of the shot clock. They are going to shoot a ton of threes, 25 or 30 threes. We have got to be able to guard them because they have a great motion offense.” 
Though the Irish (18-1, 6-0 Big East) are coming off a blowout win that broke six school scoring records, Mc­Graw said the victory has not made her squad lax. 
“I think you have to be fo­cused and have your eye on the goal, which is to get bet 
see MCGRAW/page 14 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
ND to face Spartans in dual meet 
By JONATHAN WARREN 
Sports Writer 
With the Big East tourna­ment quickly approaching, the Irish look to capitalize on their momentum when they take on Michigan State in a dual meet Saturday. The Irish have won their last two contests, a dual meet against Northwestern and the Copa Coqui tournament in Puerto Rico. 
The Spartans are coming off a 180.5-107.5 loss to Big Ten opponent Purdue, who defeated the Irish earlier in the season by a similar mar­gin, 184-113. 
“We’re expecting a chal­lenge,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “They lost to Purdue as close as we did. We’ve improved since then, but we’re expecting a close meet.” 

The Spartans edged out the Irish 155.5-144.5 around this time last year in East Lansing. Now, Michigan State comes to South Bend looking to defeat the surging Irish again. 
“Their front line is very fast,” Welsh said. “Typically, they race very well against us.” 
see SPARTANS/page 11 





