The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 42 | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ELECTION 2012 

Senate races shift as Election Day approaches 
Mourdock’s debate comments complicate Indiana Senate race 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news writer 

The indiana senatorial race seemed like an easy win for the republicans at the begin­ning of election season, but now republican candidate richard mourdock, the indiana state treasurer, and democrat Joe donnelly, congressional rep­resentative for indiana’s 2nd district, are in the middle of a dead heat in the race for the seat. 
mourdock beat republican incumbent sen. richard lugar in the may primary, when sev­eral staunch conservative groups backed him early. lugar, a mod­erate conservative, had wide support transcending partisan divides, notre dame professor and former political reporter Jack colwell said. 
“lugar was known for reach­ing across the aisle and try­ing to reach a consensus with democrats,” colwell said. “lugar probably would have been a shoo-in, but when mourdock 
see indiana PAGE 4 





Republicans, Democrats compete for Senate majority 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor 

Thirty-three seats are up for grabs in the united states senate during this election, but notre dame professors are still not convinced the republican chal­lenge to the democratic major­ity will be enough to earn gop dominance in tight races around the country. 
The democratic majority in the current senate is slim, with just 51 seats to the republican’s 
47. political science professor geoffrey layman predicted the fight for the senate majority would be closer than originally anticipated this year. 
“i do expect the republicans to challenge the democratic ma­jority, but i think it will be very close,” layman said. “i think six months or a year ago, there was sort of an expectation that the republicans would almost cer­tainly gain the majority because of the big seat gains in 2010 in the house, less so in the senate.” 
see senaTe PAGE 6 



Authors debate gay marriage 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
The co-authors of “debating same-sex marriage” tackled the hot-button issue last night at a debate by the same name. 
maggie gallagher, former president of the national organization for marriage, and John corvino, chair of philosophy at wayne state university, discussed how each believes same-sex mar­riage would impact children, society and the institution of marriage. 
see marriage PAGE 5 



game hype drives fans to oklahoma 
By DAN BROMBACH 
news writer 
distance, steep ticket prices and a potentially hostile envi­ronment were not enough to keep some devoted fans from planning a trip to norman this saturday to witness a top­10 football clash between the oklahoma sooners and the notre dame Fighting irish. 
Junior peter roemholdt said he is willing to endure the 30-hour roundtrip drive from south bend in order to experience the renowned atmosphere at oklahoma’s gaylord Family memorial stadium. 
“The atmosphere is going to be electric,” roehmholdt said. “i bet it’s going to be extreme­ly loud, and especially if it’s a close game, it should be quite the experience.” 
Junior John garry, who is traveling as part of the notre dame marching band, said he also is excited to support the team and be there for one of the most important games 
see oklahoma PAGE 5 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
If you were in a pumpkin carving contest, what would you carve? 

Channing Foster 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“all-american ryan mcdonough.” 
David Diaz 
junior 
alumni hall 
“money as a bribe.” 
Judy Scharf 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“manti Te’o.” 


Pete McGinley 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“Tuxedo T-shirt Jesus.” 
Ryan Huhn 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“Fr. hesburgh’s shining face.” 
Sarah Bradtke 
sophomore 
badin hall 
“Fr. george [rozum].” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

anna boarini Joe monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
annmarie Jakubowski sam gans maddie daly aaron sant-miller 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
sara shoemake carrie Turek 
Photo Viewpoint 

Writing Successful “next to normal” AfterMath Event “The Effective BAVO Speaker 
kirby mckenna dan brombach 
Grants Washington Hall 105 Science Hall Leadership” Student Center (SMC) McKenna Hall 7:30 p.m.-10 p.m. (SMC) Carole Sandner Hall 7 p.m. 9 a.m.-12 p.m. PEMCo’s fall 1 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 3 p.m.-4:30 p.m. The Belles Against 
Corrections 

Introductory workshop producation, a rock A panel of alumnae talk An Irish perspective Violence Office hosts 
The observer regards itself as for grant writing. musical. about careers. from Mary Hanafin. Debbie Riddle. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
NBA Exhibition Game Film: “Take this Vision Walk Film: “Alotrolado, To Art Dept. Fundraiser 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Purcell Pavilion Waltz” Fundraiser the Other Side” Riley Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. DeBartolo Perfoming Irish Green Geddes Hall 11 a.m.-2 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Joakim Noah and the Arts Center 1:30 p.m.-5 p.m. 7 p.m. Chili cookoff. Funds 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Chicago Bulls face the 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m. $15 registration fee for Screening and panel go to breast cancer 
we can correct our error. 

Indiana Pacers. $4 for students. stem cell research. discussion. screenings. 


Design students bridge gaps 

By TORI ROECK 
news writer 
over fall break, 14 design students attempted to bridge the gap between notre dame and the south bend commu­nity through a design blitz led by John bielenberg, founder of the design service program project m. 
bielenberg is a pioneer of the “thinking wrong” approach to design, which involves draw­ing inspiration for projects in unconventional ways, and project m implements design projects conceived through this method to address social problems. 
senior industrial design ma­jor alisa rantanen said stu­dents followed the thinking wrong approach in conceiving of their projects, starting with brainstorming words. 
“it started with brainstorm­ing and mind-mapping ran­dom words, not even design related,” rantanen said. “each group was given a prompt. so my group was given ‘rick James’ and ‘chalk,’ and all in one day we were told, ‘go make a project based on that.’” 
Three different projects emerged from the brain­storming session: chalk talk, proJecTiion and in south bend. 
rantanen said her group worked on chalk talk and painted a chalkboard wall in downtown south bend so peo­ple could share their thoughts with the community. 
“it’s a way to give them a voice where otherwise many people wouldn’t be heard,” she said. “The next phase is to bring it to notre dame.” 
The prompts on the wall say “i am,” “i think,” “i feel” and “i dream,” rantanen said. 
industrial design gradu­ate student kevin melchiorri said proJecTiion stands for “projecting interactive images on neighborhoods.” The project’s goal is to project meaningful images on visible buildings in downtown south bend at night, he said. 
“This process creates a beacon that invites, unites and empowers viewers through selected content,” melchiorri said. 

proJecTiion also works with chalk talk to project images of the chalk wall, melchiorri said. 
“we are currently collabo­rating with chalk talk and have plans to create a series of projects in the future that 
“We used this to drive our concepts around creating an atmosphere of fun, new experiences and excitement around student trips downtown.” 
Jeff McLean 
junior 

involve video games, movies, lighting, restaurant and lo­cal business promotion and kinetic energy from the audi­ence’s physical participation,” he said. 
in south bend is an ini­tiative to get a trolley to run from main circle to down­town south bend to encour­age more students to visit. Junior graphic design major Jeff mclean said the idea for the project was based on the phrase “insane clown posse struggle bus.” 
“we used this to drive our concepts around creating an atmosphere of fun, new ex­periences, and excitement around student trips down­town,” mclean said. “an im­portant component of doing this effectively was to make going downtown a tangi­bly branded experience for students.” 
To promote the project, mclean said his group built a “bus” out of pvc pipe and tied balloons to it. They filmed themselves traveling downtown, leaving a balloon at each place they stopped. The group then posted the video online and asked view­ers to sign a petition to make the bus a reality, he said. 
senior industrial design major bobby reichle, a part of the group that developed in south bend, said he hopes the project will draw more stu­dents downtown because the area has a lot to offer. 
“For me, my favorite place in south bend is the main street coffee house, and no one knows it exists,” reichle said. “i want people to move beyond the cookie-cutter stores of eddy street and actu­ally see the local character of downtown south bend. There is actually some worthwhile stuff there.” 
senior industrial design major airi kobayashi said the design blitz forced the stu­dents to interact with south bend in a new way and to talk to community members to learn more about the area. 
“we realized how much south bend has more to offer than we thought there was and how much of a discon­nect there was from the notre dame community to south bend,” kobayashi said. 
The blitz’s format and short time limit also enabled the students to put design skills they learned in the classroom to practical use, rantanen said. 
“i knew this was going to be a super-creative, super-in­tense process, and i wanted to get … the messier side of actu­ally making things real,” she said. 
rantanen said seeing her project come alive was one of the best parts of the blitz. 
“This was a great opportu­nity to do something and see the direct impact,” she said. “our chalk wall — less than 24 hours later, people had writ­ten all over it, so it was really rewarding to have that imme­diate impact.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
lawyer discusses disability rights 
By SHANNON O’BRIEN 
news writer 
erick acuña pereda deliv­ered a presentation yester­day in the eck hall of law discussing the challenges and obstacles facing region­al human rights systems to incorporate the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd), a treaty adopted in 2006. 
acuña is currently a re­searcher for the peruvian working group of the ibero­american network of experts on the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. his lecture was sponsored by the notre dame law school’s center for civil and human rights. 
acuña started by explain­ing the importance of hav­ing certain laws to protect 
the  rights  of  those  with  
disabilities.  
“according  to  a  re­ 

port by the world health organization this year, there are more than 4 million peo­ple with mental disabilities throughout the world, and seven percent of these peo­ple live in developing coun­tries,” acuña said. 
“i think it is so important to discuss this topic because whether you work in a public institution or a civil society we should always try to take into account the disability approach either by public policy, litigation or work­shops, and know that people with disabilities should have a voice and should be part of it and be included.” 
while in law school, acuña said he first became in­terested in the issue while choosing his thesis topic. 
“i wanted to research about certain groups that are in a situation of vulnerability, but i wanted it to be a new topic that hadn’t been talked about before,” he said. “after talking with my professor and researching, i ran into indigenous people, african american people, migrants, and women and children, but then i read about people with disabilities.” 
acuña said he was struck by the lack of literature on the topic. 
“what struck me the most was that there is almost nothing written on it,” he said. “They are suffering a lot and there are injustices regarding their disabilities, so that’s why i thought it was a really important topic to write about.” 
acuña said there is a ma­jor difference between the medical approach and social approach to the crpd. 
prior to the crpd, the medical approach defined disabled people as mental patients with abnormalities of body structure, appear­ance or function of an organ or system. however, after the crpd the entire dynam­ic and climate of the discus­sion of the rights of those with disabilities changed, he said. 
“before the adoption of the crpd, people with men­tal disabilities were consid­ered very ill and therefore needed to be cured be medi­cal care,” acuña said. “The old definition of those who are mentally disabled has a very negative connotation and made it seem like these people were different from everyone else and needed protection.” 
acuña also discussed the right to legal capacity that he said is, “the most important pillar of the crpd treaty.” 
The  right to legal capacity bans the practice of guard­ianship for those with men­tal disabilities. under the crpd, it says there shouldn’t be substitution of decisions, he said, but instead there should be support in helping those with mental disabili­ties make decisions. 
“with this right to legal ca­pacity, they can make their own decisions and their own mistakes, just like everyone else does,” acuña said. 
Finally, acuña analyzed the approaches of the inter-american, european, and african legal sys­tems to those with mental disabilities. 
he said under the crpd, “states have the moral obli­gation to make everything that they can to actually cre­ate a situation where people with mental disabilities can fulfill or exercise their right of any convenience.” 
Contact Shannon O’Brien at sobrie12@nd.edu 



Indiana 
conTinued From page 1 
won the primary, that changed things in indiana.” 
another curveball flew in the race earlier this week in the sec­ond senatorial debate, when donnelly and mourdock an­swered a question about abor­tion. mourdock’s reply has stirred a national response. 
“i struggled with it myself for a long time, but i came to realize that life is that gift from god. and, i think, even when life begins in that horrible situation of rape, that it is something that god in­tended to happen,” mourdock said during the oct. 23 debate. 
mourdock later clarified he was not suggesting that god pre­ordains rape, and said his com­ment was misinterpreted. it has proven influential in discussion of both the senatorial and presi­dential elections, however. 
days before the debate, the mourdock campaign released an ad in which presidential can­didate mitt romney endorses mourdock. romney has since publicly expressed his disagree­ment with mourdock’s state­ment, but continues to endorse him. 
donnelly offered a press re­lease in response to mourdock’s comment. 
“i am pro-life, but this con­troversy is not about pro-life. it is about mr. mourdock’s words and his continuation of extreme positions,” he stated in the re­lease. “his words were extreme, but maybe as important, hurtful to survivors of sexual abuse. it is legitimate for hoosiers to ex­pect candidates running for the united states senate to not take such positions.” 
other indiana politicians have weighed in on the matter, including indiana democratic gubernatorial candidate John gregg, who released an official statement. 
“i was shocked by richard mourdock’s comments regard­ing survivors of rape,” he stated in the release. “rape is rape, and statements like these rub salt in the wounds of sexual assault sur­vivors everywhere.” 
colwell said it is too early for polls to show how the comment has affected the senatorial race, but the widespread media cover­age it received will surely make a difference. 
“not many people were watch­ing the actual debate, but the coverage is now on the front page of every paper,” colwell said. “it’s a big story everywhere, and we’ll find out soon enough it is big enough to tip the race for donnelly.” 
indiana has traditionally been a conservative stronghold, though the nuances of the indi­vidual races may threaten that status today, colwell said. 
“when [president] obama car­ried indiana four years ago, that was the first time since 1964 that a democrat carried indiana,” colwell said. “in the senate race, they split the ballot at times, so the democrats have a chance.” 
he said he thinks the selec­tion of mourdock over lugar in the republican primary may have been a dangerous move for the party, jeopardizing their stronghold. 
“if lugar were running, i think the race would be over, a republican win,” colwell said. “if mourdock loses, the ultra-con­servatives will have thrown away a certain republican senate seat since they thought it didn’t mat­ter which republican candidate ran.” 
colwell said he thinks mourdock’s chance for success in indiana is challenged by his tendency to make incendiary re­marks like this one. 
“mourdock was known for making some controversial com­ments. among other things, he said there is too much bipar­tisanship in washington, and also sought to block the chrysler recovery effort as state treasur­er,” colwell said. “That enabled donnelly to get closer in the polls.” 
The gap between donnelly and mourdock may be coming even closer after this week. colwell 
paid adverTisemenT 


said donnelly, a notre dame graduate, is challenging the tra­ditionally conservative indiana political climate with his biparti­san popularity. 
“donnelly is a moderate democrat, so that fits in per­fectly for him — he’s able to get in the middle with some of the democrats who would have voted lugar but are wary of mourdock,” colwell said. 
colwell said he expects mourdock’s comment to affect romney’s recent success in gain­ing female voters. 
“historically, women vote democrat, and just as romney is closing that gap nationally ac­cording to the polls, here comes this issue,” colwell said. “many think that what mourdock said would be especially offensive to women, especially young, single women that have been a real target for both presidential campaigns. 
“now, instead of being able to answer questions about the economy, he’s fielding questions about mourdock, and that’s the last thing they want in these clos­ing days.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 





Marriage 
conTinued From page 1 
corvino introduced his defense of gay marriage by arguing that it would not impact straight couples al­ready or seeking to become married. 
“gay people find happi­ness in same-sex marriage,” he said. “when they find that happiness, it does not take away anything from you. … giving marriage to gay people does not mean taking it away from straight people.” 
gallagher, however, said she believed allowing same-sex marriage would detract from the important societal norm defining marriage’s key purpose as building co­hesion between man, woman and child, an arrangement under which she believes children thrive most. 
“we need a cultural mech­anism for attaching father to mother and children for a bond and for communicat­ing to both men and women that there’s something very important at stake here,” she said. “children are at risk if parents don’t get and stay married and build ba­sic, average, decent-enough marriages.” 
gallagher supported her assertion by recounting her own experience as an un­married senior — and self-professed pro-life atheist 
— at yale in 1982, when she became pregnant. several years later, gallagher’s son began asking about his ab­sent father. 
“There’s something very deep in the human heart about [wanting a mother and father],” she said. “i wasn’t able to give him what my mother and father, working together, were able to give 
me.”  
corvino  cited  a  num­ 
ber  of  authorities,  in­ 
cluding  the  american  

psychological association and the american academy of pediatrics, claiming chil­dren of same-sex couples are not, in fact, worse off than those from heterosexual families. 
“when you compare intact same-sex couples with intact heterosexual couples, con­trolling for other variables, we find children do just as well,” he said. “every major health and welfare associa­tion that has commented on this issue has said the same thing.” 
gallagher pointed to the commonality of heterosexual marriage across time and societies, singling its insti­tution out as one of the only “universals” of human life. 
“marriage is a virtu­ally universal human so­cial institution,” she said. “marriage evolves and changes over time, and yet, over and over again in com­pletely different societies, there’s a certain basic shape that emerges.” 
she said the common three principles upon which 
“Marriage evolves and changes over time, and yet, over and over again in completely different societies, there’s a certain basic shape that emerges.” 
Maggie Gallagher 
former president 
National Organization for Marriage 
marriage is based through­out human cultures is the natural drive toward repro­ductive sex, society’s need to maintain a population and a child’s right to both a moth­er and a father. 
“This is not some archaic relic,” she said. “This is the common human experience.” 
corvino said marriage’s other purposes make it an important concept even for those unable to reproduce traditionally. 
“people say the natural purpose of sex and mar­riage is procreation,” he said. “it’s pretty clear to me that a natural purpose of sex and marriage is procre­ation, but the only purpose? it seems that sex has these other important purposes: the expression of affection, sharing of intimacy. … what do you say to infertile het­erosexual couples, or elderly couples, that their marriage is pointless?” 
beyond recognizing re­lationships, corvino said marriage offers crucial legal benefits to same-sex cou­ples, including healthcare rights, social security, im­migration and divorce. 
“it also does certain things legally for relationships,” he said. “one of the reasons for gay marriage is gay divorce.” 
gallagher said the legal aspects of marriage are sec­ondary to its purpose. 
“marriage as a legal con­tract is really not that signif­icant,” she said. “most of the legal structures, even the ones John described, have very little to do with what people expect, want or need in marriage.” 
The legal matters hanging in the balance, gallagher argued, are the rights of those opposed to gay mar­riage should it become a widespread institution, cit­ing an instance of a diver­sity officer at a college being suspending following her signing of a petition relating to the issue. 
“it gets worse because i think the classic under­standing of marriage is not only going to be repudiated, but it’s going to be actively oppressed by law, culture and society after same-sex marriage.” 
corvino said the real issue comes down to overlooking crucial aspects of human nature over issues of biology. 
“what so often happens in this debate is that we reduce people — and their lives and their feelings and relation­ships, and all that makes them up — to parts, and we miss the larger picture,” he said. “i think in this debate, we can do better than that.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
Oklahoma 
conTinued From page 1 
since the 2005 notre dame­usc showdown. despite hav­ing to leave on Thursday and drive through the night, garry said being a part of this game is still more than worth it. 
“it’s going to be rowdy, it’s going to be crazy,” garry said. “[espn’s] ‘college gameday’ will be there, so take what happened on our campus and multiply it. it should be a good day to be a college football fan.” 
roehmholdt said he is also looking forward to getting a taste of the oklahoma tailgat­ing culture before the game. 
“The tailgating will be great,” roehmholdt said. “a lot of these big schools pride themselves on their tailgates and pregame parties almost more than being at the game itself.” 
garry said band members won’t have much time for ac­tivities before the game, oc­cupied by a pep rally and with preparation for their halftime performance. 
“basically we’re just there to be at the game,” garry said. “performing will be fun. oklahoma fans are some of the rowdiest in the nation, so it will be great to get out there and be on the field for that.” 
despite being behind ene­my lines as a notre dame sup­porter, roehmholdt said he is not concerned about having to deal with potentially abusive or belligerent oklahoma fans. 
“it’s an 8:00 [p.m.] game, people will have been tail­gating for a while so i’m sure there will be some rowdy individuals, but it will be fine,” roehmholdt said. “i can han­dle a few ‘notre dame sucks.’” 
garry said he expects the crowd environment to be intense due to the implica­tions of the game, yet not as hostile as the atmosphere of michigan. 
“The notre dame­oklahoma rivalry isn’t quite as heated as other rivalries, and sooner fans are known for being incredibly courteous outside the stadium,” garry said. “once you get inside the stadium, it will be a different story. 
overall, roehmholdt said he anticipates the trip will be one of the highlights of his time at notre dame. 
“at the end of the day you’re not going to remem­ber the homework and the tests, you’re going to remem­ber the experiences you had at oklahoma for the biggest game in notre dame history for a long time,” roehmholdt said. 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Senate 
conTinued From page 1 
compared to 2010, when republican candidates — espe­cially those from the Tea party 
— enjoyed sweeping success in the house of representatives, layman said 2012 is more favor­able for the democratic party. in the past two years, the nation has seen slow improvements in the economy and a more posi­tive national attitude toward the affordable care act than when it was first proposed. 
“i think it is certainly a better year than 2010, which was an awful year for democrats,” he said. 
however, more of the seats up for reelection have tradition­ally been held by democrats and, with only a few states to swing for a senate majority, the gop has been fighting hard in election season.  Twenty-three democratic seats are on the bal­lot, as opposed to 10 republican. 
layman cited missouri, virginia and Florida as examples of states where democrats are trying to cling to a senate seat despite tough opposition from republican candidates. sen. claire mccaskill in missouri and sen. bill nelson in Florida are both democratic incumbents trying to keep their jobs, while the virginia seat is open to new challengers from both parties af­ter the retirement of incumbent sen. Jim webb. 
“a lot of those seats that the democrats have to defend, a fair number of them are in red states or at least states where the republicans are very competi­tive,” layman said. 
political science professor peri arnold also pointed to close rac­es in wisconsin, pennsylvania and ohio. even indiana, tradi­tionally a republican state, has become a more spirited battle this year. 
“The fact that indiana is con­tentious is a signal that the republicans are doing less well than they expected to do origi­nally,” arnold said. 
as they make their decisions, voters’ concerns in the senate races mirror the most important issues in the presidential race, arnold said. 
“They’re worried about the economy and economic growth and jobs … so that’s a major pitch, saying, ‘vote for me, i’ll contribute to a better economy,’” he said. “it isn’t like elections are rifle shots, one issue, one con­cern. but certainly the economy creates a climate.” 
layman also said the economy was the most important issue for voters in 2012. however, he said some states have seen other sig­nificant conversations come up in debate. 
“The feasibility of national health care and sort of the size and role of the federal govern­ment have been the big issues,” he said. “Then in a couple of key races like missouri and indiana, abortion has unexpectedly reared its ugly head.” 
republicans rep. Todd akin in missouri and, more recently, richard mourdock in indiana have faced criticism for public comments about their views against abortion. 
whichever party takes the ma­jority after election day, layman said the senators are in danger of falling into gridlock yet again. 
“The senate has increasingly been a body that finds itself un­able to do anything,” he said. “it’s completely gridlocked by the in­creasingly frequent use of the filibuster.” 
a filibuster refers to obstruc­tive tactics, usually by extend­ing debate, to prevent a measure from being brought to a vote. a senator may speak for as long as 

“The polls 
suggest that the 
Democrats will 
likely hold onto 
their majority, but 
will not reach the 
threshold of 61 
that would enable 
them to break a 
filibuster.” 
David Campbell 
political science 
he or she wishes on the floor, un­less a three-fifths majority of the senate — or 60 out of 100 sena­tors — votes to bring the debate to an end. 
“neither party is going to have anywhere close to 60, so even if the democrats maintain the majority, it’s going to be by one or two seats,” he said. “so the big question for the senate, i think, is ‘is it possible for either party to move the senate to do things and operate with any efficiency to se­riously consider major pieces of legislation, or is it gridlocked by … increasingly partisan use of the filibuster?’” 
political science professor david campbell also saw no end in sight to tension along party lines in the senate. he even pre­dicted more polarization among senators after their newly elected members take office. 
“Those republicans who re­place their retiring republican colleagues will likely be more conservative than their prede­cessors, giving us still another reason to suspect further grid­lock,” he said. 
campbell cited races in indiana, montana, arizona, nevada, missouri and north dakota as still “in play” in this election. no matter the win­ners, he doubted bipartisanship would enter the senate with the new congressmen. 
“The polls suggest that the democrats will likely hold onto their majority, but will not reach the threshold of 61 seats that would enable them to break a fil­ibuster,” he said. “in other words, we can expect partisan gridlock to continue.” 
Meghan Thomassen contrib­uted to this report. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Campaigns raise $2 billion 

Associated Press 

washingTon (ap) — The 2012 presidential campaign passed the $2 billion mark in fundraising Thursday, fueled by an outpouring of cash from both ordinary citizens and the wealthiest americans hoping to influence the selection of the country’s next leader. 
The eye-popping figure puts the election on track to be the costliest in modern u.s. his­tory. it comes amid a campaign finance system vastly altered by the proliferation of outside groups and “super” political committees that are bankroll­ing a barrage of Tv ads in bat­tleground states. 
president barack obama and republican challenger mitt romney have brought in about $1.7 billion so far this elec­tion, according to fundraising reports submitted Thursday night. 
added to that: nearly $300 million in donations involving super pacs since early 2011, as well as tens of millions more in donations to nonprofit groups that run election-related ads but don’t have to disclose their donors. 
obama, the democratic party and related fundrais­ing committees raised a com­bined $88.8 million for the first 15 days of october, reports showed, while romney’s fund­raising apparatus reaped $111.8 million during the same period. 
The largest of those were two pro-romney groups. american 
paid adverTisemenT 
crossroads, a republican-leaning super pac with ties to former president george 
w. bush’s longtime political counselor karl rove, reported raising at least $79.6 million through oct. 15. restore our Future, founded by former romney aides, reported pull­ing in $130.6 million so far. and priorities usa, a pro-obama group founded by two former aides to the president, reported $62.8 million in contributions. 
added to that: nearly $300 million in donations involving super pacs since early 2011, as well as tens of millions more in donations to nonprofit groups — often affiliated with super pacs — that run election-relat­ed ads but don’t have to disclose their donors. 




Decrease in corporate spending slows economy 
U. S. government prepares to issue lackluster third-quarter growth information Friday, last report before election 
Associated Press 
washingTon — companies are holding off on purchases of computers, industrial equipment and other long-lasting manufac­tured goods, a trend that’s slow­ing the u.s. economy. 
a fourth straight month of lackluster corporate spending led many economists on Thursday to trim their forecasts for growth in the July-september quarter. The government will issue its first es­timate of third-quarter growth Friday, the last snapshot of over­all economic activity before the presidential election. 
The troubling report on busi­ness confidence overshadowed a drop in applications for un­employment aid and a slight in­crease in the number of people who signed contracts to buy homes. 
orders for durable goods, products expected to last at least three years, rose 9.9 percent in september, the commerce department said. but most of the increase was driven by a spike in aircraft orders, which are volatile and plummeted in the previous month. 
economists pay closer attention to core capital goods, which include machinery and computers but exclude aircraft. Those orders were unchanged in september after only a slight gain in august and steep declines in July and June. 
and shipments of those goods fell for the third straight month. That means business spending on equipment and software likely declined 4.9 percent in the July­september quarter, economists noted. it would represent the first drop in that category since the recession. 
corporate investment helped the u.s. economy emerge from the great recession three years ago. but businesses have grown more cautious since spring, see­ing tepid growth in consumer spending and declines in exports. 
many companies are worried that their overseas sales could dampen further if recession spreads throughout europe, as some predict, and growth con­tinues to slow in china, india and other developing countries. 
businesses also fear large tax increases and big government spending cuts that will kick in next year if congress fails to reach a budget deal to avert them. 
The disappointing report on durable goods led several econo­mists to downgrade their fore­casts for third-quarter economic growth. michael Feroli, an econo­mist at Jpmorgan chase, lowered his forecast to an annual rate of 
1.6 percent, down from 1.8 per­cent. peter newland, an econo­mist at barclays capital, reduced his forecast to a rate of 1.8 percent from 2 percent. 
either figure would reflect little improvement from the april-June growth rate of only 1.3 percent. 
business investment has slumped even as consum­ers have become more hopeful about the economy in recent months. consumer confidence rose in october to a five-year high. retail spending increased in september, mainly because americans bought more cars, iphones and appliances. and home sales are up this year, con­tributing to a nascent housing recovery. 
consumer spending drives nearly 70 percent of economic activity. 
“we have the consumer to thank for keeping the economy above water,” Feroli said. 
still, the gains are far from 
paid adverTisemenT 
what is needed to ignite the economy and spur rapid hiring. economists at Jpmorgan chase project consumer spending could increase at an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the third quarter. That’s better than the 1.5 percent rate in the second quarter, but still anemic by historical standards. 
meanwhile, sluggish busi­ness investment has dragged on job creation at u.s. factories. manufacturers slashed 20,000 jobs in the third quarter. Factories had added 194,000 jobs in the previous three quarters. 
The job market has been a key topic in this year’s presidential election, which is less than two weeks away. a separate report Thursday suggested hiring re­mains modest, at best. 
weekly applications for unem­ployment benefits fell last week to a seasonally adjusted 369,000, stabilizing after two weeks in which seasonal factors distorted the data. The four-week average, a less volatile measure, rose to 368,000, the labor department said. 
applications are a proxy for layoffs. when they fall be­low 375,000, it suggests hiring is strong enough to lower the unemployment rate. 
applications have fluctuated between 360,000 and 390,000 since January. at the same time, employers have added an average of nearly 150,000 jobs a month. That’s barely enough to lower the unemployment rate, which has declined from 8.3 percent to 7.8 percent this year. 
a third report Thursday showed the housing recovery may be cooling off. The national assocation of realtors index of sales agreements showed the number of americans who signed contracts to buy homes rose only slightly in september from august. That suggests sales may level off in the coming months after solid gains in the past year. 
signed contracts are up 14.5 percent from a year ago. 
housing is rebounding after a six-year slump. new home sales jumped last month to the high­est annual pace in two and a half years. and builders broke ground on new homes and apartments at the fastest pace in more than four years in september. 
This year will likely be the first time in six years that housing contributes to overall economic growth. 



INSIDE COLUMN 

computer love-hate 

Anna Boarini 
news writer 

currently, i’m in the midst of a love-hate relationship. it’s not with a boyfriend or a best friend, but it is with someone important. my love-hate relationship is with my mac computer. 
i know a computer is not a person, but i spend more time with my computer than i do people sometimes, so it has become a person to me. my beloved macky and i have been all over the place together and are pretty much inseparable. 
anyways, as much as i love my mac, right now i just want to chuck it across the room. 
it all started one steamy day in nepal. over the summer, my computer decided it would just stop holding a charge, so i had to keep it plugged in all the time. That wasn’t really a huge deal. 
Then, my worst nightmare happened. The battery of my computer fell out. basically, my mac gave birth to a battery baby. one minute i was standing there taking my computer out of its case and the next minute, bang: battery on the floor. 
i just stared at the rectangular piece of plastic and steel. it was like my life flashed before me. all i could think about was all the information contained on my com­puter. did i lose my precious novel for­ever? what about the writing samples for graduate school, were they gone too? 
luckily, with some duct tape and a little elbow grease, the battery fit back in. The battery charged even slower, but my com­puter was working. 
all was going well at school until midterms came around. everything al­ways goes wrong when you least expect it. There i was at 3 a.m. the day before two exams and three papers were due. everything was going fine until i went to check some notes. i noticed the power was dangerously low. it was then i thought i might have a heart attack. my computer was plugged in. why was the battery icon red? had my mac finally died? 
after a long night of sheer panic, the pa­pers got written and the tests were taken. Then came the real challenge: getting an appointment at the genius bar. i ran in there looking like a crazy person, with my unwashed hair piled high up on my head and tears brimming behind the glasses slipping off my nose. The mac guy looked at me like i was a homeless person as i explained what happened. The prognosis was good; the power cord was the prob­lem, not the computer. 
but today, back to the genius bar i head. now my computer is rejecting all software downloads and desperately needs updating. hopefully, the kind people at the mac store will give me good news. keep your fingers crossed. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboarini@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Diversity on the ballot 
Brian Kaneb 
guest columnist 

The general election may be about two weeks away, but many who will not be in their districts at that time will already have voted by means of an absentee ballot. These early votes as a proportion of the total votes have increased from 20 percent in 2004 to 30 percent in 2008, and are expected to account for 35 percent in the up­coming election, according to dr. michael mcdonald of george madison university. For those familiar with the electoral college, that is the equivalent of an astounding 188 delegates having their votes set in stone before nov. 6. 
i became a part of this trend when i sent in my absentee ballot just a few days ago. This may have been my first time voting for president, but even i noticed a difference in the candidates this time around. white protestant males have long dominated politics in our country, with all but two presidents meeting these criteria. while it would be an overstatement to say their strong­hold has ceased to exist, the choices i faced this election reminded me the es­tablishment parties have at least come to terms with the increasing influence of previously powerless minorities. 
perhaps the most relatable race to prove this point is the one for the presidency. whereas president John kennedy faced prejudice simply for being a catholic in 1960, both vice president Joe biden and representative paul ryan speak as if they have been invited to be open about the same faith. The latter stands as being extremely vocal about his religion. in the wake of losing his wife and daughter in a tragic car accident, biden has come to terms with the fact his faith “defines who he is” and “has particularly informed [his] social doctrine.” in a similar way, ryan has aspired to have his work “conform to the social doctrine of as best [he] can make of it.” it is hard to imagine the candidates being so blunt just a few decades ago, but with minority babies outnumbering majority babies for the first time, the political campaigns know this will not have negative elec­toral consequences. 
This is not to say the two fall in line with their religion on every issue. not only does the catholic church disagree with biden on abortion, but the united states conference of catholic bishops has also criticized the budget put forth by ryan for failing to meet its “moral criteria.” gov. mitt romney may seem like the epitome of the establishment at times, but he is still a mormon. gallup found that 20 percent of americans would not vote for a mormon for the presidency, which is even more sur­prising considering this number is the same as in 1968. yet romney real­izes the relative importance of these votes decreasing. This was seen at the republican national convention when the campaign received positive atten­tion for inviting “several mormons” to “speak to romney’s religion and service to his faith.” of course barack obama is the first african-american president, but as the only protestant of the major candidates, even he is at odds with his predecessors in that he “was not raised in a religious household.” 
my local races reflect the changing times as well. both scott brown and John Tierney are white males run­ning for re-election in massachusetts, but their opponents would not have been welcomed in the past. elizabeth warren is known for creat­ing controversy by claiming native american heritage, but nonethe­less she would be the first woman to serve in the senate from my home state. still, it is richard Tisei who hit home on the point of diversity. on top of campaigning to become the only republican representative from massachusetts, he would also serve as the first openly gay congressman in his party. he is quick to point out “a lot of members have made it a point to come up to me and tell me that they’re very supportive of me because they believe that the party needs to be more diverse.” 
whether or not we have reached the end of the road is up for debate, but this election makes it clear the two parties have moved towards the ac­ceptance of minorities. 
Brian Kaneb is a junior studying political science. He can be reached at bkaneb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man’s character, give him power.” 
Abraham Lincoln 

United States president 



The private Joe Donnelly 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

rarely can the general public rou­tinely observe the personal, up-close behind-the-scenes character of an elected official like united states representative Joe donnelly (d-ind.). however, for nearly 30 years i have been privileged to coach a base­ball team of democratic members of congress who oppose their fel­low republicans in an annual char­ity game benefitting the literacy Foundation and the boys and girls clubs. in 2007, donnelly joined a long line of participants like president george h. w. bush, former democratic presidential candidate bill richardson and current constitutional party can­didate virgil goode. having coached donnelly throughout his entire six-year tenure in congress, i got to know the private Joe quite well. 
my firsthand observation of donnelly comes from our frequent 7 a.m. training sessions. donnelly is grounded, humble and genuine. he could have been called “Jd” with some flashy bravado, but that is not who he is at his core. his colleagues always call him “Joe” because donnelly is cut from the same humble yet digni­fied cloth as indiana senators richard lugar and evan bayh. he is a consen­sus builder rather than a bully against his opposition. countless times i heard him say to his fellow democrats at our early-morning baseball practices, “if i vote with the white house on that, i might as well not run for office. i have to stick with my people back home.” 
at first glance, donnelly is low-key, likeable and genuinely authentic — an “ordinary Joe” in every respect. so be­ing the jokester that i am, i ambushed him on his first day of practice with the team by asking, “why on earth would you wear a notre dame t-shirt here?” 
in a matter-of-fact way tinged with a touch of pride, he answered, “i gradu­ated from there, actually twice be­cause i went to law school there too.” 
since he had no idea i was a notre dame alumnus, i raised my voice while sarcastically replying, “oh, a so-called ‘double domer,’ huh?” 
without missing a beat or showing agitation, he continued, “i got a great education. wonderful people there. have you ever been on campus?” 
“Four, long, miserably gray and cold winters,” i answered with a huge smile as i approached for a hearty hand­shake and a short conversation about our campus experiences. 
later that week — and every week we practiced during his six years on the team — he asked me to advise him when 7:25 a.m. rolled around so he could call a radio station from a far rural border of his district. despite teasing from other members about donnelly skipping half of practice to further his budding disc jockey career, donnelly religiously crouched under a tree off the third base line each week to answer questions and offer opinions. 
one morning last year, he sat next to me in the dugout to change his spikes when his call-in ended. without my saying a word, donnelly offered, “you know, that radio station covers a small but unique area near the edge of my district that has little in common with most of my district. but i feel obligated to represent them as best i can and to explain why i vote certain ways that they may not understand or simply support.” 
he continued, “[my congressional colleagues] tease me about hiding under the tree for a radio interview, but i get more positive feedback and respect from my constituents in that area than anyone would realize. in fact, i pull more votes than state-wide democratic candidates in that area be­cause i’m straight with them, and they respect me for my efforts even when they may not support some of my votes in congress.” 
donnelly went on to lament about how republicans refused en-block to even engage across the aisle in the legislative process. his voice straining in disbelief, donnelly said he saw too many hoosiers struggling both physi­cally and financially. “we aren’t here to simply fight,” he concluded, “we need to start working together.” 
one morning i handed him a news story about purdue students who, inspired by comedian stephen colbert, created their own super pac. another representative sug­gested donnelly create a “hoosier daddy” pac. rather than jokingly banter back with a locker-room joke, donnelly blushed as he spoke, “oh no. That’s not right!” 
overall, the hardworking everyday nice guy he appears to be from afar is actually the man he is in person. This summer he spoke about his current senate run, noting no notre dame alumnus has ever been elected united states senator. he asked me, “wouldn’t that be great for the university to finally have a senator?” 
he spoke from pride for his univer­sity, not his own personal adulation. it conveyed an “ordinary Joe” humil­ity reminiscent of Jimmy stewart in the movie “mr. smith goes to washington.” 
having coached for decades within the confidences of congressional representatives, i can attest that donnelly has always been and will continue to be an “everyday Joe.” 
Gary Caruso, a 1973 graduate of Notre Dame, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

The climate we ask for 
Jennifer Gathright 
harvard crimson 

as americans, we constantly congratulate ourselves on our spirit of innovation. yet, we give our government no incentive to be forward thinking about important long-term problems like climate change. president barack obama and gov. mitt romney aren’t talking about the environment because we haven’t really asked them to do so. 
This contradiction isn’t our fault — democracy just doesn’t always reward anticipation. politicians are account­able to voters whose main concerns generally include how to feed their families and keep their jobs and houses. and it is this combination of preoccupied voters and cowardly law­makers that has kept the u.s. from tackling climate change in any sort of comprehensive way. 
it’s no surprise that a recent gallup poll showed 72 per­cent of americans thought the economy was today’s most important problem. a mere two percent saw pollution and the environment as the most important problem. yet, the two problems are undoubtedly connected. miT economist henry Jacoby predicts, “people will pay … [for inaction on climate change] in taxes, energy prices, insurance premi­ums, disaster relief, food prices, water bills and changes to our environment that are hard to put a price tag on.” 
we’re constantly flooded with startling facts about ris­ing ocean levels and shrinking rainforests. To those who pay attention, climate change is clearly imminent, and it’s approaching the brink of irreversibility. scientists predict a nearly complete lack of wild fish in oceans by 2050. at the beginning of his numerical rundown of the current state of the climate, activist and writer william e. mckibben grimly states, “i can say with some confidence that we’re losing the fight, badly and quickly — losing it because, most of all, we remain in denial about the peril that human civilization is 
in.” denial isn’t the only reason that the situation is stagnant 
— for those who are thinking short-term, there is a valid eco­nomic argument against cutting emissions. The fossil fuel sector certainly isn’t a small deal, and the world economy is invested in the future of drilling. construction of the south­ern part of keystone Xl is already underway. 
while economic hurdles block a smooth transition from fossil fuels to cleaner energy, the carbon tax represents a po­tent economic solution. The kennedy school’s Joseph aldy showed his support for the carbon tax in his talk at harvard Thinks green 2 last week. a tax on carbon would de-incen­tivize the purchase of carbon and naturally force investment in alternative energies. it would provide the economic impe­tus currently lacking from the green movement. 
even conservative economist and policy advisor greg mankiw expressed his support of a world carbon tax in a 2007 new york Times op-ed, but he doubted that a carbon tax would make it through washington. mankiw wrote, “republican consultants advise using the word ‘tax’ only if followed immediately by the word ‘cut.’ democratic consul­tants recommend the word ‘tax’ be followed by ‘on the rich.’” 
it would simply be political suicide for a republican to support a new tax of any kind, and democrats are too busy trying to get rid of tax breaks for the rich that suggesting a carbon tax right now might very well be too much. yet, logi­cal thinking would demand that our lawmakers push aside all of those political fears for the sake of doing something that makes pure and total sense. 
china’s communist party recently released its new five-year plan, a strategic move that will end up investing $315 billion in measures for energy efficiency. and because of the one-party system, china can afford to be aggressive in the way it pursues its alternative energy goals. The national energy commission has asked each province in china to provide a plan for increased solar energy use by oct. 15. 
china remains the world’s largest coal consumer, but these steps represent a significant effort to reduce emissions. The united states is the world’s largest consumer of oil, but politi­cal polarization and corporate influence would block any clean energy initiatives of a similar scale. 
so while china’s alternative energy plans charge forward, the u.s. is stuck with little to no political or economic push for sustainability. 
This problem is not unique to the u.s., and it’s why very little has been done in the way of large international agree­ments. recent climate discussions have all failed miserably 
— it’s as if every time someone mentions the words kyoto, cop10, or rio+20, the environmental community emits a collective sigh of frustration. 
our markets are so interdependent that changes in energy consumption have global effects, and therefore countries must tackle the issue through a combination of domestic policies and international cooperation. The u.s. could help shape the international debate on climate change, but it chooses not to because u.s. citizens have yet to demand the discussion. 
our government spends billions of dollars each year on defense. we stockpile more weapons than we will ever use. but the prospect of entire countries being submerged un­der water as a result of large scale flooding is in many ways equally as scary as a nuclear iran. and just like our founding fathers were worried about the political freedoms of every generation to come, should we not be intensely concerned about the safety and welfare of our future generations? and should we not demand from our representatives that same view? 
This column originally ran in the Oct. 24 edition of Harvard Crimson, serving Harvard University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By SAM STRYKER 
assistant managing editor 

magic. it’s what defined the harry potter series, both in the literal and figurative sense. There were the wands, the Quidditch, the dragons and the horcruxes — that’s all magic, to be sure. but what truly captivated the read­er’s mind was the literary magic author J.k. rowling conjured up — a richly-textured world, finely detailed environs and most importantly, meticulously devel­oped characters. 
sadly, rowling’s first post-“potter” effort, “The casual vacancy,” is, for lack of a better term, casually vacant of any magic. The characters may be well thought out, and the tiny fictional english village of pagford that the nov­el takes place in may seem like a terrifyingly real place, but something is missing — literary magic. 
a post-“potter” hangover of sorts may have been ex­pected from rowling — after all, her series of books is the best-selling of all time, having sold more than 450 million copies worldwide. but at the same time, rowling is one of the most talented authors of her generation, having enchanted readers of all ages with her hogwarts tales. why should she not have succeeded with her first foray into adult novels? 
unfortunately, “The casual vacancy” tries too hard to be just that — an adult novel. The premise of the story sounds interesting. a town councilor dies of a brain an­eurysm, and the ensuing election for his replacement brings to a roiling boil what had previously been sim­mering class warfare in pagford. along the way, rowling tosses in every calamity and societal malady available 
— drug use, suicide, rape, infidelity — like a sickening shopping list of the warts of humanity. 
it isn’t bad to show the underbelly of society — “harry potter” dealt with some pretty mature themes — but the nonstop barrage lacks focus, as if rowling was looking to check off a list, hitting every one of mankind’s woes with no real thought to how they contributed to the overall plot. 

part of the magic is lost in “The casual vacancy” when rowling not only loses focus in trying to portray the dregs of small-town english society, but also when she does not provide a central character that draws in the reader. imagine if “harry potter” only had an ensemble of seamus Finnigan, dolores umbridge, ollivander and no harry, ron or hermione. no one, not even the die-hard “potter” fans, would ever enjoy such a tale. i found myself spending more time than i should trying to iron down in my mind all of the characters in “The casual vacancy” when i should have been enjoying the book. 
compounding this issue is the fact that the reader simply does not care for the characters in the novel. 
every single character has a signature fault, whether it is pomposity, promiscuity or addiction. characters certainly should never have to be painted as good or bad in black and white terms. one cannot deny the he­roes in “harry potter” were flawed — harry was proud, hermione was a know-it-all and ron was, well, ron — but these flaws were balanced by positive traits. on the other hand, by the time i was able to sort the multitude of characters in “The casual vacancy” apart, i was only able to distinguish them by their unpleasant traits, not their names. it is hard to fully enjoy a book when every single one of the characters is so unabashedly dreadful. 
i had high hopes for “The casual vacancy.” i was ex­pecting a black comedy of epic proportions, an exposé of small-town british life. instead, i received 503 pages of misery. it may be harsh in comparing the book to “harry potter” when rowling should in no way have to match the magic she conjured in the series. after all, i wouldn’t want to have to live up to say, my illustrious performance in my high school european history class. 
but as an avid “potter” fan, someone who rereads the seven books every summer and dressed up for multiple midnight movie premieres, i cannot help but be more than a little disappointed with rowling’s effort in “The casual vacancy.” in a way, i am not so much upset with the book itself as i am with rowling. if any other author churned this book out, i would say the characters are dreary, but nevertheless the pages kept turning. 
but seeing the name “J.k. rowling” on the cover comes with astronomical expectations. i wasn’t ex­pecting magic in the literal sense, but was looking to be charmed by rowling’s pen. unfortunately, there was no literary magic within the pages of “The casual vacancy.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

album updates it with an opening introduction from notre dame with a slow, introspective and peaceful 
By KEVIN NOONAN 

university president emeritus Fr. Ted hesburgh that, tune. 
as most things Fr. hesburgh says, carries a gravity that “with all your heart believe” by 1994 graduateTim 
a distinct and unique musical spirit has long been will give listeners the chills. o’neill, is another touching and emotional song that a part of the irish people and their culture, and cer- “here come the irish” and another song on the evokes the seriousness and sentimentality of notre tainly music has been central to notre dame’s own dame. “Too rah loo rah loo rah” is sung by one of tradition, with its “greatest fight song in all the land” 
scene editor 

notre dame’s most famous alumnus, regis philbin, a and the oldest collegiate marching band in the united 
1953 graduate. states. 
The album, which features a total of 33 songs from This idea was reflected in notre dame’s recent $2 
a number of alumni from many different generations, billion “The spirit of notre dame campaign” with the 
was a project spearheaded and produced by Tim and production and release of a two-part album aimed at 
ryan o’neill, 1994 and 1997 graduates, respectively. capturing the musical identity of the Fighting irish 
“it’s basically the biggest music compilation project called “The spirit of notre dame.” 
in notre dame history,” Tim o’neill said. “i’m thank-The album features two different discs, the first of 
ful that notre dame asked my brother and me to pro-which is an upbeat, tailgating-minded collection enti­
duce the project.” tled “celebration.” This first part is mostly a fun, fast-
The two brothers are a highly successful musical paced collection of celtic and notre dame-themed 
team, having sold more than two million cds so far in songs. 
their career, with horizons broadening beyond their John Tabis, a 2000 graduate, and ken o’malley cre­
alma mater. but Tim o’neill said their true passion is ate the jig-inspiring melody “irish in the yard” by alter-for notre dame. ing the lyrics of the commonly known tune, “whiskey “what we really love are these notre dame songs, in the Jar” to suit this year’s irish football team. and we just really love to get the word out about some 
“what are you Fighting For?” by emily lord, a 1996 album, “warrior” by 2007 alumnus Jeffery stephens of these talented alumni,” he said. “it’s a notre dame graduate, is a moving and uplifting ballad of finding and 2005 alumnus lawrence santiago was featured family project that’s going to sell a lot of music, but purpose, and “wearin’ of the green” by the notre on the Jumbotron during notre dame’s football game more importantly connect a people back with notre dame bagpipe band is a rousing bagpipe and percus-against miami at soldier Field on oct. 6. dame and get them emotional about the place and sion ballad. The second disc, “reflections,” is a more contem-hopefully the donate their time or money.” 
“here come the irish” by John scully, a 1980 gradu-plative look into the notre dame spirit. “notre dame’s ate, and Jim Tullio is a song that will be familiar to any-prayer to a guardian angel” by roberta lee halladay, Contact Kevin Noonan one who’s been to a notre dame football game, but the a 1974 graduate, combines the religious tradition of at knoonan2@nd.edu 

SARA SHOEMAKE | Observer Graphic 



SARA SHOEMAKE | Observer Graphic 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

‘FIFA’ brings soccer popularity 

Andrew Gastelum 
associate sports writer 
a month ago yesterday, the future of soccer in america virtu­ally became a reality. “FiFa 13” sold more than 350,000 copies on its north american release date last month. 
and who says americans don’t like soccer? 
what started as yet another re­minder of ea sports’ dominance in the sports gaming industry has turned into a cultural phenom­enon, becoming the video game of choice in college dorms across the country. 
in a country where it sits far be­hind just about every other sport, soccer — the real football — is the second most popular sport among 18 to 24 year-old americans, ac­cording to the most recent espn sports poll. That’s us folks, and what we have done by simply pur­chasing a copy of the nectar of the gaming gods or taking your friend up on a FiFa challenge is start a revolution that will surely affect the future of the sport. 
The FiFa franchise holds an in­terestingly unique position in the vast american gaming culture. it’s just not like the “madden,” “ncaa,” “nhl” or “nba live” franchises. rather than further promote a league as an exten­sion of the sport’s success like other sports video games, “FiFa” is where it all starts.  if you are a college football fan, chances are you’ll purchase “ncaa Football 13.” but with “FiFa,” it’s the exact opposite effect. 
“FiFa” makes soccer fans, not the other way around. 
manchester city fans in the 
u.s. make the despicable choice of becoming city fans in real life because they handle their room­mate’s business on a consistent basis with said squad before class in the morning. barcelona fans in the u.s. make the annoying run-of-the-mill choice of being barca fans in real life because a team full of all-stars will flatten any five-star team on the ps3. and brazil fans, well there are none in the u.s. because no one likes to be that guy who picked brazil in “FiFa.” 
with each new addition of “FiFa,” soccer in america be­comes that much more popular among casual sports fans, which in turn raises awareness of the sport and its global superstars. stars like lionel messi, cristiano ronaldo, wayne rooney and landon donovan are becom­ing household names not just for their accomplishments across the pond, but because of their accom­plishments in your living room with your fingertips at the helm. 
whether it’s cursing at the screen for real madrid’s karim benzema to actually put away a goal for once in his lifetime — even though you are the one controlling him — or running the hallways following a tiebreaking goal in the 90th minute, it’s an enormous step closer to fruition for the sport and soccer fans in the united states. 

and regardless of what critics of the sport may say, that’s what soc­cer in america needs: fans. The national team talent is there and continues to captivate us, the mls improves steadily every year and the youth system is considered one of the best in the world. but the fans are last to come, and the “FiFa” franchise has surprisingly acted as the quintessential am­bassador for the perfect age group. 
The sport craves more american fans for soccer, both do­mestically and internationally. if you think it is impossible to build a soccer fan base in america, take a peek at seattle sounders and portland Timbers fan videos. it’s entirely possible, and who would’ve thought a video game would be the agent of cause? 
of course, the “FiFa” franchise gets by with a little help from its friends. advertising this season’s installment of the game is colts quarterback andrew luck, new york giants receiver victor cruz, up-and-coming rap superstar a$ap rocky — whose highly an­ticipated debut album drops on halloween — and a true soccer aficionado in snoop dogg (not snoop lion). 

They join “FiFa 12” alumni in san Francisco giants pitcher Tim lincecum, lakers point guard steve nash and los angeles galaxy forward landon donovan. snoop even made an appearance on the espn campus to promote “FiFa 13” on “sportscenter” and “sportsnation,” among others, all while sporting a customized spain national team jersey. 
if americans see their favorite athletes and rappers playing “FiFa,” they would want to also, right? seems fair enough, but the real advertisement has come free­of-charge straight from our dorm rooms. 
whether you see the connec­tion or not, we could be an es­sential part of the boom of soccer in america simply by choosing to rip some poor soul to shreds with psg and procrastinating our homework for another hour (i like to justify this by setting the announcers to spanish, that way i’m learning something and i feel better about my life choices). 
so if you would like to take part in the revolution before it becomes the new fad, my email is below. click the send button at your own peril. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF | The landFall TradiTion 
Irish look to finish strong 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
coming off a second-place fin­ish at the susan maxwell berning classic, the no. 19 irish conclude their fall season at The landfall Tradition in wilmington, n.c., against a field stacked with ranked opponents. 
“we had our best finish of the fall at [the susan maxwell berning classic],” irish coach susan holt said. “we had input from every­body, shooting some good scores and our confidence is high. we are ready for [The landfall Tradition].” 
There are six teams ranked ahead of notre dame, who will compete this weekend  at The landfall Tradition — no. 4 arizona, no. 8 duke, no. 11 north carolina state, no. 12 michigan state, no. 14 purdue and no. 17 oklahoma state. right on the heels of notre dame is no. 20 northwestern and no. 24 Texas Tech. 
“This will be our hardest competition yet,” holt said. “This tournament gives us the opportunity to improve our rankings and pick up some quality head-to-head wins. we will finish off our fall season strong.” 
Freshman lindsey weaver fin­ished tied for second at the susan maxwell berning classic with a five-under 67 and is currently the no. 4 ranked player in the country. she has a tournament average of 70.13. 
“lindsey is the best recruit that has ever come into our program as a freshman,” holt said. “she has a great tournament record. she has done a good job adjusting from high school to college play. To come in as a fresh­man and perform the way she has, she is capable of having a great colle­giate career.” 
The unique nicklaus golf course where the tournament will be played is spread over three nine-hole cours­es. it is familiar to many of the com­petitors, holt said. 
“it’s a great golf course, very chal­lenging” holt said. “we are going to have to hit some quality shots, especially off the tee, in order for us to compete here. our game is set up well for this course. we hit it well and we hit it long. we should be able to get the ball in the hole sooner and put up some good scores.” 
after a grueling fall season in prep­aration for the spring season, notre dame’s lineup is prepared for the loaded field, holt said. all five of the irish have shot at least one round un­der par this season. 
“i think we have all done pretty well in the fall,” holt said. “we have had a challenging fall and have navigated through it extremely well, even when we had to play with four players at northwestern when [sophomore] ashley [armstrong] was hurt. 
“it took a lot of depth to do that. we are holding our own. we are on the right track to position ourselves in a great spot for the spring season.” 
The irish compete in wilmington, 
n. c., starting today, to close out their fall season in preparation for their spring campaign. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

squad travels to auburn 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
irish coach brian barnes will revisit his former program as the irish travel to alabama to take on the auburn Tigers in a Friday af­ternoon dual meet. 
barnes, who helped coach both auburn’s men’s and women’s teams to back-to-back national ti­tles in 2006 and 2007, said that his close ties with the auburn coach­ing staff will make the visit more enjoyable and instructive. 
“it’s friendly, that’s what’s nice about this meet,” barnes said. “we’re going down and we’re go­ing to compete against a team that’s well-coached, and we have a relationship with the coaching staff that’s a giving relationship, so one way or the other, we’re both going to learn something, both programs.” 
auburn beat notre dame 167­125 at the rolfs aquatics center last season, and barnes said the Tigers, who finished seventh in last year’s ncaa championships and have won five national champi­onships in the past decade, will pro­vide a good challenge for the irish this time around. 
“They’re very reputable. They’re one of the more storied programs in division-i ncaa history,” barnes said. “[They’re] a very good program. we’re facing very good competition this weekend.” 
That competition includes senior breaststroker micah lawrence, who took a redshirt season in 2011-2012 to train for the u.s. olympics team. she qualified for the london games in the 200-meter breaststroke, even­tually finishing sixth in the finals. she has not lost a breaststroke race so far this fall. Tigers senior multi­eventer katie gardocki is undefeated in the 500-meter, 1,000-meter and 1,650-meter freestyle events. 
The irish might not have an olympian on their squad, but they do have senior backstroke and freestyle specialist kim holden. barnes said holden has stood out over the past few weeks at the dennis stark relays and in practice. 
“kim holden’s been very consistent, very strong, very confi­dent and just hard working,” barnes said. 

barnes said that he hopes to see that confidence and consistency from all his swimmers Friday. 

“i’d like to see improvement from the dennis stark relays two weeks ago,” barnes said. “as a coach, you always want to see improvement from meet to meet, and i want to see us compete and experience a ranked team and stand with poise and con­fidence and have a great attitude and compete.” 
The irish will also be sending three divers to alabama to compete, including senior Jenny chiang and sophomoreallisoncasareto. 
“i do have new dives for them,” irish diving coach caiming Xie said. “auburn is a good team, so it will be a tough meet for the beginning of the season.” 
The irish will dive into action at the James e. martin aquatics center at Friday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR RENT 

Rent Knute Rockne’s home for football weekends. Perfect location 
- 1 block from Eddy St. Commons. Sleeps 8-10. Contact 574-876-4324 
WANTED 

PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt earnparttime.com 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or as­sistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancy­support@nd.edu 
Henry James once defined life as that predicament which precedes death, and certainly nobody owes you a debt of honor or gratitude for getting him into that predicament. But a child does owe his father a debt, if Dad, having gotten him into this peck of trouble, takes off his coat and buckles down to the job of showing his son how best to crash through it.  ~Clarence Budington Kelland 



CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish enter Big East Championships in New York 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
The irish begin the champion­ship season Friday as both the men’s and women’s squads travel to new york with hopes of taking home a big east title. 
The conference championship will be run at van cortlandt park in the bronx, a well-known park that serves as the home course for many new york college teams. 
“it’s one of the more tradition­al courses. They’ve been run­ning cross country there for 100 years,” irish women’s coach Tim connelly said. “so they’ve run thousands and thousands of col­lege races and high school races there.” 
connelly said that the trails through van cortlandt park will take some getting used to for notre dame runners who are more used to racing on grass. The women’s team will be running a 6-kilometer course, while the men’s race is 8-kilometers. 
“There [are] a lot of hills. The first 2,000 meters is pretty flat, and then the rest of the course is kind of up and down,” connelly said. “it’s more trails than grass, but the trails are kind of a crushed limestone, so it’s pretty good foot­ing. it’s a tough course; it’s a lot different from what we run on out here. out here most of the courses are golf courses, so they’re pretty much all grass.” 
and if the hills aren’t challeng­ing enough, notre dame’s big east opponents will be sure to give the irish a run for their money. The women’s squad is currently ranked 19th nationally, but there are four other women’s teams from the conference ranked in the top 30. 
“i think there are six really good teams in the big east,” connelly said. “[no. 9] georgetown is the defending ncaa champion, [no. 22] villanova is the defend­ing big east champion, [no. 10] providence is ranked in the top-10 in the country, connecticut is re­ally good, syracuse is really good, so it’s going to be a really, really competitive meet. 
“our goal, obviously, is to go in there and run really well and take our shot at trying to win, but if we don’t, oh well, we could be sixth. it’s that competitive. The big east is definitely one of the better conferences and women’s cross country is one of the big east’s better sports, so it’s definitely competitive.” 
The men’s team is in a similar position. although the irish fell out of the top-30 when the last rankings were released, they will also have to contend with ranked villanova and georgetown squads, although they did fin­ish ahead of providence at the 

paid adverTisemenT 


wisconsin adidas invitational two weeks ago. 
both the men’s and women’s teams brought nine runners to new york. seniors J.p. malette, Jeff macmillan, Jeremy rae and Johnathan shawel, juniors martin grady, patrick lesiewicz, walter schafer and dJ Thornton, and sophomore Jake kildoo made the trip for the men’s team, while se­niors rebecca Tracy and Jessica rydberg, juniors alexa aragon, kelly curran and meg ryan, sophomores hannah eckstein and gabby gonzales, and fresh­men danielle aragon and molly seidel will represent the women’s team. 
although connelly has two freshmen in his lineup, he said he is not concerned about how they will handle the pressure of running for a conference championship. 
“To be honest i think a race like this, especially for the younger runners, is probably more of what they’re used to than a race like we ran two weeks ago at wisconsin,” connelly said. “Two weeks ago, there were 48 teams in the field, so they’d never experienced any­thing like this. 
“and here there will be 15 teams, so you have a pretty good idea of who you’re racing against and which teams you’re trying to beat, while there you’re just going out and running and you’re not really sure where you’re at.” 
connelly said that he would like to see the best race of the sea­son from each of his runners on Friday, and then have them top that performance at regionals and nationals in the next few weeks. 
“we’re getting close [to our peak],” connelly said. “we just started to add some real intense work like track work and faster stuff. This is kind of our first step in our goals for the season. we’re taking nine athletes and all nine of them are healthy and really fit, so i would hope they’re ready to run their best race of the year, and obviously that’s what it’s go­ing to take for us to be competitive there.” 
The race for the big east men’s and women’s titles will take place in van cortlandt park in the bronx on Friday. The women’s race goes off at 11 a.m., and the men follow at 11:50 a.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Big East foes to test Irish win streak 
By JOE WIRTH 
sports writer 
notre dame will put its six-game winning streak on the line this weekend as it hosts pittsburgh and south Florida in big east action. 
This streak has vaulted the irish (15-6, 8-1 big east) into a tie for second place in the big east with marquette (18-4, 8-1), just a half-game behind conference leader louisville (20-3, 9-1). 
irish coach debbie brown said the team’s good play has been a byproduct of working together and putting together quality team efforts. 
“i have been very pleased with our play,” brown said. “it is not like there has been one girl carrying the team — it has been a collective effort from all of the players.” 
The irish have lost only one set during this stretch, and brown said the team’s improved defense has been the main reason for their recent success. 
“it has been a team effort all the way around and we have been able to get a lot of girls involved,” brown said. “The key has been our steady defense and our ability to transition and turn that good de­fense into scoring opportunities.” 
both pittsburgh (13-11, 4-6) and usF (13-10, 5-5) have strong offenses and will test the irish de­fensively. The panthers boast two of the best kill specialists in the big east in sophomore Jessica wynn and senior alexa campbell. wynn leads the team with a total of 181 kills with a 2.55 kills-per-set ratio and campbell is second on the team with 173 kills. 
“pitt really packs the middle on offense,” brown said. “They are one of the better offensive teams in the conference. They have a lot of hitters with live arms and just have a lot of offensive firepower.” 
The bulls are coming off a win against st. John’s on sunday and also will provide a stern test for the irish. The bulls have a bal­anced offense, but they beat the red storm with their defense, limiting st. John’s to a .190 hitting percentage. 
The bulls are led by one of the best freshman in the big east in erin Fairs. she is second on the bulls with 224 kills and leads the team with a 2.70 kills-per-set ratio. 
The irish will take on pittsburgh at 7 p.m. Friday at the Joyce center Field house. notre dame will then wrap up weekend play with its game against south Florida at 2 p.m. sunday at the purcell pavilion. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 

SMC SOCCER | hope 2, smc 0 
belles fall after weather delay 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
after a weather delay of more than 90 minutes, the belles suffered a 2-0 loss to hope on Thursday night in a pivotal confer­ence contest. 
The Flying dutch (12-4-2, 9-3-2 miaa) found the back of the net twice in a span of less than two minutes in the first half. senior midfielder Tricia bajema scored unassisted at the 34:12 mark and junior forward raisa yewah head­ed another goal 100 seconds later. 
“we’re definitely upset about this,” belles sophomore goalie chanler rosenbaum said. “it’s al­ways fun winning and this was a big game for us and we knew we could have won so it’s definitely disappointing.” 
Ten minutes into the second half, the game was suspended due to lightning. when play eventu­ally resumed, the belles could not mount a comeback. 
“[The delay was] definitely [tough],” rosenbaum said. “we would have rather played it out in full ... we came out with the same intensity after the delay and we knew what we had to do but it didn’t go in our favor.” 
The belles (11-5-2, 8-5-1) entered the game one point behind a trio of teams tied for the fourth and final playoff spot in the conference. with the loss, saint mary’s fell to sixth place. The belles, however, are just three points behind fourth-place adrian with two games remaining. 
saint mary’s will look to get a vital conference victory when it squares off with Trine on saturday. The Thunder (1-14-3, 0-12-2) are riding a 17-game winless streak, but rosenbaum said the belles will not look past any team. 
“records, standings, statistics don’t matter when you go into the game,” rosenbaum said. “we can’t go in thinking of those things ... They might not have the best re­cord but you never know what can happen.” 
saint mary’s defeated Trine 4-0 on oct. 3. The belles outshot the Thunder 16-4, including an 8-3 advantage on goal. The belles also took a season-high nine corner kicks in the romp. 
saint mary’s and Trine square off saturday at noon in angola, ind. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
FENCING 

buckeyes to challenge squad 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 

after winning multiple na­tional titles in recent years the irish now have a championship-caliber facility in which to train and compete. 
notre dame will show off it’s new home — the castellan Family Fencing center — on saturday during the notre dame elite invitational against ohio state. 
Facing the defending nation-al-champion buckeyes, the irish will square off against some of the best fencers in the nation to begin their fall season. 
“we received the challenge from ohio state, who is the cur­rent ncaa national champion,” irish coach Janusz bednarski said. “we won a gold medal two years ago so champions will face off against each other at the beginning of the season.” 
The irish will compete in their new facilities for the very first time this weekend, as the castellan Family Fencing center was dedicated last saturday. a gift from patrick and concetta castellan, whose sons matthew and christopher both fenced at notre dame, the center includes a team room and a conference room, new offices, locker rooms and an armory. 
“The new facility is a great place to organize matches because it is a bigger space and in addition, we have a full-size equipment room,” bednarski said. “our kids also have com­fort in a team room and places like new locker rooms ... it’s a great place to be.” 
The tournament this week­end will consist of men’s and women’s team matches, in ad­dition to men’s and women’s individual tournaments. while the team matches will be strictly between notre dame and ohio state, the individual tourna­ment includes fencers from all over the midwest. 
“[The individual competition is] a small tournament which is open to midwest fencers, plus, of course, ohio state fencers, who are very strong,” bednarski said. “altogether, about 75 fenc­ers will be competing on the day so it will be interesting.” 
of all the notre dame fenc­ers, bednarski believes the re­turning olympians — junior courtney hurley, senior gerek meinhardt and freshman lee kiefer — will perform the best this saturday. along with a many other notre dame fenc­ers, these three competitors also competed in the north american cup in st. louis last weekend. 
“i believe that our olympians who return will be a strong part of our team,” bednarski said. “The olympics games ended in 
paid adverTisemenT 
the late august and september did not include much fencing [for them]. so i understand that they are without form, but they are so good that even without special preparation, they should be a strong part of our team.” 
because ohio state con­firmed it would compete in the notre dame invitational only one week ago, notre dame had little time to prepare and adver­tise this event. despite the ab­breviated preparation period, bednarski hopes a large contin­gent of fans will come out to see the high-level of competition and new facility. 
“i would like to have a full audience,” bednarski said. “it’s open, free and before the [notre dame vs.] oklahoma [football] game, which starts at 8 p.m. so i believe that we will have a cou­ple of hundred people.” 
The all-day event in the castellan Family Fencing center will begin at 8 a.m. with men’s individual tournament, followed by the notre dame men’s team match against ohio state at 12:30 p.m. The invita­tional will then transition to the women’s individual tourna­ment at 1:45 p.m., before it ends with the irish women’s team match versus the buckeyes at 
5:30p.m. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 




Toner 
conTinued From page 16 
game,” Toner said. 
Though the game does not have playoff implications, scheper said the ducks are treating this game as if it were their first. 
“i don’t really know much about breen-phillips, but we definitely won’t take them lightly,” scheper said. 
The ducks and babes will look to shake off their losing records this year and focus on getting a win when the two teams meet sunday at 6 
p.m. at labar Fields. 
Contact Kyle Foley at kfoley2@nd.edu 
Badin vs. Cavanaugh 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
sports writer 
badin and cavanaugh will go head-to-head to compete for one last regular season win when the two teams meet sunday. 
badin (2-3) senior cap­tain Tommasina domel said she plans to utilize her team’s strong defensive line in its game plan against cavanaugh (4-1). domel said she is confident the bullfrogs’ defense has the skills necessary to pull off the team’s third win of the season. 
“our defense is consis­tently strong, and we will continue to rely on them,” domel said. “we are a de­fense-centered team.” 


still, domel said she is confident the offense, led by fifth-year senior carli Fernandez at quarterback, can contribute strongly this sunday. 
“we have been practicing and working on our offense in preparation for our game, and will continue to do so going forward into playoff season,” domel said. 
chaos  senior  captain  
rosemary  kelly  said  she  
hopes  to  maintain  focus  

during practice and work to keep the players upbeat and enthusiastic as the team takes its final step toward the playoffs. success for cavanaugh begins up front, she said. 
“our defensive lines have been consistently depend­able and explosive this sea­son,” kelly said. 
kelly said senior kelly brakora and sophomore caroline gerstle have been forces  on cavanaugh’s of­fensive line. additionally, kelly said she has been im­pressed by the efforts of junior Julie cleveland and senior christina buchanan on the defensive side.. 
“i’m intimidated by them during every practice,” kelly said. 
kelly not only credits the hard work of her team, but also the efforts of dedicated coaches who have helped the team garner its impres­sive record this season. 
“To secure a champion­ship, you have to make it there,” she said. “now is the time to win it all.” 
The bullfrogs and the chaos will close out the regular season sunday at 5 
p.m. at labar Fields. 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

Keough win. 
“we’re just looking to play 
conTinued From page 17 

the best game we have so far,” 
highlander sophomore cen­14-8 on oct. 7 with an intercep-ter alan keck said. “in previ­tion on the final drive to seal the ous games we’ve made some game. mistakes, but we’re hoping to 
Junior quarterback michael move forward.” Fischer leads the offense while keck said the highlanders, freshman defensive back mitch who last played sept. 23, are patin, who had the game-not fazed by their time off but clinching interception last are well rested and focused on game, steadies the defense. the task at hand. 
keough sophomore cap-offensively, keck said soph­tain charlie magiera said the omore quarterbacks matt kangaroos were restricted by garcia and pete mcginley the weather against the mob, have anchored the team in 
“We’re just looking to play the best game 
we have so far. ... In previous games we’ve 
made some mistakes, but we’re hoping to 
move forward.” 
Alan Keck Duncan sophomore center 
and he expects a better perfor­mance sunday. 
“The weather was definitely against us last game,” magiera said. “we couldn’t open up with the pass, and we need to be more effective on the run against a great team.” 
keough faces keenan on sunday at 3:30 p.m. at riehle Fields in a marquee matchup. 
Contact Rich Hidy at rhidy@nd.edu 
Duncan vs. Knott 
By ALEX STEMBAUGH 
sports writer 
duncan and knott are set to square off sunday in their final regular season game and their first action after a long layoff. 
The Juggerknotts (2-1) are looking for a final win to put them in position for a share of the division title and a post­season berth. 
duncan (0-3), however, is hoping to end the season on a high note by earning its first sharing snaps under center, but utilizing the speed of their running backs and receivers will provide the key to victory. 

on the other side of the ball, knott knows the stakes are high and is looking to come out strong. senior cap­tain Joe beglane said the Juggerknotts hope the success of their last game, a 10-0 win over morrissey, carries over to sunday. 
“we played good defense and didn’t give up any points [against the manor],” beglane said. 
beglane said he hopes to pick up more passing yards sunday, but he also feels con­fident in the running abil­ity of freshman fullback casey 
mccaffrey,  who  had  over  
100 yards  rushing  against  
morrissey.  

duncan and knott kick off at 2:15 p.m. sunday at riehle Fields. 
Contact Alex Stembaugh at astembau@nd.edu 


Sorin vs. St. Edward’s 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 

with the regular season winding down, sorin and st. edward’s will square off in the regular season finale sunday. 
The otters (3-0) come into the game undefeated and looking like the best team in the gold division after a convincing 20-7 victory sept. 30 against carroll. The gentlemen (1-2), mean­while, are coming off a solid vic­tory of their own, a 7-0 shutout against the zahmbies on oct. 7. 
sunday’s matchup has play­off implications for both sides. For the gentlemen, a win would give them a shot at a wild card berth. st. edward’s, however, will have to go up against a vaunted otter defense. 
“we’ve only scored one touch­down and they’ve only given up one,” st. edward’s junior quarterback and captain paul rodriguez said. “so we’ve got to get off to a fast start offen­sively or we won’t be making the playoffs.” 
sorin has already clinched a playoff berth, but freshman running back John pearl made it clear that the team was not content. 
“we don’t just want to be in the playoffs, we want to be in the best position possible, and this game will offer us a chance to do just that,” pearl said. “as long as our defense plays the way it has, i don’t see a reason why we can’t win the division.” 
The otters, however, will be playing without one of their best players, senior quarter­back Ted spinelli, who left the carroll game with a concussion. sorin will count on senior run­ning back chris champlin, who scored two touchdowns against the vermin, to carry the offense in spinelli’s stead. 
The otters and gentlemen face off at 2:15 p.m. sunday at riehle Fields. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMENS INTERHALL 

Wildcats face Pyros in regular season finale 
Pangborn takes on Lewis, Farley looks for win against McGlinn, Howard and Breen Phillips face off 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
ryan will put its playoff hopes on the line when it faces pasquerilla east on sunday. 
The wildcats (3-2) hope the momentum from their last game, a 20-6 victory over the chicks on oct. 7, carries over into their matchup against the pyros (1-3-1). 
“we are looking to use this game to prepare for the playoffs and ensure our playoff position,” ryan senior captain and quar­terback maya pillai said. 
The wildcats have seen steady progression on defense through­out the season, as they have consistently shut down their opponents. 
ryan’s offensive strategy has developed alongside its defen­sive strategy, which has created a balanced team dynamic and improved execution all-around, pillai said. 
“our team has a well-balanced attack on running and passing, and we want to limit big yardage gains,” pillai said. 
Though they are not playoff eligible, the pyros continue to practice hard and will be ready to play sunday, senior captain and cornerback anna perino said. 
“we have been working on stepping up our defense and stringing together effective plays to score touchdowns,” perino said. 
The pyros have seen improve­ment on both sides of the ball this season. The pasquerilla east offense and defense combined to secure the team’s first victory, a 22-7 win over Farley on oct. 7. 
“we had a rocky start,” perino said. “we have definite­ly solidified as the season has progressed.” 
The wildcats and pyros will battle sunday at 4 p.m. at labar Fields . 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla West vs. Lyons 
By D.H. KIM 
sports writer  
pasquerilla west will look to finish the regular season unde­feated when it faces lyons on sunday. 
The purple weasels (5-0) have found success by keeping a solid balance on both sides of the ball.  pasquerilla west has also received strong contribu­tions from senior captain and defensive end meghan schmitt and senior wide receiver kirsten danna. sophomore quarter­back lauren vidal, a first-year starter, has been a key element to pasquerilla west’s victories over several formidable teams, including cavanaugh and mcglinn, schmitt said. 
“[vidal] has obviously done a lot, but we don’t want to be too excited,” she said. “we want to keep our head in the remain­ing game against lyons and the playoffs.” 
lyons (1-4) has struggled dur­ing the season, as the team is currently in the midst of a three-game losing streak. The lyonites were shut out in their most re­cent game, a 13-0 loss to walsh, on oct. 8. Junior captain and cornerback christina bramanti, a key contributor to the lyonites’ defense, said the team is still in rebuilding mode and has many young players. 
“we just need to be more unit­ed as a team, and that’s been hard with so many new faces on the team,” bramanti said. 
The purple weasels will look to head into the playoffs unde­feated, while lyons will look to play the role of spoiler when the two teams meet sunday at 6 p.m. at labar Fields. 
Contact D.H. Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 
Pangborn vs. Lewis 

By SAMANTHA ZUBA  By LESLEY STEVENSON  
sports writer  sports writer  
pangborn and lewis will look  in its last chance for a victory  
to punctuate their respective  this season Farley will look to  
seasons with a win when they  top a playoff-bound mcglinn  
meet sunday in the last regular  squad when the two teams meet  
season game for both sides.  sunday.  
For the phoxes (4-1) the game  both teams head into the  
is a final tune-up before the play­ matchup with their respective  
offs. pangborn has not played  postseason futures secured. The  
since oct. 1, but senior captain  Finest (0-4) know this is their last  
colleen bailey said the phoxes  game of the season, while the  
have stayed focused on their  shamrocks (4-1) clinched a play- 
ultimate objective of playing  off spot with a 14-6 victory over  
for the championship in notre  welsh Family on oct. 7.  
dame stadium.  nevertheless, Farley senior  
“coming off a break is hard,”  captain Jonelle shudick ex- 
bailey said. “The end goal is  pressed pride for the young  
playing in the stadium, so we’re  Farley group, which includes  
going to use that to keep people  only three seniors.  
focused and motivated.”  “most of the time, we out- 
although the phoxes have al­ play the other team, but it’ll be  
ready clinched a playoff spot,  a long touchdown they get or  
bailey said sunday’s game is im­ something like that that’ll tip  
portant for her team.  the scales,” shudick said. “we’ve  
“we want to have a strong vic­ outplayed people, and we’ve  
tory that will make us a team to  done really well for having such  
fear coming into the playoffs,”  a young team.”  
bailey said.  shudick said the Finest will be  
lewis (1-3-1) cannot make  motivated to win sunday not just  
the playoffs, but senior cap- to capture their first victory.  
tain connaught blood said the  “we know the coaches on the  
chicks will play hard sunday.  other team, so we really want to  
“in our last game, we want to  beat them,” she said.  
end the season on a high note  mcglinn takes Farley’s threat  
and have a lot of fun,” blood said.  seriously, senior captain emily  
“we’re going to take everything  golden said.  
we’ve come so close to doing in  “we know that they’re prob- 
all the other games and put it  ably going to do everything that  
together.”  they can to get one win before  
blood said lewis could make a  the season is over,” she said.  
statement next year, as the team  “we’re expecting them to come  
has gained some critical experi­ out with their a-game.”  
ence from this season.  The shamrocks’ only loss this  
“i know our running back [ju­ season came against pangborn,  
nior colleen haller] is looking for  but golden said mcglinn’s two  
all the really great freshmen ath­ wins after that defeat, especially  
letes to come back and use what  the team’s victory over welsh  
they’ve learned this year,” blood  Family, have helped the team  

said. 
The phoxes and chicks close out their regular seasons when they meet sunday at 4 p.m. at labar Fields. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
Farley vs. McGlinn 


gain momentum for the upcom­ing playoffs. 
“we’re very confident,” she said. “we believe that we can beat anybody that we play.” 
mcglinn and Farley will try to cap off their respective regu­lar seasons with a win when the teams meet sunday at 5 p.m. at labar Fields. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu. 
Howard vs. Breen-Phillips 
By KYLE FOLEY 
sports writer 
sunday’s contest between howard and breen-phillips may not have playoff implications but both teams will take the field fighting for pride. with each team having recorded one win this season, both the ducks (1-5) and the babes (1-4) will look to go out with a victory. 
coming off fall break, the ducks will look to hit the pond swimming and have a strong showing in their final game. 
“i think we’ll have a little bit of a bounce in our step after break,” howard graduate student coach dan scheper said, “it’s been a little tough this season, but we want to cap it off strong with a victory.” 
The ducks will square off against a babes team that put up a hearty fight against pasquerilla west and intends to show the same intensity against howard. 
“in our game against pasquerilla west, which is argu­ably the best team, we played well,” junior captain molly Toner said, “we are trying to build on that game.” 
Toner said breen-phillips is ready to pull all the cards in order to assure a victory, 
“we have been working [on] making big plays late in the 
see Toner PAGE 15 

paid adverTisemenT 



MEN’S INTERHALL 

Fisher and Carroll battle for playoff berth 
Alumni aims for win against Morrissey, winless O’Neill faces Dillon, unbeaten Keenan takes on Keough 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
do or die. win and in. For Fisher and carroll, an entire season of practice and prepa­ration will come down to one 48-minute contest when the vermin (2-1) and green wave (2-1) battle sunday with a play­off spot on the line. 
Technically, the playoffs don’t start until next week. but carroll junior captain Tommy spoonmore isn’t looking that far. 
“[sunday] is win or go home,” spoonmore said. “we’re both 2-1, both fighting for second place in our division. we’re playing this game like it is a playoff game.” 
The vermin have put them­selves in the playoff hunt large­ly through the play of their defense, which has yet to allow a passing touchdown. 
“we have a great defensive line,” spoonmore said. “we’re able to stop the run and also the pass because our secondary is very good. The only way guys are able to attack our defense is by running outside the tack­les because we’re not giving up anything through the air.” 
despite the suffocating play of carroll’s defense, spoonmore knows defeating Fisher will not be an easy task. 
“They have a pretty good quarterback and have always sunday. 
“our starting running back isn’t going to be there, so, of­fensively, we’re going to have to throw the ball a little more and open up the passing game,” spoonmore said. “defensively we’re also missing a few guys so [junior cornerback] steve hannon is going to have to step up and fill in some spots. [neither situation] is ideal but it’s what we have to do.” 
For Fisher, however, the prob­lem may be more dire. 
“unfortunately, we may not have enough people at campus to play the game on sunday,” Fisher senior captain matt hart said. 
if the two sides can field teams, Fisher and carroll will battle for a playoff spot sunday at 1 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
Alumni vs. Morrissey 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
with one game left the in reg­ular season, alumni faces a crit­ical contest against morrissey on sunday that will determine its playoff status. 
The dawgs (2-1) will likely make the postseason with a victory but could be elimi­nated from contention if they lose to the manor (1-2), junior 

“[Sunday] is win or go home. ... We’re both 2-1, both fighting for second place in our division. We’re playing this game like it is 
a playoff game.” 
Tommy Spoonmore Carroll junior quarterback 
been able to run the ball effec­tively against us,” spoonmore said. “our main objective is to stop the run. if we can do that, we feel we can dictate the game.” 
absences will factor in the game as well, as both teams anticipate small squads come captain and left tackle Tom o’sullivan said. 
“we’re fairly certain that if we win, we’re in,” o’sullivan said. “but this is definitely a big game for us.” 
alumni, which made it to the semifinals last sea­son, will rely on two veteran 

paid adverTisemenT 


juniors, quarterback will cronin and running back kevin rolfs, to carry the load on offense. The dawgs will also be looking for a physi­cal defensive effort to keep morrissey off the board. 
“in our division, it comes down to being physical, so we want to do that to win and make the playoffs,” o’sullivan said. 
The manor face a differ­ent task in this matchup. Though his team’s playoff chances are slim, senior cap­tain Taylor stein still wants morrissey to claim a win to close out the season. 
The manor will turn to sophomore linebacker zac plantz and freshman line­backer and running back erik rayno to lead the charge. stein said morrissey would depend on rayno to have an impact on both sides of the ball. 
“he’s ready to make some plays and run over alumni defenders in the backfield,” stein said. “we’re looking for him to have a good game and put up some good numbers.” 
meanwhile, plantz con­cocted new schemes over fall break to revive morrissey’s playbook, and stein said he hopes the new plays will pay off. 
“we’ve got nothing to lose at this point, so why not give it everything?” stein said. “we’ll see what [plantz] has got.” 
The manor and the dawgs will square off in the regu­lar season finale sunday at 1 
p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
O’Neill vs. Dillon 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
dillon’s last-ditch effort to make the playoffs will be put to the test sunday, when the big red (1-2) square off against o’neill. 
The big red have struggled to this point but still have a chance to make the playoffs, provided they win and get some help from other teams. Junior captain and quarterback kevin Fink, who is returning from an injury, said his team has a chance to make the playoffs if they can stay fo­cused and play smart. 
“we need to play physical and limit our mistakes,” Fink said. “That means cutting down on penalties and turnovers.” 
in addition, Fink said he be­lieves defense will play a key role. 
“o’neill has a good offense and we’re going to have to step it up,” Fink said. “senior lineback­er ben Ferry will be key for our defense.” 
o’neill (0-3), on the other hand, will have to be con­tent to play the role of spoiler. according to junior captain eric reed, the mob certainly have no intention of laying down and are looking to win and improve for next year. 
“we want to have a good end to the season,” reed said. “even though next season is far away, we’d like to build some momentum.” 
still, if the mob are to upset dillon, reed said defense will be vital. 
“we need to step up on de­fense and stop the run,” reed said. 
specifically, reed said the linebacking corps, led by junior calvin hemington, will be cru­cial to this effort. 
o’neill and dillon will face off sunday at riehle Fields at stepan at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
Keenan vs. Keough 
By RICH HIDY 
sports writer 
in a battle of unbeaten squads, keenan faces keough on sunday with a division championship on the line. 
The knights (3-0) are coming off a low-scoring victory in slop­py conditions as they shut out stanford 13-0 on oct. 7. 
“last game we didn’t get to run everything we had planned on offense because of the field, so we just have to execute and get back in the swing of things,” keenan senior quarterback andrew mcdonough said. 
keenan is looking to find ex­tra motivation with the stakes so high against keough. 
“This game is huge for us,” mcdonough said. “we are both playing for the first seed and we expect them to come out and play well. we have a chance to make a statement after [fall] break.” 
keenan will be relying on two talented upperclassmen at re­ceiver in junior Jeremy riche and senior alex green. mcdonough said the knights will look to spread the field on offense in the matchup. 
“both green and riche have to step up and have big games for us, and if so, we should be able to take care of business,” mcdonough said. 
keough (3-0) defeated o’neill 
see keough PAGE 15 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S SWIMMING 

irish to face oakland, msu 
By NICK BOYLE 
sports writer 
notre dame will be busy this weekend, traveling to oakland (mich.) on Friday night before performing a quick turnaround with a trip to michigan state on saturday. 
irish coach Tim welsh said the irish will try to start the season off strong Friday with their sea­son’s first duel meet. 
“it’s our first chance for us to see this team in action,” welsh said. “we had a relay meet a cou­ple weeks ago, but this is our first formal two-team competition. we’re looking to get off to a great start and are very optimistic.” 
The irish have already com­peted against oakland this sea­son when the two teams faced off at the dennis stark relays in south bend. The relays consist­ed of 10 races in which the irish won five and oakland won five. welsh said he expects the meet Friday to be just as competitive. 
“The two relays at the begin­ning and end of the meet will be huge for us,” welsh said. “diving will also be quite important for us. our divers did well com­pared to oakland at the relays, and we’re hoping that they can have a repeat performance.” 
The irish will not have much time to rest after Friday, hav­ing to travel immediately to michigan state to take on the spartans the next day. 
“michigan state has been a competitive team in recent years,” welsh said. “They have a solid returning team of swim­mers and divers. it’s going to be a tough meet with the meet the night before.” 
having started training in august, the irish have been anx­iously waiting for these first duel meets of the season, welsh said. Friday and saturday’s meets will allow the irish to show the work they have done in preparation. 
“we have been training to­gether for a couple months now,” welsh said. “everyone is eager to get into our competition phase of the season.” 
The irish will look to three re­turning swimmers and divers for leadership over the weekend. returning sophomore diver and big east champion nick nemetz, senior big east swimmer of the year bill bass and junior all­american freestyle swimmer Frank dyer should prove to play a criticial role in the irish’s suc­cess this season. 
“we have three returning team members in nemetz, bass and dyer who were outstand­ing for us last year,” welsh said. “They have great experience of having done it, and we have strong leadership in them. we are also looking for people to emerge as leaders and competi­tors  for us, and find out what our character will be when we are tested.” 
welsh said he believes his team can use the meets to get the season off to a strong start. 
“[The meets are] going to de­pend on how everyone lines up,” welsh said. “we think our swim­ming is very balanced and deep and our diving is strong. both meets will be a big test for us to see where we are, but i am op­timistic we will start the season strong.” 
The irish will travel to rochester, mich., to face oakland at 6 p.m. before head­ing to michigan state for a noon meet saturday in east lansing, mich. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
Marquette 
conTinued From page 20 

consecutive victory over marquette, the irish will look for yet another stellar perfor­mance from senior forward ryan Finley, who netted a pair of goals wednesday. The lumberton, n.J., native leads notre dame with 16 goals, including 10 in his last six games. 
The irish have scored three or more goals in each of their last three contests, while the three scores wednesday were the most marquette has surrendered all sea­son. The golden eagles en­
tered  that  match  with  a  
0.6  goals-against-average.  
clark  acknowledged  notre  

dame’s strong performance wednesday, but said there were still valleys to go with the peaks. 
“we lost our way a little bit towards the second half of the first half, but that’s games,” clark said. “when you are playing against good teams they are going to have times in the game and you are going to have times when you are in the game. and when you are in the game, you’ve got to take the chances.” 
The irish will likely take those chances again saturday, with nothing to hold back in the regular season fina­le. with a win, notre dame would be in prime position to win at least a share of the big east regular season title. 
“i think, if we can win this on saturday, i think we would have a piece of the [big east] championship,” clark said. “and what a great league. i mean the blue division is phe­nomenal. To win that league would be a real honor and it would be fantastic for this team. so it would be nice. it would be the first opportunity to win a trophy this year and if we could win it, it would be very rewarding.” 
The irish and the golden eagles kick off at 8:05 p.m. at valley Fields in milwaukee. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
to do well,” waldrum said. “it 
Waldrum 
should be a really good battle 
conTinued From page 20 

with the way the coaches are out of syracuse. familiar with each other.” 
“They remind me a lot of notre dame worked hard in terms of how they play, to earn a home game for its their system very similar quarterfinal game and is 
Jackson 
conTinued From page 20 
“i want to get Johnson a game,” Jackson said. “right now, it’s kind of a feel thing for me. it’s steven’s first chance at this, but i also have to make sure to keep mike fresh. 
“i don’t want him to go such a long period of time before he gets his first start because you never know what’s going to happen. you have to make sure you have a second guy that has the ability, and mike certainly has the ability to play.” 
regardless of who stands between the pipes on Friday night for the irish, notre dame will be tested by northern michigan, and if the past is any indication, the game will be close. with the empha­sis on picking up every point possible, Jackson took time at the end of practice Tuesday to work on shootouts, looking for finishers among his squad that could net the team an extra conference point in the event of a tie. 
“i know that we have the guys that can get it done [in a shootout],” Jackson said. “every point is important.” 
The irish hit the ice against the wildcats on Friday and saturday at 7:35 p.m. in marquette, mich. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

to rutgers,” waldrum said. “They’re playing out of a 4-4­3 [formation], very much like we are. i think they’re solid in pretty much every position. 
“They’re one of those teams that, you know, when you look at them, you don’t hoping for a good turnout for the students and the local community, waldrum said. 
“playing at home, playing in front of your home fans, it’s huge,” waldrum said. “you sleep in your own bed, you’re in your routine, and 

“Playing at home, playing in front of your home fans, it’s huge.” 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 

really find a lot of weakness where you say, ‘we can ex­ploit this player.’ They’re solid throughout their roster.” 
waldrum and syracuse coach phil wheddon have a history together, having coached together on the u-23 
u.s. national Team, of which waldrum is the head coach. 
“i think he knows me and my style and the things i try most importantly, you hope that you’re playing in front of a good home crowd. so i re­ally, really hope the students will turn out for this first playoff game.” 
The irish face syracuse at 1 p.m. in alumni stadium on sunday in the big east Quarterfinals. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTz 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTrick cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: ciara, 27; katy perry, 28; Josh henderson, 31; zachary knighton, 34. 
Happy Birthday: size up your situation and make your move. it’s procrastination that will send you down the wrong path. keep your wits about you, do your homework quickly and act intuitively. This is not the year to waste time or to sit on the sidelines waiting to see what everyone else does first. your numbers are 2, 10, 16, 20, 28, 33, 39. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19):your intuition will not let you down when dealing with partners. asking questions and using diplomacy will help you get the answers you are looking for so you can make decisions and move forward with your life.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): collaborating with someone with experience will help you in many ways. what you can do when you put your mind to it will help to set your goals higher. romance is in the stars and will enhance a relationship that’s important to you. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t let confusion cost you. use your imagination and you’ll gain instead of lose. staying power will be the determining factor when it comes to your success. ask for a favor if it will help you complete a task.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): past experience, an excellent memory and preparation will help you reach your goal. love is highlighted, and socializing with someone special to celebrate what you have accomplished will enhance your relationship. 



LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): be careful how you deal with friends and relatives. not everyone will share your thoughts. listen carefully and follow practical suggestions that will help you stabilize your personal position. do what you can to help a good cause. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): get involved in a worthwhile organization, but don’t offer more than you can afford to part with financially. more time spent with family, fixing up your home or repairing a relationship that needs a little tender loving care is your best bet. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): The element of surprise will make what you do more inviting to someone you want to entice to join you. love is in the stars, and getting together with someone from your past will change your outlook and get you back on track. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): assess your situation at home. personal changes can be made that will boost your confidence and help you move in a direction you find more suitable. let your intuition guide you when dealing with older relatives or someone you must answer to. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): expect the unexpected when dealing with friends, relatives or people in your community. not everyone will be honest, which can send you down the wrong path. Focus more on your home and the changes that will help improve your lifestyle. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take a walk down memory lane and remember some of the people you have known who may be able to contribute to your current situa­tion. you have plenty to gain if you attend a reunion or call up an old friend. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): consider your options. Take note of the costs involved before you take on a new contract, lease or payment. you don’t want to limit your freedom to do the things you enjoy most. alterations to your living space will im­prove your situation. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): show off; what you do to impress people will help you win a contract or position that can alter your future. love and romance are in a high cycle, and plans to celebrate with someone you care for will improve your relation­ship. 


Birthday Baby: you are insightful, sensitive and extremely creative. you are nurturing and tactful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state  zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
HOCKEY 

Irish ready for last CCHA opener 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 
after a four game out-of­conference stretch to start the year, the irish will open their final season of ccha play when they travel to northern michigan on Friday and saturday for a two-game series against the wildcats. 
The ccha is set to dissolve following the 2012-2013 sea­son with the emergence of the big Ten hockey conference, and the irish (3-1-0, 0-0-0 ccha) will join hockey east beginning in the 2013-2014 season. For now, however, the irish are focused on compet­ing in a league that is still one of the nation’s best. 
“i think it could be even bet­ter than last year,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said of the ccha. “if you look at a team like northern michigan or lake superior that’s all of a sudden better than they were a year ago, it makes it all the more so.  our league has a good non-conference record over the past few weeks. we’ll have a lot of teams that are close to .500 in conference. every point could really matter.” 
notre dame and northern michigan have played each other 52 times throughout the two teams’ history, and each side owns 22 wins to go along with eight ties, including two ties at northern michigan last season. 
led by junior goaltender Jared coreau, who boasts 
a .913 save percentage, the wildcats (3-1-0, 0-0-0) are stingy defensively and will challenge an irish squad that from last year to this has struggled at times to find the back of the net. 
“They are always a very well-coached team, and they play very well in their own building with the olympic sheet,” Jackson said. “They are always fundamentally sound and don’t give up a lot.  They’ve got good for­wards that transition quickly and really good goaltending. They’re a nice team.” 
after taking over the start­ing job at the end of last sea­son, irish junior goaltender steven summerhays has played well through the sea­son’s opening four games, sporting a sterling .943 save percentage. however, Jackson said that he still has not de­cided how the goaltending duties will be split up for the series, given the work that se­nior mike Johnson has put in during practice and his own desire to keep his backup fresh. 
see Jackson PAGE 18 


MEN’S SOCCER 

division title up for grabs 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 

it all boils down to this. Four teams. one identical record. one division title on the line. and it all will be decided in one day. 
no. 8 notre dame closes out the regular season with a pivotal conference match-up against no. 5 marquette on saturday. The irish (13­3, 5-2 big east) downed the golden eagles (14-2, 5-2) on wednesday with a 3-1 win to pull into a four-way tie atop the big east blue division. no. 3 connecticut and no. 6 georgetown also have 5-2 con­ference records. 
“it’s an unbelievable league,” irish coach bobby clark said. “There are four teams that are in the top 10 in the country, all are in the blue division, all fighting for one, two, three and four, and it will go right down to the wire.” 
and after over two months of regular season action it all comes down to saturday, when the irish and golden eagles square off in their rematch. meanwhile, georgetown (14-2-1, 5-2) faces seton hall and connecticut (13-2-1, 5-2) battles providence, who de­feated the huskies in an upset wednesday. 
“anything can happen,” clark said. “i think all four teams could win the league and all four teams could end up possibly being fourth, so you don’t get any closer or more exciting than that.” 
after besting marquette at alumni stadium on wednesday, the irish head northwest to face the golden eagles in milwaukee, wisc., where marquette is 9-0 this season. notre dame lost 1-0 last year to the golden eagles at valley Fields. 

“it will be a huge game up in milwaukee on saturday night,” clark said. “and we lost last year. so i think, just hav­ing seen marquette here [on wednesday], what we realize is this is a tall order. but if you want to be champions, you’ve got to be able to go to places like milwaukee and you’ve got to handle the game and come away with a win.” 
in order to get a second 
see marQueTTe PAGE 18 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

ND to host Orange in tourney 
Notre Dame, Syracuse will square off in Big East quarterfinals 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 

after clinching a share of the big east national division regular-season title with a double-overtime 1-0 win over depaul on Friday in chicago, no. 24 notre dame will host syracuse in the big east tour­nament’s quarterfinal round. 
The irish (12-4-2, 8-1-1 big east) had an impressive con­ference run, rattling off seven straight wins to start the big east regular season. after a 2-2 double-overtime tie with rutgers on oct. 7 in alumni stadium and a 2-0 loss at georgetown on oct. 12, the irish defeated villanova, 1-0, before handling depaul (9-9­2, 3-6-1). 
irish coach randy waldrum said he was pleasantly sur­prised by his young team’s solid performance during the regular season and said it is clicking at exactly the right time. 
“i think going through with a young team, where we start­ed, and going through the whole big east pretty much undefeated with the one loss there at georgetown, i think says a lot,” waldrum said. 
The tie with rutgers and the one loss are the only non-wins on an otherwise shining conference record. waldrum said he would have liked to see the irish play better in those two matchups, but he is not upset with the overall outcome. 
“i thought we were better than rutgers when we tied,” waldrum said. “i thought we didn’t play two good halves against georgetown in the loss. so, you know, i would have liked to see us be a little bit better in that. if we look at the whole picture, i’m really pleased with the way we went through the big east.” 
after the regular season performance notre dame displayed over the last five weeks, waldrum said his team is exactly where it needs to be heading into the postseason. 
“i think right now the team’s been playing really well,” waldrum said. “i think we’re heading into the big east relatively healthy for this time of the year. i think the chemistry’s great. i think they kids are excited about playing.” 
notre dame’s final con­ference standing granted it a home game for the quar­terfinal round of the confer­ence tournament as well as a much-needed break Friday. 
“we don’t have a game [tonight],” waldrum said. “That’s allowed us to have a couple days off in the week early to kind of help us rest and recover a little bit. would expect us to be really good on sunday.” 
although the irish have not played the orange (9-6-2, 6-3-1) this season, waldrum said he knows what to expect 
see waldrum PAGE 18 






