The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 37 | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘College GameDay’ returns to Notre Dame 
ESPN pregame show will come to campus this weekend for the first time since 2005  
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
editor-in-chief 
almost exactly seven years ago to the day, espn’s popu­lar pregame show “college gameday” visited campus to broadcast live before notre dame hosted usc in the in­famous “bush push” game. Today, after the fortunes of the irish football program have fallen and risen again, the first of the approximately 50 cast and crew of “gameday” begin arriving on campus from all over the country to prepare for saturday’s nation­al broadcast. 
“it’s great. it’s been way, way, way too long since we’ve been there,” espn analyst and announcer Kirk herbstreit said. “it’s nice to see that they have a high-profile game at home to allow us to come in there and just add to the at­mosphere hopefully there in south bend on saturday,” 
Tom engle, producer of “gameday,” said he and his crew were excited to return to south bend. 
“The tradition that notre dame has, not only with foot­ball but as a university, it’s a special place. any time we get the opportunity to come back there is great,” engle said in a phone interview with The observer. “it’s too bad it’s been as long as it’s been since we’ve been there, but i think it’s a good sign for notre dame that we’re coming back. That means obviously they’re doing something well on the field.” 
engle said espn makes its decision about where to host “gameday” each week based solely on its opinion of what the biggest game of the week is. while abc and espn (who are both owned by disney) broadcast many games each week and nbc has exclusive rights to all notre dame home games, engle said that did not matter. 
see gameday PAGE 5 




Brazilian band visits campus 
belles volleyball 
By LEILA GREEN 
news writer 
Forty members of the brazilian youth band meninos do morumbi ar­rived on campus Tuesday to visit the university and perform during the halftime show on saturday at the notre dame-stanford foot­ball game. 
in english, meninos do morumbi means “Kids of morumbi,” the neighbor­hood in são paulo, brazil, where the band is based. The students will remain on campus until sunday and are lodging at the sacred heart parish center. 
according to the notre dame band website, in 2011, 66 members of the notre dame band toured brazil and performed for meninos do morumbi in sao paulo, the country’s largest city and dr. Ken dye, director of 


rallies for cure 
lung they believed to be lung can­cer. They said there was little they could do. even so, payne’s brother told her she would “crush it” and triumph. after treatment, the tu­mor shrunk and the doctors dis­covered that the cancer was not in her lungs, but located in her lymph nodes. 
“it was a relief, relatively,” schroeder-biek said. 
none of the athletes present at saint mary’s during payne’s career are still enrolled at saint mary’s, but schroeder-biek said she feels as if she’s watched the “once a belle, always a belle” motto come to life. 
“The teammates she had then are here for her now,” schroeder­biek said. “They hold her hand during [chemotherapy] treat­ments. when she shaved her head, they were right there with 
see volleyball PAGE 4 


By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
The saint mary’s volleyball team’s annual “dig for the cure” has evolved into something more aggressive — and more personal. The team will host the event, now titled “crush for the cure,” at 7 
p.m. tonight in the angela athletic Facility to raise money for a saint mary’s alumna and lymphoma patient, anne blair payne. 
payne graduated in 2002 as an education major and was a mem­ber of saint mary’s basketball team for all four years of her time at saint mary’s. 
“she had just come back for a 10-year reunion this past June,” bands, said he enjoyed the The band later invited the 
Julie schroeder-biek, saint mary’s visit to brazil. youth band to notre dame 
athletic director said. “The next “They were very gracious to perform and experience 
week i got a call that she went for hosts and shared their excit-campus life. dye said he 
a run and had severe chest pain.” ing music with our band,” 
shortly thereafter, doctors dye said. see band PAGE 7 
found a large tumor in payne’s 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is the latest you have gone to sleep since the beginning of the school year? 


Alicia Martinez 
senior 
lewis 
“6 a.m.” 


Angelique Laboy-Coparro 
junior 
lyons 
“5 a.m.” 


Anna Morton 
sophomore howard 
“6:30 a.m.” 

Jimmy Moley 
freshman 
siegfried 
“3:30 a.m.” 


Michael Fliotos 
freshman 
duncan 
“midnight.” 


Andrew Hennessey 
junior alumni 
“4 a.m.” 


Sophomore golfer Peyton Vitter tallies his score on Monday at the Warren Golf Course. The team hosted the Fighting Irish Gridiron Classic this week which began on Sunday and concluded on Tuesday. The Irish came in eighth place as a team. 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Jillian barwick chris allen Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
ann marie Jakubowski Katie heit sarah swiderski peter steiner 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Jaqueline o’neill Troy mathew 
Photo Viewpoint 

Elevator Pitch “There is No Such Right to Life Saturday Scholar Sunday Mass 
Kirby mcKenna caroline lang 
Workshop Thing as a Secular Information Table Series Basilica of the Sacred 202 DeBartolo Hall Society” LaFortune Snite Museum Heart 2 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Hesburgh Library 3 p.m. - 6 p.m. 12 p.m. - 1 p.m. 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. 
Corrections 
Craft a well prepared 5 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Part of Respect Life The history of 

in the oct. 9 article “alumni, students research description. Free admission. Week. campaign commercials. manage housing rental business,” two numbers were misstated. rent like 
Crush for a Cure Concert: Men’s and Women’s Football Game Learn to Curl 
a champion’s annual revenue is over 
Angela Athletic Facility ensembleND Swimming: Dennis Notre Dame Stadium Compton Family Ice 
$500,000, not its annual profit. The 
7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Stark Relays 3:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. Arena 
company is also present on 15 college 
Donate to help a SMC Arts Center Rolfs Aquatic Center Stanford vs. Notre 5 p.m.- 9:30 p.m. 
campuses, not 30. The observer 
aluma diagnosed with 7 p.m. - 8:45p.m. 5 p.m. - 8 p.m. Dame $10 
regrets the error. 
lymphoma. Tickets $15-30 Free admission. 



Professor’s book wins prize 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
news writer 
brad gregory, a professor of history at notre dame, won the inaugural aldersgate prize for christian scholarship for the ability to reflect the high­est ideals of christian scholar­ship through his book, “The unintended reformation: how a religious revolution secularized society.” 
gregory, the dorothy g. griffin collegiate chair in early modern european history, said the award came as a sur­prise for him because didn’t even know the book had been nominated. 
“i didn’t know anything was afoot until i got an email from the provost of indiana wesleyan university. i have no idea who nominated me,” he said. “it doesn’t matter, i’m pleased with the outcome.” 
gregory said the book ad­dresses why there are so many answers to the big “life ques­tions” people ask today. 
“how did the world that we’re living in today — the west, north america, espe­cially western europe — come to be the way that it is? in terms of the huge variety of people’s answers to questions about the meaning of life, what morality is, what should we live for and what we should care about, there is a hyperpluralism of truth claims about answers to ‘life questions,’” he said. 

The book emerged from his interest in different ways to approach history and the reformation time period, gregory said. 
“i found a way of connect­ing the two through a multi-stranded, long-term history. certain things became clear that previously hadn’t co­alesced, even though i had been thinking about them for many years,” gregory said. “This is really not a book that anybody in their right mind would set out to write. This is a book that came to me in unex­pected ways.” 
gregory said his book, ap­proximately 500 pages, is big, both chronologically and conceptually. 
“it’s provocative, and readers find it challenging in a number of ways. it’s an interrogation of the character of the uni­versity and how the different disciplines are related to one another,” he said. “it also con­cerns how historians divide up the past, even though we know our subdivisions into different types of history (political, eco­nomic, intellectual, etc.) isn’t how life really works. These things are all intertwined.” 
The main questions also re­late to notre dame’s identity as a catholic university, he said. 
“notre dame essentially has the same structure as secular universities do,” he said. “This 
paid adverTisemenT 
is not meant as a critique so much as an observation, but if theology is made simply one department among others and students fulfill their the­ology requirements just like they do the others, then the relationship between theology and other disciplines can’t be seen.” 
gregory said there are no dis­ciplines that ask how various forms of inquiry are related. 
“we need different disci­plines to understand reality in all its complexity, but there is no discipline that asks how these fit together,” he said. “students take a smorgas­bord of classes, but almost no scholars or scientists are ask­ing questions about how they might be related. students are confused, and it’s almost im­possible to come away from an education anywhere in the 
u.s. today and have some kind of coherent view of what one has learned in one’s classes.” 
in his classes, gregory said he wants students to be aware of the bigger picture. 
“in part, this means we need to see things in terms of their long-term historical transfor­mation — how we have come to have the academic disci­plines, institutions, assump­tions, and objectives that we have,” he said. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 

dreamcatchers grants wishes 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
For sophomore caitlin crommett, volunteering at a hospice near her orange county home has become second na­ture. crommett began volun­teering when she was just 12 years old. at age 15, she founded dreamcatchers, a club of high school students that granted fi­nal wishes for terminally ill hos­pice patients at hospice care of the west, where crommett had volunteered. 
“i saw the movie ‘patch adams’ … and it inspired me to do something like that for the patients to make them happy in their final days,” she said. “so i pitched the idea to the hospice and they really supported it.” 
Today, dreamcatchers is a national organization with chapters in 11 states and official club status at notre dame. 
The foundation is completely student-run, crommett said. participating high schools and universities team up with near­by hospices, and the clubs work to help dying patients achieve their last wishes. 
The notre dame club col­laborates with the center for hospice care in south bend and harbor light hospice in mishawaka. 
“[The students] will send dream request forms to their patients and then get it sent back to the high school or col­lege club,” she said. “basically all the hospice does is send out request forms and we will take it from there.” 
This summer, crommett and fellow sophomore Katie mcelligot, vice president of dreamcatchers, traveled the na­tion promoting dreamcatchers and assisting in the establish­ment of additional clubs. 
“we decided to team up and dedicate our summer to es­tablishing satellite clubs in 11 different states, achieving me­dia coverage and community awareness and securing spon­sorship to help the foundation grow,” mcelligot said. 

The pair traveled for six weeks connecting school adminis­trations with local hospices and finalizing a business plan for the future growth of the organization, mcelligot said. dreamcatchers, which is cur­rently funded completely by donations, is in the midst of working to obtain corporate sponsorship. 
mcelligot became involved with dreamcatchers because its message resonates so strong­ly, she said. 
“it deals with challenges that are very relatable, and works toward affecting people in the most positive way possible,” she said. “The efforts of the clubs re­ally make a difference for both the patient and their families and create a lasting memory.” 
interacting with patients and families creates lifelong memo­ries for members of the clubs as well. 
one of the most unforgettable wishes crommett has assisted with was the first wish she ever granted, for a hospice patient who was a sailor. 
“he sailed his whole life and wanted to go on a sailboat one more time with his family, and they all flew in for this two-hour boat ride,” she said. “we’ve learned a lot that they don’t have these extravagant dreams, they just want to be with the people they love.” 
dreamcatchers contin­ues to look toward expansion, crommett said, and hopes to reach between five and ten new markets each year. 
regardless of the foundation’s future, crommett said her work has enabled her to meet the most amazing people, from the hospice staffs to their patients. 
“i would think [the patients] might be kind of depressed since they know they’re dy­ing, but i’ve encountered the complete opposite,” she said. “They’re the happiest people, they know they’re surrounded by love.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MBA competition begins 
By TORI ROECK 
news writer 
notre dame’s master’s in business administration (mba) program is providing prospec­tive mba students with an op­portunity to showcase their business acumen through the third-annual mini deep-dive challenge, a competition asking students to solve a real-life cor­porate responsibility.according to a university press release, the grand prizewinner will receive a $25,000 fellowship if admitted to the notre dame mba pro­gram, and the first 50 students to sign up will receive a $50 prize package. 
bill brennan, mba initiatives program director, said the chal­lenge is based on interterm in­tensive sessions in which mba students participate twice a year. 
“what we do in those is in a four day period of time, we work with what i refer to as ‘big, sexy companies’ like ge, ibm [and] hp … [and] students tackle live business problems that the companies have yet to resolve,” brennan said. 
This year’s partner for the mini deep-dive challenge is sprint, who will post a busi­ness problem concerning corporate responsibility online, and students will have to draft a one-page explanation of their solution, brennan said. 

“The real challenge to a lot of people is … creating a solution that’s refined to the point that it’s easily articulated and that it makes a lot of sense business-wise,” he said. “you’re looking at something that’s seemingly very complex, but your solution has to evolve in the rationality you use to the point where you have to explain it in one page.” 
Faculty at the mendoza college of business will choose the best proposals to send to sprint executives, who will then determine the grand prizewin­ner and the top 10 finishers, brennan said. 
“understanding the problem or the opportunity, coming up with a viable solution — those would be heavily weighted ele­ments of the judging process,” he said. 
besides testing students’ busi­ness skills, brennan said one goal of the competition is to give prospective mba students an idea of what the notre dame program is like, which influ­enced the program’s decision to make corporate responsibility the challenge’s theme. 
“’ask more of business’ is our slogan here in the mendoza college of business, and we re­ally believe strongly that corpo­rate social responsibility is an important part of business,” he said. “doing well is doing good, and it leads to good results not only for society but for the bot­tom line of the business … we think [this focus is] one of those things that makes notre dame a little bit unique, that we’re will­ing to show our values.” 
in addition to promoting the mba program, brennan said the competition is also an exten­sion of the work the mendoza college of business does to raise awareness about corporate responsibility. 
“This is also a continuation of who we are. Fr. sorin wrote that letter years ago about being a force for good in society, and this is one of the many little ways that we hope to do that as well, by providing exposure to people on corporate social responsibility,” he said. “even something like this mini deep-dive challenge is … hopefully making for better citizenry, society and business­people all in one.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
Volleyball 
conTinued From page 1 
her. They set up a donation website on goFundme so that she can pay for the best treatment and take that worry off her mind.” 
payne maintains a regular work­out routine and uses running as a metaphor for her life in her blog. in an entry from week 15, day 71, payne recalls that “as [she] passed hikers on the trail, [she] got a surge of energy and unknowingly picked up the pace. it wasn’t something [she] planned on, it just happened. similar to now and how all the en­couragement and support seems to carry [her] along with [her] even realizing it.” 
payne updates the online jour­nal daily, to document her journey with cancer. she ends each entry with an inspirational “lesson of the day. 
“she’s handling everything with grace and dignity and embod­ies true athletic spirit —battling,” schroeder-biek said. “she’s posi­tive. she finds something to get her through the day and in doing that, she inspires others. i’m proud of our community for being there for her.” 
Toni Kuschel, the belles’ volley­ball coach, says that this year the team “wanted to do something that hit close to home and beneft­ted someone we knew.” 
“once the issue was brought to my attention, i talked to the girls about it and we decided we wanted to sponsor her in her courageous battle,” Kuschel said. 

“not only are we expecting our fans and other teams, but the sup­port is also coming from anne’s past teammates and other alumni, 
The “crush for the cure” will feature t-shirts, bracelets, desserts from sodexo and other conces­sions. all of the profit will be donat­ed to payne’s fundraiser. 
after schroeder-biek sent payne an email about the “crush it” bracelets she had just ordered, she heard the phone ring. 
“no caller id or anything and i pick it up and say hello and no one responds,” schroeder-biek said..“it took me a while to realize it was anne on the line, crying.” 
people are allowed and en­couraged to either donate a fixed amount or to pledge a certain amount per saint mary’s kill during the game against albio., Kuschel said. 
“These are the kind of lifts people need,” schroeder-biek. raising money matters but support like this is what carries people further than any of us realiz..” 
payne’s fundraiser is $636 short of its $15,000 goal. 
For more information, visit www.gofundme.com/ rwb70#description and w w w.facebook .com/ everyonelovesanne. 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




GameDay 
conTinued From page 1 
“it doesn’t really bother us what network it’s on,” he said. “we’re going to go where we think in our estimation the best game is every week re­gardless of what network it’s on or anything like that.” 
John heisler, senior asso­ciate athletic director, said the university welcomed “gameday” to campus and was excited about the oppor­tunity to host the show. 
“i think it’s a great compli­ment to everybody,” heisler said. “There’s not a foot­ball program in the country that wouldn’t like to have ‘gameday’ come on any given weekend.” 
engle said while the saturday morning broad­cast is the centerpiece of the show’s visit, “gameday” will start to have a visible campus presence as early as Thursday. 
“There will be a lot of action around there on Thursday setting up the set and our ‘college gameday’ footprint … which seems like it’s getting bigger and bigger each year,” he said. “we have obviously our set, and then flanking our set is two Jumbotrons for all the crowd to be able to watch and hear the show as it goes on. so it’ll be quite a presence once we get everything set up Thursday afternoon.” 
although “gameday” vis­ited notre dame’s contest at michigan last year, engle said those fans who last saw the show live in 2005 will notice differences. 
“it’s a whole new demo­graphic of students we’re reaching out to … our foot­print’s gotten much bigger since then,” he said. “we do our best to keep the fans that do show up involved by play­ing music, by playing the show on the two Jumbotrons … and just interaction with the fans out there.” 
notre dame hosted the first-ever campus broadcast of “college gameday” in 1993 before the then-no. 2 irish defeated then-no. 1 Florida state. heisler said the show has become much bigger than what it used to be. 
“we look back on when it first came here back in 1993, it was nowhere near the stat­ure of what it is now,” he said. “in fact, they were up here in­doors in the concourse of the Joyce center, there were cer­tainly some people that came and watched it, [but] there was nowhere near the inter­est in having a huge audience that there is now.” 

engle said there might be surprises for fans in atten­dance, but he was sure fans would enjoy the experience. 
“we have some things in the works,” he said. “nothing that i can really tell you now, be­cause i’m not sure yet … but i think they’ll enjoy it, i’ll say that. The people that show up will have a couple wrinkles that will make it worth their while for coming.” 
engle said notre dame’s Thanksgiving weekend con­test at usc could also see the show visit, especially if both teams continue to win. 
“There’s obviously a ton of games that need to be played paid adverTisemenT 
by a lot of teams before then,” he said. “but it’s a definite possibility.” 
espn will begin broadcast­ing parts of various shows at 9 a.m. Friday and broadcast “college Football live” from its on-campus set Friday af­ternoon. The set will be locat­ed on library Quad. 
“on Friday, we start do­ing T.v. at 9 a.m.,” he said. “There will be guys and girls out there on and off all day … until about 4 p.m. there will be some sort of action on the set. people are more than wel­come to hang out on Friday if they want to.” 
The “gameday” festivi­ties will start early saturday morning, as filming will begin at 8 a.m. The show will go live at 9 a.m. on espnu and then will be live on espn from 10 
a.m. to noon. in a now-famous “gameday” tradition, espn analyst lee corso will pre­dict the winner of the notre dame-stanford contest short­ly before the show’s end by donning a mascot uniform of the team he picks to win. 
“who knows what he’s going to do?” engle said. “it’ll be a spectacle about 11:55 when he makes his pick. i don’t know where he’s going yet, but we’ll see.” 
engle encouraged students to show up early to the set, especially if they wanted to see themselves on national television. 
“if you get there early, obvi­ously you’ll get up close and get a chance to be on Tv. we’ve had people camp out before,” he said. “we’ve seen all kinds of things over the years. it’s kind of first-come first serve as far as your chance to get in the front row and possibly see yourself on ‘gameday. … the earlier that you come, the better.” 
herbstreit said he was excit­ed to broadcast from campus, especially after he learned students would be finishing midterms this week. 
“oh my gosh,” he said. “They [the students] will be out of their minds. That’ll be fun.” 
“college gameday” will begin broadcasting live at 9 
a.m. on espnu and continue its broadcast from 10 a.m. to noon on espn. The set will be on library Quad. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




Jimmy John talks entrepreneurship 
By MADDIE DALY 
news writer 
Jimmy John brought a huge turnout to his lecture on entre­preneurship Tuesday evening — and not just because of the free sandwiches. he kept the crowd laughing during the entire hour-long presentation and told his impressive rags-to-riches story. 
“in June 1982, i graduated sec­ond from last in my high school class. i guess maybe i turned in one more paper than the last guy,” John said. 
raised in a military family, John had low expectations for himself, partly because of his father. 
“my father didn’t pay much at­tention about what i was going to do,” John said. “he thought i’d go to the army since that’s what my brothers did, but that was the last thing i wanted to do.” 
instead of going off to the army, John bargained with his father and got enough cash to start a business on the streets of chicago. 
“i really wanted to open a chicago hotdog stand, and my dad said he’d lend me $25,000 if he can have 48% of the profit,” John said. “The deal was that if it fails, i would have to go to the army.” 
after realizing how unrealistic his budget was, John switched from hotdogs to sandwiches. he had visited a small sandwich shop in southern illinois with only four pieces of equipment, and he found that he was able to make that happen with his dad’s start-up money. 
he started his shop work­ing alone from 8:30 a.m. to 2:30 
a.m. every day with very few customers. 
“it was physically brutal; i didn’t know it was possible to work for that long,” John said. “The second week, though, i got into it. give the fat people more mayo, scrape some off for the skinny guys and after 1:30 a.m. people don’t know what they’re eating anyway so i give them the end slices of meat.” 
after his first year, John went from having $1,000 in his bank account to $21,000. 
“i became in-tune to what made the bank balance go up and down. i found out i love making sandwiches for people 
— giving someone a product and having the people give me mon­ey and say thank you … it was just buzzing my soul,” John said. 
John said with his success came some difficulties due to his lack of a business background. eventually he learned how to deal with money from his father. 
“my father told me to pay for everything cod – check on de­livery. everything i had delivered at my sub shop i had a carbon copy of. i deposited money every day,” John said. “i became an ac­countant by default; that’s what paying cod does. i had to live in reality with my cash.” 
in april 1985 Jimmy John bought out his father for the orig­inal $25,000 start-up money plus interest. by the time he turned 30 years old, he had made his first million. last year, he reached over a billion. 
“i mean i guess i’m successful now. i guess that’s kind of how it works,” John said. “i also give the managers at my restaurants 25% of the profit plus their minimum salary. it’s our profit-sharing program.” 
after he instituted the profit-sharing program, John said his managers literally doubled their unit volume in their chain stores. 
“The attractiveness of the offer was just uncanny,” John said. 
after telling of his success, John gave his audience advice on how to get where he is today. 
“right now, if you’re not work­ing, get to work and begin learn­ing. if you’re sitting waiting for the perfect job, somebody’s go­ing pass you by. Just get some ex­perience under your belt,” John said. “and if you’re in debt get out of it so you can get into re­ality. every bill that comes into my office today gets paid today; i don’t owe anyone a penny.” 
John repeatedly emphasized the idea of hard work and physi­cal labor. 
“if you’re going to get a job, arrive an hour late and stay an hour later, just to do it. even if your boss doesn’t notice what you’re doing, the dude in that office notices,” he said. “hard work and great execution are really what separate good from great.” 
another aspect of work John focused on is the relationships between employees. 
“work for a leader you admire; don’t work for a jerk,” he said. “and be careful who you hang out with because we become just like the people we spend time with. so choose wisely.” 
John finished up his lecture by thanking the local workers who attended his talk. he also asked the students to do their part for america and take risks by starting businesses, creating jobs doing exactly what he did. 
The program finished off with a question-and-answer session. The crowd’s favorite question appeared to be about his most embarrassing moment in busi­ness so far. 
“drunk Facebooking,” John said. “same goes for tweeting.” 
amidst the roaring laughter, John concluded his talk with a last piece of advice. 
“it’s not about a quick buck or a scam. it’s really about making a whole bunch of really good decisions,” he said. “ This ain’t the dress rehearsal. it’s the big show.” 
Contacrt Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 


Band 
conTinued From page 1 
is looking forward to the interaction between the notre dame band members and the young performers from brazil. 
according to their web­site, meninos do morumbi is a social project that gives youth an alternative to de­linquency, violence and drugs through music. 
“we attend around 2,000 children and young from 22 slums of são paulo,” ana paula costa, the band’s spokeswoman, said. 
costa said meninos do morumbi has had 14,000 
“The visit will share an important aspect of Brazilian culture, as well as our love for music and dance, with the entire Notre Dame community.” 
Sandra Teixeira 
professor 
Portuguese 
youth participants thus far. musician and current director Flávio pimenta 
founded the band in 1996. 
“i originally invited chil­dren from the slums and poor communities found begging on the streets of my neighborhood to teach music in my studio in my house,” pimenta said. “The idea was not and is not charit y.” 
pimenta said the band has greatly impacted the students’ lives. 
“not only the music, but the experience of good val­ues. we are a place for good values,” pimenta said. 
according to a press re­lease, the group provides an escape from situations of personal and social risk through many expressions. 
“we offer them a range of activities in the areas of culture, music, arts, educa­tion and sports,” costa said. The band has performed for former u.s. president george w. bush as well as singer madonna, accord­ing to costa. They have also performed in the united Kingdom and France. 
The band’s style of mu­sic interprets songs of brazilian and african folk­lore. according to costa, the youth play music from brazilian genres including jongo, maracatu, funk and samba. 
sandra Teixeira, a notre dame portuguese professor originally from brazil, said she is excited for the band’s v isit. 
“The portuguese and brazilian studies program is very excited about this incredible opportunity,” Teixeira said. “The visit will share an important as­pect of brazilian culture, as well as our love for music and dance, with the entire notre dame community.” 
meninos do morumbi will participate in many events throughout notre dame’s campus. 
The band is holding a performance today and a 
bra zilian  instrument  and  
da nce  workshop  at  t he  
ricci  band  rehea rsa l  ha ll  
from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m.  

Thursday, the brazil and portuguese language clubs of notre dame will host a welcome reception and social hour in the ball­room of lafortune student center from 3:30 to 5 p.m. 
“besides having the unique opportunity to watch a vibrant and cultur­ally infused show, students will be able to witness a very successful story of the determination and tal­ent exemplified by these kids and mentors,” Teixeira said. 
Contact Leila Green at lgreen2@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


INSIDE COLUMN 
vacant voter 

Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 
i don’t vote. 

i’ve never voted before. i don’t really care; it seems like a waste of time to me. i wasn’t 18 for the last presidential elec­tion, but i probably wouldn’t have voted anyways. i could’ve sent in absentee ballots for the 2010 congressional elec­tions, but i didn’t. 
i get most of my political news from “The daily show with Jon stewart.” i didn’t watch the debate. i watched “south park” instead. 
i get lots of emails and Facebook in­vites to lectures, seminars and discus­sions on different political and social issues on campus, but i don’t go. i don’t even read the email. if i open some­thing and see it’s been sent to a listserv, i just keep on going with my life. 
i’m registered as an independent, and i say that it’s because i don’t want to be locked into a party, it’s really mostly because i don’t want anyone calling me asking for money. 
i couldn’t tell you who my governor is, let alone my senators or congressman. 
but i don’t think my country’s perfect. 

i think it’s weird that we have so much debt. 
i know that our education system could be better. 
i don’t like that we can’t even talk about higher taxes for the extremely wealthy. 
i’m not sure how i feel about the whole healthcare thing, but i’m also not sure how cool it is that so many people are uninsured. 
The whole equal marriage rights thing seems like more of a fairness is­sue than a moral one to me. 
i’d really like to get a job some day, and i don’t particularly want anyone in my family to lose theirs, so the unem­ployment numbers scare me a little bit. 
i have opinions. There are things that matter to me. 
but a smart, albeit annoying, voter would say to me, “you don’t vote so you shouldn’t complain.” and they would be correct. 
sometimes in order to move yourself forward as a person it’s important to be plainly honest with yourself. 
i am a child of my generation. i’m dis­illusioned with my country’s politics, from the way they’re played out to the way they’re covered in the media to the way they’re talked about in public con­versations, to the point of total apathy. 
but i suppose the only way i’ll ever feel better about it is if i get off my lazy butt and do something about it. 
so yeah, i don’t vote. but maybe i should. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
John Sandberg 
Fisherman’s musings 
i was forced to eat my own words last week, and never have they tasted so good. 
my previous column on sept. 25 (“Frivolities left and right”) detailed the “embarrassing reality” of this presiden­tial campaign, namely the endless com­petition of sound bites on insignificant issues taking place between two weak candidates. but for 90 minutes last week president obama and mitt romney baked that column and served it to me in a warm slice of humble pie. 
wednesday night a real debate un­folded. romney was the winner, and his performance undoubtedly did much to tighten a race that appeared to be quick­ly turning in obama’s favor. 
by all accounts this was a badly-needed game changer for the romney campaign, making the competition for a seat in the oval office a lot more in­teresting with fewer than 30 days until election day. 
put aside winners and losers, though, and the fact is this debate concerned domestic policy issues regarding taxes, health care and the role of the federal government in general, all of which have genuine implications for the country. 
Knocks on romney’s tax returns or obama’s appearances on daytime Tv were noticeably absent, perhaps an implicit understanding between the two candidates that it’s time to put the sardines back in their can and fry bigger fish. year after year voters plead with candidates to move away from person-ality-driven beauty contests and focus on the things that matter. 
ask, voters, and you shall receive. 
wednesday night the two candidates for president made their cases why their respective plans for the country were better than the others’, albeit it with inevitable degrees of spin on the op­ponent’s positions. (They are still politi­cians, after all.) no one said these issues were the most electrifying, but everyone agrees they matter. The country is better off because of these discussions. 
during the debate nbc news’s chuck Todd tweeted, “Folks wanting a de­bate on details, they are getting it.” a half-hour into it he added, “That first segment was about as good of a first seg­ment as i can remember in my lifetime of watching these fall debates.” high praise from a guy who’s been covering politics for two decades. 
of course, others in the media were grasping for more — a lot more in some cases. 
The washington post’s e.J. dionne, another respected voice in american journalism, described the night as little more than “a festival of technocratic mush — dueling studies mashed in with competing statistics.” 
reasons behind obama’s weaker than expected performance were discussed, including everything from his adjust­ment to the altitude in denver to trying too hard not to appear smug. 
The liberal blogosphere lit up with conspiracy theories surrounding the handkerchief/supposed cheat sheet romney placed on his podium. 

Jim lehrer was deemed the worst moderator ever, a measly welcome mat for mitt romney’s diamond-soled shoes to stomp all over. (how dare he veer off the sacrosanct path of six neatly divided segments of 15 minutes for each topic?) 
and in case anyone was asleep at the time, romney likes big bird but wants to cut his federal funding. 
did i miss anything? 
These sidebars might all be more en­tertaining, but they miss that this de­bate was about what voters have asked for all along: policy and ideas. 
Tomorrow night the vice presidential candidates enter the ring. in one corner, Joe biden — the current vice president who conspicuously brings soul and red-bloodedness to an administration headed by a calculated but often numb­ingly professorial president. 
in the other corner, paul ryan — the policy wonk of a congressman who nev­er seems more comfortable than when talking numbers, with one hand clutch­ing a dense briefing book and the other handling a powerpoint clicker with such deftness it would make any college pro­fessor blush. 
we can only hope this debate will be as productive as the first. 
John Sandberg is a junior political science major from Littleton, Colo. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY “mix a little foolishness with your prudence: it’s good to be silly at the right moment.”  WEEKLY POLL What’s your favorite stress-reliever for midterms week?  
Horace Roman lyricist & poet  Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll by 5 p.m. Thursday.  



The observer |WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Ministry of magic 
Scott Boyle 
campus ministry 

i really loved magic when i was lit­tle. i wore the same wizard costume every year for halloween, asked for magicians to perform at my birthday parties and made sure to record all five parts of the two-hour-long spe­cials of “world’s greatest magic.” The great majority of my time, however, was spent performing magic tricks. i would buy all sorts of illusions: trick decks, vanishing pennies, magic coloring books and the like. i would then rush home to perform the tricks for the only audience i had — my brothers. 
but my brothers were never mysti­fied by magic. if they couldn’t figure out an illusion, they would do ev­erything in their power to discover how i had done it. They would not rest until they could proudly pro­claim each illusion’s secret. sadly, as i grew older, i began to grow tired of my brothers’ insistence on explana­tions. eventually, the illusions that had once captured my heart also lost their magic over me. i boxed up all the magic gear i had and put it in my closet. 
For a long time, i thought i had giv­en up on magic. it took a classroom and a humble professor to help me to begin to see that magic is much more than illusions performed by magi­cians in las vegas or at my house for birthday parties. 
i first walked into professor david Fagerberg’s class on g.K. chesterton during the spring semester of my junior year. The semester before, a friend had used the words “transfor­mational” and “class” when describ­ing professor Fagerberg’s teaching. so, the very next day, i bundled up, braved the blistery cold and found myself in the Theology office sign­ing up for his course. and in the two subsequent semesters, i found myself back in the Theology office, register­ing my name under his. 
i’ve never had (and perhaps will never again have) a professor quite like him. he taught classes of rough­ly 70 or so students by himself. he never had a Ta; he preferred to grade everyone’s papers and exams him­self. it wouldn’t fit with his teaching style, since he always made it clear that he learned from us, too. 
but he was always more than a professor to me. For me, he was the gatekeeper into g.K. chesterton’s england and c.s. lewis’ narnia. his thought and reflection guided me not just to an understanding of their work, but to an understanding of their imaginations and hearts. spending time playing in their worlds caused me to reexamine mine. 
professor Fagerberg’s analysis of chesterton and lewis taught me that perhaps the heart and the imagina­tion are linked and that the imagi­nation is the way to the heart. anais nin wrote, “it is the function of art to renew our perception. what we are familiar with we cease to see. The writer shakes up the familiar scene, and, as if by magic, we see a new meaning in it.” 
using writers like chesterton and lewis, professor Fagerberg reminded me of the magic of wonder, that the most extraordinary of things can be seen in the most ordinary of mo­ments. he reminded me that a child­like imagination can take you places and help you see things you never thought possible. 
For c.s. lewis, it opened portals to magical worlds like narnia. For me, it allowed me to see that magic ex­isted in my world, too. 
g. K. chesterton reminds us: “man cannot love mortal things. he can only love immortal things for an instant.” he consistently reminds us that all of our experiences are magical because they remind us of a greater reality. They are tastes of heaven, realities that do not fully ex­ist in the future, but realities that are beginning to be experienced now. 

in my eyes, professor Fagerberg’s greatest lesson came last year on holy Thursday. he cited margery williams’ “The velveteen rabbit” and reminded us of the power of love: 
“‘what is real?’ asked the rabbit one day. “does it mean having things that buzz inside you and a stick-out handle?’ 
‘real isn’t how you are made,’ said the skin horse. ‘it’s a thing that hap­pens to you. when a child loves you for a long, long time, not just to play with, but really loves you, then you become real… and once you are real you can’t be made unreal again. it lasts for always.’” 
and, as if by magic, it all finally clicked for me. we are the ones who have been loved for a “long, long time,” for eternity, by god. and every day he stepped into the classroom, professor Fagerberg reminded me and his other students of this truth. and i got the feeling that’s how he felt about us too. and that was the greatest magic of all. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

weigh nuclear energy as an alternative 
Hayden Lewis 
The maneater 

every day, the united states alone re­leases more than 19 billion tons of green­house gas emissions into the atmosphere. This fact and the unprecedented danger it poses to society inarguably need to be addressed. 
For those who recognize our harrow­ing environmental circumstance and are compelled to heed to the call of sustain­ability (as we all should), there are means of action. low-carbon alternatives to conventional consumer goods are becom­ing ubiquitous, and there is an incipient cultural shift toward more sustainable lifestyles that will surely play a prominent role in the future. 
but we can only go so far in our individ­ual efforts. we must not neglect the need for large-scale, government-run operations to assuage our addiction to fossil fuels. it is for precisely this reason we all must aban­don our naive fears of nuclear energy and embrace nuclear power for what it really is: a safe, convenient and efficient source of energy that must be utilized if we are to seriously combat our climate crisis. 
in any pragmatic examination of energy policy, there are three key terms that must first be established: baseload, footprint and portfolio. 
gwyneth cravens, an environmental activist and former new yorker editor, ex­plains baseload most concisely in her 2007 book, power to save the world: The Truth about nuclear energy. cravens describes baseload as “the minimum amount of proven, consistent, around-the-clock pow­er that utilities must supply to meet the demands of their millions of consumers.” 
grid power, the energy required to fuel our growing cities and booming urbanized populations, requires baseload as its foun­dation. so far in the u.s., baseload comes from fossil fuels (68 percent), renewable energy (13 percent) and nuclear power (19 percent). wind and solar, however desir­able, cannot currently provide baseload power, but future innovations in energy storage could update their potential. until then, considering hydroelectricity’s myri­ad inconveniences, nuclear energy proves to be the most viable energy source to meet our baseload needs. 
Footprint is the physical efficiency of a given utility. For example, to produce 1,000 megawatts of energy, a wind farm would have to cover 200 square miles, and a solar array would require 50 square miles. in comparison, a nuclear power plant would take up only one-third of a square mile to obtain the same amount of power. 
beyond its spacial capabilities, nuclear waste is miniscule in size. a person’s entire lifetime’s worth of electricity, strictly from nuclear energy, amounts to waste roughly the size of a coke can. From there, nuclear waste goes into dry cask storage, where it is kept in a small area and is monitored and controlled. 
in comparison, a person using strictly coal produces 77 tons of carbon dioxide in a lifetime. it is then released into our plan­et’s atmosphere, contributing to a climate crisis that threatens our very existence. 
nuclear meltdown incidents are al­ways a possibility but are rare. however, the safety of nuclear power plants has advanced dramatically since the cases of Three mile island and chernobyl. in fact, the cause of last year’s Fukushima daiichi disaster had more to do with negligent geo­graphical placement than anything else. 

The last essential term in understanding nuclear energy’s importance is portfolio, which refers to the fact climate change is such a serious matter that we have to do everything, simultaneously, to combat it. 
nuclear energy is no be-all cure, and it certainly has its risks, but they are minis­cule compared to the climate chaos that will ensue if we do not reform our current energy policies. at the very least, we should embrace nuclear energy as a temporary alternative to fossil fuels while the transi­tion to a more renewable-based energy economy is being developed. 
in any case, nuclear energy’s undeserved stigma is something that will simply have to evaporate as climate change becomes more readily apparent and accepted. let’s just hope that by then, it’s not too late. 
This column originally ran in the Oct. 9 issue of The Maneater, serving the University of Missouri. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By LIZZY SCHROFF 
scene writer 

welcome to baltimore, home of the ravens, duff goldman from “ace of cakes” (why did they have to cancel that show?) and old bay season­ing — our first stop on our music map journey. charm city is home to a vibrant indie music scene; the trending baltimore music world is char­acterized by an experimental, psychedelic folk style. There are numer­ous bands that fall into this far-reaching category, many of which are primarily locally known. i want to highlight several that really stand out from the crowd. 
First, i’m going to be a little biased and talk about my favorites. beach house was my summer love story. no, this is not some really bad pun. i first heard “norway,” from beach house’s album “Teen dream,” when i was home in arnold, md., over last winter break. For some reason, i didn’t look much into their music until their most recent album “bloom” was released in may of this year. From the moment i listened to “myth,” i knew it was meant to be. beach house’s dream-pop style draws you in and envelops you in an atmospheric, ethereal music world. The duo is composed of alto singer/keyboardist victoria legrand and guitarist/ keyboardist alex scally. They have released four full-length studio al­bums since their formation in 2005 and are currently on tour to pro­mote “bloom.” if you love reverberating guitar lines, synth keyboards and otherworldly effects, then beach house is the band for you. but re­ally, you should listen to them. like, right now. 
i am an ardent radio lover. some may call me outdated (just like my obsession with buying cds — i tell you, one day my cd collection will be worth something), but i have discovered more great music on the radio than through any other medium. annapolis, md.-based station 
103.1 wrnr is radio music gold. it doesn’t play songs to death, it throws in a healthy mix of classics like u2 and r.e.m. and it features local and indie music regularly. wye oak is another baltimore-based indie band that i got hooked on after hearing their track “For prayer” on wrnr. The band is named after an iconic 460 year-old oak tree in wye mills, md. (sadly, the massive tree was destroyed by a thunderstorm in 2002.) wye oak is comprised of singer/guitarist Jenn wasner and drummer/ keyboardist andy stacks (who, interestingly, plays the drums with only his right hand and foot, and the bass line on a keyboard with his left hand). Formed in 2006, the band has three albums and an ep under their belt. Though classified as an indie-rock band, they have touches of a little bit of everything — folk, nu-gaze and dream pop. wasner’s mesmerizing vocals and the introspective lyrics are enchanting, and it isn’t long before you’ve realized that you just listened to every song in their repertoire when tuning in on spotify. 
other local names to check out include lower dens. The group is a “freak folk” band composed of singer Jana hunter, guitarist will adams, bassist geoff graham, drummer nate nelson and keyboard­ist/guitarist carter Tanton. They released their sophomore album “nootropics” this year, featuring more experimental effects than their debut “Twin-hand movement.” Their songs have an echo-y quality that rings throughout and give the listener the feeling of experiencing their albums in an acoustic concert hall. 
cass mccombs, though not originally from maryland, finally settled down in baltimore after a period of drifting throughout the united states. his style incorporates qualities of folk, featuring acoustic gui­tars and prominent bass, weaved with moody keyboard lines. 
if you are looking for good, solid, pure, no-frills indie rock, look no further than The seldon plan. The band’s founding members are sing-er/guitarist/keyboardist michael nestor and bassist david hirner, with Frank corl and chris ehrich joining the group for their most recent al­bum, 2011’s “coalizione del volere.” 
and no one can forget animal collective, whose 2009 album “merriweather post pavilion” (an outdoor concert venue in columbia, md.) inspired a fellow scene writer’s excellent article, “music For everyday.” avey Tare, panda bear, deakin and geologist make up this highly experimental, psychedelic band that seamlessly weaves pene­trating synths, melodic harmonies and intense drumbeats that makes any album listening session an experience in itself. 
you will soon notice that a counting crows song is included on the playlist below. yes, i know that counting crows is not an indie band but my reasoning is as follows: 1) The song is called “raining in baltimore.” self-explanatory. 2) adam duritz is from baltimore. he writes some of those most enigmatic, thought-provoking and painfully beautiful lyr­ics that i would give my right kidney to be able to come up with. Thus, the song had to have a spot on the list. 
That concludes our stop on the music map. if you ever actually find yourself in charm city, make sure to fill up on some maryland blue crabs, perhaps catch an orioles game, swing by ram’s head live or visit merriweather post pavilion for a baltimorean concert experience. 
Contact Lizzy Schroff at eschro01@saintmarys.edu 


JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 
The observer |WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Thursday, October 18 
By COURTNEY COX 

if you’re not feeling club Fever on the Thursday of fall break, it may be time to give south bend’s hottest Fall break is rapidly approaching, and an entire week 
associate scene editor 

jazz club a try. Trio’s, located on michigan st., will play of sheer, classless bliss lies just beyond that last mid-
host to the william cole Quartet as they perform r&b term. For anyone staying in south bend for the week, 
and smooth jazz classics. it might just inspire a whole it’s the perfect opportunity to leave the familiar path 
new classy side you never knew you had. if you’re not and try out some of the city’s less frequented haunts. 
into jazz in particular, the restaurant is still great for let this calendar serve as your guide as you brave the 
american cuisine with a cajun twist. uncharted territory of south bend’s cultural offerings. 
Friday, October 19 Friday, October 12 
The south bend center for history may not seem like get your scream on at the niles haunted house 
the most happening place to be on a Friday night, but scream park. its main feature is a “maniac maze” that 
oct. 19, they are putting on something most often seen tests the courage of even the most experienced thrill-
on sitcoms and reality shows: a murder mystery party. seekers. They also have a mile-long haunted hayride 
costumed performers will lead guests around as they and, of course, the all-important haunted house. 
try to figure out just who killed mr. corpus at his own birthday party. 
Saturday, October 13 

while this break is the perfect time to get off cam-
as saturday rolls around, friends will be returning pus, this is the one day you won’t want to leave. come 
and the campus will spring back to life, but that doesn’t early for the filming of “college gameday” with your mean south bend’s cultural offerings need to fade biggest sign, most outrageous notre dame gear and Monday, October 15 into the past. check out sites like inthebend.com and all the spirit you can muster. Then plan on sticking we all know south bend is heavily influenced by downtownsouthbend.com for events that are going on around for tailgating and touchdowns. the irish, and it’s not just notre dame football that’s in the area at any given time. 
responsible. celebrate the irish culture away from the Sunday, October 14 field and check out a celtic music session at Fiddler’s Contact Courtney Cox at 
check out “peter pan” at the historic lerner Theatre hearth. led by Kim hoffman, the host of wsbn’s “The ccox3@nd.edu in elkhart. not only is it a great opportunity to see one celtic hour,” this night promises to be a great time full of the most charming children’s stories come to life, it’s of irish culture and celebration. also a great opportunity to see the theater at its finest. make a night of it and head to dinner at 523 Tap & grill Tuesday, October 16 on main street in elkhart before the show. anyone with a passion for art or baseball needs to 
check out the south bend museum of art and its new exhibit titled “we are the ship: the story of negro league baseball.” The exhibit explores representations of african-american baseball players through original paintings. The museum also has plenty of permanent galleries and art classes, including landscape painting, jewelry and ceramic instruction. 
Wednesday, October 17 
visit the potawatomi Zoo for a little animal diversity beyond the fat squirrels seen on campus. The zoo fea­tures an australian walkabout, a red panda Forest, a lion exhibit and a monkey exhibit. This is the perfect time to see the animals before it gets too cold in the winter, and it’s a surefire way to make you feel like a kid again. 




JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

best rules in sports 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
in sports — and society in gen­eral — rules tend to get a bad rap. we see them as barriers, borders setting definite limits on the fun we are legally allowed to have. but just consider the chaos, loot­ing, and anarchy that would en­sue if our society was lawless, and it’s clear that we need a little pie crust to enjoy our pie, am i right? 
sports are the same way. nothing grinds our gears like a decisive penalty, and nothing is less sexy than a football game ending in a ten-second runoff. but as we found out through the replacement referee fiasco, the guys in stripes are generally pret­ty good at their jobs, and playing the games without well-applied rules can be ruinous to a league. 
so in honor of ed hochuli and friends returning to the sidelines, here are the five greatest rules in all of sports: 
5. Football 
“after a ball travels 10 yards on a kickoff, it can be recovered by the kicking team.” 
ah, the onside kick. it seems like a goofy gimmick that rarely works, but the fact that it can be done is enough to include it here. 
as anyone who has played interhall football can tell you, without the onside kick, a lead of 10 with five minutes to play is basically insurmountable. but the onside kick keeps games alive longer, which leads to fewer kneel-downs and more two-min­ute drives and miracle field goals. 
if nothing else, it lets fans keep dreaming of a comeback for as long as possible, as eras­ing a 20-point deficit is just three scores and two onside kicks away. 
and when it does work, it’s only resulted in some of the greatest finishes in nFl history. This one’s a keeper. 
4. NASCAR 
“if a race finishes under cau­tion, the cars will stay on the track and the race will be de­cided by a green-white-checker overtime.” 
lots of people hate nascar — and probably skipped over this paragraph — because apparently cars flying around corners at 200 miles per hour with less than six inches between them is boring. i just so happen to disagree. 
but you know what everyone thinks is boring? The same thing, but at 50 miles per hour, and with no passing allowed. That just sucks. but that’s how a large percentage of races ended back in the day, as the winner cruised to the finish under caution. 
in 2004, nascar wised up, and had cars line up again after the track was cleared, racing in a winner-take-all two-lap overtime. 
The result? awesomeness. 
drivers make their moves right away, and desperate passes and awesome wrecks ensue. since the rule change, cars have crossed the finish line sliding on their hoods, the fans have left happy, and the best driver has taken the checkered flag — as god and six-pound, eight-ounce baby Jesus intended. 
3. Tennis 
“a player can challenge an official’s call on the hawkeye system, with three unsuccessful challenges allowed per set.” 
Fans hate bad calls. players hate bad calls. everyone does. but replays take too long, and still de­pend on the angles captured by Tv cameras. so what do you do? 
well, if you’re tennis, you invent an all-knowing, instantaneous replay system that tells you where the ball landed down to the last fuzzy green thread. This has given tennis instant credibility, and has made it a much more watchable sport in the television era. 
it’s probably only a matter of time until other sports follow ten­nis’s lead and embrace technol­ogy, as well (soccer, we’re looking at you.). 
2. Lacrosse 
“if a shot goes out of bounds, possession will be given to the team that was closest to the ball as it went out of play.” 
There’s nothing better in sports than a good hustle play. This rule provides a reward for those going all-out, and it’s a win-win situation. 
most of the time, the offense has a player backing up the play behind the goal, so teams can feel free to shoot and get the ball back easily if they miss. This extends possessions and increases scor­ing, which makes fans happy. 
occasionally though, if a ball is trickling across the boundary or an attackman isn’t backing up a shot, you’ll get a furious footrace between offense and defense, with players diving towards the endline as the ball leaves the field of play. 
and watching a goalie stand tall in the net, see a shot start to sail wide, and take off into a superman dive behind the goal to end a possession? That’s about as exciting as a turnover can get. 
1. Hockey 
“a player charged with high sticking will receive a two-minute penalty. unless they draw blood: then it’s four minutes.” 
This. not only has this rule led to hilarious instances of 6-foot-6 enforcers arguing over what con­stitutes blood, it perfectly reflects the gritty, tough-guy culture of the nhl. 
and this is the league that’s locking itself out for the second time in eight years? 
man, there needs to be some kind of rule against that. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Goodell upholds Saints’ players suspensions 
Associated Press 
new orleans — nFl commissioner roger goodell upheld the suspensions of Jonathan vilma and will smith on Tuesday for their role in the new orleans saints bounty scandal and reduced penalties for scott Fujita and anthony hargrove. 
Though an appeal panel creat­ed by the nFl’s labor agreement vacated the original suspensions on technical grounds, goodell ruled he was sticking with his decision to suspend vilma for the season and smith for four games. 
hargrove, a free agent defen­sive lineman, will face a two-game suspension once he signs with a team. he originally was hit with eight games, but that was reduced to seven with five games already served. Fujita, who plays for cleveland, will now miss only one game instead of three. 
despite goodell’s new rulings, the seven-month old bounty saga is not over. 
vilma offered a response on Twitter, that read, in part, “this is not news to me pride won’t let him admit he’s wrong.” smith is­sued a statement saying he will continue to explore his appeal options. 
The players were implicated in what the nFl said was a bounty pool run by former saints defen­sive coordinator gregg williams and paid improper cash bonuses for hits that injured opponents. The players have acknowledged a pool but denied they intended to injure anyone. 
The players can delay their suspensions by appealing again 

FOR SALE 
$80,900 Just minutes to ND. Country Village Townhome in Georgetown. 18145 Crownhill Dr. Excellent condition. All appli­ances &amp;amp; washer/dryer, open floor plan, living room w/ cathedral ceiling to loft/den or pos­sible 2nd bedroom. Large 17 x 14 master, 1.5 baths, fireplace, secu­rity system. 1-car attached garage w/opener, corner lot. 574-532-5961 
WANTED 
Math-Tutors Mathnasium seek­ing qualified math tutors. Experience working with children. 10-20hrs/week. Re sumes :granger @math ­nasium.com 888-850-6284 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-appt earnparttime.com 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT 
Football  Rental.  Available  BYU  
and  Stanford.  1BR  Varsity  
Club.  Call  847-602-8170  

Céad Mile Fáilte B+B for ND/SMC parents by ND parents 10min. from campus 2nts. min. 1-574-272-5640 
Rent Knute Rockne’s home for foot­ball weekends. 2 blocks from campus. Sleeps 8-10. Contact rentlikeacham­pion.com today! 


through their labor contract, which they have three days to do. They could also ask a fed­eral judge in new orleans to revisit their earlier request for an injunction blocking the suspensions. 
still, goodell upheld parts, or all of the players’ suspensions. 
“The quality, specificity and scope of the evidence support­ing the findings of conduct det­rimental (to the game) are far greater and more extensive than ordinarily available in such cas­es,” goodell said in a memoran­dum to the 32 clubs. 
goodell’s new ruling comes about a month after an appeal panel vacated the original sus­pensions on technical grounds during week 1 of the regular sea­son. The panel did not address the merits of the league’s inves­tigation. it merely asked goodell to clarify to extent to which his ruling involved conduct detri­mental to the league, which he has the sole authority to handle, and salary cap violations result­ing from bonus payments, which would have to be ruled upon by an arbitrator other than the commissioner. 
“in my recent meetings with the players and their counsel, the players addressed the al­legations and had an oppor­tunity to tell their side of the story,” goodell wrote. “in those meetings, the players confirmed many of the key facts disclosed in our investigation, most par­ticularly that the program of­fered cash rewards for ‘cart-offs,’ that players were encouraged to ‘crank up the John deere tractor’ and have their opponents carted off the field, and that rewards were offered and paid for plays that resulted in opposing players having to leave the field of play.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 
Lou Holtz Quotes 
“Life is ten percent what happens to you and 90 percent how you respond to it.” 
“When all is said and done, more is said than done.” 
“I think everyone should experience defeat at least once during their ca­reer. You learn a lot from it.” 



NCAA FOOTBALL 

Sandusky faces 30-year sentence 
Associated Press 
belleFonTe, pa. — in what sounded at times like a locker room pep talk, Jerry sandusky rambled in his red prison suit about being the underdog in the fourth quar­ter, about forgiveness, about dogs and about the movie “seabiscuit.” 
with his accusers seated behind him in the court­room, he denied committing “disgusting acts” against children and instead painted himself as the victim. 
and then, after he had said his piece, a judge sentenced him to 30 to 60 years in pris­on Tuesday, all but ensuring the 68-year-old sandusky will spend the rest of his life be­hind bars for the child sexual abuse scandal that brought disgrace to penn state and triggered the downfall of his former boss, football coach Joe paterno. 
he leaves behind a trail of human and legal wreckage that could take years for the university to clear away. 
“The tragedy of this crime is that it’s a story of betrayal. The most obvious aspect is your betrayal of 10 children,” Judge John cleland said after a hearing in which three of the men sandusky was con­victed of molesting as boys confronted him face to face and told of the lasting pain he had inflicted. 
The judge said he expects sandusky to die in prison. 
in a disjointed, 15-minute address before he learned his sentence, sandusky said: “in my heart i did not do these alleged disgusting acts.” 
sprinkling his remarks with sports references, the former assistant coach spoke of be­ing locked up in a jail cell, subjected to outbursts from fellow inmates, reading in­spirational books and trying to find a purpose in his fate. his voice cracked as he talked about missing his loved ones, including his wife, dottie, who was in the gallery. 
“hopefully we can get bet­ter as a result of our hardship and suffering, that some­how, some way, something good will come out of this,” sandusky said. 
he also spoke of instances in which he helped children and did good works in the community, adding: “i’ve for­given, i’ve been forgiven. i’ve comforted others, i’ve been comforted. i’ve been kissed by dogs, i’ve been bit by dogs. i’ve conformed, i’ve also been different. i’ve been me. i’ve been loved, i’ve been hated.” 
sandusky was convicted in June of 45 counts, found guilty of raping or fondling boys he had met through the acclaimed youth charity he founded, The second mile. he plans to appeal, arguing among other things that his spoke in court Tuesday was a young man who said he was 11 when sandusky groped him in a shower in 1998. he said sandusky is in denial and should “stop coming up with excuses.” 
“i’ve been left with deep painful wounds that you caused and had been buried in the garden of my heart for many years,” he said. 
another man said he was 13 in 2001 when sandusky lured him into a penn state sauna and then a shower and forced him to touch the ex-coach. “i am troubled with flashbacks of his naked body, something that will never be erased from my memory,” he said. 
after the sentencing, prosecutor Joe mcgettigan praised the victims’ courage and dismissed sandusky’s comments as “a master­piece of banal self-delusion, completely untethered from reality and without any ac­ceptance of responsibility.” 
“it was entirely self-focused as if he, again, were the vic­tim,” mcgettigan said. 
lawyers for the victims said they were satisfied with the sentence, but with four 
“I’ve forgiven, I’ve been forgiven. I’ve comforted others, I’ve been comforted. I’ve been kissed by dogs, I’ve been bit by dogs. I’ve conformed, I’ve also been different. I’ve been me. I’ve been loved, I’ve been hated.” 
Jerry Sandusky 
former Penn State defensive coordinator 
defense was not given enough lawsuits brought against 
time to prepare for trial after penn state and several more 
his arrest last november. expected, and penn state la-among the victims who boring under severe ncaa penalties, cleaning up in the wake of what may be the big­gest scandal in college sports history may take years. 
ben andreozzi, an attorney for one the victims, said the university needs to do more: “it’s important they under­stand before we get into seri­ous discussions about money, that there are other, noneco­nomic issues. we need apol­ogies. we need changes in policy. This isn’t just about money.” 
penn state fired paterno after sandusky’s arrest, and the coach died of lung can­cer three months later. The scandal also brought down university president graham spanier. 
Two university adminis­trators, gary schultz and Tim curley, are awaiting trial in January on charges they failed to properly report 



paid adverTisemenT 

suspicions about sandusky and lied to the grand jury that investigated him. 
over the summer, an in­vestigation commissioned by penn state and led by for­mer Fbi director louis Freeh concluded that paterno and other top officials covered up allegations against sandusky for more than a decade to avoid bad publicity. 
after the report came out, the ncaa fined penn state a record $60 million, barred the football team from post­season play for four years, cut the number of scholarships it can award, and erased 14 years of victories for paterno, stripping him of his standing as the winningest coach in the history of big-time col­lege football. 
in a three-minute record­ed statement aired monday night by penn state radio, sandusky described him­self as the victim of a “well­orchestrated effort” by his accusers, the media, penn state, plaintiffs’ attorneys and others — a claim the judge dismissed on Tuesday as an unbelievable conspira­cy theory. 
“i speak today with hope in my heart for a brighter day, not knowing if that day will come,” sandusky said. “many moments have been spent looking for a purpose. maybe it will help others, some vulnerable children who might have been abused, might not be, as a result of the publicity.” 
after the sentencing, penn state president rodney erickson said in a statement: “our thoughts today, as they have been for the last year, go out to the victims of Jerry sandusky’s abuse. while to­day’s sentence cannot erase what has happened, hopeful­ly it will provide comfort to those affected by these hor­rible events.” 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

weasels continue undefeated season 
By RICH HIDY 
sports writer 
in a game that was tight until the final quarter, pasquerilla west rode a stifling defense to defeat breen-phillips 19-0 on Tuesday night. 
pasquerilla west’s option at­tack helped the team find the end zone on a one-yard run up the middle to start the scor­ing. The score was set up by a circus catch on a deep throw from sophomore quarterback lauren vidal to senior receiver alice yerokun. 
The purple weasels (5-0) led 6-0 until the fourth quar­ter, as the babes (1-3) could not mount an offensive attack against the pasquerilla west defense. early in the fourth quarter the purple weasels broke the game open. after a methodical drive, vidal tossed a touchdown pass to put pasquerilla west up 13-0. 
pasquerilla west senior cap­tain meaghan schmitt said she was pleased with the perfor­mance of the offense despite some trying conditions. 
“i think we did well but for some reason we usually play better on turf,” schmitt said. “our offense connected even though the wind was pretty bad and the passing game looked good.” 
The pasquerilla west defense came up with two intercep­tions, the second of which end­ed breen-phillips’ hope late in the fourth quarter. instead of running out the clock, the purple weasels tacked on an­other touchdown to take a commanding 19-0 lead with less than a minute remaining,. despite the loss, the babes are keeping a positive attitude. 
“we played really well and [pasquerilla west] is known for having a great team,” ju­nior captain molly Toner said. “even though they ran up the score at the end, we had a good chance to win.” 
pasquerilla west squares off against lyons on oct. 28, while breen-phillips plays howard on the same day. 
Contact Rich Hidy at rhidy@nd.edu 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

saint mary’s looks to rebound 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
after competing in a tough field at the gibson Family pre­national meet last weekend, saint mary’s will travel to winneconne, wisc., on saturday to compete in the uw-oshkosh brooks invitational. 
The belles finished 22nd in a field of 30 teams last saturday at the gibson Family pre-national meet, held at the lavern gibson championship course in Terre haute, ind. Junior Jessica biek re­corded the top time for the belles, finishing 105th overall in a field of more than 320 runners with a time of 22:24.0. seniors emma baker and elizabeth majewski rounded out the top three for saint mary’s, as baker finished in 134th with a time of 24:47.4 and majewski came in two spots behind her with a final mark of 24:49.6. 
majewski said the close fin­ishes at the top reflect the team-oriented nature of the belles. 
“we push each other to reach our individual and group goals,” majewski said. “we all have worked together very well this season, and i think this has con­tributed to our successful races.” 
This week, saint mary’s will turn its attention to the uw­oshkosh brooks invitational, the team’s final tune-up before the miaa championships on oct. 27. The meet, held at the same course that hosted last year’s division iii cross country championships, will feature 35 teams from across the nation. last year’s invitation­al champion was washington university in saint louis, who subsequently returned to the course a month later to capture the division iii national champi­onship. despite the tough field, majewski said the invitational would serve as good preparation for the upcoming conference championships. 
“These teams will push us to run fast races and hopefully shave off the seconds needed to run very competitive races at our final races of the season,” majewski said. 
additionally, majewski said saint mary’s needs to focus on being mentally strong in order to record some higher finishes. 
“we need to remain tough and competitive, passing as many runners from other teams as pos­sible,” she said. 
saint mary’s will compete in the uw-oshkosh brooks invitational on saturday at 12:15 
p.m. at lake breeze golf club in winneconne, wisc. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles reach for postseason 
By NICK BOYLE 
sports writer 
saint mary’s hosts confer­ence foe albion tonight in an at­tempt to keep pace in the miaa as conference play approaches its final stretch. 
a win for the belles (10-9, 5-4 miaa) would put them in a tie for third place in the confer­ence, which is good enough to qualify for the miaa confer­ence tournament at season’s end. 
belles head coach Toni Kuschel knows her team must come out focused against their conference rival, Kuschel said. 
“we want to go into tomorrow night and play a tough match,” Kuschel said. “They have a great middle so it will be important to come out strong and serv­ing tough to put the pressure on them.” 
Though albion (2-18, 0-11) has yet to win a conference game this year, saint mary’s cannot underestimate its oppo­nent, Kuschel said.  she expects her team to have to deal with a very tough opponent in albion. 
“we expect albion to come out strong,” Kuschel said. “They have won a lot of sets this sea­son against some tough con­ference teams. we will need to play at a high level in order to get the win.” 
with conference play hitting its final stretch, Kuschel knows her the team can’t afford to fall behind in the race. a top-four finish in the conference would guarantee the belles their first shot in the miaa conference tournament. 
“Tonight’s game is very im­portant for us, as a win would put us in a solid third or fourth place position in the confer­ence,” Kuschel said. 
along with the important game, tonight will serve as the belles’ “crush for the cure” night, a fundraiser toward find­ing the cure for lymphoma. 
“Tonight will also be a big match for us as it is our ‘crush for the cure’ night,” Kuschel said. “The team will be raising funds for a saint mary’s alum­na anne blair payne‘ [class of 2002] in her courageous battle 
paid adverTisemenT 
against lymphoma. we hope that you will all come and wear white to our match in support of anne.” 
The night holds a special place in the belles hearts as they look to support payne. 
“it’s not every day that you get to play for more than just your team,” Kuschel said. “we get a change to play for a greater good. Tonight is in support of anne and her courageous battle with lymphoma. we are hoping that our crush night will bring in funds to help support her and her battle to crush her cancer.” 
saint mary’s hopes to de­feat albion and support cancer awareness tonight at 7 p.m. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





MEN’S GOLF | FighTing irish gridiron golF classic 
Despite strong final round, Irish place poorly 
“Today we had the low round competitors on the day. platt’s 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 

sports writer with about three holes to go of performance came after a first-all the teams, and going into round 75 and a second-round 
sunshine accompanied the tournament i thought we team-high score of 80. strong winds on the final day would have a chance to com-“niall, to have a really tough of the Fighting irish gridiron pete here and a chance to win round yesterday, to put it be-golf classic on Tuesday after but we got off to a really tough hind him to shoot 70, i don’t the tournament’s start was start,” irish coach Jim Kubinski know that there were any play-plagued by rain. notre dame’s said. ers in the field … who broke 70 performance was cause for a despite finishing in the today, but 70 was a tremendous brighter outlook for irish sup-bottom half of the field, the round,” Kubinski said. “it just porters as well, as the irish irish progressed significantly shows you when you can put turned in their lowest score of throughout the tournament, [yesterday] behind you and the event to climb out of last Kubinski said. come back and play great, i place. “but talk about the notre thought that was awesome.” 
notre dame used a final-dame spirit, the boys really senior paul mcnamara and day score of 290 to move out of played hard,” he said. “we junior andrew lane led the its position tied for 11th place ended up with the second low irish in scoring over the three-and into eighth place. notre round of the day and i think day stretch, finishing tied for dame finished 16 strokes that really showed a lot from 15th with a score of 219 and back of champion michigan these guys because they didn’t tied for 26th at 221, respec­state (17-over-par), a defi-get down on themselves, they tively. mcnamara iii turned in cit largely attributable to the didn’t hang their heads, they a round of 72 on Tuesday while team’s opening two rounds. just kept playing. and they got lane finished with a 73 after houston and north carolina-a little better each day and re-registering several bogeys in wilmington finished tied for ally played a great one today. the closing holes. second at 18-over. The irish The funny thing is today was “i thought paul’s round to-shot 300 on sunday and 295 the toughest condition of the day was really, really solid,” on monday before turning in tournament. The wind was re-Kubinski said. “andrew lane the second-lowest round of the ally going to 25 or 30 miles per is one i would touch on as well. so close to going low and being having salvaged what be-day Tuesday. They finished 33 hour at times … it was hard every round he has played for a top, top guy.” gan as a nightmare on their strokes over par for the event but our boys really battled and us has been between 72 and irish junior andrew carreon home course, the irish will with a three-day score of 885. other than a couple of bogeys 75. nothing high and he is so finished tied for 15th with return to action with the earl 
The irish settled in nicely on at the end they played super.” close to going low. he was one-his score of 219 — even with yestingsmeier invitational in the final day of action, provid-irish junior niall platt led under with two to go so he has mcnamara as the best per-muncie, ind., on oct. 15 and 16. ing their coach with a glimpse the irish on the closing day just played so consistently, i’m formance for the irish — after of what he said he had expect-by shooting a round of 70, the proud of him. This is his first shooting three consecutive Contact Joseph Monardo at ed to see throughout the event. lowest score registered by all season in the lineup and he is rounds of 73 as an individual. jmonardo@nd.edu 

SMC GOLF 

Belles hope to finish season well 
By BRENDAN BELL 
sports writer 
coming off its first win of miaa conference play this fall, saint mary’s will go into the final two rounds of miaa play looking to move up the leaderboard and make a run at first place in the fall conference standings at the end of season Jamboree. 
The miaa end of season Jamboree is held at bedford valley golf club in augusta, mich. belles coach mark hamilton said the location will give saint mary’s a chance to perform well, as some of the more experienced golfers will be able to provide leadership for the golfers that have not seen the course before. 
“we play this course every year to wrap up the fall season, and two of the players in the top five have played it in the past so this will give us some experience go­ing in to Friday’s competition,” hamilton said. “The course is straightforward and very fair.” 
The belles have the luxury of a full week of practice without any competitions interrupting the middle of their week. This has al­lowed the belles to improve their overall games and tailor their practice to the course. 
“bedford has big greens slop­ing from back to front,” hamilton said. “and so we have been prac­ticing longer chip shots and downhill putts.  we have not been wavering too much from what we have been doing all season.” 
The belles currently stand in third place in the miaa, but are within striking distance of second-place hope and first-place olivet.  last saturday, saint mary’s won the fourth round of conference play and put itself in striking distance of its competi­tors. hamilton said as the belles begin to hit their stride at the end of the season, they have po­sitioned themselves well to close in on the two teams ahead of them. 
“we definitely want to get ahead of hope, and also make a push for first place,” hamilton said. “olivet has shown they are vulnerable and we are playing well at the right time.  we will go down swinging.” 
The belles will wrap up their fall golf schedule this Friday with the first golfers teeing off at 1 p.m. at bedford valley golf club in augusta, mich. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 

saint mary’s kicks off year with miaa relays 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
after a an eight-month respite, the belles will dive into their new season a week from Friday when they travel to grand rapids, mich., to compete in the miaa relays. 
The belles are looking to improve on last year’s sixth-place conference finish with a strong start at the first con­ference event of the year. 
“[The miaa relays] are al­ways kind of a fun meet to kick the season off,” belles coach mark benishek said. “it gets the girls an oppor­tunity to get in that meet at­mosphere and be able to get away from the normal prac­tice setting and get a good taste for what the meets are going to be, especially for the first year athletes. 
“it’s a great introduction for them to meet the rest of the conference, [and] see what’s currently out there. it’s also great precursor to our dual meet which is com­ing up the following week.” 
in preparation for the start of their season, the belles have been training for three weeks. in addition to swim­ming in the evening, the swimmers have also been improving their strength and conditioning out of the pool. 
“The girls have been prac­ticing quite well,” benishek said. “we just finished up our third week of practice last week. They have been doing double practices with strength and condition­ing and swimming in the evening. we’ve seen some great progress so far. There have been a lot of surpris­ing swims from the return­ing athletes as well as some of the freshmen. The team is coming together.” 
Five seniors highlight a belles roster that originates mostly from the midwest. with the experience of the seniors, the other swim­mers have been looking to the five seniors for guidance, benishek said. 
“The core, our five se­niors, that we have this year is strong leadership for our team,” benishek said. “[senior swimmers] liz palmer, Kristyn gerbeth, genevieve spittler, liz litke and ellie lofton are leading the pack here. i think ev­erybody looks up to them as they’re in their senior year here. i’m looking for them to do some great things.” 
like any team, the belles are looking improve their conference finish from last year. but because swim­ming is based on individual performances, benishek said the swimmers are also focused on setting new per­sonal bests. 
“you are always looking to raise the bar from previous years, not only individually, but also from a team aspect,” benishek said. “From a goal standpoint, i think we are definitely looking to im­prove in conference. you are always looking to compete with the top three. 
“individually, i want the girls is to break those per­sonal bests and shoot for those ncaa times.” 
The belles will kick off their season oct. 19 at the miaa relays in grand rapids, mich. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 



Clark 
conTinued From page 20 
game and tried to pull our­selves out. we dominated the second half.” 
in the second half notre dame led the shots 15-2. 
“i was happy with how we responded,” clark said. “we took it to them. it was a very strong second half perfor­mance, but unfortunately we had gotten too far behind in the first twenty minutes.” 
in a final effort in the last ten minutes, freshman for­ward patrick hodan earned his third goal of the season in the 85th minute. hodan took a shot from the top of the box and put the ball away follow­ing up on his own shot. 
“i was pleased with how we responded to being down ear­ly on,” clark said. “we made 
“We made a valiant effort to pull ourselves out of the hole. We had to take the good with the bad and move on.” 
Bobby Clark 
Irish coach 
a valiant effort to pull our­selves out of the hole. we have to take the good with the bad and move on.” 
This loss brings the irish away record to 2-3. clark said he does not believe the record is an issue. 
“it is more difficult on the road for every team,” clark said. “i do not see this as a problem for us.” 
The irish look to bounce back as they travel to south orange, n. J., on saturday to take on seton hall in a big east matchup. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

Golson 
conTinued From page 20 
effective.” 
Avoiding the noise 
while espn’s “college gameday” is grabbing all the headlines, notre dame will also be getting attention from other media outlets this weekend. 
espn’s “mike and mike in the morning” radio show, featuring mike greenberg and former irish football player mike golic, will air live Friday morning from the notre dame campus. nFl Films and nbc will be showing an hour-long feature at 2:30 p.m. saturday about notre dame’s matchups with michigan and miami. 
“i think each program i have had has presented different challenges, but i will go back to the process and keeping them focused on the process on a day-to-day ba­sis not only myself but all of our coaches,” Kelly said. 
Kelly said, however, the outside atten­tion will not affect the team. 
“well, i think i’m seasoned enough to know what noise is and how that affects 18- to 21-year-olds on a day-to-day basis 
paid adverTisemenT 



and the coaches,” Kelly said. “i think i’m consecutive games and now the detroit aware of it. The noise is there regard-newspaper was covering us, that was a lot less of whether you win or lose, it’s there of noise for us. it’s just on a larger scale, but constantly. it’s the same noise.” 
“i don’t think that’s different in terms of what i’ve tried to do week-to-week whether Contact Matthew DeFranks at i was at grand valley state and we won 24 mdefrank@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lennyrago & paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: brandon routh, 33; scott bakula, 58; Tony shalhoub, 59; sharon osbourne, 60. 
Happy Birthday:aggressive behavior will be your downfall. offer suggestions, but don’t take over. Focus more on what you can do to make personal improvements instead of trying to change those around you. a unique approach to the way you develop your talents will pay off. your numbers are 7, 9, 16, 22, 28, 33, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): mingle, take part in functions and network. indulge in projects geared toward using your creativity. change is in the stars, but you have to take the first step. make things happen and you will excel. a financial gain is apparent. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): personal problems will affect your work and pro­ductivity. Keep your personal and professional lives separate, and avoid making a rash decision that will alter the dynamics of your family and your household. protect and nurture what you have.. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t let disappointment slow you down. use your in­genuity and adaptability to move forward with or without the people you thought you could count on for help. get out, interact and make new friends. surround yourself with people who share your goals. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you can make a difference if you share your knowl­edge and experience with others. Friendship is on the rise, and the opportunity to get involved personally or professionally with someone who shares your concerns will lead to a relationship. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): size up your situation and prepare to take action or expect to be criticized for not doing your part. emotions will be close to the surface, and problems with older individuals or those you live with will develop if you aren’t patient. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): interacting with others will lead to new endeavors and friendships. what you learn now will help you make wiser choices regarding the people you associate with and the types of indulgences that tempt you. Talks will lead to romance and opportunities. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): emotional decisions will end up being costly. over­spending on something you don’t really need must be avoided. Focus on what you can learn from people who come from different backgrounds and you will find a way to get what you want. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you have to work diligently if you are going to maintain your position and be in the running to advance. don’t share your ideas or someone will surpass you and take credit for what you are trying to do. make home improvements.  


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): home improvements, a move or investments will all turn out well for you. There is money to be made, but also to lose if you don’t take what you receive and put it in a safe place. “easy come, easy go” will lead nowhere.. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t hesitate to answer questions. Keeping your thoughts out in the open will lead to better relationships with others and greater possibilities with regard to love, money and prospects for the future. consistency will be required.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll be at a loss if you let someone take control. be creative and find a way to call the shots when it comes to the way you want things done at home or with regard to finances. speak your mind compassionately. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): gains and losses are both prevalent. Think before you make a move that is costly. a love relationship may be exciting, but it mustn’t be allowed to put you into the poorhouse. make plans that don’t break the bank. 


Birthday Baby: you are entertaining and progressive. you are unpredictable and adaptable. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 
Running the show 

Five games into the season, Golson proves he can control a successful running game 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
Five games into the year, irish sophomore quarterback everett golson finally got to use his tools. 
golson, who leads the no. 7 irish into a matchup with no. 17 stanford, was unleashed in the ground game during notre dame’s 41-3 win over miami on saturday. The sophomore sig­nal-caller rushed for 51 yards on six carries, effectively executing the zone-read option. 
irish coach brian Kelly said the wrinkle was a new one for golson. 
“certainly it was the first time that we ran him and what i like that he did in the running game and showed progress other than running him was he went north and south,” Kelly said. “he wasn’t out there shaking and trying to make people miss, he put his foot in the ground and he went north and south.” 
golson, who was recruited as a dual-threat quarterback, came into the miami game with negative-11 yards rushing de­spite scoring two touchdowns on the ground. 

“we were just getting him out on the field and getting him playing and enjoying the ex­perience,” Kelly said. “we were just so focused on getting him on the field and giving him an opportunity to compete. That’s really what we were all thinking about.” 
golson, in addition to the zone-read, was also asked to run a two-minute drill at the end of the first half against miami. golson led the irish on a 6-play, 53-yard drive in 1:02 that set up notre dame for a field goal. sophomore kicker Kyle brindza missed a 34-yard attempt. 
in the 20-17 win over purdue, Kelly pulled golson for the last drive of the game and inserted 
junior  quarterback  Tommy  
rees.  Kelly  said  golson’s  
two-minute  drive  manage­ 

ment against miami was encouraging. 
“we thought he managed it fairly well, maybe too aggres­sively,” Kelly said. “he was ag­gressive, but i thought he made strides and being comfortable out there and really doing the right things necessary to be 
see golson PAGE 18 
MEN’S SOCCER 

slow start prevents irish victory in chicago 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
The no. 9 irish came up with too little, too late on of­fense, as no. 24 northwestern held onto its two-goal lead from the first half to upset the irish 2-1. 
notre dame (10-3-0, 2-2 big east) controlled the most of the game, irish coach bobby clark said, but the wildcats (8-2-2, 2-0 big Ten) took ad­vantage of their scoring op­portunities in the first half and scored in quick succes­sion in the 14th and 19th minutes. 
“The first 20 minutes we struggled,” clark said. “it took awhile for us to adjust and adapt. it was funny, [the goals] just seemed to sudden­ly happen. [northwestern] got behind us, got into the mid­dle and got shots on the goal. both of the goals were from seven to nine yards out.” 
clark said he does not know why the irish came off the blocks slow. 
“[The slow start] was not tactical and it was not personnel,” clark said. “i don’t know why we didn’t start well. it was really windy and it’s a FieldTurf field, and we didn’t get settled in.” 
northwestern’s first goal came off of a through ball in the box from wildcat se­nior midfielder chris ritter to freshman forward Joey calistri, who one-timed the ball past irish junior goal­keeper patrick wall. wall amassed two saves in the game, while northwestern sophomore goalkeeper Tyler miller had six. 
within five minutes the wildcats struck again. calistri this time provided the assist with a cross from the left side of the pitch to junior midfield­er lepe seetane, who nailed it home in the upper-left corner. 
overall, the irish more than doubled the shot production 
of  northwestern  21-9,  but  
were unable to connect.  
“[northwestern]  came  out  

aggressively and we dug our­selves a big hole,” clark said. “Then we got a grip on the 
see clarK PAGE 18 


JEAN-PIERRE VERTIL | The Observer 

Irish sophomore defender Max Lachowecki attacks the ball during Notre Dame’s 3-0 victory over       Georgetown on Saturday.The Irish lost 2-1 to Northwestern on Tuesday. 



