The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 48 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ElEctiON 2012 
Student voters consider faith 
Catholicism influences politics for many as they cast their ballots 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor 

before senior chris damien turned to news organiza­tions like cnn, Fox news or msnbc to inform his de­cisions for the election, he turned to another source — the united states conference of catholic bishops’ docu­ment “Forming consciences for Faithful citizenship.” 
For damien, life issues and policies about marriage are important political consid­erations this election day. but more importantly for the senior philosophy major is being an informed catholic voter on all the issues at stake in this election, not just one or two. 
“it’s very clear what the church teaches,” damien said. “it’s not a secret. it’s not hard to find. … and obvi­ously you’re not going to find someone who agrees with ev­erything the church teach­es. so it’s really important to look at what each candi­date has said or promoted in relation to the [catholic church’s] teachings and to make an informed decision. 

“being a lazy voter has never been a real part of the catholic sensibility.” 
damien is one notre dame student who is casting his ballot in this election. he is also one catholic who is cast­ing his ballot in this election. The overlap between politi­cal belief and faith comes to a poignant crossroads on a campus of a catholic uni­versity like notre dame, but students and professors considered that intersection to be a more personal and dynamic one today than it has been historically in the united states. 

A traditonal vote 
political science profes­sor david campbell said catholic voters tended to be democrats historically because they occupied a lower social class that did not find much support from republican candidates. 

“over the last 50 years or so, american catholics have lived the american dream in most cases,” campbell said. “a group that was once iso­lated to neighborhoods and was a blue collar population, we’ve seen catholics move to the suburbs and have white collar jobs.” 
political science professor darren davis agreed, calling the historical working class that tend to favor more lib­eral economic plays the “new deal coalition” of voters. 
see caTholic PAGE 5 



scholar lectures on law 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
days before americans head to vote for the next president of the united states, legal scholar akhil reed amar lectured Friday on the country’s constitution and its place as a national symbol. 
amar, who is also a sterling professor of law and political science at yale university, deliv­ered the inaugural potenziani constitutional law lecture on “constitutionalism and the pursuit of happiness” to law stu­dents last Friday. 
amar’s lecture discussed his re­cently published book, “america’s unwritten constitutionalism: The precedents and principles we live by.” The lecture aimed at understanding the constitution in its paper form as well as in its unwritten form. 
amar’s lecture first focused on the phrase “the pursuit of happi­ness,” then on the pursuit itself as 
see consTiTuTion PAGE 4 
ElEctiON 2012 



professors analyze election process 
By HANNAH ECKSTEIN 
news writer 

with election day on Tuesday, it’s nearly impossi­ble to leave the house without being exposed to some kind of campaign advertisement. 
The rooney center for american democracy hosted a panel discussion on Friday in carole sandner hall and invited political science pro­fessors darren davis, david campbell and geoffrey layman to speak about the upcoming election. The dis­cussion aimed to clarify any questions regarding the election process and prepare students and faculty alike to make informed decisions at the ballots. 
layman gave the audience a brief background of how the electoral system works. 
“The elections are not sim­ply national elections, but rather are 50 statewide elec­tions in combination with one election in washington 
d.c. for the electoral vote,” layman said. 
he noted the significance of this structure, remind­ing the audience of the 2000 presidential election, when 
see panel PAGE 5 



Fire at SMC contained 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s students, fac­ulty and staff were alerted early saturday morning of a fire in the basement of the moreau center for the arts in a theatre set storage area. 
saint mary’s security, as well as notre dame’s Fire department, received the cam­pus fire alarms simultaneously. 
gwen o’brien, director of media relations for the college, was quick to alert the media that the fire had been contained. 
“The notre dame Fire department arrived to moreau within just a couple of min­utes, with the south bend Fire department and clay Fire Territory responding to the alert as well,” o’brien said. “Firefighters are investigating the cause of the fire.” 

OE KENESEY | The Observer 
A fire truck sits outside the Moreau Center for the Arts as firefighters work to extinguish a fire in a theatre set storage area on Saturday. 
as part of the campus wide alert system, students, faculty and staff all received a commu­nity outreach notice via text, phone and email. The alert no­tified everyone that the build­ing was closed until further notice due to the fire. 
senior danielle piscal, a resi­dent of opus apartments on the campus, said she felt com­forted security was so quick to 
see Fire PAGE 4 


new acceleraTor PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 noTre dame 29, piTTsburgh 26 WithiN 





ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
megan doyle Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 


Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college. editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 

as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is or would be the name of your pet? 

Anna Kiely 
freshman mcglinn hall 
“chi chi.” 

Njeri Williams 
freshman badin hall 
“brewster.” 

Michael Gregory 
freshman Keenan hall 
“mr. T.” 



Caroline Heilmann 
junior pangborn hall 
“butch.” 


Kaitlyn Davis 
junior cavanaugh hall 
“pumpkin.” 


Olivia Mitchell 
freshman badin hall 
“nina.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
mel Flanagan conor Kelly Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
christian myers aaron sant-miller carolyn hutyra matt deFranks 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
steph wulz courtney cox 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Seed of the Church: Blood Drive “Sexuality & Summer Service “We are Made of Star
suzanna pratt amber galik 

Today’s Christian Rolf’s Sports Catholicism” Learning Program Stuff” Martyrs” Recreation Center Joyce Center Information Session Jordan Hall McKenna Hall 11 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Geddes Hall 7 p.m.-8 p.m.
Corrections 

All day. Appointments are Speaker Dr. Terry 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Digital Visualization 
The observer regards itself as Keynote speakers. encouraged. Nelson-Johnson. Speak with volunteers. Theater show. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
10th Annual Baraka Film: “Citizen Kane” “The Servant of Two Northern Lights 5K Sean Curran and The 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Bouts Tournament: DeBartolo Performing Masters” Run/Walk King’s Singers
however, recognize that we will make 
Semis Arts Center DeBartolo Performing Fieldhouse Mall/Clarke DeBartolo Performing
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Joyce Center 2 p.m.-3:59 p.m. Arts Center Memorial Fountain Arts Center
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
6 p.m.-11 p.m. Free for ND students 7:30 p.m.-10 p.m. 9 p.m.-10 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m.
we can correct our error. 

Proceeds go to charity. with ID. Goldoni’s 1743 work. $15 registration. Singing and dance. 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | The observer 

Fan pens book at age 10 
By JOANNA LAGEDROST 
news writer 
writing a book is nothing short of impressive. penning 100 pages and publishing that work at age 10 is extraordinary. 
Jake Keyes, an 11-year-old native of spokane, wash., vis­ited the notre dame campus this past weekend not only to see the pittsburgh game, but also to sign copies of his re­cent publication, “The little gipper’s welcome to notre dame Football.” 
The book was published on oct. 15 and became available at the hammes bookstore on oct. 29. 
”i think this is a great book for younger readers who want to get more information about notre dame football,” Jake said. “i’ll look back at it [writ­ing a book] and i probably still won’t believe that i did it.” 
The book is organized into chapters about notre dame football coaches, heisman tro­phy winners and other great players, historic games and some campus landmarks. 
not previously associated with notre dame in any way, Jake, who celebrated his 11th on oct. 29, said his love of notre dame football stemmed from a three-day basic skills football camp he attended in south bend in the summer of 2010. 
Jake’s father mike Keyes said he cannot remember ex­actly how he heard about the camp but decided to enroll his son. The pair, along with mike Keyes’ father-in-law, flew halfway across the country to attend the camp, run by notre dame football players and coaches. 
“we just had a really nice time,” Keyes said. “That kind of changed [Jake’s] life.” 

while at notre dame, Jake said he visited the hammes notre dame bookstore. 
“when i was at the hammes bookstore, i looked around at all the great football books, but i didn’t really see any for my age group,” he said. “[and i thought] well, why can’t i do this? and i just started to write a book.” 
once he was struck with the idea, Jake said he just really wanted to finish it.  
“it took me about a year [to write],” Jake said. “it took up a lot of time and it was a lot of work, but i had fun doing it.” 
Jake also included many notre dame pictures in his book. he used some pictures from the internet, he said, and his dad retrieved some others from the notre dame archives. 
Then Jake learned that in order to sell his work at the hammes bookstore, he need­ed written consent from every photographed individual. 
“i wrote a lot of letters and e­mails asking for permission,” Jake said. “i don’t think any­one told me i couldn’t use their picture, but some people just didn’t respond, and time was running out, so they didn’t make it [into the book].” 

ellen eide, a 2012 notre dame graduate, assisted Jake with the aesthetics of the book.  Jake said he emailed her a microsoft word document with inserted pictures and she designed the layout of the book. 
Jake said the title, “The little gipper,” was his own idea, and his dad, who is a lawyer, helped to make it a registered trademark. 
Jake traveled to south bend with his parents, two young­er sisters and 13 other fam­ily members for the signing, where he displayed a pair of senior running back cierre wood’s football gloves. 
“i was at practice Thursday night and he just handed them to me,” Jake said. 
Contact Joanna Lagedrost jlagedro@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
Jenkins blesses new accelerator 
By KATIE MCCARTY 
news writer 

university president Fr. John Jenkins dedicated and blessed the new su pelletron nuclear particle accelerator Thursday, calling the occa­sion “a great step for notre dame.” The dedication cer­emony was held on the first level of the new  four-level space within nieuwland science hall that houses the accelerator. in atten­dance was physics profes­sor michael wiescher, who played a key role in bring­ing the accelerator to notre dame and has worked in the department for 27 years. 

There are two other ac­celerators within the facil­

“The accelerator is designed to test conditions at the center of sun, stars and supernova explosions.” 
Michael Wiescher 
physics professor 
ity, but the new one has a “much more intense beam,” wiescher said. 
“The accelerator is de­signed to test conditions at the center of sun, stars and supernova explosions,” he said. 
The tank that houses the accelerator was installed in october 2011, and the actual accelerator was installed in march. The four-story tall instrument had to be low­ered into its new home on the top of nieuwland science hall by helicopter. in total, the accelerator cost about $8 million, $4 million from a national science Foundation grant. The university paid the remainder for the necessary modifications for nieuwland to house the new accelera­tor. The first beam from the accelerator was produced in april 2012, and since then, research has been under way. 
The instrument has com­plex machinery that starts with an ion source, which ac­celerates charged particles and shoots them through a gas. Then there is a nuclear reaction in the gas, which forms new elements and mimics how energy is made within the sun, stars and su­pernovas. The instrument runs a test that models the change in elemental com­ponents of the center of the stars, and then compares the data to observations of the actual center of stars’ make-up. 
when asked about the south bend community’s reaction on the project, wiescher said concerns should be tempered by the fact the accelerator has a “number of applications.” 
“This accelerator is widely used for research on cancer treatments, smoke detectors, fire alarms, climate monitor­ing and is used extensively in archaeology and history,” he said. 
in addition, the machine can also be used to research nuclear waste. 
“The particles from the ac­celerator can help scientists tell how slowly nuclear waste will degrade in a shorter amount of time than tradi­
tional  methods,”  research  
faculty  member  daniel  
robertson said.  

This accelerator is one of five of its kind in the world, and the project is sustain­able. when describing the accelerator, robertson said it is “lower energy but more versatile” than the other ac­celerators in the laboratory. 
Furthermore, 20 to 30 uni­versities around the world are involved in the project, sending user groups to cam­pus from countries such as brazil, mexico and china. 
“international groups do experiments here, and we try to encourage international participation,” he said. 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

cAMPuS lifE cOuNcil 

group discusses campus safety 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
The members of campus life council discussed on-campus safety at its meeting Friday afternoon. 
while crime numbers are not high or increasing, student body president brett rocheleau said students are still often afraid to walk around campus alone at night. 
“we should try to minimize that fear,” rocheleau said. 
multiple campus resourc­es are aimed at keeping the grounds safe and comfortable, he said, but the student body does not have a widespread awareness of their presence. 
“whatever we do or whatever we have, it’s publicizing it [that is the issue],” howard rector margaret morgan said. 
she said students need to know notre dame security police (ndsp), the Quad squad 
and  safewalk  protect  the  
campus.  
rector  maria  hinton  of  

cavanaugh said the Quad squad consists of several officers who are assigned to monitor the vari­ous quads. 
“They walk constantly, all night long,” she said. “Their shifts run from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. and they stop in the halls and check their basements.” 
night monitors were also re­cently reinstated in all women’s halls this year. morgan said these officers sit in the lobbies of the residence buildings in order to instill a sense of security. 
an additional safety device is the blue light phone. These emergency phones are located in various areas of campus, such as near the lakes and along the edge of campus by stepan Fields. 
but chief of staff Katie baker said ndsp does not advocate the phones as a strong form of crime prevention. 
“They don’t get used really and don’t deter crime,” baker said. 

rocheleau said one way to perhaps deter crime would be to expand the number of video cameras on campus, although notre dame already has several located on buildings overlook­ing the parking lots. 
another idea to improve cam­pus safety was to increase light­ing around campus. 
Junior James slaven, student union board director of public­ity, said the construction area around the morris inn is a safe walking area. he said the con­stant, bright lights allow stu­dents to feel safe at night, but the downside is the annoyance they cause to nearby dorms. 
“we need to find a balance be­tween no lights and floodlights,” he said. 
areas specified for increased lighting included god Quad, the crosswalks leading to saint mary’s and the paths around the pasquerilla east and west areas. baker said these locations deal with a large amount of student traffic even at night. 
“we mentioned putting re­flectors on those crosswalks so they stand out more,” she said. 
walsh hall senator veronica guerrero said the issue of safety also requires common sense. For instance, students should not go on midnight runs around the lakes. 
“you have to be aware of your surroundings,” she said. 
in order to be fully aware, rocheleau said it is also impor­tant to notice large sidewalk cracks and flooding around campus. although the climate makes it difficult to maintain quality sidewalks, rocheleau said the university acknowledg­es the problem and is trying to address it. 
“They’ve asked us to talk to people and get a list of specific areas,” baker said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
constitution 
conTinued From page 1 
an implication in the family and home life. 
“in a nation of many faiths, ethnicities and ideologies, the written constitution stands as a uniquely unifying american symbol,” amar said. “The impor­tant thing to understand about america’s symbolic constitution is simply that it exists.” 
being the people of the united states means receiving certain rights, but not all of these rights are explicitly mentioned. amar said the government upholds lib­erties such as having a pet dog, playing an instrument and rais­ing children, even though noth­ing in the written constitution explicitly guarantees them. 
“many of americans’ most ba­sic rights are simply facts of life,” amar said. “when it comes to rights, the written constitution gestures beyond itself, and points to the existence of entitle­ments that are not enumerated, not strictly listed in the written constitution itself.” 
amar said these rights are embodied in the ordinary ways in which ordinary americans choose to live. They can be found in the ninth amendment to the u.s. constitution, which states, “The enumeration in the constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.” 
This became especially im­portant in the case griswald vs. connecticut where amar said the state criminalized the use of contraceptives even between married couples in the privacy of their own bedrooms. The court ruled in a 7-2 vote to ac­cept this as a form of privacy of the constitution, and the law was abolished. 
The bill of rights does not spe­cifically mention privacy, but at the same time the court recog­nized that no law “could properly intrude into the private state of consensual private relations in the bedroom.” The lived consti­tution should then coincide with the social practices and norms of ordinary law abiding citizens, amar said. 
The ideas of privacy and prop­erty have no definitive line of separation especially when they relate to private places such as the home. of the two ideas, amar said privacy is innately the more egalitarian. 
“intimacy is distributed more equally across the social classes than is property,” he said. 
Though not necessarily con­stitutional in themselves, amar said other historical documents do serve as sources in interpreta­tion of american law where the constitution itself falls short or remains unclear. 
The range of these sources in­cludes “The Federalist papers,” the gettysburg address, the northwest ordinance, the dream speech and a selection of supreme court cases. 
abraham lincoln and martin luther King Jr. were among sev­eral important historical figures 
“In a nation of many faiths, ethnicities and ideologies, the written constitution stands as a uniquely unifying American symbol.” 
Akhil Reed Amar 
law professor 
Yale University 
who created other texts, such as those mentioned above, that formed this symbolic constitu­tion. amar said those works act as “privileged sources of mean­ing, exploration and guidance.” 
This level of open interpreta­tion makes the written consti­tution susceptible to a number of different interpretations. but, in the process of gaining under­standing, americans can seek clarity in these other constitu­tional texts. 
These texts do not stand alone, but rather they form a system. amar said lincoln based his gettysburg address on the 1776 constitution. in turn, King refer­enced the gettysburg address in his 1963 speech given in front of the lincoln memorial. 
“The ubiquity of Jefferson and lincoln should hardly surprise us, for america’s modern consti­tution is a two-party constitution and Jefferson and lincoln are the patron saints of america’s two parties,” amar said. 
another common element in these texts is the reference to providence. Five of the six rep­resentative texts amar high­lights in his book mention god. one of these is the northwest ordinance, which declares, “religion, morality, and knowl­edge are necessary to good government and happiness of mankind.” 
“lincoln’s closing sentence re­ferred to quote ‘this nation under god,’” amar said. “words that would find their way with minor tweaking into the 20th-century pledge of allegiance.” 
even King’s speech contained religious influences, and biblical allusions. amar said that people often wonder how such religious texts can pervade the constitu­tion or political office, but this is not unheard of. 
“although america’s constitution is not itself a religious document, neither is it an anti-reli­gious document,” amar said. 
Just as the constitution does not specifically separate from re­ligion, nor does it separate from including certain peoples. amar said race, gender and even birth status do not change the link be­tween the constitution and the american people it mentions. 
“precisely that all men are cre­ated equal, all persons born in america would be legally equal and thus equally citizens at birth and no government could keep these disabilities on a person simply because of their birth sta­tus,” he said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
fire 
conTinued From page 1 
alert the students. 
“it’s always concerning when you see that you have a call, a text and an email from security,” piscal said. “but it’s always good to know that they are looking out for us and letting us know that no one was injured during the fire.” 
senior bri Tepe, a resident of lemans hall, just a short dis­tance from moreau, said she appreciates the extent of saint mary’s emergency alert system. 
“i think it was good that we re­ceived all three different forms of communication from secu­rity,” Tepe said. “The chances of being notified are more likely with all three rather than just a phone call. so many people have email on their phones these days so it makes it almost impossible not to know what is going on. i definitely felt well informed.” 
in the email alert, the college specified the time the fire began and reassured receivers it had been contained quickly and no one was injured. The text sent to students, faculty and staff showed the same message. 
“smoke in the building was the biggest issue,” o’brien said. “First response, restoration specialists, spent saturday and sunday at moreau hall using highly specialized air purifi­cation equipment to clear the entire building of the smell of smoke.” 
The smell dissipated from the classrooms and the building is open for classes today, o’brien said. The office space is also fine for use. 
as of last night, the air purifi­cation equipment was still op­erating in the building but was set to be removed around 7 a.m. this morning before classes be­gan. The basement storage area where the fire occurred remains closed, o’brien said. 
“it will be business as usu­al in moreau tomorrow,” she said. “The musical ‘The secret garden’ will go on as sched­uled this coming Friday and saturday.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | The observer 

catholic 
conTinued From page 1 
“catholics’ voting patterns have largely reflected their working class backgrounds, but one could argue that their democratic party affiliation began to crystallize with the election of John F. Kennedy,” he said. 
now, campbell said, wealthier voters are more likely to be republican, and catholics are more likely to be wealthier members of society. 
“over the last 20 to 30 years or so, we’ve seen a divide emerge within the catholic population that actually perfectly mirrors the di­vide you find in the national population,” campbell said. “catholics that are more re­ligiously devout … they are more likely to lean more republican than democrat.” 
history professor mark noll said the influence of religion in national politics ebbs and flows across election seasons. 
“i think this year [faith] is less significant than it was in 2008 or even 2000 because of the concentration on eco­nomic matters,” he said. 
noll teaches a course this semester on “religion and american politics,” and he said history class creates a “learning season” on the way religion affects hot-button is­sues and election discourse. 
“i’m impressed with their seriousness. … They seem to be presenting these positions after the kind of clear thought and careful agenda setting that a democracy requires,” noll said. “so in the extent that they are representing the notre dame campus, i’m quite optimistic about intel­ligent, morally-based voting, morally-aware voting by the notre dame students.” 
‘A public servant’ 
senior Kara mathis said she was “pleasantly surprised” with the balanced debate she has experienced as a voter on campus this semester. when her sociology professors have considered the election and campaign politics this se­mester, she said, faith has not been a dominant part of dis­course in the classroom. 
“For the most part, people are respectful to keep [faith] of it out of the debate, espe­cially in the classroom,” she said. “personally, if i’m at my house or if i’m with my friends, that may be brought up more.” 
even in looking at the larger scale of policy in the country, mathis said moral values will overlap with the way an indi­vidual voter views debate over important issues. 
“on the issue of health care, my personal belief, my christian belief, says that you are there to help those who can’t help themselves,” she said. “in that case, i whole­heartedly believe in universal health care policies that would help those to get them­selves back on their feet.” 
but for mathis, her religion needs to be separate than her political consciousness. 
“For me, i try and look at my political views through the lens of a public servant,” mathis said. “These officials 
“I think this year 
[faith] is less 
significant than 
it was in 2008 
or even 2000 
because of the 
concentration 
on economic 
matters.” 
Mark Knoll 
history professor 
are elected to serve citizens whether or not they pray to the same god or they read the same religious script. i try and look at the bigger picture and realize that my beliefs … are not the only religious beliefs represented by the american people, so when i look at is­sues, especially social issues, i try to understand it through the country as a whole.” 
Faith, she said, is personal. politics is not. 
“i try and live my life in a christian way, but my faith is based on a personal relation­ship with Jesus christ,” she said. “it’s not based on a deci­sion made by someone next to me. so i guess that’s how i look at political issues as well.” 
the day after the election 
during this election, the economy has been a dagger for both parties and a grenade in the hands of voters watch­ing their candidates debate. 
“abortion, gay marriage and other issues that reso­nate with catholics have been overshadowed by economic issues,” davis said. “moral and social issues have not been prominent in the presi­dential debates and campaign ads tended to minimize these issues.” 
The issue of catholicism has moderately resurfaced in this election among the two major candidates for vice president 
— democratic incumbent vice president Joe biden and republican candidate paul ryan are both catholics. during the vice presidential debate oct. 11, moderator martha raddatz of abc news threw a curveball at the two men. 
“This debate is, indeed, historic,” she said. “we have two catholic candidates, first time, on a stage such as this. and i would like to ask you both to tell me what role your religious has played in your own personal views on abortion.” 
The question, campbell said, exposed voters to two different perspectives on an issue from catholic candi­dates — and two different perspectives on applying per­sonal belief to political policy. 
“The question was actually quite an odd one,” campbell said. “martha raddatz did not ask, ‘what is your policy on abortion?’ … [she asked,] ‘Talk about your personal feelings on abortion and your catholic faith.’ really what should matter is their policies.” 
davis said students, like candidates, must evaluate their own beliefs to dictate their own individual votes. 
“my advice to notre dame students is this: Faith and re­ligious beliefs are extremely important, and they should be at the heart of all political decisions,” davis said. 
The ballots will be cast, by catholics and non-catholics alike, on Tuesday. and then comes the day after election day. 
“a lot of people think that they vote and their respon­sibility as a citizen is done once election day comes, but it’s not,” damian said. “we’re constantly members of soci­ety, so we have a responsibil­ity to live out those values and ideals in every aspect of our lives. it’s important that what we care about in politics also comes out in our daily lives.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Panel 
conTinued From page 1 
democratic candidate al gore won the popular vote, but lost the election by losing the electoral vote. 
layman said while race for the popular vote seems to be evenly matched, president barack obama is projected to have the lead in elector­al votes. such a close race means that a repeat of the 2000 election could occur, he said. 
davis questioned the ac­curacy of the data collected in public opinion polls. he highlighted this by bring­ing up the prevalence of bias in polls, specifically gender bias. 
Forty-four percent of wom­en claim they will vote for gov. mitt romney, he said, while 50 percent say they are in favor of obama. but davis said the gender gap in this election was actually greater than the projections revealed. 
“The stark difference in gender views between the two candidates, could play a large role in the way in which women will vote,” davis said. 
he said he believes many women who publically say they are going to vote for romney will eventually check off obama’s name on the ballot. 
campbell then discussed religions’ role in the elec­tion, describing romney’s mormon faith as a “stained 

paid adverTisemenT 

glass ceiling” hindering his campaign efforts. campbell noted his religion has not been a matter of discussion in recent months. 
The relative lack of reli­gious discussion stems from the fact that both candidates’ campaigns have in some way been marred by their reli­gious affiliations, he said, and both candidates wish to avoid “mutually-assured destruction.” 
drawing parallels to when president John F. Kennedy was elected as the first catholic president, campbell questioned what role religion plays in elections and how re­ligious tolerance is affected by the presidency. 
“if romney was to win, would this mean more religious tolerance for mormonism across america?” campbell said. 
davis, campbell and layman agreed the biggest factor in the election would be mobilizing voters to get to the polls. 
Contact Hannah Eckstein at heckste1@nd.edu 




The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
iNSiDE cOluMN 

one more month 

Jillian Barwick 
saint mary’s editor 

Friends, smicks, communication studies majors, lend me your ears and eyes. Finally, i have seven words that guarantee a smile will spread across your faces: 
one month until senior comprehen­sives are done! 
yes, that is correct; only about one more month until we all gather into vander vennet Theatre in the basement of the student center for three whole nights of presentations by our peers. 
as we enter this final month of prep­arations, i encourage you to remember that soon we will sigh a breath of relief as our comprehensives come together with the finishing touches before our very eyes. all the hard work, sweat and tears that we have poured into (and maybe onto) our projects will be worth it once that eight-minute presentation is over. 
Just think back to last semester, when we were second-semester juniors, dreaming of the day our senior comps would commence, picking topics and writing literature reviews. Those were the days. 
as we look back from where we began to where we are now, one month stands in our way of that buzz our professors call “senioritis.” This next month will be intense. many of us will find our walls of mental strength begin to crack. but fear not, friends, we will prevail in the end. 
Forget about the next few weekends being the busiest you’ve ever had. Forget about the upcoming weeks be­ing cramped with finals preparation. Forget that you may not end up at brothers or o’rourke’s until spring se­mester. you are almost there. you must keep going; you must not quit. 
my fellow communication majors, we are almost there. so close to the end that you can smell the sweet scent of freedom knocking on our doors. all will be right in the world once again, just keep on going my friends. 
cJ’s and Finny’s will have to wait. The bouncer with the bar handle mustache will understand. we must keep going; we must not quit. 
smicks, i know you can do this. i have faith in you. i am rooting for you all like you are all rooting for me. we have to stick together and finish what we came to saint mary’s to do. That clock is ticking. once it hits the end, graduation day is here. 
only one more month to go, ladies. one more month and we will be on our way to the “real world.” Friends, let’s get this done. let’s finish these comps. let’s celebrate because we deserve to. 
only one more month! we can do it. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Re-elect Barack Obama 
Adam Newman 
scientia potentia est 

“This is our moment. This is our time — to put our people back to work and open doors of opportunity for our kids; to restore prosperity and pro­mote the cause of peace; to reclaim the american dream and reaffirm that fundamental truth — that out of many, we are one; that while we breathe, we hope, and where we are met with cyni­cism and doubt and those who tell us that we can’t, we will respond with that timeless creed that sums up the spirit of a people: yes, we can.” 
This is an excerpt from the vic­tory speech delivered by president-elect barack obama at grant park in chicago, ill. it was seen as a historic night not only because america had elected their first african-american president, but also because they elect­ed a man who had the ability to be a “transformative president.” Four years later, many people do not believe, or are unsure if barack obama should be re-elected. To those, i present the case to re-elect president barack obama. 
obama came into office in the middle of the worst economic crisis in our lifetime. The stock market had declined from its high of over 14,000 points in october 2007 to 7,949 the day he took office. in the fourth quarter of 2008, the economy contracted at a rate of nine percent, and when he took of­fice it was contracting at a rate of seven percent. in the first three months of his presidency, the economy lost an aver­age of 750,000 jobs. while politically unpopular, the recovery act (better known as the stimulus) helped stop the decline through tax breaks, infra­structure projects and assistance to states. within months, the economy had come back from the brink and was growing. Jobs growth would come later — albeit not as strongly as hoped. The cbo estimated that as a result of the stimulus, between 1.5 and 3.3 mil­lion more people were employed, un­employment was between 0.7 and 1.7 percent lower than it would have been without it and the level of gdp was higher by up to 4.5 percent. 
against political advice and lessons from history, obama took on health care reform. many people believe that this was a mistake during an economic downturn. but these people are misin­formed. america’s health care system is a ticking time bomb that needs re­form, and the only time a president can do it is in his first two years in office. health care reform has been attempted by seven other presidents, including Fdr. all have failed, but obama suc­ceeded in pushing for universal cover­age while helping contain costs in the long term. 
obama has many other successes. he restructured the auto industry, which helped provide liquidity during the worst of the recession when private firms — like bain capital — would not loan money. obama passed the repeal of “don’t ask, don’t Tell” and was with­in striking distance of a historic long­term deficit reduction deal with house speaker John boehner that ended due to Tea party opposition. 
moreover, obama has pursued an excellent foreign policy. he has over­seen the removal of american troops from iraq and created the framework to bring troops home from afghanistan in 2014. his preference for targeted drone strikes versus large-scale oc­cupations has been a much better use of american resources at a time when americans are tired after a decade of war. his shift of resources from the middle east to the pacific reflects a 21st-century foreign policy that will balance the rise of china. with that being said, his greatest accomplish­ment was overseeing the mission to kill bin laden. many wrongly believe that this was an easy call. many of obama’s advisors — cia chief leon panetta, defense secretary bob gates and vice president Joe biden all advised against it at that time. a failed mission with american deaths and no bin laden would have meant plummeting poll numbers. 
obama should not just be re-elected for what has done, but for what he will do. reports suggest that the obama administration will gear up for one last reform — most likely the immigration system, by humanely dealing with the 12 million undocumented immigrants who are here now. 
obama came into office at a time of economic crisis. he not only led us out of it, but he also began to lay the framework for a 21st-century economy and executed a brilliant foreign policy. in terms of accomplishments, leader­ship and vision, there is no doubt that obama should serve another term as the president of the united states. 
Adam Newman is a senior politi­cal science major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDitORiAl cARtOON 

QuOtE Of thE DAY 
“i think of a hero as someone who understands the degree of responsibility that comes with his freedom.” 
Bob Dylan 

U.S. singer & songwriter 
WEEklY POll 

how did you spend your extra hour from daylight savings? 
Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll by 5 p.m. Thursday 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Lessons from Peking University 
lEttER tO thE EDitOR 

Futon thoughts 
as i lay sprawled on my futon for the third time in a day, making no attempt to do work, i can’t help but feel a little bit like a loser. self-diagnosed with a sprinkle of “se­nioritis,” a smidge of laziness and a more concerning, stronger dose of overall apathy to my own life and its direction, i picture my mind as a small, eerie shack atop a steep hill. The lights are off, it’s freezing; my own Frankenstorm has commenced. 
maybe it’s typical of this time in life, with graduation so imminent, to feel so vehe­mently exhilarated and so overwhelmingly apprehensive. instead of allowing myself to process any of that, though, for the past few months i’ve watched the lights in that shack flicker weakly, finally burning out. 
what is this apathy i’ve been feeling? The disconnect not only to the world, but to people in it? not returning calls, not finishing homework on time, not starting ap­plications for things i truly do want. a dreary, self-pitying perma-cloud over my own melting brain. what’s changed? 
i’ve begun to realize that the pursuit of excellence, happiness and efficacy is not some flowery, cartoon thought-bubble over a little girl in a jean jumper anymore. my dreams and desires sit just over the ledge of the infinity pool of my own childhood and security. maybe it’s time to dip my toe into the ocean. 
maybe i’m more alive than i think. creating bucket lists and actually doing them. Finally body-painting for a game. endless conversation and spontaneity with the best of friends about matters of critical importance (memes oddly fitting to your own life) or the real hurts of growing up. life is beautiful and truly a gift. and although sometimes i feel myself shrinking away, shirking responsibility and spiraling toward that futon again, i remember to turn the lights back on. Just like every one of you, i am special and i offer something lovely to this world. i’m finally starting to realize that i’m ready to do something. nothing is going to stop me. 
Erin Rosario 
senior 

pasquerilla east hall 
nov. 4 in her group, they had to explain that “gambler” cannot be used interchange­ably for “investor” and that there really is a difference between “supply chain” and “value chain.” we all learned so much from conversations like these, and we hope they will lead to a stron­ger long-term relationship with peking university students. 


overall, it was gratifying to see how delegates from both teams were willing to work together and accept differences in thinking and presenting, and, in the process, learn more about each other. beyond the research everyone did on the industry and case topic, i would say the time spent working with the chinese students was very informative and valuable. sophomore John reising said, “The time spent in beijing opened a different perspective on viewing the world. Traveling abroad and leaving the enclosed bubble surrounding the united states and especially notre 
uWiRE 

when science enters food, labels are crucial 
dame is a valuable asset to have.” 
at a time when there is so much glob­al attention directed towards china and its rapid economic growth, the combination of case competition, city excursions and company visits pro­vided a great opportunity for everyone on the trip to witness this phenomenon first-hand and learn more about the crucial role china plays in the interna­tional economy. 
The SIBC is the largest student-run organization on campus with over 400 active members. We seek to promote “Peace through Commerce” by partner­ing with leading companies across all areas of business and providing inter­national internships for our members. We can be reached at sibc@nd.edu or at sibc.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Ava Lee 
student international business council 

every time i tell people that i was in china over fall break, i get the same surprised response: “why in the world did you go all the way to china?” i’m not sure if it’s the fact that a group of us went abroad for a school trip, or simply the fact that we went to china leads to such a response, but it truly was one of the most rewarding experiences i, and everyone else on the trip, have had at notre dame. i am so glad that this proj­ect has come to fruition in a very short amount of time, and hopefully will be a start to greater initiatives and contin­ued relationships between schools in different countries. 
This trip to peking university was such a memorable week. we climbed the great wall of china, ate peking duck at the Forbidden city, prepared for our case projects with chinese students at internet cafes off campus, visited well-known chinese companies and bargained for chinese souvenirs (and street food). it was also challeng­ing because it was many of the stu­dents’ first time in china and, beyond the language barriers, there were the various degrees of cultural differences. while this was a big part of the chal­lenge, it was also the single factor that made this trip so rewarding. 
most of us agreed that the best part of the trip was the opportunity to meet and make new friends with stu­dents from peking university. Junior bobby weltner said, “it was extremely interesting to learn about the similari­ties and differences between our two cultures and to discuss the different ways that the american and chinese students viewed the issues that were presented to us in the case competi­tion.” sophomore alisha anderson said 
Sam Mendelson 
The eagle 

in 1987, science fiction became reality. in this reality, what exactly constituted “food” changed, and consumers have since been left in the dark about what they eat. 
as the world watches and waits for the results of the 2012 presidential elec­tion, proposition 37 in california, which would mandate the labeling of geneti­cally modified organisms (gmos), has been largely ignored. 
a quick rundown of statistics is star­tling: 88 percent of u.s. corn, 90 percent of canola, 90 percent of cotton and 94 percent of soy are genetically modified. This results in a supermarket where over 70 percent of the products contain gmos. 
That statistic is worth repeating: more than 70 percent of foods in the united states are genetically modified. The fu­ture has arrived, and it is all around us. 
The science fiction began at calgene, a biotech firm now owned by monsanto, whose scientists opened the door to a new food and agricultural revolution. The green revolution of the 1950s and 1960s increased crop yields and expand­ed the industrialized the food system, fundamentally changing food at the molecular level. 
calgene created the Flavr savr to­mato, the first commercial gmo. This tomato unleashed a wave of genetic modification that has resulted in a food system dominated by gmos. 
gmos have been designed to resist pesticides sprayed on fields, ironically allowing more to be sprayed, have lon­ger shelf lives, be more tolerant to stress and even contain pesticides within the plant itself. 
The benefits have been unparalleled food production in the u.s. The costs are an uncertain future of food and unintended consequences for both hu­mans and the environment. 
while there must be a separate argu­ment about the effects of gmos in rela­tion to intellectual property, seed prices, health and the potential to form super-weeds (which has already occurred), the discussion facing voters is far simpler. 
if we understand food as a funda­mental right to all people, the right to know what is in our food must also be accepted. 
Fifty countries around the world, in­cluding Japan, india and china, already require the labeling of gmos, and many of these countries restrict their use. The development of gmos has the potential to be one of the greatest technological advances in food and agriculture in the 21st century. 
however, the greatest problem re­garding gmos has been transparency. monsanto and other large companies conduct their own studies on gmos, limit the distribution of their data and results (because it is “proprietary”) and are ultimately left to regulate themselves. large companies such as monsanto, dupont, dow agrosciences, coca-cola, pepsico, Kellogg and general mills have combined to raise $47 million to fight proposition 37. 
The adage “you are what you eat” has taken on an entirely new meaning in the age of gmos, and it is essential that products be labeled so that consumers know what exactly is in them. it is their right. 
This column originally ran in the Oct. 25 edition of The Eagle, serving American University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

moves to the dark side 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


NOTRE DAME 29, PITTSBURGH 26 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Triple-overtime triumph 
One-yard Golson touchdown run wins wild contest as Irish overcome 14-point deficit 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
During most of the second half and overtime of Saturday’s game against Pittsburgh, No. 3 Notre Dame had small odds of ending the day undefeated. 
Yet at the game’s conclusion, the scoreboard showed the Irish were still perfect: Notre Dame 29, Pittsburgh 26. 
After the Irish (9-0) held the Panthers (4-5, 1-3 Big East) to a field goal in the opening portion of the third overtime, sopho­more quarterback Everett Golson plunged into the end zone on a one-yard quarterback sneak to give Notre Dame its first 9-0 start since 1993 in a game that often seemed likely to hand the Irish their first loss of the season. 
“We all believe in each other,” Irish senior running back Theo Riddick said. “I think we showed a lot of courage and a lot of belief out there today, because there were a lot of times we could have gave up.” 
Pittsburgh and Notre Dame traded field goals in the first over­time and the Irish started with possession in the second over­time, driving to the Pittsburgh two-yard line. On second-and­goal, senior running back Cierre Wood dove into the end zone but fumbled before the goal line and the Panthers recovered. 
Pittsburgh gained nine yards on its first three plays of the sec­ond overtime and lined up for a game-winning 33-yard attempt, but Panther kicker Kevin Harper pushed the ball wide right, set­ting up the Irish triumph in the next overtime session. 
“We had an opportunity there, a golden opportunity,” Pittsburgh coach Paul Chryst said. “We didn’t get it done.” 
The missed Panther field goal was not the only close call the Irish escaped. Down 20-6 early in the fourth quarter with the ball at Pittsburgh’s 23-yard line, Golson threw an incomplete pass toward senior tight end Tyler Eifert on 4th-and-four, but Pittsburgh junior defensive back K’Waun Williams committed pass interference. 
The next play, Golson rolled to his right and slung the ball across the field to junior receiver T.J. Jones, who raced to the end zone for an 11-yard touchdown. The extra point was no good. 
After the Irish defense stopped the Panthers, the Notre Dame of­fense took over on its two-yard line down eight with 9:57 left in regulation. Golson orchestrated a drive into the Pittsburgh red zone, but Williams intercepted the sophomore in the end zone with 3:59 remaining. 
“It was just a bad pass,” Golson said. “It was a horrible read, but I think even with the read I made, if I get that ball up a little bit to [sophomore tight end] Troy [Niklas], it’s a touchdown in back of the end zone.” 
The Irish defense notched a three-and-out after the intercep­tion and Golson took over once again from the 50-yard line with 
3:03 to play. On the first play of the drive, Golson bought time in the pocket before he heaved a 45­yard pass to sophomore receiver DaVaris Daniels. 
“I think the whole week I’ve kind of been on DaVaris about when a play breaks down, impro­vising and just getting open, and he did it one time before,” Golson said. “But I was so fortunate that he did that. You know, that’s what I was just trying to do, was just improvise.” 


The next play, Golson was flushed out of the pocket but found Riddick in the end zone to pull the Irish within two with 2:11 left in the fourth quarter. 
On the two-point conversion, Golson rolled to his right looking for a receiver before tucking the ball and diving for the end zone. 
“It’s a three-pronged play,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “The first part of it is a sprint out, roll-out, man-to-man, rollover to [se­nior receiver] Robby Toma. The second element is a clear out and delay for Eifert to come back and then the third is the quarterback to keep it.” 
The Irish drove 60 yards on the game’s opening drive, but were forced to settle for a 37-yard field goal from sophomore kicker Kyle Brindza. Pittsburgh senior run­ning back Ray Graham broke a 55-yard run on the Panthers’ first play from scrimmage, which led to a Harper field goal to tie. 
The Irish sustained another long drive that reached the one-yard line but again only mus­tered three points. The Panthers responded with a 16-yard touch­down run by Graham to take a 10-6 lead with 3:55 left in the half. 
Despite a 43-22 advantage in the number of plays and posses­sion of the ball for 19:26 in the first half, the Irish went into half­time down 10-6. 
Notre Dame began the second half with junior Tommy Rees at quarterback. But after a Rees in­terception on the second drive of the half, Kelly chose Golson the rest of the way. 
“[Everett] missed a number of things that we thought he needed to have down by this time,” Kelly said. “[I] brought Tommy in, had an untimely turnover and went back to Everett.” 
Pittsburgh extended its lead to 17-6 when redshirt senior quarterback Tino Sunseri found freshman tight end J.P. Holtz on a nine-yard touchdown pass. 
Later in the third quarter, the Panthers drove deep in Notre Dame territory after a 48-yard run from Graham, but the Irish defense stiffened and held Pittsburgh to a field goal. 
Notre Dame carried that mo­mentum the rest of the game, as Pittsburgh gained only 21 total yards in the fourth quarter and overtime combined. 
“We went back to the basics,” senior captain and linebacker Manti Te’o said. “If [Graham is] running in your gap, stay in your gap. We understand Ray Graham is a really good running back … and in the fourth quarter, [we said], ‘Everybody, stay in your field, do your responsibility and let Ray come to you.’” 
Though Notre Dame’s perfor­mance was subpar at times, the Irish remained one of just six un­defeated teams in the FBS. 
“It feels great,” senior captain and tackle Zack Martin said. “That’s the biggest message in that locker room. We’re 9-0. We’re still undefeated. And although we had a lot of mistakes and we have a lot of things to clean up, we’ve still got that ‘zero’ on our record.” 
The Irish look to secure a dou­ble-digit win season for the first time since 2006 when they travel to Chestnut Hill, Mass., to face Boston College on Saturday at 8 p.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

PLAYER OF THE GAME 
EVERETT GOLSON 
NOTRE DAME QUARTERBACK 

Despite being briefly benched by Irish coach Brian Kelly, Golson returned to the field midway through the third quarter and led the Irish back from a 20-6 deficit with a superb second half of play. The sophomore totaled 302 total yards and accounted for three touch­downs. His run on a crucial two-point conversion set up overtime. 

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

REPORT CARD 









QUARTERBACKS 

Despite being benched in the second quarter due to poor play, Golson returned to lead a monumental comeback. He threw a crucial late interception but atoned with a tying touchdown pass and two-point conversion run. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Riddick led the Irish backs with a workhorse perfor­mance in the backfield. He had 22 carries for 85 yards and caught the crucial game-tying touchdown in the waning minutes of the fourth quarter. 
RECEIVERS 

Sophomore DaVaris Daniels had a breakout perfor­mance, catching seven balls for 86 yards. His mid-air adjustment on a Golson deep ball led to a 45-yard re­ception and set up Riddick’s tying score on the next play. Tyler Eifert was dependable on third down. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

Golson took only one sack and had time to maneuver on key plays late. The left side of the line — Zack Martin and Chris Watt — began to dominate in the run game late, as Riddick and Cierre Wood found space to the left. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

Starting defensive ends Kapron Lewis-Moore and Stephon Tuitt were menaces to Pittsburgh quarterback Tino Sunseri all game, each recording 1.5 sacks. Louis Nix played through illness and recorded half a sack and four tackles in a nice effort. 
LINEBACKERS 

Pittsburgh running back Ray Graham rushed for 172 yards and much of that falls on some missed tackles at the second level. Senior Manti Te’o did not have his usual highlight reel turnover, and Danny Spond got beat on J.P. Holtz’ touchdown in the third quarter. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

KeiVarae Russell continued his breakout freshman year by playing the hero on an early Ray Graham run, post­ing a downfield tackle. For the most part, the group did a good job containing Pittsburgh’s receivers on the edge. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

It was a rough day for Irish special teams. Brindza made the one kick he had to in the first overtime, but also missed a field goal and an extra point. The kickoff coverage unit had no answer for Pitt return man Lafayette Pitts. 
COACHING 

Brian Kelly commended his coaching staff after the game — it took a monumental effort to keep the Irish positive. Notre Dame’s early goal-line playcalling could be questioned. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.10 

It was a day of ups and downs for Notre Dame, and the team should consider itself very fortunate to still be an unblemished 9-0. Golson showed significant poise and maturity in coming back from being benched. However, miscues in the kicking game and a lackluster day in kickoff return coverage need to be corrected. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
GOLSON’S SCRAMBLE FOR A TWO-POINT CONVERSION 
Trailing 20-18 with just 2:11 left in the fourth quarter, Notre Dame needed a crucial two-point conversion. Irish sophomore quarterback Everett Golson rolled out of the pocket, saw his two receivers covered and scrambled through the Pittsburgh defense for the conversion. 

Allan Joseph 
Editor-in-Chief 

In that nerve-wracking, thrilling and gutty win over Pittsburgh on Saturday, No. 3 Notre Dame saw its hopes for a national title run stay alive by prevailing in triple overtime. But in a larger sense, the Irish (9-0) saw their hopes for perennial national contention come to life, too. 
From sophomore quarter­back Everett Golson to fresh­man safety Elijah Shumate, from sophomore defensive end Stephon Tuitt to freshman cor­nerback KeiVarae Russell (and don’t forget sophomore receiver DaVaris Daniels and sophomore safety Matthias Farley), young players contributed all over the field at Notre Dame Stadium, just as they have all season. 
With the exception of Tuitt, every single one of the play­ers above is in his first year of eligibility. At any other school, they’d all be either “true fresh­men” or “redshirt freshmen.” Terminology aside, the young guys can play. And that bodes well for the trajectory of the Notre Dame program — for this January and beyond. 

Flash back a couple months ago. Question marks abounded all over the roster. Would Golson be able to make big plays while avoiding costly mistakes? Would a young secondary missing two experienced starters to injury (senior safety Jamoris Slaughter and junior cornerback Lo Wood) be able to slow down, much less stop, opposing passing games? Would the defensive line be able to create pressure after Aaron Lynch transferred to South Florida? 

In the last two games, those questions have been emphati­cally answered. Golson may have thrown a bad interception in the fourth quarter Saturday, but the Irish would have lost against both Oklahoma and Pittsburgh if it weren’t for the young quarter­back’s athleticism and ability to make something out of nothing. Russell, Farley and freshman safety Elijah Shumate have ex­ceeded all expectations — just ask Landry Jones. And Tuitt? Well, that’s the easiest answer of them all. 
There were growing pains, of course. Golson struggled early, especially against Michigan. He made a slew of freshman mistakes: fumbles, intercep­tions and missed reads. But with a steady work ethic despite the controversy swirling around his competition with junior Tommy Rees, Golson found his stride in spectacular fashion midseason. The secondary didn’t face much competition until the opening series against Miami, when the young guns let Phillip Dorsett behind them twice in three snaps. Only Dorsett’s acute case of the drops saved the Irish from real embarrassment, but Russell, Farley and Shumate adjusted quickly, never allowing Miami quarterback Stephen Morris to find open receivers again. 
Three-quarters of the way through the season, the young players are no longer green. 
They’re continuing to grow and get better every week, and given another offseason or two, many of the young players will be among the best talents in the country. 
We haven’t even mentioned sophomore running back George Atkinson, freshman safety Nicky Baratti, sophomore running back Cam McDaniel or fresh­man receiver Chris Brown, all of whom have contributed in big ways in the last two weeks. Freshman receivers Davonte’ Neal and Justin Ferguson have all sorts of big-play ability wait­ing to be unleashed, and fresh­man running back Will Mahone could be a better backfield bruis­er than either Robert Hughes or Jonas Gray. Freshman linebacker Romeo Okwara is as athletic as they come, and freshman tackle Ronnie Stanley will be able to step right into the starting line­up. If Irish coach Brian Kelly can keep recruiting this way — and early reports of the 2013 class suggest he can — the Irish will be able to compete for BCS berths year after year after year. 
A 9-0 record is certainly worth celebrating. So too is Notre Dame’s sudden resurgence near the top of the polls. But beyond that, the play of the young Irish is worth celebrating too — and it looks like it’ll be worth celebrat­ing for years to come. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | THE OBSERVER 

Golson, Brindza bounce back from adversity 

By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
“Coming out today, I know we came out a little flat,” Irish sophomore quarterback Everett Golson said after Notre Dame’s 29-26 win over Pittsburgh on Saturday. 
That was the story of Notre Dame’s first three quarters against the Panthers. The de­fense was gashed and exposed for the first time all year, and the special teams were even worse. These factors contrib­uted to the perfect storm for an Irish team trying to avoid an upset and staring down a 20-6 fourth-quarter deficit. 
While the Panthers didn’t make matters easier down the stretch, Notre Dame pulled to­gether and stepped up in every facet to pull out an improbable victory. 
It started with Golson, who became the team’s biggest run­ning threat in addition to han­dling passing duties in Irish coach Brian Kelly’s empty-set offensive packages. The sopho­more — pulled in the first half in favor of junior Tommy Rees, only to return in the third quar­ter — led the Irish on a drive to cut the lead to 20-12 early in the fourth quarter. 
“Everett competed his butt off,” Kelly said. “He’s not per­fect, but the boy competes. And, man, he just kept competing in the second half and found a way for us to get enough points on the board.” 

Then it was the defense’s turn to carry the load and right its wrongs. Senior linebacker Manti Te’o and graduate stu­dent defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore stepped up after quiet afternoons to hold the Panthers offense and get the ball back to Golson. 
Golson drove the Irish back to the red zone again, but then made what he called a “hor­rible” read that resulted in a costly interception. The de­fense held for a three-and-out again to back up the offense, and two plays later Golson took his second chance and found senior Theo Riddick in the end zone before converting the two-point conversion to tie the game at 20. 
“It was ugly at times and beautiful at times,” Te’o said. “We all had to believe that we were going to win. We had to take it play by play. I’m so proud of the way our defense responded.” 
Pittsburgh opened the first overtime with a field goal, and struggling sophomore kicker Kyle Brindza, who had missed an extra point and a field goal already, stood in and drilled his do-or-die attempt to respond and keep the team alive. 
The Irish again found them­selves with their backs against the wall in the second overtime after a Cierre Wood fumble. 
Pittsburgh lined up a field goal from 33 yards away — but the kick flew inches right of the up­rights, and Notre Dame was fi­nally ready to pull together and seize the win. 
“We knew our defense was going to hold them to a field goal at least, and we knew we had to do our job to put it in the end zone,” Irish senior tackle Zack Martin said. 
The defense did just that once again, pushing the Panthers back two yards and stopping them at just a field goal. Then, capping off an ef­fort that earned him the game ball, Golson helped lead a total offensive effort, diving into the end zone to seal the victory. 
“You have to play as well as you can against all of these teams or you’re going to get beat,” Kelly said. “And they found a way.” 
When Notre Dame fell behind 

— struggling and underper­forming in basically every as­pect of play — the team dug out together, with everyone pulling the load to keep the dreams of a perfect season alive. 
“I’d like to think that this is what a team coming together and handling major adversity is,” Golson said. “Just com­ing together — both offense and defense — and the guys winning.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
ND thriving in close games 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has played 16 games decided by a touchdown or less since the arrival of third-year coach Brian Kelly. The Irish went just 2-5 in the first seven such games under Kelly, but are 8-1 since then. Saturday’s 14-point comeback in the fourth quarter is the largest the Irish have overcome under Kelly and their biggest fourth-quarter comeback since Notre Dame trailed Michigan State 37-21 and came back to win 40-37 in 2006. 

Over the century mark 
Over the course of Saturday’s game, Notre Dame tied the school record of 104 offensive plays. The Irish also ran that many against Iowa in 1968. The Irish also recorded their longest scoring drive of the season, but managed just a field goal to grab a 6-3 lead in the second quarter. 
The drive took a time of posses­sion of 9:26, which it the pro­gram’s longest scoring drive in at least 15 seasons. 
In total, the Irish ran 44 more offensive plays than Pittsburgh, who ran just 62. The imbalance led to the Irish holding an ad­vantage in time of possession, holding the ball for 35:23 in regulation. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
SCORING SUMMARY 


1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  OT  TOTAL  
3  7  10  0  6  26  
3  3  0  14  9  29  








NOTRE DAME 3, PITTSBURGH 0 
Kyle Brindza 37-yard field goal 

8:28 remaining 

Drive: 14 plays, 60 yards, 6:32 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 3, PITTSBURGH 3 
Kevin Harper 39-yard field goal 

5:00 remaining 

Drive: 7 plays, 52 yards, 3:28 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 6, PITTSBURGH 3 
Kyle Brindza 20-yard field goal 

10:34 remaining 

Drive: 18 plays, 89 yards, 9:26 elapsed 
PITTSBURGH 10, NOTRE DAME 6 
Ray Graham 16-yard run (Harper kick) 

3:55remaining 

Drive: 6 plays, 58 yards, 2:25 elapsed 
PITTSBURGH 17, NOTRE DAME 6 
J.P. Holtz 9-yard pass from Tino Sunseri (Harper kick) 

5:52remaining 

Drive: 3 plays, 52 yards, 0:45 elapsed 
PITTSBURGH 20, NOTRE DAME 6 
Kevin Harper 21-yard field goal 

0:58remaining 

Drive: 7 plays, 57 yards, 2:25 elapsed 
PITTSBURGH 20, NOTRE DAME 12 
T.J. Jones 11-yard pass from Everett Golson (Brindza kick failed) 

13:40 remaining 

Drive: 11 plays, 71 yards, 2:18 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 20, PITTSBURGH 20 
Theo Riddick 5-yard pass from Everett Golson (Golson run for two-point conversion) 

2:11 remaining 

Drive: 2 plays, 50 yards, 0:52 elapsed 
PITTSBURGH 23, NOTRE DAME 20 
Kevin Harper 41-yard field goal 

N/Aremaining 
Drive: 4 plays, 1 yard 

NOTRE DAME 23, PITTSBURGH 23 
Kyle Brindza 37-yard field goal 

N/Aremaining 
Drive: 4 plays, 5 yards 

PITTSBURGH 26, NOTRE DAME 23 
Kevin Harper 44-yard field goal 

N/A remaining 
Drive: 4 plays, -2 yards 

NOTRE DAME 29, PITTSBURGH 26 
Everett Golson 1-yard run (No PAT) 

N/A remaining 
Drive: 6 plays, 25 yards 

STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 
231 
144 
PASSING YARDS 
291 
164 

Time of Possession 
Time of Possession 
24:37 35:23 



THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012| NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


AVOIDING THE 
UPSET 
The Irish improved to 9-0 Saturday for the first time since 1993 in a wild 29-26 triple-overtime victory over Pittsburgh. Notre Dame overcame a 14-point deficit in the fourth quarter and survived a 33-yard field goal attempt by Pittsburgh kicker Kevin Harper in the game’s second overtime that could have ended its undefeated run. 





The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

William Neal 
scene writer 

pop pop! Fellow greendale human beings can finally rejoice! nbc’s beloved (but not quite a hit) sitcom “community” has finally planned a return date for its season 4 premiere. 
The series was originally planned to air oct. 19, but according to an online video released by the cast, the powers that be “couldn’t decide where to put oct. 19” (putting oct. on oct. 19 would be logical … and wrong). cast mem­bers donald glover (Troy) and danny pudi (abed) soothed angered fans by explaining oct. 19 isn’t just a date — it’s a state of mind and a feeling within us all (“That feeling you get when you see a kitten climb out of a cardboard box on youTube? That’s oct. 19.”). 
Thankfully, nbc announced this past week that oct. 19 has found its place: Feb. 7. 
many fans of the series were disap­pointed to hear nbc would delay the “community” premiere date after al­ready giving them an extended midsea­son hiatus last season. it’s a wise move for the network to push back the show, because if “community” (and its fellow delayed sitcom, “whitney”) did air on their originally planned date, the series would fall into nbc’s Friday lineup. “community,” despite being a hysteri­cal sitcom, has struggled with ratings since its beginning and placing the series in a Friday time slot would only continue to hurt the show. 
sure, it’s a few more months of wait­ing, but if it means giving “community” the chance to be relocated into higher-profile night like Thursday, then i feel it’s worth the delay. 
“community” doesn’t have the se­niority or ratings of some of the net­work’s other shows, including “The office” and “parks and recreation,” and until their ratings start to improve, they’ll continue to fall victim to market­ing pushes (making room to test out new shows). between delays and low ratings, long-time “community” fans also have to deal with the frustration of series creator dan harmon being replaced as show-runner (you really britta’d that one, nbc), leaving fans to question the future quality of the series. 
despite these worries, greendale lov­ers should stay faithful that the series will continue to be the same pop-cul­ture packed, quick-witted and hilarious series that we fans have come to adore these past few years. 
as great of a show as “community” is, it’s still teetering on the edge of cancel­lation. The show certainly has plenty of competition, but in my opinion, it triumphs over most of the sitcoms cur­rently on television. 
That being said, i implore you all to watch “community” on its return date this upcoming February. regardless of whether you’re already devoted fan or you’ve still never given the show a chance, this is a show that deserves to be watched. From its fast-paced and clever humor to the standout perfor­mances of its ensemble cast, there’s little about this show to be criticized. 
“community” is a show that makes a mockery of traditional television storytelling (“That’s it! we’re doing a bottle episode!”) and is never afraid to step outside of the box (and into the imaginarium). They’ve ripped off an­ime, video games, pbs documentaries and countless movies, and the results always deliver on the laughs. 
every episode is an adventure and it’s always a treat to spend those 22 min­utes with one of these most hilarious and talented casts currently on Tv. at its heart, it’s a show about finding a place and being loved for exactly who you are. 
i have loved the show since it’s begin­ning and can say that very few shows are as creatively ambitious, warm and consistently hilarious as “community” is. on Feb. 7, turn on nbc and give it a chance. #sixseasonsandamovie! 
Contact William Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SPORtS AuthORitY 

John Terry sets a bad example 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
we all have one — that one athlete (or coach or even celebrity or politician) whose very name makes you want to cry like a small child. 
i’m not talking about people who constantly sink your team in the playoffs or whose style of play just rubs you the wrong way. i’m talking about the continual trou­blemakers, the drama kings and queens; the people that you’re not even sure that you hate, just that you would be a happier person if you didn’t have to hear about them so much. 
maybe it’s Terrell owens and his apparent quest to alienate the of the 9/11 attacks was the proper place to get blindingly drunk with teammates. 
Four months later, he was charged with slashing the face of a nightclub bouncer with a broken bottle in a bar fight. his excuse? he had only punched the bouncer with his fists, not a broken bottle. what a stand-up guy. 
There was the time he was ac­cused of giving an undercover reporter a private tour of his club grounds in exchange for money. and then there was the time his mother and mother-in-law were arrested for shoplifting from a su­permarket while he was out of the country playing for england. 
don’t think his misbehavior hasn’t affected his teams on the field. if the british tabloids are to 

  This is a guy who in 2001 decided an airport bar where stranded Americans were watching news of the 9/11 attacks was the proper place to get blindingly drunk with teammates. 

quarterback at all 32 nFl franchis­es. maybe it’s alex rodriguez — as a red sox fan, i don’t know wheth­er to despise him for playing for the yankees, shun him for using peds or pity him for proving that a huge pile of money and a yankee uni­form can’t buy you happiness (or privacy). and then there’s the king of will-he-or-won’t-he, brett Favre. i thank the good lord for every day espn doesn’t come to us live from hattiesburg, miss., and i suspect rachel nichols does as well. 
but the next time you open your sports section and discover rex ryan has found a new and in­novative way to embroil his team in controversy, just know this: it could be worse. nothing here in the united states compares to the long english national nightmare that is the John Terry saga. 
For those of you who don’t know, John Terry is a defender and cap­tain of chelsea F.c. he was a mem­ber of the english national team from 2003 until this september and had two different stints as cap­tain which together lasted for lon­ger than four years. he is beloved (still) by some ardent chelsea fans, who admire his tough, intel­ligent style of play. he’s called “mr. chelsea” in a league where the lack of team loyalty approaches that found in the nba. 
while soccer has seen it’s fair few pretty boys in the past two decades (david beckham and cristiano ronaldo, i’m talking to you), his hairstyle almost never changes and is always sensible (at least by european standards.) he was voted “dad of the year” in 2009 (whether this tells you more about him or the british public is up for debate). 
but he is also, undeniably, a jerk. This is a guy who in 2001 decided an airport bar where stranded americans were watching news be believed, he has cheated on his now-wife multiple, multiple times 
— but only once with the mother of a teammate’s child. after that story came to light in 2010, wayne bridges, the now-former team­mate, refused to play for england. (This is how Terry lost his team captaincy the first time.) 
For a “smart” player, Terry has a history of overly aggressive play and was suspended for the champions league final and semi-final earlier this year because he drove a knee into a barcelona player. right now, Terry is serving a four-game ban for racially abus­ing Queens park rangers defender anton Ferdinand last november (This incident and the ensuing legal case is what cost Terry the english captaincy for the second time.) 
a new york Times feature pub­lished two weeks ago mentioned a flag flown by chelsea supporters: “JT: captain, leader, legend.” 
but where exactly is he leading his teammates? what example is he setting for them? he is certainly a legend — but are the stories that follow him the kind of stories chelsea wants to be associated with? what exactly does Terry have to do before chelsea realizes that he is not the sort of person that they want to represent them? 
it’s time to name a new captain at chelsea, starting with someone who won’t get himself suspended on such a regular basis. and in the meantime we’ll have to bide our time until Terry retires. and then, finally, we won’t have to talk about him any more. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MEN’S SWiMMiNG | nd 156, purdue 144 
irish swim past boilermakers 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
For the first time in six years, notre dame beat no. 18 purdue on Friday, pushing its record to 3-0 and maintaining its unde­feated start with a 156-144 win. 
purdue came led by junior danny Tucker, whose three first-place races the weekend before fueled his squad. but even his continued success in south bend was not enough to carry his team against the cooperation of their opponents. 
“we were racing well, and even if we lost some points on a race, everyone in the next race did his part,” junior chris Johnson said. “we had it in our heads we could win.” 
The irish found guidance in their own leader, junior all­american Frank dyer. his two first-place finishes in the 200-yard freestyle (1:39.14) and 500-yard freestyle (4:33.73) mo­tivated his teammates to gather wins and gather points. 
“it was a great meet, very com­petitive,” Johnson said. “we kept the momentum strong.” 
dyer also earned a first-place finish with teammates junior bertie nel, sophomore cameron miller and senior Kevin overholt in the 200-yard medley relay squad, which they completed in 1:30.16 to come in more than a second ahead of their purdue competitors. 
despite taking only seven of the 16 events, efforts in each race al­lowed the irish to leave with the win. 
outside dyer’s successes, sweeps of the top three places in two events propelled the irish. in the 200-yard freestyle, senior John mcginley and junior colin babcock followed dyer to take second and third in 1:41.22 and 1:41.24, respectively. 
in the 100-yard breaststroke, sophomore Zachary stephens led the way in 55.93, with miller com­ing second in 56.23 and Johnson in 57.07. 
sophomore John williamson’s first place in the 200-yard butter­fly in 1:49.71, stephens’ first in the 200-yard breaststroke in 2:02.14 and sophomore nick nemetz’s first in the one-meter dive were the re­maining top places for the irish. 
“we had been saying all week we could win if we went out and raced well,” Johnson said. “we came out strong and did not let off.” 
The irish have the week to enjoy the win before returning to compe­tition. They continue next weekend in the rolfs aquatic center, starting with pittsburgh on Friday and con­cluding with louisville on saturday. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S SWiMMiNG | nd 152, purdue 148 
notre dame claims first win 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
The irish won nine of the 16 events at their dual meet against purdue on Friday evening, but one mistake allowed the boilermakers to slip by and take the win, 152-148. 
no. 19 purdue (2-0) pulled ahead in the points total in the first race of the night when the irish “a” team was disqualified for an early take-off in the 400-yard medley relay. 
“we had one costly mistake at the beginning of the meet, and that’s just athletics, that’s just the way it varies,” irish coach brian barnes said. “you false start on a relay, and it’s a big hole you’re go­ing to put yourself in early in the meet.” 
despite a frustrating start, the no. 18 irish (0-2) won seven of the next 12 races, and — just as importantly — raced well and scraped up points by finishing in the top five, even when they didn’t get the win. 
“we showed more depth than we did last week against auburn,” barnes said. “[sophomores] courtney whyte, melissa scott, bridget casey [all stood out today]; bridget casey came off the thousand and swam the 200[-yard] fly and won the 200[-yard] fly. we’re seeing some good depth out of [sophomore] suzanne bessire, who was third in the 100[-yard] free. i need to look at the results to get everybody’s name outside of the ones winning the events, but in dual meets like this you need a little more depth than that.” 
barnes also praised his divers, who earned 27 of the 38 points awarded in the one-meter and three-meter events. 
“our divers did a really good job, [senior] Jenny chiang and [sopho­more] allison casareto,” barnes said. “we won both boards, and they did a fantastic job.” 
The irish had overcome their early deficit and led 144-139 going into the last event of the night, the 400-yard free relay. as in the first relay, a small misjudgment sealed the victory for the boilermakers. with 50 yards left to swim, notre dame’s “a” anchor, freshman genevieve bradford, had pulled even with purdue’s lauren gustafson, but on the second to last turn of the race, she slapped her foot against the pool deck. she finished the race and held off purdue’s “c” team to earn second place and four points for the irish, but she had to be helped out of the water and off the pool deck. 
“it’s uncommon,” barnes said about this sort of injury. “i think it was a combination of a couple things; i think there was a tremen­dous amount of excitement from her end and since she was traveling very quickly and just misjudged the turn at the 50, caught the wall too close.” 
despite the close loss, barnes said he was pleased with his team’s atti­tude and their progress from the pre­vious week’s 166-132 loss at auburn. 
“i think we’ve come together pret­ty well as a team,” barnes said. “we competed.” 
The irish aim to secure their first dual meet victory of the season when they host pittsburgh at the rolfs aquatic center next Friday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 

PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt earnparttime.com 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 



ND WOMEN’S SOccER | marQueTTe 1, nd 0 
Young team falls in semis 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
The “baby irish” found out their youth and raw talent could only take them so far Friday, as no. 24 notre dame fell 1-0 to no. 10 marquette in the big east tournament semi­finals in east hartford, conn. 
The golden eagles (16-2­2, 9-0-1 big east) scored on a header off a free kick with 18 minutes to play to solid­ify their spot in the big east championship. They won the title sunday. 
“i think our problem was that we didn’t put two good halves together,” irish fresh­man forward crystal Thomas said. “we kind of came out a little bit slow in the first half.” 
playing complete games has been an issue for the irish (13­5-2, 8-1-1), this season, and it will be something they have to address in preparation for the ncaa tournament. 
“we need to have to good halves,” Thomas said. “we didn’t come out ready and they took advantage of that in the first half.” 
The golden eagles didn’t have a shot on goal in the sec­ond half other than the head­er. Freshman goaltender elyse hight had six saves in net for notre dame. marquette nar­rowly edged notre dame 13-11 in the shot department. but the irish only managed two shots on goal. 
“They got a lucky free kick in the second half and put it away so that kind of falls on us,” Thomas. “it wasn’t anything that they did. i think more of the responsibility is on the way we played.” 
it was a physical game as well. The two teams combined for 30 fouls and freshman forward cari roccaro received a yellow card. 

Thomas and three other irish players were honored by the conference. The big east named roccaro the conference rookie of the year. she also was named to the first-team all-big east team and the big east all-rookie team. Freshman defender Katie naughton and Thomas each  made the all-rookie team — Thomas made the second team all-conference squad and naughton made the third-team roster. Junior cap­tain midfielder mandy laddish made second team all-big east squad. 
Today the ncaa announces the ncaa tournament bracket. as a ranked team, notre dame is expected to be in the bracket but their loss in the big east tournament will hurt theirits seeding. 


“we are very excited the ncaa tournament,” Thomas said. 
The selection show starts at 

4:30 p.m. today. 
“looking ahead, we are prac­ticing really, really intensely,” Thomas said. “we are just go­ing to go into this ready and confident in what our team can do.” 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
fENciNG | garreT penn sTaTe open 
Individuals compete for Irish 

By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
The irish continued their preseason schedule over the weekend with competition in the garret penn state open on saturday and sunday. 
Fencing against the some of the nation’s top competition, notre dame left university park, penn., with 10 top-eight finishes between the men’s and women’s teams. 
“i think we did very well,” se­nior James Kaull said. “i think it was a really encouraging tourna­ment. it’s still very early on in the season so just want to see strong performances and a strong effort so i think everyone really gave that.” 
with the men’s team compet­ing sunday, senior Jason choy led the way in the saber event, bring­ing home a second-place finish. Junior Kevin hassett followed choy, ending in fifth. in men’s epee, junior michael rossi and Kaull placed sixth and seventh, respectively. 
Though choy was the sole medalist on the men’s team, two medalists emerged from the women’s team on saturday as sophomores nicole ameli and ashley severson placed second and third in the women’s epee, respectively. The women’s team also received solid efforts from seniors abigail nichols and lian osier in the saber event. The pair earned fourth and fifth place, respectively. 
“nicole ameli got second in epee and ashley severson got third in the epee and that was probably the most encouraging of all the results at the tourna­ment,” Kaull said. 
The 41st annual garret open included nine top fencing schools from around the united states. as a result, the irish fencers could not take any opponent for grant­ed, Kaull said. 
“[The competition] was strong,” Kaull said. “There are no easy bouts in that tournament. everyone has some level of skill. every bout requires your utmost effort and requires you to pay at­tention. you just can’t walk over anybody.” 
similar to the notre dame invitational last weekend against ohio state in the castellan Family Fencing center, the event at penn state served as a tune-up for the approaching regular season. 
“a preseason tournament like this serves as a check,” Kaull said. “it’s just really an assessment of where you are in the year. you learn what you got beat on in this tournament and you try to cover up those holes moving forward.” 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S BASkEtBAll | nd 70, cardinal sTriTch 56 
Cooley keys Irish exhibition victory 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
after an easy 59-point win in their exhibition opener, the no. 22 irish grinded out a 70-56 win in their preseason finale against cardinal stritch at purcell pavilion. 
senior forward Jack cooley led notre dame with 15 points and 10 rebounds while freshman for­ward cameron biedscheid added 11 points off the bench. 
senior forward Jeremy d’amico paced cardinal stritch with 26 points on 9-of-9 shoot­ing, including a perfect 8-for-8 from behind the arc. d’amico averaged 3.5 points last year and shot 17 percent from 3-point range. 
“The last time somebody shot like was [former irish guard Kyle] mcalarney against syracuse in here,” irish coach mike brey said. “The guy was rolling. whatever they did with him, he’s a shoot­er, baby. he was great. he made tough ones and he got loose on some stuff too.” 
in the first half, the wolves shot 59 percent from the field and 54 percent from the 3-point line on their way to a 34-34 game at halftime. 
“i think we were a little sleepy at halftime,” cooley said. “nothing was really clicking right. we knew we needed to go in at half­time and reset. games like that are going to happen during the season so we have to learn to play through that and recover and have a good second half.” 
in the second half, the irish re­bounded to hold cardinal stritch to 22 points and 35 percent shooting. 
“at halftime, we just talked about cranking it up on defense,” cooley said. “Just really tighten­ing it up and not letting them have as many open shots.” 
notre dame opened the sec­ond half on an 8-0 run high­lighted by 3-pointers from junior guards eric atkins and Jerian grant. 
“i think that was good for us,” atkins said. “we had to deal with a little bit of controversy because we didn’t have to deal with that at all in the first game, being up by 20 or 30 points.” 
The irish pushed their lead to 16 points with an 11-0 run over four minutes. biedscheid capped the run with a flying alley-oop from atkins. 
“cam really gave us a great lift and i was so glad to see him be part of that in the second half,” brey said. 
biedscheid was part of an irish bench that contributed 20 points, nearly a third of notre dame’s points. 
“That’s a pretty good thing when your bench comes in and scores almost a third of your points,” cooley said. “That’s pretty big. 
“we’re a deep team. we’re deeper than we’ve ever been since i’ve been here,” cooley said. “That’s really huge, espe­cially in the big east, where we can just have all those people when you get ground down and sometimes you get in foul trou­ble, to have subs to come in that can keep playing as hard as the starters, it’s huge.” 
biedscheid came in a highly-touted recruit and the missouri gatorade player of the year last year. brey said biedscheid was further along than he expected him to be. 
“what i’ve learned is that [se­nior center garrick sherman] and cameron have joined [the rota­tion] fairly smoothly,” brey said. “cameron has joined it smoother 
paid adverTisemenT 


than i thought he would by this time. i thought it would be more of a work in progress.” 
Freshman forward Zach auguste played three minutes for the irish in his return from an ankle injury. 
“i would have loved to get Zach auguste some more minutes but that didn’t present itself,” brey said. “he’s only been back in practice for three days. he needs a good week of practice before we get going next week.” 
Freshman guard austin burgett bruised his ankle during practice and brey said he expects him back soon. 
The irish will open their season against evansville on saturday at the purcell pavilion. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | The observer 

Bouts 
conTinued From page 16 
people take input from their fellow fighters. we are not going out for gold­en gloves, but we are there to have a really good time. [nicknames] have a long history in the program. if a fighter doesn’t choose a name by a certain time, the captains have a little fun and get to choose a name so the fighters usually get the [their nicknames] in on time.” 
spaulding said the fans have a huge impact on the excitement of the bouts. 
“cheering us on and sup­porting us really makes the event energetic and brings awareness to the cause,” spaulding said. “we en­joy fighting in front of our friends and family and we are breaking records of how much money we are raising 
— the fans are a large part of it.” 
overall, leach said the bouts are a notre dame tradition. 
“baraka bouts has such a storied history,” leach said. 

ND VOllEYBAll | nd 3, seTon hall 1; nd 3, ruTgers 1 
Irish take two in Garden State 
“it is a unique legacy here. way with the first round of it’s been a ten-year athletic fights monday at 6 p.m. in endeavor and it’s an amaz-the Joyce center Fieldhouse. ing club that you won’t see anywhere else.” Contact Isaac Lorton at 
baraka bouts gets under ilorton@nd.edu 


Benefits 
conTinued From page 16 
baraka bouts is celebrating its 10th anniversary],” buccellato said. “i’m extremely proud of these women. i think the ex­perience and participation in a sport like boxing is not just a physical one; it’s a mental one. anybody who is willing to get in between the ropes, under the big lights in a very public place is bound to be able to take that experience with them through­out their lives.” 

in the end, celebrating the 
paid adverTisemenT 

10th anniversary of these char­ity bouts means celebrating the all the lives — both at notre dame and in uganda — that have been enriched by the blessing that is baraka bouts. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
By JOE WIRTH 
sports writer 
The irish extended their winning streak to 10 as they completed the garden state sweep with victories at seton hall and rutgers this weekend. 
The winning streak marks the longest for the program since their 15-game winning streak in 2009 and keeps them in a three-way tie for the big east lead with louisville and marquette. 
despite being out-hit and out-blocked, the irish (19-6, 12-1 big east) defeated the pirates 3-1 in a gritty perfor­mance on Friday. 
sophomore outside hitter Toni alugbue led the team with 17 kills and 13 digs in the game. she also got help from junior setter maggie brindock, who recorded her 10th double-double with 51 assists and 11 digs. 
The team also received solid contributions from sopho­more right side hitter Jeni houser who recorded 15 kills and freshman libero Taylor morey who had 21 digs, seven assists and two service aces. 
The irish then travelled down to new brunswick, n.J., to take on the scarlet Knights on sunday afternoon. 
The team got off to a slow start, but, despite the shaky beginning, coach debbie brown said the team never lost confidence and believed they could get back in the match. 
“we were very error-prone in the first set,” brown said. “we had bad execution early and really dug ourselves a hole. we made a comeback towards the end of the set, but it was too big of a deficit.” 
after the first set, the irish were able to rally and win three straight sets to record the win. 
“our confidence never waned,” brown said. “we started serving and passing a lot better in the later sets and i was really pleased at how we took control of the match.” 
alugbue and brindock once again had standout per­formances as both players notched 12 kills. in addition to the 12 kills, brindock record­ed 38 assists and 12 digs and earned herself a triple-double. 
“maggie really was great to­day,” brown said. “she was at­tacking in the front row and was really able to see where the defenders were going and make plays.” 
The irish were also able to overcome the early deficit with a solid performance from se­nior middle blocker hilary eppink who had nine kills and four blocks. 
The irish will next be in action this Friday against cincinnati in the team’s final home match of the season. The match will start at 7 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

hOckEY | wesTern michigan  3, nd 2; nd 4, wesTern michgan 0 
irish skate to series split 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
after falling 3-2 to no. 11 western michigan on Friday night, the no. 7 irish fought back sunday to shut out the broncos 4-0. 
on Friday, the irish were unable to capitalize on pow­er plays, the broncos scored twice with the man advantage, including the game-winner by junior center chase balisy early in the third period. The second period was the key in the game, as notre dame gave up two goals and was unable to pull itself out of the hole in the third. 
“The second period was definitely the difference to the game,” Jackson said. “we played a decent first and we played with some urgency in the third, but the power play goal hurt. That’s a problem. That’s been our problem a little bit this year at times. we have momentum going and take a penalty and the whole game changes and that that happened again in the third period tonight.” 
in the first minute of the third period, junior defense-man stephen Johns passed the puck through the middle third, where it was tipped by junior left-winger Jeff costello to se­nior captain anders lee, who backhanded a one-time shot into the left corner. shortly after gaining momentum, the irish lost it when senior left-winger nick larson was called for a penalty for incidental contact to the head. 
Forty seconds into the pen­alty, balisy cut through the notre dame defense in front of the net uncontested and re­ceived a pass from freshman defenseman Kenney morrison and placed the puck in the right corner past irish junior goal­tender steven summerhays. 
sophomore goaltender Frank slubowski had 35 saves, while summerhays amassed 22. 
“[slubowski] was very good,” Jackson said. “[western michigan] killed penalties and blocked a lot of shots. we made some changes going into the third that helped. … in the third period we shot the puck and we had a better net presence.” 
The irish were a complete­ly different team sunday night, as they routed western michigan 4-0. 
“it’s the way we need to play at home,” Jackson said. “i am very pleased with the way we played. i would love to be able to say we did the same thing Friday night. we played with a lot more intensity and did a good job with the puck.” 
The irish maintained pos­session most of the game and were able to get out to an early lead in the first period. on a power play, senior defense-man sam calabrese passed the puck to sophomore right-winger austin wuthrich in the offensive zone. wuthrich passed it from the left side of the ice to freshman cen­ter steven Fogarty, who then 
“It’s a huge win because that brutal stretch started [last] Friday. ... Western is a great team and they will be there at the end of the year.”  
Anders Lee 
junior forward 
placed the puck top left shelf past slubowski. The irish are 6-0 when they score first, but 0-2 when they fall behind. 
“it seemed like tonight we had a lot more energy than [western michigan],” lee said. “when you start a game off with a power play goal and you get a lot of shots in the first, you definitely are able to con­trol from the get go.” 
unlike Friday, the irish owned the second period. in the second minute of play, ju­nior right-winger bryan rust was able to make a steal in the offensive zone, wrapped around the net and passed it across the face of the goal to lee, who was able to easily tap it in the open right side of the net. 


costello was the next to get a goal, as he received a pass from Johns threaded between two defenders and put it between slubowski’s legs. slubowski was replaced by freshman goaltender lukas hafner. lee got his second goal of the night when he lobbed the puck into an empty net to ice the game. 
summerhays only faced 14 shots the whole game and was able to come up with the clean sheet, but slubowski and hafner saw 35 shots. 
“[The lack of shots] was due to puck possession,” Jackson said. “people get confused when you have a great defen­sive team like i have had in the past everybody wants to say you play a defensive style, but that’s not true when you possess the puck. and that’s the best way to limit the op­ponent’s opportunities. … our game was more about puck possession than defense.” 
The irish are happy to get the win, lee said, as they continue a tough november stretch at no. 1 boston college and at no. 8 michigan. 
“it’s a huge win because that brutal stretch started [last] Friday,” lee said. “western is a great team and they will be there at the end of the year.” 
The irish begin their gruel­ing road trip in boston, as they look to upset the golden eagles this Friday. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

MEN’S SOccER | nd 4, syracuse 2 
Hodan lifts ND into semifinals 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 

after falling behind 2-0, the no. 5 irish nailed four straight goals to overpower syracuse in the big east quarterfinals saturday. The irish advanced to the conference semifinals to face no. 6 connecticut on Friday. 
notre dame (14-3-1, 5-2-1 big east) captured the victory behind an outstanding perfor­mance from freshman mid­fielder patrick hodan, who had two goals and an assist against the orange (12-6-0, 5-3-0). The four goals scored by notre dame represented the largest offensive output by any irish team in big east tournament play. 
The irish fell behind in the 15th minute when orange senior midfielder Ted cribley deposited the home team’s first goal. The irish trailed 1-0 at halftime and allowed a second goal in the 49th minute, this one to senior midfielder louis clark. orange senior forward lars muller as­sisted on both syracuse scores. 
“we actually didn’t play too badly,” irish coach bobby clark said of his team’s first-half play. “[when they scored the first goal] we were actually attack­ing on their box, and we topped the ball over and they just tran­sitioned very quickly and very well. and then we actually got ourselves in the game and were playing reasonably well 
— couldn’t get any goals but we were playing pretty well. and then halftime i felt pretty good about our situation, even a goal down.” 
The field’s wet conditions played a part in syracuse’s sec­ond goal early in the second half, clark said. 
“[at] the start of the second half, [louis clark] hits a shot, a decent shot, but it was one i think normally patrick wall would save, but he slipped. … he moved to make the save and his foot came out from under him. suddenly we were 2-0 down.” 
clark said he was impressed with his team’s ability to fight back from the deficit in the second half. 
“i thought the team showed excellent character, i mean no­body missed a beat,” he said. “They rolled up their sleeves and got back to business and we re­ally played superbly well in that second period.” 
notre dame managed to put one past syracuse freshman goalkeeper alex bono in the 63rd minute when hodan netted a shot from 15 yards out. nineteen seconds later hodan delivered an assist on irish senior mid­fielder Kyle richard’s goal to even the score. 
in the 77th minute, the fresh­man scored his second goal of the night — and sixth of the sea­son — to put the irish in the lead off an assist from senior forward ryan Finley. Finley finished the night’s scoring with an insur­ance goal in the 84th minute to push the irish advantage to 4-2. Junior forward harrison shipp assisted on the goal, Finley’s team-high 18th of the year. 
“it was great to get the insur­ance goal,” clark said. “harry shipp really did the speed work for that goal and he slipped it to ryan. ryan tucked it away. obviously once it was 4-2 with less than 10 minutes to go it was pretty well all over.” 
after outscoring syracuse 4-1 in the closing period notre dame holds a 32-4 advantage over its opponents in second-half goals this season. 
“our big goals mainly come in the second half,” clark said. “i think games sort of open up, games get split open in the sec­ond period of the game … we’ve got a lot of really creative players … [who] really come into their own at that time. and then of course you’ve got ryan who is a lethal finisher.” 
with a berth in the champi­onship game on the line, blue division no. 3 seed notre dame will take on blue division no. 1 seed connecticut on Friday in the red bull arena in harrison, n.J. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | The observer 


cROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


hiGhlY PuNlikElY | chrisTopher brucKer 

lOWER YOuR ExPEctAtiONS | lenny rago & paTricK cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SuDOku | The mepham group 

hOROScOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: sean combs, 43; matthew mcconaughey, 43; ralph macchio, 51; Kathy griffin, 52. 
Happy Birthday: put your heart on the line and own up to what you want and what you are willing to do in order to get your way. you can resolve unfinished business and disputes if you are sensitive to what everyone involved needs in or­der to move forward. your ability to charm and please others will help you excel. your numbers are 6, 14, 21, 27, 33, 35, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Travel, take on new projects, update your image and interact with others. The more you do, the more you will gain. There are op­portunities waiting for you to discover and with a little enthusiasm and positive motivation, you will find happiness and satisfaction.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you’ve got plenty going for you, but you have to get past negativity that you harbor due to partnerships or the company you are keep­ing. step outside the circle you are in and take a look at the possibilities that are around you. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): if you feel inspired, perfect your ideas until you feel you can introduce what you’ve got to someone who may be interested in what you have to offer. a partnership will form suddenly. a past connection will play a role in your future. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): do what you can to help someone you care about. your assistance will be appreciated and rewarded. don’t let an unpredictable individual ruin your plans. Force is not the way to get what you want, nor is it something you should give in to. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): bide your time. if you don’t get support from the people you deal with regularly, go outside your community to those who think like you do. it’s finding the right fit that will lead to your success. Travel will pay off. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you can master your skills and utilize them to accom­plish something that will impress your friends or the community in which you live. let your creativity flourish and your perceptive intuition guide you. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): emotional spending will be your downfall. put your money into learning or developing greater interest in your plans and your future. idle chatter and talk about what you want to do will get you nowhere. Take action. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): discipline will pay off. Keep your emotions intact, and strive to reach the goals you set regarding your personal life and the way you live. an idea you have can turn into a lucrative endeavor. Trust your instincts and follow your heart. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): change is heading your way, but you must refrain from jumping into something that has the propensity to be risky. it’s what you’ve done in the past and the connections you have made that will help you get ahead now. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you will get constructive feedback if you ask questions and share your findings. it’s what you share with others that will give you the expertise and confidence required to finish what you start. don’t let an unexpected change ruin your plans. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll be pulled in different directions. look at what’s going on around you and size up your personal situation and how you can benefit from what you encounter. protect your heart, your belongings and your reputation.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): you can focus on the positive or get sucked into the negative. back away from unpredictable people who are disagreeable. it’s in your best interest to protect what you have and to spend time with those sympathetic to your needs. 


Birthday Baby: you are entertaining and productive. you are unpredictable, adaptable and live in the moment. 
JuMBlE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
BARAkA BOutS 

Baraka Bouts celebrates 10th anniversary 
Program has provided much-needed aid to Holy Cross Missions in East Africa through fights 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
in swahili, the word “bara­ka” means blessing, prosper­ity or opportunity. 
celebrating its 10th an­niversary this year, baraka bouts has exemplified all three aspects of this term for the last decade. The an­nual charity bouts have been a blessing to many deprived children in uganda, exceed­ingly prosperous in charity and participation and an op­portunity for young women to grow in mind, body and service. 
This year’s 10th annual charity bouts mark the suc­cess of a program and tour­nament that started with humble beginnings, but has become a thriving athletic and charity organization. 
while the women’s box­ing program was founded in 1997, baraka bouts first began in 2002 with char­ity at the core of its mission. From its onset, the proceeds of the annual bouts have as­sisted the education of needy children by supporting the holy cross missions in east africa. 
“baraka bouts has been a blessing to both the notre dame community, but most importantly to st. Joseph’s community in uganda and all the other children in uganda that have benefited from the donations we raise,” senior co-president courtney currier said. 
over its 10-year history, the prosperity of baraka bouts has grown immensely. From fundraising to the actual bouts, the event has recently advanced in many concrete ways. 
“we are now a two-night tournament and we have over a hundred girls partici­pating this year,” senior co-president Kat leach said. “we changed from a power hour to our power 24-hour and raised close to $2,000 this year, which was incredible. i think the boxing gets bet­ter every year. The girls learn more and more and the bouts seem to be more competitive, cleaner and more technical each and every year.” 
These improvements have clearly benefited the chari­table aspect of baraka bouts. last year the club widened the scope of its mission by sup­porting another secondary school in uganda. 
“we actually just expand­ed last year to start send­ing money to the holy cross missions to support two dif­ferent schools,” senior cap­tain brianna Kunycky said. “we used to just support the lakeview secondary school in uganda, but now we also support the st. Joseph’s hill secondary school because we expanded our program to include two bout nights.” 
Though baraka bouts helps many children abroad, the women’s boxing program also has a significant impact on the women stepping into the ring, leach said. 
“i think [baraka bouts] is a really unique notre dame experience,” leach said. 
“not many girls come to this pro­gram having any experi­ence with boxing and it’s an opportunity to chal­lenge themselves, to try something new, to learn a new sport. we come in each and every day and work extremely hard.” 
no one can attest to these benefits of box­ing more than current notre dame professor aimee buccellato, who founded the women’s box­ing program in 1997 and has watched baraka bouts prog­ress over the years. 
“i think it’s fantastic [that 
see beneFiTs PAGE 13 

Boxers learn sport, raise money for charity 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
The large mob of wom­en often seen running around campus will fi­nally step in the ring tonight, as the 10th an­nual baraka bouts will begin in 
Joyce center Fieldhouse. The bouts will feature the 109 fighters, 
ranging from an amateur to veteran skill lev­el, who have gone through months of intense training. senior co-president Kat leach said the fight night is a culmination of numerous hours of practice and spar­ring in order to raise money for the holy cross mission uganda to improve education in seconda r y 
schools. “most often people come in with no experience and you learn from the bottom up and from your peers,” leach said. “The combination of learn­ing and teaching makes for a close knit group. Then there is the service aspect. you are 
not training and then fight­ing for yourself but to help others.” 
senior captain grace spaulding said baraka bouts is much more than the train­ing and fight nights. 
“The baraka bouts stands for the empowerment of peo­ple who can’t,” spaulding said. “it helps educate peo­ple in uganda, who do not have the means to do so. i also appreciate what it has done for women on campus. [baraka bouts] empowers women here at notre dame.” 
leach said this months-long experience of sacri­fice produces an incredible experience for the fighters and the fans. 
“all of the girls who par­ticipate are phenomenal,” leach said. “The girls make the boxing so much fun and everyone has a blast. it’s the most challenging thing i’ve ever been a part of. The fans need to realize that many of the fighters come in having little or no experience and know nothing about boxing. at the fights we see real skill in boxing and technique and showcase what they learn.” 
spaulding said the cap­tains have aimed to teach the girls in all aspects of boxing. 
“we want to make sure they understand the funda­mentals because it is a pretty technical sport,” spaulding said. “we also want to build up [the fighters] confidence and believe in their abil­ity when they go out there [monday].” 
The captains, under the leadership of leach and other co-president senior courtney currier, have gone to great lengths to pair fight­ers in bouts that will make the fights competitive and entertaining, spaulding said. The fighters are paired by ability and size. 
“we spend a lot of time partnering the girls in pair­ings,” spaulding said. “we want to make sure the fights are well matched. it makes for a unique night.” 
leach said the production of baraka bouts is a large group effort. 
“Training and putting on baraka bouts comes from having great co-captains and a legacy of the fights,” leach said. “we have amaz­ing coaches and [captains] sacrifice their training time for others since it is a cause we are really passionate about.” 
The fighters of the box­ing club also come up with interesting and humorous names, which entertains the fans and gives fight night a good atmosphere, leach said. 
“each and every year i’m delighted and surprised at how clever our fighters can be,” leach said. “it’s usually an individual thing, but 
see bouTs PAGE 13 





