The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 40 |  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Once a Belle, always a Belle 
College students, faculty and staff gather Tuesday to remember life of international student 
suv outside the entrance to the with green, they also filled the 
By MEGAN DOYLE 

managing editor college on state route 933. room with stories. during the service, faculty, staff and stu-The crowd that filed quietly dents from notre dame and 

into regina chapel on Tuesday 
filled the room with green — 
they wore bright green shirts 
and pinned small green ribbon 
to their tops. 
They came to remember saint mary’s sophomore Ziqi Zhang. Zhang, 19, who died last week from injuries sustained in an ac­cident between her bike and an 


ELECTION 2012 

green was her favorite color. But even as they filled the chapel 
saint mary’s stood one after an­
other and shared their memo­
ries of an international student 
who had been their friend. 
a resident of regina hall, 

Zhang was a dual-degree stu­dent majoring in mathemat­ics at saint mary’s and taking JULIE HERDER | The Observer 
Students, faculty and staff signed journals on Tuesday to offer see memorial PAGE 5 thoughts and prayers to Zhang’s family. 


Critical issues debated among candidates, students 
Professors analyze, react to Monday’s presidential debate 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 

in the final debate of the 2012 campaign on monday, little contrast emerged between the foreign policies of president Barack obama and former massachusetts gov. mitt romney, leading to what politi­cal science professor sebastian rosato called a “ thoroughly boring” debate.rosato said the debate, moderated by cBs news’ Bob schieffer at lynn university in Boca raton, Fla., was far from contentious. 
see elecTion PAGE 5 



Two students to engage in mock debate tonight 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 

only two days after the presidential candidates squared off against each other for the last time before election day, two students with opposing political views will face each other in a simi­lar fashion. 
at 8 p.m. tonight in mcKenna hall auditorium, one representative from college republicans and one from college democrats will argue their views in a mock 
see deBaTe PAGE 6 
JAQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 

donnelly eyes senate seat in upcoming election 
Joe Donnelly
u.s. representative 

people, it’s about the chal-donnelly said indiana vot-fundamental issues. were to win the race, it would 
By JOHN CAMERON 

news editor 
lenges families face and trying ers’ choice on election day “The choice in this elec-be a departure from a tradition to make everyone’s american 

tion here in indiana is crystal of moderate leaders represent­Editor’s Note: This story is the first in a dream come true — to help be 
clear: it’s a question of who will ing indiana. 
series featuring the race for the Indiana a small part of that,” donnelly 
fight for you and who will fight “he’s an extreme Tea party 
seat in the United States Senate. said. 
for middle class families,” he candidate, and i’ve been — 
on nov. 6, donnelly will face said. “my opponent, richard from the first day i started in 

rep. Joe donnelly sees off with republican indiana mourdock, has said that congress, an independent 
u.s. 

his potential new role as u.s. Treasurer richard mourdock to medicare is unconstitutional, moderate,” he said. “indiana 
senator as an opportunity to become indiana’s next member that social security is uncon­has a long tradition of mod-
help bring the american dream of the u.s. senate and the first 
stitutional and that he doesn’t erate, common sense u.s. to a greater number of hoosiers. notre dame graduate to ever sit believe in bipartisanship.” “[This campaign] is about in the upper house of congress. will come down to a few donnelly said if mourdock see donnelly PAGE 6 

news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 FooTBall PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is the best way to spend $100? 

Ann Anosike 
freshman 
lyons 
“on shoes.” 
Demetrius Murphy 
sophomore 
Keenan 
“Buy a pair of shoes.” 
Liz Troyer 
freshman 
ryan 

“on a shopping spree at Target.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Meryl Pax 
junior 
Badin 
“shoes.” 
Nicholas Troetti 
sophomore 
Knott 
“if you need to spend it on rent, spend it on rent. if you need to spend it on food, spend it on food.” 
Tomas Ramirez 
graduate student 
o’hara grace 
“donating it.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Jillian Barwick Joe wirth Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Bridget Feeney mike monaco sarah swiderski cory Bernard 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Jaqueline o’neill Kevin noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

Carole Masso Zen Meditation Writing Successful Rock Musical: “next Women’s Soccer 
mackenzie sain caroline lang 
Reading 102 Coleman-Morse Grants to normal” Alumni Stadium Eck Visitors Center Center McKenna Hall Washington Hall 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. 
7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. 5:15 p.m.- 6:15 p.m. 9 a.m.- 12 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 10 p.m. ND vs. Syracuse in the 
Corrections 

Contemporary Open to Notre Dame Introductory workshop PEMCo’s fall Big East quarterfinals. 
The observer regards itself as American novelist. students of all faiths. for grant writing. production. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Student Debate Thriller NBA Exhibition Game Film: “Take this Vision Walk 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
McKenna Hall Rolfs Purcell Pavilion Waltz” Fundraiser 
however, recognize that we will make 
8 p.m. -  9:30 p.m. 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. 7 p.m. -  9 p.m. Eck Visitors Center Irish Green 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Arguments for both Learn how to dance Joakim Noah and the 9:30 p.m. -  11:30 p.m. 1:30 p.m. - 5 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
parties from student like Michael Jackson Chicago Bulls face the $4 for students. $15 registration fee. 
we can correct our error. 

representatives. with RecSports. Indiana Pacers. 


Young Democrats Club to host events for election 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
with the presidential election swiftly approaching, the saint mary’s young democrats club is gearing up for the final prepa­rations president obama and republican nominee mitt romney make as the country heads into november. 
senior london lamar, president of young democrats at the college, said she realizes that a great aspect of this election has been social me­dia and how it has taken the elec­tion process to another level. 
“i did my senior comprehensive on how president obama won the 2008 election with social media. you have to look at how, gener­ally, republican supporters are older, middle-aged to older white americans,” lamar said. “Those who support obama tend to be more diverse, young americans. you have to realize that when it comes to social media and tech­nology, the younger generation is adapting more than the older generation.” 
By looking at social media as a way of determining who will win the election, lamar believes that most voters will see that obama leads the race on Twitter and Facebook. 
“his supporters use technol­ogy more because they tend to be younger,” she said. “we are a gen­eration that uses technology in our everyday lives, especially Twitter and Facebook. Those were definite­ly pieces of technology that helped obama win because that is how young people are communicating.” 
lamar noted that romney sup­porters tend to continue to read the newspapers and read magazine. For them, she said, their generation is not adapting to social media be­cause they do not use it as much. 
“For romney, he’s trying to get the younger electorate with the social media; however, fewer sup­porters of his are actually using social media,” lamar said. “he is definitely adapting to social media more though. For example, i was on Twitter monday and i noticed that the romney campaign had bought a Twitter topic as a way to get romney to trend on the social media site. 
“with obama, it takes one tweet with a hashtag to get a topic trend­ing on Twitter. his supporters are more Twitter-savvy than romney’s at this point.” 
while lamar believes social media does have a huge impact on the voting process, she does not think it will necessarily determine the final outcome. 
“it definitely does help to deter­mine how a candidate will reach out to the younger generation though. our generation is moving to use more social media now and more newspapers and magazines are becoming heavily web-based,” she said. “as our technology is get­ting older and we are becoming of voting age, we have to adapt to what we like and what we use the most. 
The young democrats will also be holding some upcoming events for students before the election is underway. The club will be host­ing another phone bank oct. 28 at 7 
p.m. in regina hall. “at the phone bank we call ohio voters to encourage them to make sure they get out an early vote and to encourage them to vote on nov. 6,” lamar said. “ohio is a big crucial swing state, so we want to make sure that we are helping the obama campaign in south Bend contrib­ute to calling ohio voters.” 


a representative from the obama campaign of south Bend brings the club members call logs and scripts for the phone bank. The participants then call the numbers and ask voters questions to help the campaign narrow down and see where obama stands, lamar said. 
“we are also partnering with Feminists united for an elec­tion panel we will be holding next monday from 6 to 7 p.m. located in conference room a of the student center,” lamar said. “we have professor patrick pierce coming to talk about the election. students can come and ask the him ques­tions about what he thinks about the election.” 
students can also ask pierce to help clarify items on the election that they are unsure of still. pierce is the advisor for young democrats at the college. 
“it is a bipartisan event, so any­one can come and ask questions; kind of get a deeper perspective of what the election is about and what the stances are of the two candi­dates,” lamar said. “This is a great event especially for those who are still undecided because the elec­tion is only two weeks away.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Fictional competition to come alive on campus 
dame “tributes” will bravely morbid concept. color, as tributes dodge paint-not only tributes, but also any 
By HANNAH ECKSTEIN 

news writer compete in their very own ver-luckily for these tributes, balls and obstacles on their fellow hunger games fanatics sion of “The hunger games.” event organizer and howard quest for victory. who would like to participate. 
Bringing fictional stories to residence halls will pin stu-hall tribute clare robins has during the competition, the along with confidence, ex-life through events and com-dents against one another to found a more humane way of games will play out as a series tra support from previous at-petition is not an uncommon showcase skill, bravery and sur-determining the true victor. of tournaments. The first set of tendance at the hunger games trend on college campuses. The vival on sunday, oct. 28 from 1 “we certainly weren’t going smaller tournaments will con-events will pay off in sponsor-game of “Quidditch” from the to 5 p.m. during the first annual to replicate the games,” robins sist of six tributes representing ship. Tributes may receive extra harry potter series has been competition. said. “so paintballing seemed three districts, where each dis-paintballs, or early entry in the seen at schools across the coun-as any “hunger games” fan the closest way to simulate trict is a combination of a broth-arena, based on previous points try, “zombies” have been seen knows, the ultimate goal of the them.” er and sister residence hall. The scored. darting across notre dame’s tournament is to kill off op-The arena, located in white victors from each round will as the games draw nearer, campus this past september ponents and to be the last one Field, will be encased in netting then compete in the champi-tributes have starte show-and this month, 30 lucky notre standing in the arena, a rather and receive a new smattering of onship round, which involves ing their excitement for the 

competition. paid adverTisemenT 
“i plan to dominate,” Kevin Katalinic, a tribute from st. edward’s, said, when asked about the upcoming games. 
Katalinic said he has no plans to strategize, but will go into the games riding on the confidence of his raw talent. 
carroll tribute, william murra, said he was “nervous” but “confident in [his] archery skills.” 
rivalries have already worked their way into these games. 
when asked if any tributes looked particularly threat­ening, sorin tribute, Johnny whichard said walsh, Zahm and Fisher pose as threat, and will be the first ones to be “tak­en out.” 
however, not all tributes are as impressed by their competition 
“i looked in a mirror and de­cided that the only competi­tion was myself,” tribute paul Barron said. 
Contact Hannah Eckstein at heckste1@nd.edu 


The oBserver |  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Class travels to civil rights memorials over break 

By ADAM LLORENS 
news writer 
Fall Break is usually a time for students to return to nor­malcy: mom’s specialty dishes, catching up with neighborhood friends and copious amounts of sleeping. For english profes­sor stuart greene’s freshman university seminar class, the week was filled with visitations to the southern poverty law center, the 16th street Baptist church and other historical sites in alabama to engage in experiential learning for their course: “memory, memorials and memorialization of the american civil rights movement.” 
“i have never done this be­fore, even though i have been teaching classes on the civil rights movement for nearly 10 years,” greene said. “a col­league at indiana university-south Bend inspired me who taught a class on the civil rights movement and spent two weeks traveling to montgomery, selma, Birmingham, memphis, nashville and other sites. he called the experience ‘Freedom summer.’” 
greene conducted a tremen­dous amount of research by looking at various guides and discussing with historians about which places to visit and which people the class should meet. 
“everyone was incredibly generous with their time and willingness to spend time with my students and i,” greene said. 
The class received funding from the college of arts and letters’ “Teaching Beyond the classroom” program and from the First year of studies. greene and the students covered ap­proximately 20 percent of the cost for travel, lodging, food and admission fees to muse­ums, institutes and churches. 
“it would have been great going home, but this is a once-in-a-lifetime experience going with your peers and a professor who is an expert on the sub­ject,” said Bryce parker, a stu­dent in the class. “i’m in college once and can go home another time. 
“if we missed out on this ex­perience, we would have asked why did i give this up just to go home? i don’t think any of us regret it.” 


aliska Berry signed up for the course because of the manda­tory alabama trip. 
“it gave me a firsthand ac­count to experience the civil rights movement,” Berry said. “The trip made me learn about my ancestors, what they went through and why i’m here today. it was a humbling experience.” 
austin Bosemer, whose favor­ite experience of the trip was walking through the streets of selma, said the course has tak­en a social activism spin on its historical foundations. 
“i have gotten involved with Take 10, a volunteer program to mentor students in south Bend area schools,” Bosemer said. “Through this, i’m affecting so­cial change in our community.” 
The students said their most memorable experience was meeting Joanne Bland, a tour guide who guided the group through two churches in selma. 
as a nine-year-old, Bland was a peaceful protestor scheduled to march from selma to the state capital in montgomery. however, armed officers car­rying tear gas attacked the demonstrators at the edmund pettus Bridge, forbidding them from reaching montgomery. The infamous day is commonly known as “Bloody sunday.” 
“The march turned the na­tional spotlight on selma and the plight of minorities,” david Katter, another student in the class, said. “she has a lot of built-up rage over that event, which turned into a really mov­ing trip as we walked through selma with her. 
“she asked us, ‘i got you this far, what are you going to do?’ it was a really cool call to action.” 
The semester-long project of the class is to write a 15-page essay concerning the trip, how it affected the students, the im­portance of a chosen memorial and the importance of it. 
some students, like Jas smith, have created individual projects to complement their experiences. 
“i decided to make a website to educate children in the selma area about the pettus Bridge because a lot of them don’t know about it,” smith said. “my project is to reform the teach­ing of history and show why these aspects of civil rights are important.” 
Beyond engaging in an expe­rience hard to fully understand from reading history books, greene said the students en­joyed themselves andscame to­gether a class. 
“The effect on us was great and it was a bonding experi­ence for us all,” he said. 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 



Election 
conTinued From page 1 
“in terms of performance, i think obama by all accounts won the debate — that’s what the polls are showing,” rosato said. “But i think this was just because he seemed more assured, it cer­tainly wasn’t because he won any particular points.” 
political science professor michael desch said romney’s performance paled in compari­son because he did not look the part of commander in chief as much as obama did. 
“The one thing governor romney needed to do was to look presidential on the foreign policy stage,” desch said.  “especially after his missteps on his great european adventure this sum­mer, it was even more imperative for him to establish his bona fi­des, and i don’t think he achieved that last night.” 
This lack of fire can be attrib­uted to the recent laser-focus on domestic issues, rosato said. 
“i think [voters] are very inat­tentive to foreign affairs and the debate was reflective of that,” rosato said.  “i think the debate will have no effect and i think the measure of that is that the can­didates kept trying to talk about domestic policies … there was an awareness in the debate that foreign policy was not going to swing american voters.” 
Though the motivation for guarding the united states’ po­sition as the world’s economic leader is obvious, the candidates used this reasoning as an ex­cuse to revisit domestic politics, rosato said. 
“This debate was about foreign policy, and about a quarter of the air time was taken up with do­mestic policies and saying points again like romney’s $5 million tax cut and obama’s inability to create jobs,” rosato said.  “The question is why did this hap­pen?  if you think about it cyni­cally, they didn’t find anything to disagree with on foreign policy, so they started talking about the domestic economy because at least there they can separate themselves.” 
Few people are voting based on foreign policy, but if that were to be made the deciding factor the choice would be unclear, rosato said. 
“Because [Barack obama’s] hawkish, it’s very difficult for mitt romney to differentiate himself from obama – i mean, what’s he going to say: ‘i would have already attacked iran?’ [or] ‘i would have stayed in iraq longer?’” rosato said.  “There’s nothing he could say — you can’t be more hawkish than obama without sounding as if you want to wander all over the world getting into wars, and no candidate wants to say that.” 
The discussion of the most recent conflicts in syria and the tumult in egyptian government made this awareness of the com­plex role of the u.s. very clear, desch said. 
“The argument that it is a lack of american leadership that was responsible for the muslim Brotherhood government in egypt or the lack of a resolved civil war in syria is not one that you’d want to make seriously: they’re much more complicated issues,” desch said. “in particu­lar, the issue of what you do about the [former egyptian president hosni] mubarak government highlights the complexity of the issue facing the united states, and it was telling that romney was not very critical of president obama [on this issu.].” 
after examining the state­ments by each of the candidates, rosato said he found minor points of difference between the candidates. 
“when they were talking about iran, obama said that an iran with a nuclear weapon is unac­ceptable to the united states, while romney said iran with a nuclear capability is unac­ceptable to the united states,” rosato sad.  “That is a subtle dif­ference that might have bigger implications.” 
political science professor robert Johansen said he believed the most important issue per­taining to u.s. national security is determining how to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destructio.. 


“The two candidates did not significantly disagree last night on how to proceed, although romney had previously sounded more belligerent toward iran and ready to threaten war against iran,” Johansen said.  “romney clearly was moderating his stance to appear more peace­ful than indicated in previous statements.” 
desch said romney’s overall performance did not overcome the strength of obama’s foreign policy record in the debate. 
“i think romney faced two problems: one is that the incum­bent tends to have decided ad­vantages: the president’s been commander-in-chief for four years, the president has a [foreign policy] record and experience that he can point to,” desch said. “The truth of the matter is that there’s not much a challenger can really do that’s different from an incumbent, a lot of foreign poli­cy is determined by factors that would push presidents from any policy in the same direction.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 

umutoni said. “There were big Memorial stones. … she was like, ‘i want a conTinued From page 1 picture there.’ i said, ‘That’s dan­
gerous,’ and she said, ‘let’s take engineering classes at notre a chance.’ i was so scared, but dame. she was a resident of she wasn’t. Jiangsu province in china. “That was Ziqi.” 
international student ariane umotoni asked the saint umutoni met Zhang shortly mary’s community to come to-after the two arrived at saint gether as a family during a time mary’s. she remembered Zhang of need and grief. as fearless while they discovered “we need you,” she said. america together. “some of us are far from home. 
“i remember going to the you cannot imagine how my beach with her in michigan,” family is feeling to know that 
paid adverTisemenT 

they have not seen me in so long and such a thing can happen. we need each and every one here. 
“we’ll hold hands, mourn to­gether, cry together, share mem­ories and just be a family,” she said. 
The stories from Zhang’s friends prompted both tears and laughter during the service. 
paige edmonds was Zhang’s resident assistant during her freshman year. she joked about a resident she said was both cu­rious and warm. 
“she was one of those fresh­man that the questions you think you’re never gonna get asked as an ra, she asked them,” edmonds said. “she was the type of resident who when you had a section event, would come knock on my door the next day and ask where everyone was. But she definitely challenged me to grow as a person. … remember her smile.” 
saint mary’s graduate chen chen recalled a story she heard about Zhang before the two had even met. a mutual friend brought Zhang to pick up the keys to her dorm room on her first day at saint mary’s, but when they went to open the door, they had some trouble with the lock. 
“Ziqi just whipped out a toolkit … and started seriously work­ing on trying to break into her room,” chen said. “so i got really excited, and the first thing that came to my mind, i got to tell this story to dr. Barstis, who is the engineering advisor, to let him know that we have a student who has the right engineering spirit. 
… That’s basically how she got to the engineering program.” 
other professors and friends recalled Zhang as constantly smiling and always willing to push her limits for new experi­ences. They talked about an ex­cellent student newly fascinated by philosophy and dedicated to her studies. They remembered a girl excited to return home to china over winter break for the first time since she had left for college. 
notre dame sophomore christine nie said she came from the same city as Zhang in china, but only met her after they came to south Bend. she remembered feeling at home hearing Zhang speak their first language with the same distinct accent as her family members and friends in china. 
“i thought even though she couldn’t stay in this beautiful world, as a girl of the same age and of the same city and of simi­lar background, i can live this life for her,” she said through tears. 
elaine meyer-lee, direc­tor of the center for women’s intercultural leadership (cwil), read an email from Zhang’s parents to dr. alice yang, director for global educa­tion. another chinese-speaking professor had translated the letter. 
“we lost our precious daugh­ter,” they wrote. “she was our pride and joy. she longed for this wonder country of america, and we wish that she could have completed her studies, learned the sciences and humanities so that she could have played a worthy role in the betterment of the entire human race.” 
college president carol ann mooney also wore bright green as she addressed the crowd gathered in the chapel. 
“each of us has lost a sis­ter,” mooney said. “it is ter­ribly difficult to lose a young person with so much talent and so much promise. Ziqi’s death leaves a hole in the saint mary’s community.” 
Zhang’s family is working to obtain passports and visas to come to the united states, mooney said. donations to help the family with funeral and trav­el expenses may send donations to Karen Johnson, vice presi­dent of student affairs, in 175 le mans hall. checks should be payable to saint mary’s college and indicate in the memo line that the donation is for the Ziqi Zhang family. 
“For her family, this is an un­speakable grief. … our hearts break for her parents, her sister and her good friends and family in china,” mooney said. 
student affairs is also collect­ing notes for Zhang’s family at the same address. The notes will be translated and delivered to her family when they arrive in the united states. 
“when they arrive on our campus, we will make every ef­fort to let them know how valued Ziqi was, what a positive contri­bution to saint mary’s she was and that she had a home here.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


The oBserver |  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2012  | ndsmcoBserver.com 


Donnelly 
conTinued From page 1 
moderate, common sense u.s. senators like richard lugar and evan Bayh, and that’s the tra­dition that i have served in the house and i intend to serve in the united states senate.” 
having worked in the private sector and other public roles in indiana before his 2006 election to the house of representatives representing the district in­cluding south Bend, donnelly said a continued focus on his indiana roots best prepares him to represent the state in washington. 
“i think the most important thing is working back home in indiana for 27 years in just a regular job, helping to run a printing business, practicing law and everyday raising my family back home,” he said. donnelly said the campaign for senate has differed from his experience campaigning for and serving in the house of representatives because of the broader constituency he’s got­ten in touch with. 
“it’s a chance to meet even more people from our state and see the incredible amount of diversity we have – in people, in geography – but at the end of the day, we’re so similar in that we want a job, to see our family have a wonderful life, and to see our country grow stronger,” he said. “in that way, all hoosiers are the same.” 
as the media continues to maintain a major role in elec­tions, donnelly said the cover­age has been more of an asset than a challenge. 
“i just look at it as a chance to talk to people from our state,” he said. “when i’m talking to [the media], i’m talking to the people of our state. so i look at them as a positive, a chance to continue the conversation, and a chance to hear what people think.” a 1987 gradu­ate of the university7rand a 1991 graduate of the notre dame law school, donnelly said the university has played a crucial role in his personal development. 
“notre dame has helped shape who i am as a person. i’ve known so many wonderful priests at notre dame, have been able to go to school with so many extraordinary people and have been taught by so many wonderful professors,” he said. “it’s helped shape who i am. i met my wife at notre dame. my children went to notre dame.” 
donnelly said he has been thankful for the level of politi­cal engagement by notre dame students and alumni. 
“in the past i’ve had interns working in our congressional office almost every semester, a number of notre dame grads serve on my staff — both on the campaign staff and on the congressional staff. what we’ve seen is the talent level and ability of graduates from the university is off the charts,” he said. “i feel very lucky … we have a lot of Fighting irish do­ing a lot of extraordinary work.” 
donnelly said notre dame students with political ambi­tion should pursue those as­pirations, but said those who don’t see themselves as leader­ship material should keep an ear open for the call to lead. 
“i just practiced law here, worked at a small business, and hadn’t ever thought of running for congress. one day, i was blessed to have friends who talked to me about it, and it de­veloped,” he said. “don’t feel any pressure to have to do it one day or the next day … being a part of notre dame, you have the confidence, the ability and the talent to make anything come true.” 
donnelly’s last bit of lead­ership advice comes from university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh. 
“i’ve always tried to keep Fr. hesburgh in my heart. he al­ways said whenever you have a decision to make, do the right thing,” donnelly said. “That’s the notre dame way, and that’s what i try to do.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


Debate 
conTinued From page 1 
debate, each in an attempt to convince the audience why their respective candidates would be the best choice for college students. 
scholastic editor-in-chief clara ritger, who will moder­ate the debate, said the event hopes to generate excitement for the election and increase awareness of current impor­tant issues. 
“i think students do really at heart want to be able to participate in this election,” she said. “This is, for every­one, the first presidential election they can vote in, and this will just help them be­come more informed.” 
The 90-minute debate will spend 15 minutes on each of six key topics that include jobs, debt, healthcare, reli­gion, foreign policy and why a college student should vote for a certain candidate. 
“what we’re trying to do with the last question is for the two students … to really persuade the audience about why they feel strongly about each of their respective candidates,” ritger said. “we’re really trying to focus on the issues as they relate to college students and why one candidate or the other better represents college students’ interests.” 
each participant will be given two minutes at the be­ginning of each segment for 
“I think students do really at heart want to be able to participate in this election ... This is, for everyone, the first presidential election they can vote in, and this will just help them become more informed.” 
Clara Ritger 
Editor-in-Chief 
Scholastic 
an opening statement, and the remaining 11 minutes will allow for debate. 
senior adam newman, a member of the college democrats, will argue on behalf of president obama at tonight’s event. 
“i’m a huge politics guy, and i’m really engaged in this election,” he said. “i know president obama’s vision is the vision i support in this election. anything i can do to help make sure the notre dame student body is in­volved is something impor­tant to me.” 
although newman did not expect to be the sole democratic debater when he volunteered to participate, he said he is looking forward to taking the stage. in prep­aration, he has memorized both opening and closing statements, as well as several talking points for “every­thing they could throw at” him. 
“it is important to stay on the message,” newman said. “one of the hardest things about these debates is be­ing able to disseminate so much information and put it in a clear form students can understand.” 
senior mickey gardella, president of the college republicans, said he has spent copious amounts of time researching in preparation for the debate. 
“my primary goal is to ar­ticulate mitt romney’s pre­vious experience and vision for america’s future, and how these make him the best choice to be our president on January 20,” he said. 
gardella, who has been in­volved in political debates before, said he is eagerly anticipating this evening’s event as well. 
leading up to the debate, students can vote in a mock presidential election, which is sponsored every four years by “scholastic” and ndTv. voting will take place be­tween 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. in the laFortune student center, and from 8 p.m. to 10 
p.m. in mcKenna hall. 
The  ballot  will  include  
a  candidate  from  college  
libertarians,  which chose  

not to present a debater. 
The vote aims to teach stu­dents about the process of voting in an election, ritger said. For example, although voting is anonymous, stu­dents are required to show a student id, much like how several states are now re­quiring voter identification. 
“The mock election is really well-received,” ritger said. “it’s really easy, it’s low-cost, it’s very fast to go and do. students are pretty enthusi­astic about it because they want to see how their fellow students vote.” 
ritger hopes the debate and vote will encourage stu­dents to participate in the actual presidential election on nov. 6. 
“This president is going to be the president that we go into the workforce with,” she said. “we will all graduate in the next four years and it’s their policies that will really determine what percentage of our class is going to get jobs.” 
after college students greatly influenced the 2008 election, ritger said she would love to see next month’s election mimic that. 
“i would love to see us have a real hand in the 2012 elec­tion,” she said. “we have the potential to be a voting body that they didn’t expect to come out on voting day. it’s going to be a close race, it’s all about who comes out.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 



Body of missing girl found in recycling bin 
Associated Press 
clayTon, n.J. — a teenage boy lured a 12-year-old girl into his house under the guise of getting parts for her treasured bicycle and then, with his older brother, killed her, police said Tuesday. The girl’s disappear­ance had sparked a frantic search by residents of her small town until a tip from the boys’ mother led police to her body, stuffed into a home recycling bin. 
The boys, ages 15 and 17, were charged with murdering autumn pasquale, who disap­peared while riding her BmX bike saturday, a little more than a week before what would have been her 13th birthday. she ap­peared to have been strangled, gloucester county prosecutor sean dalton said at a late-day news conference. 
The boys’ mother had come forward with information about a posting on a son’s Facebook ac­count, dalton said. he wouldn’t say what was on the website or discuss a possible motive for the killing, but said there was no sign of sexual assault. 
autumn was lured to the house, where they apparently lived with their mother and step­father, for the purpose of getting parts for her treasured BmX bike, which she rode frequently and talked about on her Facebook pages. 
Both brothers were charged with counts including first-de­gree murder, body disposal and tampering with evidence. The 15-year-old was also charged with luring. 
The boys’ names were not re­leased because they are juve­niles, but dalton said his office is considering trying to have the case transferred to adult court. The boys turned themselves in with their attorneys, public de­fenders, but it could not be im­mediately determined who they are. 
The girl’s body was found around 10 p.m. monday in a re­cycling bin on a vacant property next to the home where the boys live, police said. The suspects had attended a community vigil for her shortly before the discov­ery, several residents said. 


autumn’s BmX bike and other belongings were recovered from the boys’ home, the prosecu­tor said. he did not detail all the items, but a backpack matching a description of the girl’s was also seen being taken out. 
one of the three teenage broth­ers who friends said live at the house traded BmX bike parts, ac­cording to a according to a young man, corey hewes, 19, who said he was among those who traded with him. 
neighbors also said the house was a place where teens frequently hung out and had parties. 
The home is just blocks from autumn’s house and from the town hall, where thousands of people gathered for the tear­ful candlelight vigil to pray for her safe return in this town of 8,000 about 25 miles south of philadelphia. 
“The search for autumn is over,” dalton said Tuesday morn­ing in the first of two news con­ferences, at which he was asked to assure residents they were safe with apparent an apparent child-killer on the loose. 
The girl’s great-uncle, paul spadofora, thanked the commu­nity for its help in the search. 
“There’s evil everywhere, even in the small town of clayton,” spadofora said. 
Tuesday was trash collection day, and many residents had dragged their trash cans and re­cycling bins to the curb the night before. The covered recycling bins are collected by an auto­mated truck that picks them up and dumps the contents into the back. 
police barricaded the block Tuesday morning, and friends and neighbors came by. some mothers said they were keeping their kids out of school for the day. even before the body was found, students reported that spirit week had been canceled because of the sorrow. 
one young man rode a bike up, sat on a porch of a home and cried, then biked away. 
clayton mayor Thomas Bianco walked to the scene, cried, hugged a police officer and gave a brief statement to the gathered reporters. 
“you hear about it in other places but never think it would happen in our little town,” he said. 
autumn was last seen around 
12:30 p.m. saturday pedaling her bike away from the home where she lives with her father, her two siblings, her father’s girlfriend and the girlfriend’s children, au­thorities said. 
relatives said they believed she was heading to see a friend, and they became worried only after she did not return by her 8 


p.m. curfew. 
sunday morning, her disap­pearance became not only a crisis but a town-wide cause in clayton. volunteers by the hun­dred joined the search, scouring malls, nearby towns and passing out fliers. 
By monday evening, officials were thanking the volunteers for their help but asking them to call it a night. 
hundreds of people returned anyway for the vigil. spadofora, the great-uncle, said he hoped the town could gather again a week later, with autumn back, with candles to mark her birthday. 
instead, the community awoke Tuesday to news that her body had been recovered. 
“i know a lot of you are angry over what has happened, and deservedly you have a right to be angry,” dalton said at day’s end. “i hope today there is some mea­sure of closure, and we can all mourn in the loss of this beauti­ful child.” 

u.s. may become world’s top oil producer 
Associated Press 
new yorK — u.s. oil out­put is surging so fast that the united states could soon over­take saudi arabia as the world’s biggest producer. 
driven by high prices and new drilling methods, u.s. production of crude and other liquid hydrocarbons is on track to rise 7 percent this year to an average of 10.9 million barrels per day. This will be the fourth straight year of crude increas­es and the biggest single-year gain since 1951. 
The boom has surprised even the experts. 
“Five years ago, if i or any­one had predicted today’s pro­duction growth, people would have thought we were crazy,” says Jim Burkhard, head of oil markets research at ihs cera, an energy consulting firm. 
The energy department fore­casts that u.s. production of crude and other liquid hydro­carbons, which includes bio-fuels, will average 11.4 million barrels per day next year. That would be a record for the u.s. and just below saudi arabia’s output of 11.6 million barrels. citibank forecasts u.s. produc­tion could reach 13 million to 15 million barrels per day by 2020, helping to make north america “the new middle east.” 
The last year the u.s. was the world’s largest producer was 2002, after the saudis drasti­cally cut production because of low oil prices in the aftermath of 9/11. since then, the saudis and the russians have been the world leaders. 
The united states will still need to import lots of oil in the years ahead. americans use 
18.7 million barrels per day. But thanks to the growth in domestic production and the improving fuel efficiency of the nation’s cars and trucks, imports could fall by half by the end of the decade. 
The increase in production hasn’t translated to cheaper gasoline at the pump, and pric­es are expected to stay relative­ly high for the next few years because of growing demand for oil in developing nations and political instability in the middle east and north africa. 
still, producing more oil do­mestically, and importing less, gives the economy a significant boost. 
The companies profit­ing range from independent drillers to large international oil companies such as royal dutch shell, which increas­ingly see the u.s. as one of the most promising places to drill. exxonmobil agreed last month to spend $1.6 billion to increase its u.s. oil holdings. 
increased drilling is driving economic growth in states such as north dakota, oklahoma, wyoming, montana and Texas, all of which have unemploy­ment rates far below the na­tional average of 7.8 percent. north dakota is at 3 percent; oklahoma, 5.2. 
Businesses that serve the oil industry, such as steel compa­nies that supply drilling pipe and railroads that transport oil, aren’t the only ones ben­efiting. homebuilders, auto dealers and retailers in energy-producing states are also get­ting a lift. 
ihs says the oil and gas drill­ing boom, which already sup­ports 1.7 million jobs, will lead to the creation of 1.3 million jobs across the u.s. economy by the end of the decade. 
“it’s the most important change to the economy since the advent of personal com­puters pushed up productivity in the 1990s,” says economist philip verleger, a visiting fel­low at the peterson institute of international economics. 
The major factor driving do­mestic production higher is a newfound ability to squeeze oil out of rock once thought too difficult and expensive to tap. drillers have learned to drill horizontally into long, thin seams of shale and other rock that holds oil, instead of searching for rare under­ground pools of hydrocarbons that have accumulated over millions of years. 
To free the oil and gas from the rock, drillers crack it open by pumping water, sand and chemicals into the ground at high pressure, a process is known as hydraulic fracturing, or “fracking.” 
while expanded use of the method has unlocked enor­mous reserves of oil and gas, it has also raised concerns that contaminated water produced in the process could leak into drinking water. 

The oBserver | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
You have the right to remain silent

INSIDE COLUMN 

hating halloween 

Sara Shoemake 
graphic designer 

i hate to be negative, but it’s the worst time of the year. sure, our football team is ranked no. 5 in the nation and there’s an important election coming up, but it’s also time for halloween. 
i’ll just go ahead and say it: halloween is the worst holiday. i dis­like it more than a single girl hates valentine’s day, and, trust me, i’ve been there too. it’s not for the “it’s the one night a year when a girl can dress like a total slut, and no other girls can say anything about it” reason like you might think. 
picture a chubbier, four-year-old ver­sion of the headshot at the top of this column. it’s halloween night. i had no neighborhood friends (i don’t want to talk about it), and my brother, seven years my senior, devoted most of his free time to pretending i didn’t exist. so my dad agreed to watch me from the end of each driveway while i begged neighbors for candy at their doors. admittedly, i was a shy little kid and the thought of approaching adults without a parent by my side paralyzed me with fear. it also went against everything i had ever been taught: never talk to strangers, especially those with candy. 
and so, as i approached the first house, i threw up on a tree. ever since, halloween has left me with a bad taste in my mouth. 
it seems like everyone else i know thinks halloween is the best holiday, citing free candy, costumes and haunt­ed houses. Trick-or-treating obviously hasn’t gone so well for me in the past, i generally associate wigs and masks with a musty and unpleasant smell, and i am the biggest wimp when it comes to scary things. “The ring” haunts me to this day, and i watched “paranormal activity” while reading the wikipedia plot summary on my phone so i knew what bad things were coming before they happened on screen. halloween just seems to embody everything i dis­like. if the greeting card industry or whoever is in charge of holidays could somehow incorporate mcdonald’s chicken nuggets, one direction or other things i enjoy, i would probably appre­ciate the holiday a little bit more. i ac­knowledge that is a rather selfish notion and i don’t see any of that happening anytime soon, so i’ll go along on that trip to goodwill for a costume, and i won’t protest when my roommates hang up halloween decorations in our room. 
i would just like everyone to know, while most people count down the days until october 31, i’ve got a countdown going for october 29. That would be the day one direction’s new single is re­leased because, yes, i’m that girl. 
Contact Sara Shoemake at sshoemak@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Blake J. Graham 
erudite Techno-lust 

There’s nothing like a good election season to bring out the best in pseudo-intellectual political commentary pub­lished in the form of tweets and Facebook status updates — i mean this in the least condescending way. it really is a good thing. people with access to tools like Facebook and Twitter have assumed the role of micro-reporters, mini-commenta­tors and nano-journalists (in that order.) 
everyone has a vehicle of distribution and some form of audience, whether it’s 50 friends or 50,000 followers. The trajec­tory is common: someone sees or reads or listens to something that strikes them with high impact, be it positive or nega­tive, and then they interpret it and post it to their audiences via social media. it doesn’t really need to be factual or rel­evant or well thought-out to have their audiences respond to or engage with it. it just has to be out there. and most people, 
i.e. americans, who do this, consider it their right to express whatever they like online. They’re simply evoking their free­dom of speech and expression. 
online, it seems, people are more inclined to extend their understanding of freedom of expression beyond what it actually protects, a practice which has hurt many, ruined careers and even cost lives. 
in the last couple weeks, a major con­troversy has erupted around social link­ing site reddit.com. For the uninitiated, reddit is a website were users can submit links to different categories called sub­reddits. users can up- or down-vote links pushing them to wider audiences on the site. There are currently 10,000 active sub-reddits with their own audiences, and the site drove 3.4 billion pageviews in august alone. Further adding to the site’s legitimacy, president Barack obama held a Q&a-type discussion on the site to reach voters in august. while most of the site is dedicated to amicable pursuits with sub-reddits in topics of inquiry in academic fields, random cat pictures, local politics or the mildly off-color pooping sub-reddit, there also exists a seedy and dark underground to the site driving a huge portion of traffic in and out of the site. 
as reddit gains popularity, its dark side — which includes the recently shut­tered “creepshots” sub-reddit where covertly shot pictures of women are up­loaded to the site for its users to ogle — is expected to be eradicated from the site. 
But creepshots isn’t the first unseemly sub-reddit to gain notoriety and it cer­tainly won’t be the last. many of the site’s users hide behind its anonymity and cry out about the obstruction of free speech whenever particular sub-reddits are threatened. 
The concept of being able to speak freely online is very important to its denizens. 
and, unfortunately, companies like reddit are only as useful as their active users are present, which is why it is their policy that the creator of any sub-reddit acts as its moderator and, by definition, more-or-less its dictator. The creator of a sub-reddit called creepshots isn’t likely to ban much of the unseemly content that gets put there. 
in most realms things like libel, slander, obscenity and sedition limit the freedom of expression. But online people operate under a veil of anonym­ity and the boundaries constantly are pushed. currently there hasn’t been a cause to transplant moral standards onto online communities which has cre­ated toxic environments within larger systems, like reddit as a whole. reddit has constantly refused to issue blanket bans on types of content that include compromising photos of women and hate speech. They base this decision on fundamental premise of supporting free speech, but the nature of that claim is nebulous at best. 
currently no legal action has been taken against reddit, or other sites like Tumblr, Twitter and Facebook which all have similar content spread on them. But if reddit can’t ultimately get its act together, there will be cause for the gov­ernment to come in and intervene on behalf of the people who are threatened by the images and language posted on-line — much of which is incredibly dam­aging. The problem is any regulation is bound to also stop the growth of all the good coming out of these sites as well. 
Blake J. Graham is a sophomore. He can be reached at bgraham2@nd.edu or on Twitter @BlakeGraham. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
what would you ask the presidential
“Keep away from people who try to belittle your 
candidates if you moderated the debate? 
ambitions. small people always do that, but the really great make you feel that you, too, can become great.” 
Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll
Mark Twain 

U.S. humorist & author by 5 p.m. on Thursday 


The oBserver | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Cracking the Career Center 
Rose Kopec 
@ndcareercenter 

what am i going to do after college? 
is there really life after college? 
am i really supposed to know what i want to do for the rest of my life? 
These are just a few of the questions that many college students ask them­selves throughout their college careers, and while there is not always a defini­tive answer to every question, we at the career center are here to help guide you through some of those tough ques­tions and help you to understand your skills, personality, values, strengths and how they can translate to success upon graduation from notre dame. 
so before we try to delve into what are you going to do with the rest of your life and if life after college really ex­ist (yes, it does), let’s just focus on the basics. 
what is the career center and why should i go there? how can you help me? 
There is a common misconcep­tion that the career center is geared towards a specific major or college or year. But whether you know exactly what you want to do after graduation or have no idea what direction to pursue, 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

meatless madness 
dear dining halls and all involved, 
i readily applaud your effort to go “meatless” as a protest against the abuses of factory production of the meat we eat. however, i think you’re making this more complicated than you have to. you see, there are still some of us who observe a certain day of the week as “meatless.” That day for us is Friday because this has been the tradi­tional day to abstain from meat in the catholic church. This tradition contin­ues in the annual meatless Fridays that the dining halls have during lent. if we really want to go meatless on one day of the week, why don’t we just do the same day year round and make it Friday? not only would this give the system simplicity but it would also tie into longstanding traditions. notre dame is known for its traditions. let’s not drop the ball on this one. 
Nathaniel Gotcher 
senior morrissey manor oct. 22 

the career center has valuable re­sources available to help you. it really is about you and what you need when you come visit us at the career center. we want students to feel comfortable com­ing to us with any of their career con­cerns. in fact, there are no questions that are too silly or unimportant or irrelevant to ask. sometimes the ques­tions are as easy as “will you look at my resume?” at other times the questions aren’t quite so black and white and require longer, more in-depth appoint­ments. sometimes the questions just need to be asked and heard. more times than not, we simply provide some basic guidelines and encouragement. it truly doesn’t matter what you major in or if you are a senior and have never been to the career center — if you need help, we hope to be there for you. 
where is the career center? 
That’s an easy one — we are located on the first and second floor of Flanner hall — although you will find us all over campus at different times of the year. For example this week we are hosting our annual arts and letters career opportunities week in col­laboration with the college of arts and letters. Tonight we will be in the monogram room at the Joyce center hosting over 16 employers who are interested in talking to arts and letters students about opportunities within their organizations. 
Tomorrow night we are back in 114 Flanner hall with an investment management night in which six firms will discuss the roles of an analyst and trends in investment management. 
how can you get involved with the career center? 
First, you can make an appointment to meet with a counselor. Just call (574) 631-5200, and student workers trained to ask all of the right questions will place you with the right counselor. 
second, if you’re more of the im­pulsive type or need a simple resume review, just walk right into the center on the second floor of Flanner the next afternoon you’re on the northeast side of campus. we hold walk-in appoint­ments every monday through Friday from 1 p.m. to 4:45 p.m. 
Third, create an account on go irish. not only does it provide you access to hundreds of on-campus in­terviews but it also posts several job, internship, volunteer and fellowship opportunities. 
Fourth, read those weekly emails! They contain information about up­coming career workshops, information sessions with employers coming to campus and approaching job and in­ternship deadlines. 
Finally, find the career center on social media. This is another way to stay in the loop with upcoming events and even find some little-known job-seeking tips in your Facebook newsfeed or Twitter feed. 
Final notes on the”tough” questions. 
This time in your life is about explor­ing. some might know what they want between the ages of 18 and 22, but most don’t. even that first job or service ex­perience or walk into your first class at graduate school is just the beginning of many career decisions you will be mak­ing in your life. rarely is this ever final, and you always learn from each and every experience — both the positive and not-so-positive experiences. 
yet, you have to take that first step, that first proverbial leap. and it will be okay! 
please come in and meet with us to discuss those beginning questions. 
Welcome to the @NDCareerCenter Column. Please let us know if you have any questions you would like covered in the column. Email us ndcps@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

The myth of the death of print 
Jesse Rifkin 
The daily campus 

newsweek magazine has published its print edition every week since 1933. last Thursday, it announced its last print edi­tion will publish in december. is this a reflection of print media in the modern era? yes and no. But mostly no. 
yes in the sense that, obviously, the internet was not a factor 20 years ago and before. and yes in the sense that print media will never again be the biggest thing around like it was in a by­gone era – much as radio will never again be the biggest thing around. 
But no in the sense that this predominantly reflects on newsweek itself as opposed to the state of print media. newsweek completely lost its way over the last few years, tak­ing a sharp turn from respectable news to showcase of sensa­tionalism and controversial covers. would a trustworthy news source publish a magazine cover on “The 101 best places to eat in the world” featuring a woman opening her mouth to eat a long piece of food in an obvious insinuation of oral sex? or their cover of the commander-in-chief with a rainbow colored halo over his head alongside the headline “The first gay president?” 
contrast this with Time magazine, which has long played the role of newsweek’s “older brother,” if you will. Time is also in some aspects a shadow of its former self: for example, adding a regular humor column by Joel stein to a magazine that formerly never would have considered such an item. But consider Kurt andersen’s article “The protestor” from last december as Time’s annual selection for person of the year. he spent two months traveling around the world nonstop working on this one story, with the result being perhaps the best journalistic article of last year. For all its faults, Time’s quality never sunk as low as newsweek. and the results showed: while virtually no print publication actually gained circulation over the past decade, newsweek dropped 52.2% percent since 2000, while since 1997 Time only dropped 19.5 percent. 
as a parallel, look at a similar situation from decades ago and closer to home: the hartford Times ceased publication in 1976. seemingly, if anything, the opposite should have happened. This was right after watergate, when newspaper subscriptions increased. and this was during that great middle era, when television was already established and proven not to have killed the newspaper industry as once feared, but the internet was still a ways off. so why did the hartford Times fail? The answer is complex, but the biggest reason is simple: the newspaper lost its way. The hartford courant, which already did investigative reporting, doubled down on it during the immediate post­watergate period. and, as occurred when capitalism works its magic, the courant survived and the Times did not. 
as i see it, a comparable situation is what happened with newsweek today. is it partially the modern ipad, internet, and smartphone environment? no doubt. i am a print media aficio­nado, but facts are facts. however, there is also the critical factor that the quality of newsweek, like the hartford Times, started to drastically decline. 
in fact, historically speaking, this is a relatively decent time for print newspapers and magazines. many other periods were far worse. Television in the 1950s likely came closer to killing the print industry than the internet has thus far. if people could see the news occurring visually for free, so the reasoning went, then why would they only read about the news at a monetary cost? yet the industry survived. and throughout the 1970s and 1980s, many major cities went from having two or three major news­papers to just one. 
in a free market, some businesses succeed and some busi­nesses fail. That is simply the nature of things. newsweek had a 79-year run and eventually it failed. in a perfect world, no com­pany or product would ever go out of business and everyone would be happy. But are print newspapers and print magazines failing left and right? since around 2000 or so, naysayers have said, “Just you see, this will be the year all print publications die!” and a few indeed have, newsweek among them. 
But the death of print journalism is a myth. some critics are quick to jump on the discontinuation of newsweek as a sign of the death of print journalism. in fact, it is nothing more than the death of newsweek. 
This column originally ran in the Oct. 22 issue of The Daily Campus, serving the University of Connecticut. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The oBserver |  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2012  | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
scene writer 
if you want to be on the edge of your seat from beginning to end, “sinister” is the movie for you this halloween. 
That’s not to say it doesn’t have most of the horror movie clichés 
— a house haunted by dead chil­dren, a dark attic that goes bump in the night, electronics that in­explicably turn themselves on, a protagonist who walks around with the lights off at night and so forth. But that doesn’t mean you won’t be scared when bad things happen or won’t be horrified and tense by the things that make the movie different and truly disturbing. 
“sinister” follows a true crime writer and his family as they move yet again to a small town so he can write about unsolved crimes. The town, especially the police department, is tense and unwelcoming at his arrival, not wanting to reopen the wounds of the murders he is writing about. he makes the brilliant choice of actually moving his family into the house of the murder vic­tims, where an entire family was hanged by a tree in the backyard. 
everything starts to go wrong when he finds a box of super 8 films and a projector in the at­tic. The films begin as harmless home videos, followed by entire families being murdered in their own homes. The grainy, ama­teur videos put a creeping terror into the audience that is hard to shake, even after the movie is over. although these murders are not very bloody or violent, they are too realistic and domes­tic for comfort; there is some­thing truly disturbing about seeing a mother, father and child being drowned in their own swimming pool or set on fire in the family car. 
The horror of these videos doesn’t stop with just images either. while it is a staple of hor­ror films for the audio to be the source of the scares, the score of “sinister” goes a step further. The strange, unusual and un­deniably creepy accompanying soundtrack burns the videos both into your mind’s eye and ear. “sinister” may use forgetta­ble horror movie clichés, but the videos are something you’ll nev­er be able to forget once you see them. if you don’t think you can stomach the home videos, don’t go — they’re shown frequently throughout and are a huge part of the plot of the film. 
don’t come if you can’t handle constant tension either.  unlike most horror movies that begin with an ordinary introduction of characters and locations or has safe moments in the day­light, “sinister” never gives the audience a break. The tone is set from the first second of the film with the home video of a family being hanged. even when chat­ting at the dinner table with the kids, the shadowy lighting all throughout the film gives the audience an impending sense of danger. movies like “paranormal activity” tease you by leading you to expect something when noth­ing actually happens; “sinister” makes you feel like something is always wrong. 
in a way, something is always wrong: those videos can never been unseen by the protagonist, but you’ve seen them now too. The power of the supernatural comes from the viewing of the films, much like “The ring,” and the audience is part of the viewing too. 
“sinister” is a well-made hor­ror movie for using cinematog­raphy together with content to keep the audience constantly uneasy. amateur murder videos, a reappearing demonic figure and a haunted house would sat­isfy horror movie demands. But “sinister” makes every scene an ominous one by lighting only what is necessary in a scene, leaving all the rest to shadows. even a cheerful family dinner is creepy when only the table is lit, everything else hidden in dark­ness. The daytime isn’t much better when the house only seems to be lit by dim natural lighting, still casting shadows everywhere. 
The creepy score plays on even when the videos end. rarely does the music allow you to feel safe, like you’ve escaped the possibil­ity of something terrible happen­ing or that something isn’t about to startle you out of your wits at any second. 
The plot may be predictable enough for the genre, but to­gether with the dilemmas of the characters, it will keep you entertained as you try to solve the mystery alongside the pro­tagonist. you might guess how it ends, but it won’t stop you from being shocked when you see it. with many of its producers from “paranormal activity,” it blends the home video element together with the creepy, mystery-solving element of “The ring,” to give the film a relevant plot that in­stills an uncomfortable sense of terror. 
if you’re a brave soul, see it at night. you might be able to sleep, but that doesn’t mean you’ll be able to control what you see when you close your eyes. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
“Sinister” 
Director: Scott Derrickson 
Studio: Alliance Films 
Starring: Ethan Hawke, Juliet Rylance and James Ransone 


woody harrelson, a gangster 
By KEVIN NOONAN 

scene editor who kills just about anyone and 
everyone who gets in the way of 

it’s violent, messy, vulgar, getting his dog back. gruesome and side-splittingly The movie devolves into a sort hilarious. of metaphysical tongue-in-cheek 
“seven psychopaths,” a dark, critique of the action movie dark, dark (seriously, it’s dark) genre, and then reverts to a shoot British comedy from the mind ‘em up for the climax, the results of irish playwright martin of which are in line with the dark mcdonagh released october 12, undercurrents of the script. is without a doubt the funniest, if This is mcdonagh’s second strangest, film of 2012 so far. outing as screenwriter and di­
colin Farrell stars as marty rector of a feature film, following Faranan, an alcoholic irish 2008’s “in Bruges,” also starring screenwriter living in california colin Farrell. he’s no amateur, and dealing with a bad case of though, as he’s spent most of his writer’s block. career as a fulltime playwright, 
his oddball friend Billy Bickle, and is considered one of ireland’s plays an irish national, so au-dangerous past. one of the best films of the year. brought to life (not just played) most important living writers. diences aren’t subjected to his The other characters are also by sam rockwell, is devoted to his trademark sharp, witty, infamously terrible american well-portrayed, especially Tom Contact Kevin Noonan at inspiring marty to finish his cur-introspective and, of course, accent. he plays against type in waits as an aging serial killer knoonan2@nd.edu rent project, an anti-action thrill-dark style shines through in this film, a subdued and obser-who just wants to find his former er titled “seven psychopaths.” “psychopaths,” especially in his vant writer instead of the more serial killer girlfriend, but all are 
Billy is an unemployed actor characters, which are wonder-flamboyant character he’s used peanuts compared to rockwell’s 
“Seven 

whose main source of income fully and colorfully developed. to. walken also plays out of his Billy Bickle. 
Psychopaths” 

is kidnapping the dogs of the it may be just a little sloppier normal comfort zone as well. in The dog kidnapper is patrick 
Director: Martin McDonagh 

wealthy and returning them for than “in Bruges,” and the ending “seven psychopaths,” walken is Bateman minus the preten­a reward. his partner in crime may leave just a little to be de-reflective and sentimental, stray-tiousness and suits, plus a 
Studio: CBS Films 

is hans, played by christopher sired, but mcdonagh is a master ing away from what he’s done wickedly on-point yet entirely 
Starring: Collin Farrell, Sam 

walken. of the art and it shows. since the turn of the century. unintentional sense of humor. 
Rockwell, Christopher Walken 

The three run into trouble The film succeeds mainly on The result is a fully-fledged The first three-quarters of the when Billy accidentally kid-the strength of the performances enigma of a character, a reli-film set an extremely high bar naps the shih Tzu belonging of Farrell, walken and above all gious man who mourns his dy-that the climax fails to hit, but to charlie costello, played by rockwell. Thankfully Farrell ing wife and hides a violent and closes out well enough to make it 



JACQUELLINE O’NEILL | The Observer 

The oBserver | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Lizzy Schroff of lead vocalist and guitarist scot sax, guitarist rob Bonfiglio, bassist mark scene writer levin and drummer Jim cavanaugh. wanderlust had achieved an avid fol­lowing during their time in the 1990s, but will they do so again? 
welcome to philadelphia, the city of Brotherly love and the next stop on The war on drugs is sonic youth meets Bob dylan. vocalist adam our indie music map. as a phillie phanatic, i have a special place in my heart granduciel and former guitarist Kurt vile (who now plays his own solo act) for philadelphia. The city is full of rich history, having once been our nation’s happened to meet at a party where they bonded over their love of dylan’s temporary capital and the site of many an important meeting on the road music. The band currently consists of granduciel (vocals/guitar), david to independence and events soon after. it is also home to other wonderful hartley (bass/guitar), robbie Bennett (keyboards/guitar) and steven things like the liberty Bell, cheesesteaks and “rocky.” But let’s hone in on the urgo (drums/percussion), and has released two albums and two eps to thriving indie music scene in this bustling city. date.  Their sound combines elements of shoegaze, alt rock, and touches of 
i have a soft spot for the ethereal and dreamy; i love getting wrapped up americana, particularly in their earlier eps. dylan influences are evident in in lingering, echo-y vocals and synth beats and just forgetting about the 5 granduciel’s vocals and contemplative lyrics. billion things that are going on around me. That’s where sun airway comes and for those who like candid, uncomplicated alternative rock, there’s in. comprised of vocalist/guitarist/keyboardist Tom Barthmus (formerly of Blood Feathers. Formed in 2005, the group is comprised of founders Ben another philly band, the a-sides) and drummer patrick marsciell (also of the dickey (vocals/guitar/piano) and drew mills (vocals/guitar), as well as a-sides), the band delivers a healthy dose of electronic pop for avid effects clay simmons (bass), patrick marsciell (drums and also of above band sun lovers. They released their sophomore album “soft palms” just this year, airway), sam murphy (guitar) and Tracy stanton (saxophone/percussion/ adding to their budding repertoire. keyboard). They have released two albums thus far, showcasing their rock-
if you’re looking for a more eclectic style, than dr. dog is the right band and-roll sound featuring bluesy guitar and touches of twangy folk. for you. Toby leaman (bass guitar), scott mcmicken (lead guitar), Frank on the playlist i have also included a few “bonus tracks”: dead milkmen’s mcelroy (rhythm guitar), Zach miller (keyboard) and eric slick (drums) “punk rock girl” and “gonna Fly now” from “rocky”. “punk rock girl” is a compose the band, with leaman and mcmicken alternating on lead vocals. mTv hit that is just a great, upbeat, satiric post-punk song to jam out to and dr. dog’s style is highly influenced by 1960s pop, weaving in elements such sing off-key. as far as “gonna Fly now” goes, if this song doesn’t make you as lo-fi and sounds reminiscent of 1990s era indie-pop. The band has two eps want to find a staircase to run up and make you feel like you could take on and seven full-length albums under its belt, having released its most recent apollo creed, mr. T and ivan drago at the same time, there is something album, “Be the void,” in February of this year. Their prominence in the indie seriously wrong (“rocky” fans, you catch my drift). music world was kick-started when they toured as the opening band for my and so we reach the end of our music tour of the city of Brotherly love. if morning Jacket in 2004. dr. dog provides listeners with a great mix of the you ever happen to find yourself in philadelphia, delve into the city’s rich his-retro, the psychedelic and the quirky with a well-rounded catalog of catchy tory, cheer on a philly sports team and grab a soft pretzel while you explore a and groovy tunes. fantastic city. on to the next stop on our music map … 
one of my personal philadelphia favorites is matt pond pa. i first heard the Contact Lizzy Schroff at  eschro01@saintmarys.edu band when they came to legends here at notre dame in 2010 (i remember The views in this column are those of the author and  not necessarily those of The being super jealous of how effortlessly cool the female guitarist was). since Observer. then, i can’t get enough of their music. matt pond (lead vocals/guitar) has really been the consistent member throughout the many transitions the band has gone through, though chris hansen (guitar/vocals/keyboards) is also regarded as another core member. matt pond pa has released eight studio length albums and eight eps. it seems of late, singers enjoy locking themselves up in remote cabins in the wilderness for musical inspiration (a la Bon iver in his beloved wisconsin woods). matt pond did the same for his 2010 release “The dark leaves.” This idea must really be working, because the album is fantastic. it personifies matt pond pa’s expansive sound that has featured everything from cellos to keyboard effects, with the right touch of backwoods flair that you would expect from an album conceived in the soli­tude of a country cabin. (i’m just waiting for Kanye’s wilderness experience with a new release: “my Beautiful dark Twisted Forest oak Tree.”) 
everyone loves a comeback story, and wanderlust has the potential to be one of those comeback stories. The band originally formed and recorded in the mid-1990s but was dropped from its record label in the midst of record­ing its sophomore album. however, they reformed in 2011 and released their 

JACQUELLINE O’NEILL | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The nFc is superior to aFc 

Joseph Monardo 
sports writer 
The nFl is often praised for its parity. on any given sunday every team is in jeopardy of losing, no matter who it lines up against. 
But in this season, one dis­parity is undeniably present: the nFc stands head and shoul­ders above the aFc. 
after seven weeks of football this fact is all but universally recognized, but the extent to which the national Football conference’s production thus far exceeds that of its american counterpart is stunning. in head-to-head matchups, the nFc is 19-9. even more rele­vant, the division leaders in the nFc are undefeated out-of-con­ference at 9-0. The leaders in the aFc are 1-5 in such games. expanding the sample size a bit, the records of the top two teams in each division show the disparity just as power­fully: Those in the nFc are 16-4 against the opposite conference while those in aFc are 5-9. 
if the head-to-head records are not convincing enough, the popularized “eye test” can offer further evidence. how many legitimate super Bowl con­tenders are there in the aFc? among the consensus favorites from the aFc — new england, Baltimore, pittsburgh, houston and denver — only houston looks like a convincing threat to take home the hardware. of course, plenty of football re­mains to be played and any of these teams (and a few others) could put it together and make a run through the playoffs. But at this point in the season their deficiencies stand out just as prominently as their potential. 
The patriots (4-3), who have reigned on the top level of the nFl for most of the last decade, look anything but invincible. having feasted on the likes of Tennessee and Buffalo and earning a single quality win over denver at home, new england squeaked out a 29-26 victory in overtime against the Jets on sunday. Their offensive statistics place them among the league’s best in most categories, but the patriot defense hasn’t had much success stopping anybody. new england has allowed 163 points, more than all but two nFc teams but good enough for eighth in the aFc. 
Baltimore’s traditionally dominant defense has barely done better, having allowed 161 points through seven games. The ravens (5-2) don’t have an offense as potent as new england’s to mask the lack of stopping power on the defen­sive side. injuries — most nota­bly to ray lewis and lardarius webb — have hurt the birds, but they have a lot of work to do to become the league’s best team. 
pittsburgh’s offensive line woes represent the most sig­nificant concern for the steelers (3-3) and the Broncos (3-3) struggle to run the ball consis­tently. denver’s average of 93.8 yards per game ranks 23rd in the nFl. 
houston (6-1) really does look to be a legitimate contender — and probably the favorite — for the super Bowl. arian Foster and matt schaub have struck a balance on offense, but the Texans’ defense has been most impressive. J.J. watt leads a group that has allowed only 128 points in seven games, second-best in the aFc. 
with the Texans carrying the torch for all of the aFc, the nFc’s top teams easily outshine the single bright spot. at this point in the season, the 49ers, Falcons, packers, Bears and giants have all made their case to be feared. 
san Francisco’s balanced attack and strong defense has the 49ers (5-2) leading arizona and seattle in a competitive nFc west. The Falcons (6-0) are have risen up and remain foot­ball’s only undefeated team. The dirty Birds have used matt ryan’s veteran leadership — and ability to find superstars Julio Jones and roddy white 
—
 to pull out close game after close game. aaron rodgers is back to tearing apart defenses at the helm of the packers (4-3) in the nFc north. in the same division the Bears’ defense has allowed only 78 points — by far the fewest in the league — and chicago (5-1) has found ways to win despite inconsistency from Jay cutler at quarterback (seven interceptions to eight touchdowns and a completion percentage of 56.7). The giants (5-2) are in top form. But even if they weren’t, nobody should doubt that new york is a super Bowl contender after its re­peated improbable title runs in recent years. 

maybe the Texans are better than all these teams. or maybe one of the underwhelming aFc leaders will kick it into gear and ultimately capture the lombardi Trophy. maybe (probably?) some other team will steal the spotlight. nobody can predict the future, especial­ly in the nFl. But seven weeks of football have made it clear 

—
 the nFc teams are cut from a different cloth. 


Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Patriots prepare for London 
Associated Press 

FoXBorough, mass. — Before he plays at wembley stadium on sunday, patriots running back shane vereen wants to make a stop at Buckingham palace. 
“i just want to see the soldiers outside of the palace that can’t smile,” a smiling vereen said Tuesday. “i just want to take a picture.” 
and then he’ll play for the usually dour coach Bill Belichick in new england’s sec­ond trip in four years to london where they’ll face the st. louis rams. 
“The time change, the trav­el — that’s certainly different than most normal games,” Belichick said, “but it’s not any­thing we haven’t dealt with be­fore. we’ve traveled to the west coast. we’re just going the other direction. hopefully, we’ll be able to deal with it.” 
The patriots went to london in 2009, beating the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, 35-7, but most play­ers on that new england team won’t be with this one when it travels across the atlantic ocean on a red-eye Thursday night. 
For vereen, in his second nFl season, it will be his first trip to europe. 
“i’m excited to go, see what it’s all about and be able to play somewhere else, but at the same time we do have to go get a ‘w,’” vereen said, adding, “i think it’s fun” more than the inconve­nience of making a long trip in the middle of the season. 
“i think it will be a good thing for us. i think it will be a good thing for st. louis as well,” he said. “middle of the season, you kind of start getting into the lull, the every-day routine. so 

FOR RENT 

Rent Knute Rockne’s home for football weekends. Perfect location 
- 1 block from Eddy St. Commons. Sleeps 8-10. Contact 574-876-4324 
WANTED 

PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt earnparttime.com 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Born on this day in history: 
1978 - Carlos Edwards, Trinidadian footballer 
1978 -Justin Lee Brannan, American musician 
1979 - Amanda Aardsma, Miss Colorado Teen USA (1997) 
1979 - Ben Gillies, Australian musi­cian (Silverchair) 
1980 - James Killian, American foot­ball player 
1980 - Matthew Amoah, Ghanaian footballer 
1980 - Zac Posen, American fash­ion designer 
1981 - Mallika Sherawat, Indian actress 

to break the routine a little bit and get to go out of the country, i think will be something fun.” 
injured safety steve gregory, who missed the last two games with a hip injury, visited london with the san diego chargers in 2008 and is looking forward to another trip. 
“it was a great experience,” he said. “obviously, i had nev­er been there before so to see london, the overall experience, was just amazing.” 
as far as his off-field plans, gregory joked that he would see Queen elizabeth, “if she’ll let me.” 
running back stevan ridley, asked about visiting the queen, 
said, “hey man,  if  she calls,  
yeah.”  
placekicker  stephen  

gostkowski, who made the 2009 trip, said, “it was a lot of fun and we got a win and hopefully it will be the same experience. it’s a long trip but it’s not too much farther than like when we went to seattle (oct. 14). so, it will be a good experience if we play well and can come home with a win.” 
as far as what he might like to do this time, gostkowski said, “i doubt we’ll really have time to really enjoy . go sightseeing, maybe take a tour bus, i don’t know. They haven’t told us the schedule yet. it will be fun if we win and we’ll have a good time.” 
The wembley stadium field hasn’t gotten great reviews. 
“every field is different, you get used to it,” Belichick said. “it’s a grass field. it’s not the fastest field but we’ve played on plenty comparable to that. it’s a little different environment out there. They do the soccer cheers and the rugby cheers and all that. 
“it’s a little less football-oriented.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
1981 - Tila Tequila, American model 
1982 - Mohamed Fairuz Fauzy, Malaysian racing driver 
1982 -Macay McBride, American baseball player 
1983 - Brian Vickers, American race car driver 
1983 - Adrienne Bailon, American actress and singer 
1983 - Keyshia Cole, American singer 
1984 - Kaela Kimura, Japanese model and singer 
1985 - Wayne Rooney, English footballer 
1986 - Aubrey Graham, Canadian actor and rapper 



SMC VOLLEYBALL | oliveT 3, smc 1; smc 3, Finlandia 1 
Belles split weekend matches 
By NICK BOYLE 
sports writer 
saint mary’s split a pair of con­tests saturday, dropping a 3-1 de­cision to olivet before bouncing back to beat Finlandia 3-1. 
despite starting well against the comets, the Belles eventually lost the closely contested match to their conference foe. 
“we came out really strong [against] olivet on saturday,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “The first set was a great team per-and play well together. it was also good to get the win.” 
The Belles now face another quick turnaround, traveling to alma tonight for an miaa match. The contest is one of three conference matches left on their schedule. 
“we will need to hit well ver­sus alma,” Kuschel said. “we will need to serve tough and eliminate our errors to get the win.” 
a Belles victory will move them into a tie for fourth place 

“We are extremely proud of our team accomplishments so far.” 
Toni Kuschel Belles coach 
formance. in the third and fourth set we had a hard time adjusting to what we saw happening. we also did not hit well as a team.” 
although saint mary’s did not win, Kuschel praised one of the team’s leaders. 
“[sophomore middle hitter] melanie Kuczek had a great per­formance on saturday with 12 kills and 6 blocks,” she said. ”we will be looking for more of the same from her going into this week versus alma.” 
The Belles had a quick turn­around after the loss to olivet, taking on Finlandia immediately afterward. The non-conference match provided everyone an op­portunity to play, and helped saint mary’s bounce back from the previous loss. 
“everyone got a chance to play on saturday [against] Finlandia,” Kuschel said. “it was great to see our freshmen go into the match in the conference, good for a spot in the miaa tournament. 
“we want to go into this match [against] alma and get back to playing the level of vol­leyball that we are capable of,” Kuschel said. “our ball control was just not there this past week and we are working very hard to make some improve­ments going into this very tough week of volleyball.” 
a place in the tournament would be a first for the Belles under Kuschel. 
“we are extremely proud of our team accomplishments so far and it would be great to fin­ish out our season playing the way we know we are more than capable of,” Kuschel said. 
The Belles take on alma to­night at 7 p.m. in alma, mich. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

MLB 

Catcher Posey leads Giants 
Associated Press 
san Francisco — on a team known for stellar pitching, bushy beards and quirky person­alities, the unquestioned leader of the san Francisco giants is their understated catcher, Buster posey. 
From his prowess behind the plate, shepherding the staff through its ups and downs, to the bat that won the national league batting title, posey is the biggest reason the giants are back in the world series for the second time in his three big league seasons. 
“i’d hate to think where we would be without him,” manag­er Bruce Bochy said. “The num­bers, they speak for themselves. But also his leadership on this club. we saw what life was with­out him last year. ... i don’t know a player that’s made a bigger im­pact on a club than what he has on our club. he’s just a tremen­dous talent. we’re lucky to have him.” 
posey has returned from a horrific, season-ending injury in 2011 to the top of the sport this year: starting all-star catcher, batting champion, likely nl most valuable player and world series trip. 
it’s a remarkable story that posey even made it back on the field this year, much less per­formed the way he did. it was his devastating injury that derailed the giants’ repeat hopes a year ago and led many to question whether posey should ever catch again. 
in may 2011, posey broke a bone in his left leg and tore three ankle ligaments when bowled over at the plate by the Florida marlins’ scott cousins. 
“i was excited just to be back on the field at the start of the sea­son,” posey said Tuesday. “i defi­nitely appreciate this year just as much if not more. when i was here in 2010 it seemed like ev­erything happened really, really fast. This year i had the chance to understand the difficulty of a long season and the ups and downs you have over the course of the year. it’s something you want to enjoy while you’re doing it and soak up every minute of it.” 
sam Francisco never really re­covered from that blow and was unable to make it back to the postseason last year without its star catcher. 
But his presence at the start of spring training this year set the tone for the entire season in san Francisco. he batted .336 to be­come the first catcher to win the nl batting title since the Boston Braves’ ernie lombardi in 1942. 
“For what he has been doing behind the plate for us has been tremendous all year,” ace matt cain said. “he has done such a great job from coming back from last year’s injury to doing what he’s doing this year. i don’t think you can really put it into words what he’s done. not a lot of guys could do what he’s done. That’s a special talent.” 
posey added 24 homers, 39 doubles and 103 rBis while managing the pitching staff and dealing with the wear and tear of crouching each night behind the plate and absorbing the foul tips and balls in the dirt that making catching such an arduous chore. 
Bochy spelled posey a bit by giving him 29 starts at first base, but both the giants and posey are adamant his future is behind the plate. 
“we really treated him with kid gloves there early, and as we got deeper into the spring training i got more and more comfortable with how much he could catch,” Bochy said. “This game is not that easy, especially when you miss as much time as he did last year and yet it didn’t take him long to get into the flow of the game, get his timing at the plate and get back to handling the pitching staff.” 
posey has been far from his best this postseason as teams have often tried to pitch around him in key spots to face his less dangerous teammates. he bat­ted .178 the first two rounds with two homers and six rBis, but it was his grand slam that broke open the clinching game 5 of the division series. 
and now he’s back in the world series. 
with his boyish looks and su­preme talent, posey is almost a Bay area version of new york yankees great derek Jeter, both heralded first-round picks who helped restore tradition-rich franchises to greatness. 
They both won rookies of the year and world series titles in their first seasons, quickly earn­ing the respect of their veteran teammates. Both made it back to the Fall classic in year three. 


each manage to avoid con­troversy while being his team spokesman. 
“Buster is so professional about how he goes about his business,” Bochy said. “There is a calmness about him, about the way he plays, very well prepared. he has the ability to slow down the game, and i think he leads by example on how he prepares and how he plays, and how he han­dles himself. so he’s definitely a leader in this ballclub and guys feed off him.” 
posey is the face of the fran­chise and far different from the last position player to hold that title in san Francisco. he is quintessential anti-Barry Bonds, quickly turning any praise to­ward him to his teammates even if they may be less deserv­ing. he was even one of the most outspoken giants criticizing teammate melky cabrera this summer when the outfielder got suspended for testing positive for testosterone. 
“The more you’ve played it’s a little bit easier to be a leader,” posey said. “i try to help guys any way i can. i want to contribute whether it’s pointing something out you might see that somebody is doing or whatever.” 
when he was called up as a rookie, there were questions about how he called a game compared to veteran Bengie molina. But he quickly earned the trust of most of the staff, al­though Tim lincecum and Barry Zito threw primarily to backup hector sanchez this season. 
“we work really well togeth­er,” starter ryan vogelsong said. “he’s real easy to work with. he’s got a good idea of what he wants to do back there, and he’s got a pretty good idea what i want to do on my end. he’s great. he’s one of the best i’ve ever thrown to.” 



The oBserver |  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY | BrooKs inviTaTional 
SMC SOCCER | alma 2, sainT mary’s 0 
Belles fall to scots 
saint mary’s places 28th 
By LAURA COLETTI 

in miaa matchup 
sports writer 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
The Belles gave up two quick goals in the first four minutes of action Tuesday against alma and ended up losing to the scots (11­5-2, 8-4-2 miaa) 2-0 in a pivotal conference clash. 
“This definitely was a tough loss,” saint mary’s sophomore goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum said. “we are all upset and bitter because we know we could have won that game. This game might have pushed us up a bit in the standings, but it won’t change our mindset for the rest of the games. we are going to carry these feel­ings into these next games to help us get the wins we need.” 
alma sophomore forward mackenzie smith found the back of the net just 54 seconds into the game with an unassisted goal. smith, who leads the scots with 11 goals this season, dou­bled her money at the 3:21 mark when she headed home a cross inside the penalty area from ju­nior midfielder/forward Taryn handyside. rosenbaum said the Belles (11-4-2, 8-4-1) were shell-shocked by the early strikes from smith, but they put them in the rearview mirror and moved forward. 
“we all were stunned after the first goals, but we put them in the past and just tried to play our game,” rosenbaum said. “once we started connecting our passes and settled down a bit, we were able to put more pressure on their defense and take more shots.” 
saint mary’s responded by outshooting the scots 15-13, in­cluding 6-5 on goal. But alma withstood the Belles’ second-half surge, as sophomore goalkeeper morgan waier recorded six saves en route to her third clean sheet of the season. 
“The first half was a rough half, but by the time the second half rolled around we were connect­ing more passes and working the ball down the field,” rosenbaum said. “after the goals, our offense knew that the only way to score was to shoot the ball and that’s just what they did. we outshot alma in the second half, but earlier. it worked out and the race was great, but it definitely made it more of an adventure.” 

saint mary’s was able to work through the kinks, and as a whole, ran a race that pleased Bauters. 
“overall, i was pretty pleased with the team’s performance, even though it seems like the times have not improved,” Bauters said. “while i was hoping for some faster times, they are very similar to the other team’s performances.” 
Bauters said when com­paring results from the miaa Jamboree on sept. 21 to the Brooks invitational, think it did impact some of the overall time perfor­mance,” Bauters said. 
sophomore samee chittenden finished be­hind Biek with a time of 
24:52:30 and set a new col­legiate 6-kilometer person­al record to go along with her 222nd-place individual finish. 
The squad will now turn their attention toward the miaa championships this weekend. 
“in preparation for cham­pionships, i’m feeling very confident in our team’s ability to put out their best performances of the sea­son,” Bauters said. “we had 


unfortunately none fell in the net.” 
despite the loss, the Belles still find themselves positioned in the thick of the conference postsea­son race. The top four teams in the miaa advance to the confer­ence tournament to determine which team advances to the ncaa tournament. saint mary’s sits in fourth place with 25 points after the loss. hope and alma sit one point higher in a tie for sec­ond place. rosenbaum said the Belles are still confident in their ability to qualify for the miaa 

The Belles scored 751 team points and placed 28th at the university of wisconsin-oshkosh Brooks invitational on oct. 13. no. 6 calvin won the event with a team score of 91. 
Junior Jessica Biek paced the Belles with a time of 23:31.50, good for a 74th­place individual finish in a field of 500 runners. 
The team faced adversity at the beginning of the meet in the form of bad weather. race officials were initially unsure if the runners could safely compete. 
“The Brooks invite was a very interesting race this year,” Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. “The start was pushed back due to bad storms. crazy enough, the women ended up start­ing their race two minutes after the start of the men’s race, as the race directors felt like there was a window of time to safely get the race in. as a result, we were all a little off schedule, first waiting to start and then being told we were going 
“Overall, I was pretty pleased with the team’s performance.” 
Jackie Bauters  
Belles coach  
times from other confer- a productive fall break and  
ence members also did not  put in quality miles.”  
improve. she attributed the  The Belles will race in the  
lack of improvement to the  mia a  championships  on  
adverse weather conditions  saturday in a lbion, mich.  
at the Brooks inv itiational.  
“The course was so wet  Contact Laura Coletti at  
and full of puddles that  i  lcoletti@nd.edu  

Tournament. 

SMC SWIMMING | miaa relays 
“This was definitely a tough loss, but we still have three more games to prove that we belong in the conference tournament,” 

Young team opens season 
rosenbaum said. “i have high hopes for us and know that we can [win] those [games].” 
saint mary’s gets another chance to shake things up at the top of the miaa standings when it battles hope (11-4-2, 8-3-2) on Thursday. The Belles defeat­ed the Flying dutch 1-0 oct. 6. rosenbaum said saint mary’s will be looking for a similar result Thursday. 
“i have very high expectations for us against hope on Thursday,” rosenbaum said. “hope might be ranked higher than us, but i know we are good enough to beat them. standings, records, statis­tics, and everything else go out the window when that whistle blows.” 
Before the game, saint mary’s celebrated senior day and hon­ored midfielder maddie meckes, defender meaghan daly and midfielder ashley morfin. 
“it was great to honor and rec­ognize our seniors for everything they have done for saint mary’s and us,” rosenbaum said. “They put in so much time and effort over the past four years and it’s paying off [this season]. we will miss all three of them, but wish them the best of luck with life af­ter graduation.” 
The Belles square off with the Flying dutch Thursday at 7 p.m. in holland, mich. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 

The Belles launched their 2012-13 season Friday night at the non-scoring miaa relays at calvin college in grand rapids, mich. 
Belles coach mark Benishek said he was pleased with how well the team competed. 
“we had some great swims at the conference relay meet,” Benishek said. “There were strong swims across the board. we are on track and ahead of schedule compared to last year.” 
seniors liz palmer, ellie watson and freshman paige handy put forth strong perfor­mance. The trio placed fourth in the 1500 freestyle relay with a time of 17:20.17. 
“i’m excited about what i see out of [palmer, watson and handy],” Benishek said. “They swam very well in their relay.” 
The Belles also made a splash in the diving portion of Friday’s events. Freshman andrea canacci became the first-ever diver to compete for saint mary’s. assistant coach ping Tong instructs canacci. 
“we have a diver this year, so we get points no mat­ter what in that category,” Benishek said. “we have never before had a diver. [andrea] is making great strides. [Tong] said she is continuously im­proving and getting better.” 
Four Belles relay teams took sixth place on Friday. palmer, watson and seniors liz litke and Kristyn gerbeth finished in 2:27.31 in the 200-meter breaststroke relay. litke, soph­omore sarah Thompson and freshmen carolyn neville and emily Brown recorded a time Benishek said he liked the performances of his first-year swimmers. 
“with about half of our team being freshmen, it was good to see them swimming well in their first meet,” Benishek said. 
Benishek said the Belles will continue to work on the basics. 
“it’s early on in the season, so we will continue to add 

“It’s early on in the season, so we will continue to add some more strength and work on [cardiovascular conditioning.] These are things every team works on and it’s what we build upon.” 
Mark Benishek Belles coach 

of 5:02.04 in the 500-meter freestyle relay. gerbeth, litke, watson and senior genevieve spittler finished in 2:01.23 in the 200-meter butterfly relay. Brown, gerbeth, litke and freshman megan Knobloch recorded a time of 1:08.54 in the 100-meter breaststroke relay. 
saint mary’s 15-person ros­ter contains seven freshmen. 
some more strength and work on [cardiovascular condi­tioning],” he said. “These are things every team works on and it’s what we build upon.” 
The Belles will compete in their first scoring meet against albion in albion, mich., on Friday. 
Contact at Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 



MEN’S GOLF | georgeTown inTercollegiaTe 
Irish finish two shots behind champion Toledo 

ASHLEY DACY | The Observer 

Irish junior Andrew Carreon watches his shot during the Fighting Irish Gridirion Golf Classic at the Warren Golf Course on Oct. 9. Notre Dame finished tied for eighth and Carreon tied for 15th in the individual standings. 
team score of 865. penn state want to see as we head into the took them down pretty good,” no. 1 player — he’s probably 
By CORY BERNARD 

sports writer fired a 19-over-par 871 to finish spring. i think we gained some Kubinski said. “you know, i about third in scoring average 
in third place. really good momentum and, think we are going to be a good or so; so, you know, putting, he 
The irish came up just short irish coach Jim Kubinski said again, we got better every tour-team.” wants to get his putting confi­in their final tournament of he like the way his team fin-nament and that was impor-in order to become a good dence back. everyone will have the fall season in Beallsville, ished the first half of the season. tant to me this fall.” team, each irish golfer will a little different plan. we’ll sit md., on Tuesday. notre dame “The main thing — and i re-although the irish didn’t win have to work on specific ele-down in the next week and put finished in second place at the ally praised the guys when they the tournament, they did prove ments of his game during the that together, and we’ve got, georgetown intercollegiate, finished up today — they got themselves capable of beating offseason. Kubinski said the essentially, four months before two shots behind tournament better every tournament,” he good competition. They bested coaching staff will develop we start competing again in champion Toledo. said. “not necessarily — i think Fighting irish gridiron golf specific plans for each golfer to early march.” 
The irish began the final the scores were actually prob-classic champion michigan work on during the winter. notre dame will take a round trailing the rockets by ably better, too — but just in the state on Tuesday. “we will put together some break from competition be-one stroke. notre dame fired a things that coaches want to see “you know, it was kind of individual plans,” Kubinski fore returning to action at the five-over-par team score of 289 at this point in the year: their neat, michigan state won our said. “everybody has a little Fighting irish match play in in the third round, but Toledo comfort level, the decisions home tournament a couple something different. For in-hilton head, s.c., on march 11. edged the irish with a four-over-they’re making, their confi-of weeks ago … but we ended stance, i think [junior] niall par 288. overall, notre dame dence, being able to bounce up gearing up with them to-[platt] — who we went into Contact Cory Bernard at finished with a 13-over-par back, all those things that you day face-to-face and we just the fall thinking would be our cbernard@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S TENNIS | midwesT championship 
sanders loses in singles final 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
after entering the usTa/ iTa midwest regional championships as an under­dog, junior Britney sanders fell in the singles final to no. 12 Kate Turvy of northwestern 6-4, 0-6, 6-4. 
sanders, who entered the tournament as the no. 98-ranked singles player, was not expected to be as success­ful as she was. nevertheless, sanders battled her way into the finals. she managed to stay in the match with Turvy, claim­ing every game in the second set and falling by only two games in the other sets. 
“i am happy with my per­formance this week,” sanders said. “every match i feel like i got better and better. i still have a lot to improve on, but i think this was a good tournament for me.” 
This match marked sanders’ first singles loss of the fall sea­son. sanders said she still has a few things to work on going into the remainder of the fall season. 
“i have an aggressive game style,” sanders said. “i like to hit a lot of winners but some­times i go for too much and end up missing. i need to learn to stay patient and at­tack when the time is right.” 
sanders said she believes her success this week will al­low her to be a better leader to the less experienced girls throughout the season. 
“i hope my success this tournament gives my team­mates more confidence,” sanders said. “i was an un­derdog and i made it to the finals. i hope it shows them that it doesn’t matter who their opponent is, as long as they work hard and fight for every match they can win.” 
due to her success in this tournament, sanders will be eligible for a bid in the usTa/ iTa indoor championships on nov. 8th. 
The irish will be in action as once more nov. 9th as the team divides, sending some to the lakewood ranch invitational and the western michigan invitational. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

SMC GOLF | miaa end oF season JamBoree 
Belles finish on high note 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
Following a disappointing first half of the fall season, the Belles finished their conference schedule on a high note. saint mary’s placed second at the miaa end of season weekend Jamboree on oct. 11 and 12 at the Bedford valley country club in Battle creek, mich. 
The second-place finish in the end of the season Jamboree combined with its first-place finish at the adrian Jamboree on oct. 6 moved saint mary’s past calvin into second place in the final miaa standings. 
“i think we’ve started to scratch our potential,” Belles coach mark hamilton said. “everyone is getting used to playing college golf and we were actually in a little bit of a slump and so we’ve just started to scratch the surface ... it was a good note to end on.” 
after the first day of play, the Belles were tied for second with calvin as both teams shot a score of 340. But saint mary’s pulled away on the second day, carding another 340 while hope turned in a team score of 
356. The Belles’ second round was especially impressive be­cause they admirably dealt with terrible conditions, hamilton said. 
“The main test was the second day where the conditions were about as bad as you can imag­ine,” hamilton said. “i honestly don’t i’ve played or coached in worse conditions than what we had. it was about 39 degrees, windy and rainy. i was very proud of the way our team hung in there. 
“we were the only team to do the same or improve on the first 
“Inch by inch we work on getting better throughout the fall.” 
Mark Hamilton 
Belles coach 
day. so i was very proud of how they performed and hung in there because there were a lot of players and teams that were go­ing the other direction, having a hard time competing.” 
Junior paige pollak led the way for the Belles, placing third overall in the tournament with a two-day score of 163. sophomore Janice heffernan also cracked the top ten, finish­ing seventh with a score of 169. Freshmen amanda graham and claire Boyle and junior Justine Bresnahan rounded out the top five for saint mary’s. 
“paige struggled a little bit ear­lier in the season and she started to find some form the last couple of rounds of the year, which i knew she would do,” hamilton said. “she was one of the players that was slumping a little bit … shooting 80 on the last day was quite a special round.” 
after finishing among the top 12 miaa golfers, Bresnahan, heffernan, graham and Boyle were all named to the all-miaa second Team. 
saint mary’s now looks ahead to their spring schedule, during which they will compete in three 18-hole rounds to decide which teams will compete in the 2013 division iii championships. hamilton knows all the hard work his team put in this fall season will pay off come may. 
“inch by inch we work on get­ting better throughout the fall,” he said. “we know that we are never quite where we want to be until we get to may. we have some younger players going through the adjustments and starting to see some of the fruits of their labor.” 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


The oBserver |  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2012  | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Clark 
conTinued From page 20 
is starting particularly, but i think he really cares about every single person on the team and he kept me moti­vated to get back even though i wasn’t having a chance of playing that year.” 
dike rebounded in a big way during his first season back with the team in 2008 by registering a team-lead­ing 29 points off 12 goals and five assists and starting all of notre dame’s 21 contests. he raised his game once again for his senior campaign in 2009, earning recognition as the Big east offensive player of the year after scoring 11 goals and adding four assists in 13 starts. 
dike said the support clark provided him during and af­ter his redshirt season rep­resented the program as a whole. 
“i think beyond [being] soc­cer players they are just good people on and off the field,” he said. “There are so many guys that i think will be friends [of mine] for the rest of my life. i really felt that the chemistry of the group — i think that speaks of the coaching staff and Bobby clark and the peo­ple he recruited. you know, he recruited good people just like himself and i think we all were playing for each other. and i think in a professional environment and a competi­tive environment, it’s really hard to find that chemistry [we had].” 
during his career in an irish uniform dike took the pitch 86 times and made 38 starts, but his performance in alumni stadium’s first-ever soccer game on sept. 1, 2009 stands out most prominently to the oklahoma native. 
“it was probably the first game we played at notre dame on the new pitch. we played michigan for the sea­son opener and i had a hat-trick in that game all in the second half,” dike said. “so that was a really memorable game for us, for me.” 
after going 12th in the 2010 mls superdraft to the columbus crew, dike has played with the Timbers in the mls since 2011. he re­turned from his torn achilles just four months after suffer­ing the injury, which normal­ly carries a recovery period of six to nine months. This year dike has four goals in 11 appearances and has made eight starts, all coming in the last 10 games. in a span of eight games stretching from aug. 19 to sept. 29 dike reg­istered all four of his season’s goals and barely missed add­ing three more. 
“i think i have hit the post three times so i am just inch­es away from having seven [goals],” dike said. “you talk about the difference between four [goals] in eight [games] and seven in eight. you see how close you are, and it is just inches of focus to make you a better player and that is definitely driving me forward to make me a better player.” 
dike is one of the cata­lysts on a Timbers team that captured the 2012 cascadia cup, which is awarded to the team among the Timbers, the vancouver whitecaps and the seattle sounders with the best record in head-to-head 
“I am thankful for Notre Dame for a lot of things. For me it created so many wonderful moments and memories ... there are so many great experiences from Notre Dame that I will cherish for my whole life.” 
Bright Dike 
Timbers forward 
matchups. although portland (8-16-9) failed to qualify for the playoffs, the team went 3-1-2 against its regional ri­vals. The Timbers concluded their competition for the cup on sunday with a 1-0 win over vancouver — a game in which dike started and played 85 minutes. 
dike said he enjoys play­ing in front of the Timbers’ home crowd in portland, es­pecially the supporters group “Timbers army,” which ex­ecutes the “cutting of the log” after every Timbers goal. 


seven of the squad’s eight wins have come at home this season, with the only away victory being the most recent one against the whitecaps. 
“i think we definitely have one of the most exciting, if not the most exciting atmo­sphere, in the mls,” the for­ward said. “i think there is a good history here. i mean, soccer has been around this city for a long time. The fans are wonderful, i think they really appreciate soccer in this state. and we have a good tradition with the cutting of the log so it is just a great at­mosphere. we sell out pretty much every game that we have. it’s just really a great fan base to play for.” 
now performing admirably in the mls, dike said he still carries with him much of the advice received from clark as a student-athlete at notre dame. 
“i think he is responsible for a lot of how i play now and a lot of the ideas i have in my head,” dike said. “i think he is just a really good soccer brain and a really good teacher … a lot of things he has taught me are stuck in my head and i still think about it all every day. i still talk to him every couple of weeks and hear some of his thoughts on things, hear about his life and hear about how things are going up there. i think he is just a good soccer teacher … he knows how to communicate with his play­ers and motivate his players. he creates belief in yourself, you know? and that belief in yourself only gets stronger learning from him. so i think a lot of credit for my success is due to him, too.” 
This year’s irish squad has impressed dike, who has en­joyed following notre dame since his departure. notre dame (12-3, 4-2 Big east) is currently tied for third in the conference’s Blue division. 
“From what i hear, they are just playing as a team,” dike said. “it’s just what i said — that’s the one thing that is really hard to find in a com­petitive environment: to find a team that the chemistry is as good as it can be. i think 



“You see how close you are, and it is just inches of focus to make you a better player and that is definitely driving me forward to make me a better player.” 
Bright Dike 
Timbers Forward 
they have out there a true team playing for each other and playing together, and i don’t think that’s really as easy as people think. i think that’s probably the biggest reason for their success.” 
his continued interest in the team is indicative of dike’s fond memories from his time at notre dame. From a five-year span filled with notable events and achievements, one of the most notable memories came at the very end of dike’s time as a student when he briefly met president Barack obama. 
“That was when we gradu­ated, my year of graduation, 2009,” dike said. “i was in the front row so i got to meet the president, shake his hand as he was walking by and have a small quick chat with him. But that’s just an amazing experi­ence and i think notre dame is just a really good school. i am thankful for notre dame for a lot of things. For me it created so many wonderful moments and memories in my life. [meeting the presi­dent], freshman year we got to go to Brazil with the soccer team and play over there — there are so many great expe­riences from notre dame that i will cherish for my whole life.” 
dike and the portland Timbers will conclude their season saturday when they host the san Jose earthquakes. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 



Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
performance and then we’ll catapult it on to the next game,” he said. 
marquette will be the sixth ranked opponent the irish have played this sea­son. clark said the tough schedule notre dame has faced up to this point should help his squad against the golden eagles. 
“it is a huge game for the team, but it’s also a huge game for marquette,” clark said. “But the nice thing is, for us, we’ve played in a lot of big games this year. The schedule that we’ve played … we’ve played a lot of big games. so it’s a big game, but i think this team has played a lot of big games this year, and that’s one of the reasons that we play a very difficult schedule.” 
senior forward andy huftalin leads marquette in goals with nine, five more than the next highest play­ers on the roster. huftalin 
“I think we’ve scored the most goals in the league, but they’re right behind us, and they haven’t given up goals. They’re a well-balanced team, I don’t think there’s any question about that.” 
Bobby Clark 
Irish coach 
— much like irish senior forward ryan Finley, who leads notre dame with 14 goals — usually comes off the bench in golden eagle matches. 
however, clark said he doesn’t see many simi­larities between huftalin and Finley. he also said marquette’s results up to this point of the season can­not be attributed to just one player. 
“i think [huftalin is] a different type of player, but having said that, he’s scored a lot of goals,” he said. “They’ve got quite a few threats on set pieces. They’re a good team. you don’t create the record like they have on one player. They’ve got multiple scor­ing options. i think we’ve scored the most goals in the league, but they’re right be­hind us, and they haven’t given up goals. They’re a well-balanced team, i don’t think there’s any question about that.” 
notre dame faces marquette in the first of two matches this week at 7 p.m. tonight in alumni stadium. 
Contact Sam Gans at       sgans@nd.edu 
Kelly 
conTinued From page 20 

Jones, who will be making his 44th career start, has passed for 1,644 yards and 12 touchdowns with three interceptions. he has not been held to fewer than 222 passing yards in a game this season. 
“he’s gotten into a good rhythm,” Kelly said. “he hasn’t been disrupted very much. and i think, like most good quarter­backs, if you can get into a good rhythm and you’re not disrupt­ed, you’re going to be pretty ef­fective. you can see that’s been the case.” 
miami was the only team to pass for more than 200 yards against the irish when they tossed for 201 yards oct. 6. 
The sooners have been able to stretch the field against their op­ponents, racking up eight pass plays of 30 or more yards. 
“we’re quite aware of their ability to get vertical,” Kelly said. 
“and we take great pride in our ability to minimize those big plays. we’re going to have to do that again on saturday if we ex­pect to win. if they can throw the ball over our head, it puts us in a very difficult situation defensively.” 
saturday’s game marks the first time since the irish played usc in 2006 that top-10 notre dame will face a fellow top-10 opponent. 
“This is why you coach at notre dame,” Kelly said. “This is why you coach at those pro­grams that get the opportu­nity to play in marquee games. There’s an excitement but there’s also a realization that that excitement only gets you so far. you’ve got to prepare well. you’ve got to be detailed and organized. and so in times like these, we get that. That’s why we want to be here at notre dame.” 
oklahoma has been domi­nant at home since sooners coach Bob stoops took over in 1999. The sooners are 79-4 at home during that span, includ­ing 14-1 in norman against ranked opponents. 
“That’s where we want to be,” Kelly said. “i mean, we want that consistency. year in and year out you know oklahoma is going to be part of the conversation. and that’s where we want to get our football program. we’re no­where near that yet. we think we’re moving in the right direc­tion. we’re trending the right way.” 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher BrucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | rago & paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: emotions will be difficult to control, especially where money mat­ters are concerned. you will need to use your contacts coupled with a little charm to help maintain your current status quo. a change in the way you do things or the people you work with is apparent. your numbers are 2, 16, 23, 28, 31, 36, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): get serious about your financial relationships with per­sonal or business partners. collect what’s owed to you and pay off any debts you’ve incurred. once you establish your position free and clear of others, you will be able to embrace greater opportunity. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): nothing will be clear if you refuse to ask questions. emotional matters will escalate and a reluctance to give you the help you require will cause setbacks. Take note of anyone using pressure to manipulate a situation you face. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Tread carefully in social settings. refrain from making physical changes with the potential to turn out badly. Focus on what you can do to help the underdog or how you can improve your most important relationships. underspend and overwork and you’ll excel. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): network until you get what you want. your insight and ability to touch others with your plans and knowledge will in turn lead to interesting options that will help you improve your personal lifestyle and surroundings. love is in the stars. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): pick your words carefully. not everyone will be eager to follow your lead. The less pressure you put on others, the better. Focus more on making self-improvements. push negative people away and embrace those heading in a similar direction. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): explore new avenues. Follow your basic instincts, and try your hand at something you’ve always wanted to do. don’t let mishaps at home hold you back. a financial gain can be made if you can separate your funds from someone who tends to overspend. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): expand your knowledge, add to your skills and most of all, take care of matters that pertain to children, close friends or a partner who has been jerking you around. straight communication will lead to answers and solutions. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Bickering will be a waste of time. emotional issues will continue to escalate if you don’t put your foot down and make a decision regard­ing whoever is disrupting your life. Follow your heart and your intuition. love is highlighted. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep what you are doing low-key. The less you discuss your personal life, the better. someone you least expect will try to force you into an argument that is based on false information. make alterations at home to improve your situation. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): look over personal deals, contracts and invest­ments. you can make changes that are better suited to the economic climate if you think matters through and make your moves based on your future needs. Back away from impulsive individuals. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): avoid travel or dealing with people from foreign back­grounds. you aren’t likely to get the satisfaction you want or get promises fulfilled. Financial limitations are apparent if you take on additional responsibilities. make improvements at home that will ease your stress. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): There is money to be made if you invest in something you feel comfortable pursuing. contracts, settlements and pending legal matters can be dealt with efficiently. love is in the stars. making a promise will help clear up a misconception. 


Birthday Baby: you are inventive, unique and attract attention. you are unpredict­able. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. Box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The oBserver | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Golson geared to go 
Irish coach Brian Kelly names sophomore Everett Golson starting quarterback 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
For the fourth consecutive week, the no. 5 irish will have a different starting quarterback than the week before when sophomore everett golson takes the field for notre dame’s show­down at no. 8 oklahoma. 
golson passed a cardio test monday and irish coach Brian Kelly named him the starter for the game against the sooners (5-1). 
“we wanted to do that more because he hadn’t had really the opportunity to get out there and run, and we didn’t want to wait until saturday where he’s out there and we have some set­backs,” Kelly said. “he’s good and 100 percent, and he’ll start for us against oklahoma on saturday.” 
The sophomore signal caller missed notre dame’s 17-14 win over Byu with a concussion sus­tained during thestanford game a week earlier. he was cleared to practice last wednesday but Kelly elected to start junior Tommy rees against Byu in­stead. golson did not play. 
golson has thrown for 968 passing yards and four touch­downs and rushed for 81 yards and two scores. 
The sooners also employ a two-quarterback system, but in a much different way than the irish (7-0) do. 
senior landry Jones is oklahoma’s clear-cut starter while sophomore Blake Bell adds a running dimension to the position. The sooners have installed special “Belldozer” goal-line packages for Bell, who has eight rushing touchdowns on the season. 
“if it’s first and goal from the five, we’re going to have a hard time keeping them out of the end zone,” Kelly said. “if he’s on the field, we’re going to have to do something really extraordi­nary, because he’s a tough guy to stop.” 
oklahoma’s offense has start­ed to click following a 24-19 loss to then-no. 15 Kansas state, av­eraging 52 points in its last three games, including a 63-point out­burst in a win over Texas. 
“i think there’s a confidence level,” Kelly said. “you can see it in the receivers, the quarter­back, and landry has been very effective and efficient with the football. [They] made big plays. They’re balancing their run­ning game in there. certainly their offense has evolved since the first week against uTep to where they are today.” 
see Kelly PAGE 18 


SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 

Irish sophomore quarterback Everett Golson winds up to throw the ball during Notre Dame’s 20-13 win over Stanford on Oct. 13. Golson will start against Oklahoma this Saturday. 
MEN’S SOCCER 

irish finish with tough test 

By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
with only two games re­maining until the start of the Big east championship, the no. 7 irish close out the regular season with a cru­cial pair of games against no. 3 marquette this week. 
notre dame (12-3-0, 4-2­0 Big east) faces the golden eagles (14-1-0, 5-1-0) at alumni stadium tonight and in milwaukee, wis., on saturday. 
The irish currently sit tied for third in the Big east Blue division, three points be­hind first-place marquette. only the top three teams in each division get byes in the Big east tournament, and the results from tonight and saturday night will likely determine notre dame’s conference tournament positioning. 
“it’s quite incredible just how strong the Blue division has been this year,” irish coach Bobby clark said. “i was just looking at the rpis yesterday and there are ac­tually five Big east teams in the top 11 in the coun­try … and actually four of these teams are in the Blue division, which shows the tremendous strength of Big east soccer at the moment.” 
The games against marquette will mark the only time in the regular sea­son the irish will play an op­ponent twice. despite two games in such a short time frame against the same op­ponent, clark said the irish are only concerned with wednesday’s match. 
“i think you’ve just got to focus early on wednesday’s game and then we’ll hope­fully put in a really good 
see soccer PAGE 18 

WAKING THE ECHOES | BrighT diKe 
MLS star thankful for his time at ND 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 
on a Friday night in ventura, calif., former irish forward Bright dike heard something snap in his right leg. The portland Timbers signee went down in the preseason game be­ing played on that night in February 2011 — one of the preparation games for the Timbers’ first season in the mls. after scoring 10 goals in division ii in 2010, dike would head to the bench with a torn achilles tendon as his team headed onto the biggest stage. 
“it was really tough be­cause here you are finally playing in the mls where you wanted to, pretty much that’s been one of my main goals the whole time i was at notre dame, you know, to get to the mls level and be playing at that level,” dike said in a phone interview with The observer on oct. 
5. “To finally get there and to and then get an achilles injury, that was really kind of devastating.” 
dike suffered a notable setback in his notre dame career, as well. after mod­erate production in limited minutes during his first two years with the team, dike redshirted his junior year due to personal reasons. although dike did not take the field during the 2007 season, he said he cred­its irish coach Bobby clark with making the experience a positive one. 
“i just know that it was an unfortunate circumstance,” he said. “But, at the same time [clark] still made me feel like part of the team … some coaches would have just only cared about who 
see clarK PAGE 16 




