THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOvER NEWSPAPER SERvING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARY’S IT ACCURATELY 

vOLUME 46, ISSUE 3 | THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
Student reports assault 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) is investigat­ing a sexual assault that occurred on campus over the weekend, according to an email sent to students Wednesday afternoon. 
The reported sexual as­sault occurred in a dorm during the early hours of Sunday morning, police said. The victim knew the person who allegedly com­mitted the assault. 
“Sexual assault can hap­pen to anyone,” the email stated. “College students are more likely to be assaulted by an acquaintance than a stranger. This means that the person perpetrating the assault could be part of the campus community.” 
In the email, NDSP re­minded students to be aware 
see ASSAULT PAGE 3 


 Title IX streamlined at ND 
Counseling 
Law  & Advocacy  Medical  Hall  
Enforcement  Services  Services  Staff  
Call 911 for  University  University Health  Rectors  
emergency  Counseling Center  Services  
assistance  574.631.7336  574.631.7497  Assistant Rectors  
and RAs  
NDSP  Campus Ministry  Local Emergency  
574.631.5555  Religious Staff  Rooms  University  
574.631.7800  Disciplinary  
Local Police  St. Joseph Regional  Process  
S-O-S Rape Crisis  Medical Center  
South Bend  Center  574.335.5000  Office of Residence  
574.235.9201  574.289.4357  Life  
Memorial Hospital  574.631.5551  
Mishawaka  574.647.1000  
574.258.1678  
Able to remain Confidential  

By MEGAN DOYLE 
Managing Editor 
The email that appeared in stu­dent inboxes Wednesday afternoon was the first of its kind this year, but it is not likely to be the last. 

“Crime alert,” it read. “Sexual as­sault reported.” 
The email informed students of the first assault reported on campus this year. It also arrived a little more than a year after the beginning of a new and more structured sexual as­sault policy at Notre Dame. 
That subject line may be jar­ring, but associate vice president of Residence Life Heather Russell is familiar with reports of sexual as­sault on a college campus. 
And she doesn’t mind if, for the moment, students are familiar with them too. 
“I’m a firm believer that if we’re building a system that works … our students will know, and the num­bers (of reports) will go right up,” Russell said. “That’s not in my opin­ion because there are more sexual assaults or sexual harassment cases on campus. It’s because people who previously would not have reported are now coming forward to report. And that’s what we actually hope will happen.” 
In addition to her position at 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 

the head of Residence Life, Russell served as the University’s Deputy Title IX coordinator this past year. As the University adjusted its sexual as­sault policies to reflect new require­ments from the federal government, she was the first point of contact for all reports of sexual assault on campus. 
In the first year of the new policy, Russell said she handled eight re­ported cases of alleged sexual as­sault. Six additional cases of alleged sexual harassment, which include a variety of environmental concerns such as language or posters, were 
see POLICY PAGE 5 


GSA gains traction 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
While most Notre Dame students left campus and their extracurricular pursuits for the summer, members of the Progressive Student Alliance’s (PSA) 4 to 5 Movement and AllianceND have worked to maintain the momen­tum their groups gained late last semester in their advo­cacy on behalf of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgen­der (LGBT) community on campus. 
That momentum peaked when the University deferred its May decision on the approv­al of AllianceND, a student gay-straight alliance, as an of­ficially recognized club until early in the fall 2012 semes­ter, according to the group’s deferral letter from Peggy Hnatusko, director of student 
see GSA PAGE 5 


Charity work empowers girls abroad 
Seventeen 
Student starts 
recognizes ND organization 
senior’s work with chapter at St. 
She’s the First Mary’s College 
By TORI ROECK By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer Saint Mary’s Editor 
The next cover girl for 

Saint Mary’s junior Mileva Seventeen magazine might be 
Brunson hoped to bring global a familiar face. Senior Lindsay education from the halls of Brown has been named a final-the College to women in need ist for Seventeen’s second-an-around the world. As president nual “Pretty Amazing Contest,” of one of the readers that has work and tours the world giv-the time. of the Saint Mary’s College and the winner will be put on done something that they say is ing speeches on behalf of “My friend in New York City chapter of She’s the first, the cover of the magazine’s ‘pretty amazing,’” Brown said. Seventeen, Brown said. who’s the president of She’s Brunson is now able to do just October issue. “It can be anything from … Brown said she found out the first found out about it on that. 
Brown said the contest re-charity work or an athletic ac-about the contest from the Twitter …. and she forwarded it She’s The first is a non-profit wards girls who have been do-complishment or dance.” president of the non-profit onto me,” she said. “It was due organization that sponsors ing exceptional work. In addition to appearing She’s the first, an organization April 30th, and I never really got girls’ education in the develop­
“Each year Seventeen puts on the cover of Seventeen that sponsors girls’ tuition in around to it until the last day.” ing world through social media a real girl on the cover to cel-Magazine, the winner also impoverished areas; she was ebrate the accomplishments receives $20,000 toward her working for She’s the first at see AMAZING PAGE 4 see fIRST PAGE 4 


HIGGS BOSON PAGE 3 vIEWPOINT PAGE 6 TAYLOR SWIfT PAGE 8 M. TENNIS PAGE 16 W. vOLLEYBALL PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor Business Manager
 Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: Kristen Durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Monica McCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Name a song that described your summer. 


Alex Hansen 
freshman 
Knott 
“Party in the USA” 
Alexis Olson 
freshman 
farley 
“All-American Girl” 
Brian Carrion 
Junior 
Duncan 
“We Are Young” 

Kyle Walsh 
Sophomore 
Dillon 
“Drunk On You” 
Sydney Rickelman 
Junior 
PW 
“Some Nights” 
Troy Laedtke 
Sophomore 
Keough 
“Happy Birthday” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Tori Roeck Katie Heit Email obsnews@gmail.com
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Nicole Michels Peter Steiner Maddie Daly Matthew Defranks 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday
Brandon Keelean Maria fernandez 
Photo Viewpoint 

First Visit Family Swim Biathalon Women’s Soccer Cassat and Beyond
Mackenzie Sain Caroline Lang 
Basilica, Grotto Assessment Boat House Alumni Stadium Snite Museum 9 p.m. - 10 p.m. Rockne Memorial 10 a.m. - 12 p.m. 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. Ends October 7 Campus Ministry 5:30p.m. -7:30p.m. RecSports biathalon ND vs. East Carolina Exhibit highlighting
Corrections 

introduces freshmen Water activities at the at St. Joe’s Lake. modern artists. The Observer regards itself as to ND sites. pool. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Movie on Quad Hamlet Men’s Soccer Moderni-TEA Swim Lesson 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
North Quad DPAC Alumni Stadium Snite Museum Registration
however, recognize that we will make 
9:30p.m. -11p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. Rockne Memorial 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
“The Lorax” is on the Last production ND vs. Duke Sip tea and converse Closes September 7
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
big screen outside. in the week-long about modern art. Swim lessons for all
we can correct our error. 

Shakespeare Festival. ages. 

NDSMCOBSERvER.COM | THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 2012 | THE OBSERvER 

Assault 
CONTINUED fROM PAGE 1 
of their safety and watch out for friends to reduce the chances of a sexual assault. 
Information about sexual as­sault prevention and resources for survivors or sexual assault can be found online with both NDSP and the Committee for Sexual Assault Prevention, the email stated. 


Lecture explores impact of Higgs boson 
By CHRISTOPHER BARNES 
News Writer 

Professor Colin Jessop, an experi­mental particle physicist, delivered a lecture Wednesday on the landmark discovery of the Higgs boson, better known as the “God particle,” which surfaced last month at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), an under­ground facility located in Geneva, Switzerland. 
Jessop said the standard model of particle physics describes the par­ticles that exist in the universe and how they decay, and this model pro­vided the foundation for the Higgs’s discovery. 
“The standard model of par­ticle physics includes two types of particles: hadrons, those that are composed of quarks, and leptons, el­ementary particles with no constitu­ent parts,” Jessop said. “The Higgs field is the means by which these types of particles acquire mass.” 
Jessop said the effect of the Higgs’s field upon hadrons and leptons can be likened to a boat floating in a lake. 
“When a boat floats within a lake, the water particles interact with the boat’s particles to provide a drag force, slowing the boat down,” he said. “The lake represents the Higgs field, which provides fundamental particles with mass as they move within it. Just as the bottom of the boat is surrounded by the lake, so are all particles immersed within the Higgs field.” 
Jessop compared a ripple on the surface of a lake to the boson’s effects. 
“When an object moves on the surface of a lake, the event causes a ripple that disturbs the water’s sur­face,” he said. “In the same manner, the Higgs particle travels outward from the source of the disturbance in the Higgs field.” 
Jessop said understanding the historical background of the search for the Higgs boson reveals the im­portance of its discovery. 
“The Higgs mechanism was first proposed by Peter Higgs, a theoretical physicist working at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland,” he said. “The scientific community realized the signifi­cance of his ideas in the 1970s, and we have been searching for the par­ticle responsible for the phenomena ever since.” 
The United States was in the pro­cess of building a facility to house experiments for the search in the early 1980s, but the project was never completed, he said. 
“The Superconducting Super Collider was approved by President Reagan to find the Higgs boson, but President Clinton cancelled the construction of the collider in 1993,” Jessop said. “Politicians overlooked the fact that it would have cost less to finish the construction of the collider rather than eliminating it entirely, so it was done away with.” 

The LHC opened in 2008 in the hopes that it would quicken the path to the Higgs’ discovery, Jessop said. 
“The LHC has a circumference of sixteen miles and collides pro­tons together at an energy of 14 Tev, which is still only a fraction of a Joule of energy,” he said. “The project cost about $6 billion, $2 billion of which was donated by the United States in funding construction.” 
The Higgs discovery is only the beginning of the work at the LHC, which will undergo improvements in the future, Jessop said. 
“An intensive series of upgrades to the accelerator and detector to enhance data taking is planned through 2021,” he said. “The question that we will hope to ulti­mately achieve with these upgrades is the following: Is this exactly the Standard Higgs model we think it is?” 

Jessop said he looks forward to pursuing the new questionsethat will arise now that the existence of a Higgs-like particle has been confirmed. 
“The Higgs particle could be either fundamental or composite, which means that it could be composed of smaller particles or be entirely uni­form,” he said. “In addition, there could be more Higgs according to the Standard Model. One theory, known as supersymmetry, includes three neutral Higgs and two charged Higgs.” 
Contact Christopher Barnes at cbarnes4@nd.edu 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 


THE OBSERvER | THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

had on that Nepali village. 
president and secretary to as-are using social media (and

Amazing First 
“The boys really started 
sist her while she was abroad. creative fundraising ideas,

CONTINUED fROM PAGE 1 CONTINUED fROM PAGE 1 
respecting the girls when 
“I had sent out a school-like cupcakes) to collectively 

Brown said she started they realized, ‘Oh, they 
and student leadership so wide email through the change girls’ lives around the 
working for She’s the first her can play soccer,’” she said. 
they can be the first in their Student Government Office world,” Tibbetts said. “They 
sophomore year by running “It was weird. [These are] 
families to graduate from sec-on campus and received such are using their own access 
a simple bake sale with the things we don’t think about, 
ondary school, Brunson said. a great response from the stu-to higher education to pay 
help of her then-teammates but in their community it’s 
“I found out about She’s dents here,” Brunson said. it forward to girls who are 
on the Notre Dame women’s ground-breaking.” 
the first through my wom-Every semester, the Saint simply striving to complete 
soccer team to raise money So far, the S.E.G.W.A.Y. 
en’s studies course last year,” Mary’s chapter of She’s the a basic education — an idea 
for tuition at a girls’ school in project has launched three 
Brunson said. “for my final first will hold an event to we hope continues to spread 
Nepal. girls’ soccer teams in Nepal 
paper I researched girls’ edu-raise funds for the girls they across their campuses and 
“I went on the Nepal web-and is expanding to other 
cation in developing coun-sponsor, Brunson said. the state.” 
site and emailed the found-countries, Brown said. 
tries which is how I learned “Our first fundraiser will be Brunson said she wants to 
er,” she said. “It was really “I’m creating one in 
about She’s The first.” a cupcake bake-off, much like see her chapter succeed. 
cool talking to her and tell-Cambodia right now with 
After conducting research, the one that Notre Dame’s “With this being our first 
ing her, ‘Oh, my soccer team the Somaly Mam foundation 
Brunson said she wanted to chapter holds, in October,” semester, I hope to have a 
helped me raise the money,’ which works with child sex-
get Saint Mary’s involved she said. “Lindsay Brown, the good response from the girls 
and she used to play soccer. trafficking survivors,” she 
with the organization. president of the chapter at so we can create a strong club 
We instantly hit it off.” said. “We’re also partnered 
“Notre Dame already had a Notre Dame, began the cup-foundation,” Brunson said. 
This experience led Brown with a team in Kenya. Our 
chapter so I knew it was pos-cake bake-off which has be-“My goal for She’s the first is 
to start her own non-prof-goal is to help them fund 
sible for Saint Mary’s to cre-come a national campaign for to raise campus-wide aware-
it, the S.E.G.W.A.Y. project, their team trip to a tourna­
ate a chapter with She’s the She’s the first.” ness for our cause.” 
which stands for “Soccer ment in Minnesota next July.” 
first where students would Brunson said she and If even one girl can receive 
Empowering Girls Worldwide Brown said she hopes the 
be very interested,” she said. Brown have been in contact a chance for education, the 
and You.” Pretty Amazing Contest will 
“While I was abroad in Rome with hopes to combine efforts boundaries are limitless, 
“It kind of worked out that it create publicity for her or-
last spring, I began the pro-with She’s the first to create Brunson said. 
stands for that because when ganization and inspire other 
cess of creating a chapter on larger events between the two “Not only [is She’s the first 
I got to Nepal, the girls … girls to make efforts to per-
campus.” campuses. a] great opportunity to reach 
were just so timid, reserved form service. 
Speaking with the Student Tammy Tibbetts, founder out to global students, but to 
and shy,” Brown said. “I was “I hope girls can realize 
Involvement Office at Saint and president of She’s the take the opportunity of our 
telling my mom, ‘What good that something as simple as 
Mary’s led Brunson back to first, said she was impressed education at SMC and edu­
is it to have them in the class-a bake sale can make a huge 
her women’s studies profes-by the work Brown and cate other girls around the 
room if they’re not leaders impact on a girl’s life,” she 
sor, she said. Brunson have done on their world,” she said. 
in the community?’ That’s said. 
Brunson said her professor campuses.“I’m so proud of for more information on 
when I realized soccer can be Brown said the contest’s 
helped her to find an advis-the global impact students in She’s the first, contact Mileva 
used to teach confidence and results should be announced 
ing faculty member for the Indiana are making through Brunson at mbruns01@saint­
leadership so they can segue within the next two weeks. 
club while Brunson worked She’s the first. Both Saint marys.ed 
into community leaders.” 

on getting together a small Mary’s and Notre Dame, 
Brown said she was amazed Contact Tori Roeck at 
team comprised of herself led by Mileva Brunson and Contact Jillian Barwick at 
as the president with a vice Lindsay Brown, respectively, jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
by the impact the soccer team vroeck@nd.edu 

NDSMCOBSERvER.COM | THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 2012 | THE OBSERvER 

Policy 
CONTINUED fROM PAGE 1 
also brought to her office. 
Those numbers significantly ex­ceeded the staff’s expectations for the number of reports this past year, Russell said. 
“I think in terms of setting the right expectations, the timeline and the process, students knew what to expect,” Russell said. “Students didn’t seem surprised who went through the process. I believe we had really good communication throughout the process, and we were timely in our investigations and our decisions.” 
Making adjustments 
A report of sexual assault begins with a conversation. Last year, the University’s new policy laid out guidelines for bringing that con­versation to Russell’s attention for a Title IX investigation. 
Some sources — members of Campus Ministry, health profes­sionals at St. Liam’s or local hospi­tals, counselors — could keep the conversation confidential. 
Others — resident assistants, pro­fessors, law enforcement — were re­quired to bring such conversations to Russell’s attention. 
“Rectors were considered con­fidential sources last year,” Russell said. “This year, OCR [the (Office of Civil Rights in the Department of Education]) has asked us to keep all hall staff in the same category.” 
After Russell learns of an assault, she said the investigation must be conducted within 60 days. In that time period, Russell issues a no-contact order between the accused and the accuser, and each party is assigned a sexual assault resource coordinator (SARC) to help him or her through the process of the in­vestigation. Sometimes this process involved a series of interviews to de­scribe the reported assault to Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP), a Title IX investigator and the ResLife disciplinary investigators. 
“What I consistently heard was it was a little overwhelming for our students, both the complainant and the accused, to go through what felt like a repeat process,” Russell said. 
Now, the interview process will be more streamlined and less re­petitive, Russell said. If both parties have been interviewed by NDSP, they do not need to repeat those in­terviews with more investigators in Russell’s office. 
“We’re cutting out that middle process,” she said. 
Breaking a trend 
In April 2011, all universities and colleges also received a message about sexual assault. This one came in the form of the “Dear Colleague” letter issued last spring by the OCR. 
The letter called for all colleges to more strongly implement Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits sexual discrimination at institutions that receive federal fund. The letter required the University to create Russell’s position and develop a more clearly outlined investigation process for sexual assault. 
Russell said OCR penned the let­ter and changed the federal regula­tions to combat the trend of “bad actors,” or repeat perpetrators of sexual assault. 

“So [if] a student assaults one of our students, there is a high likeli­hood that that student will hurt somebody else,” Russell said. “So even though that student who was assaulted may not want to pursue the case, if we don’t pursue it, an­other one of our students may be at risk.” 
Previously, Russell said Notre Dame’s policy allowed the victim of an assault to determine whether he or she wanted to pursue disciplin­ary or criminal action against the accused. If a victim requested not to go forward with any penalties, the case would automatically be closed. 
In the letter, OCR required uni­versities to pursue cases against any individuals who might be a bad ac­tor, even if the victim did not want to open an investigation for university discipline or criminal justice. 
“The fear across the country was that what that ‘Dear Colleague’ let­ter was asking would inadvertently have a chilling effect on reports of sexual assault or sexual harassment on a college campus,” Russell said. 
Instead, the increase in reports showed an opposite effect. And de­spite the high possibility of bad ac­tors, Russell said she did not work with a single case that involved a repeat offender this past year. 
“The reason the guidelines were put in place was to ferret out those kinds of people, and as of yet, in one year testing the guidelines, we did not see that here,” Russell said. 
A veteran advocate for sexual as­sault prevention, Russell said she was not surprised by the trend she did discover in this year’s reports — alcohol abuse in connection with sexual assault. 
“I’m happy to say we didn’t find [that trend at Notre Dame],” Russell said. “What we found to be a trend is what we knew to be a trend even before this year, which is in cases of sexual assault on our campus typi­cally alcohol is involved with at least one of the parties, sometimes with both parties.” 
Looking ahead 
This week marked the begin­ning of the policy’s second year in operation, but it also is the end of Russell’s tenure ae Deputy Title IX Coordinator. As she returns her focus to Residence Life, Dr. Bill Stackman will assume control of sexual assault investigations. 
Stackman will officially begin his job as the associate vice president for Student Services on Monday. 
“We’d like to get to the place where Title IX is less about our re­action to cases and more about a comprehensive model that has to do with prevention, education, in­tervention and response,” Russell said. “And [Stackman] is a person well equipped to do that.” 
Russell said her time as a shep­herd for the new policy was de­manding but positive. 
“It was a fantastic part of the posi­tion not because I want those things to happen, but because it’s great to be able to be present to students in those kinds of situations and help see they get the resources they need and help bring things to closure for them. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
GSA 
CONTINUED fROM PAGE 1 
activities for programming. The coalition’s summer efforts in­cluded asking members of the extended Notre Dame family — students, families, friends — to share their personal accounts of why a gay-straight alliance is important to the University and its students in particular, junior PSA co-president Alex Coccia said. [Editor’s Note: Coccia is a columnist for The Observer]. 
“Part of what we stressed at the end of the semester when the decision came out was including student voices in this review, so we asked people to write in their personal responses through channels like facebook and our website,” he said. “We’ve gotten 190 responses, all well-written, some of which are very short or very long, include personal sto­ries or draw on experiences at Notre Dame.” 
Coccia said several responses focus on Notre Dame’s mission as a place where “learning be­comes service to justice,” as well as principles of theology. The group plans to give the collected responses to vice President for Student Affairs Erin Hoffmann Harding. 
Sophomore Lauren Morisseau, PSA co-president, said the written responses con­vey widespread support for the LGBT community at Notre Dame and its goals for the future. 
“It’s amazing to read through names I’ve never seen before, and it shows the breadth of how far this [movement] has reached and the connection it’s made to students,” she said. 
Additionally, the coalition re­ceived input from outside the Notre Dame community, Coccia said. 
“People at other Catholic uni­versities wrote in to talk about their experiences and the good gay-straight alliances have done for them there,” he said. “Boston College also reached out to us on Twitter, and a few other univer­sities have joined our coalition and expressed their support, so that’s been great.” 
Morisseau said that display of outside support demonstrates camaraderie between college students around the country. 
“Sometimes there’s rivalry between colleges, but over this, there’s really no rivalry,” she said. “They want the best for us, and that’s a beautiful thing.” 
Within the Notre Dame com­munity, the 4 to 5 Movement has a “greater calling” than simply achieving club recognition for AllianceND, Coccia said. 
“[Getting AllianceND recog­nized] is a substantial part of what we’re aiming for, but it has a greater calling to make change to the student body environment,” he said. “I think we reached a real high point last semester, so as we continue with semester activities, we will always aim to create a more welcoming, inclu­sive environment.” 
Coccia said the coalition’s primary focus at the moment is updating freshmen and new students about the current situa­tion on campus through several media. 
“It’s refreshing to know that many freshmen already know about [the 4 to 5 Movement] un­solicited, and student initiative has been very high just in the first weekend with people tak­ing it upon themselves to make the experience for freshmen in frosh-O, dorm life and club life more inclusive on campus,” Coccia said. 
Senior AllianceND officer Karl Abad said he hopes to see the en­thusiasm continue. 
“We have to keep the momen­tum up going into the semester,” Abad said. “All the fame and publicity the 4 to 5 Movement has gotten has been amazing for getting the message out there that something has to be done and something has to change here.” 
Morisseau said the success of the 4 to 5 Movement so far has sparked dialogue among members of the Notre Dame 
“AllianceND 
would provide 
a sense of 
community 
which I feel is 
very lacking ... It 
would provide a 
safe, welcoming 
environment 
where people 
can meet and 
learn about what 
they’re going 
through.” 
Karl Abad 
AllianceND officer 
community. 
“Even the general conversa­tion has a different vibe. When I came here last fall, nobody talked casually about issues of gender, gender identity or sexual orientation,” Morisseau said. “It’s interesting to see friends come back and all of a sudden want to talk about [LGBT inclu­sion] more after having some­thing broaden their view over summer. People are casually talking about this, and it’s kind of a mainstream topic, which is amazing.” 
Another way the campus en­vironment has  changed is the creation of the Core Room in the Lafortune Student Center, which serves as a space for mem­bers of Core Council and allies to come together, Abad said. 
“We really needed a physical space. The [Core Council] was really ambiguous before and no one really knew exactly what it was,” he said. “Now we have the opportunity to reconstruct it, so it’s very important to keep pres­sure on the administration for them to act and think about it.” 
Over the past year, the Core Council underwent some major changes in leadership when Sr. Sue Dunn, former assistant vice president for student affairs, left her position at the University. In doing so, Dunn left Core Council without a co-chair from the ad­ministration. former vice presi­dent for student affairs fr. Tom Doyle’s departure from his posi­tion also shook up the Council’s operations, Abad said. 
“Because the structure for Core Council was so decon­structed and dismantled last se­mester, it was confusing on one hand,” he said. “But at the same time, I think it instigated a spark in the administration, so maybe this is a time to look things over for review and see what things can be changed.” 
While the Core Council suc­ceeds in terms of administration and programming, Abad said the organization has also been used as a limitation in the ap­proval process for AllianceND. 
“We’ve been told we already have the Core Council, so why would we need AllianceND as well?” he said. “What should we be doing about Core Council if we want AllianceND to be ap­proved at the same time? We need to figure out what we want.” 
Abad said the proposed AllianceND would help bridge the LGBT and ally communities at Notre Dame in an inclusive environment. 
“AllianceND would provide a sense of community which I feel is very lacking. You can come to Coffee in CoMo every few weeks, but it doesn’t feel like a com­munity you can go back to,” he said. “It would provide a safe, welcoming environment where people can meet and learn about what they’re going through.” 
Abad said the proposed club aligns with Christian beliefs, especially in terms of its ser­vice component, which would include outreach to local high schools and LGBT centers. 
“We are planning to be very involved in the Michiana com­munity,” he said. “Notre Dame is meant to be helpful, en­lightening and loving, so we need to make it pertinent that AllianceND is necessary be­cause at the moment, the LGBT community doesn’t have those resources it needs to feel like it’s getting the same treatment.” 
Although the coalition is re­maining “cautiously optimistic” about the upcoming approval decision, Abad said this time feels different from before due to support from all corners of the Notre Dame community. 
“Before, it was just the gay community alone voicing its concerns, but I feel like the ally voice is a lot more important in this movement because it’s not directly affecting them per se,” he said. “The fact that straight students are very concerned about this issue should bring up red flags for the University.” 
More information about the 4 to 5 Movement and AllianceND, including the latter’s proposed constitution, can be found on the 4 to 5 Movement facebook page. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

THE OBSERvER | THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Early onset of junioritis 

Matthew DeFranks 
Associate Sports Editor 

Okay, so this column is a year early. I’m not supposed to feel nostalgic as a junior. I’m not supposed to be looking back on my two years as a junior. Juniors are not supposed to reminisce. 
But there I found myself Tuesday night sitting on DeBartolo Quad eating a ham­burger, chicken and a few too many cook­ies, just as I had as a freshman two years prior. But the food (even the ice cream) was not what was on my mind. It was the people I was sitting there with, the peo­ple that weren’t there and the memories from just two years prior. 
That day two years ago at the picnic, I stood in the ridiculously long line before trying and trying to track down my room­mate to eat with him. His description of where he was went something along the lines of: “I’m under a tree by some brick building.” Yeah, I laugh at it now, but as a lost freshman who had just finished his first day of college, it was terrifying. 
Even if he had said, “I’m sitting a few feet in front of the bench outside Stinson-Remick,” I’m not quite sure I would have known which building that was or where that damn bench was. 
I finally located my roommate (thanks to his 6-foot-5 frame,) sat down on the damp grass that may or may not have stained my khaki shorts and ate with his high school friends as if I had known them before. I met some of my best friends that night and also some acquaintances that I would barely recognize today. 
We formed a football seating group. (freshmen: I’m sure you guys had so, so much fun yesterday sitting outside to find out you are going to be in row 58 this year.) And the rest is history. 
That day, a naïve, confused, non-in­volved engineering major finally felt wel­come. I finally felt like this was the place for me. And today, a more experienced, hopefully wiser finance major still has no qualms about choosing a school nearly 1,500 miles away from home. 
But it all started there on the grass un­derneath a tree outside some building with some average food and a bunch of people I hadn’t met before. 
So forgive me for getting nostalgic about a seemingly unimportant event that happened only two years ago. But you might just feel the same way when you are in my shoes in 24 very, very short months. 
In fact, you might read about it again next August when I write this column when it’s supposed to be written and not a year early. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Fr. Jim King 
faithpoint 

I refuse to write a “Welcome to Notre Dame” article. If you’re new and haven’t felt welcomed to death over the last five or six days, a column won’t do it, and if you’re returning, you don’t need to be asked one more time, “How was your summer?” Can we just all agree to have a campus-wide moratorium on that question, effective now, and talk about anything else? 
Like the virtue of taking risks. 
Some of you tried out for the march­ing band and got rejected before your first class. Your natural reaction would be to become wary of being slapped down again and cruise through Activities Night focusing solely upon clubs and organizations that don’t hold tryouts and avoiding club sports where you might lose. The irony is only people who are bold enough to risk losing don’t become losers. 
Did you see the commercial during the Olympics — the obese kid run­ning real slow down a dusty road? The narrator said, “Greatness is no more unique to us than breathing. We’re all capable of it.” I’m not always wowed by the gospel according to Nike, but I like it. It makes us respect the kid in the class who’s usually the butt of the jokes for making the effort, kind of like the Jamaican bobsled team. As the boxing club chaplain, I know anyone who gets into a ring is a winner no matter how battered he or she is at the end. 
Those are among the people I most admire at Notre Dame. 
But the ones who leave here feeling all the warmth of the intangible aura that surrounds Notre Dame are those who not only push themselves to do something that matters but who also take the risk to be family. You don’t have to be here long to realize that people who never take a class here get wrapped up in all the mythology of Golden Domes, golden helmets and golden moments — a thin veneer for a far less idyllic, yet still graceful, reality. 
Just listen to the prayers of petition at any Sunday night Mass: dying grand­mothers, parents with cancer, friends who are depressed. Sometimes it’s a lengthy list. We may be in a cocoon in some ways, but we aren’t immune from more fragility as human beings than we like to admit. There is no one reading this article who doesn’t need friends and whose life wouldn’t be richer from stretching out and being one for anoth­er. There are few who won’t hit a wall here in their personal life or academic career and feel clobbered by a right hook they never saw coming. 
families are inherently messy, rarely merit idolizing and require heavy labor. Good ones exhibit generosity, honesty, a willingness to be flexible and a deter­mination to be present even at times when it’s not convenient for a busy study schedule. Blessed Basil Moreau, founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, firmly believed that God, life, love and vocation are best known and experienced within the context of fam­ily. It’s no accident that he shaped his schools’ environments to feel like fam­ily, including the University of Notre Dame, so people leave here after a few years with friends who are more like brothers or sisters. 
friendship and family are even harder than boxing or organic chem­istry, but the way to be a winner is to have friends for the moments when you lose a round or worry you won’t get into med school with a C on your transcript. They have a way of keeping us honest and putting our losses into perspective. Jesus said, “You are my friends if you do what I command you.” He didn’t com­mand us to be successful at anything else. Or as fr. Monk Malloy, who used to run this place, once said, “Never con­fuse your self-worth with your GPA.” 
Win or lose at whatever else you do, take the risk to become a great friend. Count those, and ephemeral as the concept is, you will know what it feels like to belong to the Notre Dame family. 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C., is the newly appointed Director of Campus Ministry at Notre Dame. He also serves as the Superior of the Corby community of the Congregation of Holy Cross and was the rector of Sorin Hall from 2003-2010. He can be reached at jking1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Worry a little bit every day and in a lifetime you will lose a couple of years. If something is wrong, fix it if you can. But train yourself not to worry. Worry never fixes anything.” 
Ernest Hemingway 

U.S. author and journalist 
WEEKLY POLL 
Why did you decide to come to Notre Dame? 
•	 
For the academics 

•	 
For the athletics 

•	 
For the weather 

•	 
For the dining hall fare 


vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 



THE OBSERvER | THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
Go for the gold 
Carolyn Green 
Guest Columnist 

Welcome to the future. Or, as we like to call it, the Holy Half Marathon 2013. The Holy Half Marathon and 10K has become an essential item on the Notre Dame bucket list, and if you haven’t had a chance to be involved with the race thus far, this is your year. 
“But the Holy Half isn’t until the spring,” you protest. “very insight­ful,” we respond.  However, there is no better time than the present to begin preparing. It is fall, a runner’s favor­ite time of year, and we live on what is arguably one of the most beauti­ful campuses in the country. So, why wouldn’t you want to get outside and run? furthermore, you most likely spent some time this summer watch­ing the Olympics, essentially a 10-day long runner’s high of astounding feats of athleticism, uplifting visa commer­cials and pride for good ol’ Team USA. 
As if you need more motivation to take a jog around campus, I pres­ent a selection of the most inspiring moments from the 2012 Summer Olympics. All pertain to track and field, so you may visualize said moments as you run past the Parseghian statue near the stadium. Or at least look them up on YouTube when it becomes too unbearably humid to run outside. 
A few days before his 4x400-meter re­lay qualifying heat, American Manteo Mitchell slipped on a staircase but felt well enough to race Aug. 9. However, while running, he heard a ‘pop,’ and felt a sudden, intense pain. In the middle of his race, Mitchell had frac­tured his fibula. Nonetheless, Mitchell ran a solid split and helped the U.S. tie with the Bahamas for the fastest qualifying time. “I heard it, and I felt it,” Mitchell told the Associated Press. “But I figured it’s what almost any per­son would’ve done in that situation.” Of course. 
When Dominican felix Sanchez found out his grandmother had passed away the day of his heat in the 400-me­ter hurdles at the Beijing Olympics, he failed even to qualify. To honor her memory, Sanchez ran in London with his grandmother’s picture attached to the back of his bib. After winning the gold medal, Sanchez removed the pic­ture, placed it on the track and kissed it. As he took the podium, Sanchez collapsed into sobs of happiness. He described the moment later, saying, “It started to rain. It made me feel like she was crying tears of joy with me.” 
In an 800-meter final so fast that the last place finisher’s time would have won a gold medal in any of the last three Olympics, a humble Maasai tribesman, David Rudisha of Kenya, won with an incredible time of 1:40.91. Rudisha, who trains with an Irish priest, broke the world record, which he had set previously. The last time Rudisha broke the record, his fellow tribesmen slaughtered 50 cattle in his honor. I would say such an outstanding performance deserves at least an extra cow. 
In perhaps one of the greatest achievements in the history of dis­tance running, Mo farah took home the gold in both the men’s 5,000- and 10,000-meter finals. The 10,000-meter race came down to the last lap, but Great Britain’s farah delivered. farah’s historic double victory brought tears to the eyes of his many British fans and to runners around the world. If seeing farah congratulated by Galen Rupp, the silver medalist in the 5,000 meter race, and farah’s best friend and training partner, didn’t warm your heart, then “Rudy” wasn’t a great movie.  
These snapshots of the 2012 games are just a few great moments out of many in the hallmark London Olympics. How can we forget Jeter, Madison, felix and Knight smash­ing the previous world record in the 4x100-meter relay final, Kirani James exchanging bibs with double-amputee Oscar Pistorius after Pistorius’ last place finish in the 400-meter semi­final, Tiki Gelana of Ethiopia setting a new Olympic record in the women’s marathon despite rain-soaked condi­tions and an injured elbow and Usain Bolt doing what he does best? 
These were an inspiring Olympics indeed making the impossible possible for runners everywhere. Get out there and run today — around St. Joseph’s Lake, as it sparkles in the autumn sun, or past the Dome, as gold as the athlete’s medals. Run like an Olympic champion today. 
Contact Carolyn Green at cgreen9@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Choice of two futures 
Adam Newman 
Elephant in the Room 

During the summer, I wrote a profile about Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, before he was picked to be Mitt Romney’s running mate. Below is the profile. My next article will explain why Paul Ryan is not a good choice to be Mitt Romney’s running mate. 
Even though I am a Democrat, I will admit that I have a great admiration for Republican Representative Paul Ryan (WI-1). Unlike most Republicans, he correctly identifies health care as the driver of the deficit, while many Republicans would make you think that it was foreign aid, food stamps and Nancy Pelosi’s jet. In 2008, Ryan proposed the “Roadmap”, a conservative ap­proach to bring America’s fiscal house in order. for the past two years, as Chairman of the House Budget Committee, he has turned the Roadmap into a budget that changes spending and taxes to bring the budget into balance in the long term. 
In each of his budgets, Ryan presents “the choice of two fu­tures.” One “future” is the status quo, where the unsustainable increase in entitlement spending depresses growth and leads to a fiscal crisis similar to the one taking place in the Euro Zone. The other “future” is one with a smaller government and lower tax burden, leading to a robust economy and averting a debt crisis. 
As you might expect, Democrats loathe the Ryan budget. Ryan would replace the traditional Medicare program with a voucher program (called “premium support”) that would give those cur­rently under age 55 a set payment to buy health care insurance when they become eligible for Medicare at 65, with the payment growing at a rate considerably less than health care inflation. This would, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, raise overall health care costs for the average Medicare beneficiary. Ryan’s budget would also make deep cuts to non-defense discretionary spending (the portion of the budget that funds investments, social programs and government agen­cies,) leaving it to be approximately 0.75 percent of GDP by 2050. (Historically, it has been roughly four percent.) This would es­sentially starve the federal government of its regulatory powers, investments in education and infrastructure and social spend­ing for the poor. Amidst these cuts, Ryan would lower tax rates for high-income earners. Even if Ryan eliminated tax expendi­tures, it would be more likely that the net effect would reduce the tax liability on high income earners and increase it for everyone else. 
While I do have a tremendous amount of respect for Ryan, I still have many issues with him. While Ryan may promote him­self as a fiscal conservative, his record does not reflect it. Ryan voted for the George W. Bush tax cuts, a Medicare prescription drug plan and two wars, all without finding a way to pay for them, leading to the major accumulation of debt during Bush’s presidency. 
Moreover, Ryan tends to use language that teeters on dema­goguery. He often references the works of Ayn Rand (“Atlas Shrugged”) and friedrich von Hayek (“Road to Serfdom”). He also commonly describes President Obama’s initiatives using phrases like “government-centered,” “crony capitalism” and “class warfare.” These terms are disingenuous at best and lies at worst. 
While Ryan may be good at offering his own bold proposals, he is very bad at being able to accept others. In 2010, he was one of three House Republicans appointed to the Simpson-Bowles fiscal commission. The proposal the commission produced gave Ryan 70 percent of what he would have wanted in a deficit reduc­tion plan: cuts in social programs, tax reform, changes to health care and trillions in deficit reduction. However, Ryan voted against the proposal, most likely because it raised tax revenue and cut defense spending, two issues on which Ryan could not compromise. Alan Simpson, a former Republican senator and co-chairman of the committee, recently reflected on the general unwillingness of politicians to compromise on “fareed Zakaria GPS”: “If you want to be a purist, go somewhere on a mountain­top and praise the east or something. But if you want to be in politics, you learn to compromise. And you learn to compromise on the issue without compromising yourself. Show me a guy who won’t compromise and I’ll show you a guy with rock for brains.” 
Paul Ryan has shown tremendous leadership by offering his choice of two futures. However, if Ryan refuses to compromise on his proposal, it will continue to be exactly what it is — a pro­posal — that is only worth the paper it is written on. Ryan is often cited as the smartest member of Congress due to his knowledge of the federal budget, but due to his embrace of purity over pragmatism and conservative ideology over compromise he is unknowingly leading America towards the “future” that he has dedicated his life to warning us about. 
Adam Newman is a senior finance major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


THEOBSERvER | THURSDAY,AUGUST 23, 2012 |NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
What’s up with Taylor Swift? 
something,anythingtosing about aside from her dating life. She really is holding herself back, and it’s unfortunate to watch. 
But more important and slight­ly more troubling, Taylor is being quite the hypocrite and a bad in­fluence to boot singing about all this dating nonsense. for some­one who supposedly despises the paparazzi and has engaged in le­gal wrangling with the tabloids, Swift seems awfully eager to air her dirty laundry and hang her exes out to dry. 
While it may seem like her mu­sic may be therapeutic or empow­ering, Taylor is publicly painting the men in her life as the scoun­drel and herself as the victim. Last time I checked, I haven’t heard Taylor Lautner or Joe Jonas sing­ing about Taylor being a villainess 
— what gives her the right to do so to them? 
Not only is that catty, but it also sets a bad example for her army of young fans, who are receiving the message over and over from Swift to fall in love, then drag their former Prince Charming through the mud once he has served his purpose. This is not quite the message we want from America’s sweetheart. 
So Taylor, I just wanted to for­mally thank you. Just when I thought it was safe to go out at night, your new song came out. If it’s a love story, you probably should just have said no. 
Contact Sam at
Stryker  sstryke1@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
AP 
Sam Stryker 

Assistant Managing Editor 
Taylor Swift, thank you for ruin­ing my senior year. 
Just when I thought our mid-western paradise of a campus was safe, the “country” star has reemerged on the quintessential Notre Dame playlist, all thanks to her new single, “We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together.” 
Some things in the life of a Notre Dame student are just rou­tine — the North face and Sperry catchy. But I know this song will be beaten to death, resurrected, and beaten to death all over again, a musical zombie courtesy of the gaggle of Swift-crazed students at this University. 
I’ll give it to her, Taylor is nothing if not consistent. Unfortunately, her consistency has infected Notre Dame students, male and female alike, like a pandemic — a Black Plague of griping country-pop music, if you will. 
Listen, Taylor, we get it — life is tough when you’re tall, skinny, rich, blonde, famous and have 
finny’s on Wednesdays and dreadful weather. Well, add the latest Taylor Swift track bleating about her “unfortunate” love life being on heavy rotation to the list. It would seem whatever the latest T-Swift jam is, it gives the Notre Dame victory March a run for its money in terms of plays on campus. 
uniform,football Saturdays,dated a who’s-who of Hollywood 
seems to be about boys. I mean, where would she be without “Love Story” or “Our Song”? When it comes to her music, Taylor is like a chameleon who can only alter­nate between two colors — always about her love life, either singing a sad or happy tune. Show some versatility, girl. 
Taylor’s lack of lyrical creativ­ity is frustrating on several levels. first of all, there is no denying the girl is talented. She is gorgeous and has a voice to match. It would be great if she could show some range in what she sings about — family, fun, whatever. I mean, if Rihanna can create a smash hit singing about umbrellas, I think Taylor Swift can come up with hunks. Unfortunately, her mes­sage doesn’t really resonate with me, and I’m not so sure why it does with so many students here. I don’t know any fellow classmates who have encountered problems dating a Kennedy or Twilight star, all while shuffling between sellout concerts and award shows. 
Even when Swift does focus on 
They say lightning neverthe sunny side of life, it always 
strikes the same place twice. Unfortunately, Taylor Swift never got the memo. Hell hath no fury like a Nashville pixie scorned, apparently. 
Taylor’s new song is about — surprise — her frustration with a former flame. Never one to not beat a dead horse, this is familiar territory for Taylor — think “Back to December” or “The Story of Us,” both dealing with the difficult wa­ters following a relationship gone awry. 
for the next semester, I know I can count on hearing Taylor’s depressing lyrical story about her ex-boyfriend several times each evening. It’s not so much that I dis­like the song, as it is actually quite 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

THE OBSERvER | THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 

What: “The Lorax” Where: North Quad When: 9:30 p.m. How Much: free 

The Student Union Board teams up with the Student Activities Office, the Office of Sustainability and visit South Bend to bring Dr. Seuss’s “The Lorax” to campus in a special viewing on North Quad. Grab a blanket and a few friends and enjoy the free popcorn and re­portedly beautiful weather, not to mention one of Seuss’s classics. 
FRIDAY 


What: “To Rome With Love” Where: DPAC When: 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. How Much: $5 
The latest oddball comedy from Woody Allen features a wide-rang­ing cast including the director himself, Alec Baldwin, Penélope Cruz, Jessie Eisenberg, Ellen Page and Alison Pill. The film fol­lows four different vignettes, and though it received mixed reviews, its illustration of the beauty of Italy can always be appreciated. 
SATURDAY 

What: B1 Block Party When: 5:00 p.m. Where: B1 Parking Lot How Much: $10 
Legends is putting on its annual kickoff party in the B1 parking lot this Saturday with featured band Boys Like Girls. But there’s more than just music, as there will also be a beer garden for those over 21, a wide variety of foods, games and other fun stuff to do. And don’t miss the other band of the night, Breathe Carolina, and their hit “Blackout.” 
SUNDAY 

What: Hamlet When: 2:00 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Performing Arts Center How Much: $14 for students 
Shakespeare’s classic tragedy puts on its final show this Sunday as the finale of the Notre Dame Shakespeare festival. The show features a number of highly tal­ented and well-experienced play­ers, and the story is as thrilling and relevant as ever. The play is even one of the fastest versions students are likely to see, running around two hours and 45 minutes. 



Meghan Thomassen 
Scene Writer 

I’m sure everyone has already wearied of the staple post-summer question, “What did you do this summer?” Students’ answers vary, from internships at consulting firms, to Social Service Learning Programs in faraway lands, to envi­able caddying jobs. Their summers were filled with adventure, self-discovery and valuable life lessons. And so was mine, except my view was of a brick wall from a 14th floor window, somewhere between 57th and Broadway, New York, N.Y. 
Thanks to a miniscule office, the literary agency I interned at had books coming out of their draw­ers, their file cabinets, even their refrigerator. Now, I could forgive the hoarding if these volumes were valuable texts or well-loved classics. But I spent the summer plagued with variations of the same theme, be it “1001 New vegan Recipes” or “My Boyfriend is a vampire Werewolffaerie.” 
I sniffed down my nose at the newfangled fiction advertised along Broadway. I preferred the musty tomes exhumed from used bookstores to the Kindles and Nooks toted by commuters on the morning train. It just smelled fake to me, especially with the “fifty Shades of Grey” debacle going on. My personal library consisted mostly of classics: “The Collected Poems of Edgar Allen Poe,” “Sense and Sensibility,” with the occa­sional modern fluke, like “On the Road.” My education was founded on these wonderful books, and I was convinced anything writ­ten after 1950 was market-driven drivel, especially if it was read on a Kindle. Like Woody Allen’s nos­talgic character, Gil, in “Midnight in Paris,” I yearned for “the golden time,” dissatisfied with the modern disdain for tradition. And like every story about preconceived no­tions, my naiveté was in for a rude awakening. 
The wake-up call came as a gift from my mom, Carlos Ruiz Zafon’s second adult novel, “The Angel’s Game.” At first, I thought this was just another escapist summer read, shelved alongside “Everyone Worth Knowing” and “The Memory Keeper’s Daughter” at the popular literature table at Barnes and Noble. It fit the bill perfectly: international setting, a golden era, a splash of romance, a dash of danger. In other words: formulaic. 

In all my sophomoric, English-major wisdom, I forgot about the key to making a book great. It’s not the premise, or the location, or even the plot. It’s the craft of prose. 
Zafon’s writing can only be described as a joy. He writes in Spanish (Lucia Graves translated “The Angel’s Game” and its sequel, “The Shadow of the Wind,” into English) using words in a way that is both ingenious and virtuosic. I drew delectable pleasure from his gorgeous turns of phrase that thrummed of Spain and darkness and deceit. His version of Barcelona is bewitching, and I soon felt the same attachment to his characters as I felt with the protagonists of “Harry Potter.” 
Without spoiling too much, the main character, David Martin, is an unsuccessful, altruistic mys­tery writer tasked with writing a “religion.” A sinister gentleman channeling a well-dressed Devil wants the poor author to write a novel so creatively intoxicat­ing that it embeds itself into the hearts and minds of all who read it. Emboldened by his love for intrigue and mystery, Martin descends into a secretive, decrepit existence as he tries to decipher the clockwork of his mind and that of his patron. With its heavy focus on books and writing, the series nears “metafic­tion,” but with such expert story­telling skill that I scarcely noticed until I stumbled to the end of each chapter, speechless and strangely self-aware. 
Perhaps my love for Zafon is sim­ply an act of affirmation. How hard can it be for an English major to love a book about books? All of his major novels are about books, authors, readers, and bookstores, including his most recent work, “The Prisoner of Heaven.” I realized with hor­ror that I had fallen in love with a modern novel with whole-hearted recognition. Literature is not dead (cue the hallelujah chorus). 
In the end, it is Zafon’s thinly veiled commentary on his life as an author that makes his books “classics.” Why do scholars adore Jane Austen and Charles Dickens? They clearly and artfully expressed themselves as products of their time and history. Likewise, Zafon is a bonafide author, who has doubt­lessly struggled to put words on the page, meet deadlines and find some meaning in it all. His role in society mirrors Martin’s own tragic figure perfectly, while also weaving tangible characters and magical scenes. 
“The Angel’s Game” is nothing short of miraculous, at least for a non-believer like me, and it was all written in the 21st century. Call it redemption, or just a well-needed update, but Zafon cured my cyni­cism. I even got a Kindle, and I can’t wait to buy, or download, his next book. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Steroids continue to affect baseball 

Chris Allen 
Sports Editor 
No, it’s not the summer of 1998. 
Baseballs are not flying out of Wrigley field and the old Busch Stadium at record pace. Biceps have shrunk significantly as first basemen now look significantly less like He-Man. Mark McGwire still wears a Cardinals uni­form, but only as he strokes a graying beard from the dug­out as hitting coach. No, it’s not the summer of 1998. 
But steroids are back in baseball. What’s worse? They really never left. 
MLB commissioner Bud Selig was supposed to have delivered the drugs that divided baseball fans and tainted the game their death­blow by enacting sweeping drug testing and enacting a them unapologetically. Now a pennant contender and a rabid fan base finds itself without its best player, with a gaping hole in the middle of the lineup and in left field heading into the thick of a pennant race. Whereas a certain notable Giants left fielder of the past impacted the game with steroids by tainting its records and com­promising its integrity, this left fielder just leaves a hole in the lineup and a handful of questions. In this new era of baseball, there is less am­biguity, but more immediate impact. 

Now, move across the Bay and into Oakland, where an­other playoff contender has an empty spot in the pitching rotation thanks to another 50-game suspension handed to aging Bartolo Colon. Here was a former Cy Young win­ner seemingly rejuvenated by 
One week, two suspensions, 100 suspended games and two playoff races affected. 
50-game ban for first-time offenders. Since that time, the game has returned to normalcy — somewhat. The numbers have returned to Earth. Roger Maris’ 61 home runs in 1961 is yet again safe as a hallowed record. Sure, there have been occasional hiccups, like Manny Ramirez’ journey into the world of women’s fertility drugs, but steroids haven’t really mean­ingfully impacted baseball’s on-the-field sphere since MLB management enacted the reforms. 
That is, until this past week. 
It began with Melky Cabrera, who in a handful of years went from a pudgy and lovable fringe outfielder for the New York Yankees to a fit, strong and formidable MvP candidate hitting in the heart of the lineup for NL West con­tender San francisco. Here was a player that got a change of scenery, found the right clubhouse and manager and playing situation and was thriving like never before. At least that’s what the media thought. What he actually found was performance-en­hancing drugs, and he found a young clubhouse. Yet again, like Cabrera, all he found was steroids. One week, two suspensions, 100 suspended games and two playoff races affected. 

The lesson for the fan is to maintain a healthy skepti­cism. Just because the Bash Brothers aren’t stepping into the batters box with bulging forearms and growing cap sizes doesn’t mean steroids aren’t still out there affect­ing America’s game. Baseball has always been a game lauded for its natural beauty. The crisp cut of fresh green grass. The soft lines in raked infield dirt. The crack of a maple baseball bat against horsehide. No, this is not the summer of 1998, so it is okay to trust in that natural beauty again. Just remember the events of this week as this season and others play on, and be mindful of a game where the artificial menace is still lurking in the shadows. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NFL 

Saints designate Kromer as interim coach 
Associated Press 
METAIRIE, La.  — The New Orleans Saints designated offensive line coach Aaron Kromer as the interim head coach for the first six regular-season games, when assis­tant head coach Joe vitt will have to serve his suspension in connection with the NfL’s bounty investigation. 
vitt has been overseeing head coaching duties since Sean Payton’s full season sus­pension began in mid-April, but the Saints held off until Wednesday on a decision con­cerning who would become the figurehead of the coach­ing staff when vitt had to step aside in Week 1. 
The 45-year-old Kromer is in his fifth season with the Saints and also serves as run­ning game coordinator. 
“This was a difficult deci­sion because we have sev­eral coaches on our staff that would do a great job in this role,” general manager Mickey Loomis said. “Ultimately, I wanted to have the least amount of change with both the offensive and defensive staffs, and maintain the most continuity with the program that has been in place for the last six years.” 
The move allows offensive coordinator Pete Carmichael Jr. to maintain his focus ex­clusively on designing and calling plays for Drew Brees and the Saints’ record-setting offense. 
Defensive coordinator Steve Spagnuolo, who was a head coach the past three sea­sons in St. Louis, was another 

FOR RENT 
Purdue or Stanford game rental. Great location - half block from Eddy Street Commons. Sleeps 10+. email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for photos/ additional info. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

“Life is a highway” by  Rascal Flatts 
Well, life’s like a road that you travel on There’s one day here and the next day gone Sometimes you bend, sometimes you stand Sometimes you turn your back to the wind 
There’s a world outside every dark­ened door Where Blues won’t haunt you anymore For the brave are free and lovers soar Come ride with me to the distant shore 
We won’t hesitate To break down the guarding gate There’s not much time left today, yeay 
Life is a highway, I wanna ride it All night long If you’re going my way, I wanna drive it All night long 

option, but he is in his first season in New Orleans and trying to help the Saints ad­just to his scheme. 
“Aaron has been with us since 2008, he has coached with Sean both in college (at Miami, Ohio) and here at the Saints,” Loomis said. “He is very familiar with our team and with the methods we have been successful with. He will do a great job.” 
Kromer, who interviewed for a head coaching job in St. Louis last offseason, said he appreciated the confidence the Saints are showing in him, but also noted he sees his role as having much more to do with ensuring continu­ity than putting his personal stamp on the way the team is run. 
“Coach Payton has laid a successful foundation here and our jobs are to make sure we keep moving in that direc­tion,” Kromer said. 
Kromer had been men­tioned as an interim head coaching candidate ever since the suspensions both Payton and vitt were announced in late March, a few weeks after the NfL announced it had un­covered a bounty system in which New Orleans defenders had been paid improper cash bonuses for injuring targeted opponents. 
Neither vitt nor current and former Saints players have admitted to participat­ing in a bounty system as the NfL described it. They have said they ran only a pay-for­performance pool that of­fered a few hundred dollars 
— minimal sums relative to NfL contracts — for big plays such as interceptions, sacks, forced fumbles and big clean hits. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
Through all these cities and all these towns It’s in my blood and it’s all around I love now like I loved you then This is the road and these are the hands From Mozambique to those Memphis nights The Khyber Pass to Vancouver’s lights 
They knock me down And back up again You’re in my blood I’m not a lonely man There’s no load I can’t hold The road’s so rough this I know I’ll be there when the light comes in Just tell ‘em we’re survivors 
Life is a highway, I wanna ride it all night long. If your going my way, I wanna drive it all night long 
Life is a highway, I wanna ride it All night long (mmmm yeah) If your going my way, I wanna drive it All night long 


NDSMCOBSERvER.COM | THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 2012 | THE OBSERvER 



PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
MLB 
Indians lose eighth-straight 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — The Cleveland Indians’ latest slide could be a costly one for manager Manny Acta, and he knows it. 
Zach McAllister pitched six effective innings, but vinnie Pestano yielded a tiebreaking two-run double to Eric Thames in the eighth and Cleveland fell 3-1 at Seattle for its eighth con­secutive loss. 
The Indians’ slide comes on the heels of an 11-game skid from July 27 to Aug. 7. Cleveland has lost 21 of its last 25 and is 10­29 since the All-Star break. The last time the Indians dropped 21 of 25 was Aug. 28 to Sept. 24, 2009, according to STATS LLC. 
“It’s never been done in the history of the game where 25 guys are released,” Acta said. “They should relax. If one guy is going to go, it’s going to be me, not them.” 
Seattle has won eight in a row for its longest winning streak since it won eight straight from June 23 to July 1, 2007. The Mariners have won 15 of their last 16 home games. 
Kyle Seager set up Thames’ big hit with a one-out drive to right-center off Pestano (3-1) that he stretched into a double. 
“The ball got there a little bit before and he put the tag down,” Seager said. “(I) felt like if I tried to alter the slide and get my left hand around there, that would be my best chance.” 
Shortstop Asdrubal Cabrera argued the call by second 
MLB 
base umpire Ed Hickox, and Acta came out to dispute it. The manager was eventually ejected for the second time this season. 
“from where I was, I felt he tagged him and the guy was out,” Acta said. “Ed was right. I watched the replay and the guy was safe.” 
John Jaso was intentionally walked, Jesus Montero struck out and Thames doubled to right. 
Stephen Pryor (3-0) got two outs to get the win, and Tom Wilhelmsen threw a hitless ninth for his 19th save in 21 chances. 


Seattle won despite getting outhit 8-5. Mariners starter Hisashi Iwakuma allowed one run and six hits in 5 2-3 innings. 
McAllister gave up one run and three hits, struck out four and walked three. 
“McAllister did a very good job,” Acta said. “I just feel these guys are playing too tense.” 
Michael Saunders hit his 14th homer in the first inning to give Seattle the lead. Saunders has four homers in his last four games. 

Umpire Joyce saves worker 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX — Umpire Jim Joyce is being credited with taking quick action to help save the life of a food service worker who collapsed of an apparent heart attack at Chase field. 
Russ Amaral, vice president of ballpark operations, says Joyce happened to be walk­ing past Jayne Powers when she collapsed before Monday night’s game between the Arizona Diamondbacks and Miami Marlins. 
After deciding it wasn’t a sei­zure, as some of her co-work­ers suggested, Joyce quickly started CPR. 
Marlins bullpen catcher Jeff Urgelles, a former firefighter and paramedic, was called to the scene and began helping Joyce. 
Paramedics arrived mo­ments later and transported the woman to a hospital, where her conditioned improved. 
Joyce, Urgelles and oth­ers involved were honored in a brief ceremony before Wednesday night’s series fi­
“I knew that if something wasn’t done, this lady could actually die in front of me. It was more instinct than anything else. ” 
Jim Joyce 
MLB Umpire 

nale. Urgelles carried the Marlins’ lineup card to home plate. 
Joyce is best remembered for blowing the call that cost Detroit’s Armando Galarraga a perfect game on June 2, 2010. A major league umpire for 24 years, he was the crew chief for the Diamondbacks-Marlins series. Galarraga famously said he had no ill feelings after the umpire acknowledged he had missed the call and apolo­gized for doing so. 
Joyce did not respond to a request made through Major League Baseball on Wednesday to comment on this week’s incident. 
But he told MLB.com on Tuesday that he knew he had to act quickly when he saw the woman go down. 
“I knew something was wrong,” Joyce said. “And I knew if something wasn’t done, this lady could actually die in front of me. It was more instinct than anything else.” 
He also said he and his wife had an emotional visit with Powers in the hospital on Tuesday. 
In Wednesday’s pre­game announcement, the Diamondbacks said Powers was having a pacemaker in­stalled and would be released from the hospital in a few days. 


THE OBSERvER | THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Young talent promises success on links 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
As the Irish begin their fall sea­son, they will be joined by two of the top high school players in the nation. Notre Dame hauled in two top-10 recruits this year — fresh­men Lindsey Weaver and Talia Campbell. Irish coach Susan Holt has high hopes in these two re­cruits. Weaver will be bringing with her a 59 par-18 score and U.S. Women’s Open experience. 
On feb. 22 at a PING Junior Interclub match, Weaver (the No. 3 recruit in the nation) became the second woman golfer after Annika Sorenstam to shoot a 59 in a round of golf. Over the summer, Weaver became one of four Notre Dame women golfers to partici­pate in the U.S. Women’s Open. 
“One of my greatest accom­plishments in high school was shooting a 59,” Weaver said. “After that, playing in the U.S. Open was a great accomplishment. 
“The  U.S.  Open  taught  me  
the  importance  of  course  
management.”  

Campbell was named a 2011 

Hewlett-Packard Scholastic All-American and a 2011 AJGA Rolex Junior All-American, as well be­coming a three-time AJGA cham­pion and quarterfinalist in the 2011 US Girls Junior Championship. Weaver and Campbell recognize strengths and weaknesses. 
“My strengths are putting and ball-striking,” Weaver said. “My weakness is bunker play.” 
Campbell also cited ball-strik­ing as a strength. 
“Ball-striking is at the core of my game,” Campbell said. “If my short game was a little stronger, then I would actually be able to take ad­vantage of those opportunities.” 
Many top recruits do not choose a school in the Midwest, prefer­ring a school in the West or South. However, Weaver holds Notre Dame in high regards. 
“Nothing compared to Notre Dame’s campus and facilities,” Weaver said. “Once I visited for the first time, I instantly fell in love with the school and the many tra­ditions associated with it.” 
On the other hand, Campbell, (America’s No. 9 recruit) has long dreamed of being part of the Irish 


Piane 
CONTINUED fROM PAGE 12 
Eastern Kentucky, Ohio State, and North Carolina State. So that meet should be very, very good.” 
Rydberg and Piane also agreed that the hardest races of the season will come at the Big East Championship in van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx and at the NCAA regional meet at Wisconsin, where Notre Dame will face championship pressure and a course seemingly designed to drain runners. 
“Wisconsin is a challenge,” Piane said. “Our course frank­ly is one of the flatter, so it’s a great place to run. The Big East course, we run that in New York, van Cortlandt Park, is a bear. Those two are probably the most challenging.” 
But the biggest challenge for seniors like Rydberg might be training hard and savoring their last season while also preparing to move on. 
“It’s kind of bittersweet; I’m looking forward to doing things after college, but it’s also really hard to leave the team,” Rydberg said. “I think it’s really making me be sure to enjoy every minute that I have here left.” 
The Irish are set to start the season at the Crusader Invitational in valparaiso, Ind., on Aug. 31. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
said. “There will be enthusiasm and team spirit.” 
The freshman power duo of Weaver and Campbell will first compete for the Irish at the Mary fossum Invitational in East Lansing, Mich., on Sept. 15-16. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

community. 
“To represent Notre Dame as a student-athlete is a dream come true,” Campbell said. “The ath­letic tradition of Notre Dame combined with the outstanding academic curriculum is unri­valed. Also, coach Holt and [assis­tant coach Kyle Lynne veltri] are the best role models and coaches that any player can have.” 
Both Weaver and Campbell are looking forward to this season. 
“We will have a strong team this year,” Campbell said. “Our team has phenomenal chemistry and a tremendous amount of talent. We all have very high expectations.” 
“We will grow in our game and improve in all aspects,” Weaver PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 




Houser 
CONTINUED fROM PAGE 16 
when Notre Dame began re­cruiting her. She chose Notre Dame not only for the volley­ball program, but because of the well-rounded experi­ence she would receive. She is particularly excited for a trip to Italy the team has planned for next summer. 
“I’ve talked to girlfriends who play for other schools, and none of them have expe­riences like the ones I have here,” Houser said. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown is looking for Houser to be a leader both on and off the 
“[Coach Brown] is looking for me to make an impact on the court and get everyone fired up.” 
Jeni Houser 
Irish sophomore hitter 
court this season. Houser is hoping her intense play will serve as an example for her team. Houser will also try to set an example by once again filling up the stat sheet. Last year, she led the Irish in kills with 320. She also contribut­ed 79 digs and 70 blocks. 
“[Coach Brown] is looking for me to make an impact on the court, and get everyone fired up,” she said. “I bring a lot of energy and confi­dence when I play. I try to 


Andrews 
CONTINUED fROM PAGE 16 
and Doubles Championships in October and November, respectively. 
“The fall season is essentially an individual one,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “There is no team scoring in any of the events at a national level. 
“Most coaches treat the fall to build and make changes of games of different players on the team and to try to figure what their doubles combinations might be and exactly who might be playing.” 
Last May, the Irish graduated No. 1 singles player Casey Watt, as well as lineup mainstays Niall fitzgerald and Sam Keeton. At least three starting roster spots, therefore, will be open heading into the spring season. 
“I think with the graduation of three of our top five players from last year’s team, the focus of the fall is going to be about figuring out who, amongst the returning players and the freshmen, is go­ing to really be in the starting lineup come January,” Bayliss said. 
A variety of new players will be competing for these start­ing spots, as the Irish added five freshmen to their team this year. four of the signees come from the United States and com­peted in the Junior Nationals this summer, while freshman Eric Schnurrenberger hails from Switzerland. 
“We are really excited about the freshmen that are joining us,” Bayliss said. “Each one of them did some great things over the summer and we feel like each is going to play a big part in Notre Dame over the next four years.” 
Although part of the Irish line­up will be up for grabs, Bayliss doesn’t anticipate having any is­sues at the top spot in the lineup. 
“I don’t feel that Greg [Andrews] is going to have any problem moving into the No. 1 spot,” Bayliss said. “He’s going to be one of the better No. 1 [single players] in the country this year. 

I feel that when you can win at the very top of your lineup you have a chance to be good and Greg gives us that chance.” 
Andrews emerged last year as Notre Dame’s top singles player, ending the year ranked No. 54 in the nation. The junior from Richland, Mich., compiled a 35­10 record last season and was also named the Big East Player of the Year. 
“Greg made some big strides over the summer,” Bayliss said. “He played in a number of pro­fessional events and really gave a great accounting of himself and our program. I predict that he is capable of becoming an All-American this year and really having a breakout season.” 
The Irish will begin their fall season with a remarkable experi­ence when they travel to Dublin. The team will face off against the Irish Davis Cup team, which includes former Notre Dame tennis player Barry King, at the renowned fitzwilliam Lawn Tennis Club on Aug. 31. 
“Obviously, the opportunity to go to Ireland and have our guys experience the culture is proba­
“Obviously, the opportunity to go to Ireland and have our guys experience the culture is probably the greatest benefit to going.” 
Bobby Bayliss 
Irish coach 

bly the greatest benefit to going,” Bayliss said. “In addition, is the opportunity to play. We are play­ing at a great venue called the fitzwilliam Lawn Tennis Club. It’s one of the oldest clubs in the world and it’s the Wimbledon of Ireland.” 
The Irish will practice this week before departing for Dublin on Aug. 29. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
get everyone to have fun and stay relaxed on the court. I’m really vocal and ener­getic, and I’m usually pretty confident and composed.” 
Notre Dame will look for Houser to have a big per­formance this friday when the Irish play the defending national champions, UCLA. Houser said the Irish have been preparing for UCLA as if they were preparing for any other team. 
“We’ve been coming into practice and not thinking 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
about it,” she said. “It’s just another name on a jersey and we have to have fun and play like we always play. We can’t go in with the mindset, ‘Oh they’re better than us’. We’re just getting our reps in and getting better every day.” 
The Irish and the Bruins play Aug. 24 at 5:30 p.m. in Lincoln, Neb. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 



NDSMCOBSERvER.COM | THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 2012 | THE OBSERvER 

CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


YOUR COMIC HERE | 


YOUR COMIC HERE | 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kristen Wiig, 39; Ty Burrell, 45; Cindy Williams, 65; valerie Harper, 73. 
Happy Birthday: You will have to consider all sides of a situation before making a move. Nothing will be as you expect but your intuition will serve you well when it comes to making a final decision. Your numbers are 2, 14, 29, 30, 32, 44, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): There is money to be made. Posturing your position will make a difference. Don’t allow a personal matter to stand in your way profes­sionally. Your quick and clever way of expressing who you are will draw attention if you are networking or socializing. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Draw the line and stop anyone trying to take advan­tage of you. Time is money, and if you have something to offer, make sure you get something in return. Don’t be fooled by a fast-talking salesperson looking to make a quick buck. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Have confidence in your abilities. You have just as much to offer as anyone else. Use your imagination and you will find a way to earn more money. Love is in the stars and expressing your intentions will lead to a memorable event. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Avoid being railroaded into doing something because you want to please someone. A problem with a friend or relative can lead to uncer­tainty and changes that are difficult to fix. Compromise but make sure everyone else involved is making the same contribution. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Change can help regenerate you mentally, physically and emotionally. Experience new places and people. Before long, you will be coming up with ideas and plans for the future that will help you turn your dreams into a possibility. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Changes made at home and to the way you spend your money will help you gain greater financial security. Getting together with friends or relatives will confirm that you are on the right track and help give you what you need to continue.  

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Look at the big picture before making a final decision. Play it safe and take baby steps. You will excel if you listen to your inner voice. Good fortune will be yours if you make choices based on facts and overall costs. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Consider what you want, what you need and how you can get the ball rolling. Offer what you can in order to get the favors you need to reach your goals. Don’t trust someone making unrealistic promises. Keep your emotions in check. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Do something nice for someone. You can make alterations to your living quarters, but make sure you get the go-ahead from any­one who may be inconvenienced by your plans. An old friend or lover will influence a decision you must make.  

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don’t let added responsibilities get you down. Take care of business and keep moving in a positive direction. Love is in the stars, and planning a fun evening will enhance your personal life. An investment you hear about should be considered. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Keep your emotions out of any conversation or deci­sion you make. Take a pass if what you are asked to do conflicts with your plans. focus on your financial situation and your health. Ask someone you love for help. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): A moneymaking partnership should be considered. Whether it’s a personal or professional change you want to make, sharing the expenses and responsibilities with someone willing to work as hard as you will al­leviate stress. Love is on the rise. 

Birthday Baby: You are thoughtful, caring and insightful. You are social and curi­ous. You are Megan Doyle, Managing Editor of The Observer. Happy Birthday, Megan. 
JUMBLE | DAvID HOYT AND JEff KNUREK 


Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  


THE OBSERvER | THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
ND VOLLEYBALL MEN’S TENNIS 
Houser determined to lead 
Sophomore focuses on team unity, not individual gain 

By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Despite being named an All-Big East preseason se­lection, sophomore opposite side hitter Jeni Houser is fo­cused on bigger things — much bigger things. 
“To be honest, those awards don’t really mean anything to me,” Houser said. “It’s a team effort and in order to win, it takes everyone on the court, and sidelines, and pushing each other during practice to make teammates better. It’s a constant learn­ing experience.” 

Houser has already gone through a big learning expe­rience herself. Coming in as a freshman last season, she was focused and determined to contribute to the squad. Soon enough, she found her­self in the starting lineup. 
“It was a really exciting experience,” she said. “I came in wanting to focus on working hard and making my teammates better, and I think through playing I got a lot of experience and I have a better understanding of the game. It’s quicker than high school. I’ve improved my overall skills as a player and as a leader on the court.” 
Playing for Notre Dame is something Houser had been anticipating since her sopho­more year of high school, 
see HOUSER PAGE 14 

ND prepares for Irish competition 

By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
After falling short of expecta­tions in the Big East champion­ship and NCAA tournament last year, the outlook on the new Irish season can be defined by one word — opportunity. 
Notre Dame has the chance to strengthen its team with a strong class of freshman and will travel abroad to play a na­tional Davis Cup team. In addi­tion, No. 1 singles player junior Greg Andrews can solidify him­self as one of the nation’s best players. 
A typical fall collegiate ten­nis season consists of indi­vidual tournaments, instead of team matches, and the Irish have five such tournaments scheduled for the next three months. Andrews may also compete in the ITA All-America Championships and the ITA/ USTA National Indoor Singles 
see ANDREWS PAGE 14 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Piane forsees tough competition 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
It’s not easy to claim a confer­ence title in the Big East, where the competition includes his­torical cross country powers like villanova, Providence and Georgetown as well as three-time reigning men’s champion Syracuse. 
And it’s not easy to qualify for the NCAA championship meet, where just 31 of 310 Division I schools race for a national title. But Irish men’s coach Joe Piane remains as ambitious as ever as he embarks on his 36th season. 
“The goals are always the same: win the Big East and get to the NCAAs. Our conference may be the toughest conference in the country for cross country for both the men and the wom­en,” Piane said. “Then the other goal is to get to the NCAAs, and certainly the next goal is to try and get in the top 10 in the coun­try. Now that’s a pretty lofty goal when you consider that there are 310 teams in the country. If you’re in the top 10, boy, you’re pretty good.” 
Although the men’s side graduated three of its top seven runners from last season, Piane expects returning fifth-year senior Johnathan Shawel and sophomore Jake Kildoo to keep the lineup from faltering. 
“We didn’t run John Shawel last year, so you slip him in there. Then we have another fellow, Jake Kildoo, that didn’t run last year, and boy, he’s aw­fully good,” Piane said. “Kildoo ran in the World Junior Track Championships this year in Barcelona, Spain, so he wasn’t in our group last year. [He’s] going to be a major help.” 
Piane is happy with what he’s seen from his five fresh­men, three of whom (Michael Clevenger, Timothy Ball, and Kevin Durham) ran in the 40­man field at the foot Locker Cross Country National Championships as high school seniors. 

If all of his athletes perform well, Piane could be faced with the dilemma of which runners to hold out of the varsity seven instead of which to put in. 
“You’ve got to look at [senior] Jeremy Rae, who was basically our No. 1 man all year, and then another senior is J.P. Malette, and then Jon Shawel,” Piane said. “Arguably those guys should be in our top three or four. But you can’t count out a junior, Martin Grady, who was at the NCAAs in the 10,000[-meter]. And then you also have Walter Schafer, who is a junior. He has all the talent in the world. He could be our No. 1 man if he runs the way he’s ca­pable of running. And there’s a ton of other guys. So we prob­ably have a dozen guys to choose from to get seven.” 
The problem for the Irish is their opponents could have just as much talent on their rosters. 
“villanova had a terrific re­cruiting year,” Piane said. “Providence puts most of their efforts right into distance. And if Louisville gets the Kenyans they were trying to recruit, they’re go­ing to be dynamite.” 
The women’s side will face similarly difficult competi­tion, but they will be buoyed by a strong freshman class that includes foot Locker National Champion Molly Seidel. 
“We have three really talented freshmen, Molly Seidel, Sydni Meunier and Dani Aragon, who are performing really well al­ready,” senior Jessica Rydberg said. “It’s really exciting to have such a strong incoming class.” 
Rydberg led the Irish last sea­son, and has big plans for her fi­nal cross country campaign. 
“We want to be top three in the Big East and win the region,” she said. “I would love to be an All-American this year, which would be top 40 in the nation [as an individual]. So I think that’s my ultimate goal.” 
Both Rydberg and Piane said they are excited for the two home meets of the season, the National Catholic Championship on Sep. 14 and the Notre Dame Invitational on Sep. 28. 
“The Notre Dame Invitational is terrific,” Piane said. “We will have a pretty good array of teams who are coming, [includ­ing] florida State, Princeton, Washington State, New Mexico, 
see PIANE PAGE 12 





