
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 20, 2012 
COMMENTARY 

New arena signals the arrival of Irish hockey 
Gold helmets shining. An exclusive national TV contract. A raucous student section fill­ing a sold-out venue. A peren­nial national championship contender. No, it’s not football. It’s the newest marquee sport at Notre Dame 
— hockey. 
For de­cades, the hockey pro­gram had a spirited but limited reach. The late coach Lefty Smith built the foundations of a program that persist to this day, includ­ing a rare focus on academ­ics. But while North Dakota, Boston College and Minnesota built cavernous arenas match­ing the size of their programs, the Irish languished in the Joyce Center for 44 years, and the program with them. 
In 2005, though, things began to change when Irish coach Jeff Jackson took the helm. In his first season, Jackson took the Irish from cellar-dwellers to the middle of the pack. In his second, he led Notre Dame to its first-ever NCAA tournament win, and in his third, its first-ever Frozen Four. 
Now, coming off the pro­gram’s second Frozen Four appearance and first-ever preseason No. 1 ranking, the Irish finally have the resource that takes them from upstart program to established power. After years of recruiting in spite of the Joyce Center, Jack­son now has to do no more for a highly prized recruit than to give him a tour of the Compton Family Ice Arena. 
The state-of-the-art arena is nothing short of jaw-dropping 
— from the locker room to the player lounge, from the secondary Olympic rink to the detailed layout of the equip­ment room, every touch was put in place with the express purpose of giving Notre Dame hockey the best possible home. Jackson designed the layout of the benches to give the Irish a home-ice advantage; equip­ment manager Dave Gilbert designed the stick-preparation room to be right off the ice for mid-game preparation; even sports information direc­tor Tim Connor had a hand in designing the press box to maximize media exposure. 

The new arena is a thought­fully-designed venue meant to make Notre Dame hockey players the best they can be in an environment as quintessen­tially collegiate as any; that is, it’s a reflection of how Jackson has designed his program. Now, he finally has the re­sources to back up his recruit­ing pitch. 
The future of Notre Dame hockey is bright, and there are more changes ahead as the Irish move to the Hockey East in 2013 after the CCHA’s disbanding. But at this pivotal moment in the program’s his­tory, it’s easy to forget about the present — and this season presents an opportunity to make more memories than just a thrilling Dedication Game victory over Boston College. 
If the young squad can put aside its inconsistency, if ju­nior goalkeeper Mike Johnson can find a way to again play his best late in the season, if sophomore Anders Lee can break out of his midseason scoring slump, this squad has the potential to go farther than any Irish squad before it, an­nouncing Notre Dame’s arrival for good in a far bigger way than any arena could. 
So the Irish host Michigan in a hard-hitting matchup of top-ten teams at night, in front of a packed arena, on national TV. The winner will see its national championship hopes brighten, and tensions will be high. Gold helmets will face off against winged helmets, and the game will probably go down to the very end. 
No, it’s not football. It’s Notre Dame hockey, and it’s here to stay. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


ND, Michigan to renew rivalry 

By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off two defeats to Western Michigan, the No. 6 Irish look to rebound in the CCHA when they take the ice in one of college hockey’s biggest rivalries for a pair of home contests against No. 10 Michigan. 
Both Notre Dame (13-8-3, 8-5-3-0 CCHA) and the Wol­verines (14-8-4, 8-6-4-1 CCHA) competed in last season’s Fro­zen Four, but periods of in­
consistency have placed both teams a handful of points behind 

“We need to rebound 
conference 

pace-setters this weekend against No. 5 Ohio Michigan. What a State and weekend to rebound. It’s No. 8 West-a huge rivalry. Their fans ern Michigan will be going nuts and 
in the CCHA 

we have the White Out.” 
race. With Michigan sit-

Sean Lorenz 
ting just two 

senior defenseman 
points ahead 

of the Irish, senior defen­seman and captain Sean Lorenz em­phasized the importance of a good showing this weekend. 
“It’s a huge weekend to stay in the race,” Lorenz said. “The CCHA is definitely one of the best leagues in the country right now, and everybody’s do­ing well. Every game’s going to be a battle, and we can’t af­ford to lose games, so we need to come out strong.” 
Notre Dame enters the con­test on the heels of a pair of disappointing defeats to Western Michigan. The Irish dropped a pair of 3-2 and 3-1 decisions as the Broncos com-will be a fo­cus for Irish coach Jeff Ja ck son ’s squad going into the cru­cial Michi­gan series. Notre Dame 
outshot Western Michigan in both of last weekend’s contest s, but failed to keep pace on the scoreboard. 
Lorenz said effi­
ciency on the offensive end will be a top team goal this weekend. 
“We didn’t bury our chances against Western Michigan,” he said. “We had a lot of scoring chances, and we actually out-chanced them in both games, but we couldn’t put the puck in the net. We have to get back to scoring five-on-five goals.” 
The Irish will be without ju­nior center Riley Sheahan for Friday’s game due to a one-game suspension for an illegal hit delivered against Western Michigan on Jan. 13. Sheahan will be eligible to return Sat­urday. 
Seemingly always one of the top teams in the conference, as well as the country, Michi­gan enters the game com­ing off a sweep of conference leader Ohio State. The play of senior goalie Shawn Hun-wick, who brings a 0.50 goals against average, leads a dan­gerous Michigan squad hitting the final stretch of the season. 
“Michigan is coming in hot. They’re one of the hot­test teams in our league right now,” Lorenz said. “Watching film of them, they’re also skat­ing well now, and that’s going to be a big point of emphasis this week, heading into the weekend. We’re going to make sure we try and skate with them.” 
The atmosphere at the Compton Family Ice Arena will also be noteworthy in the first and only regular-season matchup between the two teams this season. Friday night marks the first install­ment of the “White Out” pro­motion taking place in the new arena. 
Lorenz said the team is 
aware  of  the  potential  for  
heightened  intensity  in  the  
building.  

“We need to rebound this weekend against Michigan,” Lorenz said. “What a weekend to rebound. It’s a huge rivalry. Their fans will be going nuts and we have the White Out.” 
The puck will drop at 7:35 
p.m. on both Friday and Sat­urday nights. NBC Sports Net­work will broadcast Friday’s game nationally, while CBS Sports Network will broadcast Saturday’s match-up. 

Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
pleted the first series sweep of the Irish since February 2010. 
Despite the losses, Lorenz downplayed concern and said the losses have refocused the team in practice. 
“[Western Michigan is] a good team; they’re going to end up in the [NCAA] tour­nament. We can play better hockey and we know it,” he said. “You’ve got to feel com­fortable going into this week­end and know that we can do well.” 
An improvement in shooting 

Friday, January 20, 2012 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



A brand new barn 
Compton Family Ice Arena becomes most recent addition to campus thanks to generosity of donors 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Open the door. 
Open the door to new tradi­tion, coupled with a storied his­tory. Open the door to a majestic stairway accented by brick, blue and gold. Open the door to two rinks, two Frozen Four banners and 5,022 seats. 
Whatever you do, please just open the door to the newly opened Compton Family Ice Arena. 
The new $50 million home of the Irish hockey team was made possible by a generous lead do­nation of $15 million from Kevin and Gayla Compton, whose son Cameron graduated from Notre Dame in 2010. 
“Our family has been involved in the community for some time and hockey is a love of ours per­sonally,” Gayla Compton said. “More than anything, we were actually interested in the stu­dents having a place to be, the community having a place to gather and making it a good ex­perience for everyone.” 
Compton said the idea origi­nated in 2007, when Cameron, then a sophomore, told the fam­ily about waiting outside in the cold for hockey tickets, often times not able to get in. Comp­ton cited an apparent student passion and love for the sport as motivation for the donation. 
Despite the idea’s emergence in 2007, the Compton family had to wait four more years to see its dream come to fruition. Gay­la said she first stepped into the new, finished arena in October. 
“I walked in and I couldn’t move for a while,” she said. “I just stood there, I’m sure with my mouth open. It was better than I could have imagined, than I could have planned. All the pieces had come together so well. We’re so happy to be a part of that. It was beyond what we thought it would be, and we thought a lot.” 
The exterior of the building is imposing yet graceful, comple­menting the other structures on campus with its Gothic brick design. 
“I got misty [when I walked inside],” Gayla said. “Outside, it looks like it’s been there for­ever. I’m so pleased with the architects and how they man­aged to fit it in with the rest of the university. I walked in and the lights and the warmth of the place were welcoming. It was very welcoming.” 
Multidimensional building 
While housing the No. 6 Irish hockey team appears to be the main purpose of the state-of­the-art building, the facility does so much more. The arena also hosts the figure skating club, the women’s hockey club team, public skates, intramural broomball and hockey games, junior hockey tournaments and various community events. 
“You’ve got four teams play­ing hockey and four teams wait­ing to go on for the next games. You’ve got recreational skat­ing. You’ve got people renting it for community parties,” Notre Dame Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick told The Observer in December. “So it’s not just that north dome of the Joyce Cen­it’s a great home for our hockey ter, a building shared by vari­program and a great place to go ous other teams and a cramped and cheer for them, it’s that it’s space for a top-tier hockey pro-getting the sort of community gram. use that we envisioned for it.” The new building, however, 



Compton said a welcoming still has a few relics from the environment was a must for the Joyce Center. Lining the wall arena. overlooking the Olympic-sized 
“Our family believes very rink are award plaques from strongly in it being a place the tiny hallway outside the where one feels welcome,” locker room in their old home. Compton said. “It has to be ef-Gayla said an old bench from ficient. It has to be clean. It has the Joyce Center was carried to be neat. It has to be open. over and given a facelift with a Those things are important. fresh coat of paint. Our vision was a place where students, hockey players, ama-Electric atmosphere teurs, beginners — everyone Since the move to the Comp­
— can be a part of a gathering ton Family Ice Arena in October place.” of last year, the Irish are 7-3 in 
The Compton family, which their new home, including wins also owns the NHL’s San Jose over No. 3 Boston University, Sharks, was very involved in No. 4 Boston College and No. 8 the design process. Notre Dame Western Michigan. 
sent  a  design  The  3-2  
team  to  San  overtime  win  
Jose to use the HP Pavil­ion as a mod­el for what the Compton Family Ice Arena could look like. Gayla said the idea was not to copy from the es­t a b l i s h e d arena, but to grow from it.  “Our family believes very strongly in it being a place where one feels welcome. It has to be efficient. It has to be clean. It has to be neat. It has to be open. Those things are important. Our vision was a place where students, hockey players, amateurs, beginners — everyone — can be part of a gathering place.”  over Boston College on Nov. 18, how­ever, stands out from the rest. In the facility’s offi­cial dedication game, sopho­more right wing Bryan Rust scored the winning goal with just 1.1 seconds  
“[Having an arena already] had a huge ef- Gayla Compton Donor  remaining in overtime. The C o mp t o n s ,  
fect,  being  along  with  
able to start  other  donors,  

with a few ideas and know how were in attendance to witness they can work better definitely Rust’s game-winner. gave us insight,” she said. “We “It was over the top,” Gayla were able to say, ‘This works said of the game. “I couldn’t well for us,’ or, ‘This could be have had scripted it better. It improved for us.’” was crazy. It was wonderful.” 
She said the design of hockey The win also marked one of specific items, such as Zam-four sellouts this year at the boni entrances, were aided by Compton Family Ice Arena. Irish the knowledge that comes from coach Jeff Jackson was pleased owning an NHL franchise. not only with the result, but also 
While the Sharks enjoy the with the crowd’s support. luxury of having an arena to “Tonight was everything we call their own, Notre Dame did hoped this building would be,” not. The Irish used to play in the Jackson said after the game. 
“I thought I saw it [in the inau­gural game] against RPI. It re­minded me of [Michigan’s] Yost Arena, which is something I’ve always aspired to have, that kind of environment in a college hockey game.” 
The game served as the per­fect backdrop for “Onward to Victory: Notre Dame Hockey,” a documentary that aired on the new NBC Sports Network on Dec. 31. The movie chronicled Notre Dame’s move from the Joyce Center to Compton Fam­ily Ice Arena and the dedication game from a behind-the-scenes angle seen by few. 
Notre Dame hockey’s partner­ship with NBC, however, is not over. Along with Notre Dame’s move to Hockey East in 2013, a new television deal with the network was put into place that could include the airing all Irish home games. The Compton Family Ice Arena has proved to be a television-friendly venue that played a vital role in the deal. 
While the main rink has now housed the top seven crowds in Notre Dame hockey history, the auxiliary Olympic-sized rink downstairs serves as a vital preparation tool for the Irish. Jackson has called the practice rink a bonus when preparing for road games at arenas with wider sheets. 
Gayla said that her favorite part of the arena right now is the ground floor, an area that holds both the pro shop and the Olympic-sized rink. 
“I love seeing the figure skat­ers. I love seeing the kids. It just knocks my socks off,” Compton said. “That is probably my fa­vorite spot knowing that anyone can come in and take advan­tage.” 
She added that while the are­na has exceeded the family’s lofty expectations for now, she is not opposed to future addi­tions to the building. 
So open the door. Even if it has already been opened for you. 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 20, 2012 




Former coach ‘Lefty’ Smith passes away, leaves legacy 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
When No. 6 Notre Dame takes the ice against No. 10 Michigan this weekend, it will be just another step for a team that has become a powerhouse in college hockey. The program has now seen a pair of regular-season CCHA championships and Frozen Four appearances, sent dozens of alumni to the NHL and recently unveiled a new arena, a move to Hockey East and an expanded televi­sion deal. 
But while the Irish continue to move towards the future, the entire Notre Dame commu­nity mourns the loss of Charles ‘Lefty’ Smith, the man who took the program’s first step over 40 years ago. 
Notre Dame hockey began in earnest with Smith, who in 1968 coached Notre Dame’s first varsity hockey team. He guided and built up the pro­gram through its first 19 sea­sons, amassing 307 wins. After his retirement from coaching in 1987, he continued to work steadfastly for the University as the facilities manager at the Loftus Sports Center. Earlier this month, Smith retired from his post after 44 years in the athletic department, making him its longest tenured employ­ee. Three days later, at the age of 81, he died at home of natu­ral causes. 
For those at Notre Dame who knew Smith, his impact on the University over six decades is difficult to quantify. 
“It is difficult to imagine Notre Dame without Charles ‘Lefty’ Smith,” Notre Dame Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick said in a statement after Smith’s passing. “From the time I at­tended my first hockey game as a freshman to the time I spent with him at his retirement par­ty a few weeks ago, Lefty had been a prominent, colorful and impactful fixture at our Uni­versity. Lefty’s legacy will be measured not so much in the program he built or the games he won, but rather the thou­sands of lives he touched as a coach, teacher, administrator, father and husband.” 
And while Smith’s death sent waves throughout the entire Notre Dame family, his loss was felt especially hard in the locker room of the team he gave life to. 
“We wouldn’t be who we are or have what we have if it wasn’t for Lefty. He started the program and gave it life, and was a great ambassador for the University and for col­lege hockey,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “There’s so many great coaches in the early era … guys that really started col­lege hockey, and Lefty was a big part of that.” 
As one of the founding fa­thers of modern college hockey, Smith’s legacy was honored across the tight-knit hockey community. Legendary an­nouncer Doc Emrick paid hom­age to Lefty during an NHL broadcast on NBC, and condo­lences poured in from coaches, players and fans alike. 
Perhaps the most special tribute to Smith came when the Irish travelled to Minnesota just a few days after Smith’s passing. Jackson said that Lefty had always had an open invita­tion to travel with the team, and Smith had planned to make the Minnesota game his first trip. Over 10,000 Gopher fans packed into Mariucci Arena for the highly anticipated top-five matchup, but before the puck dropped, the arena halted and observed a moment of silence for the late Notre Dame coach. 
Playing an inspired brand of hockey, the Irish came out strong and grabbed an early 4-1 lead. Minnesota mounted a late charge, but Notre Dame held on to win one for Lefty, 4-3. 
“Coach Jackson talked to us pregame, and I think it was in the back of guy’s minds that this was a game we wanted to win for Lefty,” Irish senior for­ward and captain Billy Maday said. “He left a great legacy, and we wanted to do him right.” 
And as Smith was such a force behind the bench in the Joyce Center, it is fitting that he will forever be a part of the new Compton Family Ice Arena. When the Irish play the Wol­verines this weekend, the game will take place on the Lefty Smith Rink. 

Smith was able to partici­pate in the facility’s dedication in November, and Smith’s role in the mission and history of Notre Dame was not lost on the Compton family. 
“He was the pinnacle of not just Notre Dame hockey, but of Notre Dame,” Gayla Compton said. “He was loved. It’s one thing to love a university, but to have the same university love him back with such intensity and such sincerity [is incred­ible].” 
So Notre Dame will move forward as a program, start­ing with this weekend’s series against its archrival. Playoffs and championships will come again, and the team will con­tinue to play, even without their old coach watching from his usual perch in the press box. But as long as the Irish take to the rink named after their pro­gram’s patriarch, his presence will still be felt. 
“Lefty’s always going to be with us,” Jackson said. “He left a mark on a lot of people’s lives. As long as we’re in this arena, and we wear the Notre Dame jerseys and the golden helmets, he’s always going to be there.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 




