
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Faculty Senate passes LGBTQ resolution 
By SAM STRYKER Faculty Senate chair Morten to be strong support among Senate, but he speculated a GSA would be nice to see some of News Editor Eskildsen said the group de-Notre Dame faculty for advanc-and the non-discrimination those questions addressed by 
cided to address the two resolu-ing LGBTQ rights on campus. clause were the topic of “many for instance legal counsel or of-
In a push for improved inclu-tions due to outside support of “The documents brought for-conversations” amongst faculty. fices of the University,” he said. sion of lesbian, gay, bisexual, the measures. ward show really that this was “I’m sure a lot of people have “While we passed those resolu­transgender and questioning “We have received from a the right thing to do. Overall, discussed this across campus,” tions, I would also say there is (LGBTQ) members of the Notre number of sides emails encour-people felt that gays and lesbians he said. “It’s just my impression.” a sentiment to look further into Dame community, the Faculty aging us to look into this issue who were feeling sort of left out Eskildsen said a number of this issue.” Senate passed two resolutions and the Senate Executive Com-or marginalized, there was a de-questions regarding the reso-Student body president Pat Tuesday, one supporting a gay-mittee agreed this is something sire to try and improve their sit-lutions, including legal issues, McCormick said he appreciates straight alliance and the other we would want to look at and uation,” he said. “That was the arose during the debate of the the efforts of the Faculty Senate proposing adding sexual orien-discuss,” he said. “And we did.” main sentiment of those arguing resolutions. As such, he said he to pass the resolutions at Tues­tation to the University’s non-During Tuesday’s meeting, Es-in favor of the resolutions.” expects discussion to contin-day’s meeting. discrimination clause. kildsen said there was a “clear Eskildsen said this was the ue through the next academic “We’re grateful to the faculty 
Student Senate passed similar majority” in favor of passing the first time the issues were for-school year. resolutions earlier this semester. resolutions. He said there seems mally discussed within Faculty “I think the Senate felt it see FACULTY/page 5 
Students look forward to traveling over spring break 
ND students to escape school stress, relax during week off 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
After a hectic midterms week filled with study sessions, late nights and too much caffeine, most Notre Dame students are eagerly looking forward to spring break. 
Senior Christopher Stare said he will spend his spring break on a five-day cruise in the Bahamas, where he hopes to relax and forget about the concerns of school life. 
“I’m looking forward to get­ting away from the stressors of everyday life and getting back to the things that really matter: fun, 


see BREAK/page 5 




Students to leave SMC for trips in U.S., Europe 
By SARAH SWIDERSKI 
News Writer 
As Saint Mary’s students wrap up a week full of tests, quizzes and paper, they also prepare to head off campus for spring break to locations across the country and world. 
Junior Mariah Niedbalski will head to the sunny south­west in Albuquerque, N.M. to be reunited with her older sis­ter. 
“We’re going camping. I’m really excited, but I am afraid of bears, so I am also ner­vous,” Niedbalski said. “We 

see SPRING/page 4 



Super Tuesday results help Romney campaign 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
In the wake of the Super Tues­day presidential primaries and caucuses, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney’s close Ohio Re­publican primary win saved him from potential “disaster,” former political columnist for the South Bend Tribune and journalism professor Jack Colwell said. 
“Ohio, of course, was the big prize, and early on it looked as though [former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick] Santorum had a real shot at winning,” Colwell said. “If he had won, it could have been a disaster for Romney … because everyone would talk about how he could go on to be the Repub­lican presidential nominee if he’s supposed to be the frontrunner and can’t wrap up the nomina­tion.” 
Romney ultimately won the tight primary with 38 percent of the popular vote to Santorum’s 37 percent, earning Romney 35 of his leading 429 total Republi­can delegates, according to CNN. com election results. 
“[Romney’s win] turned the whole thing around. It only mat­ters whether you win or lose, not the margin, so that made it 

see SUPER/page 5 




Grab ‘n Go undergoes reform 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Seven points will go a lot further at Grab ‘n Go after spring break when addition­al items become available at both the North Dining Hall and South Dining Hall loca­tions. 
Sophomore Nimmy Thom­as, a member of student gov­ernment’s Constituent Ser­vices Committee, said after spring break, Grab ‘n Go op­tions will be standardized at North Dining Hall and South Dining Hall locations. 
“Currently there is a dis­crepancy in the type of food served at both the North 


see GRAB ‘N GO/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ND holds Circus Lunch page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Things to do in South Bend over spring break page 10 u Men’s hockey plays Michigan page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS SOMETHING THAT REALLY ANNOYS YOU? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sara Felsenstein Matthew DeFranks Tori Roeck Katie Heit Dan Brombach Vicky Jacobsen Graphics Scene Elisa DeCastro Alexandra Kilpatrick Photo Viewpoint Mackenzie Sain Caroline Lang  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 47 LOW 40 


Elizabeth Owers  Maggie Walsh  Mary Clare Rigali  Nicholas Schilling  Patrick Riordon  Steven Feczko  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Walsh  Walsh  Farley  Keough  O’Neill  O’Neill  
“People who  “People who  “People  “SAO.”  “When peoples’  “Couples who sit  
don’t know  hate on  who haven’t  responses to the  on the same side  
the difference  wanksters.”  registered for  question of the  of the table.”  
between it’s and  the Holy Half.”  day suck.”  
its.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Pig found running around in hotel lobby 
HONOLULU — Guests at a hotel near Honolulu’s air­port found a suckling pig in the lobby, but it wasn’t on the menu of the luau. 
The Hawaiian Humane Society was called to the hotel last week, when an in­jured 5-week-old female pig was found running around the lobby. It was unclear how the piglet ended up there. 
Humane society spokes­woman Tasha Tanimoto says the pig has been named Pukalani and will be avail­able for adoption once she’s a little older. Tanimoto says the piglet is being bottle-fed by a volunteer. 
Humane society officials aren’t sure of the pig’s breed, but a veterinarian suspects she will grow to be quite large. 
Pukalani has been getting attention on the humane society’s Facebook page, where a duck is also adver­tised for adoption. 
Officer probed for moving mattresses with patrol car 
MIAMI — A veteran Mi­ami police officer caught using her patrol car to haul mattresses has been relieved of duty with pay while the department inves­tigates. 
Several Miami television stations aired viewers’ vid­eo or photos of the marked patrol car with mattresses fastened to the top on Mon­day. 
Officer Sandra Lyles’ ve­hicle, gun and badge have been taken. The 32-year veteran of the Miami-Dade Police Department is set to retire Monday, but a police spokeswoman said the in­vestigation wouldn’t affect her retirement. 
Major Nancy Perez, the department spokeswoman, says Lyles violated depart­ment policy and embar­rassed herself. 
Personnel records show that Lyles has received mer­it increases since she was hired in 1980, but she’s also been disciplined more than a dozen times. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Elton Skendaj will give a lecture titled, “Trade-offs between State Building and Democracy Building: The Influence of International Actors on Peacebuilding in Kosovo,” at 12:30 p.m. today  in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center for Inter­national Studies. 
The Black Student As­sociation is sponsoring a March Madness Basketball Arcade at 5 p.m. today in the Sorin Room of the La-Fortune Student Center. The top 16 scorers will earn the opportunity to play at the end of March for cash prizes. 
There will be a screening of the film, “Margaret,” at 7 
p.m. tonight in the DeBarto­lo Performing Arts Center. Directed by Kenneth Loner­gan, the film follows a Man­hattan teenager as her life slowly unravels after she witnesses a bus accident. 
Laura Mulvey will give a lecture titled, “Hitch­cock’s Blondes, Feminism and Psychoanalytic Film Theory,” at 7 p.m. tonight in the Eck Visitors’ Cen­ter Auditorium. In this lecture, Mulvey will bring together Freud and Hitch­cock in order to discuss the importance of the iconic “Hitchcock blonde” for the development of feminist psychoanalytic film theory. 
There will be a joint Keenan and Stanford Mass at 10 p.m. tonight in Keen­an  as part of the Howard Hall Chapel Crawl. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 










HIGH 38 LOW 27 
HIGH 52 LOW 38 

HIGH 49 LOW 44 
HIGH 61 LOW 49 



SENATE 



Group appoints new officers 
NDFS, student gov. to host Circus Lunch 

By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Student Senate approved six students for positions on Student Union Board (SUB) and one stu­dent for a position on Judicial Council at its meeting Wednes­day. 
The group also made the po­sition of student body athletics representative official and dis­cussed the proposed renovations to the first floor of the Hesburgh Library. 
Freshman Andrea Romeros will serve as director of finance for SUB. Sophomore Sarah Lat­tal will be the director of opera­tions. Sophomore Brittany Back-strand will be the art director. 
Juniors Joe Caparros, Jamie Murray and Bradley Schroeder will be the co-directors of pro­gramming. 
Junior Michael Thomas will serve as president of Judicial Council. Appointed students will assume their positions on April 1. 

Jessica Kayongo, associate li­brarian for Hesburgh Libraries, discussed plans to renovate the first floor study area. 
“By graduation we hope to transform the space into some­thing that will attract people to the library — students, faculty, donors,” she said. 
Kayongo said the room will have a gray and green color scheme. She said it will feature writable surfaces, group seating and a video wall of 56-inch tele­vision monitors. 
“Most of the time we’re proba­bly going to have a non-distract­ing display on [the monitors], but we want the option for it to be interactive,” Kayongo said. “We could bring in people to do lectures, do visualization, what­ever we think.” 
The room will have a sec­tion of comfortable seating and another section of traditional, wooden tables for studying, Kay­ongo said. She said there will also be booth seating, bean bag chairs and a flat-panel television without sound that can stream news or sports. 
“The whole concept of the whole room is that we’re experi­menting with all the different things that the library could be,” she said. 
Kayongo said the library staff plans to replace the current light bulbs in the first-floor study area with more efficient ones and will purchase energy-saving televi­sion screens. She also said the library plans to eventually be open 24 hours a day. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 



By LEILA GREEN 
News Writer 
Today, Notre Dame Food Ser­vices and student government will bring back the “Circus Lunch,” a famed dining hall special event of the 1980s and 1990s. 
During lunch in both North Dining Hall and South Dining Hall, students will find various circus-themed food and deco­rations. 
The event was coordinated by the Circus Lunch Commit­tee of student government’s Department of Constituent Services. 
Sophomore Mary Toma­sik, head of the Circus Lunch Committee, and sophomore Heather Eaton, director of Constituent Services, helped coordinate the event. 
“We thought it would be a fun event for students, espe­cially during midterms,” Eaton said. “I love cotton candy just as much as the next person.” 
Constituent Services went forward with the idea to hold a circus lunch after an ad­ministrator from the Student Activities Office (SAO) helped convince them to bring back the traditional event. 
Basic circus foods like hot dogs, cotton candy, cracker jacks and popcorn will be served in both dining halls. North Dining Hall will also have snow cones and elephant ears. 
The Circus Lunch was one of the most popular dining hall special events of the 1980s and 1990s, Eaton said, because back then the dining hall did not serve the large variety of food that it does today. 
“Circus lunch was a way to give variety,” she said. 
When the dining halls add­ed more foods to the menu in subsequent years, the circus lunch was no longer necessary and occurred less often, she said. 
The circus lunch will not in­terfere with the regular lunch menu and will last for the reg­ular lunch period — 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
The Circus Lunch Committee decorated both dining halls Wednesday night. Along with food, there will also be balloon animals, face paint and cir-cus-themed temporary tattoos. Lollipops will be provided next to the mints at the exits. 
Eaton said the Circus Lunch Committee met with dining hall managers and they agreed to assist with the event. If the feedback is positive, Eaton said student government hopes to hold more circus lunches in the future. 
“We’ve put in the work to make sure that it could be a yearly event,” she said. 
Contact Leila Green at lgreen2@nd.edu 
SGA 



Association continues to hold board elections 
By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Govern­ment Association (SGA) will con­tinue holding elections today. 
The Saint Mary’s student body will be participating in elections for the Class Boards, Student Diversity Board (SDB), Student Activities Board (SAB) and Resi­dence Hall Association (RHA). 
Student Body president Nicole Gans said last week’s election was successful since student participation nearly doubled from previous elections. 
“There was a big impact to students and faculty,” she said. “We should feel really proud of ourselves.” 
One of SGA’s goals this year, student body vice president Jackie Zupancic said, has been to bring about more participa­tion in elections. She said using emails and stationing booths around different parts of cam­pus to promote elections was ef­fective. 
SGA faced a challenge this week, however, when the Saint Mary’s email system Zimbra went down. Since Zimbra is still not working at full capacity this week, SGA had to decide on an alternative way of holding stu­dent elections. 
Typically, students are sent a link in their email accounts al­lowing them to vote online to make the calculation process significantly easier. 
SGA had two alternative op­tions to choose from — initiating a paper ballot vote for the elec­tion or postponing elections for two weeks. 
Student Diversity Board presi­dent Kelly Reidenbach said she believed using paper ballots was the better choice. 
“Do the paper ballots tomor­row, because there is a lot go­ing on when we come back from break,” she said Wednesday. “Many people are going to be busy.” 
Various members of SGA ex­pressed their concerns and sug­gestions, but SGA ultimately decided it would be in the best interest of the candidates and the student body if a paper ballot was taken today. 
SGA spent a majority of the meeting working out the logistics of the paper ballot, particularly how they would be able to keep track of students who have voted. 
The voting booth will be locat­ed in the atrium of the Student Center. Elections will begin to­day at 9 a.m. and close at 8 p.m. 
There will be paper ballots for each class and each ballot will also contain the name of candi­dates running for SAB, SDB and RHA. 
“If anyone votes for more than one class president, their vote will be nullified,” Gans said. “We have to have the same enthusi­asm we had for last weeks elec­tion.” 

Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 





DormDrinks to start delivering to SMC 

By CAILIN CROWE 
News Writer 
DormDrinks, a company founded and staffed by Notre Dame students, has officially expanded their services to Saint Mary’s College. 
DormDrinks sells food and beverages and delivers to stu­dents on campus, according to its website. 
Co-owner and senior Chase Kelly said DormDrinks has been a popular choice for Notre Dame students for the past five 

years because “We make things can set up a of its conve-convenient and keep personal ac­nience and you from spending count with low prices. DormDrinks. 
a lot of money.” 
Co -owner “Either your and senior parents can 
Chase Kelly 
Norbert Mc-make an or-Mahon said co-owner der directly DormDrinks DormDrinks for you or they 
helps students who do not have cars by delivering products straight to their doors. 
“One of the primary reasons that DormDrinks was founded is because a lot of students don’t have of cars and can’t pick up food or drinks at their own con­venience,” he said. 
Unlike on-campus conve­nience stores, DormDrinks pro­vides items in bulk at discount­ed prices, McMahon said. 
“Although you can buy food and drinks from Notre Dame’s Huddle or Saint Mary’s Cy­
ber  Café,  the  prices  there  
are  dramatically  inflated  
and  expensive,”  he  said.  

“We make things convenient and keep you from spending a lot of money.” 



Spring 
continued from page 1 
are also going to see a Goya exhibit. Being an Art History major, [that] makes me really excited.” 
Although many students 
are headed to warmer destinations to escape the dreary Indi­ana weather, some have less typical plans. 
Junior Cait­lyn Paulsen is staying in the United States to spend time 
with her boyfriend, who lives in Ireland, but will visit over break. 
“My boyfriend that I met in Ireland is from Spain [and he] 
ing,” Paulsen said. 
The couple will visit Chi­cago, Boston and Newport, R.I., where Paulsen has family. 
“I haven’t seen [him] in five months,” 
she said. “He’s going to meet my family for the first time.” 
While Paulsen’s boyfriend is arriving from Europe, juniors Erin Coen and Katie Schul­theis are headed there. 
DormDrink’s primary distrib­utor is Sam’s Club, Kelly said. 
“We have a good relationship with them because we’ve been working them from the start five years ago,” he said. 
Not only does DormDrinks help quench students’ thirst and hunger, it also gives students job opportunities. 
DormDrinks services should be well-received by Saint Mary’s students because about 70 per­cent of their current customers are female, McMahon said. 
McM ahon 
said students 
can put money 
on your dorm drink account and use those dollars to buy whatever you chose,” he said. 
As a special promotion, Dor­mDrinks is offering Saint Mary’s students a 25 percent discount off all Nestle Pure Life Water, Kelly said. 
DormDrinks has also added new items to their list of pro­vided items including workout supplements, cups, pitchers, batteries, cleaning and laundry supplies, McMahon said. 
“This semester we have ex­panded our services to try and include everything you might need in the dorms,” he said. 

Contact Cailin Crowe at ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 
“We studied abroad [in Ire­land] spring semester of our sophomore year and are going back to visit friends,” Coen said. 
Coen and Schultheis said they loved Europe so much that they are headed back there for a full week. The two Saint Mary’s juniors said they 

“[We have] no plans but to hang out with [Irish] friends. I wouldn’t mind being stuck in Ireland. I wouldn’t be too torn up about it.” 
Katie Schultheis junior 
plan to visit Dublin and May nooth, places where they studied. 
“[We have] no plans but to hang out with [Irish] f r iend s,” Schul­theis said. “I wouldn’t mind being 



Students to travel to South Africa 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 

One group of graphic design students will spend spring break helping South African refugees understand their rights through the “together +” anti-xenophobia campaign. 
Seven Notre Dame graphic and industrial design students will travel to South Africa over break. The educational and pro­motional campaign is supported by Notre Dame’s Center for So­cial Concerns, the Kellogg In­stitute for International Studies and CUSE. 
Junior Lynn Yeom said what started out as a project in her graphic design class took on much greater meaning — be­coming a project to combat dis­crimination and violence against refugees. 
“We are trying to solve [a problem] in a graphic design way … an educational way,” she said. 
Yeom said there is great ten­sion between the black South Af­rican community and refugees coming from other countries in Africa. 
“[Black] South Africans are blaming refugees, saying they are taking all the jobs and that [black South Africans] are not living better because of the refu­gees,” she said. 
To try and help ease this ten­sion, students will use design as a means of promoting diversity, creating a variety of materials from informational booklets for refugees to a children’s book, Yeom said. 
Senior Kassandra Randazzo’s group is working on educating the refugees about healthcare. 
“Many refugees are not fully aware that the country guar­antees them the same rights as native South Africans to fair and equal care,” she said. “We’ve designed materials that explic­itly state what they are entitled to and have translated it into a variety of languages to ensure that the message reaches its au­dience.” 
Design professor Robert Sed­lack and alumna Andrea Pel­legrino visited Johannesburg, South Africa in October and began a relationship with the Kgosi Neighborhood Founda­tion, (KNF) which seeks to bring educational light into the lives of vulnerable children. 
The pair traveled to South Af­rica to conduct preliminary re­search and identify challenges faced by refugees that could be addressed by Notre Dame graphic and industrial design students. 
The group of graphic design students will be working on four different projects with the KNF. 
Yeom’s group is working on creating a booklet for refugees. 
“Newcomers [to South Afri­ca] can get it,” Yeom said. “The booklet talks about shelters, places to go for help and how to get identification and housing documents.” 
Other groups are creating a children’s book to help the younger generation learn that refugees are not much different than they are, Yeom said. 
Each of the student groups will visit specific areas in South Africa to help them better under­stand the audiences they are try­ing to reach with their designs. 
“We are traveling to Johan­nesburg and … around the Pre­toria region so we can identify the way the refugees go about getting identification docu­ments,” Yeom said. 
Randazzo said she and her group will visit hospitals, such as the Baragwanath Hospital in the Soweto area of Johannes­burg, to learn more about how refugees deal with healthcare. 
While the students are work­ing on separate projects in their respective groups, toward the end of the week they will all come together to paint a mural. 
“We will bring the community together and paint a mural that indicates harmony and together­ness,” Yeom said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
stuck in Ireland. I wouldn’t be too torn up about it.” 
Schultheis said she is most looking forward to “just be­ing back and seeing everyone 

is coming to visit me and we again.” are going to do some travel-Many other 
“I’m really looking forward to seeing my dog and my family.” 
Colette Curtis sophomore 
 students this break will choose to go home for the week. Sopho­more Colette Curtis will return to her home in Mar­shall, Mich. 
“I’m really looking for­ward to see­
ing my dog and my family,” Curtis said, “I miss my fam­ily.” 

Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 



Break 
continued from page 1 
friends and more fun,” Stare said. 
Other students, such as sopho­more Marissa Bulso, will travel across the pond to Europe. Bulso is taking a trip with her college seminar class to Chartres, France, where the group will study and create a presentation on the Char­tres Cathedral. 
“Chartres Cathedral is one of my favorite examples of Gothic ar­chitecture,” Bulso said.  “Having the chance to study it and then see it in person is an amazing oppor­tunity ¾ exactly the kind of oppor­tunity you associate with studying at this University.” 
Sophomore Katie Carter will escape South Bend for a week of Florida sunshine.  Carter said she is road-tripping with her room­mates to Santa Rosa Beach. 
She said the vacation will be worth the long commute. 
“Even though the drive is sure to be extremely long, I’m really excited for a week of warm relax­ation, especially after this busy week of midterms,” she said. 
Sophomore Benjamin Redgrave has more unconventional plans for his spring vacation. 
He will first road trip to New York and Maryland with six of his close friends, and then will spend the rest of break on a college semi­nar class field trip to Twin Oaks, a utopian community in Virginia. 

Faculty 
continued from page 1 
for their support of this effort to create a group for both gay and straight students to come together for mutual support and service to the broader commu­nity,” he said. 
McCormick said members of student government anticipate working with Faculty Senate and others in the Notre Dame community to further the prog­ress achieved this semester. 
“We look forward to partner­ing in whatever way we can with faculty and members of the ad­ministration and of course stu­dent advocates to continue to explore ways we might be able to further expand inclusion in the Notre Dame community,” he said. 
University spokesman Dennis 
“While the long drive with friends is sure to be fun, I’m really looking forward to sight-seeing in New York and visiting an actual utopian community,” Redgrave said. 
Other students, such as sopho­more Ronnie Seman, will return home over break, using the time to reunite with friends and family. 
Seman said he is especially ex­cited to celebrate Saint Patrick’s Day with his friends at the Univer­sity of Pittsburgh. 
“I’m really looking forward to bringing the ‘Irish spirit’ to UPitt,” Seman said. 
Others plan to remain at Notre Dame over spring break. Junior Alex Bowman, who is remaining on campus, said he is optimistic about a week of warm weather. 
“The weather promises to be a balmy 45 most of the week, so maybe if I turn the radiator up high enough it’ll feel like I’m in Florida,” he said. 
Although excited to take time off, students leaving campus said they will miss aspects of their life at Notre Dame, even in just the brief week away. 
“I will, of course, miss my sev­eral close friends that I have made while here at Notre Dame,” Bulso said. “I will also miss seeing the Golden Dome.  I feel like Mary greets me everyday on the way to class, reminding me to keep ev­erything in perspective.” 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 
Brown declined comment on the resolutions until the parties in­volved present such material to Notre Dame 
“We are aware of the Faculty and Student Senate resolutions, but we’ll refrain from any spe­cific observations until we’ve had a chance to thoroughly re­view material forwarded to us by a group of concerned stu­dents,” he said. 
Brown said Notre Dame con­tinues to promote acceptance of LGBTQ students on campus. 
“We want to make it clear that, as articulated in the Spirit of In­clusion, we welcome and value all members of our community, we condemn discriminatory ha­rassment of any kind, and our policy explicitly precludes ha­rassment based on sexual orien­tation,” he said. 

Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 



Super 
continued from page 1 

a pretty good night for him,” Colwell said. “He ended up be­ing a big winner, getting more delegates from a big state. A few thousand votes changed things.” 
Though Romney’s victory in Ohio earned him a significant number of delegates to cushion his current lead, the win “didn’t clinch anything” due to Santo­rum’s primary wins in Oklaho­ma and Tennessee, Colwell said. 
Santorum gained additional momentum in leading the North Dakota caucuses with 40 per­cent of the vote, but Colwell said he faces a challenge in catching up to Romney. 
“[Santorum] picked up some delegates in North Dakota, but one of the problems for him now is that delegates are at stake in all these races,” Colwell said. “As of this afternoon, he had 169 delegates to Romney’s 429, but you need 1,144 delegates to win, so it’s not over yet.” 
Of the seven Super Tuesday primaries, Romney won in his home state of Massachusetts, Vermont, Ohio and Virginia, according to CNN.com results. Santorum took Oklahoma and 

Grab ‘n Go 
continued from page 1 

and South Dining Hall Grab ‘n Go’s,” Thomas said. 
South’s Grab ‘n Go will offer Pop Tarts, pita chips and hum­mus, Goldfish crackers and animal crackers, all of which were previously exclusive to North. 
North Dining Hall’s Grab ‘n Go will have granola bars, cereal bars and apple slices, which were only in the South location before, she said. 
Mark Poklinkowski, general manager of South Dining Hall, said its Grab ‘n Go began add­ing Pop Tarts, Goldfish and pita and hummus this week with much demand from students. 
“The hummus and chips … have been going like crazy,” he said. “We tried to warn our supplier on the Pop-Tarts that we were going to be needing a lot, and it looks like they’re already going to run us out by the end of this week.” 
Tennessee, and former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich cap­tured his home state of Georgia. 
Colwell said Santorum sup­porters might interpret Gin­grich’s Georgia victory as a lost opportunity. 
“Santorum’s people are trying to pressure Gingrich to drop out of the race because they think Santorum might have won if Gin­grich had not run in Georgia,” he said. “Romney is not popular in the South, and with Mississippi and Alabama [primaries] com­ing up, Gingrich could win one of those, taking away delegates Santorum would proba­bly have got-
The fourth candidate in the Republican presidential race, Texas congressman Ron Paul, is likely continuing his campaign to make a statement about his platform, Colwell said. 
“He has yet to win any prima­ry and has very few delegates, so nobody thinks he has a chance for the nomination,” he said. “I think he will stay in the race be­cause he wants to have a plat­form and express his ideas.” 
Although the May 8 Indiana presidential primary is nearly two months away, Colwell said its results could have an impact on the race for the Republi­can nomina­

ten without “Romney’s win turned tion. Gingrich.” the whole thing around.” “[The pri-Despit e mary] usually Gingrich’s means nothing 
Jack Colwell 
win in Geor-because it’s so 
professor 
gia, Colwell late,” he said. 
said his 118 delegates are not enough to consider him a legitimate candi­date. 
“Gingrich basically has no chance now … He hasn’t had the organization of other can­didates,” Colwell said. “He has a big ego, so he might want to stay in and not drop out because of that.” 
In addition to these changes, Thomas said gluten-free op­tions will be available to stu­dents who need them. 
“There will be Chewy bars and crispy rice, and those will be two Grab ‘n Go points,” Thomas said. “They have to be specially requested, and you have to have the marker on your ID that says you need a gluten-free diet.” 
Thomas said the Constitu­ent Services Committee chose to focus on Grab ‘n Go reform because of student feedback on Whine Wednesday surveys. 
“We asked students, ‘Would you like Grab ‘n Go reform to go through?’ and 66 percent of the student body who re­sponded stated that Grab ‘n’ Go needed to be changed,” she said. 
But Thomas said some of the changes students suggested were not feasible. 
“Some of the changes that we wanted to bring initially included having a hot meal served, but the idea of our Uni­versity is that communal meals “But four years ago, [Hillary] Clinton and 
[President Barack] Obama had a real battle in Indiana, so with Santorum on the ballot, he and Romney could still be going at it in a battle for the second time in a row.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
are preferred because they en­courage community-building,” Thomas said. “All those ideas were changed to fit the ideals of the University.” 
Students also requested a salad bar with more vegetar­ian options, but Thomas said the Grab ‘n Go facilities could not accommodate that. 
Once the Constituent Ser­vices Committee drafted a pro­posal for changes to Grab ‘n Go, Thomas said Food Services was open to the ideas present­ed. 
“Within about two weeks [after submitting the proposal to Food Services] they told us everything will be changed over spring break,” she said. “They were very receptive to our ideas.” 
Poklinkowski said Food Services easily agreed to the changes because students had requested them in the past. 
“It really made sense with what we’ve heard,” he said. 


Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 





Parties vie for female voters 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Is the 2012 election shaping up to be all about women? 
President Barack Obama is working hard to woo this pivotal constituency in his re-election race. His Democratic allies are even accusing the GOP of launch­ing a “war against women” after the Republicans reignited a new national debate over cultural is­sues, including birth control. 
But now the Republicans — including Ann Romney and Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski — are striking back with a prom­ise: Their party will win women by focusing on the real No. 1 is­sue, the economy. 
Not that Obama is ready to give up that issue. 

“I believe that the Democrats have a better story to tell to women about how we’re going to solidify the middle class and grow this economy, make sure everybody has a fair shot, every­body’s doing their fair share, and Eight months before Election we got a fair set of rules of the Day, women have become argu­road that everybody has to fol-ably the most sought-after voting low,” Obama said Tuesday as Re-group in an election year where publican presidential contenders the presidency and control of competed in Super Tuesday pri-Congress are at stake. Females maries. comprise a majority of voters in 
Hours later, Romney — the a typical presidential election wife of GOP front-runner Mitt year. Romney — answered him. Women are a crucial voting 
“Do you know what women group for Obama, particularly care about? Women care about in the suburbs of big cities like jobs,” she declared on national Denver and Detroit. He would television, as her husband wait-not be president today had he ed nearby to speak. “They’re not beaten Republican John Mc­angry, and they’re furious about Cain by 13 points among women the entitlement debt that we’re four years ago. The importance leaving for our children.” of winning the women’s vote 
“I’m right along with Ann may be magnified this year giv-Romney,” Murkowski said on en that the fragile economy may Wednesday. The Alaska Republi-weigh down the support of other can has been critical of her par-groups that supported Obama ty’s focus on birth control policy strongly in 2008, such as Latinos when people remain worried and college-age voters. about economic stability. In a Recent polling suggests telephone interview, Murkowski Obama is gaining among wom­added: “There is clearly a direc-en. An Associated Press-GfK poll tion that we can take as Repub-conducted last month showed licans that gives confidence and his approval rating had risen assurance that we are focused 10 percentage points among on the issues that matter to women since December. The women.” poll also showed that women ap-prove more strongly of the way the president is handling the economy. 

For Republicans, conservative women represent a loyal sector of the party’s base, and female independents offer an oppor­tunity to eat into Obama’s sup­port. Independent women broke for Obama by a 10-point margin four years ago, according to exit polling, while among indepen­dent men he managed just a 5-point edge. 
Both parties have viewed the furor over Obama’s policy on access to contraception as an opportunity to curry favor with women. Republicans protested Obama’s mandate that birth control be covered by insur­ance, even for employers whose faiths forbid contraception. The policy, Republicans insisted, was a violation of the Constitution’s guarantee of religious freedom, and they forced a vote on it in the Senate. The GOP measure to overturn Obama’s policy lost, 51-48, with one Republican, Sen. Olympia Snowe, helping Demo­crats kill it. 

Study finds employers need to increase hiring 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — U.S. com­panies will have to keep hiring steadily to meet their custom­ers’ rising demand. 
That’s the message that emerged from a report Wednesday that employers are finding it harder to squeeze more output from their exist­ing staff. It also helps explain why ADP, a payroll provider, estimated Wednesday that companies added 216,000 workers last month. 
Those findings reinforced confidence that 2012 will mark a turning point for the long-suffering job market and the economy. Applications for unemployment benefits have tumbled. Consumer confidence is at its highest point in a year. And the stock market has been on a tear since the year began. 
Feeding on themselves, those trends tend to fuel fur­ther economic growth. 
The brighter signs come two days before the government will issue the February em­ployment report. It’s expected to show a third straight month of strong hiring. 
Business executives are sensing the shift. A survey released Wednesday by Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business found that confidence among U.S. chief financial of­ficers has risen to its highest point in a year. As a result, the survey found that companies expect to increase hiring for full-time jobs by 2.1 percent over the next year, up from 1.5 percent in a survey in Decem­ber. 
“This rebound is encourag­ing because increases in chief financial officer optimism have historically preceded improve­ments in the overall economy,” said John Graham, a finance professor who directed the survey. 
The survey was released the same day that the government reported a paltry gain in work­er productivity at the end of last year. The 0.9 percent an­nualized increase was half the growth rate from the July-Sep­tember quarter. Similarly, for the year, U.S. worker produc­tivity grew at its slowest pace in nearly a quarter of century. 
Productivity measures out­put per hour of work. Slower productivity can squeeze cor­porate profits. But it can lead to more jobs if it shows that companies can’t derive more production from their work­ers. That often means they must hire to meet customer demand. 
After the recession, produc­tivity soared. After laying off staffers, companies managed to make their leaner staffs more efficient. Such produc­tivity growth tends to slow eventually. 
“The typical bounce in pro­ductivity that we usually see coming out of a recession has run its course,” said Troy Da­vig, an economist at Barclays Capital. “Firms will likely need to rely increasingly on adding to payrolls to increase their output, rather than squeeze existing resources.” 
Overworking employees can also dull creativity and lead to less innovation, said Mike FitzGibbon, co-founder of 3Cinteractive, which builds applications for smartphones. 
The company has 12 open positions and plans to add up to 60 jobs this year, on top of its work force of 120, FitzGib­bon said. It is analyzing the needs of specific departments to avoid overloading any sin­gle employees and determine where hiring is most needed. 
“The last thing we want to do is have a software devel­oper completely burned out,” he said. 



Taco Bell introduces Doritos taco at 800 restaurants 
Associated Press defend its filling and shore PepsiCo Inc.’s Frito-Lay snack 
up its image. The suit was unit, which makes Doritos. 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. — Taco dropped about three months “We’re doing what we really Bell hopes to turn orange after it was filed by an Ala-do best, which is first inno-Doritos cheese powder into bama-based law firm, but the vation.” green — as in cash from its chain’s sales have struggled. Taco Bell, which is based latest invention. The Doritos tacos are the in California, certainly 
The Mexican-style chain latest in a string of things could use a boost. Sales at plans to roll out Doritos Lo-Taco Bell has been doing stores open at least a year cos Tacos at midnight on to improve its menu — and — an indicator of a restau-Wednesday at its nearly 5,600 boost its image. The chain is rant chain’s health — were restaurants nationwide. The testing a Cantina Bell line of down 2 percent for the year fast-food chain, a unit of more upscale foods created and 2 percent for the fourth Yum Brands Inc., calls the by celebrity chef Lorena Gar-quarter. Taco Bell accounts tacos that use shells made cia. Taco Bell also recently for about 60 percent of U.S. out of Nacho Cheese Doritos rolled out a breakfast menu profit for Louisville-based the biggest product launch in in about 800 restaurants, Yum Brands, which also has its 50-year history. It plans with plans to roll out its struggled with slumping to introduce a Doritos Cool breakfast burritos and hash sales in the U.S., but posted Ranch taco shell this fall. browns nationwide by 2014. a 1 percent gain in revenue 
Taco Bell said it plans to The latest rollout comes from existing restaurants spend up to $75 million to after Taco Bell tested the ta-in the final three months of advertise the new tacos — cos a year in Bakersfield and 2011. about three times more than Fresno in California and To-Mark Kalinowski, an ana­it typically spends to promote ledo, Ohio. Taco Bell said one lyst at Janney Capital Mar-new menu rollouts. out of every three purchas-kets, predicts a turnaround 
The new tacos come as es at those stores included for Taco Bell in a recent note Taco Bell attempts to re-Doritos Locos Tacos — about to investors. “We believe will be “a rather big hit.” improve its product so that it bound from the bad public-twice the typical number of that the new product pipe-But Laura Ries, president stacks up against competitors ity generated by a lawsuit purchases of a test product. line combined with time that of Ries & Ries, a marketing like Chipotle Mexican Grill. a year ago that alleged the “It’s kind of like the brand has passed since the lawsuit strategy firm based in At-“Certainly people love Dori-meat filling served at its res-has its mojo back,” said Brian should set Taco Bell up for a lanta, said while a splashy tos, but putting them onto taurants didn’t have enough Niccol, Taco Bell’s chief mar-very strong year,” he wrote. product rollout can help con-a shell doesn’t necessar­beef to be called that. Taco keting and innovation officer He also was upbeat sumers forget about a pub-ily make it a more authentic Bell denounced the claim as who declined to give details Wednesday about prospects licity setback, Taco Bell has Mexican restaurant,” Ries false and spent millions to on the company’s deal with for the new taco, predicting it a bigger problem of how to said. 

U.S. dominates world cheese championships 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. — Watching 40 judges in white lab coats nibble on cheese and then spit the samples into garbage cans might not sound like the most elegant evening. But hundreds of cheese lovers have paid $25 each for a close-up view of Wednesday’s World Champion­ship Cheese Contest finals. 
This is the first year the in­ternational contest has charged admission to its finals, which historically have been low-key affairs, drawing just a handful of spectators and reporters. As a growing number of foodies try to outdo one another in their pursuit of local, sustainable, or­ganic and handcrafted fare, the artisan cheese competition has become a hot ticket for those looking to get their gouda on. 
The sold-out contest, held ev­ery two years in Madison, typi­cally draws more than 2,000 entries from nearly two-dozen nations. Usually, only the judges taste the cheese, but this year’s 400 ticketholders will be able to sample 15 of the top entries while they mingle with Wiscon­sin cheesemakers and the in­ternational panel of judges. 
“In the past, unless you were a super cheese geek, this is not something you went to,” said Jeanne Carpenter, executive director of Wisconsin Cheese Originals, an organization of artisan cheese fans. “But get­ting to try 15 different cheeses from 15 different countries, plus meeting the best of Wis­consin’s cheesemakers, people love that.” 

Experts compare specialty cheeses to wines: Both have subtle variations based on their region of origin, year of cre­ation and the techniques em­ployed by master craftsmen. 
Judging in cheese and wine contests is similar as well. Judges roll entries in their mouths, search for nuanced characteristics and then dis­card the samples. Some cheese judges wipe their tongues with napkins between tastings. 
One of the paid spectators was Steve Ceder, a painting contractor from Madison. 
“This is Wisconsin,” he said, as he nibbled on a few samples. “I enjoy cheese a lot, and to have a chance to try so many different cheeses is just such a wonderful experience.” 
The three-day contest began Monday, with judges grading 2,500 entries in 82 cheese and butter classes on flavor, tex­ture, body and color. The win­ner in each class advanced to the semifinals, where the top 16 were chosen for Wednesday night’s finals. 
As expected, cheesemakers from the U.S. and Switzerland came out strong. Seven finalists are from the U.S. 




Apple unveils new iPad model 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Apple gave the new iPad a bunch of new features but no new name. 
When it goes on sale next week in the U.S. and several other countries, it will be “the iPad” or perhaps “the new iPad” 
— not “iPad 3” or “iPad HD,” as some had speculated. 
The new iPad unveiled Wednesday comes with im­provements that may not be readily apparent to the casual observer. It has, as expected, a sharper screen, driven by a faster processing chip that acts as the “brains” of the device. What was more surprising was that the new features mean the tablet computer will be slightly thicker and heavier than the iPad 2, because it needs a larg­er battery to power the high-resolution screen. 
Prices aren’t changing from the previous models. They will start at $499. Versions capable of accessing cellular networks will cost $629 to $829. 
Apple is keeping the basic model of the iPad 2 in produc­tion and dropping the price to $399. That could help Apple re­gain some market share from cheaper tablets like Amazon. com Inc.’s $199 Kindle Fire. Samsung Electronics and other makers of full-size tablets have cut their prices to below $500. 
The battery life of the new model remains the same: about 10 hours of use. Apple says the battery capacity is 70 percent higher than for the old model, which suggests that it could have kept the old screen and extended the battery life to 17 hours instead of upgrading the screen resolution. 
Apple said the new display will be sharper than the aver­age high-definition television set. In a hands-on demonstra­tion for an Associated Press reporter, text shown on the screen was noticeably crisper. The higher resolution won’t make a difference, however, for most Web images, which are of low resolution. The new screen should be able to show all the detail in high-definition movies, which the iPad 2 does not. 
The new screen can also show deeper and more vibrant colors than previous models, Apple said. 
“We are taking it to a whole new level and are redefining the category that Apple creat­ed with the original iPad,” said Apple Inc. CEO Tim Cook at the launch event in San Francisco. 
Cook spoke of a “post-PC” era dominated by the iPad and other Apple products. 
The new iPad will go on sale March 16 in the U.S., Canada and 10 other countries. A week later, it will go on sale in 25 more countries. 
The lack of a new name could cause confusion for buyers, par-ticularly since the older model, the “iPad 2,” will still be sold. But the naming practice is con­sistent with Apple’s practices for the iPod. New models have been simply called “iPod.” Con­sumers are left to figure out which generation of the product they are looking for. 


Compared with the iPad 2, the new model features a high-er-resolution camera on the back, similar to the one in the iPhone 4S. 
The new iPad will be 9.4 mil­limeters thick, or 0.37 inches. That compares with 8.8 millime­ters, or 0.34 inches, for the iPad 
2. The weight is going up from 
1.33 pounds to 1.44 pounds for the Wi-Fi-only model. The origi­nal iPad weighed 1.5 pounds. 
Apple also confirmed that the new model will come in a version that can use Verizon Wireless’ and AT&T Inc.’s “LTE” wireless broadband networks. They offer speeds that are faster than the “3G” networks used by previous iPads, and current iPhones. 


Solar storm heads toward Earth 
Assiciated Press 
WASHINGTON — Earth’s magnetic field is about to be shaken like a snow globe by the largest solar storm in five years. 
After hurtling through space for a day and a half, a mas­sive cloud of charged particles is due to arrive early Thurs­day and could disrupt utility grids, airline flights, satellite networks and GPS services, especially in northern areas. But the same blast could also paint colorful auroras farther from the poles than normal. 
Scientists say the storm, which started with a massive solar flare earlier in the week, is growing as it races outward from the sun, expanding like a giant soap bubble. When it strikes early Thursday, the particles will be moving at 4 million mph. 
“It’s hitting us right in the nose,” said Joe Kunches, a sci­entist for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra­tion in Boulder, Colo. 
Astronomers say the sun has been relatively quiet for some time. And this storm, while strong, may seem fiercer be­cause Earth has been lulled by several years of weak solar activity. 
The storm is part of the sun’s normal 11-year cycle, which is supposed to reach peak storminess next year. So­lar storms don’t harm people, but they do disrupt technol­ogy. And during the last peak around 2002, experts learned that GPS was vulnerable to so­lar outbursts. 
Because new technology has flourished since then, scien­tists could discover that some new systems are also at risk, said Jeffrey Hughes, director of the Center for Integrated Space Weather Modeling at Boston University. 
A decade ago, this type of solar storm happened a couple of times a year, Hughes said. 
“This is a good-size event, but not the extreme type,” said Bill Murtagh, program coordi­nator for the federal govern­ment’s Space Weather Predic­tion Center. 
The sun erupted Tuesday evening, and the most notice­able effects should arrive here between 1 a.m. and 5 a.m. EST Thursday, according to fore­casters at the space weather center. The effects could lin­ger through Friday morning. 
The region of the sun that erupted can still send more blasts our way, Kunches said. He said another set of active sunspots is ready to aim at Earth right after this. 
“This is a big sun spot group, particularly nasty,” NASA so­lar physicist David Hathaway said. “Things are really twist­ed up and mixed up. It keeps flaring.” 
Storms like this start with sun spots, Hathaway said. 
Then comes an initial solar flare of subatomic particles that resemble a filament com­ing out of the sun. That part already hit Earth only min­utes after the initial burst, bringing radio and radiation disturbances. 
After that comes the coro­nal mass ejection, which looks like a growing bubble and takes a couple days to reach Earth. It’s that ejection that could cause magnetic disrup­tions Thursday. 
“It could give us a bit of a jolt,” NASA solar physicist Alex Young said. 
The storm follows an earli­er, weaker solar eruption that happened Sunday, Kunches said. 
For North America, the good part of a solar storm — the one that creates more noticeable auroras or Northern Lights — will peak Thursday evening. Auroras could dip as far south as the Great Lakes states or lower, Kunches said, but a full moon will make them harder to see. 
Auroras are “probably the treat we get when the sun erupts,” Kunches said. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, March 8, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

No-sleepninjas 
To the night owls out there: Hello from one of your own. I’m writing at our prime time: Those wee hours of the morning after parietals and the closure of the library, when we congregate in those few campus locations still open, when it’s Nicole Michels a struggle to decide whether or not it’s News Writer tomorrow yet. 
During exam week, when everyone else moans and groans about all the work they have to do and how late they stay up to finish it, we smile snidely. We laugh at the uninitiated, the twice-a-semester library-goers who appear out of the woodwork exactly like those Catholics who go to Mass only on Christmas and Easter. We’re used to it — late nights merging into mornings are nothing new for us. 
But still, we do need to sleep occasion­ally. Last week, however, I completed one of college’s rites of passage: My first all­nighter. Even for the night owls, this is no mean feat, but I persevered. Facilitated by a continuous stream of Diet Coke and two 20-minute naps, I finished writing an essay that had slipped through the cracks earlier that week. 
Pulling the information that I needed from the readings was a time-consuming process, as was editing the paper to fit the repressively small page limit. 
Accompanying me on my journey was a sampling of the usual assortment of late-night study crowd. Procrastinators, no-sleep ninjas, students sleeping in un­comfortable positions, students working at their jobs and other students in various stages of panic about their work. 
This Mecca of late night activity is within our very own LaFortune Student Center, specifically the building’s East Lounge. The perfect place for a late night of studying because of the close proxim­ity to caffeine and sugar, the East Lounge manages to be close to yet removed from the building’s general ruckus. 
As the night progressed, the room emptied out slightly. The regular crowd went home to crawl into bed, but while exhausted, a few of us soldiered on. Of my companions, I was most confused by the uncomfortable sleepers. If you’re going to sleep, why not go to your own bed? There were three of them over the course of the night who curled up in equally weird positions to catch some shut-eye. One of them slept for four hours stretched in be­tween two chairs. He woke up eventually, only to sit down and work for about 20 minutes before leaving. You, sir, probably should have gone home long before that. 
Eventually, I finished my essay. Over­joyed, I printed it out and was shocked to see the same 10 students who had been in the computer lab 12 hours earlier. While I was yawning like crazy, these no-sleep ninjas appeared not to need sleep. They barely looked up as I passed, hammering away on their keyboards like they had just gotten a full ten hours of rest. 
Later that day, I passed one of the people who had been working in the East Lounge with me the night before. Eyes bleary, we awkwardly smiled at each other while we trudged to class, an un­spoken acknowledgment of the solidarity between those who needed to work late. 
Now that it’s midterms week, other people pop up in our sanctuaries, franti­cally finishing assignments next to the late night veterans. Newbies, good luck. Maybe if you ask nicely we’ll share our secret study spots with you. 
Contact Nicole Michels at      nmichels@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
A new foreign policy 
President Obama has not followed any formula or precedent ever estab­lished before by a U.S. president to wage war, which is causing America to lose strategic advantage and U.S. soldiers to fight an enemy with no Mark Easley goals for victory. 
First off let’s Elephant in explain what is the Room America’s role in the world. The United States is the most powerful nation and empire hu­man history has ever known. Power, in this case, refers to military might. While the role of a modern republic no longer involves physically taking territories and absorbing them into our own, it still involves military interven­tion in other nations to protect our allies and economic interests and to establish free governments that reflect our own democratic principles and pro­mote free market capitalism. This is a natural evolution of human governance that is proven to work and gives most people a fair stake in a better future. We owe it to our fellow man to spread freedom and liberate as much of the world from oppression as we can. 
There is a large camp of Americans who foolishly think our unique form of government can somehow propagate itself naturally throughout the world without applying effort. Unfortunately, freedom is not free, but won, and without the help of a powerful foreign nation, liberation against tyranny is mathematically impossible. Our own revolution was a prime example of that. 
An even more foolish camp of Ameri­cans, we will call them liberals, believe that the world doesn’t even need to be free and we should let others continue 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
to live under unfair systems that mar­ginalize and oppress citizens and keep people poor and ignorant. 
U.S. foreign policy has never been built on spreading the greater good. It is built to protect the welfare of our citizenry. Although we have the resources to change the world, the will has never been there. Whether it’s indifference by the American public or the fear of our image in the world, it is hard to summon the momentum to do the right thing. 
Our nation’s policy has always been responsive as opposed to aggressive. We have required a trigger to change the world. 9/11 allowed us to make monumental changes in the Middle East. Pearl Harbor triggered the ef­fort to wipe out totalitarianism. The invasion of allies gave us an excuse in the past to go in and clean up the worst parts of the world. This is the wrong way to approach it. We should be proactive in rooting out the enemies of freedom. 
President Obama has had plenty of excuses to make positive changes in the world through military intervention during his presidency. The Arab Spring was a great opportunity for America to take out terrible dictators that killed their own citizens to retain power. 
Obama has proved one thing during his term: The president can bomb any­one he likes and no one is going to say anything. So why doesn’t he? Although Obama was right to intervene in Libya, he was quite late and did not put boots on the ground to secure democratic values. Egypt would have turned out much better had Obama stationed U.S. and international military advisers in the country. 
Obama failed again by not remov-
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Men occasionally stumble over the truth, but most of them pick themselves up and hurry off as if nothing ever happened.” 
Sir Winston Churchill British politician 

ing Syria’s Assad regime from power in a similar fashion. Same goes for the paper tiger of Iran, and hostile governments in Asia, Africa and Latin America. The fact is we can wipe the floor with these puny regimes and free millions of people from fear. Instead, we commit resources to prolonged wars that have no achievable mission and put our soldiers in harm’s way. 
Our new foreign policy should be to strike often and leave quickly. Nation building is proven for long term stabil­ity, but it is an expensive enterprise, especially in areas with sparse eco­nomic prospects. It would be better to do more with less, and properly engage our military without getting bogged down in unfriendly regions. 
As in the days of the Roman Empire, there is no such thing as peace, there is only security for the homeland and our allies as we constantly engage the Barbarians that surround us. America is at perpetual war with terrorists, hostile regimes and radical militias, yet these black ops never make it to the front page of major news sources. 
It is time to recognize that the days of peace are over for us and step up to the plate as the champions of what is right in this world. America isn’t perfect, but we certainly are on a track that might get there someday, and we should help the world get on it, too. 
One day the world will see the end of authoritarianism, but only if we fight it now. 
Mark Easley is a senior computer science major. He can be contacted at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 



Thursday, March 8, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
A lesson on education reform 
There may be no public policy issue more important or pressing than Ameri­can education. Saying that our education system is “mediocre” may be too gener­ous. Amongst 30 developed countries, American students rank 25th in math Adam Newman and 21st in science. Roughly 1.2 million Scientia students fail to fin-Potentia Est ish high school on time every year, and a third of first year college students need to take a reme­dial course in math, science or reading. The famous 1983 study on the plight of American education, titled “A Nation at Risk,” suggested, “If an unfriendly foreign power had attempted to impose on America the mediocre educational performance that exists today, we might well have viewed it as an act of war.” 
There are many arguments meant to explain the poor performance of Ameri­can education: A lack of education fund­ing, class sizes that are too big, a lack of teachers with advanced degrees, a need for more experienced teachers and that disadvantaged children (usually minori­ties) can never be expected to achieve at high levels. 
However, none of these reasons ex­plains why American education is so bad. Numbers produced by respected Stanford education expert Eric Hanushek show that since 1960, per-student spending on education has tripled (adjusted for infla­tion.) The adult-student ratio has dropped from roughly 25 students for every adult to 15.5 students for every adult. The percentage of teachers with advanced degrees has skyrocketed from 23.5 to 48 percent and the experience of the average teacher has risen from 11 to 13 years. Even with these changes, the National Assessment of Education Progress (com­monly known as the “Nation’s Report Card”) shows that test scores in reading and math have remained flat since 1971. 
Moreover, just because students high on the socioeconomic ladder tend to do better in school than students low on the socioeconomic ladder does not mean that disadvantaged students cannot succeed. There are many examples of successful charter schools located in disadvantaged neighborhoods, such as KIPP, SEED, the Harlem Success Academies or the Harlem Children’s Zone, where proficiency in math and reading and college readiness rivals those of suburban schools, proving that demography is not destiny. 
Not surprisingly, the factor that mat­ters the most in a child’s education (by far) is the quality of the teacher. Even if a student enters a classroom below grade level, a great teacher can lead to huge academic gains. According to Hanushek, if every low-income student had a teacher good enough to be currently in the top 15 percent of quality for four years in a row, the achievement gap between low-income students and their peers would be virtu­ally eliminated. Moreover, if teachers in the bottom ten percent of quality were led out of teaching and replaced with average teachers, American education could shoot up to the level of other top education countries, like Finland and South Korea. 
There is no reform more needed in American education than to identify and reward the best teachers, help improve those who are mediocre with better evaluation systems and fire the worst performers. Unfortunately, all three are largely not done in American education.
 Due to “lock-step pay” (paying all teachers with the same years of expe­rience the same salary regardless of effectiveness) and a refusal to embrace merit pay, great teachers go unrewarded and potentially great teachers are lost (40 percent of new teachers quit within their first five years.) Due to a refusal to evalu­ate teachers based on test score data and performance evaluations from their stu­dents, administrators and fellow teach­ers, average teachers have no meaningful way to improve their individual perfor­mance. And due to tenure, the provision in American education that makes it im­possible to fire teachers for performance, bad teachers cannot be weeded out. 
One of the most depressing examples connected to the school districts’ difficul­ty with firing bad teachers belongs to the 
L.A. school district. Over the past decade, the district attempted to fire just seven of its 33,000 teachers for poor performance. 
Each case cost on average $500,000 in legal fees and lasted five years. 
Even with these efforts, the L.A. school district could only manage to fire four of the teachers. 
The premier charter schools that have produced great results, even with disadvantaged students from the inner cities, have the flexibility to reward good teachers, help improve average teach­ers and fire not just poor, but mediocre teachers as well. This begs the question: If these practices can improve education outcomes, why don’t we do them every­where? 
In an increasingly globalized, techno­logically advanced and competitive world, a top-notch education system is impera­tive. This makes the plight of American education not just a tragedy, but also an invitation to national decline. 
While many work to reform education, many more protect a perverted system that places the interests of adults ahead of those of children. The political chal­lenges to reforming education are vast, but must be overcome, because if we can­not get education right in America, then nothing else matters. 
Adam Newman is a junior finance major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A call to all 
I have considered myself part of the Notre Dame family for my entire life. I was born and raised in South Bend, and some of my earliest memories are of my parents taking me to din­ner in South Dining and of visiting the football locker room. 
But this past Monday, while listening to my fellow stu­dents speak at the “A Call to Action” town hall meeting, my conception of Notre Dame was turned upside down. Over 30 students, some of whom I knew from classes or dorm par­ties, shared personal, harrowing stories of how they had been subjected to very real discrimination on campus — from professors, from administrators and staff, from fellow stu­dents. Hearing them speak, I felt like I no longer really knew my own family. 
In the coming weeks, I am sure that many will call upon the administration, the faculty and student government to foster greater awareness of this critical issue. I myself call upon Student Affairs to undertake a systematic survey of discrimi­nation across the University, to publish these results for all to see and to use the collected data to propose a detailed set of policy changes for implementation in the coming months and years. 
But calling upon the administration is not enough. Calling upon the faculty is not enough. Calling upon student govern­ment is not enough. 
To truly bring about change, our plan of action must in­volve the student body as a whole. This is not an issue solely for students who have endured discrimination and harass­ment. This is not a problem to be tackled only by members of student government and the campus cultural clubs. This is a crisis for all of us who claim to be part of the Notre Dame family. 
We ourselves must be agents of change: in our dorms and in our classrooms, through what we say and how we say it, by speaking up when others are torn down. We must all unite in order to build a university free of discrimination, a university truly worthy of Our Lady’s name. 
Paul Baranay 
senior Alumni Hall Mar. 7 

Reflecting LGBTQ diversity 
Editor’s note: One of the authors of this letter, Jason G’Sell, was interviewed for the original article, which ran in Wednesday’s Observer. 
In response to “LGBTQ students discuss campus relationships” (Mar. 7,) we, as LGBTQ members of the Notre Dame community feel that the article does not sufficiently or accurately describe the experience of the community as a whole. The article fails to consider the perspectives of students whose experiences do not align with those of the three students quoted, demonstrating a lack of attention to the sensitive nature of such issues. 
In our experience, a majority of LGBTQ students would not be comfortable publicly outing themselves in The Observer. By only including interviews from students who are publicly out, Mervosh ignores many LGBTQ students who live with the difficulties of the closet on a daily basis.  Moreover, the article’s portrayal of the gay community as a whole suggests a culture that is concerned primarily with sexual pursuits. Not all students, however, choose to engage in such activities. 
Many LGBTQ students desire, yet struggle, to form lasting and meaningful relationships due to fear of being outed or rejected by their peers. We believe that the creation of a gay-straight alli­ance would facilitate the formation of friendships among LGBTQ individuals and allies and lead to a stronger, more unified Notre Dame community. 
If approved, a GSA would not serve as a venue for LGBTQ students to hook up. If anything, this article demonstrates that students who are interested in pursuing hookups will find other means of doing so. The underground hookup culture is one of the many negative consequences of a lack of university-sanctioned support networks for LGBTQ students to pursue mature, adult friend­ships. 
We believe The Observer should be more sensitive to realities LGBTQ students face at Notre Dame. Providing such a narrow perspective on the LGBTQ community only serves to reinforce negative stereotypes that do not represent many LGBTQ students’ experiences. 
While we appreciate The Observer’s attempt to create dialogue about LGBTQ issues, this series of articles should serve simply as a starting point for future discussions surrounding the diversity of experiences of LGBTQ students and allies at Notre Dame. 
Jason G’Sell 
senior Duncan Hall Mar. 7 
Cody Gaffney 
senior Keough Hall Mar. 7 
Tom Lienhoop 
sophomore Dillon Hall Mar. 7 


Scene Staff Report 

Spending spring break in South Bend? There’s plenty in and around South Bend to keep you busy during your week off. Take advantage of some free time and (hopefully) nicer weather to explore Michiana and find some of the hidden gems just around the cor­ner. 
Sugar Camp Days — Bendix Woods 
This annual tradition celebrates the end of winter with a whole lot of maple syrup. Over the course of two days, you can visit St. Joseph County’s Bendix Woods to see sap cook into maple syrup, enjoy pancakes, tour a sugar bush (where the sap comes from) and buy home-made booked goods, all made with pure maple syrup. There will be other activi­ties throughout the two days, including live music and Rent-A-Sap Bucket, which you can rent for maple syrup treats to bring home. 
Fiddler’s Hearth 

Fiddler’s Hearth, a local Irish pub, is the perfect way to celebrate the end of midterms and a week off of school. The pub has an extensive menu of Irish-inspired food, such as fish and chips and boxties, and a tap to go along with it for those of age. The atmo­sphere is charming and friendly — with a host of large tables, you may even make new friends with the people sitting near you. Fid­dler’s offers an excellent variety of live music every night at 9 p.m. Their traditional Irish music and pub songs are not to be missed. Fiddler’s is a hidden gem of South Bend, but for a new night out, it can’t be beat. 
Movies at DPAC 

For those staying on campus, Spring Break can be a time of relaxing and catching up on TV shows and movies that manage to escape our time during busy school days. Squeeze a few intellectually challenging films into your rotation, as DPAC is screening several of the most recent popular and acclaimed in­die films. On the first weekend, it is show­ing “Margaret,” starring Matt Damon and a pre-Sookie Anna Paquin, which was shot in 2005 and released last year. “Take Shelter” features a performance by Michael Shan­non that was widely considered to be a major Oscar snub. 2011 breakout actress Jessica Chastain plays his wife in the psychological thriller. The second weekend of break pan­ders to Michael Fassbender fans, who can see both his emotionally and physically reveal­ing sex addict in “Shame” and his portrayal of Carl Jung in “A Dangerous Method” with Keira Knightley and Viggo Mortensen. 
St. Patrick’s Day Festivities 
If you are looking for a fun way to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day while on campus, the city of South Bend has organized number of ac­tivities for the whole community to enjoy and participate in. This year, festivities will begin early with a “St. Paddy’s Tent Party and Pub Tour” on Friday from from 5 to 11 p.m. at 350 South Michigan Street downtown. For those of you 21 or older, this is an event you won’t want to miss. On the holiday itself, the an­nual St. Patrick’s Day Parade will take place. It will begin at 11 a.m. in Jefferson and Fran­cis streets and end at Washington Street. The “Greening of the East Race,” sponsored by Fiddler’s Hearth, will immediately follow the parade and the festivities will continue there with live music until 1 a.m. 
Chippewa Bowl 
Bowling is fun for everyone, whether you’re a seasoned pro or a frequent bumper-user. A trip to the lanes is a great way to relax and hang out with friends while enjoying a little friendly competition. Chippewa Bowl provides a wonderful location for these ac­tivities. And they frequently have cosmic bowling, to add a little excitement to your ex­perience. Just to sweeten the pot, they have $5 unlimited bowling from 9 p.m. to close on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. 
Thursday, March 8, 2012 




Scene Staff Report 

Day trips are a perfect way to get away from school during your week off. With easy access to Chicago, Michigan and of course the rest of Indiana, the possibilities for ex­ploration are endless. Borrow a friend’s car or find trains and buses to get out and see something new. 
Indiana University 

Our friends to the south are lucky to call Bloomington, Ind. home. This town, seam­lessly integrated with the IU campus, is full of restaurants, shops, bars and cafes for a real college town atmosphere. It should be a little warmer down in Southern Indiana and the IU campus is simply beautiful to walk around. If you don’t know someone who goes there, one of your friends most likely does, so carpool down for a change of scenery. 
Wineries 

Yes, there are wineries in Indiana and sur­prisingly quite a few that are close by. You may not be in Napa Valley or the Italian coun­tryside, but visiting a winery for a day can offer a quick but sophisticated vacation from South Bend. Most offer tours and tastings that are less than $20. One of the closest is Fruit Hills Winery & Orchard in the heart of Amish country. Shady Creek Winery in Mich­igan City offers wine pairing plates with dec­adent foods such as brie, chocolate truffles and marinated olives. Anderson’s Vineyard & Winery offers a wagon ride through its roll­ing hills in Valparaiso. Grab your over-21 friends and head to a close winery that will be sure to make your break a little more luxe. Find more wineries at indianawines.org 
Michigan Breweries 

It may seem like Michigan doesn’t have much to offer, but for those over 21, the Lower Peninsula features over 20 micro-breweries, featuring beers like the Pickaxe Blonder, Red Tulip and Ring of Fire. Dewey Cannon Win­ery & Brewery is the closest to South Bend in Three Oaks, Mich. They pair their arti­san beers with delicious food native to the area. Featured beers include Captain Easy, an Irish-American Pale Ale, Dewey Cannon IPA, “Chucker” Brown Ale and Dublin Porter. Check out michigan.org for a full listing of other breweries that are worth checking out. 
St. Patrick’s Day Parade in Chicago 
Will you be at Notre Dame for Spring Break? Would you like to feel a little more Irish than even campus will allow? Then plan a trip to Chicago for St. Patty’s Day. Chicago’s annual festivities begin at 10 a.m. Satur­day, March 17 with the dyeing of the Chicago River. Each year, the Chicago River is dyed a bright shade of kelly green to commemo­rate St. Patrick’s Day. This tradition began over 40 years ago when Chicago’s plumb­ers were using a green dye to detect leaks in the river’s waste system. Since then, the Chicago Journeyman Plumbers Local Union has upheld this tradition. If you’d like to see the river dyeing, head to the intersection of Michigan Avenue, Wacker Drive and the river. Following the river dyeing, the St. Patrick’s Day Parade steps off at 12 p.m. Saturday. The parade starts at the intersection of Balbo Drive and Columbus Drive and heads north. The viewing station is located at Buckingham Fountain in Grant Park. If you are taking the South Shore Line from South Bend to the Van Buren Street stop, Grant Park is about a six-minute walk away. More information on Chicago’s parade festivities can be found at chicagostpatsparade.com 
Art Institute of Chicago 
The Art Institute is less than a five-min­ute walk from the Van Buren stop on the train from South Bend to Chicago. Holding one of the best collections of Impressionist art in the country, the Art Institute has ex­tensive rooms of European, East Asian, and American art. The displays are informative and visually stunning, and the museum is located right on Michigan Avenue. Take an early train in to beat the museum rush and grab a light breakfast at Corner Bakery Cafe. They serve paninis, eggs and unlimited cof­fee that’s actually good. After taking some time at the museum, walk down to Giorda­no’s for a late lunch and enjoy the rest of Mil­lennium Park. Taking an early train back is preferable, since you still have to get back to campus from South Bend Station. 
Thursday, March 8, 2012 


By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 
“The Lorax” is a hit with music and Seussian charm. 
It’s hard to adapt Dr. Se­uss to the big screen. Jim Carrey’s 2000 film “How the Grinch Stole Christmas” taught us that. But Univer­sal’s “The Lorax” does not fol­low in that mold. It is funny and engaging, with all of Dr. Seuss’s wit. It’s even a musi­cal, to boot. 
The film’s plot adds anoth­er storyline to Seuss’s book. Ted Wiggins (Zac Efron) is a young boy living in Thneed-Ville desperate to impress Audrey (Taylor Swift), whose life dream is to see a real tree. Thneed-Ville is a walled city, made entirely of plastic. Even their air is manufac­tured, but Audrey has seen pictures of Truffula Trees and now she wants to see the real thing. 
Lovestruck, Ted heads out­side the city limits to visit the Once-ler (Ed Helms), who his grandma says has an­swers about the trees. Over the course of a few visits, the Once-ler tells Ted the story of the Lorax (Danny DeVito) and the disappearance of all the Truffula Trees, for which he is responsible. 
Ted must sneak out of Thneed-Ville each time he wants to visit the Once­ler, though. The mayor, Mr. O’Hare (Rob Riggle), does not approve of Ted’s adventures and he threatens Ted to stop, even sending his large secu­rity guards against the young boy. But none of this deters Ted on his mission to find a Truffula Tree for Audrey. 
The Once-ler ends his story to Ted with the inspirational moral left by the Lorax: “Un­less someone like you cares a whole awful lot, nothing’s going to get better. It’s not.” Ted then takes the last Truf­fula Seed, and he brings it to Thneed-Ville so that he can plant it and bring the trees back. 
Despite Mr. O’Hare’s best attempts, Ted is successful. Truffula Trees return, and he wins the girl. 
The story is predictable, and not just because it is based off a beloved children’s book. But that doesn’t make the film any less engaging and enjoyable. There is a new plotline to explore and the musical numbers take the film to another level. The animation captures the origi­nal heart and soul of Seuss’s characters. 
Danny DeVito as the Lorax is spot-on casting. It’s easy to imagine actually playing the role, rocking a huge mus­tache. He is grumpy, plays tricks on the Once-ler and makes ridiculous comments, but his actions have a point, to speak for the forest and save the trees. He and his adorable woodland friends tug at the audience’s heart­strings as they see the forest they love destroyed around them. 
But the best part of the movie is the music. The trail­ers gave no indication of the fantastic numbers, so they come as a bit of a surprise. However, they kept the mag­ic and spirit of Seuss’s book alive. For this reason, Helms is perfect for the role of the Once-ler, as he has proven on “The Office” he has musical chops. 
But the best song in the 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Scene Editor 

Today is your chance to see a true film icon as she lectures in her area of expertise. Lau­ra Mulvey, author of the seminal feminist es­say, “Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema,” will visit Notre Dame to give a talk entitled, “Hitchcock’s Blondes, Feminism and Psycho­analytic Film Theory.” 
When Mulvey published “Visual Pleasure” in 1975, she changed the face of both film scholarship and the medium itself. Her work attacked the imposing patriarchy of film pro­duction at the time. This essay began a new branch of film scholarship that took a femi­nist perspective. It is widely read in most film theory classes today, including those taught at Notre Dame. Mulvey pioneered the theory of the “male gaze” in this essay, focusing in­tently on Alfred Hitchcock’s “Rear Window,” which could likely be a point of discussion in tonight’s talk. 
Mulvey’s most recent book is “Death Twen­ty-four Times a Second: Stillness and the Moving Image,” published in 2006. It studies the ways new media technologies affect the experiences of watching and understanding films. The book ultimately analyzes how new media and technology can shape an under­standing of film history in general. 
Mulvey is also a noted filmmaker, par­ticularly known for “Riddles of the Sphinx” (1977), often considered her most influen­tial film. The film utilizes psychoanalysis to study the role of women in society. 
Mulvey worked at the British Film Institute for many years before taking up her current post as a professor of film and media stud­ies at Birkbeck College at the University of London. 
The lecture this evening will focus on Hitchcock’s iconic blondes and bridge Freud­ian psychoanalysis to study these important figures in the director’s films. Most of his films cast blonde actresses in the lead female role, and they have become a popular topic of critical discussion and writing concerning his work. 
Mulvey will specifically argue the way Hitchcock incorporates blonde actresses and characters into his films simultaneously analyzes and exploits the idea of woman as spectacle. 
For film scholars, psychologists and movie fans alike, Mulvey’s talk is sure to be a high­light of Notre Dame’s 2012 lecture season. She has a long history studying film — par­ticularly Hitchcock — from unique perspec­tives, challenging popular assumptions and changing the way audiences and scholars view films. 
She is a true pioneer in the field of film and media study and will surely have new in­sights to add to popular conceptions of Hitch­cock and his blonde stars tonight. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: Laura Mulvey Where: 7 to 9 p.m. When: Eck Visitor’s Center Auditorium How Much: Free and open to the public Learn More: ftt.nd.edu 
movie actually does not fea­ture Helms. Efron and Swift take the reins on “Let It Grow,” using music to con­vince the inhabitants of Thneed-Ville to get behind Ted’s Truffula Tree plan. Ac­cording to Audrey, Thneed-Ville needs to “let it grow, let it grow, you can’t reap what you can’t sow. Plant a seed in­side the earth, just one way to know what it is worth.” Even 3-year-old Marie gets in on the song, making for a touch­ing moment. 
And while the movie obvi­ously has a message about the environment, it doesn’t smack you over the head re­peatedly, making you feel like you’re being preached at. There’s more to the story and you will leave the theater moved, not annoyed. 
This film is worth the trip to theaters, even if you only want to relive your childhood love of Seuss. You’ll remem­ber why you memorized the story as a child and want to head right back into the next showing. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 



“The Lorax” 
Directed by: Chris Renaud Starring: Danny Devito, Zac Efron, Taylor Swift, Ed Helms, Rob Riggle, Betty White, Jenny Slate 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Cheating in sports is just part of the game 
If you were a professional ath­lete, what would you do to win a championship? Most would prob­ably say they would do anything. It’s the reason we have seen the steroids era in the MLB, match-fixing in European soccer and recruiting scandals across col­lege football and basket­ball. 
And almost every week we see a new story about taking an illegal, extra-competitive advantage. Don’t think so? Check out the latest Syracuse cover-up where the program let players who tested positive for drugs continue playing even though they were ineligible. 
And even in a time when foot­ball has been over for a month, the NFL still manages to grab all the attention in sports with its latest scandal. 
But now we are past the reactionary period of the Saints bounty ordeal. It’s been a week, and, frankly, I’m tired of hear­ing shallow reactions. It’s easy to sit back from a couch and say how wrong it was for the Saints’ defense to institute this bounty program. Jeff Van Gundy may be one of the most annoying voices in sports, but he made a great point on Sunday. It’s easy to make analysis after the fact. Anyone can do it, and at this point it seems to all be recycled chatter. 
But in typical ESPN fashion, NFL Live put on a “Bounty Round-table” with former NFL players where the loudest person won. At one point Tedy Bruschi’s face was redder than a throwback Patriots jersey while Trey Wingo looked scared as if he would have been tackled if he tried to mediate. 
The dust has fallen, so now let’s put it this in perspective. 
Cheating is a part of sports. It happens when someone blurs the line separating the desire to win and acting within the integrity of the game. And if not stopped immediately, it evolves and can contaminate a sport for years to come. 
When gambling was a problem in baseball, Major League Baseball banned “Shoeless” Joe Jackson to set a precedent, regardless of whether it was right or not. The same thing happened with Pete Rose. But the NBA didn’t tailor Mi­chael Jordan or Charles Barkley’s gambling problem (because the problem didn’t involve basketball), and years later the NBA found it-

Andrew Gastelum 
Sports Writer 
self engulfed in a betting scandal with one of its own referees. 
Precedents are set to stop the inevitable evolution of a terrible occurrence. We may not agree with the precedents, but they have a purpose. 
Could you imagine if Bud Selig had immediately suspended (or even banned) a Sammy Sosa or Barry Bonds? It surely would have stung at the time for base­ball fans everywhere, but would baseball still be sloshing its way through the end of steroid era today? Probably not, because it would have shown that there is an immediate price to pay, even if the steroid issue had its roots in the minor league system. 
The NFL should learn from its friends. 
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell ended the Spygate era before it starting rolling down­hill with huge fines thrown at the Patriots. But now there is a new issue, one which has occurred in locker rooms and behind closed doors for years. 
The only people who really could have stopped the bounty program in New Orleans were coach Sean Payton, general man­ager Mickey Loomis and the pro­gram’s instigator, defensive coor­dinator Gregg Williams. Don’t put all the blame on the players. Yes, they made the wrong choice in taking part in the program, but don’t try to say that a third-string cornerback was going to stand up to the guy who determines his playing time and paycheck. But the captains maybe could have. Instead, captain Jonathan Vilma offers 10-grand to anyone who knocks Brett Favre out of his Wrangler jeans. 
Meanwhile, Payton and Loomis could have immediately stopped it with a quick, resolute response. Instead, they turned away from the situation and won a Super Bowl. 
If Goodell wants to stop the growth of this situation across the league, he will come down hard on the Saints organization, Williams and Vilma. Williams’ role may even garner a year-long or lifetime ban, while Payton’s and Vilma’s should include a sus­pension and heavy fines, at least. 
Sure, it’ll be a black eye, but it will go away with some ice and rest. To borrow a popu­lar phrase used in the bounty program by Gregg Williams: “If you cut the snake’s head off, the body will die.” 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu.
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Indianapolis releases Manning 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Now that Peyton Manning’s 14-year run with the Indianapolis Colts is over, the only four-time MVP in NFL history will turn his atten­tion to finding a new team. 
Manning and the Colts end­ed their successful partner­ship with a tearful goodbye Wednesday, when team owner Jim Irsay released the star quarterback rather than pay a whopping $28 million bonus while there are lingering ques­tions about his health. 
“We all know that nothing lasts forever,” Manning said. “Times change, circumstances change, and that’s the reality of playing in the NFL.” 
Another reality: Manning is sure to command plenty of of­fers on the open market as one of the most coveted free agents in league history — assuming he shows he is fine after a series of neck operations that forced him to miss all of last season. 
Arizona, Miami, Seattle, Ten­nessee, Washington and the New York Jets all have been ru­mored as possible destinations; Manning’s former offensive co­ordinator in Indianapolis, Tom Moore, worked for the Jets as a consultant last season. 
“I’m throwing it pretty well. I’ve still got some work to do; I’ve got some progress to make,” Manning said. “But I’ve come a long way. I’ve really worked hard. I can’t tell you the hours and the time I’ve put in.” 
He turns 36 this month, but his importance to the Colts’ success was never more appar­ent than in 2011, when their re­cord plummeted to 2-14 without him. 
“Peyton is on the mend to try to resume his career,” Irsay noted. 
Manning and Irsay each paused frequently, fighting tears and their voices shaking, as they appeared together at a news conference at the Colts’ team complex. It was an un­usual and awkward scene, two men whose NFL lives have been so closely intertwined, standing side-by-side in jackets and ties as they told the world they were splitting up. 
“This has not been easy for Jim,” Manning said, “and this has certainly not been easy for me.” 
A few hours after the news conference, the Colts issued a statement giving the official news. The stark first sentence: “The Indianapolis Colts today 
released  quarterback  Peyton  
Manning.”  
Indianapolis  needed  to  cut  

Manning this week to avoid paying him a bonus from the $90 million, five-year contract he signed in July, although both owner and player insisted the de­cision was not really about mon­ey. The Colts are widely expected to begin moving on by taking Stanford quarterback Andrew Luck with the No. 1 overall pick in April’s draft. 
Irsay repeatedly used the word “rebuilding” and acknowledged: “We’re definitely a few years away.” 
Manning won’t retire and hopes to be playing in the NFL at the start of next season. 
Still, he said Wednesday: “I’ll always be a Colt. I always will be. That’ll never change.” 
The announcement was made in a room at the Colts’ complex normally reserved for celebra­tory news conferences, such as the hiring of a new coach or gen­eral manager — two other ma­jor steps Irsay took recently. The room is lined with banners hon­oring some of the team’s great­est stars, including, of course, Manning himself, flanked by Pro Football Hall of Famer members Eric Dickerson and John Mackey. 
Clearly, this was not an easy goodbye for Manning. He even got choked up while discussing all of the Colts employees he’ll no longer be around, pausing to col­lect himself while noting: “We’ve got the greatest equipment guys in the world.” 
“I think about those type of relationships — not necessar­ily always on the field, and the touchdown throw to win the game. It’s the behind the scenes. The laughs. The stories. The times spent together. Those are the memories. Those aren’t going away. Those will be with me for the rest of my life.” 
Manning forever will be thought of around these parts as No. 18, the quarterback who led the Colts to an NFL champion­ship, barking out signals while waving his arms at the line of scrimmage to change a play after reading the defense — something he did as well as any QB. 
He’ll be remembered, too, for his record four MVP awards, his 50,000 yards passing and his 200 consecutive starts. Most of all, Manning will be the guy in the horseshoe helmet who turned around a franchise and trans­formed a basketball-loving city into a football hotbed that hosted the Super Bowl a month ago. 


And during that Super Bowl week, the hottest topic of con­versation was Peyton Manning, not his younger brother Eli, who wound up leading the New York Giants to the title. 
“There will be no other Peyton Manning,” Irsay said, adding that he hoped Wednesday’s joint ap­pearance would serve to “honor incredible memories and incred­ible things that he’s done for the franchise, for the city, for the state.” 
This marks the end of a strong marriage between a player and team. 
After being a No. 1 draft pick himself, Manning started every meaningful game for 13 seasons in Indianapolis — 227 in a row, including the playoffs — and took the Colts from perennial also-ran to one of the NFL’s model fran­chises and the 2007 Super Bowl title. 
In the two decades predating his arrival, the Colts won 116 games, one division title and made the playoffs three times. With Manning taking snaps, the Colts have won 150 games, eight division titles, two AFC champi­onships and the franchise’s first league championship since mov­ing from Baltimore in 1984. 
Indianapolis broke the NFL record for most regular-season wins in a decade (115), and tied Dallas’ mark for most consecu­tive playoff appearances (nine). 
Manning is one of just four players to reach 50,000 yards passing, one of three with more than 350 TD tosses, and one of two quarterbacks with more than 200 starts in a row. He broke all of the franchise’s major career passing records, previously held by Hall of Fame quarterback John Unitas. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

PERSONAL FERRIS BUELLER’S DAY OFF Ferris: If you’re not over here in Cameron: Okay Ferris, can we just Economics Teacher: Bueller? Ferris: Not that I condone (1986) fifteen minutes, you can find a new let it go, please? Bueller? Bueller? fascism, or any -ism for that best friend. Sloane: Ferris, please. You’ve gone Simone: Um, he’s sick. My best matter. -Ism’s in my opinion are 
Ferris: Hey, Cameron. You realize Cameron: You’ve been saying that to far. We’re going to get busted. friend’s sister’s boyfriend’s not good. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t if we played by the rules right now since the fifth grade. Ferris: A: You can never go too brother’s girlfriend heard from A person should not believe in go it alone. Notre Dame has many we’d be in gym? far. B: If I’m gonna get busted, it is this guy who knows this kid an -ism, he should believe in resources in place to assist you. Cameron: [singing] When Cameron *not* gonna be by a guy like *that*. who’s going with the girl who himself. If you or someone you love needs [a baseball game is on television] was in Egypt’s land... let my saw Ferris pass out at 31 Flavors I quote John Lennon, “I don’t confidential support or assistance, Ed Rooney: What’s the score? Cameron go! Ferris: [describing Cameron’s last night. I guess it’s pretty believe in Beatles, I just believe please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Pizza Joint Owner: Nothin’ nothin’. house] The place is like a museum. serious. in me.” Good point there. After 1-7819. For more information, Ed Rooney: [not really listening] Ferris: Hi. Do you speak English? It’s very beautiful and very cold, Economics Teacher: Thank you, all, he was the walrus. I could be visit ND’s website at: http:// Who’s winning? Garage Attendant: Uh, what and you’re not allowed to touch Simone. the walrus. I’d still have to bum pregnancysupport@nd.edu Pizza Joint Owner: The Bears. country do you think this is? anything. Simone: No problem whatsoever. rides off people. 
OLYMPICS 

London Assembly demands answers about tickets 
Associated Press 
LONDON — The London Assembly pounced on Olym­pics chief Sebastian Coe on Wednesday, demanding an­swers to whether the public had a fair shot at tickets to the men’s 100-meter final and other popular events. 
The heated exchanges also hit at many of the big Brit­ish gripes about the event — from traffic to sponsorships 
— forcing the smooth-talk­ing games chief into an uncharac ­teristically 
of London Mayor Boris Johnson. 
Tickets proved the flashpoint. Critics of the Olympics be­lieve a disproportionate number of tickets have been sold in higher price brackets, excluding those who can’t af­ford to pay for the most popu­lar events. 
Assembly members have been demanding an account­ing of how many have been sold so far and at what price. Organizers say it is too diffi­cult, as well as commercially sensitive, to give up the data now. 
Dee Doocey, the chair of the assembly committee that examined the ticketing pro­cess, did not bother to hide her frustration after Coe again refused a request for the data. 
“You are the least trans­parent organization I have ever come across in the eight years I have been on at the London Assembly!” she said, 



def ensive 

“I am not going to 
stance. The 

divert the attention of 
unlikely fo­

my team who still have 
rum for the 

4 million tickets and 
sparring was 

the assem-revenue targets to meet bly, an elect-because this is how ed watch-we fund the games.” dog group charged with 
Sebastian Coe 
being a check 

Olympics chief 
on the power her voice ris­ing. 
Coe kept trying to de­fend himself, but it didn’t end there. The meet­ing devolved into a roll call of every major prob­lem faced by the London organizing committee, known as LOCOG. 
First and fo remost, there’s the issue over whether or­ganizers its purchase of Union Carbide made the U.S.-based compa­ny responsible for groundwa­ter contamination and other issues that linger in India. 
After Dow, the assembly moved on to other sponsors. Were McDonald’s food offer­ings in line with the goal of making food at the Olympics sustainable? Would Coca-Co­la offer a broad range of bev­erages and prices, given that no liquids would be allowed through security and into the should continue to associate themselves with Dow Chemi­cal Co. because of its links to the company accused in the 1984 Bhopal gas leak. Dow bought Union Carbide 16 years after the 1984 accident in the central Indian city of Bhopal that killed an esti­mated 15,000 people. Dow maintains it was not respon­sible for the catastrophe, but the company’s critics argue park? 


Coe and games Chief Ex­ecutive Officer Paul Deighton found themselves constant­ly being interrupted and at times they weren’t even able to complete sentences. 
But it was on the ques­tion of ticketing that the two leaders are most vulnerable. London’s Olympic ticketing process has been slowed by intractable computer prob­
lems and huge de­mand. Orga­nizers first drew outrage by establish­ing a compli­cated lottery system in which peo­ple blindly registered for tickets and handed over credit card details before they knew what tickets they might get. 
The system 
will lead to full stadiums, even for less popular events. But people were frustrated and the process added to grumbling about huge public expenditures. Britain is pay­ing 9.3 billion pounds ($14.6 billion) for the games at a time of national economic hardship. 
The inability of many peo­ple to attend has contributed to a souring of the national 
mood about the  whole en­ 
deavor.  
Coe  has  said  two-thirds  

of Olympic tickets are being sold for less than 50 pounds ($79). A remaining 4 million tickets will be sold in April. 
Organizers have prom­ised a full accounting once 

“I am not going to take [my team] off focus to work on every single client group for every single session. We are talking about 1,000 sessions. I am sorry but we are being entirely transparent here.” 
Sebastian Coe Olympics chief 
it is all done. But Doocey wasn’t hav­ing it, saying a breakdown “should be available at the hit of a 
button.”  
But  Coe  
would  not  
budge.  

“I am not going to di­vert the at­tention of my team who still have 4 million tick­ets and rev­enue targets 
to meet because that is how we fund the games,” he said. “I am not going to take them off focus to work on every single client group for every single session. We are talk­ing about 1,000 sessions. I am sorry but we are being entirely transparent here.” 


NHL 

Penguins notch seventh straight win, beat Toronto 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Pascal Du­puis scored twice and had an assist, and the Pittsburgh Pen­guins rallied to beat the slump­ing Toronto Maple Leafs 3-2 on Wednesday night for their sev­enth straight victory. 
Jordan Staal added a goal and an assist to extend his points streak to a career-best six games and rookie Brad Thies­sen stopped 22 shots. 
The Penguins started the day by unveiling a statue honoring Hall of Famer Mario Lemieux outside Consol Energy Center. The three-time MVP, now the team owner, watched from his box as Pittsburgh won for the 11th time in its last 12 home games to strengthen its hold on fourth-place in the Eastern Conference. 
Phil Kessel and Carl Gun­narsson scored for Toronto. The Maple Leafs let an early two-goal lead slip away while falling to 1-2 since Randy Carlyle took over as coach following Ron Wilson’s firing. 
Carlyle’s hiring was supposed to rejuvenate a team that has fallen to the fringe of the play­off picture over the last month. Toronto beat Montreal on Sat­urday night in his first game behind the bench, but there has been no bounce. The Maple Leafs have lost six of seven and are five points behind eighth-place Winnipeg in the playoff race. 
Pittsburgh has no such wor­ries, riding goalie Marc-Andre Fleury and the line of Evgeni Malkin, James Neal and Chris Kunitz to the inside track for home ice in the opening round of the playoffs. 
Fleury received an unex­pected night off and while the Maple Leafs kept Malkin — tied for the NHL scoring lead with Tampa Bay’s Steven Stamkos 
— in check, the trio of Dupuis, Staal and Matt Cooke filled in capably. 
Thiessen wasn’t bad either, another promising sign as the Penguins search for a reliable backup. Veteran Brent Johnson has struggled all season and is dealing with an undisclosed in­jury. Enter Thiessen, who was solid in his NHL debut against Columbus on Feb. 26, stopping 22 shots to pick up his first ca­reer victory, though he was quick to credit Pittsburgh’s de­fense after beating the woeful Blue Jackets. 
While the Penguins again limited the number of chances Thiessen faced, he was stellar during the third period, making a series of saves on a late To­ronto power play to extend the NHL’s longest active winning streak. 
The Maples Leafs managed just three shots in the first peri­od but still took the lead a min­ute in the second period during a chippy sequence that ended with Kessel’s 34th goal of the season. Toronto’s Tyler Bozak won a puck battle in the corner and fed Jake Gardiner in the slot. Bozak then headed to the net where he got knocked into Thiessen. The two lay sprawled on the ice while Gardiner hit Kessel standing wide open at the far post to give the Maple Leafs the lead. 
Gunnarsson made it 2-0 with a nifty deflection on a shot by Mikhail Grabovski, but just like Toronto’s last visit to Consol En­ergy Center, it wouldn’t hold up. Pittsburgh roared back from a 4-1 third-period deficit to win in a shootout on Jan. 31, with Malkin tying the game with a deflection off his shoulder in the final seconds of regulation. 
Dupuis put Pittsburgh on the board less than 2 minutes after Gunnarsson’s goal, redirecting a shot from the point by Matt Kiskanen past Toronto’s Jonas Gustavsson. 
Staal tied it 1:34 into the third period with a similar play off a shot by Brooks Orpik. Dupuis put Pittsburgh in front less than 3 minutes later for his first mul­tiple-goal game since he scored twice against New Jersey last April. 
NBA 

Heat extend streak at home 
Associated Press 

MIAMI — LeBron James had 31 points and 11 rebounds, Dwyane Wade added 18 points and set up Udonis Haslem for an alley-oop dunk with 12 sec­onds left, and the Miami Heat rallied to beat the Atlanta Hawks 89-86 on Wednesday night. 
Miami won its 11th straight at home and had to come from 10 points down in the third quarter to extend the streak. Another Heat streak ended — it was Miami’s first time since April 6, 2006, without making a 3-pointer, a span that includ­ed 455 regular-season games and 60 more in the playoffs. 
The Heat were 0 for 10 from beyond the arc. 
Josh Smith scored 23 for the Hawks, who were without Joe Johnson and Tracy McGrady, among others. Jannero Pargo had a look at a potential game-tying 3-pointer at the buzzer, but it hit the rim and bounced away. 
Jeff Teague scored 16 and Jerry Stackhouse added 10 for the Hawks. The Heat only had two players in double figures, with Chris Bosh managing only nine points on a 3 for 14 shooting night. 
Pargo’s three-point play with 
30.5 seconds left got the Hawks within 85-84, but on the next Miami possession, Wade found Haslem at the rim to push the lead back to three. A layup by Vladimir Radmanovic with 4 seconds left got Atlanta within one, but Wade — who also had nine rebounds and six assists 
— made a pair of free throws with 2.7 seconds left. 
The Hawks twice led by 10 points in the third quarter, the first coming on a 3-pointer by Kirk Hinrich, the other when Smith made a pair of free throws with 4 minutes left to give Atlanta a 65-55 edge. 
Then things got heated. 

And the Heat needed the boost. 
Miami went on top after a 13-0 run, a spurt that really started to roll when Wade stole the ball from Teague, got a pass back from Mario Chalm­ers and threw down a dunk that went halfway through the net, hit his chest twice as he held on to the goal — then fi­nally fell through the net. 
Atlanta turned the ball over four straight times, and not only were the Hawks los­ing the ball, they were losing their cool. During one scrum, Zaza Pachulia grabbed onto James’ head, earning both a personal foul and a technical foul as players from both sides got testy with one another and even Carolina Panthers quar­terback Cam Newton — sitting courtside — feigned wanting to run on the court to join in the fun. 
Chalmers and James com­bined to make two free throws, and the Heat lead was at 68­65. 

Wade blocked a 3-point try by Stackhouse with 16 seconds left in the third, Shane Bat­tier swatted away an attempt by Ivan Johnson on the final play of the quarter, and the Hawks scored only six points in a span of 10 minutes, 12 sec­onds stretching into the fourth quarter. 
But when Atlanta snapped out of it, with Teague mak­ing two layups in a 21-sec­ond span, it was suddenly a game again, with the Heat up only 77-75. Another basket by Teague tied it, and Smith’s 3-pointer with 3:29 left put the Hawks back on top. 
Miami scored the next six, Haslem’s jumper with just over a minute to go giving the Heat an 83-80 lead. 


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Diving duo heads to championships 


By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Throughout the season, the Irish diving duo of freshman Allison Casareto and junior Jenny Chiang has placed near or at the top of meets. They will look to extend their success 
—
 and seasons 

—
 at the NCAA Zone Diving championship 



when each will “It’s extremely difficult to compete in make NCAAs, especially the one-meter as a diver in this 
dive Thursday 

particular zone because 
and the three­

it’s the most difficult 
meter dive Fri-

zone in the nation.” 
day. 

“It’s ex­tremely dif-Allison Casareto ficult to make freshman diver 
NCAAs, espe­cially as a div­er in this par­ticular zone because it’s the most diffi­cult zone in the nation,” Casa­reto said. “I’m really excited to just see the competition out there and just look at everyone else and watch what they do to be inspired and motivated.” 
Competition at the zone meet includes Big East champion Louisville along with Michigan, Indiana and Purdue. 
Casareto said the unusual length of the event could pose a challenge to the pair. 
“I also have to maintain fo­cus and make sure I last the whole three-hour meet,” Casa­reto said. “It’s not only a meet of mentality, but also of physical endurance, which is rare for diving.” 

Yet, both divers have a strong chance to become the first Irish diver since Natalie Stitt in 2009 to advance to the NCAA championships, espe­
cially after their recent perfor­mances at the Big East champion­ships. 
Chi ang earned the Big East title in the three-me­ter dive for the third consecu ­tive year, and placed third in the one-meter. Meanwhile, Casareto placed sec­

ond in the three-meter and earned All-Big East honors. 
“For me to be able to go to this meet and to be able to qualify and include myself in this group of divers is such a privilege,” Casareto said. “I’m trying to make the most I pos­sibly can out of it.” 
The top seven finishers in each dive advance to the NCAA Swimming and Diving championships in Auburn, Ala., next weekend. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Notre Dame advances to regionals 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
After the Irish narrowly fell to Ohio State in Sunday’s Mid­west Conference champion­ships Sunday, they will take part in the NCAA Regional championships in Cleveland this weekend. 
Despite the loss, the men earned first in the sabre and foil competitions and second place in the epee. The women claimed second in the sabre, and third in the epee and foil competitions. 
“For the team, it’s a step­ping stone in a big, long jour­ney we have toward a second NCAA championship,” junior James Kaull said. 
The Irish were a bit sur­prised by the strength of the Buckeyes, but were also pleased with the depth across the board for Notre Dame. 
“In previous years, we’ve really rolled over those guys,” Kaull said. “This year they’re very strong. In fact, they might the strongest team in the country.” 
Junior Jack Piasio echoed Kaull’s sentiment, but added that Notre Dame is certainly competitive with Ohio State and is right there at the top. The final tally in the men’s epee was 5-1, but every bout was close. 
“If Ohio State is the No. 1 team in the country, we’re just as good if not better than them,” Piasio said. “Every­one’s competitive from top to bottom — the whole squad. That shows a lot of depth and resilience in the performance of everyone out there.” 
If the Irish learned they can compete with the best teams in the country and perhaps repeat as national champi­ons, they also learned there is a good deal of work to be done to get ultimately achieve their goal. 
“It’s confirmation that we are where we want to be in some degrees and we are not where we want to be in other degrees,” Kaull said. “It’s an important accomplishment for our program as a whole.” 
The window of time the Irish can make those im­provements is dwindling. 
“This is a great barometer. 
We’re going up against all these guys individually this next weekend in Regionals,” Piasio said. “Seeing how they fence here, seeing how we match up to them. You can make a few tweaks to your game in a day. We can’t really change anything drastically.” 
Following the NCAA Re­gional championships in Cleveland, the Irish will par­take in the NCAA champion­ships 10 days later in Colum­bus, Ohio. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish aim for a comeback with two tournaments 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
After taking a disappointing 13th place at the Darius Rucker Invitational in Hilton Head, S.C., Notre Dame looks to bounce back with two tournaments over break. 
The tournament in South Car­olina was cut a round short on Sunday due to heavy rainfall and thunderstorms at the Long Cove Golf Club. The Irish shot 24-over par and dropped from sixth to 13th place in a 15-team field fol­lowing their second round. They finished with a team score of 620 after two rounds. 
Coming off a 14th place show­ing in the last tournament, freshman Ashley Armstrong will be leading the Irish over break. In 36 holes of golf, Arm­strong shot a six-over par 148 and finished 11 strokes behind the tournament winner Stepha­nie Meadow of Alabama. 
For their second tournament of the spring season, the Irish will compete in the LSU Tiger Classic this weekend in Baton Rouge, La., at the University Club of Baton Rouge. Following that tournament, the Irish will travel to Mesa, Ariz. for the Clo­ver Cup on March 16 at Longbow Golf Club. 
Senior Katie Allare will be making a homecoming of sorts when the team drops down in Mesa.  The Longbow Golf Club in Mesa is a mere 30 minutes from Xavier Prep in Phoenix, where Allare attended high school. 
However, the Irish are hoping the stormy weather predicted for Louisiana this weekend does not affect them as it did in South Carolina. In Baton Rouge, the skies do not look promising. For all three days, it is projected to rain with chances of precipita­tion hovering around 50 percent. 
The Irish look to have a valu­able spring break and come back to campus improved as they compete in the LSU Tiger Classic and the Clover Cup. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


ND SOFTBALL 

Irish anticipate tough competition 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will face a dif­ficult break as they head to California to play nine games in just eight days. 
Senior outfielder Alexa Maldonado said keeping fo­cused in the warm and sunny state will be a challenge. 
“We look at it as sort of a business trip,” Maldonado said. “Although we are on break, the fact of the mat­ter is that we are there to do one thing — to win games. From the time we wake up to the time the games for the day are over, we focus on the games.” 
Notre Dame (7-6) faces its first competition Saturday in Lakewood, Calif. when it takes on Oregon State (17-5) to open the Long Beach State Invite. The Irish will also play Charleston Southern (10-7) and UNLV (9-10) in the tournament. 
Maldonado said a major draw to the difficult week is the caliber of competition against Loyola Marymount (13-9) on Tuesday. Finally, the Irish will round out their 


that the Irish will be fac­ing. 
“I am most excited to play great competition,” Ma ldonado said. “We play a lot of teams that are ranked nationa l ly, so it will be great to see where our team is at.” 

“We play a lot of teams that are ranked nationally, so it will be great to see where our team is at.” 
Alexa Maldonado 
senior outfielder 
weekend with five games in Fullteron, Calif. Nota­ble competi­tion includes Michig an (15-5) and Arizona State (21-2). 
“The team goals for the break are to play the best softball ev­ery game,” Ma ldonado 

After the Long Beach State said. “We need to start get-Invite, the Irish will travel ting on a roll and take it to to Los Angeles for a contest the rest of the season.” 
So far this season, the Irish have struggled with consis­tency. Maldonado said the team focused primarily on minimizing errors during this week’s practices. 
Maldonado said she wants to be a leader to the younger girls on her team during the long stretch of games. 
“My personal expectations are to be a great spark for this team both offensively and defensively,” Maldonado said. “I want my teammates to feed off my intensity.” 
The Irish will begin their week Saturday in Lakewood, Calif., against Oregon State at 2 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Senior captains lead Belles in season opener 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s will look to start their season off strong when they travel to Florida next week to take on a slew of opponents. 
Taking on 10 different teams in just five days, Belles coach 
Erin Sulli­van believes the trip will be the per­fect way for the team to start the season. 
“This spring trip will give us a good chance to iron out some little things we need to work on, for the team to accomplish. 
“We should have a very strong and competitive team this year,” Sullivan said. “We’re aiming to get back to our conference tour­nament, which means finishing in the top four of our conference. We also would like to finish with 20-plus wins, and to send our 
senior class out 
with a bang.” 
Sullivan be­

“The spring trip will lieves her six give us a good chance seniors will to iron out some little play a very things we need to work large role for 
the team this 

on, and should be the 
year, and will 

perfect preparation 
need to succeed 

for conference play.” 
for the team to be successful as Erin Sullivan a whole. Belles coach “Our three 
and should be the perfect prepa­ration for conference play,” Sulli­van said. “[The trip] will give us a good chance to figure out the line-up hitting wise, as well as figure out our pitching rotation.” 
South Bend’s winter has not been kind to the Belles, Sullivan said. 
“We’ve only been able to get outside to practice in the last cou­ple of days,” Sullivan said. “Most of our practice has had to be in­doors. The games will give us a good chance to play outside and get used to the elements again. It will be interesting to see how the players step up and deal with the diversity [of the weather.]” 
Sullivan believes the spring trip could be the start of a great season for Saint Mary’s, having set lofty expectations and goals senior cap­
tains, Lauren 
Enayati, Kate Mitchell and Kristen Nelson are all great players and great lead­ers,” Sullivan said. “They do a lot of great things off of the field and each has different strengths. We also have three other seniors on our team who are great leaders, without any of them we wouldn’t win games. All are equal parts to our team. 
“Everyone is really excited and expecting to do well this season. The players think they are a great team, [on which] everyone is equally important. They really feel and believe they can have a great season this year.” 
Saint Mary’s starts off its spring trip and its season Sunday in Fort Myers, Fla. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Divers show their skills at national championship 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Nearly one month after captur­ing the Big East title, the Notre Dame diving team will set out to win on a national stage. The Irish will send four divers to the NCAA Zone Diving championship this weekend in a meet featuring the toughest competition in the re­gion. 
Irish diving coach Caiming Xie was named Big East Diving Coach of the Year, while freshman Nick Nemetz earned Big East Diver of the Year honors Feb. 12. 
Nemetz said all of the Big East title celebrations have ended, but he would love to be able to cele­brate once more, this time in front of the top divers in the area. 
“[Winning the Big East Cham­pionship] was a great feeling,” he said. “It was another thing I didn’t expect to do, but I felt great. I felt like I worked hard this year and learned a lot and improved.” 
Nemetz, junior Ryan Koter and freshmen Michael Kreft and Ted Wagner will travel to Indiana to compete for the Irish. To qualify, a diver must record a score of at least 300 on the one-meter board or a score of at least 320 on the three-meter board at any point during the season. 
Koter — who has qualified for the third time in as many years 
— has offered advice to the trio of Irish freshmen making the trip, Wagner said. 
“We’re going into zones with three freshmen, which is not that much experience, but it should be a great meet,” Wagner said. “I think everyone should do pretty well.” 
Indiana will host competition in Zone C, which features several schools including Notre Dame and Ohio State. 
Nemetz said he does not quite know what to expect in his first trip to the Zone competition. 
“There’s a lot of good divers at this meet,” Nemetz said. “There are a bunch of Big Ten schools that have really good divers, whose best scores are a lot better than mine. I don’t care what place I get. I don’t have any top-placing goals or anything like that. I am looking forward to having a fun time, and I’m going to dive my best.” 
The Irish will begin competi­tion in the NCAA Zone Diving championship Friday in Bloom­ington, Ind. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde1@saintmarys.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Belles reunite for Spring Kick-off 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
After a fall season that left Saint Mary’s with a shortage of golfers due to study abroad opportunities, a reunited and rejuvenated Belles team will start its spring golf season in Phoenix, Ariz., next weekend. 
While many golfers are just starting to get back into a rhythm with their swings, Belles coach Kevin Hamilton said the team’s main long­term goal for the season has already been set. 
“By the end of May we would like to be ranked in the top 10 and have won our confer­ence’s [automatic qualifying] bid to play in the NCAA cham­pionship,” Hamilton said. 
Saint Mary’s has made the NCAA tournament six times in its history and won four conference championships since 2002. 
The Belles will spend their break differently than most students, as they open up their spring season with a trip to play in the Spring Kick-Off at Westbrook Country Club in Ari­zona. While it is their first com­petition of the season, it is also the only chance the Belles will 
have to play competitively until April. Hamilton said the team is looking for­ward to finally converting hard work into results. 
“It has been a long time since some of our play­ers have seen competition from those two early on. 
“I expect those two to be con­sistently low scorers,” Hamilton said. “And the rest of the team to be close behind for the support 

“By the end of May we would like to be ranked in the top 10 and have won our conference’s [automatic qualifying] bid to play in the NCAA championship.” 
Kevin Hamilton Belles coach 
it takes to be a top 10 team in the nation.” 
Matuszak and Brown averaged 82.8 and 84.9 strokes per round, respec­tively. Another key piece to the team is sophomore Doyle O’Brien, who only played in one 
because of studying abroad,” Hamilton said. “We need to get them and the rest of the team up to speed and implement some of the swing adjustments we have made indoors this winter.” 
Senior captains Natalie Mutas­zak and Christine Brown came off a strong fall campaign, and Hamilton said the team will look for consistency and leadership tournament during the fall, but shot scores of 83 and 81 in her two rounds. 
The Belles will start their sea­son hoping to catch fire, as they travel to hot and sunny Phoenix, Ariz., for the Spring Kick-Off tournament starting March 16. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 


ND WOMENS TENNIS 

Notre Dame faces ranked opponents in Honolulu 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
The No. 21 Irish head to Ha­waii for a week of warm weath­er, a transition from indoor to outdoor play and three tough matches as Notre Dame takes on No. 20 Texas Tech, No. 52 Hawaii and No. 62 Wyoming in the Aloha State over spring break. 
For the Irish (9-4, 1-0 Big East), the Hawaii trip is one that occurs just once in four years. Senior co-captain and reigning Big East Player of the Week Shannon Mathews said it is particularly exciting for her and senior co-captain Kristy Frilling to experience the trip in their final year. 
“We do this trip every four years, so each girl on the ten­nis team will go once in her four years,” she said. “So it’s kind of a cool experience so for Kristy and I. This is our first time and it’s cool to get to do it as seniors. It should be re­ally, really fun. Neither of us has been there before, so we’re excited.” 
The team will depart early Saturday morning and return the following Saturday. While Irish coach Jay Louderback has mentioned some exciting jaunts like whale watching and hiking in years past, Mathews said Louderback has a few dif­ferent things in the works for the team this week. 
“[Coach Louderback] was saying yesterday that he’s been in contact with the president of the Notre Dame club of Hawaii, so they get pretty excited,” she said. “I think we’re going to do a luau one of the nights, and then there is a Notre Dame alum who is a naval officer in Hawaii who may possibly give us a private tour of Pearl Har­bor. We’re still in the midst of figuring out if we do that. We’ll probably see Pearl Harbor any­way, but it would be really cool to have a sneak peak and tour from a Notre Dame alum as well.” 
This will be Notre Dame’s first contest of the spring sea­son on outdoor courts, and though it will certainly be a transition, Mathews said it is one the Irish are excited for. 
“I think it’s going to be tough because these will be our first matches outdoors,” the senior said. “It’s always an adjust­ment coming from playing in­doors and then going on spring break and playing outside, but we always love it. We love play­ing outside. We get sick of cold weather and being cooped up in South Bend, so we kind of get really excited to go somewhere warm, especially Hawaii.” 
Aside from sightseeing and enjoying the weather, the Irish are focused on their oppo­nents at hand. Mathews said one team in particular that will pose a challenge is No. 20 Texas Tech — the Red Raiders (9-2, 1-0 Big 12) jumped past Notre Dame in the rankings this week after beating No. 11 Baylor. Additionally, the match will have a little bit of familial competition, Mathews said. 
“We know that Texas Tech has come off a good win against Baylor and are ranked one ahead of us right now so I think that will be a tough match for us,” she said. “Also [sophomore Britney Sanders] has a twin sister, [sophomore Nikki Sand­ers], on the Texas Tech team so that will be fun for them to see each other but obviously to play against her will be a little bit unique for both of them.” 


Also on the slate for the week are Hawaii (5-4) — where the Irish will be playing all three matches — and Wyoming (7-4). 
Despite losing to No. 3 Duke last weekend, the Irish shut out Iowa and was able to claim the doubles point in both, giv­ing them four straight doubles points. After an early spring season that saw the Irish floun­dering the doubles point more often than not, the consistency was what Louderback said he had expected from his team all along. 
Mathews said the team is looking to build on last week-
SMC TENNIS 

Belles head to Disney for spring break 
By ISAAC LORTON “I think the heat and humid-them the past two years, but Sports Writer ity and the two-a-days can defi-lost both times,” Campbell said. nitely affect the girls,” Campbell “I hope this year it will turn out 
With Mickey Mouse ears said. “But we are in good shape. differently.” and bathing suits in tow, Saint We have worked hard on our The Belles are not looking to Mary’s is heading to Orlando, conditioning and worked with make any roster changes in the Fla. for its annual spring break the strength training coach put-matches over break, but hope to training trip. The Belles (2-1) ting an emphasis on our legs get all of the players into a few will compete in six matches and agility.” matches. starting March 11 and ending Coming off two convincing “We want some of the girls March 15. victories against Olivet and Indi-who are not in the top five to 
“We have gone down to Or-ana Tech, the Belles look to car-see some match play,” Campbell lando for the ry momen-said. “It will definitely be valu­past four years tum into the able to all of us.” to compete,” six match-The trip will not be an entire-Belles coach es. Camp-ly serious one for Saint Mary’s, Dale Campbell “Playing this many bell said though. said. “It has the team “We will be visiting Cocoa 
matches will help us see 
been a great will ben-Beach one day and hopefully 
some trends in our game 
trip in many efit greatly make it to Disney on another,” 
which we can build off 
aspects.” from the Campbell said. “This will be a 
of and improve upon.” 
The Belles numerous good way for the girls to take a will be expe-matches in break.” riencing a dif-Dale Campbell a condensed Campbell said he thinks the ferent environ-Belles coach timeframe. trip will help build team chem­ment during “Playing istry. this week of this many “I think spending eight days competition. matches will together and just hanging out 
“We are help us see will improve our team’s un­pretty excited to go to warmer some trends in our game which derstanding of each other and weather and get some sun,” we can build off of and improve our communication,” Campbell Campbell said. “It will be nice upon,” Campbell said. “A lot said. “The improved communi­to have some outside matches of match play will allow this cation will help us — especially since ours have only been inside young team to be more comfort-in doubles.” so far this year.” able when they come back from The Belles leave campus Fri-
On Saturday and Thursday, break.” day and begin matches Satur­the Belles will have a day with Saint Mary’s goes with a chip day in Orlando, Fla. two matches and the weather on its shoulder, looking to beat will also be a factor in their St. Scholastica of Duluth, Minn. Contact Isacc Lorton at games. “We have fought hard against ilorton@nd.edu 
end’s success and carry it over to this week. 
“Last weekend we played two good teams, both of them with three really solid doubles teams, so being able to win the doubles point against Iowa as well as Duke was a really great improvement for us,” she said. “We’ve been working really hard on our doubles play and improving that throughout the season. It’s great momentum to have going into the singles play so we’re going to keep it up and keep working hard to be able to win that doubles point because it makes it so much easier only having to win three singles matches instead of four.” 
Overall, Mathews said the Irish are looking forward to competition and leisure alike. 
“They are going to be three tough matches for us so we’re going there ready to compete, working hard throughout the week, but also enjoying Hawaii at the same time,” she said. 
Notre Dame will take on Tex­as Tech on Monday, Hawaii on Wednesday and Wyoming on Thursday, all in Honolulu. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
LSU 
continued from page 20 
we’ve been able to come and hopefully come out with a cou­ple of wins.” 
After playing their second game against Michigan on Sunday, the Irish will get right back on the field for an evening showdown with the tourna­ment hosts, No. 13 LSU. The Tigers (11-2) are a perennial Rouge on Monday, the Irish will head to Wolff Stadium in San Antonio, Texas to host the Irish Baseball Classic. Co­sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of San Antonio, the Clas­sic has become an early season tradition for the Irish, who will host Houston Baptist, Kansas, Indiana State and Texas-San Antonio in this year’s edition. 
With a high level of competi­
tion, Aoki said it will take an impressive showing to win the Clas­sic’s champi­onship game 

p owerhou s e in college baseball, and this year is  “I think they’re all very competitive baseball teams.”  March 18. “I think they’re all very com- 
noIn   different. addition  Mik Aoki  petitive base­ball teams,”  
to LSU’s no- Irish coach  he said. “So  
torious home  I  think  it’s  
field  advan­ one of those  
tage, the Irish  things  where  
will also have  we don’t have  
to deal with  a lot of mar- 

the reigning national player of gin for error — I think we have the week, junior first baseman more margin for error than we Mason Katz. did a year ago — but the bot­
“[LSU] is a few years re-tom line is that in order for us moved from a national champi-to have success, in order for us onship,” Aoki said. “They have to win, we have to be playing a phenomenal atmosphere in at or near the top of our game which to play…I think five or in order to do it, regardless of six years running now they’ve who the opponent is.” led the country in attendance. The Irish will begin their I think they’ve had a stadium whirlwind break Saturday which is arguably the best col-against Michigan. First pitch lege baseball facility in the will be thrown at 11 a.m. country, and they get really good players, and good players Contact Jack Hefferon at play really well, you know?” wheffero@nd.edu and Vicky 
After finishing up in Baton Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
Ivy 
continued from page 20 
and even the third game was a bus trip, which is pretty easy, honestly … The main thing that we are going to be aware of is our focus — make sure that our girls are able to focus on us.” 
In their most recent outing, the Irish outscored Ohio State (5-1) by a score of 16-7 in a game that brought a career-day for junior goaltender El­lie Hilling. Hilling notched 16 saves and earned the Big East Defensive Player of the Week award on Monday. 
“I think it is a total team ef­fort,” Halfpenny said. “Our de­fense is doing its job in front of Ellie, giving her looks that are high percentage saves, and that is important. That does not take away from some of the saves she was making at point blank range, because … she was making some major momentum-swinging saves as well.” 
As they prepare to face BU (1­3), the Irish will have to figure out how to score on the Terri­ers’ sophomore goalkeeper Christina Sheridan, who re­corded two career high saves in the past week. The Terriers are a familiar opponent both for the Irish and Halfpenny, who coached against BU during her time at William and Mary. 
“There is familiarity because we have played them before, which is always nice, but they are a new team,” Halfpenny said. “Each team has gradu­ated quite a bit, they certainly are very, very aggressive … 

they have athleticism in the midfield, they are very, very well coached, so we will be looking forward to a very spir­ited game. “ 
Following their Saturday tilt with Boston, the Irish will face Yale (2-1) in Delray Beach, Fla., on Tuesday and Cornell (3-0) in Orlando, Fla., on March 17. Both teams already have ex­perience this season facing ranked opponents — Yale fell to No. 9 Dartmouth 9-8 Saturday and Cornell scrimmaged No. 14 Penn State on Feb. 9. 
While the Irish look forward to traveling during spring break, the players will have devote extra energy to main­taining focus come game time, Halfpenny said. 
“While it is a great spring trip, it is also a business trip for us, and a very important one in this stretch, as well,” she said. “Let’s be present when we are there, let’s really have fun when we are together and con­tinue to improve on our game.” 
One area in particular that the Irish will try to improve is the draw-control game. Against Ohio State, Notre Dame cor­ralled only nine draw-controls compared to the Buckeyes’ 15. 
“We have really been focus­ing on the draw. That is an area that we have been picking apart because … we weren’t winning that battle against our opponent and we haven’t done that yet.” 
The Irish will begin their three-game road trip Saturday when they face off with Boston at 3 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
Maday 
continued from page 20 
full of confidence and full of energy. Going into the second round, I just think you’re going to see more of that.” 
Though Summerhays and ju­nior goalie Mike Johnson have split time much of the season, the sophomore has command­ed playing time with three of the last four starts, including two shutouts. Though Sum­merhays will face a tough test from the Wolverine attack, Irish coach Jeff Jackson said he hopes his goalie will con­tinue his strong play. 
“Steven’s last three games, he’s played consistently well,” Jackson said. “But consistency is not just a two or three-game thing. This weekend we’re go­ing to play a goalie [Michigan senior goalie Shawn Hunwick] that plays well every night. But, Steven has played well here the last few games, and we hope we can continue to have that kind of goaltending.” 
Notre Dame’s biggest obsta­cle in beating the Wolverines (21-11-4, 15-9-4-1) and reach­ing Joe Louis Arena is likely Hunwick, a 5-foot-7 former walk-on who is undisputedly one of the nations top goalten­ders. Hunwick has performed well against the Irish in the past and Maday said the team will need to get physical to overcome the netminder. 
“Over the past couple years, I’ve seen a lot of Hunwick, probably too much” Maday said. “Recently, he’s gotten the best of us. I think we need to create traffic. He’s not the biggest goalie in net, so if we create traffic I think we can have success. Aside from that, I think if we can get the puck up and shoot it high, upstairs, I think that might be our best shot.” 


The underwhelming record for the Irish in the regular season means the team will play the second-round series in the unfavorable environ­ment of Yost Arena. Jackson emphasized the need for the Irish to play well early in the first period to neutralize the effects of the crowd. 
“We have to play smart in the first period against Michi­gan, especially in the first 10 minutes, because they’re all amped up, the crowd gets go­ing, and they’re very explosive in that first 10 minutes,” Jack­son said. “We have to make sure that we are composed. We have to take care of the puck and stay out of the pen­alty box, plain and simple.” 
The puck will drop on Fri­day, Saturday and Sunday — if necessary — at 7:35 p.m. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
Hofstra 
continued from page 20 
fense because they know they can work longer into posses­sions. As a defense, we know that it’s harder to play two to three [straight] minutes of de­fense,” he said. “If our offense doesn’t have to press for goals, they can be more methodical. If we’re not down by many goals, it allows our offense to be more effective.” 
Hofstra, who scores 8.25 goals per game, has faced three ranked opponents thus far, defeating Harvard and falling to both Princeton and Fairfield. Randall said Notre Dame is preparing for Hofstra just like it would for any team in the league. 
“Every week we watch film of our most recent game, and we find little areas that we can fine-tune,” he said. “There were a few small plays at the end of the Drexel game and un­settled defense that we need to work on, so hopefully we can have those areas [improved] for the next game.” 
With upcoming matchups against No. 13 Denver and No. 20 Ohio State, Notre Dame is approaching a daunting stretch on its schedule. 
Randall said the Irish cannot afford to overlook a talented Hofstra squad. 
“Every week we have the same approach,” he said. “It starts with playing consistent defense and playing strong in our running game. Then that transitions into playing ef­fective offense. We try to play within ourselves and keep the game plan that the coaches es­tablish.” 
The Irish will face Hofstra on Saturday at James M. Shua­rt Stadium in Hempstead, N.Y. at 3 p.m. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde1@saintmarys.edu 


much all or nothing. I remem-going to have to run super fo-
Big East 

ber the other times I went, it cused and not be overwhelmed. was pretty stressful, being a It is just going to be a huge step continued from page 20 newcomer to nationals and you up in environment, from when are racing guys who have been we qualified at Alex Wilson, Babb (800-meter) and junior there multiple but that be-Jeremy Rae (1,600-meter), is times. Defi-ing said ... we also preparing for the meet. nitely, now I realize what “We come from three differ-feel experi-“[The relay] creates we did last ent training groups ... so it is enced.” that much bigger of an year ... going pretty unique because three This year’s environment, our whole forward, we separate training groups all relay team team gets so excited for are definitely competing on the same team,” qualified for looking for-
the relay because we are 
Babb said. “It creates that the NCAA ward to do-
a pretty diverse group. ” 
much bigger of an environ-c h a m p io n -ing something ment, our whole team gets so ships less bigger and 
Randall Babb 
excited for the relay because than a week better.” we are a pretty diverse group.” ago at the senior While most 
At last year’s NCAA Indoor Alex Wilson of the Irish championships, the Irish men’s Invitational. athletes are distance medley relay team The group ran already gear-placed fourth with a combined a school-record time of 9:29.72 ing up for the outdoor season, time of 9:30.16 and received and automatically qualified which kicks off March 22 at the All-American honors. Shawel for the NCAA Indoor champi-Alabama Relays, the few who and Rae both participated on onships. The Irish will hope qualified for the NCAA’s turn last year’s medley team, but to maintain the momentum their attention to an indoor Giesting and Babb are first gained from their recent per-meet one last time. time competitors at the NCAA formance as they attempt to Notre Dame’s representa­championship level. improve on last year’s fourth tives will compete for a title 
“It is definitely different,” place finish at the national Friday and Saturday in Nam-Shawel said. “This is third time meet. pa, Idaho. I have been there and it is defi-“It is going to take firing on nitely going to be the last time all cylinders, that is for sure,” Contact Joseph Monardo at I go for indoors, so it is pretty Babb said. “Everyone is just jmonardo@nd.edu 
WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



JONATHAN REPINE 
HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE
EXPND 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, March 8, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
HOCKEY 

Hostile takeover 
No. 17 Notre Dame heads to Ann Arbor to face rival No. 4 Michigan 

By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The next chapter in a grow­ing postseason rivalry be­tween No. 17 Notre Dame and No. 4 Michigan will be writ­ten this weekend as the Irish travel to hostile Yost Arena to take on the Wolverines in the second round of the CCHA tournament. 
The two schools have fac­tored heavily in recent CCHA tournaments, winning five of the last seven championships dating back to 2005. The win­ner of this weekend’s three-game set will head to Joe Louis Arena in Detroit next weekend to play for the CCHA crown. Despite struggling through much of the second half of the season, the Irish (19-16-3, 12-13-3-0 CCHA) dominated Ohio State in a first-round sweep last weekend. Sopho­more goalie Steven Summer-hays posted two strong per­formances between the pipes and senior center Billy Ma-day scored three goals on the weekend to lead Notre Dame to 2-0 and 4-2 wins. Maday said the team has completely put the late-season slide be­hind it. 

“Before, I had said we took a lot of positives from the Mich­igan State weekend [Feb. 24­
25] and I think that continued into Ohio State weekend. The slump that we had is pretty much forgotten, the playoffs are a brand new season,” he said. “This is a new team, 
see MADAY/page 18 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Relay leads team to Big East championships 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Six athletes will represent Notre Dame at the NCAA Indoor Championships in Nampa, Idaho this weekend, bringing the first portion of the season to a close. 
Following roughly three months of competition, the indoor season will conclude with the national meet, af­ter which the outdoor season will begin. 
Senior pole-vaulter Kev­in Schipper, who jumped a personal best height of 5.40 meters his last time out, and senior multi-eventer Maddie Buttinger will represent Notre Dame in Idaho. Schipper is a five-time Big East champion pole-vaulter, and Buttinger placed second in the pen­tathlon at the Big East Indoor championships Feb. 19. 
The men’s distance medley relay team, comprised of senior Johnathan Shawel (1,200-me­ter), freshman Chris Giesting (400-meter), senior Randall 
see BIG EAST/page 18 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Notre Dame aims to stay undefeated on trip 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a convincing win over then-No. 10 Ohio State, No. 7 Notre Dame will attempt to double its win total over spring break and extend its perfect start to six games. 
The Irish (3-0) will head to Massachusetts to face Boston University on Saturday before traveling to Florida for show­downs with Ivy League mem­bers Yale and Cornell. After beginning their season with two home games and a trip to Ohio Stadium, the Irish will experi­ence their first true road tests over the three-game stretch. 
“I think the big thing right now that we have obviously looked at is that our first three-game swing is a lot different than our second three-game swing,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said. “Obviously we had that comfort at home for the first two games, 
see IVY/page 18 
BASEBALL 

Irish prepare for tough week in Baton Rouge 
By JACK HEFFERON and VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writers 
For most Notre Dame stu­dents, spring break is a time to head for warmer weather to rest and recharge. The Irish will indeed be heading south for break, but with nine tough games scheduled in as many days, it might not be a vacation. 
Notre Dame (5-4) will hope the change of scenery will bring a change in its play as well, as the team was swept and held scoreless in three games at Texas State last weekend. In addition to their struggle to produce runs, the Irish have had trouble settling in in the field as well, register­ing 17 errors in their first nine games. 
But while the team’s fielding numbers might be unsettling, Irish coach Mik Aoki said he thinks the defense will im­prove with time. 
“I think a lot of it is just get­ting repetitions,” Aoki said. “I think the problem is that our errors have come in bunches, and so that first weekend we had nine errors in that one game against Purdue…so they seem to come in bunches and hopefully we can kind of iron that out, but I think the way to fix it is to get out there and get better and develop.” 
Notre Dame will kick off its marathon break Saturday, with two games against rival Michigan at the LSU Baseball Tournament in Baton Rouge, La. The Wolverines (6-6) are another team trying to re­bound after losing four of their last five, but Aoki and the Irish expect a stiff challenge none­theless. 
“I think they’re similar to us in that they’re trying to get their program headed back in the right direction,” Aoki said. “I think it’ll be a nice little series, but we’ll have to play well and I think that it’ll be a measuring stick to see how far 
see LSU/page 17 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Hofstra presents new challenges 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
No. 7 Notre Dame contin­ues its road trip as it travels to No. 19 Hofstra on Sat­urday in search of its first winning streak of the sea­son. 
Irish senior attack Sean Rogers garnered Big East Offensive Player of the Week honors following his game-winning goal in Notre Dame’s 6-5 comeback win at Drexel last weekend. Se­nior defenseman and co-captain Kevin Randall also earned Big East honors for his performance in the 6-5 Irish victory. 
The matchup between the Irish (2-1) and the Pride (2­
2) will be a first for every­one on Notre Dame’s ros­ter. Hofstra’s style of play, Randall said, is similar to Drexel’s and could pose a problem to Notre Dame. 
“It’s interesting to learn about a new team for once. We’ve been playing the same teams over and over,” he said. “[Hofstra] presents a lot of unique challenges that we’ll have to defend against. They have had a lot of Cana­dians for the past few years. [The Canadian] style of play is pretty unique, and that’s transferred into this year.” 


The Irish rank first in the na­tion in scoring defense, allow­ing just four goals per game, 
2.25 goals better than the next best team. Hofstra allows 9.25 
goals per game — more than double Notre Dame’s average. 
Randall said the defense works to limit its opponent’s scoring opportunities, ulti­mately allowing the Irish to be patient on the offensive side of the ball. 
“It definitely helps the of-
see HOFSTRA/page 18 





