The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 38 | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
center promotes peace corps 
By BENJAMIN HORVATH 
news writer 
on wednesday evening, the center for social con­cerns connected students with current and former peace corps volunteers, in­cluding seven current vol­unteers who skyped into the conversation from around the world. 
notre dame graduate Tim durigan, who is currently serving in the dominican republic, shared his thoughts on service through video chat to the group gathered in geddes hall. he said the commitment to the peace crops can be daunting and some new vol­unteers may be naïve when first joining. 
“Things are hard and are what they are for a reason,” durigan said. “you can only do so much, and none of the problems are easy to solve.” 
2011 graduate clare broshinan is currently serv­ing in rwanda and said her time at notre dame helped prepare for her service to the peace corps. 
“i knew i wanted to do post-graduate service, but was not sure what,” broshinan said. “i was a political science and peace studies major, so when i looked at the peace corps, it was a good fit.” 
notre dame graduate roger parent said his ser­vice in Thailand was “one of the greatest experiences of his life.”“i knew i wanted to have adventure, leave the country and help people, but there were not as many opportunities to do that back then,” parent said. 
parent said the peace corps was not as organized when he first joined, and 
see corps PAGE 7 


Fans gear up for ‘GameDay’ 
Leprechaun Legion to camp out, make signs for ESPN broadcast 

By TORI ROECK 
news writer 
students will showcase their dedication to notre dame football on national televi­sion saturday during filming of espn’s “college gameday.” a pit for 200 students will be lo­cated near the commentators, and many fans will camp out the night before to ensure a spot in the crowd. 
senior kristen stoutenburgh, executive vice president of leprechaun legion, said the group wants as many students as possible to come to the filming. 
“we want the nation to know that the legion is the best student section in the country and we’re supporting our team 100 percent,” stoutenburgh said. “we want a legion green invasion for ‘gameday,’ so we want students to come early and wear their green legion gear.” 
leprechaun legion will 
see show PAGE 6 


pink game to benefit charity 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
news editor 
The fighting irish football team will don its traditional blue and gold uniforms when it faces stanford at notre dame stadium on saturday, but players will add a bold color to their game day look: pink. 
during the annual pink game, sponsored by the kelly cares foundation (kcf) in honor of national breast cancer awareness month, players and coaches will accessorize with pink wristbands, shoelaces and other items to show their sup­port for both the foundation and breast cancer awareness in gen­eral, kcf executive director lisa klunder said. 
see kelly PAGE 7 



grant supports music program 

By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news writer 
artists in notre dame’s sacred music program re­ceived a $400,000 grant from the andrew w. mellon foundation, which will im­mediately be used to fund innovative interdisciplinary projects. 
carmen helena Tellez, pro­fessor of conducting in the department of music and concurrent professor of sa­cred music in the department of Theology, will serve as the principal investigator and pro­ducer of the project as a whole. 
“The grant will fund the in­vestigation and production of three interdisciplinary works that will join faculty and stu­dents in examining important humanities topics through innovative performance and audience interaction,” Tellez said. “we have labeled it the mellon sacred music drama project because all civiliza­tions have had a form of music drama where the great con­cerns of the society — espe­cially religious ideas — would be experienced through an enacted performance.” 
Tellez said exploring the relationship between the hu­manities and the arts is a key component of the project. 
“an interdisciplinary work is one that marries many arts, but also possibly the humani­ties, science, and digital tech­nologies,” Tellez said. “i see it more like a true resonance between languages and meth­odologies, not only a mere combination of arts on a stage. There is always a message and a reflection — one can say that liturgy is one of the earliest forms of interdisciplinary art.” 
The sacred music program at notre dame currently has 15 students pursuing masters 
see music PAGE 7 


mission To africa PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 10 sTory TiTle PAGE 12 hockey preview PAGE 24 men’s soccer PAGE 24 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What are you most looking forward to about fall break? 

Caroline Proulx 
senior le mans hall 
“baking.” 

Peter Nguyen 
freshman 
stanford hall 
“no roommate.” 

Kevin Wern 
junior off campus 
“seeing friends and going to nyc.” 



Mary Simons 
sophomore 
lyons hall 

“seeing the dalai lama.” 

Mary Kate Vicenzi 
freshman pasquerilla west hall 
“baking.” 


Steve Gilcrest 
sophomore knott hall 
“sleeping.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Tori roeck Joseph monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
nicole michels cory bernard rebecca o’neil conor kelly 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
brandon keelean maría fernández 
Photo Viewpoint 

“There is No Such Right to Life Scholar Series Mass “Scholarly Research 
mackenzie sain amber galik 

Thing as a Secular Information Table Snite Museum Basilica of the Sacred Service Almetrics” Society” LaFortune 12 p.m.-1 p.m. Heart Hesburgh Library Hesburgh Library 3 p.m.-6 p.m. The history 10 a.m.-11 a.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 
Corrections 

5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Part of Respect Life of campaign Presentation by Plum 
The observer regards itself as Free Admission. Week. commercials. Analytics. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Concert: Men’s and Women’s Football Game Learn to Curl Work Off Your 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
ensembleND Swimming: Dennis Notre Dame Stadium Compton Family Ice Weekend 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Performing Stark Relays 3:30 p.m.-7 p.m. Arena Rolfs Sports 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Arts Center Rolfs Aquatic Center Stanford vs. ND 5 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Recreation Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7 p.m.-8:45 p.m. 5 p.m.-8 p.m. $10 All day 
we can correct our error. 
Tickets $15-30 Free Admission. 



STUDENT SENATE 

Group plans for ‘GameDay,’ service 
By MADDIE DALY 
news writer 
The student senate looked ahead to a football weekend and a visit from “college gameday,” as well as plans to improve the quality of residential and campus life, during its weekly meeting wednesday. 
student body president brett rocheleau said he would share more logistical information with the student body in coming days so cam­pus could be prepared for the stanford game weekend events. 
“as you all know, ‘college gameday’ is coming on saturday,” rocheleau said. “everyone’s wondering about tailgating, camping out, etc. right now the administra­tion is looking for the best place to set up a line. i’ll get more details tonight and send out a report on every­thing gameday, what you can and cannot do.” 
hall presidents’ council co-chair matt lynch shared details from the leprechaun legion’s gameday plan. 
“There’s going to be a pit for 200 to 300 people in front of the stage,” lynch said. “They’re trying to make it all students, and it would be cool if we could get all 29 dorms to have their flags in there. posters are allowed too, and they want everyone to wear green.” 
before the game weekend begins, rocheleau reminded the senators about student government’s upcoming pre­sentation with the board of Trustees. 
“we present Thursday af­ternoon, and we’re basically talking about residence hall life like we’ve been discuss­ing,” rocheleau said. 

chief of staff katie baker mentioned a new addition to their presentation booklet. 
“we added pictures of ac­tual dorm rooms to show the discrepancies,” she said. “There are pictures of dou­bles from duncan hall and morrissey manor as well as a quad in pangborn hall.” 
with the addition of the group’s newest member, class of 2016 president hugh phelan, the group discussed four resolutions related to residential and campus life. 
director of community re­lations kelsey eckenrodge presented a resolution to di­rect future projects after a re­cent community summit. 
“basically, a couple of fridays ago, we had the city summit,” eckenrodge said. “we met in the morning and talked about concerns and ideas for improvement re­garding student-city inter­actions. we have created committees for specific proj­ects to help in these relations. we decided on eight projects to work on this semester.” 
after the group passed eckenrodge’s resolution con­cerning community relations committees, the director of university affairs michael masi also introduced two resolutions, both of which the group passed. The first resolution proposed the im­plementation of hydration stations in debartolo hall. 
“we passed a resolution very similar to this one al­ready for residence halls last semester,” masi said. “This one is just recommending that the university provide the funding and put them in debartolo hall.” 
when asked where the new hydration stations will be lo­cated, rocheleau responded the exact location has not been decided yet. 
“They want to keep it in a central location, but they don’t want a line to form where everyone’s walking in 

“There’s going to be a pit for 200 to 300 people in front of the stage ... They’re trying to make it all students, and it would be cool if we could get all 29 dorms to have their flags in there.” 
Matt Lynch                                           
co-chair 
Hall Presidents’ Council 
because that would just add congestion,” rocheleau said. “basically, they’re still work­ing on it.” 
masi’s second resolution addressed the issue of cam­pus aesthetics. 
“it came to my attention that statues around campus are looking old and dirty, so our goal has been to clean them up and restore them,” masi said. “we want to make them look like their original selves again to make campus look good.” 
masi said he has contacted the university architect’s of­fice and the snite museum after getting complaints from both students and alumni, and he has identified four statues on campus to restore. 
walsh hall senator veronica guerrero said she thinks money should be spent on higher priorities such as new buildings or resi­dence halls, but rocheleau said the money comes from a different budget. 

“all the money is allocated differently,” rocheleau said. “There are different groups. This is more land and making campus prettier while money for buildings comes mainly from donations. They’re very separate in the budgeting scheme.” 
duncan hall senator brendan bell announced a resolution for director of social concerns paul John 
digiovanni,  which  also  
passed.  
“The  subcommittee  for  
community  relations  has  

been working a lot with the south bend food banks and other organizations, and he thought it would be a good idea to look into cost-effec­tive and healthier ways for people with food stamps to eat,” bell said. “They’re look­ing to make a booklet with specific ideas for healthy eating, for good ways to eat healthy fruits and vegetables that they might now know how to work with.” 
rose clarified this booklet is meant to be a sort of recipe book to make sure families on food stamps can meet nu­tritional needs. 
“paul is hoping this booklet can be distributed to not only people in the community but also to students,” bell said. “people in the local commu­nity are really excited and want students to get involved with this.” 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 

senior belles eager for break 
By SARAH SWIDERSKI 
news writer 
as saint mary’s students com­plete a week full of midterms, papers and assignments, seniors look forward to relaxing during the final fall break of their college careers. 
senior kara Quillard said she plans to head home to needham, mass., a boston suburb. “[i’m ex­cited for] my mom’s cooking be­cause being a senior in opus, i don’t have a meal plan,” she said. “so i have to cook my own food that i don’t know how to cook, and mac and cheese is getting old.” 
Quillard said she and her friends from home have planned activi­ties to make up for not going on vacation. 
“me and some of my girlfriends are going to have some spa days because we aren’t going any­where [for break], and we want to have the illusion that we are going somewhere,” she said. 
senior sidney corso said she looks forward to outdoor activities at her family’s farm just outside chicago. 
“i’ll be getting a little adventur­ous and going to a shooting range and doing some off-roading just to enjoy the fall weather,” she said. 
corso also said she and fellow student Joy Johnston will attend a Josh abbott concert.Johnston said she is looking forward to spending time with family members. 
“i’m going to my little brother’s parents’ weekend [at The citadel in charleston, s.c.] and enjoying the warm weather there,” she said. 
many students will also remain in the south bend area. senior courtney iversen said she will stu­dent teach in south bend and also visit chicago as a “mini-vacation.” 
“i’ve never been to the [millennium park] ‘bean,’ so that would be fun,” she said. cross-country runnerdannihaydell will participate in a meet in wisconsin over the weekend, in addition to training on campus during the week. “we are turning it [the meet in wisconsin] into a weekend-long thing, so it will be fun to hang out with the team,” she said. aside from training and competing, the team will also  participate in sev­eral community service events, haydell saie, including a pick-up effort in the south bend area. 
but the team will also find time for leisure, haydell said. 
“we have a surprise event on Thursday that our coach won’t tell us about, so that should be fun,” she said.” 
Contact Sarah Swiderski at ss­wide01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Faith-based ministry aids African communities 
The discussion titled, “To be 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 

news writer called is to be sent: being church 
in africa and its implication in 

despite stress over midterm the u.s.” was sponsored by the exams, fall break plan, and center for social concerns and the upcoming football game the africa working group of the against stanfore, some mem-kellogg institute. bers of the notre dame com-The discussion featured munity made time for the lunch guest speakers fr. Joe healey, and reflection about the role of maryknoll priest and net-missionaries in africa in the working coordinator of the geddes hall coffee house on small christian communities wednesday. global collaborative, and 
paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 


Tara mckinney, a 2000 notre dame graduate, who worked in Tanzania as a maryknoll lay missionary. mckinney is cur­rently the international proj­ects officer for africa for cross catholic outreach, a faith-based organization supporting christian development projects in africa, asia, latin america, and the caribbean. 
mckinney said her belief in the importance of faith-based development drew her to work first as a lay missionary and now as an international projects officer. 
“for me the mission of the church is manifest in faith-based development,” she said. “faith plays a role in develop­ment, because it’s not just about building the house, it’s about how you are present for those people.” 
healey said faith-based de­velopment is distinct and more beneficial to its recipients than development efforts without a religious element. 
“you widen the meaning of development,” he said “it’s not just economic development. it’s holistic development.” 
another reason missionary work is important, mckinney said, is the governments of the respective nations are often re­mote from the particular com­munities and do not provide the enduring presence of faith-based groups. 
“They’ll tell you, ‘The church is the only one who stays,’” she said. 


healey has worked in africa for over four decades and said heeis still learning about the african way of life. 
“i’ve been in africa since 1968 and i am a student, a learner of african culture,” healey said. “my teachers are the african people.” 
healey said one of the main things he has learned from his work in africa is the importance of lay people in a christian community. 
“There are about 120,000 small christian communities across nine african countries and in these communities the lay people are the leader ,” he said. “The african lay people teach me what it means to be a community.” 
in her role at cross catholic outreach, mckinney said she she administers cash grants to ministers on the ground in africa and provides them with technical assistance. she over­sees 45 projects, 41 of them catholic, and the largest reach­es up to 7,000 beneficiaries. 
mckinney said she witnessed the same concept of lay leader­ship in at least six countries. 
“i started seeing and hearing certain trends across the differ­ent countries,” she said. “The main trend was new models of leadership. it shows the priest does not have to be the one in charge.” 
she pointed out the ewuaso kedong baraka catholic kindergarten in kenya as an ex­ample. The idea for the school came from a group of maasai mothers and was built with help from cross catholic outreach, she said. 
healey said the lay involve­ment in many african com­munities parallels a trend in missionary work toward temporary missions and lay missionaries. 
“we’re now in the wave of short term missionaries, and at the same time there’s a new en­ergy of lay people,” he said. 
The experience of the maryknoll society is evidence of this trend. mayknoll only ordains one priest each year, but there are currently 700 lay maryknoll missionaries and 1,000 maryknoll affiliates, healey said. 
healey said this increasing participation of lay people is a fulfillment of what individuals are called to do as christians. 
“by our baptisms we’re sent out to preach the good news as disciples and missionaries,” healey said. 
mckinney said there is also significant diversity among the religious missionaries; some are americans; some are from europe, asia, latin america, and other parts of africa; and some are nationals of the coun­try in which they work. 
healey said there is another trend in missionary work to­ward mutuality. he said it is captured in a ugandan proverb: “one hand washes the other.” 
“There needs to be a mutual­ity of mission, a mutual enrich­ment, between the church in america and in africa,” he said. 
healey said missionary work­ers are also using different vocabulary,esuch as the phrase “global south.” 
“we don’t use the terms de­veloping nation or third world anymore. instead, we say a country is a part of the global south,” he said. 
healey said ongoing mission­ary work in kenya has focused on the concept of “see, judge, act” as a means of finding ways to improve the lives of people in the various small christian communities. 
“we start with our experi­ence, and out of that experience we judge our situation,” he said. “we then use this judgment to determine how to act. we use ‘see, judge, act’ to become agents of change.” 
when reflecting on the work maryknoll and other organiza­tions have done in africa, healy said it is important to remem­ber the african proverb, “That which is good is never finished.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Show 
conTinued from page 1 
sponsor sign making in the Jacc fieldhouse after the pep rally friday so students can hold up cre­ative posters during the telecast, stoutenburgh said. The group will also give out free mcdonald’s breakfast sandwiches saturday morning to the first 200 students to show up, she said. 
“notre dame football week­ends are special to begin with, but having ‘college gameday’ on campus adds another level of ex­citement and energy on campus,” stoutenburgh said. “we have an awesome opportunity to show the nation that notre dame football is back, and the fans couldn’t be more excited about it.” 
Junior matt cunningham, president of leprechaun legion, said being featured in “college gameday” signifies that notre dame is a top contender in college football. 
“with the national spotlight on notre dame, beating stanford gives us a chance to announce our presence as a legitimate top-10 team,” cunningham said. 
Junior mark ambrose said he plans to camp out with friends to be “front and center” for “college gameday.” 
“something like this only comes around once in a while,” ambrose said. “i remember watching the show as a kid and in high school and always wanting to be a part of the festivities and craziness that goes along with it. it’s really great that they decided to come to nd for once and give us this opportunity.” 
ambrose said he doesn’t want to reveal the contents of his sign before the taping, but it pokes fun at “notorious nd haters mark may and rick reilly of espn.” 
sophomore conor mccarter said he will hold up a sign that reads, “even the lorax won’t save these trees,” referring to the stanford Tree, a feature of the school’s marching band. 
“it bothers me how no one’s heard about notre dame,” mccarter said. “i hope [being fea­tured on ‘college gameday’] can help to make us relevant again.” 
Junior ben finan said bringing college gameday to notre dame calls into question espn corre­spondent rick reilly’s pre-season assertion that notre dame football is irrelevant. 
“espn just ran the rick reilly article about notre dame, and for them to then turn around and have his company choose to come here contradicts their highest-paid journalist,” finan said. “[‘college gameday’ has] only got 13, 14 ap­pearances a year. notre dame’s clearly relevant. it is a benefit be­cause it does say, ‘notre dame’s back on the map.’” 
but finan said he does not plan to attend the taping because he went the last time “college gameday” came to notre dame for the 2005 game against usc. 
“i was kind of underwhelmed by the production,” he said. “it was just so many people and very hard to hear and understand what was going on while you were in the crowd, and basically all it is any­time they come back to a commer­cial or go to a commercial, they show the crowd and you hold up your sign.” 
finan said he fears the presence of “college gameday” on campus will disturb the traditional pre­game atmosphere. 
“people generally are wandering all around campus,” finan said. “i feel like this will create a gravita­tion point of something that will take away from people going to the grotto and the basilica, and it will take away from people cooking out on the quad because people are going to be so drawn to this na­tional name of ‘college gameday’ and going to library Quad, which is where people already are.” 
finan said he is more excited for “mike and mike in the morning” to film on campus friday. 
ambrose said the publicity will make the football weekend better for fans. 
“i think it’ll add to the over­all game atmosphere,” he said. “obviously with michigan being a night game, that in itself made it a crazy atmosphere, but with gameday on campus it’s only go­ing to make the game atmosphere even crazier for this huge game. it also doesn’t hurt to have the nation 
paid adverTisemenT 

pay attention to us in light of our game,” finan said. “i feel like [be­undefeated start, [which is] hope-cause of] the amp up for the miami fully a good sign that notre dame game, despite being awesome and football is indeed back.” playing a great game, we could ex-
while the hype before the game perience a hangover this weekend, may draw positive attention to and gameday is contributing to notre dame, finan said he fears it that.” may contribute to an unfortunate 
result.  Contact Tori Roeck at    
“There’s  always  a  let-down  vroeck@nd.edu  
paid adverTisemenT  




paid adverTisemenT 
Corps 
conTinued from page 1 
therefore it was a learning ex­perience for both him and the peace corps. 
“They sent me to Thailand where i worked on construction, and it taught me to be adaptive, flexible and accommodating,” parent said. 
Junior graphic design major Jeff mclain said he is interested in the peace corps for the orga­nized nature of the group that has developed over its existence. 

“i’m interested in both busi­ness development and post­graduate service,” mclain said. “The organization of the peace corps would give me opportu­nities in both of these areas.” 
peace corps recruiter rok Teasley, who served in moldova from 2005 to 2008, said the purpose of wednesday night’s event was to allow current notre dame students to connect with former peace corps volunteers. 
Teasley also said the peace corps recruitment with notre dame has been “great” since both institutions share similar goals. 

“The peace corps has a com­mitment to service in a rapidly globalizing world,” Teasley said. “i see a similar commitment by notre dame.” 
Teasley said peace corps 

volunteers  share  common  
characteristics.  
“volunteers  are  generally  

committed individuals, who want to serve and are strong leaders,” Teasley said. 
The application process tends to take seven to 12 months and includes seven steps, accord­ing to the peace corps official website. 

after an individual is admit­ted to the peace corps, Teasley said that volunteer will serve for two years in a nation that fits their area of expertise. 
notre dame is currently ranked no. 10 among medium-sized universities for peace corps volunteers. 
Contact Benjamin Horvath at bhorvath8@nd.edu 
Music 
conTinued from page 1 
of sacred music degrees. Tellez said the degree is artistic, though it is affiliated with the department of Theology, and it complements the pastoral du­ties of a church music director. 
“sacred music at notre dame is a young initiative of the university, devoted to the formation of proficient art­ists in the field of sacred music and to the exploration of the significance of sacred music to our civilization,” Tellez said. “sacred music is considered the handmaiden of liturgy and religion because it may open the spirit, generate a sense of bonding, and bring peace to the mind to ready it for theological reflection.” 
The sacred music program at notre dame collaborates with 
paid adverTisemenT 
south bend churches to place its graduate students in super­vised church music director po­sitions, Tellez said. This allows them to practice the discipline of an artistic relationship with a pastor and a congregation. 
Tellez said she will contribute to the musical direction of the project as needed, collaborating with other participating faculty and students. 
“The projects funded by the grant will permit the student to explore the merits of certain ar­tistic methodologies and perfor­mance formats, some of which will be very innovative,” Tellez said. “This will invite them to explore the ways in which they can be more inspiring and com­pelling in sharing sacred music with their congregations.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Kelly 
conTinued from page 1 
The pink game also gives the foundation an arena for raising awareness of its com­mitment to health, education and community, and its par­ticular focus on breast can­cer education and research, klunder said. 
“This is a great opportu­nity for the foundation to get its name out there and let the community, fans and alumni know what we do,” she said. “since october is breast cancer awareness month, this is a perfect platform to do that.” 
founded by irish head coach brian kelly and his wife, paqui, the foundation dedicates much of its work to causes related to breast can­cer awareness due to paqui kelly’s personal connection to the cause as a two-time survivor of the disease, she said. 
“as part of the three pillars of the organization, we focus on breast cancer awareness, education and research,” she said. “we continue to help organizations in any of those facets, whether it’s assisting research facilities with fund­ing or me doing speaking en­gagements and encouraging people to be proactive about their health.” 
The foundation also sup­ports other non-profit orga­nizations, paqui kelly said, as it recently donated $10,000 to notre dame swim coach brian barnes’s coaches vs. cancer event in honor of barnes’s late wife, alyssa. 
This year’s pink game holds special significance for paqui kelly, as she celebrated be­ing five years cancer-free in september. 
“The first time around, i didn’t get to celebrate be­cause i was diagnosed again before the five-year mark,” she said. 
in addition to the visual display of support from the football team and sales of adidas licensed pink gear on game day, klunder said the foundation will be selling facemasks of brian kelly’s pink-visored face to fans as part of a partnership with the logan center in south bend. 
“The proceeds will be split 50-50 between the logan center and the foundation. They do wonderful things for their clients, and in keeping with our pillar of community, we can give back to an orga­nization that could use the additional funds,” she said. 
“The logan center’s cli­ents helped assemble [the masks], so they’ve been re­ally proactive and involved in this. i don’t know if there are more or bigger notre dame fans than the logan center clients.” 
The upcoming game is a con­tinuation of the foundation’s other breast cancer aware­ness efforts, including last week’s second annual Think pink with paqui golf outing, which hosted 250 guests and raised more than $75,000 in net proceeds, klunder said. 
although the noncompeti­tive event was “lighthearted,” paqui kelly said its education­al value was the real focus of the outing, as two michiana oncologists spoke to attend­ees about breast cancer treat­ment, early detection and research. 
“The event was quite suc­cessful, and we got positive feedback from people who came,” she said. “The oncolo­gists discussed current treat­ments, and so many things have changed that what peo­ple were told 10 years ago is a lot different now. from my first to my second diagno­sis, my treatments were very different.” 
paqui kelly said her experi­ence motivates her to share her story and raise awareness of the disease year round, not just in october. 
“it’s personal to brian and me. i feel like i had a red car­pet with cancer treatment be­cause we had everything we needed along the way,” she said. “it’s also very important to understand that breast cancer doesn’t just happen in october, but using the same platform of awareness as the country and the nfl helps.” 
for more information about the kelly cares foundation, visit kellycaresfoundation. org. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 




The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Architect gives lecture on urban design 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
what is a city and what is ur­ban? renowned architect and urban designer steven peterson of peterson-littenberg architects said in a lecture wednesday the two concepts are best defined separately. 
peterson gave a talk titled “The uniqueness of urban design” in bond hall, detailing five urban design projects he has worked on over the years in large, dense cities such as paris, rome and new york. he also described qualifications of cities versus urban centers. 
he began the lecture with a focus on the forbidden city in shanghai. it is enclosed by an in­ner city, which is enclosed by the actual city, with the suburban area on the outside. 
“what appears to be one of the great, gridded urban plans … is actually a very different thing,” peterson said. 
The area is broken up into grids, and what appear as blocks today used to be walled-in areas. They were towns within towns in this larger city complex. despite the large size of the city, shanghai lacks certain urban qualifications. for instance, every house in the shanghai region is built the same way, abiding by a principle of re­petitive structure. also, a number of the streets do not run through the city but are cut short by other structures, he said. 
“because everything was aimed at the emperor, [shanghai] is in­complete as a grid and network as we would expect to find in an american city,” he said. 
peterson said he does not be­lieve a highly rational, organized system makes an urban condi­tion. he grew up in chicago, and he assumed that cities were all like his hometown. in actuality, they contained a distinct fabric, one which did not historically trans­late to china. 
“i don’t think china ever had ur­banism. it had big cities,” peterson said. 
peterson then shifted to anoth­er area of china, the new beijing region. he said the city features large city blocks and showcases the chinese fixation on objects. construction of buildings includ­ed gates built into the walls into the center of the structures. Tall buildings also came in clusters, he said. 
Through study of chinese cit­ies, peterson said he abandoned his assumption that urban centers and cities are the same. 
“it’s not just a spontaneous evo­lution of time making things dens­er and denser, streets and squares. it’s actually an invention,” he said. “urbanism is an invention, con­scious, deliberate and innovative.” 
peterson said the hudson yards plan in new york exemplifies a part of a city with a lack of urban quality. This area needed shaping because it lacked spatial defini­tion and there was fluid anti-space present in the design. 
peterson then outlined what makes a city truly urban. “i want to pose a form-based list of nec-chicago does not touch its neigh-included the memorial garden essary urban ingredients of the bors as it should, and such a fac-precinct and a commemorative dense fabric of western cities,” he tor is a major component in what theatre with 2,797 seats, each for said. makes cities work. The closed one victim in the september 11 

peterson listed eight such block is the essential atom of ur-attack, and resolved the issue of component.s of urbanism. he ban design. blocked streets. said the city block should be solid peterson ended his lecture by 

“This plan connects every one of these [street] back into a net­work,” peterson said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT and closed, and the array of the talking about five of his design block should exist in a formed pat-sites. one area he worked on was tern. an interactive urban field, a sector of paris in a 1978 competi­a linked space network, and a tion site. volumetric, closed public space he said he wanted the “es­are also necessary. furthermore, sence of inner city to be distinc­a membrane needs to incorpo-tive from the typical paris street rate a street wall as well as a block architecture.” surface. architecture should be This called for an incorporation commingled with the blocks, em-of a new block array and the cre­bedded in the wal, and entangled ation of a volumetric public space. in a block base. finally, a seques-a more recent example of his tered public space should form work included the world Trade the precinct. center innovative design study. 
“chicago is almost all non-The original layout of the towers urban,” he said. “alleys destroy prior to 2001 cut off five streets. the block membrane and street in designing the memorial, continuity.” peterson said he hoped to make 
he also said the architecture in the city area urban. The plan 


paid adverTisemenT 


Mother glues toddler to wall of home 
Associated Press 
dallas — a mother who admitted to beating her 2-year-old daughter and glu­ing the child’s hands made a plea for leniency wednesday, saying she was no longer the “monster” who committed the attack. 
“i will never forgive my­self for what i did to my own daughter,” said elizabeth escalona, who pleaded guilty in July to felony injury to a child. 
police say escalona lost her temper last year with Jocelyn cedillo over potty training problems. escalona beat and kicked Jocelyn before stick­ing her hands to an apartment wall using an adhesive com­monly known as super glue. The child was hospitalized for days. 

Judge larry mitchell has a wide range in choosing escalona’s sentence: anything from probation to life in pris­on is possible. prosecutors are asking for a 45-year sentence. 
defense attorney angie n’duka asked escalona what she thought of photos that prosecutors presented earlier this week showing her daugh­ter’s injuries. 
“only a monster does that,” escalona responded. 
n’duka then asked escalona whether she thought she was a monster. “when that happened, i was,” escalona replied. 
escalona asked mitchell for an opportunity to show she had changed, adding that she would accept any sentence as fair. 
“i want everybody to know i’m not a monster,” escalona said. “i love my kids.” 
escalona admitted to hit­ting and kicking her daughter but said she didn’t recall why she did it. 
prosecutors have portrayed escalona as an unfit mother with a history of violence. They have played recordings in which escalona as a teenag­er threatened to kill her moth­er. They said she was a former gang member who started smoking marijuana at age 11. 
her sentencing hear­ing is scheduled to resume Thursday. 
Jocelyn suffered bleed­ing in her brain, a fractured rib, multiple bruises and bite marks, and was in a coma for a couple of days. some skin had been torn off her hands, where doctors also found glue residue and white paint chips from the apartment wall, wit­nesses testified. 

escalona’s family has ac­knowledged their dismay and anger following the attack, but both her mother and sister asked the judge for leniency. 
“i wanted an explanation,” said margaret escalona, her sister. “i wanted to know what happened. i wanted to beat my sister up.” 
ofelia escalona, elizabeth’s mother, said her daughter hit her as a child, but she also said elizabeth was abused growing up. both ofelia and margaret escalona argued that elizabeth needed more help and not prison. 
“her being taken away won’t help any,” margaret escalona said. 
paid adverTisemenT 



man sneaks grenade on plane 
Associated Press 
los angeles — south korean security officials screened a man with a bul­letproof vest before he got on a flight to los angeles, but they never detected a banned smoke grenade in his checked luggage with a cache of knives, handcuffs, a gas mask and other weapons, a 
u.s. official said wednesday. 
yongda huang harris and his carry-on luggage were thoroughly searched, but authorities found nothing suspicious and he boarded the flight, said a homeland security official briefed on the investigation. The official was not authorized to discuss the case publicly and spoke with The associated press on condition of anonymity. 
harris, 28, was arrested in los angeles last week dur­ing a stopover on a trip from Japan after u.s. customs and border protection officers noticed the bulletproof vest. a search of harris’ checked luggage uncovered the smoke grenade and an array of sus­picious items, including leg irons, body bags, a hatchet, billy clubs, a collapsible ba­ton, duct tape and a biohaz­ard suit. 
u.s. officials were work­ing with south korean au­thorities to determine how the grenade slipped through screening of harris’ checked bag. 
harris is not cooperating with federal officials who are trying to determine why he was headed to boston with the cache of weapons, authorities said. The smoke grenade was X-rayed by po­lice bomb squad officers, who said the device fell into a category that is prohibited on board passenger aircraft. 
Tom blank, a former dep­uty administrator at the Transportation security administration, said the u.s. will likely look at whether the failure to detect the gre­nade on a u.s.-bound jet was a one-time lapse or part of a wider security vulnerability. 
if the u.s. determines a country’s airport doesn’t meet u.s. standards, it can ask for stronger security measures and even prohibit flights from flying directly to the u.s. from that country. 
“This clearly looks like an error. something slipped through that should not have slipped through,” blank said of the grenade. 
The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
A new year’s transformation 

INSIDE COLUMN 

it’s sign time 

Isaac Lorton 
sports writer 

i don’t know if you’ve heard, but “college gameday” is coming to cam­pus for the epic battle of the college teams whose mascots’ names don’t end in ‘s.’ or, “the battle for being ‘s’-less,” if you will. 
now there’s no need to speculate about who lee corso is going to pick, because it’s obvious. he will be sporting a green hat, carrying a shillelagh and do­ing his best irish jig. so don’t waste your precious time on that. check. 
as for midterms this week, they are unimportant and suck the creativity out of your minds (trust me, you will need the creativity this week). so you should also not waste your time studying for or fretting over those. check. 
The most, absolutely most impor­tant thing this week, with the arrival of “college gameday,” is the signs. 
when people watch “college gameday,” they do not care what kirk, lee, desmond and chris say. yes, corso’s tradition of picking a school is awesome, but his selection is second in awesome­ness to the plethora of provocative signs parading around in the background. fans have been watching espn all week. They’ve heard all of the predictions and opinions about the game — nothing new will be said. The viewers care what the signs say. or maybe that’s just me. 
it is your one shot, your one opportu­nity, to show the world what you can do with a bit of bawdiness, a poster board and a handful of magic markers. The whole world will be watching what a bunch of crazy college kids can come up with. we need to rise to this tremendous occasion and show the world that we can combine arts and crafts with cleverness better than any other school out there. 
There are always the usual signs that go for the cheap laugh, but then there are those that go down in sign lore. we need to aim for lore-status. when an­other college gets “gameday” and the students go to google looking for funny ideas, the whole first page should be completely covered with our signs. 
imagine the world is bluto from the movie “animal house” (i know, kind of a scary thought, but stay with me) and imagine we are otter. bluto has just challenged us to fulfill our potential, so what should our response be? 
it should be: “we have to go all out. i think that this situation absolutely re­quires a really futile and stupid gesture be done on somebody’s part. and we are just the guys to do it.” 
so let’s do it. let’s go all out and make the greatest, most memorable signs ever. 
right now. seriously, stop reading and start sign making. go! 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Katharine Barrett 
faithpoint 
have you ever walked down the quad or through a hallway to a class­room and wondered, “can’t they tell?” have you ever felt so changed, so transformed inside that you’re shocked to realize it isn’t written all over your face? maybe you just heard that your sister and brother-in-law are going to have a baby or you were accepted into grad school, and you think, “how can this stunningly awe­some turn of events not be completely obvious to everyone around me?” 
sadly, we also sometimes feel this in a moment of pain or sadness af­ter a tragedy like the death of a close friend or family member. my niece recently wrote about the death of her cousin, “The world continued as if it hadn’t just lost one of the really special people, one of the people who doesn’t come along very often. i wanted to scream at my teachers that piece-wise functions and ionic bonds didn’t mat­ter when bjorn was gone. who cares about the proper use of commas when bjorn is gone?” we marvel that the world — or at least that person who just said hello to us — can’t imme­diately see that our insides have just been put through a cross-cut shredder. 
other times we can’t keep the tears from streaming down our face or wipe off the big dopey grin that insists on returning no matter how hard we try to control it, thereby revealing our inner selves for all to see. 

beginning today, you are officially invited to a time of transformation. not of your outside appearance (a plethora of over-the-counter groom­ing products can take care of that just fine), but of your heart. The one who loves you more completely and intimately than anyone in the world invites you. Through the church all over the world, and right here at notre dame through campus ministry, god asks you — dares you — to open up this year to a new commitment to who you are on the inside. 
Today, oct. 11, begins an official “year of faith” for catholic christians worldwide. starting today, the 50th anniversary of the opening of the second vatican council, be bold enough to take on the challenge to venture deeper into your faith. listen more carefully to god’s voice in your life, act on what you hear, discover who you are and what you believe in, explore the questions and uncertain­ties you’ve felt about your beliefs, en­gage your heart as you seek answers and experience a fuller sense of god’s constant presence in every moment of every day. 
at notre dame, we know how to go big. we can do big football week­ends — hey, we can even do “college gameday.” we can do big stress at mid-terms and finals. we can do big parties for Jpw and commencement, big masses for frosh-o and baccalaureate. we can do big trips to dublin and chicago, to montreal, washington, d.c., and appalachia. so in campus ministry when we first heard about the year of faith, we thought, “we’ll go big! big events! big excitement! big opportunities to trans­form our faith lives!” 
funny enough though, for this year of faith we decided we’d like to invite you to go small. we’ve planned a year of ways to focus on our faith that’s, well, full of the small stuff — because sometimes small stuff sticks better than big. Just like a tiny piece of lint will cling to your sweater with fero­cious determination even while that big water bottle can’t seem to stop falling out of your backpack, we in campus ministry hope that you’ll try some tiny but mighty things each month of the coming year. These tasks are small enough that you can stick with them and mighty enough to be­come habits that will stick with you over the long haul. 
whether it will be obvious by look­ing at you or not, you have a new year’s opportunity to know, love and serve god more deeply — to become trans­formed, to start a revolution in your own heart and mind, to go big by go­ing small. visit our website at campus­ministry.nd.edu and click on “year of faith” to find out more. 
Katharine Barrett is the director of the Emmaus program at Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“The beginning is always today.”  What’s your favorite stress-reliever for  
midterms week?  
Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley English novelist  Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll by 5 p.m. Thursday.  



The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

LETTERS 

National Coming Out Day 
alliancend is the proposed student-run gay straight alliance (gsa), which would serve to educate and foster understanding on campus concerning lgbT issues. The goal of the group is not only to provide a safe space to lgbT students and their allies, but also to reach out to the campus at large and encourage a safe climate. we believe that the recognition of a formal gsa on campus is vital to providing adequate resources for lgbT members of the notre dame family. 
currently, lgbT issues are handled exclusively through a limited-access board (the core council). although this board allows for the representation of lgbT student interests to university administrators, it is not open to members of the campus community at large (non-member lgbT students and staff as well as allies). 
Today is national coming out day.  historically, national coming out day was founded to encourage acceptance of one’s identity, as well as to raise awareness about the struggles the lgbT community still faces today. The notre dame lgbT community certainly remains in this struggle. current structures and the gen­eral campus climate both continue to discourage students from coming out. 
alliancend itself has come out time and time again over the past two decades, fighting for the right to exist. Today, we write to you all encouraging you to come out in support of our struggle to improve campus climate, and ask administra­tors of this campus to come out with substantial plans for doing so. 
for those freshmen, sophomore, junior, senior, or grad students who are not sure if notre dame is ready for the greatness you have to offer, we promise that there are people on this campus who will love you for exactly who you are. alliancend will always welcome you. 
Kobena Ampofo  Maggie Waickman  Tom Lienhoop  
senior  sophomore  junior  
off campus  howard hall  dillon hall  
Mia Lillis  Patrick Ntwari  Maggie Miller  
junior  freshman  sophomore  
cavanaugh hall  keough hall  pasquerilla east  
Carl Brinker  Colleen Hancuch  Caitlin Zeiler  
senior  sophomore  sophomore  
off campus  howard hall  welsh family hall  
Alex Coccia  Lauren Morisseau  
junior  sophomore  
siegfried hall  breen-phillips hall  
Karl Abad  Zoe Jimenez  
senior  junior  
st. edward’s hall  breen-phillips hall  

a gameday reflection 
i had a dream that one day, notre dame would return to the pinnacle of the college football universe. 
i had a dream that one day, notre dame’s football prowess and the friendly confines of south bend, indiana would tickle the fancies of who­ever plans “college gameday,” and they would return to these hallowed, tradition-rich grounds. 
i had a dream that one day, “college gameday” would be unable to deny the allure of placing their show in the space between the glorious notre dame stadium and the mosaic arms of Jesus that pierce the sky towards the clouds as they signal the repeated inevitability during of a notre dame touchdown. 
i had a dream that when “gameday” cast its wide-angle lens towards the hesburgh library, it captured the effulgent reflection pool in all of its glory. 
i had a dream that this reflection pool would be full of every kind of out­rageous flotation device that has ever been created, and that the occupants of these devices would still be filled with what one notre dame alumnus termed as “liquid courage.” 
That dream has come true this saturday. Three years ago, two sopho­mores and three juniors started the most recent notre dame tradition, the gameday reflection. students and fans have floated for every home game since then, cheering on the band and irish guard as they march in front of the library and over to stonehenge. meet us at the pool (the band marches at 9:30 a.m. but come early), wearing the most ridiculous clothing you have, dragging any flotation device you can find and toting your cheering voice. as dickie v would say, “we’re gonna be on Tv, baby!” 
when this happens, when we allow ourselves to be immersed in the most recent notre dame tradition, when we forget the pounding headaches from the night before and start our gameday mornings like real notre dame men and women, when our unwavering support for what matters the most in life reverberates through the halls of our buildings, the ears of our players and the hearts of our fans, we will truly signal to the world that one thing is for certain in an increasingly uncertain world: notre dame football is back! 
p.s. for updates and answers to your questions, join the “a gameday reflection” group on facebook. 
Marko Pesce alumnus class of 2012  Bobby Weltner junior st. edward’s hall  Jake Marmul alumnus class of 2011  
Raymond Gallagher alumnus class of 2012  Chris Mertens senior keenan hall  Jamie Koepsel alumnus class of 2011  
Alex Korenstra alumnus class of 2012  Matt Brown alumnus class of 2011  Chase Riddle alumnus class of 2012  
Michael Lucente junior o’neill hall  Billy Shields alumnus class of 2011  Stephen Schwaner senior keenan hall  

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



By SAM STRYKER 
assistant managing editor 

for those of you who have been holed up in club hes studying for midterms, i have an exciting announce­ment for you — espn’s “college gameday” is visiting campus this weekend as the undefeated irish take on the stanford cardinal. while the excitement for the game is palpable, and students can’t wait to cheer on kirk herbstreit, lee corso and the “gameday” gang, i can’t help but think, shouldn’t notre dame be think­ing bigger than just a football show on espn? after all, this is a school that has spawned such television lumi­naries as regis philbin, “sportscenter” anchor hannah storm and that guy who played ethan rom on “losT.” notre dame likes to be the best at everything, so here is a list of Tv shows the university should shoot for visiting campus. 
“The Bachelorette” 

everyone knows if you don’t find your future spouse at notre dame, you’re a failure at life. whether it takes a walk around the lakes or a kiss under the lyons arch, you better get that ring by spring, baby. in that spirit, why not invite abc’s smash-hit dating series “The bachelorette” to campus? dating challenges for potential spous­es could include graduating with the highest gpa in mendoza (got to bring home the bacon) and making the best fro-yo sundae. if contestants won challenges, they could be rewarded with special dining hall dates (just not at north, duh). as for the rose ceremony, i imagine it being held in the 24-hour social space of the contestant’s dorm. after all, we want to respect parietals. naturally, the winners would receive an all-expenses-paid basilica wedding. 
“The Real World” 

alright, so mTv’s formula for “The real world.” basically pick a random city, choose seven stock char­acters, put them in an apartment and let the hijinks ensue. but it’s time to change the recipe, notre dame-style. here’s the premise: take an architecture student, a football player, a girl from saint mary’s, a freshman, a law student, an ra and an engineer and throw them into a house on notre dame avenue for a semester. it’s the ultimate notre dame social experiment. who wouldn’t watch this? if the house didn’t burn down by the end of the semester, the ratings could top “Jersey shore.” romance, drama and fighting irish pride: it’s all there. i’m just not sure mTv would get the housing deposit back. 
“Keeping Up with the Kardashians” 

by now, kim, khloe, kourtney and the rest of the kardashian clan are starting to get on america’s nerves. what better way to improve their pr image than a trip to america’s heartland? club fever may be no studio 54, but can’t you see kim throwing down in the cage? and after all the drama she’s underwent with scott disick, wouldn’t it be nice to see kourtney settle down with a nice catholic boy? The kardashians need to be brought down to earth, and i can think of no better way than filming a season of “kim and kourtney take south bend.” 
“Game of Thrones” 

work with me here. i realize unlike the first three shows i’ve suggested, “game of Thrones” is a scripted drama, not a reality series. but come wintertime, tell me notre dame does not feel like it is north of the wall. plus, i think the stark brothers would be a huge hit with the ladies on campus. my only concern is all the beheadings and nudity might get in the way of notre dame’s mis­sion of being the preeminent catholic university in the world. Then again, if you’ve experienced the “bun run” in the library or lafortune during finals week, notre dame may seem right at home in the hedonistic world of westeros and essos. and who wouldn’t want to watch university president fr. John Jenkins match wits with king Joffrey. 
“Survivor” 

notre dame may be a catholic school, but that doesn’t mean students are above a little cutthroat competitive­ness. let’s put our values to the test with a season of cbs’s flagship reality competition. challenges include a sprint up and down south Quad in the middle of winter, a quarter dog-eating challenge and climbing stepan in uggs or sperrys. we can even divide the tribes by col­lege: mendoza (the “real-world experience”) against the rest of the field (the “academics”). last tribe member standing wins a full-ride scholarship to the university. 
while a visit from “college gameday” is exciting, here at notre dame we don’t settle, we excel. so cross your fingers and pick up the remote. here’s to hoping notre dame is featured in a more exciting television series soon. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

By WILL NEAL 
scene writer 

on february 1, 1999, author stephen chbosky welcomed the world to “the island of misfit toys” in his novel, “The perks of being a wallflower.” Twelve years later, chbosky had the unheard-of opportunity to not only write but also direct the cinematic adaptation of his book. The result is an emotionally jarring and sincere film about the trials of high school that will resonate with anyone who has ever felt like an outcast. The success of this film stems from a well-structured story, hard-hit­ting subject matter and three incredibly mov­ing performances from the lead actors. 
The plot centers around an emotion­ally unstable freshman named charlie (logan lerman, from “percy Jackson and the olympians”), as he writes letters to an anonymous pen pal about his experiences of high school. charlie is an awkward and quiet student who fights the emotions of a troubled past and a dark secret that comes with it. his older sister, a senior, ignores him in school while his parents at home have trouble connecting with him. in other words, charlie has a lot of trouble when it comes to making friends. when charlie finally builds up the courage to step out and talk to a senior named patrick (ezra miller, from “we need to Talk about kevin”), patrick and his attrac­tive step-sister sam (emma watson, from… you know who she is) takecharlie under their wing. charlie is soon brought into their ex­citing world of house parties, “rocky horror picture show” reenactments, mix-tapes and reckless tunnel driving. The experiences these three characters share comes off as a genuine friendship, and their humor and emotions are all the more effective. 
despite coming off as a classic high school plotline with plenty of humor, there is a real darkness to this film that stays true to its orig­inal source. These main characters, especial­ly charlie, have secrets that will bring them to theiremotional breakingpoints andtest their friendships. during the film, i was waiting to learn about what traumatic event happened to charlie in his past, and just when i thought i had it figured out, the story delivers a shock­ing answer.iwon’t say that this is a depressing film, but it does deal with some heavy subject matter among charlie, patrick and sam. 
lerman (charlie) delivers a both im­pressive and subtle performance, as he’s effectively able to dance through a wide ar­ray of adolescent emotions. watson (sam) sheds any trace of her hermione granger persona and shows off her impressive acting chops to prove she is a true talent. i’ve heard complaints that watson isn’t an appropri­ate match for the character, but from where i was sitting, she was nailing her performance every step of the way. however, the indisput­able stand-out performance of the film goes to ezramiller (patrick), who proves he may be one of the most talented stars among our gen­eration. stealing nearly every scene he’s in, miller is electrifying, hilarious, yet extremely well balanced throughout the film. i can say with certainty that all three of these young actors have a strong future ahead of them. 

if there’s any complaint to be made about the film, it’s that “perks” can come off as a little sappy at times and lose its sense of real­ity when it plays off familiar high school cli­chés (then again, high school is nothing but clichés). These minor issues, however, mean nothing compared to what works well in the film. “perks” is touching, funny, beauti­fully acted and overall a truly intimate piece of filmmaking. you’ll rarely find an “outcast film” that can compare to the days of “The breakfast club,” but “perks” rises to the occa­sion by delivering a simple, yet powerful story about friendships and acceptance that will successfully resonate with our generation. 
high note: powerful performances and a story of high school that can deliver both hu­mor and heavy subject matter with success. 
low note: a few minor sappy moments and high school clichés distract from the re­alness of the film. 
side note: logan lerman was almost cho­sen to play peter parker in “The amazing spiderman.” 
Contact Will Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
“The Perks of Being a Wallflower” 
Starring: Logan Lerman, Emma Watson and Ezra Miller 
Director: Stephen Chbosky 
If you like: “Nick and Norah’s Infinite Playlist,” “Charlie Bartlett” 

BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 

What: 90210 at the 46556 Where: legends When: 12:00 a.m. How Much: free with student id 
done with midterms? want to get a break from studying? celebrate and party beverly hills-style with friends at legends. There will be fun music, beverages and the cw’s 90210 will also be screening. 
FRIDAY 

What: The comedy specthacular Where: washington hall When: 8:00 p.m. How Much: free 
The humor artists in collabo­ration with student stand-ups present comedy specthacular, a variety comedy show featur­ing stand-up, improv, sketches and musical comedy. go with a group of friends and watch some of the best comedians on cam­pus perform. 

SATURDAY 

What: espn’s “college gameday” Where: library Quad When: starting at 8:00 a.m. How Much: free 
it’s the moment we’ve all been waiting for, espn’s “college gameday” on campus. create cool posters with friends and ar­rive early to the Quad so you can cheer for the irish and get your 15 minutes of fame on national Tv. 
SUNDAY 

What: “peter pan” Where: The lerner Theater When: 3:00 p.m. How Much: $15 
have a relaxing end of the weekend and relive your child­hood years, as premier arts brings the musical “peter pan” to south bend. don’t miss what promises to be a spectacular show! 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 

honesty is a rare trait in art. artists often talk about how their lives inspire their work, and sometimes make vague references to specifics in their past, but true, bare, brutal honesty is rarely seen or heard. 
above the powerful delivery and the cre­ative, diverse production of the songs, it’s the soulful, genuine honesty that defines the debut album from rapper macklemore and producer ryan lewis, “The heist,” and makes it spectacular. 
The album has been in the works for over three years as macklemore, whose real name is ben haggerty, attempted and eventually succeeded to break away from alcohol and drug use and dependency. 
one of the most powerful and affect­ing tracks on the album, “starting over,” deals with this issue, as macklemore delves unflinchingly into his demons. The song, which features an introspective beat from lewis, explains the rapper’s relapse after over three years of sobriety and the internal suffering he went through as people con­tinued to look to him as their inspiration to achieve sobriety. 
he speaks his mind without holding anything back, and does it with a delivery that’s as powerful and emotionally charged as any contemporary musician. 
another one of the best songs on the al­bum (there are a lot of them), “wing$,” de­scribes the rapper’s conflicted feelings on the extreme materialism of society, with a chilling, slow background from lewis fea­turing string instruments. 
macklemore is an outspoken inde­pendent rapper. “make the money” and “Jimmy iovine” shed light on his frustra­tions with the music industry. 
“same love,” one of the album’s most touching songs, expresses macklemore’s support for same-sex marriage rights. 
even with so many social messages, macklemore insists he shouldn’t be labeled as a “socially conscious” rapper. he just writes from the heart, and what comes out, comes out. (editor’s note: see Tuesday’s “conscious rappers” column for more on the subject.) 
and the album isn’t all serious and in­trospective. The duo also proves at times to have some fun-loving childishness that keeps the whole production from being too much of a downer. “Thrift shop,” one of the album’s singles, which features a humor­ous video of the two in various thrift shop outfits, might be album’s best song, and certainly is it’s catchiest. 

The song is another window into macklemore’s personality, showing his self-deprecating sense of humor, and the obvious departure from normal hip-hop stereotypes illustrates his unique place in the landscape of the rap game. 
“castle” has the same tongue in cheek humor and upbeat dance feel as one of the duo’s first successes, the highly popular “and we danced.” it includes lines such as “unicorns and wizard sleeves/hammer pants and make believe” and “who wants to eat a coyote?” — a welcome message that, as serious as he can be, the rapper doesn’t take himself to seriously. 
as good as macklemore’s lyrics and de­livery are, the glue to the whole is the un­believably on point production of ryan lewis. Track after track, lewis’s beats, backgrounds, samplings and mixing bring the rapper’s words to life, and often are as moving as the lyrics themselves. lewis proves himself from the opening track that, despite being an independent artist prob­ably working with inferior equipment, he might just be one of the most talented and visionary producers in music today. 
The overall style of “The heist” is unique and very personal to macklemore, but the soulful lyrics, creative production and re­fusal to try to fit in to hip-hop norms evoke comparisons to a rapper like kanye west. and it’s an intriguing comparison. 
Though it may be sacrilegious to say, but in terms of debut albums, macklemore and ryan lewis’s opening effort is on the same quality level as kanye’s “college dropout.” of course, being independent artists, they may not achieve the same level of success as kanye did with his debut. 
but in terms of powerful, honest and creative hip-hop, “The heist” is as good as it gets. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
“The Heist” 
Macklemore & Ryan Lewis 
Label: Independent 
Tracks: “Thrift Shop,” “Same Love” 
If you like: Blue Scholars , Common Market 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

‘Tis the season 

Matthew Robison 
sports writer 
The most wonderful time of the year is almost upon us. as much as i love the holidays, i’m not talking about christmastime. i’m talking about that few-day stretch when every major sport is active. 
it’s like all the planets in the solar system coming into perfect alignment, the entire orchestra playing perfectly in tune or the beat coming through your headphones per­fectly in pace with your stride. except it happens every year at the same time. 
about a month ago, we broke out of the summer rut in which the mlb is the only active major sport. soon enough, ev­erything will be happening at once. everything will be perfect for but a few fleeting days. 
at the end of october, the nfl and ncaa football will be in the heart of their sched­ules, the world series will be underway and the nba regular season will have started. gary bettman and the nhl tried to ruin it this year, but espn is soothing our worries by television, seamlessly flipping through the national sports networks, feeling the warmth on our lap as our computers bring us live-streaming games. 
Just when the south bend weather decides to smack us in the face with a few cold morn­ings, rest assured knowing the sporting world is about to hit its peak. 
mark your calendars. from oct. 27 to nov. 1, there will be 15 nfl games played. during that same time period, games 4 through 7 of the world series will be played, 57 fbs college football games will take place and the nba regular season will kick off with 14 games sched­uled over that stretch. had the nhl lockout not happened, i’m not confident i would have been able to keep up with it all. 
but as it is, the greatest week 
— in my opinion — in sports is nearly upon us. as a fan of near­ly all sports, i greatly appreciate the privilege to be able to watch all of them at once. 
certainly some will take precedence over others. as much as i would like to watch everything, my time (and my basic cable subscription) will not allow me to do so. if my beloved orioles make it to the 

As a sports fan, this is the most wonderful time of the year. Even though baseball is not my favorite sport, my favorite moment in sports is the final pitch of the 
World Series. 
showing games from the khl (russia’s premiere professional hockey league). 
as a sports fan, this is the most wonderful time of the year. even though baseball is not my favorite sport, my favor­ite moment in sports is the final pitch of the world series. i love seeing the pure elation as the rest of the team piles onto the closing pitcher. but, in a differ­ent way, it marks the beginning of the winter season, the most jam-packed of them all. 
december brings bowl sea­son, college basketball confer­ence showdowns and marquee nba matchups. January brings us the bcs games and frigid nfl playoff games. in february, we get the super bowl. in march, the madness. in april, baseball starts again. 
but rarely do we get to experi­ence all four at once. so when that fruitful few days finally comes around, sports fans, let us bask in the glory that is overlapping seasons. let us park ourselves in front of the world series, to those games i will be glued. if not, i will still tune in for that ecstasy-induc­ing final out. of course, i will be watching notre dame play oklahoma, which could be a matchup of two top-10 teams by the time it occurs. Thankfully, my hometown ravens have a bye, so i can split my time be­tween the 15 other nfl games that weekend. 
it might sound like one can be easily overwhelmed. but in this case, i don’t think it’s pos­sible to have too much of a good thing, and i think plenty of us out there would agree. in the immortal words of The lonely island, “we like sports. and we don’t care who knows.” 
sports fans, join me in cel­ebrating the most wonderful time of the year. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MEN’S GOLF 

Irish head to Muncie 
By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 

after carding a tournament-best final round at the fighting irish gridiron golf classic on Tuesday, the irish look to continue their strong play next week at the earl yestingsmeier invitational in muncie, ind. 
notre dame turned in a team score of 6-over-par 290 at the warren golf course on the third and final day of tournament play Tuesday to finish in eighth place overall in the home event. The irish head to muncie on monday to compete only as individuals. althoughnotredame will not have the opportunity to win the two-day tournament as a team, irish coach Jim kubinski said his team will still take the competition seriously and use it asan opportunity toimprove. 
“we will prepare, we will try to learn the golf course as best we can for next week,” kubinski said. “Quite honestly ithink the guys are getting more and more comfort­able, we are seeing flashes of good play. we just need to take it out over 18 holes and when we do that we will be a good team.” 
kubinski said his team drove the ball well during the fighting irish gridiron golf classic. however, he said some of his more inexpe­rienced golfers need to get more practice with other areas of their game. 
“a lot of things that we do, whether it is a couple of putts here or there, or just that tee shot at the wrong time. if you hit a ball off line on a lot of holes you are fine but it is just the wrong hole to do that. a lot of those things are just about get­ting comfortable competing at this level.” 
Junior andrew carreon played well at the fighting irish gridiron golf classic as an individual. although he has not competed in many tournaments for notre dame, carreon is a co-captain along with senior paul mcnamara iii. kubinski praised the junior’s ef­forts at the warren this week. 
“(carreon) was not in the line­up but he was the low individual player for our team,” kubinski said. “i think he tied paul overall. he shot 73 all three days on a tough golf course, so i was very proud of andrew carreon.” 
irish sophomore peyton vitter also played well in notre dame’s most recent outing, kubinski said. The coach said the irish will be counting on carreon and vitter this weekend and beyond. 
“honestly i thought peyton vitter, he had a triple bogey today and still posted a 73, which [tak­ing into account] the conditions and the triple-bogey, 73 was a really good score.” 
The irish begin action at the earl yestingsmeier invitational on monday morning and conclude Tuesday. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL | smc 3, albion 0 
belles sweep albion 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 

on wednesday, saint mary’s claimed its sixth conference win over miaa opponent albion in a three-set sweep, winning 25-18, 25-22, 25-18. 
“i thought we played a great match,” belles coach Toni kuschel said. “we won in three, which was a goal going in. it was nice to ac­complish that against a tough de­fensive team.” 
for the belles (11-9, 6-4 miaa), the match took on an added value outside of being a key con­ference matchup in a hotly con­tested miaa race, kuschel said. wednesday night was the belles “crush for the cure” night in honor of saint mary’s alumna anne blair payne. The team garnered pledges and donations for payne, a south bend native and graduate in the class of 2002, who has been diag­nosed with lymphoma. 
“[wednesday] was for anne and we were able to raise a lot of mon­ey for her fight against cancer,” kuschel said. “The girls really played for her [last night] and that really shined through.” 
againstalbion (2-19, 0-11miaa), the belles stuck to their game plan, which was critical to the team’s performance, kuschel said. 
“we were able to win the serve and pass game. we put a lot of pressure on them so they weren’t able to run their big middles,” kuschel said. “we just stuck with the game plan and executed. it’s nice to come out with a big win.” 
sophomore outside hitter kati schneider and freshman setter abby white led the belles offen­sively. schneider led all players in the match with 15 kills, while white led all players with 34 assists. 
“for [white], a freshman, to come in and play that composed, to be able to have those kinds of stats, was great,” kuschel said. “we’re really proud of her and the way she played tonight.” 
also garnering her coach’s praise was sophomore middle hitter melanie kuczek. kuczek finished second on the team with nine kills, all while hitting at 69 percent. 
“for melanie to play like that was great,” kuschel said. “her and kati hitting the way they did was a huge part of our win [against albion].” 
saint mary’s now has the week­end off before they resume play next Tuesday. on Tuesday, the belles travel to adrian (11-14, 4-7 miaa) for another conference matchup. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR SALE 

2 Bedroom 1 Bath home. 1.5 miles from campus. Off SR 23 on Ponsha. Priced mid 80’s. john1552@att.net 
$80,900 Just minutes to ND. Country Village Townhome in Georgetown. 18145 Crownhill Dr. Excellent condition. All appliances &amp;amp; washer/dryer, open floor plan, living room w/cathedral ceiling to loft/den or possible 2nd bedroom. Large 17 x 14 master, 1.5 baths, fireplace, security system. 1-car at­tached garage w/opener, corner lot. 574-532-5961 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT 
Football Rental. Available BYU and Stanford. 1BR Varsity Club. Call 847-602-8170 
Céad Mile Fáilte B+B for ND/SMC parents by ND parents 10min. from campus 2nts. min. 1-574-272-5640 
Rent Knute Rockne’s home for foot­ball weekends. 2 blocks from campus. Sleeps 8-10. Contact rentlikeacham­pion.com today! 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-appt earnparttime.com 
Math-Tutors Mathnasium seek­ing qualified math tutors. Experience working with children. 10-20hrs/week. Resumes:granger@mathnasium.com 888-850-6284 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 



MEN’S TENNIS 

irish travel to iTa regional championships 
players. The top-8 players from anything beyond that, if anyone 
By PETER STEINER 

sports writer the qualifying round advance to is fortunate enough to win the the main draw, where they face tournament, they get a spot in 
after dominating the Tom off against the top-56 players. the national indoors, which is the fallon invitational at the eck last year, the irish had 10 singles top-32 players in the country. Tennis pavilion last weekend, the players and six doubles teams “a third goal would be to see irish are looking to carry their compete in the main draws. how we fare and match up with momentum through fall break Junior greg andrews advanced some of the better teams and and into the usTa/iTa midwest the furthest of any current notre players in the midwest.” regional championships. The dame player in the singles main To accomplish these goals, event begins one week from to-draw, winning his first two the irish will look to draw from day in east lansing, mich. matches. bayliss said he believes their accomplishments this 
notre dame has already per-andrews, who experienced a past weekend at the Tom fallon formed strongly in numerous breakout season last spring, has invitational, where they won 30 events this fall, but next weekend a good chance to succeed for the of 37 singles matches and seven the team will face off against the irish this year. of 10 doubles matches at home. best teams and players from the “our own greg andrews i while bayliss said he knows midwest region. think has a chance to do well,” the experience gained from the 
“[The usTa/iTa midwest bayliss said. “There will be sev-successful invitational will be regional championships] is eral things he’ll need to do. one advantageous, he also warns open to all of the college teams in is he will need to successfully ad-against taking too much away the midwest region,” irish coach just to faster courts. Two will be from the event. bob bayliss said. “it’s prominent-for him to continue to hit aggres-“i think the momentum and ly, in terms of competing at the sively off the backhand side.” confidence we gained this week-highest level, between mostly the for andrews and the en-end should help us,” he said. “but big Ten schools and notre dame tire irish roster, the midwest what we have to remember is with a few individual players on regional championships will that we had some great results regionals.” on any thing they need,” bayliss some other teams that are capa-provide a great opportunity to this past weekend, but they were The event comes at a conve-said. ble of strong showings. achieve various fall season goals, on our own home courts against nient time for the irish, as the The irish will travel to east 
“we are pretty familiar with bayliss said. people that are visiting. team will have an entire week lansing, mich., to compete in the people that will be there and “one goal is to give the best ac-“That being said, the results free of distractions to prepare. the usTa/iTa midwest regional we’re excited about the opportu-counting of ourselves and where were terrific for us. a lot of our “The nice thing for us is that championships beginning oct. nity to go there and compete.” we are at this point in the season guys did very well. [senior] blas it’s over fall break so everyone 18 and concluding oct. 22. 
The tournament consists of that we can give,” he said. “in oth-moros had a great tournament. should be rested and not stressed a qualifying round and a main er words, to just go out and com-i feel like that this showing we out with tests because they’ll Contact Peter Steiner at draw, each of which includes 64 pete hard and play well. Then had should really help us at the have a few days to get caught up psteiner@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 



FENCING 

Irish fencers travel for North American Cup 
on the national team for the irish squad elevates the pro-
By PETER STEINER 

sports writer world championships, world gram, other olympic fencers 
cups and future olympic will return to their respective 

with the return of three games.” schools and fencing teams as olympic fencers to an already of the current irish fenc-well, raising the level of com-strong roster, the irish have ers participating in this event, petition across the board. high expectations for the up-three competed in the london “The season will be very in­coming season. olympic games this past sum-teresting because the num­
but before any collegiate mer. Junior courtney hurley, ber of the very strong teams competitions get underway, senior gerek meinhardt and is growing,” bednarski said. some of the notre dame fenc-freshman lee kiefer will each “we have a lot of good fencers ing team will travel to st. louis travel to st. louis already hav-who are coming to the differ-on oct. 12 to compete in the ing gained experience fencing ent teams including ours. The north american cup held by on the world’s biggest stage. level of the fencing should rise the us fencing association. The task for these three ath-up for the top teams and that 
more than 2,000 athletes letes, kiefer in particular, is to is good and bad. good that we will compete in the individual use their experiences overseas will have more exciting match-tournament, which includes to help them in the collegiate es and more teams who will be events for each of the three atmosphere, bednarski said. challenging us. The only bad weapons — epee, foil and sa-“gerek meinhardt and thing is predicting such events ber. The irish fencers will courtney hurley were already is harder than in the past.” compete in the division i cat-competing and both were na-while the olympic fencers egory in the event that serves tional and state champions, grab the headlines, the irish as a qualifying event for future so they know difficulties of roster also includes many world championships. collegiate fencing and the dif-strong fencers looking to make 
“[The north american ferences between the fenc-significant contributions this cup] in st. louis is not a col-ing in the olympic games,” year. bednarski said he be-championships in foil two before the collegiate season legiate event but a national bednarski said. “lee kiefer lieves these fencers will want years ago,” bednarski said. begins in november, members team try-out organized by was the finalist of the olympic to prove themselves after miss-“They are coming back without of the irish fencing team will national governing body us games but she has to learn col-ing out on the olympic team. experience in london because travel to st. louis to compete in fencing association,” irish legiate mysteries, collegiate se-“we have several return-they did not qualify. They sim-the north american cup this coach Janusz bednarski said. crets of the fight, but we think ing top fencers not from ply did not make it, but they weekend. “several of our athletes are of that they will do well.” the olympic games like will be strong too. i believe course going because they will although the addition of [sophomore] ariel desmet, they will be willing to show Contact Peter Steiner at fight for national points to be three olympic fencers to the who won national ncaa others how strong they are.” psteiner@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Teams to compete in Adidas Invitational 
By JOE WIRTH 
sports writer 
both the men’s and wom­en’s teams look to validate themselves as true national title contenders when they participate in the wisconsin adidas invitational on friday. 
The highly competitive field contains 46 schools on the men’s side, including no. 1 wisconsin. on the women’s side, no. 16 notre dame will face a field of 49 teams. 
no. 13 irish men’s coach Joe piane said friday’s meet provides the irish with an opportunity to measure 
paid adverTisemenT 
themselves against some of the best programs in the country. 
“This will be a very com­petitive meet,” piane said. “it is the most competitive meet we have been in all year. There are up to 20 nationally ranked teams in the field. The host school, wisconsin, is no. 1, so we will have our work cut out for us. but it should be a fun meet.” 

because of the strong field, piane said the meet also provides the irish good preparation for the upcom­ing big east championships and ncaa regionals and championships shortly thereafter. 
“This meet also gives us an opportunity to acquire more at-large points, which will help us get us in to the ncaas if we finish outside of the top-2 in our region,” piane said. “because of the quality of the competition we will be facing friday, it will give us a good simula­tion of what the big easts 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
and ncaas will be like. 
“we need solid contribu­tions from all of our compet­itors. it is going to have to be a total team effort if we want to be successful.” 
The women’s race will start at 1 p.m. and the men’s race will follow shortly after the conclusion of the women’s portion. The women’s race will be a 6k, while the men’s will be an 8k. 
The races will take place 

at  the  Thomas  Zimmer  
championship  cross  
country  course  at  the  

university of wisconsin in madison, wisc., on friday. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 

irish head to regional meet 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
notre dame will aim to put on a good showing against region­al opponents at the midwest regional championships in champaign, ill., which begins oct. 18. 
Though the irish are not certain yet which members of their team will be competing in the upcoming tournament, senior chrissie mcgaffigan said they are all eager to prove themselves against strong lo­cal competition. 
“we have a very strong region so the tournament will be very competitive,” mcgaffigan said. “michigan, northwestern, and ohio stat, and illinois always bring very talented players each year.” 
irish junior britney sanders earned recognition as the big east women’s Tennis player of the month for october,athe first monthly conference award for sanders. 
no matter who ends up par­ticipating in the tournament, mcgaffigan said the irish will be prepared to compete. 
“we have all been working really hard and pushing one another in practice, so i hope that it will show with our play at regionals,” mcgaffigan said. 
Team unity will be key throughout the fall break as 
“We have all been working really hard and pushing one another in practice, so I hope that it will show with our play at regionals.” 
Chrissie McGaffigan 
Senior 

the irish prepare for the five-day competition at week’s end,” mcgaffigan said 
“our teams plans on spend­ing a lot of time together on and off the court,” mcgaffigan said. “we are so lucky to have such a hardworking group of girls with such supportive coaches. everyone really en­joys being out on the court.” 
The irish continue their fall season with the midwest regional championships in champaign, ill., on oct. 18. 
 Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 



MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
for the irish, friday eve­ning marks more than the end of midterms — it marks the beginning of the team’s 2012-2013 campaign. notre dame will host the dennis stark relays, welcoming oakland, cleveland state and iupui. 
This series of relays, originally known as the notre dame relays, marks the home opener and hon­ors former irish coach dennis stark. stark gradu­ated from the university in 1947, then returned to coach the men’s squad from 1958-85 and served as the coach for the wom­en’s squad from 1981-85. he coached notre dame’s first-ever ncaa qualifiers while his teams produced six all-americans, form­ing a strong base for the program. 
This year’s team will look to begin the season with a strong start at home. 
“our first meet goal is to see how everyone races,” senior chris Johnson said. “we want to see how fast we cam go after some hard training.” 
The irish graduated seven seniors last year but added nine freshmen since the end of last season, when they took 28th place at the ncaa championships. This finish marked the highest finish in school history and the first championships in which two swimmers com­peted individually. Junior frank dyer finished fourth in the 200-yard freestyle and 39th in the 100-yard freestyle, while senior bill bass took 38th in the 100­yard butterfly and 30th in the 200-yard butterfly. on top of that, notre dame won its fifth big east conference title and went 6-4 in dual meets. 

after posting strong re­sults last season, the irish will try to get back to that same form while welcom­ing in the freshman faces, Johnson said. 
“The freshmen are do­ing well, but this weekend will let us see how fast they can go when it is for real,” he said. “we’re ready to get back to racing.” 
This weekend will bring a range of tough opponents, including oakland, a squad with a long history under its current coach pete hovland. before moving into division i, oakland was a five-time division ii champion and finished in the top three at the ncaas in 15 of 16 years. The upcoming meet will give the irish a glimpse of the golden grizzlies before facing them again in a dual meet oct. 26. 
more importantly, the event will provide notre dame with a chance to dis­
play  the  benefits  gained  
from  hard  work  in  the  
offseason.  

“it’s always exciting to see how the training we have been doing is paying off,” Johnson said. 
The relays will begin at 5 

p.m. friday evening at the rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
Team looks to first meet 
By Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 

fall break means a chance to relax for most students, but the women’s swimmers and drivers will be working toward victory in their first meet of the season. 
“i am happy that we have a meet at the end of midterms because it is a great way to de-stress and start off our fall break training and the football weekend on a good note,” senior diver kimmie lisiak said. 
This year’s season-opening stark relays will be the 48th installment of the event, which was known as the notre dame relays until the name was changed in 2003 to honor former men’s and women’s swim coach dennis stark. The irish will host cleveland state, oakland, iupui and illinois state. 
as the name implies, most of the meet’s events are team-based — even for the divers. 
“The diving team is espe­cially excited for the syn­chronized 3-meter diving event because we only get to compete in that once a year,” lisiak said. “it’s fun for us because we pair up with a teammate who has similar dives and compete together.” 
after a week of midterm exams and papers, the condi­tions might not seem ripe for setting personal records. but senior freestyler and fly spe­cialist lauren scott said the team is ready to race. 
“collegiate swimming is always about balancing school work and swimming,” 
“Collegiate swimming is always about balancing school work and swimming. Midterms add a challenge, but our team typically performs well academically and in the pool.” 
Lauren Scott 
Senior swimmer 
scott said. “midterms add a challenge, but our team typi­cally performs well academi­cally and in the pool. i think regardless of the point in the season, we need to take ad­vantage of each opportunity to race. we will definitely be looking for good perfor­mances to get us excited as our training continues.” 
senior backstroke and fly specialist kim holden 
paid adverTisemenT 
echoed scott’s sentiments. 
“we’ve been working re­ally hard in the water and the weight room, but we understand that if we can train our bodies to race well when we’re tired that when we’re rested in february and march we’ll have some excit­ing performances,” holden said. 
many of the swimmers said they enjoy easing into the season with a relay meet. 
“The team is definitely looking forward to the relay meet this friday,” holden said. “it’s a great way to kick off our season because the events are fun and it’s a very team-oriented meet.” 
scott said she also appreci­ates the tradition associated with the event. 
“The relay meet is a good way to start the season and a great tradition,” scott said. “i think we all get very com­petitive because it is our first meet, but it is also a great way to get excited about our dual meets.” 
The irish jump into the pool for the first time this season at 5 p.m. friday at the rolfs aquatic center. 
contact vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse @nd.edu 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



ND VOLLEYBALL 

irish to take on depaul in chicago 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
notre dame will travel to chicago on friday to take on depaul as they approach the middle stretch of their conference schedule. 
riding a three-game winning streak, the irish (12-6, 5-1 big east) are looking to continue their recent success. The blue demons (6-13, 1-5), meanwhile, are look­ing to snap a three-game skid. irish junior outside hitter and captain andrea mchugh said the team feels prepared for their match. 
“we have done pretty well against depaul in the past,” she said. “They haven’t been the most dynamic or physical team, but have continued to get better each year i have been [at notre dame]. They have a pretty balanced at­tack and some tough servers, but nothing we can’t handle.” 
The momentum from notre dame’s recent string of wins should also factor into its game plan friday night. mchugh said the irish are eager to continue that streak. 

“[The streak] keeps us hun­gry and wanting more,” she said. “we come into the gym each day wanting to get better with the goal in mind to extend our win­ning streak.” 
mchugh said the team is hap­py but not satisfied with its cur­rent position among their big east competition and are look­ing to continue to better them­selves within the conference this weekend. 
“we need to continue to im­prove on point scoring, whether it’s from blocking, serving, de­fense or transition plays,” she said. 
sophomore right side hitter Jeni houser has been a key contribu­tor for the irish of late, and she was named to the big east weekly honor role for her performance last weekend. 
The irish will look for a team ef­fort this weekend when they take on the blue demons. action is set to begin in chicago at 8 p.m. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Golfers head to Oklahoma 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 

coming off a successful show­ing at the windy city collegiate classic, the no. 17 irish are back at full strength and prepared to take on the competition at the susie maxwell berning classic hosted by no. 14 oklahoma. 
The irish were without sopho­more ashley armstrong, 2012 depth to the lineup. it will take the pressure off the four other girls. we were playing at a disadvantage last time, but [armstrong] is a very positive addition.” 
The field of the susie maxwell berning classic consists of sev­en top-50 teams in addition to the irish. notre dame’s toughest competition will be oklahoma and no. 15 Texas Tech, holt said. 

“Last tournament, the field was extremely strong ... This time, I think we have a really good opportunity to come away with a win. If you look at current rankings, we are probably a favorite to 
win.” 
Susan Holt Irish coach 

big east rookie of the year and big east tournament champion, in the windy city classic due to a right foot injury. This time around, notre dame will have one of its top players back. 
“ashley has been cleared by our training staff,” irish coach susan holt said. “she will be competing this weekend. her coming back will add instant The red raiders finished eighth in the windy city collegiate classic, right behind the irish, in the windy city classic. 
“last tournament, the field was extremely strong,” holt said. “This time, i think we have a really good opportunity to come away with a win. if you look at current rankings, we are probably a favorite to win.” 

however, holt said she ex­pects a significant challenge from the sooners. 
“oklahoma will be really tough at home,” holt said. “it will take a lot to overcome [its] home-field advantage.” 
an irish player winning the tournament is also pos­sible, holt said. armstrong, irish sophomore kelli oride and freshmen lindsey weaver 
— who finished second at the windy city classic — and Talia campbell are all candidates to win the tournament, she said. 
“any of our players are ca­pable of winning any tourna­ment we play in,” holt said. “[campbell] has been playing very well and consistently and [oride] has been solid. [oride] has had a good start and came back from her summer playing well. we have a team of solid competitors. That’s what makes us so strong.” 
The irish head down to norman, okla., to begin compe­tition monday as they search for their first tournament win of the season. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Clark 
conTinued from page 24 
“we have to take a good look at the tapes and digest the northwestern game, then put a plan together,” clark said. 
The irish do not know what to expect out of a historically hot-and-cold seton hall team, clark said. 
“you never know what seton hall team is going to show up,” clark said. “last year, when uconn was number one in the 
Waldrum 
conTinued from page 24 
goals since,” waldrum said. “having [laddish, roccaro and williams] in midfield has created many opportunities for the forwards. we’ll take the numbers we’ve had on of­fense, and we feel confident that we can score.” 
notre dame will look to keep its unbeaten streak alive when it travels to face georgetown (12-1-2, 6-0-1) in a crucial conference show­down. with three games left in their respective conference schedules, the irish and hoyas are currently tied atop the national division standings. 
waldrum said the match with the hoyas is one the irish have been awaiting for quite some time. 
“it’s exactly the type of matchup you would hope for, since it’s two top teams bat­tling each other late in the 
Jackson 
conTinued from page 24 
— in addition to an exhibi­tion against new brunswick on sunday. 
Jackson said he does not expect maine’s extra game to have a huge impact. 
“it might [help maine], having an extra game,” he said. “but it’s an extra day of practice they lost, too. so i think it works out the same, really. maybe a little more of an advantage from a game conditioning stand­point, the competitive part of it, but it will be pretty much the same for everyone there.” 
Jackson said the irish will still be looking at different lineup possibilities — at both forward and defense 
— for the year as the season commences this weekend. There will already be one notable change in friday’s roster with the return of ju­nior left wing Jeff costello, who missed sunday’s ex­hibition to injury. costello will push freshman Thomas dipauli to center, which forces junior david gerths to right wing. 
irish junior goaltender steven summerhays will get the start in net against maine. summerhays backed country and hadn’t loss in the big east and seton hall had not won a game in the big east yet, seton hall beat them.” 
seton hall’s long-time coach manny schellscheidt retired last year and assistant coach gerson echeverry has since assumed the position of head coach. clark said he does not know how this change has af­fected seton hall as a team. 
“seton hall is always pretty good,” clark said. “usually, they are very technical and skillful. They have a new 
year,” waldrum said. “we’ll have our hands full, since they’re very similar to us. They are very possession-ori­ented and there’s not much we can exploit since they’re solid all around.” 
currently enjoying its high­est ranking in school history, georgetown features a potent offense lead by standout soph­omore midfielder daphne corboz, who is tied for first nationally in scoring with 15 goals on the season. The hoyas have relied on a strong defensive unit and the play of redshirt freshman goalkeep­er emily newins, who was tabbed big east rookie of the week on monday. 
notre dame will close its weekend with a trip to villanova (6-7-2, 4-3-0), who currently sits third in the national division standings. after struggling to a 1-4-2 start, the wildcats have won five of their last eight match­es. waldrum said the matchup 
up senior mike Johnson much of last season before solidifying the starting job in the season’s final six weeks. 
Jackson said summerhays’ play and consistency earned him an increased opportunity. 
“goaltending’s confi­dence based,” Jackson said. “because i had a junior [last season] that i do have a lot of trust in in mike Johnson, mike got the opportunity to come back and play games even after a loss, which steven didn’t get, and now he’s earned that, based on his performance in the sec­ond half of the year. he’s probably going to be able to play back-to-back games on a more regular basis.” 
Jackson said he expects Johnson to play in one of the first four non-conference games to keep him fresh, though the coach is unsure at this point which game the senior will start. 
The irish play maine in the opening game of the ice breaker Tournament at 7 p.m. on friday in kansas city, mo. notre dame will face either army or nebraska-omaha on saturday. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
coach this year, so we are not quite sure how they will play.” 
clark said he believes the game will be a tight matchup. 
“every time we go there, it is always a close game,” clark said. “it is never easy, so i wouldn’t expect this one to be any different. i have never had an easy game at seton hall. we are preparing for a tough game.” 
seton hall will rely on two players in particular — ju­nior forwards max garcia and george velasquez — to lead 
with villanova is the type of game that concerns him. 
“i’m worried about villanova because it’s a tough place to play, and we’ll be coming off a high-intensity game,” waldrum said. “They’re fully capable of giving everyone [problems] in the conference a game, and we’ll really have to get the team focused once we get past friday’s game.” 
senior forward heidi sabatura, who is tied for sec­ond in the conference with seven assists, leads villanova’s offensive attack, while senior goalkeeper kelsey Quinn has been a force for the team at the other end of the pitch. 
notre dame will face georgetown on friday at 3 
p.m. at north kehoe field in washington, d.c., before playing villanova on sunday at 12 p.m. at the vu soccer complex in villanova, penn. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
the pirates against the irish. garcia has amassed six goals and three assists for 15 points this season, while velasquez has three goals and three as­sists for nine points. This duo makes up more than half of the 16 total goals and 11 total assists for the pirates. 
although the loss at northwestern was a setback, clark said the artificial turf field at lakeside field in evanston, ill., helps the irish prepare for the artificial turf at owen T. carroll field in new Jersey. both fields are products of the same artificial turf company, fieldTurf. 

“it is another game on fieldTurf,” clark said. “our guys play quite well on turf, so it should not be a problem for us.” 
The irish seek to take one step closer to the big east playoffs as they head to south orange, n. J., on saturday to take on seton hall. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTrick cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: dale earnhardt Jr., 38; mario lopez, 39; wendi mclendon-covey, 43; bradley whitford, 53. 
Happy Birthday: focus on the positive and engage in creative endeavors. learn from experience as well as from those skilled at something you want to pursue. a trip or physical move will do you good. follow your basic instinct and avoid having regrets. your numbers are 2, 7, 19, 22, 25, 34, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take control; make changes. discussing your plans with your peers or boss will help you get a better perspective on how you can take a step in a direction that allows you to use your skills more efficiently and profitably. expand your interests. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): do your best to help others. a relationship with some­one from a different background or with an unusual past will develop. don’t be too quick to agree to partner with someone without having all the facts and figures worked out beforehand. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t exaggerate or make promises you cannot keep. someone will be looking for an excuse to make you look bad. stick to what you know and do best, and don’t presume to be something you are not. abide by the rules. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take an interest in a hobby, activity or event that will in­troduce you to a different way of doing things or people who are different from you. love is in the stars. partnerships will enhance your life. strive for perfection. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): limitations and frustrations due to older or younger family members or a lack of funds will cause stress. you need to change your surroundings or do something different in order to get a new perspective on your life and what you want. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): focus and take care of your responsibilities. what you accomplish will impress someone who can help you advance and help you get revenge regarding someone who has done you an injustice in the past. discipline and moderation will be required. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): readjust your way of thinking regarding your past, pres­ent and future prospects. you may need to change the way you do things in order to benefit the most from what you have to offer. learn from your past in order to make better choices.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): creativity will be the key to your emotional wellness. don’t waste time on jealousy when you are capable of doing your own thing and doing it well. spending quality time with someone who shares your interests will enhance your relationship.  


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): exploring different places, interests or people who are a little bit eccentric will help open up ideas that can lead to your own spiritual or philosophic growth. don’t let an insecure friend or lover lead you in the wrong direction. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): focus on your finances and invest in your talents, skills and ideas. conversations with people you respect or who work in a similar industry will help you expand your plans and raise issues you may not have consid­ered in the past. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): spend time taking care of your interests. expect others to meddle in your affairs if you are too open about your plans. put more em­phasis on home, family and how you can utilize your space to increase your income or lower your overhead. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): contracts, money, legal or medical matters can all be taken care of with confidence. your discipline will impress others and entice a partnership that will help you get an endeavor up and running. a promise can be made. 


Birthday Baby: you are observant, sensitive, proactive and productive. you welcome a challenge. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish look to road tilt 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
after a tough road loss to northwestern, no. 7 notre dame looks to bounce back on the road in a big east showdown against seton hall. 
The irish (10-3-0, 2-2-0 big east) need this win against the pirates (6-6-0, 2-1-0) in order to take another step toward gaining a berth in the big east tournament as one of the top-5 teams, irish coach bobby clark said. 

“There are a lot of big things coming up after this game,” clark said. “The [big east championships] are ap­proaching and we want to be in the top five, but more importantly the top three, so we can get a bye. The four and five team have a play-in game, and we don’t want that. it’s not going to be easy every other game, has huge though. There are four teams implications. with a win, we in the blue division who are get a road win and we are in the top 15 of the country getting closer to one of those and only three of us can get a top-3 spots.” bye. so, this game, as well as clark said the coaches and players have gone over tapes of the northwestern game and are working to fix some small issues. 
see clark PAGE 22 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

first place on line in hoya matchup 

By Brian Hartnett 
sports writer 
riding an unbeaten streak of eight games, no. 24 notre dame will battle for first place in the big east when it travels to no. 11 georgetown on friday. The irish will then round out the weekend with a tough road test at villanova on sunday. 
last weekend, notre dame (10-3-2, 6-0-1 big east) wrapped up its final home stand of the season with a win and a tie. The irish erupted for five goals in a 5-1 victory over seton hall on friday and held on to tie rutgers 2-2 in a rainy match sunday afternoon. 
irish head coach randy waldrum said he is confident his team will rebound well from its first conference tie. 
“i felt that we played pretty well last weekend,” waldrum said. “we made a couple mis­takes on a wet field [against rutgers] and got punished for it. we were really sharp in our practices this week, and the in­tensity level was very good.” 
one key component behind notre dame’s success last weekend was the team’s of­fensive output. The irish out-shot their opponents by a 44-12 margin en route to scoring a total of seven goals over the two contests. Junior midfielder elizabeth Tucker and fresh­man forward crystal Thomas both had multi-goal games, as Tucker scored twice against seton hall and Thomas ac­counted for both of the team’s two goals against rutgers. 
waldrum said he feels the irish have developed a strong offensive identity, largely fa­cilitated by the midfield trio of junior mandy laddish and freshmen cari roccaro and glory williams. 
“[roccaro’s] comfort level is midfield, so we moved her back there three games ago, and we’ve scored 11 
see waldrum PAGE 22 
HOCKEY 

Team travels to Kansas City for tournament 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
more than seven months after a disappointing sea­son concluded with a ccha-tournament loss at michigan, the no. 13 irish hit the ice against the black bears of maine in their sea­son-opening contest friday night. 
The irish will be one of four teams in the ice breaker Tournament in kansas city, mo., this weekend. in ad­dition to notre dame and maine (0-1-0), army and nebraska-omaha will participate. 

The irish have had less than a week of practice and played only one exhibi­tion game, a 1-1 tie against the united states under-18 team sunday. irish coach Jeff Jackson said the lack of practice time has hindered notre dame’s ability to pre­pare specifically for maine, as the irish are concerned juniors, and trying to inte-it’s probably more important ago. maine senior captain unlike notre dame, maine primarily with themselves. grate only four freshmen, to work on concepts than and forward Joey diamond has played a regular season however, the veteran irish they understand most of the specific systems.” leads the black bears. game already — a 2-1 loss to squad should adjust easier system already,” Jackson a future hockey east diamond tallied 47 points Quinnipiac on saturday than previous years. said. “it’s just a matter of a counterpart, maine reached last season and was fourth in 
“with having so many quick refresher for them. so the ncaa tournament a year the ncaa in goals per game. see Jackson PAGE 22 




