
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Professor discusses President’s speech 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Political Science professor David Campbell said Presi­dent Barack Obama’s State of the Union address Tuesday was clear evidence the presi­dent is “moving into campaign mode.” 
“This is not what we saw in the first year or two of the Obama administration,” Campbell said. “This is Obama making an argument for his reelection and for his Demo­cratic view of the way govern­ment ought to be involved in the economy.” 
Campbell, who is also the founding director of the Rooney Center for the Study of American Democracy, said the speech had the usual con­straints of a State of the Union address. Obama had to cite major issues, remain optimis­tic and appeal to his constitu­encies. 
“This was a pretty sprawl­ing and expansive speech. It was also a fairly long speech,” he said. “I do think his speech can be contrasted with last year’s speech, in that this one really marks the beginning of the 2012 presidential cam­paign.” 

Campbell said that un­like past years, Obama took a clear stance on issues and pointed out the congressional obstruction of governmental goals. 
“Barack Obama was elected on the terms that he would be a post-partisan president. He tried … but he’s not going to do that anymore. He’s going to [draw] sharp distinctions,” Campbell said. 

Obama was also more di­rect in this speech than he had been in the past, Camp­bell said. 
“He’s definitely beginning to lay out his argument. He was quite explicit. [For example] he did want to see govern­ment investing in clean en­ergy,” Campbell said. 
Republican Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana delivered the GOP rebuttal to the State of the Union on Tuesday, re­sponding specifically to the 

see UNION/page 4 
STUDENT SENATE 
Assembly approves resolution 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Student Senate passed a resolu­tion amending the responsibility of the Executive Programming Board and discussed sustainabil­ity at its meeting Wednesday. The student government branch also examined gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and questioning (GLBTQ) issues. 
The Executive Programming Board is the division of student government that facilitates the coordination of its various pro­gramming groups. 
The resolution stipulates that the Board will use an online pro­gramming calendar to improve communication between the Stu­dent Union groups and will be required to meet three times an-


see SENATE/page 5 

ND fire department appoints new chief 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
When Bruce Harrison learned of his recent appointment as fire chief of the Notre Dame Fire De­partment, he knew his career was taking a step in an exciting di­rection. 
“I was a little bit over­whel med and defi­nitely ap­preciative,” Harrison said.  “This is a fantastic opportunity, both for myself and for my family.” 
Harrison, who will take over as chief on March 1, will come to Notre Dame with 30 years of ex­perience at the DeKalb, Ill., Fire Department under his belt. He said he is confident the guidance of his new colleagues will help him adjust smoothly to the re­sponsibilities of his new position. 
“I trust that there’s a lot of ex­perience and dedication in the [Notre Dame] Fire Department that will greatly assist me in transitioning into situations that may be somewhat different or have some sort of variation,” Har­rison said. 

Harrison said his experience in DeKalb has prepared him for any challenges he might face at Notre Dame, including fire prevention, emergency response, suppres­sion of hostile fire and public fire education. 
“There’s definitely a great deal of similarity between what I’m doing in DeKalb and what I’ll be responsible for doing here at Notre Dame,” Harrison said. 
Harrison began his career in the DeKalb Fire Department with a strong desire to protect the safety of his community and to rescue those in danger. 
“For me, there has been no higher calling than to be of ser­vice to those in need and in cri­sis,” Harrison said.  “My career in the fire service has been about meeting the needs of the commu­nity through preparedness, pre­vention and response.” 
Harrison said he is grateful for the opportunity to become a part of Notre Dame’s history. 
“I appreciate the tradition and the heritage that is the University 


see CHIEF/page 5 

Center hosts service agencies 
By CAROLYN GARCIA 
News Writer 
Local non-profit organiza­tions and student-run ser­vice groups joined together to showcase the plethora of social service opportunities available for Notre Dame stu­dents both on campus and in the South Bend community at the Social Concerns Fair on Wednesday. 
Annie Cahill Kelly, director of Community Partnership and Service Learning at the Center for Social Concerns (CSC), has invited South Bend service organizations to the Social Concerns Fair for 13 of the event’s more than 20 in­stallments. 

She said surveys from these partner organizations demon­strate the impressive participa­tion of Notre Dame students in community outreach over the past few years. 
“The agencies are reporting back to us that they’ve had over 3,000 student involved at all 60 organizations that I’ve peti­tioned,” Kelly said. “That’s not even a thorough count because it’s only 60 organizations and there are many more, but it’s a snapshot of just how many stu­dents are involved locally, pro­viding some 180,000 plus hours of service. A lot of the students are doing a lot of great work.“ 

Several of the South Bend or­ganizations represented at the fair have had a long history of involvement with the CSC. 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS As­sist of Northern Indiana, which provides a variety of services for people living with HIV and AIDS in the six-county area, has been associated with the CSC for more than 20 years, said Debra Stanley, the CSC’s Community-Based Learning Coordinator for the organization. 
Stanley inherited the duty of representing AIDS Ministries at Notre Dame’s Activities Night when she began volunteering for the organization in 1992. 
“I came that first night and have been coming ever since,” she said. “Being involved led me to the CSC where I became a Community-Based Learn­ing Coordinator, and so it’s just been a relationship ever since.” 
Student service groups also participated in the fair to dis­tribute information and talk to potential volunteers. 
Senior Monica Townsend represented the Notre Dame chapter of She’s the First, a non­profit organization that raises funds to promote education for girls in developing countries. Townsend said the group’s de­
see FAIR/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Center for Social concerns hosts fair  page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u ‘Shame’ movie review page 8 u Men’s basketball beats Seton Hall page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Thursday, January 26 , 2012 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU DO DIFFERENTLY IF YOU KNEW THE WORLD WAS ENDING? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Sebastian Rojas  Rachel Talley  Pierre Guobadia  Sabine Mosal  Keith Wertsching  Kate Christian  
freshman Sorin  junior Lyons  sophomore Fisher  freshman Lyons  freshman Stanford  freshman Pangborn  
“I would do more religious stuff.”  “Quit going to school.”  “Travel the world, not be  “Live life like it was summer.”  “Take a trip to China.”  “Listen to every piece of recorded  
here.”  music.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Spelling error corrected on road outside school zone 
NEW YORK — An em­barrassing misspelling of “school” is gone from the street outside a New York City school building. 
Utility workers used heavy machinery to grind up the wrongly placed “H” and “C” in the “SHCOOL X-NG” sign on Tuesday. 
The correction was made a day after the New York Post reported the spelling error. 
The words were created with industrial textured tape that permanently sticks to the asphalt. 
The Consolidated Edi­son utility told the Post the blunder occurred when a contractor ripped up the street for utility work and replaced the existing mark­ings. It says the mistake outside the Manhattan building that houses three schools had been there since July 2010. 
Man robs bank upon release from Oregon state prison 
EUGENE, Ore. — Authori­ties say it was a busy morn­ing for a man released from an Oregon state prison. Af­ter a bus ride home to Eu­gene on a state-paid ticket, they say he held up a bank at 
10:02 a.m. Tuesday and was back in custody three min­utes later. 
The Register-Guard re­ports that 48-year-old Adam Ashe had been behind bars since May 2009, when Rose-burg police arrested him in connection with a fire in a post office trash can. Police said Ashe told them he want­ed to burn down the post of­fice because he was angry about troops being sent to Iraq and Afghanistan. 
He was convicted of arson last year and released early Tuesday. 
Eugene police Officer Kirk Farley was sitting in his pa­trol car outside a Home Fed­eral Bank branch on Tues­day when Ashe robbed it. Farley made the arrest. 
An FBI court affidavit says Ashe has confessed to the bank robbery. It wasn’t im­mediately known if he has an attorney. 
Blair says Kombate re­mains in jail. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
An opening reception for the exhibit “Roots of Our Father” will be held in O’Shaugnessy Hall from 5 to 7 p.m. tonight. The exhibit will be on display in the ISIS Gallery through February 19. 
Campus ministry will hold a Christian unity prayer ser­vice tonight from 6 to 7 p.m. in Keenan Hall. 
The film “Le Quattro Volte (The Four Times)” will be shown in the DeBartolo Per­forming Arts Center from 7 to 8:30 p.m. tonight. The film is in Italian with English subtitles. Tickets cost $3 for students and $6 regular ad­mission. 
The Center for Social Con­cerns will host a discussion in the Soup and Substance series in the Geddes Hall Coffee House from 12 to 1 
p.m. tomorrow. The discus­sion topic is race and two race monologues will be read. Free soup will be pro­vided. 
The Men’s and Women’s Swimming and Diving teams will compete in the Sham­rock Invitational tomorrow. The meet will be held in the Rolfs Aquatic Center begin­ning at 5 p.m. Admission is free for students. 
The Notre Dame Gong Fu Club will host an informa­tional meeting in Room 109 of Rockne  Memorial from 
5:15 to 6:15 p.m. tomorrow. ND/SMC/HCC students, fac­ulty, and staff of all ages are invited to attend. No martial arts experience is required. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Kristen Durbin Anna Boarini Christian Myers 
Graphics 
Elisa De Castro 
Photo 
Mackenzie Sain 
Sports 

Andrew Owens Walker Carey Matthew Robison 
Scene 

Alexandria Kilpatrick 
Viewpoint 
LOCAL WEATHER 
HIGH 32 LOW 29 
HIGH 38 LOW 27 
HIGH 34 LOW 22 

HIGH 25 LOW 18 
HIGH 34 LOW 29 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
Caroline Lang 









CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Thursday, January 26, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
SGA to change voting structure 
By CAILIN CROWE 
News Writer 
The Student Government Association (SGA) at Saint Mary’s College announced in its meeting Wednesday that it will make major changes to its basic structure, giving Saint Mary’s students more diverse representation in the voting process, SGA execu­tive secretary Emma Brink said. 
After concluding last se­mester with a preliminary vote to change the structure of SGA, President Nicole Gans said the organization is fo­cusing on answering a few basic questions this semester regarding the restructuring of SGA. 
“What ways can SGA be structured to best fit the students need?” Gans said. “What is going to happen? What is going to change?” 
Brink said these changes include restructuring the voting body of the organiza­tion into five councils and one senate, rather than the current board of 25 commis­sioners and the 8-member executive board. 
“SGA hopes that the new structure will include a board of unbiased voting mem­bers in the Senate, a focused group of Councils to produce new ideas and programming, a more efficient flow of in­formation and, overall, more participation within SGA,” she said. 
Gans said she is optimistic about the restructuring of SGA with regard to student opinions and collaboration between students and the College’s administration and faculty. 

“I hope that the new struc­ture gives more people a voice on student government,” she said. “We are attempting to build an inclusive system that promotes relationships with administration and fac­ulty.” 
Brink said SGA is currently operating under a hybrid of the old and new structures, and complete changes will occur along with student gov­ernment turnover on April 1. The turnover process and the new structure will involve more students in new roles, Brink said. 
“Now that students can run for Senator positions, the election process this year will be much more exciting and dynamic,” she said. “At the same time, students who prefer working behind-the­scenes can apply for Coun­cil positions as committee chairs or members. “ 
Instead of having the class boards and club presidents comprise the board of com­missioners, the new councils will represent various student interest groups, including the Student Academic Coun­cil and the councils of Ac­tivities, Clubs, Class Boards and Committee Chairs, Brink said. The president, vice president, treasurer, secre­tary and chief of staff of SGA will each serve as the head of one of the five councils. 
Brink said the council members will be appointed by interviews conducted by the SGA president or by in­dividual academic depart­ments. However, this process will not appoint class board presidents and the Student Activity Board, Resident Hall Association and Student Di­versity Board presidents. 
Position names will also be changed to incorporate the full responsibilities of each position, Brink said. The ex­ecutive treasurer and secre­tary will now be vice presi­dents of Finance and Internal Affairs, respectively, and the chief of staff will now serve as the vice president of Ex­ternal Affairs. 
Brink said the new Senate will be comprised of 15 stu­dents who are not currently members of SGA, and these students cannot serve on any of the five new councils. 
Since Senate members will represent a variety of student perspectives and interests, such as class years, dorms, clubs and other student or­ganizations, Brink said she hopes the Senate will provide opportunities for the fresh­man class to get more in­volved on campus and pursue leadership roles. 
“While this restructuring process will take time, SGA hopes that our work will re­sult in a more efficient board and a broader, more diverse group of leaders represent­ing the Student Body,” Brink said. 
Gans said she hopes the new system will comple­ment the success of the current administration. “I am so proud of the current administration for all of their hard work,” she said. “I hope [our successors] will find the new structure is more effi­cient, allows for more effec­tive communication, and that it will allow them to focus on important issues.” 
Contact Cailin Crowe at ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 

MLK panel series discusses race, sports 

By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
In developing this year’s third annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Series for the Study of Race, Assistant Director for Multi­cultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS) Tobias Blake and First Year of Studies Pro­fessor Oliver Jenkins decided to explore the complex rela­tionship between race and ath­letics in the United States. 
“When approaching the se­ries this year, we first and fore­most decided our objectives,” Blake said. “We wanted to bring awareness to the subject, further educate and develop a deeper understanding of the issues and, most importantly, inspire people to action. Race and sport is a complex inter­sect, but we didn’t want to shy away from this complexity.” 
Titled “Playing with Fire: Race and Sport in American Culture,” the series is spon­sored by MSPS and began Wednesday with a panel dis­cussion. The speakers fea­tured Raghib “Rocket” Ismail, a former Notre Dame football All-American, Briann Janu­ary, a current WNBA player for the Indiana Fever, and Dwight “Doc” Gooden, a former major league pitcher and Cy Young award winner. 
Blake said he hopes the panel discussion will engage Notre Dame students, faculty and the surrounding community. 
“We are trying to involve more people in the conversa­tion by dealing with a subject with far-reaching potential,” Blake said. “Race and sport in American culture brings a lot of people together to discuss the inequalities still perpetu­ated in our nation and here at Notre Dame.” 
Prior to the panel, Iris Out­law, director of MSPS, dis­cussed the significance of race and sports in society in her opening address. 
“Race and sports inform and influence American society,” she said. “Sports serve as an appropriate model of and a mi­crocosm of American society in a profound way.” 
Keith Embray, associate di­rector of Student Welfare and Development, prompted the panel participants to discuss the first time they became aware of their race and the role it played and continues to play in their personal athletic endeavors. 
In response to this question, January spoke about her ex­perience as one of a few Afri­can-American athletes in her Washington hometown. 
“Growing up in Spokane, Washington, a predominantly white city, I have always been immersed in a different ra­cial culture,” January said. “I have always been the token of the team. As I made my way through the basketball circuit, I realized even my teammates had stereotyped different teams based on their race.” 
Rather than focusing on the stereotypes surrounding Afri­can-American athletes, Gooden explained how baseball helped him achieve his version of the American dream. 
“Growing up as a kid, the American dream was having a job, being respectful and gaining respect from others,” Gooden said. “Once I made it in sports, I felt fulfilled in a way. I never had the goal of winning a bunch of rewards. I just wanted to play the game and have per­sonal success.” 
January, Gooden and Ismail agreed about the dangers of the media and its representa­tions of professional athletic culture, especially its tendency to present images of prosper­ous African-American athletes to children without also show­ing other professional possi­bilities. 
“Whatever shapes your imag­ination controls your destiny,” Ismail said. “In the black com­munity, the love of money has taken the hearts and captured the imagination of the culture. Whatever is the vehicle allow­ing you to get the god of this world [money] is what you fo­cus on. Athletics is a vehicle to this god.” 
Gooden expressed a similar attitude towards the represen­tation of professional athletes in the media. 
“I think young athletes watch TV and see the salaries of pro­fessional athletes,” he said. “They embrace this quick way to success.” 
The series will continue with discussions featuring promi­nent athletes, coaches and uni­versity athletic directors every Wednesday through Feb. 15. 
Contact Aubrey Butts at abutts@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Thursday, January 26, 2012 
Professor reflects on Republican primaries 
By TAYLOR COUILLARD­RODAK 
News Writer 
The unpredictable Repub­lican primary elections have decreased the chance of the party’s nomination of a strong opponent to face Pres­ident Barack Obama in the November general election, according to Michael Kramer, associate professor of Com­munication Studies at Saint Mary’s College. 
Despite the relative state of chaos throughout the primary season thus far, Kramer said some trends have emerged among the candidates. 
“The big 

trend has “Many of the voters are of behavior been the left alienated by the makes you changi ng debates. They want the shake your winners, focus to be on improving head a little from [Rick] the economy instead bit about the Santorum debates and 
of several social issues 
down in how they’re 
that, for now, are not 
Iowa, then being han­
the most pressing 
[Mitt] Rom-dled.” 
things in their mind.” 
ney, and then But the de­most surpris-bates have ingly [Newt] Michael Kramer openly dis-Gingrich in associate professor played can-
South Caroli­na,” he said. “No one has been able to get any sort of momentum or hold onto it.” 
Kramer said each candi­date faces personal obstacles on the road to the election, and these obstacles have hin­dered the candidates from accumulating solid voter sup­port that will last through the November general election. 
“With Romney, [people] talk about his financial status and how he is part of the one per­cent. People will be looking to see how they can portray him to look as sort of an elite, an out of touch wealthy person,” he said. “With Gingrich, he has to deal with some of his past activities in relation to his funding.” 
Kramer said the status of the economy is the most per­tinent issue for voters dur­ing this election season, es­pecially in terms of finding a candidate they can trust to lead the country out of its current economic doldrums.
 “There’s a scrutiny of the financial status of the can­didates now that the voters, especially in South Carolina, turn their attention on be­cause they are looking for someone who isn’t tied too closely to big businesses or to lobbying,” Kramer said. 
“Right now they’re not really finding someone who totally fits that bill.” 
While voters generally look to debates for information about candidates, Kramer said the debates thus far have seemed to disappoint voters in their almost theat­rical quality, as evidenced by sketch comedy shows and news reports mocking the de­bates. 
“At times, [the debates] have been somewhat of a spectacle.  You’ve had the au­dience playing somewhat of a participatory role, in terms of applauding and cheering cer­tain things,” he said. “That type 
didates’ 
campaig n 
strategies to voters, Kramer said. 
“Gingrich is being rough and tumble. He is using really sharp language, doing some name-calling. That’s not the type of campaigning that Romney is comfortable do­ing,” Kramer said. “They’ve shown which candidates can handle the rough and tumble of campaigning. Romney has not stood up as well to the at­tacks, where Gingrich has.” 
Kramer added the debates have focused heavily on so­cial issues, but he thinks voters would prefer to hear candidates’ ideas about the current economic state of the nation and how they will be personally affected by poten­tial future economic policies. 
“Many of the voters are left alienated by the debates. They want the focus to be on improving the economy in­stead of several social issues that, for now, are not the most pressing things in their mind,” Kramer said. “They want a job, to have more spending money, to have higher wages. That’s what they want the candidates to talk about.” 
Contact Taylor Couillard-Rodak at tcouil01@saintmarys.edu 
Union 
continued from page 1 
president’s claim that Re­publicans are obstacles to economic progress. 
Daniels said Obama was overly optimistic in his as­sessment of the country’s economic well-being. 
“When President Obama claims that the state of our union is anything but grave,” Daniels said, “he must know in his heart that this is not true.” 

Campbell said Obama and Daniels’ speeches plainly put issues on the table and gave voters the opportunity to decide on those issues for themselves. 
“I thought the State of the Union address and the re­sponse from Mitch Daniels was politics the way it ought to be done,” Campbell said. “Voters heard two different perspectives on what govern­ment should be doing. In all seriousness, I thought voters could walk away from those two speeches having learned something.” 
Campbell said the annual addresses are challenging for presidents because they must hold firmly to some key Amer­ican ideas. 
“Presidents have to pick their language carefully. They all have to say the state of the union is fundamental­ly strong, moving forward,” Campbell said. “[Presi­dent Obama] struck a tone of, ‘Things have been bad, they’re getting better and they’re better than most peo­ple think.’” 
Campbell also said the 
U.S. president is in a unique position since he is both the head of state and the head of government — a tension that comes to the surface in the State of the Union. 

He said in some ways, the president plays a similar role to a figure like the Queen of England since he is the face of the American people. 
And Americans are an “optimistic people” who don’t like “doom and gloom,” Campbell said. 
Still, Republican candidate Mitt Romney used Obama’s optimism as ammunition when he told voters in Flori­da on Wednesday the speech was “detached from reality.” 
Campbell said such state­ments are not unusual from the Republican opposition. 
“That’s a common argu­ment not just from Rom­ney, but from other Repub­licans, that [Obama’s] is an administration that doesn’t understand the way Amer­ica works,” Campbell said. “There’s [always] this un­dercurrent … in the Republi­can criticism of Obama.” 
Campbell said Obama’s call to narrow the income gap is another major divid­ing point between the two parties. 
“What the Republicans want to emphasize is a na­tion where everyone feels like they can get ahead,” Campbell said. “The Demo­crats will want to emphasize this is a country where we help those who have been left behind … [They] want to equalize things, make sure everyone has a fair shot.” 
If the Republican Par­ty nominates Romney as its presidential candidate, Campbell said the issue of America’s income gap will play a dominant role. 
As Obama enters the elec­tion year, Campbell said the country’s unemployment rate will be his biggest chal­lenge to reelection. 
“The very top of the list is the economy … The presi­dent is facing a very high un­employment rate that doesn’t want to budge,” Campbell said. “Jobs are coming back, but it’s still very high and, frankly, everything else will be subsumed under a debate on the economy.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 



Thursday, January 26, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
class, and also for something to 
Fair 
do over the weekends now that 


continued from page 1 
sire to expand their outreach ef­forts motivated its participation in the Social Concerns Fair. 
“We are hoping this semes­ter to branch out to the South Bend community and work with elementary schools that would like to get involved with She’s the First and think about what education means in the develop­ing world, as well as at home,” Townsend said. 
Freshman Libby Wetterer at­tended the fair to find service op­portunities that fit her interests and schedule. 
“I’m looking for volunteer work to do in Spanish for my Spanish football is over,” Wetterer said. 
Wetterer said the fair intro­duced her to a volunteer oppor­tunity at La Casa de Amistad, a community organization that provides bilingual tutoring. 
Freshman Pat Boduch said he was excited about getting in­volved in service that would al­low him to meet people from the South Bend community. 
“It seems like mostly I’m around Notre Dame kids from ages 18 to 22,” said Boduch.”It would be refreshing to work with younger kids, and I think it’s good to serve the community as well.” 
Contact Carolyn Garcia at cgarcia7@nd.edu 
Chief 
continued from page 1 
of Notre Dame, and I’m tremen­dously honored to be part of its storied campus,” Harrison said. “It’s an immaculate place.” 
He is also happy to join an or­ganization he considers one of the best in the world, he said, and hopes to leave his own mark on the department during his ten­ure. 
“The opportunity to be fire chief for the Notre Dame Fire Department and serve the Notre Dame community is a great honor and has great meaning to me, both personally and profes­sionally,” Harrison said.  “I view the NDFD to be world class, and I hope that I can add value to that mission.” 
Contact Dan Brambach at dbrambac@nd.edu 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
nually. The Constitution of the Un­dergraduate Student Body previ­ously required the Board to meet weekly. 
Rachel Novick, education and outreach program manager for the Office of Sustainability, spoke to senators about the University’s sustainability strategy. 
Novick said the Office of Sus­tainability hopes to reduce carbon emissions by 50 percent per gross square foot and attain a recycling rate of two-thirds by 2030. The Office of Sustainability also aims to minimize waste on campus. 
Engaging in sustainable prac­tices will ultimately save the Uni­versity money, Novick said. 
“When we look at the Universi­ty setting aside operational money for this, they recognize that over the course of 20 years there may be times when they’re going to have to pay more for fuel because it’s more environmentally friendly [for example], but overall, sus­tainability saves organizations money,” she said. 
Novick said the global Catholic community has made strides to­ward increasing sustainability. 
“There are universities like Santa Clara and Notre Dame and Fordham and a lot of other places with sustainability programs, but they don’t necessarily reach the broader Catholic community, and in order to really make a differ­ence … we really need to reach out and communicate and share what we’re learning here,” Novick said. 
Senate also discussed the pos­sibilities of creating a gay-straight student alliance and adding sex­ual orientation to the University’s non-discrimination clause. 
Katie Rose, gender issues direc­tor for student government, said both issues are intertwined with religion, civil rights and creating a culture of acceptance. 
“If we’re going to call ourselves the top Catholic university in the country, I strongly believe we should be leading the way on so­cial progress,” she said. 
Rose said the University is con­cerned about the legal implica­tions of adding sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause. 
Student body president Pat Mc­Cormick said although sexual ori­entation is not included in the cur­rent non-discrimination clause, the University does not support discrimination on any basis. 
“My sense is that the University believes that any claim on the ba­sis of sexual orientation should be taken seriously and should be ad­dressed within the University,” he said. “Essentially, a non-discrim­ination clause invites the state to enforce discrimination claims.” 
Junior class president Kevin Doherty said the University al­lows the government to intervene in cases of discrimination on oth­er bases, such as race and sex. 
“It’s almost a discriminatory position to say we’re going to handle [issues of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation] in-house, but we’re going to invite the state in on some [issues] and not others,” Doherty said. 
Doherty said if a student-run gay-straight alliance could ar­ticulate how it is different from the existing Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Question­ing Students, it would be reason­able to conclude that each would contribute unique opportunities to campus. 
If an official, student-run gay-straight alliance existed, the club would have some autonomy with regard to the selection of its lead­ership, McCormick said. The cur­rent Core Council is run by both students and administrators. 
McCormick said it might also be possible to increase peer-to-peer support within the Core Council instead of creating a gay-straight alliance. This model would offer students significantly more re­sources than a student club would provide. 
The University has already made strides on GLBTQ issues, McCormick said. 
“For all those who want to try and expand inclusion within our community, there’s much to ap­plaud about the University’s ef­forts,” he said. “So the goal is real­ly not to say that we’re not moving on these issues because the Uni­versity very much has been mov­ing on these issues.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, January 26, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Pointless parietals 
One of my most special talents is complaining. This may seem like a worthless skill. However, when paired with my natural ability to argue, it has continually proven to be an effective way to A.) cause worthwhile change and/or B.) entertain and/or C.) annoy people to no end. 
Luckily for you, loyal Observer reader, you will Laura Laws get a taste of my mastery in the Graphics following 500 words. I could rant about virtually any topic, but today I get to pick my subject off of my personal “Things to Complain About” list. And the subject is: parietals. (For the trivia knowledge of the reader, other things on the List include sloppy drunk girls, eating too much food, design projects going past 3 a.m. and the fact that my boyfriend is allergic to dogs.) 

Parietals are pretty much the most frustrating rules on campus. They cause so many unnecessary problems and solve so few. 
Parietals impede friendships. Some of my best friends are guys. I hang out with my group of guy friends and my boyfriend (who is also my best friend) more than I do my female friends. It’s the worst feeling to have to leave the fun at 2 a.m., knowing that they’ll be up for another couple hours. Some­times what I miss makes me the one who didn’t know an inside joke. 
In order to follow the rules and still hang out, we have to move to a 24­hour area. The 24-hour space does not satisfy since everyone has to filter out. There are not room and televisions for everyone. One group or a few couples is all those rooms can manage. 
Parietals push the tendency to see a person of the opposite sex only as a potential date. Of course people can and often do overcome this tendency, but that every girl has to leave the guys’ dorms at that certain time ef­fects the way we relate to each other mentally and outside of ourselves. 
Whether or not the school keeps this rule to prevent students from sleep­ing or sleeping together, that stigma is there. When co-eds have to leave, it highlights that we are different sexes with the potential of being together, instead of simply being human who can be friends. And this encourages a wall of that thinking between the men and women of Notre Dame. 
Parietals negatively affect school­work as well. I’m one of those people who stays up late doing homework. My female friends are usually better about time management than my guy friends and get to sleep by midnight. I want to stay where people are working still, because it keeps me awake. 
When everyone is sleeping around me, all I can think about is going to bed. But alas, I must leave the guys, so work often only gets half-finished because I fall asleep on it. 
Though fellow students and I have speculated on why parietals continue to exist, we haven’t been able to figure it out. What do you guys think the reasons are? If I find the right person to ask, I’ll be sure to let you know. 
Contact Laura Laws at       llaws@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
“Don’t get that Red Ryder BB gun. You’ll shoot your eye out.” Everyone remembers the famous line from “A Christmas Story.” 
However, there are two interpreta­tions of this sage advice: Avoid the Mark Easley gun altogether and you won’t Elephant in run the risk of the Room hurting yourself or others. But another alternative is to teach Ralphie to be responsible and safe with his BB gun, so that he can still have fun. Enter the gun culture. 
Like the previous example, there are always two camps: the ones that neglect to use a tool because the per­ceived risks outweigh the benefits and the ones who use a tool because the benefits outweigh the risk. 
Gun culture is a strange thing to most folks here in the United States, which is both a blessing and a curse. It is a blessing because in day-to-day life many of us don’t need to use them to defend ourselves, and it can be argued that the ignorance can lead to an over­all safer society. However, it is a curse because in America, citizens with good track records have the right to own a firearm, yet many of us do not. 
Now why would one want to own a gun anyway? Well, for all the rea­sons you would expect. 1) It is totally hardcore. 2) It is fun to shoot things recreationally. 3) It is an effective tool for defending an individual or com­munity against outside threats. 4) It is an effective tool for hunting animals for sustenance. The forefathers most likely granted us the right because of the third reason, but don’t discount the power of the others on the list. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Gun culture 
Now, gun culture is a lot like gym cul­ture. It is difficult to get into and figure out what is going on. There are those that are really into it and those that vehemently oppose it. While working out your muscles may not be a good par­allel to using firearms, it does illustrate that it can be tough to educate people about the benefits if you can’t even get them through the door because they are intimidated. Yes, guns can be scary, and you must always be aware of the dangers they impose, but that doesn’t mean they serve no good purpose. They protect good people as much as they empower bad people. 
Owning a gun is a simple process. One must only be a U.S. citizen with no felonies. For handguns, you must be 21 years of age and depending on your state, you may have to get a permit. For shotguns and rifles you must be 18 years of age, but a permit is not typical­ly required. Laws vary by state and are subject to change. You can only legally purchase a firearm from a Federal Fire­arms Licensed dealer who will confirm with the Department of Justice on your legal right to purchase after you fill out some simple paperwork. Typically guns can be purchased at gun stores and shows, but they can also be found at pawnshops, sporting goods stores and online (shipped to an FFL in your area). 
Guns, defined by their most funda­mental function, are tools of personal protection. One typically buys a firearm to defend his life from those that might wish to rob him of it. They also provide other applications that make them use­ful in a survival situation. While owning a gun does not guarantee you will be able to save your own life, it does give you more options when a conflict arises. 

Choosing the right gun can be a com­plicated process. There are many differ­ent types for different applications. 
For personal defense of your home, a shotgun is excellent because of its bullet spread and power. Handguns are also good because they are smaller and easy to carry and use. Rifles are best for hunting or being able to engage mul­tiple targets from a distance. They come in all sorts of styles and calibers. 
Like any major purchase, you should research online or with profession­als about what you are looking for and which guns have a proven track record of reliability and functionality. There are plenty of resources available to give you the best information on firearm reviews and safe gun handling. 
Once you have a firearm you need to find a place to shoot with it. There are usually ranges, both indoor and outdoor, in most areas that give you a safe place to practice. Your local gun store or Google are good resources to find these places. There are also gun clubs and private land that allow for shooting. Like any activity, it is good to get plugged into the local community to share tips and make your shooting experience more fun. 
Take advantage of your freedom and exercise your right to bear arms. Whether for recreation or the feeling of self-reliance, gun ownership will give you a good feeling inside. Don’t knock it until you try it. 
Mark Easley is a senior computer science major. He can be contacted at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I have never let my schooling interfere with my education.” 
Mark Twain 
U.S. humorist & author 
WEEKLY POLL 
Where will you watch Super Bowl 2012? 
With my roommates O’Rourke’s Brothers Indianapolis 

Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Thursday, January 26, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
A few good men 
Democrats and Republicans do not agree on much nowadays, but my guess is most can agree on two things: 
1) America faces many complex and pressing issues and 2) America needs 
a President to lead  
on solutions for  Adam Newman  
these issues. So as  
the 2012 election  Scientia  
nears, there is no  Potentia Est  
doubt that America  
needs the best can­ 

didates that the Democrats and Repub­licans can produce. 
The Democrats already have their strongest candidate: Barack Obama. Obama has already won the presidency and shown that he can effectively govern. 
While many on the left are unhappy with some of his policies, that should not lead them to support a primary opponent. A primary opponent, even someone as popular as Hillary Clinton, would weaken Obama and their party at a time when it can only win united. Anyone who thinks otherwise is a few sandwiches short of a picnic. 
Then there are the Republicans, whose primary for the Presidential nominee is similar to an episode of “The Jersey Shore:” entertaining but for all the wrong reasons. The Republi­can field, consisting of Newt Gingrich, Mitt Romney, Rick Perry, Michele Bachmann, Ron Paul, Jon Huntsman, Rick Santorum and Herman Cain is embarrassingly weak. (Note: Cain, Bachmann, Huntsman and Perry have dropped out of the race.) Many of the extreme candidates, who in any other election would have received little to no support, have briefly held the front-runner position or a close second. 
First, there was Bachmann, whose chronic use of inaccurate facts and figures (look at her politifact.com pro­file) during debates caught up with her when she suggested that a certain vac­cine leads to mental retardation. Next, there was Perry, who after making his debate performances hard for everyone to watch ended his chance when he was unable to name the third cabinet position that he would eliminate as President. After Perry was Cain, a man with no governing experience who was unable to respond when asked a ques­tion about Libya. 
After Cain was Gingrich, a man who could fill a 747 with his personal baggage, whether it be his three wives (two of which were mistresses), his insensitive and incendiary remarks, or his many, many, many bad ideas. Fi­nally, Santorum, someone who lost his re-election bid for Senate in 2006 by 18%, had a surge after conservatives could flock to no one else. All the while the moderate (and normal) candidates like Romney and Huntsman have been by the rank and file. 
Political parties rarely put forward all of their best potential candidates, but usually many are in the field. This is not so for the Republican primary. The ideal Republican candidates are: John Thune, Senator from South Dakota, Paul Ryan, Representative from Wisconsin (and a runner up for Time’s 2011 person of the year), Chris Christie, Governor of New Jersey, Mitch Daniels, Governor of Indiana, Rudy Giuliani, former mayor of New York City, Jeb Bush, (yes, another Bush) former Governor of Florida, in addition to Romney and Huntsman. 
It is no secret that I want Obama to win in 2012. And the easiest way for this to happen would be for one of the weaker candidates (i.e. Gingrich) to face Obama in the general election. It would be much harder for the Presi­dent to win against Romney or Hunts­man, so my inner political hack says I should root for Gingrich to win the nomination. 
But then the inner American takes over. I did not name the Republicans above because I agree with them. On the contrary, I disagree with these men on most issues. But as America faces many pressing issues, it deserves the best candidates that each party can provide. While a win against Gingrich would be a win nevertheless, it will not give Obama the electoral mandate he needs to move forward with his agenda 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

The Shirt: Quick reply 
Thanks for publishing Andrew Alea’s letter, “2012’s Shirt.” I appreciate his thoughtfulness on the issue. 
As mentioned in the last two paragraphs of my original letter from Monday, it is hard to believe we can’t reach a compromise here, e.g. by utilizing all of the brilliant minds in our first-ranked business school to figure out other ways to supplement The Shirt Committee’s income, e.g. by selling sweatshirts, jackets and coats with the same lettering and design as The Shirt. 
This is Notre Dame. We just have to be smart enough to figure this out. Whatever we do, let’s not just “punt” this year. Enough said. 
Jim Blase 
Law School Class of ‘81 St. Louis, MO Jan. 25 

High time we legalize 
A couple weeks ago, I was going through the exciting process of ND Roll Call when I noticed something a little dif­ferent: a memo to all students reminding us of the University’s notably stringent drug policy. 
Of course, we all know the one recre­ational drug to which this policy most frequently applies: marijuana. Possession alone can cost you a year’s suspension from the University. It got me thinking, what is it about marijuana that inspires such widespread fear and evokes extreme punishment directed toward non-violent offenders, not only at ND, but throughout the country? 
Is it the adverse health effects? The shelves at your local supermarket are stocked with food and drink items that will kill you much quicker than weed ever will. In fact, there has never been a single documented death directly resulting from marijuana use. Is it the state of mind in which the drug puts you? Not unless ren­dering users happy and hungry creates a threat to the public good. Is it the old argument that smoking it causes a lack of motivation? This can be said for any recreational activity when one overdoes it, yet video games and TV remain legal. 
A recent report estimates that legaliz­ing marijuana would save $7.7 billion per year in government spending related to the enforcement of prohibition. Addition­ally, annual tax revenue from legalization could reach $6.4 billion if marijuana was taxed at comparable rates to tobacco and alcohol. This does not include the potential benefits of the reintroduction of a multi-billion dollar hemp industry to the U.S. economy. Given the economic state of the country, it is hard to find an easier way to increase revenue and cut expenses than the legalization, regula­tion and taxation of cannabis products. 
I can hardly begin to cover the issues related to marijuana legalization in one Viewpoint article, but I urge anyone who reads this to take the time to do some of your own research. Question the entrenched misconceptions about marijuana, and if you come to the same conclusions I have, get involved and ask your administrators and politicians for more sensible drug policies. 
Matt DePaolo 
senior off-campus Jan. 25 

that a win against Romney, Huntsman or one of the above Republicans would. 
As the Republican convention nears, it looks more and more like Romney will be the nominee, but most Repub­licans support him only grudgingly. This intolerance against moderates has made them fail to realize that Romney is the only candidate that can win both the Republican primary and general election, and Huntsman is the only per­son that could deliver a decisive win against Obama in a general election. What a tragic mistake. 
In the most recent Batman movie, “The Dark Knight”, a comparison is drawn between the “hero that Gotham needs and the hero that it deserves”. The context is that Gotham, a city seized by corruption, needs a hero with the power and moral ability to save it. But since Gotham has sunk so low, it does not deserve a hero of this stature. 
The same can be said about the Re­publicans: Huntsman and Romney are the heroes that the Republicans need, but Bachmann, Paul, Perry, Cain, Gin­grich and Santorum are the politicians that they deserve. 
Adam Newman is a junior finance major. He can be reached at 
anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Ryan Gerspach, my love, a request 
My Darling Ryan Gerspach, 
Our love is fresh like a baby bird Our hearts are beating loud. Being with you completes my life I’m on a happy cloud. 
I want to share spring semester with you Experience things together. We have an opportunity to create Memories that last forever. 
The Band of the Fighting Irish Has an annual tradition Involving dresses and dancing and beverages I request your permission. 
On Saturday, February the 4th Honor me with your company Will you please, my darling, my sun­shine, my snickers, Go to the band dance with me? 
Camille Hayes 
sophomore Breen Phillips Hall Jan. 24 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, January 26, 2012 

By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 

“Shame” is in a rare class of films. It’s that once-in-a-blue-moon movie that’s undeniably great (dare I say, almost a masterpiece), yet too difficult to watch. It leaves you on the edge of your seat, ready to prematurely walk out of the the­ater. 
It’s a feat really, turning a man’s desperate pur­suit of sex into a cringe-worthy two hours. It so finely walks the extremely thin line between be­ing sick and pornographic, and graphic enough that you feel the need to turn away but can’t bear to. And therein lies the genius of Steve McQueen’s sophomore effort: the fact that the visceral power is in what you don’t see. It would have been so easy for McQueen, who embraced the film’s NC-17 rating, to make it less about a sex addict’s men­tal and emotional unraveling and more about his sexcapades. 
Michael Fassbender portrays the sex addict. And if his Ryan Gosling-like presence all over the silver screen in 2011 films wasn’t enough to make America notice, then his performance in this film should be. 
Fassbender plays Brandon Sullivan, a Wall Street playboy who lives a solitary existence if not for his frequent encounters with prostitutes, one-night stands and nightly adult video chats. His ailment is all too human at first glance, and maybe even praiseworthy by society’s tendency to congratulate and emulate playboys. 
Beneath the surface, however, he’s broken and utterly sick. For him, sex isn’t a matter of plea­sure, or even remotely a matter of emotional connectedness. Rather, it is a life-blood without which he’d have nothing to live for, except for maybe the one scrap of family he has left — his troubled younger sister Sissy (Carey Mulligan). 
The film opens with Brandon staring emptily at the ceiling ahead, his bed sheets half-draped across his naked body. As the film’s title vanish­es from the screen, Brandon gets up and moves about almost like a zombified version of a man. From that moment on, his sexual encounters (especially one that doesn’t even directly involve him) increasingly operate in agonizing fashion, taking momentary breaks from time to time to allow the audience to come up for air. 

Fassbender, despite a career-defining turn, won’t win any of the high-profile awards for his performance. McQueen, who in his second film once again shows he has that rare Lars von Trier-like ability to get his actors to give him every­thing, won’t win either. The film shares the same fate simply because, to put it bluntly, no nation­ally broadcast awards show can get away with endorsing a movie even half as controversial as this one. 
Nevertheless, “Shame” is one of this year’s best films. It tears you apart on the inside and cuts deep — deeper in some than in others — and whether you love or hate it, “Shame” is more of an experience than a film. A challenging experience to sit through, but an experience nonetheless. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 

“Shame” 
Directed by: Steve McQueen Starring: Michael Fassbender, Carey Mulligan and James Badge Dale 


Thursday, January 26, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
‘Twelfth Night’ Washington Hall 
7:30 p.m. $12 for students 

Theatrical favorite Actors from the London Stage return to Notre Dame with a produc­tion of Shakespeare’s beloved comedy, “Twelfth Night.” The play, which combines dis­guise, mistaken identity and romance, is a light-hearted but poignant story sure to keep you in stitches. Actors from the London Stage will also perform “Twelfth Night” on Friday, Jan. 27. 
Three Men in Kilts Fiddler’s Hearth 9 p.m. Free 
Popular South Bend haunt Fiddler’s Hearth brings to its stage Three Men in Kilts, a Chicago-based Irish band that will play a set of tradi­tional Irish pub songs. Join in as the crowd sings along over some bread pudding and a pint — or, for those under 21, a soda. Even at this late hour, Fiddler’s is both a bar and restaurant, fun for people of all ages to enjoy. 

Wallpaper Legends 10 p.m. Free 
Indie “party rock” art­ist Wallpaper will visit Leg­ends on Saturday. Along with opener Twenty One Pilots, Wallpaper’s hits are guaran­teed to get the crowd dancing all night long. Stick around after the show for a bubble party, which — you guessed it — means bubbles will fill Legends as you dance. The concert and the after party are free, so don’t miss it! 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Writer 

The Keough-Naughton Institute Irish Film Series will bring the critically ac­claimed film “The Guard” to the DeBar­tolo Performing Arts Center this Friday. 
The film, set in rural Ireland, stars Brendan Gleeson (whom Harry Pot­ter fans might recognize as Professor Moody) and Don Cheadle as a local po­lice officer and an FBI agent forced to team up to investigate a drug traffick­ing ring. 
Gleeson and Cheadle’s characters could not be more different. Cheadle plays a straight-laced, up-tight modern officer of the law. Gleeson, on the other hand, portrays a freewheeling and un­intentionally racist cop from backwoods Ireland who is at least as comfortable at a bar or with call girls as he is investi­gating crime, if not more so. 
The concept of an odd-couple buddy cop movie is hardly original on the sur­face, but Gleeson delivers the imper­fections of his character’s character to such perfection, that the movie rises above any comparisons to a run of the mill action thriller. 
The first interaction between Glee­son’s Sergeant Gerry Boyle and Chea­dle’s agent Wendall Everett consists of Boyle expressing his shock at learning that not all drug dealers are black. 
Sergeant Boyle goes on to learn that Everett is from Milwaukee, which natu­rally leads him to ask if the agent grew up in the projects. He is again shocked to learn that not all black kids grow up 
‘The Enchanted Island’ Browning Cinema, DPAC 1 p.m. $16 
While a trip to New York City’s Metropolitan Opera might be difficult right now, the walk to DPAC is not. This Sunday, the Met will broad­cast its new original opera “The Enchanted Island” live in the Browning Cinema. The Baroque opera features mu­sic set to a new libretto that combines the stories of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” and “The Tempest.” 
in extreme poverty. This exchange leads to one of the greatest lines in the movie, as well as a perfect description of the way Gleeson plays his character. 
Everett proclaims, “I can’t tell if you’re really [freaking] dumb, or really [freaking] smart.” Boyle sits in silence, responding with a goofy smile, not giv­ing anything away. 
The film is entertaining and humor­ous throughout, and can be seen at DPAC this Friday at 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students and can be found on the center’s website. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 26, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Don’t get sick with the Lob City Disorder 
If Albert Pujols went to the Mets, would that make the Mets auto­matically better than the Yankees? 
If the an­swer is yes, you must be a Mets fan. Or a Clippers fan. 

This is the first step to curing a terrible epidemic spread­ing across the nation, mostly through the almighty Bill Simmons (who lives in L.A. and is a Celtics fan) and Laker-haters everywhere. It’s called LCD, also known as Lob City Disorder. It falls somewhere be­tween scurvy and irritable bowel syndrome and should be taken seriously at all times. 
LCD is one of those infamous diseases that catch the country by storm, following in the footsteps of Tebowitis B and preceding Ricky Rheubiotism — apparently spreading like the plague in the land of 1,000 lakes. 
Lob City Disorder attacks the brain, instantly creating an aver­sion to the colors purple and gold. It makes you think grandiose thoughts such as, “The Clippers are the best team in Los Angeles” and “Donald Sterling is such a great owner” when in fact you should be asking yourself: “Why do our best players have two first names (Blake Griffin and Chris Paul)?” and “Why does our point guard have an uncanny resem­blance to Carlton from The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air?” and “How many rings have we won?” 
And the last question is critical to this national discussion. 

The Clippers added one All-Star player to their roster, and now they are bigger than the façade of the Hotel Figueroa that stands in front of the Staples Center. 
The Lakers have five rings from seven NBA Finals attempts in the last decade. The Clippers have zero. And in the near future, do we honestly see the Clippers winning a championship? Can the addition of Chris Paul (coupled with the shipment of a young core of solid role players to New Orleans) really make this team a compelling and viable threat out of the West? 
First, this team with no playoff experience would have to get by the defending-champion Mav­ericks and probably the heavily favored Thunder (not to mention the Lakers or Spurs) before having a shot at the insanely talented Heat or unusually deep Bulls. All of these would have to be accom-plished in multiple seven-game series with each of these hungry, veteran-savvy teams, whereas the only player with legitimate playoff experience in Lob City is a born-again shooting guard by the name of Chauncey Billups. 


I’m not saying the Clippers aren’t better than the Lakers right now, but people are treating them as though they have the same pedigree and the same insatiable expectations solely earned by the Lakers. 
Chris Paul is only one player. Period. They need more around him and he is only guaranteeing the Clippers two NBA-shortened seasons to do it. And those who know Donald Sterling know it will be tough to actually think he will splurge for Dwight Howard or even O.J. “Da Juiceman” Mayo. If the fantasy-owners dream (LeB­ron) couldn’t do it like this, how will Chris Paul be able to? Sure he has Blake Griffin, but after that where is the depth, the youth, the spark? 
And what happens when the rapid-fire season takes a toll on Paul, as it is already starting to do? It then becomes Blake Griffin and last year’s same-old Clippers without Eric Gordon and Chris “the Caveman” Kaman. 
It’s pretty sad, looking at the Clippers crowd. Most are there to see the opposing team (this writer is guilty) and some are there to see Chris Paul throw half-court lobs to Blake Griffin. They aren’t there to see the Clippers, who actually play an aesthetically pleasing game of basketball. Don’t believe me? Count the number of Eric Gordon jerseys — or Clippers jerseys at all, for that matter — in the crowd. 
And even if the Clippers beat the Lakers in the next 100 meet­ings, they will still not be L.A’s team and develop the rivalry they hope it can become. Until the fans change — which won’t happen 
— it will continue to be the way it has always been. It takes decades to build prestige, not a trade. 
CP3 to Blake Griffin is a beautiful way to fill the Top 10 on SportsCenter, but will it fill the trophy case? 
Chris Paul just bought Avril Lavigne’s Bel Air mansion so he will probably be in L.A. for a while. But he might switch to the gold team across the hall at Staples Center to go after that gold in 2013. 
Just a spoonful of reality helps the medicine go down. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily 
NBA 

Love signs four-year extension 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Kevin Love watched friends Derrick Rose and Russell Westbrook sign five-year extensions this season and was ready to do the same with the Minnesota Timberwolves. 
As the clock ticked down to­ward the deadline, it became abundantly clear that owner Glen Taylor and president of basket­ball operations David Kahn didn’t want to go that far. 
So the two sides found a middle ground. 
Love signed a four-year maxi­mum extension Wednesday worth more than $60 million that allows him to opt out after three years. 
The deal offers the financial flexibility and protection from in­jury that the Timberwolves were seeking while giving the 23-year­old Love the freedom to become an unrestricted free agent in 2015 if he so chooses. 
“Did I want the five years? Of course,” Love said on a conference call from Dallas, where the Tim­berwolves were facing the Maver­icks on Wednesday night. “It was something I felt strongly about. But at the end of the day, a four-year deal is still great.” 
Under the new collective bar­gaining agreement, teams can of­fer one player on their roster a five-year deal with annual raises of 7.5 percent, which is one year longer and three percentage points high­er than any other team can offer. 
Love has emerged as the new face of the franchise in the post-Kevin Garnett era, an All-Star who led the NBA in rebounding last season and is off to an even better start this year. He is fifth in the NBA in scoring (24.9 points per game), second in rebounding 
(13.9) and first in minutes (39.4). 
“He’s the key of this team. He’s our leader,” point guard Ricky Ru-bio said. “We appreciate what he does on the court. It’s great for us.” 
Coupled with the additions of coach Rick Adelman and Rubio, Love has helped form a promising foundation. Still, Love can leave if he doesn’t like the direction the organization is headed in three years. 
“The early termination keeps my options open and I want to see where this team is going to head,” Love said. “I feel that we are (on the right track), and that we’ll get there. ... I’m looking at this as a four-year deal and we’ll go from there.” 
With this grueling, lockout-shortened season still only a quar­ter of the way finished, Kahn said he and Taylor felt that extending a player even as accomplished as Love for five years was more than they were comfortable doing. 
“In a perfect world, we would have been able to do five years and not have any risk and not leave ourselves vulnerable,” Kahn said. “But it’s not a perfect world. The main thing is Kevin is a max player and he deserves max money. I’m very pleased for him that he can have financial security that this con­tract provides.” 


The team had until 11 p.m. Wednesday to sign Love to a deal and prevent him from becoming a restricted free agent in July. Oklaho­ma City gave Westbrook a five-year, $80 million deal and Chicago signed Rose to a five-year, $94 million deal under a provision that Rose earned by winning the MVP last season. 
“They’re in totally different posi­tions,” Love said, pointing out that the Thunder and Bulls are both con­sidered championship contenders while the Wolves haven’t been to the playoffs since 2004. 
Even after all that he accom­plished in his first three seasons — the first 30-point, 30-rebound game since 1982, becoming one of the rare big men who can shoot reliably from 3-point range and finally giv­ing the franchise a star player that fans could cheer for after Garnett was traded — there still was some debate entering the season about whether Love deserved a max ex­tension. 
Skeptics noted that Love wasn’t the kind of player to create his own shot in late-game situations and struggled on the defensive end, which meant that all the gaudy numbers he was piling up rarely led to victories. 
But as this season has opened, Love quickly showed that the only debate left about his value to the Timberwolves was the length of the contract. He showed up to training camp 25 pounds lighter and in su­perb shape, which has served him well. 
He’s also added a step-back jumper and a turnaround bank shot that allows him to create space be­tween himself and the defender and is improving as a help defender on the other end. He drilled a 27-foot 3-pointer at the buzzer to beat the Clippers in Los Angeles and scored 39 points and grabbed 12 rebounds in a loss against Houston on Monday. 
The four-year deal gives the Tim­berwolves some flexibility going forward and keeps that “designated player” five-year option available for Rubio, No. 2 overall pick Derrick Williams or another player down the road. 
All three players, and Adelman, could have their contracts up in the summer of 2015. 
“It’s good to have our centerpiece,” Williams said. “We need a guy like him to put up 25 and 10 every night. ... I had a feeling he would stay with the fan base he’s built.” 
Even though his play may not have indicated it, Love said the situation was wearing on him as the deadline approached. He said he was relieved that it was all over and would play­ing “with a chip on my shoulder” af­ter not getting the five-year deal. 
“I understand his position,” Kahn said. “It was a very close call. I don’t believe, however, that Kevin will be affected by it. I believe that Kevin, deep down, cares about one thing and one thing only, winning. And I think that he understands that, to the extent that this might help us achieve some team objectives, that he’s OK with it.” 
If there was any disappointment about Love settling for a shorter con­tract, Adelman didn’t see it. 
“I was hoping for 10 years...for me,” the coach deadpanned. “I think he understands. You don’t want to be someone who signs a contract and immediately starts complaining. He sees the opportunity. I’m hoping he relaxes a little bit and we can start making him a more complete player. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
1999 VW Beatle VW Beatle in excellent condition, 113K miles, clean interior, no rust, locally owned by former ND, graduate, locally maintained with maintenance records available, removable radio/CD player. 
Call at 574-277-6976 and leave message. 

FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 
Great Specials!  
Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom & Townhomes available. (574) 272­8124.
 www.clovervillageapartments. com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Seinfeld Quotes: 

“Hello, Newman.” - Jerry Seinfeld “Hello, Jerry.” - Newman 
“I think I’ve reached a point in my life where I can tell the difference between nougat and cookie.” - George Costanza 
“Who’s gonna turn down a Junior Mint? It’s chocolate, it’s peppermint -- it’s delicious!” -  Cosmo Kramer “When you look annoyed all the time, people think that you’re busy.” - George Costanza 
“Oh, I was unstoppable! Perfect combination of Mountain Dew and mozzarella, with just the right amount of grease on the joystick.” 
- George Costanza 

“You think people will still be using napkins in the year 2000? Or is this mouth vacuum thing for real?” - Cosmo Kramer “I’ve been lying about my 
income for a few years. I figured 
I could afford a fake house in the Hamptons.” - George Costanza 
“If I don’t have a good shower, I am not myself. I feel weak and ineffectual. I’m not Kramer.” - Cosmo Kramer 
“I just can’t believe the way people are. What is it with humanity? What kind of a world do we live in?” - George Costanza 

Thursday, January 26, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NFL 

Vikings owner optimistic about Metrodome 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. — Minne­sota Vikings owner Zygi Wilf said Wednesday that the team wants a new stadium in the Twin Cities, even if it means building on the current site of the Metrodome. 
It was the New Jersey busi­nessman’s strongest signal that he would ultimately ac­cept the site that for months had been his least favorite among a handful of options. 
“I’m optimistic that it could be,” Wilf said when asked if the Metrodome’s downtown Minneapolis location could be the site of a sparkling new stadium that he wants to be partially funded by state money. 
Wilf and team officials met privately with Gov. Mark Day­ton, several state lawmak­ers, Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak and others to discuss tearing down the Metrodome and rebuilding there. 
The meeting came after sev­eral days in which the team’s bid for public funding ap­peared on the brink of falling apart, at least for the year, as Dayton proclaimed two other site options unworkable and Wilf was said to be frustrat­ed that a proposal to build in suburban Arden Hills had been discarded. 


The group emerged after more than three hours to say the Metrodome site would be the focus of stadium negotia­tions going forward. 
Concerns about the site re­main, meeting participants said: the Vikings face a costly and logistically difficult re­location to the University of Minnesota’s football stadium for three seasons, and team officials are concerned the crowded Metrodome location offers too little space for new parking, game-day tailgating, and adjacent development projects. 
Another Minneapolis op­tion, on the other side of downtown, appeared to be completely dead. 
While the Vikings had been warming to the site, opposi­tion on the Minneapolis City Council and its proximity to a historic Catholic Church — whose rector threatened to sue to prevent it — apparently doomed its prospects. 
No one was ready to write off the Arden Hills option entirely. Wilf said while the team still has hopes for Arden Hills, “we will leave it up to the legislative working group to decide where they would want us to work hardest at.” 
The Vikings have sought a replacement to the Metro-dome for nearly a decade, contending it no longer gener­ates sufficient revenue for the team to keep up with other NFL clubs, most of which are playing in new or renovated facilities. The Vikings used to share the building with the Twins and the University of Minnesota, but both opened new stadiums within the last two years. 
Building a new stadium on the same spot as the Me­trodome is an old idea, with a number of plans and blue­prints sketched out in recent years. 
But the team backed the Ar­den Hills proposal last spring after state lawmakers told them to find a willing host. As Minneapolis leaders waf­fled on rebuilding downtown, Ramsey County commission­ers swooped in to offer a large suburban swath of land in the St. Paul suburb that once held an Army ammunition plant. 
The team envisioned not only a stadium but space for a training camp and museum, plenty of room for tailgating and other game-day activi­ties, and the possibility of related retail and hotel devel­opment that prompted some critics to dub the project “Zygi-World.” 
NBA 

Wizards win first game under new head coach 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Nick Young scored 20 points, and Andray Blatche had 17 points and 10 rebounds to lead the Wash­ington Wizards to a 92-75 win over the Charlotte Bobcats on Wednesday night in Randy Wit­tman’s first game as coach. 


Wittman took over for the fired Flip Saunders on Tuesday, and guided the team without the benefit of a practice. Saun­ders’ lead assistant has been an NBA coach twice — with Minnesota and Cleveland. His career record improved to 101­207. 
He didn’t change the starting lineup. 
“All these guys get a clean slate with me,” Wittman said. 
They started off brilliantly against a team with even more problems. The Bobcats, who have lost six straight, are now 3-16 and were missing their top two scorers: Gerald Henderson and D.J. Augustin. 
Matt Carroll scored 17 points and rookie Cory Higgins had a season-high 13 for the Bob­cats. Tyrus Thomas also had 13 points and blocked nine shots — one short of a team record. 
John Wall scored 12 points for the Wizards, who broke a three-game losing streak but are still just 3-15. 
Washington led throughout and had a 31-17 advantage af­ter one. The second quarter was even worse for Charlotte. The Bobcats missed their first seven shots of the quarter and finished 5 for 20 in the period, scoring just 11 points and trail­ing 48-28 at halftime. 
The Bobcats used a 9-0 run early in the third to cut the lead to 50-37, but Washington soon pushed the lead to 25 and led 71-49 heading into the fourth. 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, January 26, 2012 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Top four ranked players advance to semifinals 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — With Novak Djokovic clutch­ing his leg and struggling to breathe, it looked like the “Big 4” semifinal lineup at the Aus­tralian Open might not come to­gether. 
Then Djokovic’s championship instincts kicked in. 
The top-ranked Serb held off No. 5 David Ferrer in a second-set tiebreaker Wednesday night and then raced through the third set for a 6-4, 7-6 (4), 6-1 win, setting up a rematch of last year’s final against fourth-ranked Andy Murray. 
Order was restored. 
For 10 days, nearly everyone at Melbourne Park has talked about the top four players and how they are on a higher level than the rest of men’s tennis. But with the other three already in the semis, Djokovic looked to be in trouble in the second set. 
“No, I don’t have any physical issues,” Djokovic said, playing down any health concerns. “I feel very fit and I feel mentally, as well, very fresh. 
“It’s just today I found it very difficult after a long time to breathe because I felt the whole day my nose was closed a lit­tle bit. I just wasn’t able to get enough oxygen.” 
The win ensured that the top four men reached the semifinals for the third time in four Grand Slams. Murray beat Kei Nishiko­ri 6-3, 6-3, 6-1 earlier Wednes­day, while second-ranked Rafael Nadal and No. 3 Roger Federer were already preparing for their semifinal showdown, their 10th clash at a major but their first 
NFL 

Rams fans concerned about future of team 
meeting at that stage of a Grand Slam since 2005. 
Doubts about Djokovic’s tem­perament surfaced after he won his first major at the 2008 Aus­tralian Open. He went another 11 majors before reaching an­other Grand Slam final, which he lost. 
In his first title defense in 2009, he struggled with breath­ing problems and the heat and had to retire from his quarter­final match against Andy Rod-dick. 
Trying again to defend the Australian Open title, and again in the quarterfinals, the 24-year-old Djokovic was lead­ing by a set and a break when he dropped a service game against Ferrer. 
At break point, he scrambled to hit a defensive lob on his backhand and didn’t even wait for it to land out before turning to face the back of the court, grabbing at the back of his left leg. He leaned over and rested his head on the top of his racket. Ferrer was back in contention. 
For the rest of the set, Djokov­ic sneaked looks at his coaches and team in the stands. He ca­joled himself at the baseline and took time between points. 
At times he looked exhausted. At times he looked sore. 
“Look, you know, in these con­ditions, at this stage of the tour­nament, when you’re playing somebody like David, somebody that has great shots from both sides from the baseline, makes you always play over five to 10 shots in the rally, your physical strength and endurance comes into question,” Djokovic calmly explained of his on-court de-meanor. “Actually I’m not con­cerned about that at all. 


“I’m really fit and I have no concerns of recovering for the next match. It’s just a matter of breathing better through the nose.” 
That may not be how Murray’s new coach, Ivan Lendl, sees it. Lendl has been working with Murray this month, trying to help him break his Grand Slam title drought — the Briton has lost three major finals without winning a set, including the last two in Australia. 
Lendl lost the first four Grand Slam finals he contested, before winning eight of his next 15. 
He was doing some scouting Wednesday night at Rod Laver Arena, sitting about 15 rows behind the Djokovic group, surrounded by people waving Serbian flags. He couldn’t have missed the sideways glances from Djokovic to his support crew, or the fact that he sat down in a line judge’s chair when Ferrer challenged a line call. Murray and Djokovic have been playing each other since they were 12, and know each other so well they sometimes hit together and kick a soccer ball around. 


Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — Fans are won­dering about the fate of football in St. Louis as a deadline ap­proaches for a plan to upgrade the home of the Rams. 
Next Wednesday, Feb. 1, is the deadline for the St. Louis Convention and Visitors Com­mission to outline how it will transform the Edward Jones Dome into a “first-tier” stadium by 2015. If it fails to do so, the Rams can break their lease — and potentially move — after the 2014 season. 
The commission has been meeting with city and county of­ficials for several weeks on how to upgrade the dome, and how to pay for it. No one is discuss­ing details. Messages left with Mayor Francis Slay’s chief of staff Jeff Rainford and with St. Louis County Executive Charlie Dooley’s spokesman, Mac Scott, were not returned. 
Commission President Kath­leen Ratcliffe declined com­ment. The commission said in a statement that the likelihood of success “is enhanced when the parties can make a frank exchange of information, on an ongoing confidential basis.” 
The stakes could be high. 
Los Angeles is seeking an NFL team. Rams owner Stan Kroen­ke is a Missouri native and played a pivotal role in bringing the team to St. Louis 17 years ago. But he owns an estate in Malibu, is reportedly interested in buying the Los Angeles Dodg­ers and has been noncommittal about the future of his football team. 
Adding to the worry was the announcement this month that the Rams would play a “home” game in London each of the next three seasons. Commissioner Roger Goodell has repeatedly spoken of possibly locating a team in London one day, and Kroenke is a majority share­holder in the English soccer club Arsenal. 
Kroenke did not return mes­sages seeking comment. Rams Chief Operating Officer Kevin Demoff on Wednesday declined comment. 
Kroenke’s only recent public appearance in St. Louis came earlier this month when he in­troduced Jeff Fisher as the new coach. Asked about the future of the Rams in St. Louis, Kroen­ke simply noted the deadline for the dome improvement plan. 

Thursday, January 26, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
Babcock 
continued from page 16 
life. 
“Sometimes when I’m really feeling down, [I think] I’m here for a reason. I wouldn’t have had such a weird experience with getting in if I wasn’t sup­posed to be here,” he said. “It’s really strenuous like finals week and exams, it’s like, ‘This is re­ally stressful. I can’t handle it.’ I believe that God would tell me, ‘I’m putting you here for a rea­son. You can handle it.’” 
An exceptional role model for the team’s 16 freshmen, Bab­cock’s passion for Irish sports became evident at an Irish vol­leyball match several months ago. 
“The first match, I think the girls lost, so we were like, ‘We’ve got to pump these girls up,’” he said. “We ran to [our] locker room and put on our speedos. We put on eight articles of cloth­ing. Every time the team scored three times, we took off an arti­cle of clothing. When it got to the end, the 25th [point], we ended up in our speedos and just ran around the court.” 
Babcock said he is confident that his plan ultimately affected the outcome of the match. 
“I’d like to say we’re the rea­son that they won,” he said. “I don’t know if they’ll admit that, but I’d like to think we got an as­sist for that.” 

Aside from providing enter­tainment at volleyball matches, Babcock said he hopes to im­pact the lives of those he meets during his time at Notre Dame. 
“[By my senior year] I would like to have made a differ­ence,” he said. “I would like to leave here knowing that either I changed the school or my team, my dorm in a positive way. I’d like to say I did something.” 
Last year, Babcock was a recipient of the Beeler-Hipp Award, which is presented an­nually to the freshman who best demonstrates vitality, com­petitiveness and love for Notre Dame. The award is named in honor of former Irish swimmers Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp, two freshmen who died in a bus accident Jan. 24, 1992. 
“What all my coaches seem to have taught me is that you get out what you put in. Basically, whatever you want to do, you can do,” Babcock said. “I try to set the pace in every practice. I’m a fun-loving guy outside the pool, [but] I try to work as hard as I can every time I enter the pool.” 
The Irish will host the Sham­rock Invitational on Friday at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
Sanders 
continued from page 16 
I have teammates next to me cheering me on and pushing me to be the best I can be. We are all fighting to win together, as a team.” 
Sanders is already establish­ing herself as one of the top competitors this spring, despite being only three matches into the season. She swept each of her matches in singles compe­tition at the No. 4 spot. At No. 2 doubles, Sanders and fresh­man partner Katherine White are placed 25th in the Intercol­legiate Tennis Association pre­season rankings. 
“My ranking with Katherine is both hers and my first college ranking,” Sanders said. “We’re very excited but also want to continue to improve. We’re working very hard in practice in order to claim more wins and hopefully move up in [the] rank­ings.” 
Sanders said another difficult part about college competition is handling the stress that comes with being a college athlete and a top student. 
“We are going to be traveling a lot this semester, so we have to make sure we keep up with our school work and at the same time compete against other schools every week,” Sanders said. “At times it’s stressful bal­ancing the two.” 
As for season goals, Sanders said hers align perfectly with the team’s ultimate goal: to bring a national championship home to Notre Dame. 
“We have and will continue to work hard in practice and fight for every match in order to achieve that goal,” Sanders said. “We’re not going to be satisfied with coming close. We want that title and nothing else.” 
Contact Katherine Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
free-throw line more than we did tonight, and when we are on the line we need to make more shots.” 
The Belles only reached the free-throw line 12 times for the game, shooting only 58 percent. Saint Mary’s will look to improve upon that mark when it takes on Hope, who won the previous meeting 74-56. 
“Hope is coming in and that is always a great game. We’ll be ready for it,” Henley said. 
Saint Mary’s faces Hope on Sat­urday at 3 p.m., with the alumnae game preceding it at noon. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 16 
the Thunder 45-25. Saint Mary’s forced Trine into shooting only 33 percent from the floor. The Belles, on the other hand, thrived against the Thunder defense. 
“Trine played a zone defense against us,” Henley said. “It al­lowed us to get to some spots on the floor and make shots.” 
The Belles executed and shot 44 percent from the floor. Ronan was the team’s leading scorer with 18 points while shooting 58 percent for the game. Centa and senior forward Kelley Murphy also added nine points each. 
For Trine, junior guard Megan Loveberry scored 25 points on 8-of-13 shooting. Loveberry was the only player to score double digits for the Thunder. 
Henley said the team will look to carry the momentum from its last two games moving forward. Saint Mary’s improved its record to 5-3 at home and hosts Hope on Saturday as it looks to reach the .500 mark for the season. 
“We need to just keep doing what we are doing and get offen­sive boards as well,” Henley said. “Also I think we need to get to the 


NCAA BASKETBALL 

Seminoles blow out Deacons 
Associated Presss 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. — Wake Forest lost its best shot blocker to injury. One of its top scorers couldn’t seem to do any­thing right. 
No wonder the Demon Deacons found themselves on the wrong end of another blowout. 
No. 23 Florida State took ad­vantage of the holes in Wake Forest’s lineup in a 75-52 romp Wednesday night. 
The Demon Deacons lost more than the game. They also lost Ty Walker to a concussion after the 7-foot center was hurt in a col­lision with 9:50 left in the first half. He averages nearly three blocked shots and had swatted away four attempts before he was injured. 
Further complicating things, second-leading scorer Travis McKie — whose average of 17.2 points was 0.1 points behind C.J. 
Harris for the team lead — was a season-worst 1 of 13 and finished with three points. 
“Losing Ty Walker really put us in a tailspin,” coach Jeff Bz­delik said, later adding that he told McKie that “no player in the history of basketball is immune to nights like this when you’re shooting the basketball. 
“He had really good looks, and they just wouldn’t go down for him, and I think it just kind of gets into your mind and you try to force.” 
Harris scored 16 points to lead Wake Forest (11-9, 2-4), which had 18 turnovers yet twice man­aged to pull within two points in the second half. The last time came when Tony Chennault’s la­yup with 17 minutes left made it 32-30. 
Bernard James countered with a hook shot in the lane, and that started the game-breaking surge. Michael Snaer hit 3-point­ers from the right wing roughly 90 seconds apart, and Jon Kreft’s layup in the post stretched the lead to 50-32 with just under 10 minutes left. 
“They wore us down,” Bzdelik said. “We weren’t stopping them inside, and we weren’t stopping them outside.” 
That’s partially because Flori­da State coach Leonard Hamilton wanted the ball pounded inside 
— and that directive was given before he knew Walker was out. 
“Our intentions were to go inside and try to attack inside,” Hamilton said. “(Walker) not be­ing there made it a little more convenient for us.” 
Snaer scored 18 points and hit four 3-pointers, Okaro White added 11 points and Xavier Gib­son had 10. That helped the Sem­inoles (14-6, 5-1) win their fifth straight ACC game, their longest winning streak in league play in two years. 
The ACC co-leaders shot nearly 51 percent — 68 percent in the second half — and outscored Wake Forest 40-16 in the paint. They broke the game open with an 18-2 run shortly after half­time. 
“We just kind of tried to slow it down, get the ball inside, get points in the paint, take it to the free-throw line,” Gibson said. “We took a lot of jump shots in the beginning of the game, and we wanted to just get it inside and be more physical. We knew they were lacking inside from foul trouble and injuries, so we just wanted to pound it inside, go to our advantage right now.” 
Florida State earned its third victory in 12 days against the schools from North Carolina’s Tobacco Road. 
The Seminoles beat then-No. 3 North Carolina by 33 points in Tallahassee, Fla., before Snaer’s buzzer-beating 3 gave the then-fourth-ranked Blue Devils their first home loss in nearly three years. 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, January 26, 2012 
Cooley 
continued from page 16 
“Today, we did a little bit more with free throws at the shootaround,” Brey said. “Even pregame, I told the assistants, ‘Get the guys to the foul line more.’ I thought it really paid off because we really empha­sized it today.” 
The Irish turned a 19­18 halftime lead into a 10-point advantage behind a 10-1 run over the first 
4:20 of the second half. 
Notre Dame pushed the lead to a game-high 16 af­ter two Cooley free throws with 6:29 remaining in the game. 
“We were great defen­sively,” Brey said. “Would we be mature enough af­ter a big win to come back 
and be hun­gry and be focused and play well? Most teams wouldn’t have played well or would have been distract­ed. For this group to turn around and be mature enough to come and get it on the road, I’m thrilled.” 
Notre Dame recovered from 
then-No. 1 Syracuse. “You handled a great win 

“Jack was fabulous with his body position and physical presence in the paint.” 
Mike Brey Irish coach 
a sloppy 
first half that included 10 Irish turnovers, losing the ball only four times in the closing period. 
Brey said this win was bigger than the win over ford and get another one.” 
The Irish face No. 24 Con­necticut on Sunday in Hart­ford, Conn. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
so well men­tally then turn around and beat a really good team,” Brey said. “I told our group, ‘If you get this one, I think you’re show­ing signs of possibly being special.’ And they deliv­ered. So let’s be greedy and go on to Hart-



CCHA 
continued from page 16 
said. “We want to go out and have fun again, and we need to get back to just enjoying the hockey.” 
Lorenz said Jackson has made sure his team stays men­tally sharp with only five reg­ular-season series remaining before the CCHA playoffs. 
“Coach is just making sure that we stay focused,” Lorenz said. 
Though the CCHA race is of prime concern, the Irish no doubt have aspirations to make the field for the 2012 NCAA championship and im-ern Michigan. prove on last year’s defeat in Despite the fact that the con-the Frozen Four. ference will disband follow-

The field will consist of 16 ing next season, it appears the 
teams, 11 of  CCHA will be  
which will be  heavily repre­ 
selected by the Pairwise comparison ranking sys­tem.  “Our conference is, right now, proving to be tougher than any other conference.”  sented on the national stage at this sea­son’s end. Notre Dame  
Notre Dame  hockey  fans  
sits fourth in the most re­cent Pairwise  Jeff Jackson Irish coach  maydreamsHockey  have  of  East  
rankings, one  in their heads,  
of five CCHA  but  for  now,  
teams in the  the  CCHA  is  


Thursday, January 26, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD Will SHOrTz 
HOROSCOPE EugENiA lAST 


HENry ArNOlD 

THE LONDON EXPRESS AlEx griSWOlD and lEE HAggENJOS 
JUMBLE 
MikE ArgiriON 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, January 26, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

ND sinks Pirates 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
When Notre Dame defeat­ed No. 1 Syracuse on Sat­urday, it took the Irish 26 seconds to reach a total of three points. On Wednes­day night against Seton Hall, the Irish did not pass the threshold until 10:06 remaining in the first half. The Irish, however, sur­vived the slow start to beat the Pirates 55-42. 
The teams combined for eight turnovers before the first basket, which came after nearly five minutes of game action. The Irish, who started the game 1-of­11 from the field, finished the game shooting 35 per­cent from the floor. 
Seton Hall senior forward Herb Pope and senior guard Jordan Theodore entered the game each averaging nearly 17 points apiece. Pope, before fouling out, managed just five points on two of 16 shooting from the field. Theodore, mean­while, tallied 11 points. 
“There’s no question [ju­nior forward] Jack Cool­ey was great and [senior guard] Scott Martin help­ing a little and [junior for­ward] Tom Knight gave us minutes,” Irish coach Mike Brey said in an interview with und.com. “Jack was fabulous with his body po­sition and his physical pres­ence in the paint. [Pope] never really got going and that was the key.” 
Cooley followed up his 17-point, 10-rebound effort against Syracuse with a 13-point, 11-rebound outing against the Pirates. Cooley was one of three Irish play­ers to notch double-figures. 


Seton Hall’s 42 points were the fewest Notre Dame (13-8, 5-3 Big East) has sur­rendered to a Big East op­ponent in program history. 
The Pirates (15-5, 4-4) shot just 26 percent from the floor and connected on only two of their 14 3-point attempts. They entered the game shooting more than 37 percent from three-point 
range. “We did a heck of a job 
g uarding  that  arc  and  
frustrating  them  w ith  
that,” Brey said.  

Notre Dame was espe­cially effective at the free throw line. The Irish shot 24-of-32 at the line, in­cluding 16-of-19 in the second half. 
Sophomore guard Jerian Grant was 10-of-12 at the free throw line, scoring a team-high 15 points. 
see COOLEY/page 14 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles top Trine, earn second straight win 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s defeated con­ference opponent Trine 59-48 to earn its second consecu­tive win. The Belles (9-10, 5-5 MIAA) reversed the result of an earlier meeting between the two teams back in November, when they lost 67-59. 
Saint Mary’s and Trine (9-10, 3-7) started the game exchang­ing scores, but with under eight minutes left in the half, Saint Mary’s began to expand on its lead. By halftime the Belles had a 33-22 margin over the Thunder, with contributions from senior forward Jessica Centa and senior guard Maggie Ronan. 
Saint Mary’s coach Jennifer Henley says the week of practice contributed to the team’s success against Trine. 
“The biggest thing today was rebounding,” Henley said. “We emphasized rebounding all week, and they came out here today and did just that.” 
The Belles recorded 23 offen­sive rebounds and out-rebounded 
see BELLES/page 13 
WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Sanders embarks on sophomore campaign 
By KATHERINE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The spring season has bare­ly begun and Britney Sanders is already proving that, at least for her, sophomore slumps are a myth. 
Sanders, who came to Notre Dame from Ontario as the 21st-ranked prospect, spent her senior year of high school playing doubles with fellow Irish sophomore Julie Saba­cinski. 
Sanders said one of the chal­lenges college play brings is transitioning from individual competition, which she was fa­miliar with in high school, to the more team-oriented play that college provides. 
“Before college, I represented and competed for just myself. I was alone on the court,” Sand­ers said. “Now, I am represent­ing and competing for the Notre Dame women’s tennis team. 
see SANDERS/page 13 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Babcock looks to add to rich Irish tradition 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
After a wild ride with the Uni­versity’s Admissions Office, soph­omore swimmer Colin Babcock distinctly remembers how it felt to be accepted to Notre Dame. 
Babcock grew up in a house divided between Louisiana State and Notre Dame athletics. 
The product of Saint Paul’s High School in New Orleans, La., Babcock’s uncles were constantly in his ear about the possibility of one day attending their alma ma­ter and competing for the Irish. 
During his senior year of high school, Babcock visited Louisiana State, William & Mary, and Notre Dame. 
Following his visit to South Bend, he said his decision was a no-brainer, provided that he was accepted to the University. 
“I was basically raised to go to this school,” he said. “It was ranked the No. 1 business school in the country, and who doesn’t love Notre Dame?” 
When he spoke with the Notre Dame Admissions Office in April of his senior year, however, Bab­cock was informed that he had not been accepted to the school he had dreamed of attending for as long as he could remember. 
“I took all the Notre Dame stuff off the wall. I kind of made a burn pile and I might have punched a hole in my wall, I can’t remem­ber,” he said. 
Just five hours later, Babcock received a phone call from Irish associate head coach Matt Tall-man. Admissions had placed the Irish recruit on the list of rejec­tions by mistake. 
“I couldn’t speak. I was stam­mering on the phone,” Babcock said. “It was an awesome feeling. It was kind of like, ‘Alright I guess I’ll put [the posters] back up on the wall.’” 
Babcock said he was attracted to Notre Dame in part because of his Catholic faith. Attending Ba­silica Mass as often as possible, he said his relationship with God plays a huge role in his everyday 
see BABCOCK/page 13 
HOCKEY 

ND sits atop tough CCHA 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Though it will cease to exist in less than two years, the Central Collegiate Hock­ey Association (CCHA) is stronger than ever, with eight of the nation’s top 20 teams in the USCHO.com rankings. The No. 4 Irish (14-9-3) are the highest-ranked team in the con­ference but sit sixth in the conference standings, five points behind No. 6 Ohio State. 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson said the competition for the CCHA regular-season title will stay fierce throughout the remainder of his team’s season. 
“Our conference is, right now, proving to be tougher than pretty much any other conference,” Jackson said. “The teams we’re playing now are going to be as, or more, difficult than the team’s we’ve just faced, and that applies every week in this conference.” 
Though the Irish and Miami (Ohio) entered the State team, both of whom sit ahead of the Irish with an even number of games played. Irish defenseman and captain Sean Lorenz said the team is focus­ing on playing loose, rather than looking at the crowded standings. 


“We just try to go out and have fun everyday,” Lorenz 
see CCHA/page 14 
season as national and CCHA favorites, it is the upstart Buckeyes from Ohio State who have surprised many by racing to a top-10 national ranking. They sit atop the CCHA stand­ings, despite coming off a cou­ple of down years. 
Jackson’s team is also jos­tling in the standings with a young Western Michigan squad and a physical Ferris 







