
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Scholars named new ILS directors 
Observer Staff Report 
José E. Limón, one of the country´s foremost scholars of Latino literature, has been named director of Notre Dame´s Institute for Latino Studies (ILS), the University announced in a press release Tues­day. As di­rector, he will hold the Julian Samo­ra Chair in Latino Stud-Limón ies. 

Timothy Matovina, an ex­pert on Latino Catholicism, will serve as executive director of the institute, which is part of the College of Arts and Letters. Both appointments take effect July 1. 
“I am extraordinarily pleased and grateful for the opportu­nity to lead the Institute for Latino Studies to even greater prominence and to place it at the center of the intellectual 

see ILS/page 7 


GSA decision postponed 
Notre Dame to address recognition of AllianceND in the fall 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
Senior News Writer 
Notre Dame announced Tuesday it would continue to consider whether to approve a gay-straight alliance as an official student club, deferring a decision until the beginning of the next academic year. The University also responded to requests for a public expla­nation as to why it did not add sexual orientation to its non­discrimination clause. 
The deferral marks the first time an application for a stu­dent club addressing lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and 
questioning  (LGBTQ)  issues  
was not denied.  
Director  of  Student  Activi­ 

ties for Programming Peggy Hnatusko sent an email to the co-presidents of AllianceND, the gay-straight alliance that applied for club status, notify­ing them of the deferral. 
“The University intends to review the breadth of struc­tures and services currently provided to LGBTQ students 


Housing development to open 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
Continuing the recent trend of land development near Notre Dame, the Northeast Neighbor­hood Revitalization Organiza­tion (NNRO) has begun work on its Triangle housing development near Eddy Street Commons. 
Located in the area north of State Road 23, south of Notre Dame’s woods and Napoleon Blvd., and east of Eddy Street, the Triangle is a mixed-income, single-family home development that comprises part of a plan created for the Northeast Neigh­borhood in 1998, Associate Vice President for Public Affairs Tim Sexton said. 
“The plan emphasized the want of residents for more single-family homes. There was a large exodus from the neighborhood in the 1970s and 1980s, and many homes were neglected or turned into rentals,” he said. “There’s a push for single-family homeown­ership, a safe community and beautifying the neighborhood.” 
The Triangle features 53 sin-gle-family home development lots available for purchase by the public, provided the buyers plan to occupy the home as their pri­mary residence, said Phil Byrd, South Bend Heritage Foundation director of real estate. Currently, 45 lots have been claimed. 

Byrd said 30 percent of the Tri­angle’s lots are set aside for low to moderate-income buyers who earn less than 80 percent of the county median income, adjusted for family size. 
The remaining lots are avail­able to buyers of any income level, which will contribute to the diverse character of the Northeast Neighborhood, Sex­ton said. 
“The intent is to replicate and continue the wonder­ful diversity of the Northeast Neighborhood,” Sexton said. “That intent has been received extremely well.” 
Construction has begun on one home in the Triangle, and 


see TRIANGLE/page 8 

and their allies by the Univer­sity in the hopes of making the best decisions possible to sup­port our students and the Uni­versity community, all within the context of Catholic teach­ing,” she stated in the email. “I will review AllianceND’s ap­plication in the course of those discussions.” 
In her 15 years as director, Hnatusko said this is the first year she has deferred a deci­sion about a club’s status. 

see GSA/page 8 
Doyle replaced at Student Affairs 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Editor-in-Chief 
After just two years on the job, Fr. Thomas Doyle will be replaced as vice president for Student Af­fairs, the University announced Tuesday. 
Erin Hoff­man Hard­ing, vice president for strategic planning, will replace Doyle on Aug. 1, at which point Doyle will become a faculty fellow in the Institute for Educa­tional Initiatives as well as a pas­toral minister and adviser to the Office of Human Resources. 
“Erin brings with her to this new position a wide range of ex­traordinary skills that will serve the University well,” University President Fr. John Jenkins said 

see DOYLE/page 9 
Volunteer house to be dedicated to Seeberg 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
The legacy of former Saint Mary’s student Lizzy Seeberg will be kept alive when a volunteer house in Chicago is dedicated dur­ing a ceremony Sunday. 
The Lizzy Seeberg Jesuit Alumni Volunteer House, located in Chi­cago’s West Side Austin neighbor­hood, will become a permanent home for seven recent college grad­uates who serve as Jesuit Alumni Volunteers (JAV) at Christ the King Jesuit College Preparatory School in Austin. 
Seeberg, who passed away in September 2010, was a commit­ted volunteer at Christ the King, and a memorial fund established in her name raised $250,000 for the school and its programs in 16 months, her father, Tom Seeberg, said. 
“After [Lizzy] died, someone involved with the school came to [my wife and me] and said Lizzy inspired them to do more for the school, so they said they would es­tablish a fund in her name at Christ the King,” he said. “We were unre­strictive in saying the money could go wherever there is need, and there was a need for housing for the JAVs and an opportunity to buy a three-flat across from the school.” 
Seeberg said the house was pur­chased with money from the me­morial fund in spring 2011, and additional funds were raised to pay for the renovations that began that summer. 
“There’s been an incredible out­pouring of generosity in people wanting to [donate to the fund],” Seeberg said. “For us, it’s really neat that her name is connected to something she cared a lot about, but the fact that it’s connected to other young people who serve is really nice too. We could totally see her living as one of the volunteers in this house.” 
Incidentally, four of the 10 JAVs working at the two Cristo Rey 
see HOUSE/page 8 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students feel attached to cab driver page 3 u Viewpoint page 10 u Fashion by Felicia page 12 u Baseball defeats Butler page 24 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Wednesday, May 2, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU MOST EXCITED FOR THIS SUMMER? 







www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin News Editor: John Cameron Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwick@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Tori Roeck Andrew Gastelum Bridget Feeney Mike Monaco Ann Marie Jakubowski Ernst Cleofe Graphics Scene Lisa Hoeynck Mary Claire O’Donnell Photo Viewpoint Sarah O’Connor Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The May 1 edition of The Observer featured an article about Lindsay Ellis in error regarding the following: Saint Mary’s has not received notification that the funding for the Institute has been granted by Congress; no contract has been issued and signed, therefore it was premature to announce that the College has been granted with funds; the program is a 5 week institute; it is not a study of global women leaders but rather an institute designed to inform the participants about the U.S. and to help establish connections and relationships with the students in the U.S. The Observer regrets these errors.  
HIGH 82 LOW 68 



Zuri Eshun Drew Williams 
sophomore junior Pasquerilla East Stanford 
“Going to the “Chris Luboja Cannes Film not being a Festival with the Notre Dame documentary student team!” anymore.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
Molly Geraghty 
freshman Pasquerilla West 
“Waterskiing.” 

Sarah Krajewski 
senior off campus 
“Swimming with dolphins.” 


OFFBEAT 
1958 postcard mailed from Chicago finally arrives 
CHICAGO — A postcard mailed from Chicago in 1958 has finally reached its intended recipient, but not without a little help from Facebook. 
The Chicago Sun-Times re­ports that a postcard depict­ing Shedd Aquarium recent­ly arrived at Scott McMurry’s Virginia home, more than five decades after his mom mailed it. 
The 71-year-old says he immediately recognized his mother’s handwriting. 
The postcard was ad­dressed to Clairmont Lane in Decatur, Georgia, where McMurry grew up. But it re­cently arrived in Elizabeth Fulcher’s mailbox on Clair­mont Lane in South Daytona, Florida. 

Fulcher posted a picture of the postcard on Facebook and her friends helped track down McMurry. 
The half-century mail de­lay remains a mystery. 
In the meantime, the aquarium has offered to give him a tour of the attraction that his late parents visited. 
Inflatable houses cushion bear’s fall from tree 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. — When a black bear climbed a tree in a central Arkan­sas city and refused to come down, authorities turned to unconventional rescue tools: bouncy houses. 
Foster the Bear — named for the residential street where he holed up in a tree 
— wouldn’t budge from his branch Monday. So, authori­ties turned to a local hard­ware store owner who rents inflatable houses and castles for children’s birthday par­ties. 
They asked him to set up two of the bouncy contrap­tions beneath the tree. Then, wildlife officials shot the bear with tranquilizer darts. 
“Foster was fine, just knocked out,” she said. 
Wildlife officials plan to release the bear somewhere in the Ozark Mountains. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
A discussion and question and answer session on “The National Science Founda­tion: Inside and Out” will be given by Dr. Kathie L. Olsen today at 3:30 p.m. in room 105 of Jordan Hall of Sci­ence. 
A physics colloquium will be offered by Prof. Lawrence 
S. Cardman today at 4 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
The Zahm Spring Car­nival will take place today from 4 to 7 p.m. on North Quad. Free food, games, and activities will be offered. 
Lyons and O’Neill Halls are offering Recess on South Quad today from 4 to 6 p.m.  with free food and activities. 
The Class of 2014 Mass will take place today at 5:15 
p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Notre Dame men’s baseball team takes on Val­paraiso today at 5:35 p.m. in the Eck Baseball Stadium. Student tickets cost $5. 
The Notre Dame women’s softball team takes on East­ern Michigan tonight at 6 
p.m. at the Melissa Cook Softball Stadium. Student tickets cost $5. 
A film and panel discus­sion on Immigration and La­bor: “Bread & Roses” is tak­ing place tonight at 7 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets cost $3-6. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 









HIGH 87 LOW 66 
HIGH 77 LOW 61 
HIGH 74 LOW 61 
HIGH 77 LOW 47 

Wednesday, May 2, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Cab driver bonds with patrons 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
For Gail Hickey, cab driv­ing is far more than just a source of income. It’s an op­portunity to forge bonds of loyalty and trust with mem­bers of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
“To me, it’s more than just a job, it’s about getting in­volved in student’s lives and what they’re doing,” Hickey said. 
Hickey said the strong cus­tomer relationships she has formed during five years in the business motivate her to continue cab driving. 
“The only thing that could possibly be keeping me go­ing at this point is that these kids have become like my family,” she said. 
Hickey said her experience as a mother has strongly in­fluenced her treatment of the students who ride in her cab. 
“I try and treat students the way I would like to have my daughter treated when she’s out and running around,” Hickey said. “If anyone is ever not feeling well, I’m pretty much at their dispos­al, even if I’m not working. Students know if they’re in trouble or in a bind that I’ll help them out.” 
Hickey said her approach to cab driving is special be­cause she values respect and customer loyalty more than making a quick dollar through rapid turnarounds and impersonal service. 
“Where others see money, I see students,” she said.  “It’s a whole different mentality. For me, it’s all about getting repeat business, and that’s why I do as well as I do.” 
Hickey said she greatly en­joys interacting with Notre Dame students and with one minor exception, she has not had problems driving them. 
In her second year of cab driving, Hickey said a group of students fled the cab with­out paying, but were ulti­mately chased down by a graduate student also travel­ing with her at the time. 
“He cornered them by Alumni [Hall] and said ‘This is Gail. You don’t do that,’” Hickey said.  “They all ended up coming back and paying.” 
Hickey said it is often bit­tersweet and emotionally taxing to say goodbye to stu­dents she has formed close friendships with. 
“It’s both rewarding and sad, seeing students gradu­ate,” Hickey said. “It’s like watching your kids grow up and go out into the world.” 
Hickey said she has never felt endangered at her job due to the size and familiar­ity of her client base. 
“I know a lot of the people I drive, so at no point have I really felt like I’m in peril,” Hickey said. “If I were any­where else but here, I cer­tainly wouldn’t be doing what I’m doing.” 
Hickey said her least fa­vorite part of cab driving is the large time commitment required to be successful in the business, especially on Notre Dame football week­ends. 
“Football weekends are pretty intense, they just about kill me because I’m constantly moving,” she said. 
In the future, Hickey said she hopes to continue cab driving while also shoulder­ing increased family respon­sibilities. 
“I’m going to do this as long as I can, because I still en­joy it,” Hickey said. “I clearly love what I’m doing.” 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 

Fitness test undergoes changes, improvements 

By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
The Class of 2016 will ex­perience a new wave of fit­ness testing during the next academic year. 
The Physical Education and Wellness Department recently implemented an ad­ditional fitness test, called a post-test, to occur in April of students’ freshman years, in addition to the swim test and pre-test in August. 
Steve Bender, a visiting faculty instructor to the de­partment, said the staff con­ducted a successful trial run of the post-test at the Loftus Center on members of the current freshman class last week. 
“The feedback that we’ve gotten has been incredible and the test exceeded our expectations,” Bender said. “We had probably 90 to 95 percent of the students ac­tually ‘go for it’ by pushing themselves and not blowing it off.” 
The new test will consist of pushups, sit-ups, a 1.5­mile run, and sit-and-reach flexibility, Bender said. He said instructors used to administer the fitness test during the Contemporary Topics course, and the test’s components were at the dis­cretion of the instructor. 
“We decided to make it consistent and thought we’d get better results in a larger group,” Bender said. “Some­times if you had 30 people in your Contemporary Topics class and walked during the test, it was obvious and you stood out.” 
“We thought that if there were 200 people on the track at the same time, nobody cared and nobody would no­tice at all,” he added. 
Bender said the primary benefit of the new system would be the instant feed­back on levels of muscular fitness and cardiovascular endurance. 
“The student will be able to log in online and know right off the bat where their results fit in nationally,” he said. “They’ll also be able to see where they are in com­parison to males and fe­males at Notre Dame.” 
A goal of the department is to show that physical educa­tion is a part of a student’s academic experience, Bend­er said. 
“The more fit you are, the better student you’ll be as fiscal and physical go hand-in-hand,” Bender said. “We’re trying to show that fitness is a lifestyle, so if we can extend it throughout your freshman year, then you’ll have a better chance the next three years of keep­ing with it … Instead of a one-shot deal, we’re trying to set the tone and hope­fully the it stays with you throughout your whole life.” 
Overall, Bender said he was pleased with the results from the trial run and is ready for the fall. 
“We always knew Notre Dame students were ultra-competitive in the class­room. That carried over to the test, too,” he said. 
The  fitness  training  
learned  during  freshman  
year physical  education  

should apply to finals week and the days leading up to it, Bender said. 
“I recommend 30 minutes of some kind of cardiovas­cular exercise each day to get you away from the mo­notony of sitting in front of that computer or read­ing that book,” Bender said. “Sometimes you don’t think you have that 30 minutes, but when you come back, it’s just like taking a 5-Hour En­ergy, as you’ve got that en­ergy and it stays with you longer.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, May 2, 2012 

Seminarian to bike 1,150 miles for charity 

By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
To spread the Catholic pro-life message, senior Stephen Barany, an undergraduate seminarian in Old College, will bike 1,150 miles from New Orleans to Chicago from May 21 to 29 with the charity Bik­ing for Babies. 
According to a press release from the organization, Biking for Babies seeks to raise money for women in crisis pregnancies. 
In addition to biking 90 to 190 miles per day, the group of 10 rid­ers will stop at parishes along the way to speak about the dignity of all life and campaign against abortion, according to the press release. 
“Biking for Babies is important because it is an opportunity to spread the good news of life,” Ba­rany said. “It’s hard to believe, but people don’t often hear about the goodness of life.” 
Now in its fourth year, the Bik­ing for Babies event hopes to gross $40,000, the press release stated. 
A major beneficiary of the fund­raiser is the Women’s Care Center Foundation in South Bend, which, according to the press release, “of­fers pregnancy tests, ultrasounds, counseling, plus childbirth and newborn care classes and more.” 
However, Barany said the event is more than just a fundraiser. 
“Biking for Babies helps to build a culture open to life and prac­tically provide for families who want to choose life,” Barany said. “Practically, the money we raise helps provide the means for wom­en’s resource centers to continue their great work.” 
Biking for Babies was founded by Jimmy Becker and Mike Schae­fer, University of Illinois alumni. Barany said Schaefer is one of his closest friends. 
Barany said he got involved with Biking for Babies last year by driv­ing the support vehicle that ac­companied the riders. 
“Last year, as the support driv­er, I saw the impact the ride had on the lives of individuals we met along the way,” he said. “People at parishes, gas stations and even grocery stores were excited for the work we were doing. They wanted to know more about us and do more for the pro-life cause.” 
Barany said his Catholic faith shapes his pro-life outlook. 
“I’d like to think that the life I lead is informed and shaped by the Easter message that Christ is ris­en,” he said. “I try never to forget John 10:10: ‘Christ came that we might have life and have it more abundantly.’” 
Biking for Babies effectively pub­licizes the needs of women affect­ed by crisis pregnancies through a pro-life lens, Barany said. 
“With public discussion so cen­tered on policy, rights and econ­omy, people forget the real issue at hand,” he said. “It’s not a mat­ter of numbers and statistics. It’s about real people with real prob­lems who need and deserve more than what society offers them. It’s about communicating the dignity of every life and honoring women by giving them a real chance to choose life.” 
Participating in Biking for Ba­bies will truly make a difference in the lives of women affected by crisis pregnancies, Barany said. 
“I believe that Biking for Ba­bies has the power to change and save lives,” he said. “Otherwise, I wouldn’t be involved.” 
For more information about Biking for Babies, visit bikingforb­abies.com. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


Speaker discusses professional women 

By KATIE CARLISLE 
News Writer 

In Carroll Auditorium on Tuesday evening, Kathy Ameche closed the fourth Saint Mary’s Bold Beauty Conference with a keynote address on the experi­ence of women in the workplace. 
Ameche has authored a book, designed a line of travel gear for women and worked in the pro­fessional world. Ameche served as an accountant at Deloitte and a consultant and chief informa­tion officer at Tribune Compa­ny. After an introduction from senior and event coordinator JoLynn Williams, Ameche im­mediately engaged the audience in introductions. 
“Everyone stand up, turn to the person next to you and in­troduce yourself,” she said. Ameche observed the greetings exchanged in the audience and said they would not all be appro­priate in the professional world. 
“I saw some handshakes and hugging, but we won’t be doing that in the corporate world,” she said. 
She advised students to give their first job a fair chance. 
“The most important thing is that you got your first job,” she said. “Don’t write it off if you don’t like it right away. Use the three-strikes-you’re-out rule.” 
Ameche also said profes­sional women should stay up-to­date with companies on Google Alerts, network and dress for success. 
Ameche focused on the im­portance of appearance in the professional world, a topic ad­dressed in the Bold Beauty Conference. She emphasized researching a company’s dress policy and even the type of cor­porate culture. If the company is more conservative, avoid wear­ing low-cut blouses and open-toed shoes, she said. Although Ameche said dressing profes­sionally is important, women in the workforce should not worry about physical beauty affecting their work. 
“Don’t get hung up on beauty,” she said. “I do look at appear­ance, but not beauty.” 
Ameche said double stan­dards still exist for professional women. 
“We [women] have to play the game a little [in order to be successful],” she said. How­ever, Ameche stressed the im­portance of not simply ignoring these double standards cur­rently in place but knowing how and when to resist them, which was a theme of the Bold Beauty Conference. 
Senior Rebecca Jones said she appreciated Ameche’s advice. 
“As a graduating senior who is currently job searching, her initial advice concerning first impressions and how something as simple as a handshake can be meaningful is significant to me,” Jones said. 
Ameche ended her talk with some words of inspiration. 
“You have a lot to give and a lot to offer,” she said, “Don’t for­get that.” 
Contact Katie Carlisle at kcarli02@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, May 2, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 

Graduate launches own label to record album 
By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
Country crooner Zach Du-Bois hasn’t missed a beat since graduating from Notre Dame last May. 
The Elkhart, Ind., native visited South Bend earlier this week to perform at the Golden Gnome on Monday night. He has played in ap­proximately 15 states in the Midwest and Southeast since beginning his spring tour in late January. 
Performing professionally is more feasible than peo­ple think, DuBois said, but it requires business knowl­edge in addition to musical talent. 
“You can be the best song­writer in the world, but if you don’t have the business savvy, no one’s ever going to find out about you,” he said. “You really need to walk that line between your art and your business.” 
DuBois launched a record label last winter, and said he is learning the business skills necessary to run it as he goes along. 
“It’s one of those things where you just decide to do it and you find a way to make it happen,” DuBois said. “My body of knowledge is evolv­ing and expanding every day, which is a good thing … I’m very far from where I need to be, but I’m working every day to get there.” 
DuBois said he was sur­prised how draining be­ing on the road is, and has learned to approach his job professionally. 
“People think that you’re a musician, you go out and party and get drunk at a bar every night … but that couldn’t be farther from the truth,” he said. “If I would go out and get drunk every night when I play, my prod­uct would suffer so, so ter­ribly.” 
Dubois said he picked up the guitar the summer be­fore his senior year of high school when he suffered a stress fracture, preventing him from participating in football practice. 
“I was watching GAC [Great American Country], which is country music tele­vision, and a Dierks Bent­ley song came on,” DuBois said. “I was like, ‘You know what, I should do that.’ My dad played guitar, had just taught himself off and on, so we had an old guitar … and so I took that guitar out, and I guess you could say the rest is history.” 
The injury was a bless­ing in disguise, DuBois said, and he wrote a song titled “Happens for a Reason” to describe the benefits that can come from challenges. 
DuBois said he played in front of a crowd for the first time during the Keenan Re­vue at Notre Dame. 
“I wrote a song for it called ‘Hip-Hop Night at Legends,’ and it’s a pretty raunchy song,” he said. “So the first time I ever played in front of people was … in front of 2,000 people.” 
DuBois majored in psy­chology and pre-profession­al studies with the goal of becoming a doctor, but de­cided to pursue a career in music while taking an en­trepreneurship class during his senior year. 
“It was one of those things that just kind of progressed and evolved naturally,” Du-Bois said. “I kind of want­ed to drop out of school at one point and move down to Nashville, but I never vocal­ized it.” 
DuBois said playing cov­ers of country singer Corey Smith’s songs in Athens, Ga., was one of his favorite expe­riences as a musician so far, but he is excited to perform in Indiana this spring. 
DuBois released a single titled “Back Home Again” in April and will record a full album in August. 
“The way I see it is music is kind of a snowball effect,” he said. “It starts out slow and it’s really hard to get it started … [Recording my next album is] probably as far ahead as I’ve thought so far. Hopefully I keep moving in the right direction, but how fast I keep moving in that direction, I don’t know.” 
Amateur musicians who want to pursue careers as performers should be pre­pared to work hard because the job is “a grind,” DuBois said. 
“I would say the big thing is learn how to work the line between your art and your business because that’s the biggest balancing act that you’re going to do,” DuBois said. “If you focus on one thing, you’re not going to succeed too much, so you re­ally need to walk that line and balance the art and the business aspect.” 
In order to succeed, musi­cians must remember that no one will do their work for them, DuBois said. 

“You have to do it all on your own, especially start­ing out, but who better to manage your career than yourself … so you’re going to want to work that hard any­way,” he said. “But I would say that’s a feasible thing to do. It’s definitely a feasible thing and it’s something that you can do if you’re willing to work hard at it.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 



Wednesday, May 2, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 

Conference highlights society’s perceptions of beauty 
By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer
 Saint Mary’s hosted the Bold Beauty Conference for the fourth time Tuesday in the College’s stu­dent center, featuring student projects and presentations on so­ciety’s conceptions of beauty. 
Seniors Laura Glaub and JoLynn Williams coordinated this year’s event with assistance from professor Terri L. Russ. 
Glaub said the conference showcased a variety of perspec­tives on beauty. 
“One person is doing a poem and [another person is present­ing on] how to recover from sexu­al assault,” Glaub said. “We tried to do more hands-on events this year. There is a poster to write about what food men and women are compared to in the lounge.” 
The project fair began at 11 
a.m. in the student center atri­um, and Iin the student center lounge, Barbie dolls created in Russ’s Female Beauty class this semester and in previous semes­ters were on display. 
Some of the featured Bar­bie Dolls were the Trophy Wife Barbie from two years ago, the Regina George Barbie, Call Me Maybe Barbie, Teenage Barbie, 16 and Pregnant Barbie, SMC Barbie and ND Barbie, PMS Bar­bie and more. Each Barbie had below it an explanation of its sig­nificance. 
Senior Anabel Castaneda said her Barbie was S&M Barbie. 
“My Barbie goes off of the dou­ble bind that women have to live up to,” Castaneda said. “Women are expected to be one thing and then another thing again. Wom­en are expected to balance that.” 
Projects addressed topics such as the magazine Cosmopolitan, movies, phot shoppin, andsoth­ers. 
Saint Mary’s senior Kate Park said the project she created with senior Katie Greenspon con­cerned today’s plus-size model.
 “The new plus-size model is considered a size six,” Park said. “So a size six and above is con­sidered plus-size, which we be­lieve is absolutely ludicrous and that is why we are doing our project on that.” 
Junior Sara Gray said her proj­ect focused on physical attrac­tiveness in the work place.
 “I’m talking about their weight, the look, and how that affects [women] when they go in for a job,” Gray said. “It’s so true that more physically attrac­tive women get higher positions and more benefits. Seventy-fiv percent of managers said they would rather have women work just as hard on their resume as their appearance. When you’re attractive they associate really good characteristics to you.” 
Senior Kelsey Smolek said she focused her project on photo manipulation and went through advertisements of both male and female models to see how photo editors changed their appear­ances to make them look more attractive. 


“[This manipulation is] sort of giving little girls and women an image that they can’t live up to,” Smolek said. “These types of im­ages can cause bulimia, anorex­ia, and other issues.” 
Gray said her project featured photos of celebrities such as Be­yoncé, Kelly Clarkson, Kim Kar­dashian and revealed the heavy editing that went into their pic­tures. Women are given thinner-
to working with Executive Di-to build on the strong founda-
ILS 
rector Timothy Matovina as tion that Gilberto Cárdenas has 
well as the College of Arts and laid at the Institute for Latino continued from page 1 Letters and its departmental Studies,” Matovina said. 
chairs.” Limón is the Notre Dame life at Notre Dame,” Limón said “I look forward to working Professor of American Lit-in the release. “I look forward with my colleague José Limón erature in the Department Aarmssand stomachs, and men are given bigger muscles, she said. 

“It’s just really disturbing to look at,” Smolek said. 
Junior Amanda Stukel said she dressed in outfits depict­ing particular stereotypes on Saint Mary’s campus and Notre Dame’s campus to see how peo­ple would react. 
“A lot of people began to con­tradict themselves when they made comments,” Stukel said. “This definitely shows that peo­ple size you up within 10 seconds. 
of English. He has authored three major books in the field of Latino studies: “American Encounters: Greater Mexico, the United States and the Erot­ics of Culture,” “Dancing with the Devil: Society and Cultural Poetics in Mexican-American South Texas” and “Mexican Ballads, Chicano Poems: His­tory and Influence in Mexi­can-American Social Poetry.” The University of Texas Press will publish his fourth book, “Américo Paredes: Culture and Critique,” in fall 2012, accord­ing to the release. 
Limón teaches and writes on the literature of the American South. His academic interests include cultural studies, La­tino literature, anthropology and literature, Mexicans in the United States, U.S.-Mexico cul­tural relations, critical theory, folklore and popular culture. 
Matovina, a professor of the­ology, is completing a 10-year term as director of the College’s Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 
His new book, “Latino Ca­tholicism: Transformation in America’s Largest Church,” published by Princeton Univer­sity Press, analyzes the five­century-long history of Latino Catholics in America and how that history has affected them and their Church. 
Arts and Letters Dean John We found that dressed up attire at Notre Dame was not as criti­cized as it is here on Saint Mary’s campus. It’s very much more re­laxed here at Saint Mary’s.” 
Glaub said the purpose of the conference was to inspire stu­dents to stick up for true beauty.
 “There are events that teach you to fight back and be an ad­vocate for female beauty,” Glaub said… “We’re trying to show people how to fight back.” 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 
McGreevy said Cárdenas led ILS commendably since its cre­ation in 1999. Cárdenas is a distinguished scholar of Mexi­can immigration and Latino art and serves as an assistant provost and sociology profes­sor. 
“Gil Cardenas’s achievement is to place Notre Dame at the center of Latino studies in the 
U.S. through his visionary lead­ership of multiple programs, in fields as diverse as Latino health, immigration and La­tino art,” McGreevy said. “We are deeply grateful for his ef­forts.” 
Latino studies is a key ele­ment of the academic mission of both the College and the Uni­versity, McGreevy said. 
“The stakes for Notre Dame in Latino studies are unusu­ally high. Latinos are already a central part of American cul­ture, business and politics, and this influence — important for all Americans, not just Latinos 
— will only grow in coming de­cades,” he said in the release. 
“At the same time, Lati­nos will soon number half of American Catholics, a develop­ment reflected in Notre Dame’s rapidly growing number of La­tino students. I look forward to working with two eminent scholars … in helping us to become preeminent in this area. 


page 8 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, May 2, 2012 
Triangle 
continued from page 1 
there could be 10 homes under construction by August, Sex­ton said. The development has a projected completion date in 2014. 
The infrastructure of the Tri­angle development will be com­pleted by mid-August, including streets, curbs, sidewalks, sew­ers, water and electric systems, Byrd said. 
“State Road 23 will be ex­panded from Twyckenham Drive to Campeau Street, so all the houses on the south side of the street will be demolished to make room for the expanded new road,” he said. “The Tri­angle will fit in nicely with this area.” 
Byrd said the project has in­volved close collaboration be­tween the residents of the North­east Neighborhood and the five funding partners of the NNRO: Notre Dame, the City of South Bend, St. Joseph Regional Medi­cal Center, the Madison Center and the South Bend Clinic. 
“For everything we’ve done in the neighborhood, we’ve had countless meetings to maintain a good relationship with the neighbors and residents,” Byrd said. “Our relationships with all the partners are excellent … we get tons of help from them both financially and in guidance.” 
Sexton said this partnership between the NNRO and the neighborhood’s residents facili­tates constructive collaboration on projects like the Triangle de­velopment. 
“Each funding partner has at least one member on the NNRO board, and seven long-term resi­dents are on the board as well. They have equal say with the funding partners about all de­cisions,” he said. “It’s a unique model that could be replicated in other communities. The corpo­rate partnership-neighborhood aspect has been a huge win.” 
Notre Dame has been a fund­ing partner of the NNRO since its inception in 2000, and the University is working with the South Bend Heritage Founda­tion to develop the Triangle, Sexton said. 
“Notre Dame helps fund the NNRO, which enables us to help divide the land and develop the project,” he said. 
Similar to the partnership between Notre Dame and Eddy Street Commons, Sexton said the Triangle development will strengthen Notre Dame’s rela­tionship with South Bend. 
“I had a meeting with Mayor Pete Buttigieg this morning, and from his perspective, we have a great opportunity to have a campus-downtown connection … through the Triangle, Eddy Street Commons, the new Saint Joseph’s High School on Notre Dame Avenue and a new devel­opment in the East Bank Vil­lage area,” Sexton said. “It’s a great win for the city of South Bend, and since they’re a fund­ing partner of the NNRO, they’re thrilled about the Triangle proj­ect.” 
Sexton said continuing to de­velop land near Notre Dame’s campus will be beneficial to both students and community residents. 
“I perceive Eddy Street [Com­mons] as a benefit for students because restaurants and busi­nesses have relocated there,” he said. “The more people we can build homes for in the neighbor­hood, the more chance we have for businesses to relocate and benefit students.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
House 
continued from page 1 
schools in Chicago are recent Notre Dame graduates, including 2011 alumna Lauren McCallick, who will be living in the new vol­unteer house. 
McCallick said the house is lo­cated in the same neighborhood as the Christ the King so the JAVs serving there can live near the school. 
“The location of the house is intention on the part of the pro­gram,” she said. “We want to fully understand the community that we serve, and we hope that a will­ingness to live close to our students and their families demonstrates our solidarity.” 
Seeberg said the strong Notre Dame presence in the JAV pro­gram speaks to the spirit of service instilled in students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. 
“The Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communities have always been associated with stepping up with respect to service to the local and global community,” he said. “Lizzy left a very positive legacy in that she was very much a giver and was connected to the needs of others. That’s something that can live on to help other kids continue to serve, and it’s rewarding for us.” 
McCallick will be living in the house next year. She said her in­terest in service began at Notre Dame when she participated in 

GSA 
continued from page 1 
“I just wanted a little bit more time to look at the pro­posal, look at what the Uni­versity offered,” she said. “There has been a lot going on and I wanted to give everyone the fairest chance possible.” 
Hnatusko also deferred the decision regarding the ap­plication of a law school club seeking to address LGBTQ is­sues. 
University Spokesman Den­nis Brown said leaders from various sectors of the Univer­sity will come together this summer to review the struc­tures and services currently in place for LGBTQ students and their allies. 
“We want to take a close and comprehensive look at exactly what we do, what we could do and what we should do, all in the context of Catho­lic teaching,” he said. 
Brown said the University has made significant progress on improving support for LG-several service programs through the Center for Social Concerns. 
“I don’t think I would even be doing a long-term service program like [JAV] if I hadn’t been exposed to service experiences at Notre Dame,” she said. “I did an ACE internship the summer before my senior year and found out about the Cristo Rey model there … Two Notre Dame graduates explained JAV to me at the postgraduate service fair, and I thought it was perfect because I could be involved with a [Cristo Rey] school I cared about.” 
McCallick said she became fa­miliar with Lizzy’s story shortly after her death through a student in her dorm section who was one of Lizzy’s good friends from high school. 
“I got to hear a lot about Lizzy and her commitment to service, and it was very inspiring to know her background from one of my residents,” McCallick said. “When I got into working at the school, I found out she was involved at the school, embodied service there and dedicated a lot to the school from the beginning. She was like an original JAV at Christ the King.” 
As a high school student, Lizzy became interested in the Cristo Rey high school program after her parents attended an informa­tional session in early 2008 about the plans for Christ the King to be­come the second Cristo Rey school in Chicago, Seeberg said. The first was Cristo Rey Jesuit High School, which opened in the Pilsen neigh-
who serves as co-president of AllianceND, said he views the deferral as a positive change. (Editor’s note: Coccia is a col­umnist for The Observer’s Viewpoint section.) 
“This is the first deferral and [I] think that is extremely important in and of itself,” he said. “I am encouraged that the decision to defer is part of what seems to be a broader exami­nation of structures and ser­vices at Notre Dame.” 
Coccia said he hopes stu­dents, faculty and staff will continue to voice their opinions on the issue over the summer and into next fall. 
“I think the most important thing right now is that student voices ... are a part of the pro­cess and part of the broad re­view,” he said. 
Former student body presi­dent Pat McCormick and mem­bers of the outgoing student government administration will meet with the Board of Trustees on Thursday and plan to express the student body’s support of a gay-straight al­liance. McCormick said they also plan to emphasize the im­portance of incorpo-
BTQ  students  “There has been a lot of  rating stu­ 
over the past few years, and he said the ad-m i n i s t r at io n appreciates the different per­spectives that were offered on  good give and take and we think it all has been with a common commitment to make Notre Dame a more welcoming and inclusive and supportive community.”  dent voices throughout the review process. B r o w n also of­fered an ex p l a n a - 
this issue  over  tion  Tues- 
the  course  of  Dennis Brown  day  for  
the year.  academic  University spokesman  last week’s announce­ 
“There  has  ment  that  
been a lot of  the Univer­ 
good give and  sity  would  

take and we think it all has not include sexual orientation been with a common commit-in its nondiscrimination clause. ment to make Notre Dame a Brown said changing the non-more welcoming and inclusive discrimination clause could and supportive community,” lead to legal challenges that Brown said. “That is how the might undermine the Universi-University leadership will ap-ty’s ability to adhere to Catholic proach the deliberations and moral teaching. discussions throughout the “We’ve looked at this very summer and into the fall in closely from a legal and theo­terms of how we can more logical perspective and just fully realize that goal.” have no assurance that the civil 
Sophomore Alex Coccia, courts would respect the dis­borhood in 1996. 
“The Cristo Rey model offers disadvantaged students a high-quality secondary education as a springboard out of poverty and into college … My wife and I were talking about [Christ the King] and Lizzy displayed a strong interest in it,” he said. “She asked us what it meant to have the privilege of liv­ing in a safe environment with a great school … when other kids don’t have a chance for a decent education, and we told her those are good questions.” 
Seeberg said his daughter took it upon herself to organize volunteer projects among members of her youth group at St. Norbert Parish in Northbrook, Ill. to support Christ the King, including an information session to raise awareness of the school’s mission in her community. 
“She had a real sense of need in others and was always trying to reach out and help,” he said. “The lesson we take away from her is this notion of putting your faith in action and not being so passive. A lot of folks that might consider themselves privileged don’t always get directly involved, so her mes­sage was, ‘Be active in your minis­try and your mission.’” 
The house dedication will begin at noon Sunday  with a Mass in the St. Ignatius Chapel at Christ the King Jesuit College Prep, located at 5088 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, Ill. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
tinctions within Catholic moral teaching, the distinctions rela­tive to orientation and conduct in particular,” he said. 
Brown said it was “a collec­tive decision” to maintain the current wording of the non­discrimination clause, though University President Fr. John rently part of the University’s discriminatory harassment policy, which protects current students and employees expe­riencing harassment. Changing the nondiscrimination clause, on the other hand, would pro­tect prospective students and employees in areas such as ad-
Jenkins ulti­mately made the 
“We think it is important 
call.  
Unlike some for our faculty and staff Catholic uni-and students to not only versities, Notre feel just comfortable Dame is not re-here, but to know that if quired by state the need were to arise, 
law to include 
that they have access to 
sexual orienta­
a full range of remedies, 
tion in its non-
including legal remedies, 
discrimination 
if they were wronged 
clause, Brown 
in any way because of 
said. There is 
not a federal law sexual orientation.” that requires it, either. Dennis Brown 
“The vast ma-
University spokesman 
jority of those who have added have had to do so missions, employ ­ment, schol ar­ships and athletics. 
Brown 
also  said  
the  aca­ 
demic  ar­ 

ticles of the University also pro­vide pro­tection by prohibiting any kind of discrimi ­nation. However, sexual ori­
because of either state or local laws,” he said. “We have chosen to not voluntarily add it, which is what it would be. It would be a voluntary addition.” 
Across the street, Saint Mary’s College includes sexual orientation in its nondiscrimi­nation clause, though it is not required by law to do so. 
“Different institutions make different decisions,” Brown said. “We believe that our com­mitment to inclusion and our commitment not to discrimi­nate on the basis of sexual ori­entation is every bit as strong as any other institution.” 
Brown emphasized that Notre Dame does not discrimi­nate or tolerate harassment on the basis of any personal char­acteristic, including sexual ori­entation. 
“We think it is important for our faculty and staff and stu­dents to not only feel just com­fortable here, but to know that if the need were to arise, that they have access to a full range of remedies, including legal remedies, if they were wronged in any way because of sexual orientation,” he said. 
Sexual orientation is cur­entation is not listed among the acceptable discrimination factors for appealing tenure, reappointment or promotion decisions. 
The academic articles in­clude an option for employees to appeal these decisions on the basis of personal bias, which is the “consideration of factors unrelated to the performance of the appellant in carrying out his or her professional respon­sibilities.” However, it is not clear whether sexual orienta­tion fits into that description. 
Without sexual orientation in the nondiscrimination clause, it is also unclear if prospec­tive students and employees have legal protection if they feel they are denied admis­sion or employment on the ba­sis of their sexual orientation. When asked if any University policies offer such a protec­tion in writing, Brown said in an email, “we have clearly and publicly stated and demon­strated that we don’t discrimi­nate, and we stand by that posi­tion.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

Wednesday, May 2, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 9 
Doyle 
continued from page 1 
in a press release. “I am likewise grateful to Tom Doyle for his ex­cellent leadership and service over the past two years … Above all, he has been a superb priest and brother in Holy Cross. His pastoral leadership has been a gift to our community and it will be ideal for his new responsibili­ties.” 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said Jenkins made the decision to replace Doyle. Despite the decision, Doyle told The Ob­server he greatly respects Jen­kins and was pleased to serve the University. 
“Fr. John and I have known each other since I was a semi­narian,” Doyle said. “I have the utmost respect for him and for the job that he has as president. Student Affairs is just one very important part of it. I’ve loved my two years working in Student Af­fairs. I’m looking forward to stay­ing at Notre Dame.” 
Doyle said he appreciated the counsel University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh provided him late last week when the transition was finalized. “[Hesburgh] couldn’t have been more supportive or gracious,” Doyle said. “He basically remind­ed me to treasure the fact that I’m a priest and that I get to be a priest — to look for interesting and meaningful work to do as a priest, and then he gave me his blessing up in his office … For us as priests, it’s our vocation and our sense of call and following that leads us.” 
Doyle said he was happy with his time overseeing Student Af­fairs and spoke highly of his suc­cessor. 
“There’s just a great peace when we know that we do our best and we live life with the most integrity that we can muster,” Doyle said. “I think it’s providen­tial for Erin Hoffman Harding, who I think is an extraordinarily exceptional person. She is not only exceptionally bright, [but] she has great institutional knowl­edge and insight. I think she has a great heart for students and stu­dent life on campus.” 
Building relationships with students and families has been his favorite part of the job, Doyle said. 
“I’ve had to be close with stu­dents and their families. That’s 
the part that just been in­credibly re­warding and enriching for me,” he said. “It allows me to say to the cynics of the world that there’s hope … You get a chance to see students at their very best — and sometimes when you ties for discovery or epiphany and awakening,” he said. “I wish for our students to be more gentle on themselves because I think they push themselves and drive them­selves exceptionally hard.” 
Doyle also encouraged the Notre Dame community to be more open to the University’s di­versity. “While we have a great sense of community here, I would wish our students and the faculty and staff [to be] more attentive and deliberately engaging and appreciative in the diversity that is around us — all kinds of diver­sity.” 
While he leaves office in the midst of a controversial discus­sion about LGBTQ rights on cam­pus, Doyle said he has faith in the 
“While we have a great sense of community here, I would wish our students and the faculty and staff [to be] more attentive and deliberately engaging and appreciative in the diversity that is around us — all kinds of diversity.” 
Fr. Tom Doyle vice president Student Affairs 
see them at their very worst, it’s the portal through which they’re going to become their very best.” 
After working closely with stu­dents, Doyle had some parting words of advice for students who may not interact with him in his new roles. 
“It sounds ironic, but I wish our students would fail more often, because I think sometimes fail­ure is one of the great opportuni­discussion pro­cess. 
“It’s not about who wins and who loses, but it’s how it is that we enter into a deep communi­ty with one an­other and how we reverence and respect one another and live up to all of what the Spirit of In­clusion calls us to,” Doyle said. “We need to 
trust one another and trust that there’s good faith on both sides — but never get so discouraged that we stop dialoguing. Once there’s dialogue — it might feel like evo­lution, like it’s slow — but as long as there’s dialogue there’s hope that we will find and discover truth.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Obama sees ‘light of a new day’ for United States 
Associated Press 
KABUL, Afghanistan — On a swift, secretive trip to the war zone, President Barack Obama declared Tuesday night that after years of sac­rifice the U.S. combat role in Afghanistan is winding down just as it has already ended in Iraq. “We can see the light of a new day,” he said on the an­niversary of Osama bin Lad­en’s death and in the midst of his own re-election campaign. 
“Our goal is to destroy al-Qaida, and we are on a path to do exactly that,” Obama said in an unusual speech to America broadcast from an air base halfway around the world. 
He spoke after signing an agreement with Afghan Presi­dent Hamid Karzai to cover the decade after the planned final withdrawal of U.S. com­bat troops in 2014. Obama said American forces will be involved in counter-terrorism and training of the Afghan military, “but we will not build permanent bases in this country, nor will we be patrol­ling its cities and mountains.” 
In a blunt reminder of Af­ghanistan’s fragile security situation, at least six people were killed in explosions in Kabul just hours after Obama left. Interior Ministry spokes­man Sediq Sediqi said a sui­cide car bomb exploded near Jalalabad road, one of the capital’s main thoroughfares. 
The president landed in Ba-gram in darkness, and his he­licopter roared to Kabul for the meeting with Karzai, un­der close guard with only the outlines of the nearby moun­tains visible. Later, back at the base, he was surrounded by U.S. troops, shaking every hand. He ended his lightning visit with the speech delivered straight to the television cam­era — and the voters he was trying to reach back home. 
Two armored troop carriers served as a backdrop, rather than the customary Oval Of­fice tableau. 
His Republican re-election foe, Mitt Romney, was in New York, where the destruction of the twin towers on Sept. 11, 2001, set in motion the deci­sions that led to the wars in both Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Romney accused Obama of politicizing the fleeting na­tional unity that came with the death of bin Laden, the 9/11 terror mastermind. 
In a statement released by his campaign later, Rom­ney said he was pleased that Obama had returned to Af­ghanistan, that the troops and the American people deserved to hear from the president what is at stake in the war. “Success in Afghanistan is vi­tal to our nation’s security,” he said. 



INSIDE COLUMN 
Enjoy 
hometown 
sports 
Maybe we shouldn’t think about it, but we have only one week and two days until freedom. 
Despite the chaotic nature of a closing semester and the inevitable stress of finals, I find it hard to pre­vent my mind from Peter Steiner wandering towards the approaching bliss. Sports Writer 
With no class or homework in sight after next Friday, I have already begun planning how I will spend my few free weeks in May before my summer schedule starts. The more I have thought about it, the more I realized exactly what I will be doing with my time and what I missed during this busy year: watching sports. 
Before entering my freshman year of college, I did not fully comprehend how busy life at Notre Dame really is. Between classes, homework, activities and a social life (forget about sleep), I found little to no time to watch my hometown teams compete. Add on the fact that I originate from out-of-state — southeastern Wisconsin to be exact — and it is next to impossible to find my team on television when I do have free time. 
Thankfully, with the Packers’ success­ful regular season, my team appeared on national television more frequently than most. But even though I was better off than say, Redskins or Jaguars fans, I still found it difficult to watch an entire game on the designated “homework day” of a football weekend. 
Compared to the Pack, even more dif­ficulties have emerged with my Brewers. Except when they play (and beat) the Cubs, the Brew Crew is hardly on television. Thus, I must resign to checking the box score online or watching the mind-numbing MLB Gamecast online. 
For example, on a rare free night, I went online and discovered the Brewers were tied with the Dodgers in the eighth inning. With nothing else to do, I searched frantically for an avenue to watch the conclusion of the close game, but to no avail. South Bend lies just out of reach of the Milwaukee-based radio station, which also restricts online broadcasts for baseball games. I was also unwilling pay the steep $120 price to watch the game — as well as the entire baseball season — on MLB.tv. With the game headed to extra innings, I even stooped so low as to text a friend and ask to Skype in order to watch the game. 
Yet, I failed to uncover a solution and was stuck watching the MLB Gamecast as Nyjer Morgan, who just stole second and third and scored the winning run. It was a close play at the plate off a Ryan Braun sacrifice fly. Moments later, the same friend I texted hop­ing to Skype responded with a celebratory, “Go Brewers!” 
Of course, although I follow my hometown teams less closely, I have developed a great­er pride in Notre Dame sports. Whether it’s football, basketball or hockey, this year has provided some remarkable times to be a Notre Dame fan. This at least helps lessen the difficulties associated with living out of touch with hometown teams. 
In the end, I am looking forward to the rapidly approaching opportunity to kick back on the couch at home and watch the Brewers recover from their early-season struggles. When Ryan Braun hits a walk-off home run, I will finally be the one shouting “Go Brewers!” 
Contact Peter Steiner at      psteiner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Shake down the thunder from smog 
Over the past 30 years, the “Green Revo­lution” has swept the U.S. and many other countries with the impending fear of global warming constantly looming. Activists have made many advances for cleaning up the environment and for enacting Austin Lagomarsino regulations to and Dan Reitz ensure cleaner manufactur-Guest Columnists ing and energy production. Many of these movements have started on college campuses, centers of population for the young and enthusias­tic. Despite their efforts, in the U.S. today, around 61 percent of the power generated comes from fossil fuels. Among these are coal, oil and natural gas. However, the Notre Dame Power Plant follows along those very lines for most of the power that supplies campus. 
The aerospace and mechanical engi­neering programs recently toured the Notre Dame Power Plant, a fairly small facility. The plant has six turbines, two chillers and four reserve diesel engines, all of which are responsible for cooling, heat­ing, lighting and powering the University. The plant generates about half of the 20 megawatts that the students and faculty use on average every day. The other half is bought from the city grid. While many engineers would find this technical infor­mation interesting, the tour also taught the program several things that no one on campus seems to understand about the policies of the energy production at Notre Dame. 
While many decry the use of fossil fuels as harmful to the environment, they do not often understand the implications of trying to use other methods of power. Take South Bend for example. Some may ask, “Why don’t we simply use solar power? It’s clean and useful.” As it turns out, South Bend does not get very much sunshine each year, which would ensure that the costly returns on the solar cells savings would never pay for the units over their lifetime. Further­more, if South Bend were a sunny place year round, it would take nearly 33 football fields covered in solar panels to produce the same amount of power as the Notre Dame Power Plant. And these panels only pro­duce energy during the day. With no easy way to store this energy, those long Friday and Saturday nights would be spent doing homework by candlelight, not black lights. 

You may also think, “South Quad is basically a giant wind tunnel, so what about wind power?” Unfortunately, the wind here does not blow consistently. Wind turbines usually need wind speed to be at a minimum 13 mph. Winds in South Bend only reach 11 mph on average. “How about nuclear power?” It is arguably the best idea, due to its efficiency and how unbeliev­ably “green” it is. With the power you use in your lifetime produced solely from nuclear power, you will generate less than a soda can of nuclear waste, but you will gener­ate a Notre Dame Stadium full of carbon dioxide this year alone from coal. However, with events such as Chernobyl, Three-Mile Island and the recent Fukushima disaster in Japan, no one wants to build a nuclear generator, and no one would even think about putting it close to a center of popu­lation like a city — or a University. New technology, like small modular nuclear reactors, similar to those used on nuclear submarines and naval battleships, may one day be a viable replacement for the power plant, but these are only in the preliminary stages of testing. 
Thus, we’re left with fossil fuels, which are cheap, reliable, easy to use and always in supply. In a small plant where demand fluctuates, when students are in class ver­sus when they are in the dorms, fossil fuels are the perfect way to provide the power they need. And with all the scrubbers, cleaning agents and treatment, the smoke that comes out of the plant isn’t all that dirty. It is important, however, to note that fossil fuels won’t last forever. They are an unrenewable resource and many estimates mark their complete exhaustion around 50 years from now. This is why development of alternative and effective energy sources is so important in society today. 
Now, you might be wondering, “Since there’s not much that can be done on the type of production, what can be done to cut emissions and make Notre Dame a greener place?” The answer is one you already know. The power plant is a demand-based plant, which simply means they produce as much as we use, no more, no less. If you leave your lights on when you go to class, that’s more wattage being used, which is more coal that goes into the boiler. If you unplug that lamp, that’s another hunk of coal that doesn’t get burned, and that’s more carbon dioxide that doesn’t get sent up to the ozone layer. So if you want “to be the change you wish to see in the world,” be sure to take the time to unplug. This way you will save some energy and help out the environment. And be sure to check out the booths at Energy Week next year. 
Austin Lagomarsino is a sophomore and can be reached at alagomar@nd.edu. Dan Reitz is a sophomore and can be reached at dreitz@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

RAs want to make halls good homes 
Recently, these pages have contained much debate about the University’s reluctance and refusal to acknowledge a student club dedicated to advocating for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transexual and questioning  (LGBTQ) community, as well as to insert into the current non-discrimination policy a clause protecting this same community. I am in full support of both of these actions, as are virtu­ally all other students with whom I have discussed the matter. Of course, I’m not ignorant enough to think that this view is universal, and I am willing to respect opposing viewpoints. But that’s not what this is about. To echo Gabriel Nunez’s letter (“Please tell us why,” April 30), I believe that not only is the University obligated to explain their reasoning behind these decisions, but that they really should want to. If we are left alone to ponder their statement that their current policy regarding the LGBTQ community is “adequate,” they should know there is really nothing good that can come from that pondering. They say it’s adequate, and yet they pledge to bol­ster their efforts to abide by it? Doesn’t it seem as though there is some inconsistency there? Besides, why aim for adequate? Why not “exemplary” or “pioneering?” This University prides itself on being exceptional in so many facets — why should this one area be any different? 
Next, I’d like to address Sam Costanzo’s column (“Father Jenkins, this is not about an agenda,” May 1). It is about an agenda and we likely will never really know what that agenda is. But what I’d like to address his statement that members of the LGBTQ community “can barely trust their residence hall staff.” I have tremendous appreciation for the struggles these individuals face on a daily basis, whether it be trying to decide if someone would be a receptive listener or simply dealing with the “silent discrimination” that happens so often. I am also a Resident Assistant. I can safely say that we undergo many hours of training when it comes to these topics. One session was led by Jason G’Sell (“In solidarity,” May 1), and another by members of the University Counseling Center. I try my hardest to foster a welcoming and tolerant environment. This generally includes trying to make my residents mindful of their language and other such tasks. I feel as though we do a pretty good job of making our halls good homes. I do not wish to come across as though I’m thinking, “Well, we’re doing our best, so if some people still aren’t comfortable, then too bad.” That couldn’t be further from my line of thinking. I just want to convey that we are trying to the best of our ability. We really do want to help. Please teach us how. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Men are equal; it is not birth but virtue that makes the difference.” 
Voltaire French author and humanist 


Jeremy Lamb 
senior Knott Hall May 1 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Youth would be an ideal state if it came a little later in life.” 
Herbert Henry Asquith British politician 


Wednesday, May 2, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
Health care as a human right 
In a public letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, Presi­dent John Jenkins wrote against a federal policy that would classify Notre Dame as an employer obligated to provide contraception to its employees. 
Fr. Jenkins argued Richard Klee that Notre Dame deserves an exemp-Guest Columnist tion out of respect for its religious standards, for “this [proposed federal policy] would compel Notre Dame to either pay for contraception and sterilization in violation of the Church’s moral teaching, or to discontinue our employee and student health care plans in violation of the Church’s social teaching. It is an impossible position.” 
This argument claims that as a Catholic university Notre Dame has a religious obli­gation to provide for the health care access of its employees and students. The well-established Catholic social doctrine that health care is “an inalienable human right,” as Pope Benedict XVI recently described it, is protected at Notre Dame via group health insurance and provided at reasonable cost. From Fr. Jenkins’ letter, it would seem that Notre Dame provides for its community in adherence to the ‘Church’s social teaching.’ This appearance is further promoted both by portraying the University as a “healing force” in banners around campus, and by nationally televised commercials identifying Notre Dame with the conviction that “first rate medical care is a fundamental right for every person.” 
But this appearance is false. A group of concerned students and staff recently finished a survey at University Village, the on-campus residence for married students. We found that 28 percent of student spouses reported having no insurance at all. The survey also discovered a quarter of families described one or more of their children as uninsured. These uninsured children also belong to international students, who as non-citizens do not qualify for state-provided coverage. Also worth mention are women who become pregnant while on the state plan; their comprehensive coverage is lost and for one year they have coverage for pregnancy only, without insurance for any other medical cost. 
How is it possible that the University could violate the very principle it projects as distinctive to its public witness of faith? In many meetings with various members of the administration, it is often claimed that pro­vision of affordable insurance coverage to student families would be prohibitively ex­pensive. These budget forecasts are flawed. They assume all student spouses and all student children require subsidies. But as noted above, only a percentage are currently uninsured. The costs of providing affordable health care to those who need it on a means-tested basis would be substantially less than the administration projects. 

Yet, admittedly this remains an expense, one to be made from discretionary funds, because the University has not mobilized donor support for student families. Are other recent discretionary expenses made by the University as necessary as medical care for each person at Notre Dame? Reports from the Chicago Tribune, public policy sites like foundationcenter.org and various commit­tees of the University analyzed recent discre­tionary dollar outlays at Notre Dame and found they cost more annually than health insurance. 
These expenses include doubling and tripling compensation for some Notre Dame administrators since 2003, since some now rank at the very top for their positions on a national level. Other expenses include doz­ens of additional scholarships for non-reve­nue-producing varsity sports, begun in 2001 and graduate student tuition charged to the graduate school rather than to external research grants. Even further, the University sequesters funds for ballooning athletics’ coaches compensation via an separate entity that absorbs revenue from national adver­tisers, rather than directing these monies to the University’s General Fund, while advocating via the NCAA against caps on coaches’ salaries. A bit of restraint in each of these areas would yield funds sufficient for every student child and spouse to access medical insurance affordably. 
Fr. Jenkins is correct to connect Notre Dame’s mission to the Catholic principle that access to health care is a human right. And a proposal to provide student spouses and children entry to the new campus Wellness Center would be a welcome step. Yet, this would only provide student families access to very basic forms of care. By Fr. Jenkins’ standard, the human right of access to health care is supported at the University via affordable health insurance. An inferior sec­ond standard that does not insure children and spouses would continue to expose these families to large health and financial risks. 
The teaching of the Church on health care as a human right is clear. But thus far, the administration has been agnostic to this teaching’s consistent application at Notre Dame. By refusing to accept the relevance of the Church’s social teaching and its own publicly proclaimed principles and postpon­ing less pressing expenditures before neces­sary ones, the Trustees and the administra­tion have isolated many from health care. The answer to the original question of Fr. Jenkins’ letter, a question many Notre Dame families now pose, is unclear: by whose standard is Notre Dame a religious institu­tion? 
Richard Klee is a member of the Class of 2002. He can be reached at rklee2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Faculty for LGTBQ 
Editor’s Note: To view the complete list of 113 signatures, please visit The Observer’s website at ndsmcobserver.com 
We are writing to express our sup­port for the 4-to-5 movement and for the members of the LGBTQ community at the University of Notre Dame. We value the gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and questioning members of our community exactly as we do all those who are part of the Notre Dame family. As faculty and staff, we affirm that our offices and classrooms will be safe and open spaces, where anti-GLBTQ discrimination, ha­rassment or violence will not be tolerated. 
We thank the graduating students and others who have worked so hard to bring LGBTQ concerns to the forefront. Their efforts have made and will continue to make a difference. We also applaud the recent efforts of Notre Dame to create a more welcoming and safe environment for all. We encourage the University to continue its progress by joining with the City of South Bend, our sister college St. Mary’s and other Catholic colleges and institutions across the country to make the protec­tion, recognition, and equal treatment of the GLBTQ members of our family an official part of University policy. We look forward to the day when the Spirit of Inclusion describes not just an aspiration of some, but the everyday experience of all of us who are Notre Dame. 


Richard Williams 
faculty Department of Sociology May 1 
We are a family 
Editor’s Note: To view the complete list of 1,509 signatures, please visit The Observer’s website at ndsmcobserver.com 
Last night, I was disappointed and ashamed of my University and of my classmates. I, along with forty of my peers, learned that we have a classmate choosing to transfer away from Notre Dame because of their sexual orienta­tion. Not because of what the adminis­tration does or doesn’t do, but because of their classmates. They feel that their friends and peers don’t support them. The fact that a single person feels that way is a serious problem, and one we need to rectify. We have not been vocal enough.
 So, I began circulating a letter, not in protest of anything, but in support of each other. The letter received an overwhelming response and I am so proud of my peers. More than 1,200 signatures were gathered in less than 12 hours. I am sure that, given more time, there would be hundreds more. There were so many, in fact, that The Observer was unable to print them today due to lack of space. What an amazing testament to our communi­ty! I encourage everyone to go online to see them. I have been inspired and amazed by the compassion of my classmates. 
Whether or not we agree with the idea of adding a non-discrimination clause or an official GSA, there is one thing we seem to agree on. We are a family. This is not about religious or political beliefs. This is about being a decent human being. It is about doing the right thing. Our students are will­ing to stand up and sign their names so that everyone they encounter here knows that they are not alone. 


Heather Eaton 
sophomore Cavanaugh Hall May 1 

We are all responsible 
Dear Members of the Notre Dame Commu­nity: 
On Feb. 24, Fr. Thomas Doyle, Dr. Don Pope-Davis and Notre Dame senior Brittany Suggs wrote to inform you about two deplorable and intolerable incidents in which fried chicken parts were left in the mailboxes of the Black Students Association and the African Students Associa­tion. I am writing to update you since that letter. 
Since these incidents were reported and investigated, numerous activities — reflecting a collaborative interest in addressing the pres­ence of discriminatory harassment, bigotry and cultural insensitivity — have occurred involving students, faculty and staff. Student leaders of both affected organizations, along with Student Government, hosted a Call to Action town hall meeting. In the weeks that followed, there have been classroom discussions, meetings among minority and majority student-run organiza­tions, meetings of students with Student Affairs staff and other campus leaders, a prayer service for unity and the formation of various coalitions. 
These gatherings yielded open and honest discussions about experiences had by people of color in our campus community. The stories that were told were revealing and sobering — sometimes painful for the speaker to re-tell 
— but they were also informative. We gained important feedback that various members of the University administration and students have already used, and will continue to use in exam­ining, informing and modifying our policies and practices. One of the coalitions formed, the Plan of Action committee — which includes student leaders as well as faculty and staff volunteers — has been actively engaged in this process. Other groups and departments have also shared inter­est in positively impacting our campus climate and are working toward that end. 
Looking to the future, we are committed to collaborating in building on these efforts to eliminate the occurrence of discriminatory harassment and prejudice and to improve the Notre Dame experience for all members of our community. In my newly created position as Chief Diversity Officer and Advisor to the Presi­dent, Fr. Jenkins has asked me to help coordi­nate the University’s work with students, faculty and staff to move Notre Dame toward a more in­clusive campus climate. Together with the Office of the President, the Office of Student Affairs, the Office of the Provost and other campus units, we will work with students to develop constructive strategies that address the problems revealed by these incidents. 
We — as departments and individuals, in classrooms and residence halls, across the range of our racial and ethnic backgrounds 
— are all responsible for creating an inclusive campus. Specific initiatives have been and will continue to be considered in coming months. We will communicate them to the Notre Dame com­munity as they are developed in detail. 
At Notre Dame, an issue like this is important and relevant not only to members of our Black community and to others of color. It affects us all. Indeed, we are all responsible for actively preventing future occurrences and creating a campus where diverse backgrounds and perspectives are embraced, nurtured and cel­ebrated. These incidents provide an opportunity for each of us to reflect on how we can be more thoughtful and loving in what we say and do, contributing to the formation of a more accept­ing university community. In essence, this is at the heart of our Catholic Mission. 
In more direct terms, if you are the victim of discriminatory harassment on our campus, please report it through the appropriate chan­nels (http://www.nd.edu/~equity/discrimina­tory_harassment/DiscriminatoryHarassment­Procedures.shtml) and if needed, seek support. If you are an employee of the University who receives or otherwise handles reports of harass­ment, you should demonstrate compassion and empathy as you work to expeditiously handle the report. If you receive or witness an intoler­ant remark or act, consider finding a way — as difficult and unexpected as it may be — to tell the person that the behavior is inappropriate. Do so only if you feel safe. And if you are someone who is intolerant or insensitive in your conduct, consider how hurtful you are to us all. Acts of harassment, in whatever form, are completely unacceptable and will not be tolerated. 
Our faith calls us to stand together in opposi­tion to the hatred of racism wherever it may exist, be it on our campus or in society at large. We must live lives dedicated to the celebration of our differences, teaching these qualities to oth­ers through our actions. By being both examples and ministers of love and inclusion, we can ef­fectively combat the types of bias and insensitiv­ity recently made apparent on our campus. 
Sincerely, 


Dr. Frances L. Shavers 
Chief Diversity Officer staff April 30 


page 12 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, May 2, 2012 Wednesday, May 2, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 13 





For my farewell Best Worst column, I had to go back to the very beginning of my obsessive love for fantastically terrible movies — Mary Kate and Ashley Olsen’s straight-to-video guides for a lifetime of disappointment. 
I’ve been to Lon­don, Paris, Rome and the Bahamas, just like in their movies. While they were amaz­ing trips, they did not live up to the MK&A promise. There’s always this nagging feeling, even if you’re in the middle of an amazing trip, that somehow the Olsen twins would be doing it better. 
My friends and I were not chased through foreign cities by an adorable group of guys, one for each of us of course, with accents and mopeds. We did not un­earth a large Bohemian antiquities smug­gling ring or produce a multi-million dollar fashion line while bringing down a Roman fashion thief (I’m beginning to question if those even exist). We didn’t solve issues of national diplomacy while preaching the gospel of a McDonald’s hamburger. 
No worries Olsen fans, I won’t be rag­ging on “Winning London” because as we all know, that is a legitimately awesome movie. I’m still waiting to fall in love with a young Lord while in a competition with my Model UN team. 
I embarked on this journey back through the Olsen repertoire after my friend ran into Tom Amandes, aka Billboard Dad, at a bar in Chicago. She was the coolest girl at the lunch table with that story for at least a week. I mean, the man knew the Olsens in the 90s for goodness’ sake. “Billboard Dad,” the first of their movies (not count­ing the “Adventures” or “Sleepover” series) immediately went to the top of the Netf­lix queue. Good news: it totally holds up, but not the way your seven-year-old self remembers. 
First off, when you’re that age it seems totally plausible that you could sneak out in the middle of the night and somehow paint a legitimate looking billboard over Sunset Boulevard — without the police and child services being called. You begin to wonder why your parents don’t let you surf and rollerblade alone through Venice Beach. 
This is only the beginning of the unset­tling feeling that your life is unfair. 
For those poor souls who haven’t seen “Billboard Dad,” the premise is this: two twin girls, Tess and Taylor, are living in Venice Beach, Calif., with their widowed, famous artist father. In between sad scenes where Dad suddenly trails sadly off while talking about the girls’ mother, they can be seen wandering around Venice, specifically the local pool where they are a part of the local diving team. 

A mysterious bad boy comes onto the scene, recognizable by his cutoff jean shorts and peroxide hair — and he totally splashes them with a cannonball. Not cool. Oh yeah, and he skateboards on the pool deck which is totally against the rules. 
The girls decide that a year is long enough for their father to mourn their mother, and put up the billboard which reads:
 “He’s single, he’s handsome. He’s cool to the Max! Interested? Write to Max Tyler at 10 Surf, St. Venice.” 
So, putting their home address down doesn’t have any scary side effects, except for several bad dates. After these, Max de­cides he is finished indulging his daughters 
— not after they climbed scaled a billboard on Sunset above the Chateau Marmont. Fate, however, sends him on one last date. 
Max begins dating Brooke, a single mother who owns a glasses shop. Her dream is to put an end to the idea that, “boys don’t make passes at girls who wear glasses.” After they fall in love, Tess and Taylor find out that her son is the bad boy from the pool! It’s all good, though, be­cause the kids are soon working together to bring down Nigel, Max’s evil British manager who is trying to break him and Brooke up. Also, he’s selling knock offs of Max’s art. After that’s done, the only thing left to do is land the high dive at the local diving competition. So ends the straight-to­video adventure that started it all. 
The moral of this Olsen tirade is that best worst movies can change your life. If it hadn’t been for the unrealistic ex­pectations those movies instilled in me, I wouldn’t be retracing their global foot­steps. I wouldn’t be planning on Mexico, the winter Olympics and Australia for the future and hoping that one or all of those trips will be while I’m in the witness pro­tection program or competing on a reality show. 
True to form in my Olsen tour of the world, I will still fully expect everything they promised me out of life. 
Fingers crossed, in this future my name will be something like Charlie or Riley. I will accomplish the Briana Wallace/Megan Fox “Holiday in the Sun” walk through a bar: “What’s up?” some poor dude in a Hawaiian t-shirt and frosted tips will say to me. “Um, not my temperature,” I will haughtily reply through overly glossed lips. 
That’s the stuff all best worst dreams are made of. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at                  cecker01@saintmarys.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 
In the interest of full disclosure, I must attach a caveat to this review 
— I am blessed with both the matu­rity and sense of humor of an eight-year old. 
With that out of the way, Aard­man Animation’s latest adventure, “Pirates: Band of Misfits,” rides the high seas of childish entertainment for a rollickingly fun experience. 
“Pirates” follows the pirate cap­tain known simply as Pirate Captain and his crew of similarly-obviously­named buccaneers on their quest for treasure and fame. Pirate Cap­tain, expertly voiced by Hugh Grant, is determined to win the notorious “Pirate of the Year” award, and thus prove his worth. 
His competition for the award (in­cluding the voices of Jeremy Piven and Selma Hayek) makes it clear that the Pirate Captain, despite the way in which in he presents himself, is in fact not much of a pirate, and goads him incessantly. 
The plot is a little ridiculous, but humorously so. The crew’s ensuing misadventures lead them to raid a plague boat, a ghost ship and, final­ly, Charles Darwin’s boat. Darwin informs the Captain that his beloved “parrot” is in fact a dodo, a bird that had been believed extinct for two hundred years. Darwin is also on a quest for an award, the “Sci­entist of the Year,” and believes this bird could do it for him, leading to a struggle for the bird that encapsu­lates the rest of the movie. 
The film comes from Aardman Animation, a studio known for a unique “claymation” style of produc­tion, as well as fantastic storytelling and humor that often transcends generations. The studio is most fa­mous for “Wallace and Gromit,” as the founders of the studio, Peter Lord (who directed “Pirates”) and David Sproxton, created the beloved characters. 
The studio is also responsible for the recent “Arthur Christmas,” “Flushed Away” and one of the greatest animated films of the pre­vious decade, “Chicken Run.” 
The previous success that Aard­man has enjoyed creates a very standard for its films, but not every movie they make can be “Chicken Run.” 
In this case, “Pirates: Band of Mis­fits” doesn’t quite measure up to the bar set by Aardman’s past. The film is clever, but not memorably so. The moments of age-transcendent wit are a little too few, and far between. The message behind the story — al­ways remember that friends and family are what’s important in life 
— isn’t quite as poignant as their previous work. 
But, as Voltaire once said, the per­fect is the enemy of the good. The film is still entertaining throughout, and the celebrity voice acting is bril­liant. Hugh Grant sells the Pirate Captain and all of his arrogant buf­foonery perfectly. 
And the film’s visuals may be un­matched by any of Aardman’s pre­vious films. The studio is known for its stop-motion claymation, but in its previous film, “Arthur Christmas,” the studio used exclusively comput­er-animation for the first time. 
In “Pirates,” Aardman used a hy­brid of stop-motion and computer animation that makes for a beauti­fully illustrated world for the pirates to sail and plunder, without losing the trademark clay look that makes the characters feel so unique and enjoyable. 
“Pirates” might not be perfect, but it makes for fun, lighthearted enter­tainment, not to mention a spectac­ularly-illustrated film. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, May 2, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
The past year in sports: from Luck to Paterno 
Hopefully you’ve enjoyed the first year of The Observer’s ‘Sports Authority’ content, with a daily column taking you out of the Notre Dame athletics bubble and delv­ing into the wide world of sports. 
With this being the final Ob­server issue of the year and, thus, the final Sports Authority, I’ve made a list of what I see as the top five sports stories of the past school year. 
5. 2011 World Series 
For the second straight year the Rangers won the American League crown and advanced to the Fall Classic. After losing in six games in 2010 to the Giants and their mega-rotation, Texas was the favorite in 2011. Its opponent, the Cardinals, were 10.5 games out of a playoff spot August 26 be­fore surging to a playoff berth and marching through the National League playoffs. 
Not once, but twice in Game 6, the Rangers were a strike away from winning the franchise’s first World Series. Not once, but twice the Cardinals rallied from a two-run deficit, capped off by October legend David Freese’s walkoff home run which gave Fox broad­caster Joe Buck the opportunity to give his late father’s trademark call, “We will see you tomorrow night!” 
The Cardinals saw the Rangers the next night, and they cruised to a Game 7 victory. 
4. Linsanity 
During the darkest days of the American sports calendar, a new name jumped to the forefront of fans’ consciousness: Jeremy Lin. 
Lin quickly became the Knicks’ star and briefly provided hope for an otherwise bleak franchise. An injury ended Lin’s season prema­turely, but for a while there he sure was Lin-tertaining. (Okay, that one was a bit of a reach.) 
The emergence of the scrub-turned-star also led to controver­sial headlines, tweets, ice cream flavors and statements regarding Lin’s race and became a learning experience for everyone. 
3. Colts feel Lucky, drop Manning 
Whether or not you fall into the Tom Brady camp or Peyton Manning camp in the best-quar­terback-of-the-decade debate, you have to acknowledge that Manning is a one-of-a-kind tal­ent and is headed to the Hall of Fame, which is why it’s such a big deal he is no longer an India­napolis Colt. 

After neck issues kept him out of the lineup for the entire 2011 season, Indianapolis decided not to pick up his $28 million option and rebuild the team, centered around the selection of former Stanford quarterback Andrew Luck with the top overall pick. 
After Manning’s cross-country recruitment, he settled on the Denver Broncos as the desti­nation to continue his career. Seeing Manning in any uniform other than the Colts’ will cer­tainly be strange. 
2. Tebowing to the Big Apple 
With the Broncos’ addition of Manning, the controversial Tim Tebow was suddenly available. He was essentially traded to the New York Jets for a fourth-round pick, which tells you how much he is valued as a bargaining chip. 
The Jets’ off-season solution to fixing an awful quarter­back situation was simple: Add another bad quarterback. After all, why have one when you can have two? 
All of this happened after he was named the starting quarter­back in Denver, rode the Broncos defense’s coattails to the playoffs and polarized fans along the way. 
1. Paterno’s fall from grace 
The top sports story of the year was a simple one, and that’s because of its enormity not only as a sports story, but as a news story as well. 
Joe Paterno was Penn State, but all of that changed when it was revealed in November he didn’t do enough to stop former defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky’s alleged pedophilic tendencies. 
In a two-and-a-half month span, Paterno was fired over the phone, announced he had lung cancer and died. We won’t truly know what Paterno’s legacy will be for years, but it is still hard to believe the man who was seen as a symbol of everything that’s good about college athletics could be taken down by the big­gest scandal college athletics has ever seen. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Ob­server. 
MLB 

Dodgers sale becomes final 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — The $2 bil­lion sale of the Los Angeles Dodgers was finalized Tuesday, ending the tumultuous era un­der former owner Frank Mc-Court, who took the team into bankruptcy and had his private life made public through a nasty divorce battle with his ex-wife. 
The closure of the deal was announced in a terse statement. The Dodgers were sold to Gug­genheim Baseball Management, a group that includes former Los Angeles Lakers star Magic John­son. 
Mark Walter, chief executive officer of the financial services firm Guggenheim Partners, will become the controlling owner, and the team will be run by for­mer Atlanta Braves President Stan Kasten. They will hold a news conference Wednesday at Dodger Stadium. 
McCourt met with Dodgers employees Tuesday, expressing his appreciation and introduced Walter, said Howard Sunkin, a spokesman for McCourt. 
“The Dodgers move forward with confidence in a strong fi­nancial position as a premier Major League Baseball franchise and as an integral part of and representative of the Los Ange­les community,” according to a joint statement by McCourt and the new owners. 
The timing couldn’t have come at a better time for Dodgers fans, who are excited about having their team leading the National League. The team had a 16-7 re­cord going into Tuesday night’s game in Colorado. 
“I think the fans of LA are pretty excited about the new ownership and what it’s bringing. As long as 
L.A. is happy, I’m happy,” slugger Matt Kemp said. “As long as we’re winning, I’m happy.” 
The Dodgers have won six World Series titles but none since 1988, when they were still owned by the O’Malley family that moved the team from Brooklyn to Califor­nia after the 1957 season. 
The sale was part of a reorgani­zation plan after McCourt took the team into bankruptcy last June. A federal judge approved the deal last month. 
The sale was supposed to close Monday, the day McCourt was to make a $131 million payment to former wife Jamie McCourt as part of their divorce settlement. The team’s statement said all claims will be paid. Jamie McCourt did receive her payout on Monday. 
McCourt paid $430 million in 2004 to buy the team, Dodger Sta­dium and 250 acres of land that include the parking lots from the Fox division of Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. Fox bought the team in 1998, then sold it to McCourt. 
Despite the Dodgers making the playoffs the first four out of six sea­sons under McCourt’s ownership, the off-the-field saga took atten­tion away from the team as he and his ex-wife were in a protracted divorce battle during which their lavish spending habits were re­vealed in court documents and testimony. 
Last April, MLB appointed for­mer Texas Rangers President Tom Schieffer to monitor the Dodgers on behalf of baseball Commission­er Bud Selig, who said he was con­cerned about the team’s finances and how the Dodgers were being run. 
The team filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection after Selig rejected a proposed broadcast rights deal with Fox Sports that McCourt said would have alleviat­ed worries about covering payroll. 
The team’s debt stood at $579 million as of January, according to a court filing, but McCourt stands to make hundreds of millions of dollars. 
Selig said he’s pleased the sale is finished and the Dodgers can have a fresh start after the “unbecom­ing events of recent years.” 
“It is my great hope and firm expectation that today’s change in ownership marks the start of a new era for the Los Angeles Dodg­ers and that this historic franchise will once again make the city of Los Angeles proud,” Selig said in a statement. 
The sale price set a record; Ste­phen Ross forked out $1.1 billion for the NFL’s Miami Dolphins in 2009, and Malcolm Glazer and his family took over England’s Man­chester United soccer club seven years ago in a deal then valued at $1.47 billion. 
The previous record for a base­ball franchise was the $845 mil­lion paid by the Ricketts family for the Chicago Cubs in 2009. 
NL Cy Young winner Clayton Kershaw said the ownership is­sues didn’t weigh on the team last year because it was out of the play­ers’ control. He said the squad has had an opportunity to meet the new owners and he’s excited about the future. 
“It’s the end but it’s also the be­ginning,” Kershaw said. “It’s a cool time.” 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
PERSONAL  An Excerpt from: Summertime  summer madness  A place called the plateau is where everybody goes  And with a pen and pad I compose this rhyme  When the shark bites with his teeth dear  
by DJ Jazzy Fresh and the Fresh  The weather is hot and girls are  Scarlet billows start to spread  
Prince  dressing less  Guys out hunting and girls doing  To hit you and get you equipped  Fancy gloves though wears Mac- 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  likewise  for the summer time  heath dear  
School is out and it’s a sort of a  and checking out the fellas to tell  So there’s not a trace of red  
Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame  buzz  ‘em who’s best  Honking at the honey in front of  Mack the Knife  On the sidewalk Sunday morning  
has many resources in place to  you with the light eyes  by Bobby Darin  Lies a body oozing life  
assist you. If you or someone you  A back then I didn’t really know  Riding around in your jeep or your  Someone’s sneaking ‘round the  
love needs confidential support  what it was  benzos  She turn around to see what you  Oh the shark has pretty teeth dear  corner  
or assistance, please call Sr.  beeping at  And he shows them pearly white  Is the someone Mack the Knife  
Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more  But now I see what have of this  or in your Nissan stting on  Just a jack-knife has Mac-heath  
information, visit ND’s website at:  lorenzos  It’s like the summers a natural  dear  And on that note:  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  The way that people respond to  back in Philly we be ou in the park  afradesiac  And he keeps it out of sight  Have a great summer!  

Wednesday, May 2, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
NBA 

Stoudemire undergoes surgery, will miss Game 3 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Amare Stou­demire’s difficult season may be over. 
Stoudemire had a small mus­cle in his left hand repaired Tuesday and will not play for the New York Knicks in Game 3 of their first-round playoff se­ries against the Miami Heat on Thursday. 
Stoudemire met with a hand specialist at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York, a day after he was badly cut when he punched the case surround­ing a fire extinguisher after the Knicks’ 104-94 loss in Miami. 
The Knicks are listing Stou­demire as doubtful for Game 4 on Sunday. 
Stoudemire apologized on his Twitter account for the act, which leaves the Knicks without another key player as they try to rally from a 2-0 deficit. Jeremy Lin is still recovering from knee surgery and Iman Shumpert is out for the season after tearing a knee ligament in Game 1. 
“We all have done thing out of anger that we regret,” Stou­demire wrote. “That makes us human. Bad timing on my part. Sorry guys. This (too) shall pass.” 
Stoudemire scored 18 points in Game 2, though he didn’t get into a good flow until the fourth quarter, when the Knicks could never seriously challenge the Heat. But any hope of carrying the momentum from his posi­tive finish into Thursday’s game at Madison Square Garden was lost during his walk back to the locker room. 
“It’s tough. Your emotions run high. Split-second decisions can obviously alter things,” center Tyson Chandler said after the game. “You can’t fault anybody because I’m obviously a person that has high emotions at times. So one quick decision, make a mistake and now you’ve got to deal with the repercussions.” 
Perhaps it was all the frustra­tion built up during a tough sea­son on and off the court. 
Stoudemire missed time in February after his older brother died in a car accident. He then sat out 13 games late in the season with a bulging disk in his back, and when he did play had his worst statistical season since he was a rookie in 2002­03. 

NBA 
Spurs’ Popovich wins NBA Coach of the Year 

Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO — Gregg Popo­vich can’t win like the old days. No longer can the San Antonio Spurs simply feed Tim Duncan the ball, let their defense do the rest and ride that game plan to NBA championships. 
But the new way Popovich has them winning isn’t bad, either. 
That acknowledgment came Tuesday when Popovich was honored as the NBA’s Coach of the Year after leading San An­tonio to 50 wins and the No. 1 seed in the Western Conference. The Spurs defied naysayers who have written them off as too old since their last title in 2007 and did so in a lockout-shortened season that tested every coach when it came to managing min­utes and finding practice time. 
“If you can draft David Rob­inson and follow that up with Tim Duncan, that’s a couple of decades of very, very possible success unless you just screw it up,” Popovich said. “So it’s hard to take credit when circum­stances have gone your way so consistently.” 
Popovich also won the award in 2003 when San Antonio won its second of four champion­ships, and he might be headed for a fifth ring if the Spurs keep this up. They’re doing it partly thanks to a supporting cast of rookies and former NBA no-names that Popovich has turned into a surprise frontrunner. 
He whipped them into win­ners quickly. After a bumpy 12-9 start, the Spurs lost just seven more games the rest of the season. 
“Pop has done a terrific job molding a mix of experience and inexperience,” Spurs gen­eral manager R.C. Buford said. 
Popovich received 77 first-place votes. Chicago coach Tom Thibodeau was second (27), In­diana coach Frank Vogel was third (7) and Memphis coach Lionel Hollins was fourth (6). Boston’s Doc Rivers and Den­ver’s George Karl each received a vote. 
Thibodeau, last year’s recipi­ent, said a case could be made for Popovich to win every sea­son. 
“I’m happy for him. They’ve had a great season,” Thibodeau said. “The way he runs an orga­nization, you can’t say enough about him. The thing I really admire about him is I had an opportunity to meet him 20 years ago, and he’s the same guy today that he was then. All the success, the championships, he has not changed one bit.” 
The Spurs practiced Tuesday before the NBA made the after­noon announcement. All-Star Tony Parker, who might be hav­ing the most complete season of his career, later tweeted con­gratulations to the only NBA coach he’s ever known. 
Not that Popovich, one of the NBA’s most famously mercu­rial and colorful coaches for 16 seasons, is likely to be found on social media. 
“Well deserved!!!” Parker wrote. 
The season loomed as one of Popovich’s toughest projects yet. Besides Duncan, 36, and Manu Ginobili, 34, growing another year older, the Spurs started the year with much of the same roster that fell in the first round to the up-and-coming Grizzlies last spring. 


Wednesday, May 2, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
MLB 

Pettitte takes the stand in Clemens’ HGH retrial 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Andy Pet­titte and Roger Clemens sat some 20 feet apart, Pettitte on the witness stand and Clemens at the defense table trying to avoid going to jail. The topic: a remark about hu­man growth hormone Pettitte recalled hearing from his longtime teammate, mentor and workout partner a dozen years ago. 
“Roger had mentioned to me that he had taken HGH,” Pettitte testified. “And that it could help with recovery, and that’s really all I remember about the conversation.” 
The rest of the details are fuzzy. Pettitte went on ac­knowledge that the words were said in passing during an intense workout. 
It’s a conversation that Cle­mens has famously claimed that Pettitte “misremem­bers.” 
The right-hander on trial who won 354 major league games and the lefty on the stand with 240 wins had an awkward reunion Tuesday, Day 8 in the retrial of charg­es that Clemens lied when he told Congress in 2008 that he never used steroids or HGH. 
Pettitte’s appearance en­livened the proceedings and came without warning. The government interrupted tes­timony from the trial’s first witness to call Pettitte just before noon. Wearing a gray suit, he walked into court a day after allowing six runs and 10 hits with eight strike­outs over 5 2-3 innings in an extended spring training game in Clearwater, Fla., as part his comeback attempt at age 39 with the New York Yankees. 
Pettitte testified most­ly with his hands clasped in front of him and rarely looked at Clemens, even dur­ing the lengthy delays when lawyers held conferences at the judge’s bench. Clemens frequently took notes. The two haven’t spoken recently because of the trial, but Pet­titte nevertheless said he found it difficult to testify because he still considers Clemens a good friend. 
Pettitte is crucial to a gov­ernment case that will other­wise rely heavily on the testi­mony of Brian McNamee, who worked as a strength coach for both Clemens and Pet­titte and has said he injected both men with performance-enhancing substances. The government showed the jury photos of the three working out together in Texas during happier times — “Mac, Roger and me,” as Pettitte put it. 
Pettitte has acknowledged he received HGH from McNa­mee; Clemens has not. Pet­titte told the jury about the time he used HGH in 2002 while recovering from an in­jury, but he wasn’t allowed to say he was injected by McNa­mee because the judge ruled that information inadmis­sible. 
Pettitte said he used HGH one other time, in 2004. He said regretted it both times he tried it, that he doesn’t think it helped him physical­ly and that it has tarnished his name. 
“I wish I never would’ve” taken HGH, he said. “If I hadn’t done it, I wouldn’t be here today.” 


Asked to recall the con­versation in which Clemens supposedly admitted to using HGH, Pettitte remembered it taking place during a work­out at Clemens’ house in Texas during the 1999-2000 offseason. Maybe inside the gym. Maybe outside. 
Then, under cross-exami­nation from one of Clemens’ lawyers, Pettitte revealed how tenuous his account might seem to the jury. At­torney Michael Attanassio asked if it came amid a “lot of huffing and puffing” that accompanies a workout. 
“Yes,” Pettitte answered. 
Pettitte was then asked if Clemens’ remark was made “in passing” — as opposed to in a “focused conversation.” 
“I would say so,” Pettitte said. 
Pettitte will return to the stand on Wednesday. 
Pettitte also recalled the other time he spoke with Cle­mens about HGH, during the media swirl surrounding ear­lier congressional hearings 
— in 2005 — on drug use in sports. Both were playing for the Houston Astros, and Pet­titte asked Clemens at spring train-to make statements such as: “The Boston Red Sox play in Boston.” 
Pettitte mentioned Clemens 
— along with pitchers Nolan Ryan and Jim Abbott — as players he admired while growing up Texas. Ten years apart in age, Pettitte said he “hit it off immediately” when he and Clemens first became teammates with the Yankees in 1999. 
They remained teammates for nine seasons, five with the Yankees, then three with the Astros, then one more back in New York before Cle­mens retired after the 2007 season. 
The trial was moving at a 
laborious pace before Pettitte appea red . Clemens’ lawyer, 
ing what Cle­mens would say if asked by reporters  “Roger had mentioned to me that he had taken HGH. And that it could  Rusty Har­din, spent the morn­ing trying to  
about HGH use. C l emen s r e s p o n d e d : “What are  help with recovery, and that’s really all I remember about the conversation.”  challenge the merits of the 2008 hear­ing, specifi­cally honing  
you talking about?” ac­cording to  Andy Pettitte Yankees pitcher  in on wheth­er the ques­tions asked  
Pettitte,  and  of  Clemens  
that  Pettitte  had anything  
must  have  to  do  with  
m i s u n de r ­ C o n g r e s s ’  

stood the 1999-2000 conver-stated mission of passing sation. laws. 
“He said, ‘My wife used it,’” But Hardin was walking Pettitte said. a fine line. A substantial 
“Obviously I was a little challenge to the validity of flustered,” Pettitte said, “be-the hearings could open the cause I thought that he told door to allow the government me that he did.” to introduce more evidence 
Both Clemens and McNa-about the widespread use of mee have said that McNamee steroids and HGH in baseball injected Debbie Clemens with — something Clemens doesn’t HGH at the Clemens’ home in want the jury to hear for fear 2003, although they differ of guilty by association. over certain details. The trial’s first witness, 
Clemens has said publicly Phil Barnett, was majority multiple times, including be-staff director for the House fore Congress at a February Oversight and Government 2008 hearing, that Pettitte Reform Committee when that “misremembers” the 1999-panel held the 2008 hearing. 2000 conversation. He said the hearing helped 
Before he could begin testi-determine the accuracy of fying about Clemens, Pettitte the 2007 Mitchell Report had to answer very rudimen-on performance-enhancing tary questions meant to edu-drug use in baseball, but he cate a jury that knows little added that no legislation was about baseball, leading him passed as a result. 


page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, May 2, 2012 
ENGLISH PREMIER LEAGUE 

Fulham shuts out Liverpool in lead-in to Saturday’s FA Cup 


Everton drew 1-1 with Stoke Aston Villa, West Bromwich in the night’s other match, Albion and Fulham - teams it putting David Moyes’ team would typically expect to beat. three points Everton was above Liv-denied victory erpool with at Britannia 
two rounds “The attitude and desire Stadium when remaining. striker Cam-
just wasn’t there ... It 
Martin eron Jerome 
wasn’t a good night 
Skrtel’s own scored in the 
for us, me included.” 
goal in the 69th minute fifth min-for Stoke, can­ute means Kenny Dalglish celing out Pe-Liverpool Liverpool manager ter Crouch’s has won own goal a only five of minute before 18 league halftime — the matches at 1,000th goal in Anfield, a ground once seen the Premier League this sea-as a fortress in the 18-time son. champions’ heyday. 
With Saturday’s final against Chelsea at Wembley Stadium in mind,Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish made nine changes to the team that beat Norwich 3-0 on Saturday and it showed as Fulham came away with a first topflight win at Anfield. 
“The attitude and desire wasn’t there,” Dalglish said. “It wasn’t a good night for us, me included.” 
A powerfully driven cross by John Arne Riise, a former Liv­erpool player, hit the stand-Associated Press to a 1-0 home loss to Fulham ing leg of Skrtel and squirmed on Tuesday, improving Ever-past goalkeeper Alexander 
LONDON — Liverpool’s ton’s chances of finishing Doni. 
hopes of taking a morale-above its Merseyside rival in Liverpool has now picked up 
boosting victory into the FA the Premier League for the just one point from its past four 
Cup final were dashed thanks first time since 2005. home games, against Wigan, 
Everton had scored four goals in each of its previous three league games but was kept at bay by Stoke after Crouch had scored in his own net after an attempted clear­ance from Marc Wilson struck the lanky striker’s back. 
Jerome leveled when he made a forward burst and held off two defenders before firing past goalkeeper Tim Howard. 
Everton has games re­maining at already-relegated Wolverhampton Wander­ers and against Newcastle at home, while Liverpool hosts Chelsea before traveling to Swansea on the final day of the season. 




page 20 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, May 2, 2012 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Irish head to Ohio for regionals 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will make their fifth straight appearance in the NCAA regional golf tour­nament when they travel to Columbus, Ohio, on May 10 to take on the 24-team field. 
“Playing in the regional has been one of our goals set out for us to achieve at the begin­ning of the year,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “We’ve been working toward it all season and were very excited to have a chance to play.” 
The regional will be the first time the Irish take the course coming off a disappointing Big East tournament in which the Irish lost by only one stroke. But the team is excited to get back out on the field, Holt said. 
“The team is very excited to play on one of the best cours­es in the country,” Holt said. “[Senior captain] Becca Huffer played in the regional here her freshman year and she’s also very excited to get back. It was a big team goal of ours to make this trip and the players are very excited to have this op­portunity.” 
Unfortunately for the Irish, the regional falls directly dur­ing finals week, leaving the 
team with a jumbled prac­tice schedule leading up to the tournament. 
“Everyone has parts of their games they need to work on this week. It’s kind of tough for our players with finals loom­ing, we’re going to have some short practices,” Holt said. “The players will have to do a lot on their own this week with our shortened practice sched­ule.” 
Though cut short on prac­tice time, the Irish still hope to compete next week, and ul­timately advance to the NCAA tournament. The team hopes it can match its record feat last like we match up well. We’ve beaten some already and I think the course will set up well for us. It’s a very chal­lenging course, and you have to hit quality shots, which our players can do.” 
Holt said the Irish need to come out focused and ready to play if they want to ad­vance. 
“It takes four scores for us every round to produce our 
year, when the Irish ad­vanced to the NCAA tour­nament finals for the first time in pro­gram history. 
“Our goals every year are to win the Big East, qualify for regionals, 
and  advance  
to  finals,”  
Holt  said.  

“We didn’t get [the] Big East title, but we accomplished our second 
“I like our draw of teams we have to compete against ... Certainly there are good teams in the field, but I feel like we match up well.” 
Susan Holt Irish coach 
team total, we need all five play­ers to con­tribute each day,” Holt said. “Our girls need to tighten things up in this next week. We got a little sloppy at the Big East tournament and it cost us. Every shot counts. in these tourna­
goal and now we will shoot for the finals.” 
Holt thinks the odds stack up well for the Irish, having seen many of the 24-team field ear­lier in the season. 
“I like our draw of teams we have to compete against,” Holt said. “Certainly there are good teams in the field, but I feel ments, we just need to stay patient, stay focused and stay confident. If we can do that we can advance.” 
The Irish tee off the NCAA regional tournament May 10 in Columbus, Ohio. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
MLB 
Rays place Longoria on 15-day disabled list 

Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Evan Longoria took a right turn out of the Tampa Bay clubhouse and walked a few feet before stepping in front of a group of re­porters huddled around a lineup board that will not list his name for the next four to eight weeks. 
The three-time All-Star was placed on the 15-day disabled list with a partially torn left hamstring Tuesday. Replacing his bat and glove won’t be easy. 
Yet the Rays are confident they’ll be OK without their best player, who’s hitting .329 with four homers and 19 RBIs. 
“I’ve been in similar situations before and it’s just one of those things where I’ll stay positive,” the third baseman said. “It’s go­ing to be tough to watch, but I can’t really worry about it right now. I’ve just got to worry about getting healthy.” 
The Rays received the test results before Tuesday night’s game against the Seattle Mari­ners. Longoria was injured Mon­day while running to second base on an attempted steal. He slid into the bag and remained on the ground for a moment before climbing to his feet and walking to the dugout without assistance. 


Wednesday, May 2, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 21 
Success 
continued from page 24 
gram record April 24 when she hit her 10th home run of the sea­son, becoming the first player in Notre Dame history to notch 
NCAA 
continued from page 24 
tremewill not appeal the NCAA’s decision and will hire an agent in an attempt to play professionally. The Connecticut native entered the season with big expectations, double-digit home runs in all four years as a college athlete. 
Sophomore pitcher Laura Win­ter has also made a name for her­self, pitching the first no-hitter at Melissa Cook Stadium on April 
21. Winter is the most recent Big 
East Pitcher of the Week. After the matchup against 
selected as Notre Dame’s only rep­resentative to the all-Big East pre­season first team. 
Over his abbreviated five-year career, the Irish co-captain aver­aged 13.7 points per game, includ­ing a career-high 16.1 points per game in the 2009-2010 season. With 1,137 career points, Abro­maitis sits in 38th on the all-time Eastern Michigan, Notre Dame will wrap up their con­ference schedule in Pittsburgh with three matchups against the Panthers (25-22, 8-11). 
The Irish have already qual­ified for the Big East champi­onship, which will begin on May 10 at Notre Dame. 
scoring list in Notre Dame history. 
Meanwhile, fifth-year senior forward Scott Martin will soon hear about his petition for a sixth year of eligibility. Martin sat out the 2008-2009 season due to NCAA rules following his trans­fer from Purdue as well as the 2009-2010 season after tearing his ACL. 


Smith 
continued from page 24 
season, but already has 13 points in 15 games this year, as well as one of the big­
gest goals of Notre Dame’s season. 
Tied 12-12 with Rutgers on March 30 with just 22 seconds left in overtime, Smith cut and caught a perfect pass from senior attack Mag­gie Tama­sitis. Smith buried the shot, secur­ing Notre 
“[Scoring the game-winner] was really exciting, especially with it being such a great game the whole time,” Smith said. “I remember Maggie passed it to me and I didn’t even think I was open and I yelled ‘no’ to her, but she passed anyway. It 
“I think [coach Halfpenny] has really done a great job making me see all the things that you have to do with coaching,” 
Margaret Smith Irish sophomore midfielder 
was a great pass and we were so ex­cited to win that game and pull out a great vic­tory.” 
In addition to excelling in nearly ev­ery physical aspect of the game, Smith is one of the most heady players on the team. Coach­es and team­


Dame’s most dramatic win of mates praise her as one of the 
the season and its first 8-0 team’s best competitors, and 
start in nearly a decade. is considering continuing in lacrosse as a coach after her playing days are over. Smith said Halfpenny has been a mentor and role mod­el for her, and has already helped her get a taste of coaching as a career. “I think [coach Halfpenny] has really done a great job making me see all the things that you have to do with coaching,” Smith said. “She has done a great job in talking to me about setting up for me to help coach at camps this summer, and coaching over the summer to help me get into the business a little bit, which is great.” Graduation is still a long way off for Smith though, leaving her two full seasons 
— plus the upcoming post­season — to continue making her mark in every area of the game. 
“[Smith] is a really, really special player for us,” Half­penny said. “I think her ath­letic ability is second to none. I think that she is going to have such a tremendous ca­reer here at Notre Dame, be­cause of her versatility.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 

page 22 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, May 2, 2012 

ASHLEY DACY/The Observer 
Irish senior Max Scodro sinks a putt during the Battle at the Warren on April 22 at the Warren Golf Course. 
Scodro 
continued from page 24 
“We have won a few of these, but this year is pretty special because I really thought that we had one heck of a team start­ing the season,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “We brought all of our starters back, but then throughout the year we really struggled. We had some deep valleys and not too many peaks, but I knew we were better than that. 
“To watch Max win back-to­back as an individual and the team to grab that trophy today and to do it really convincingly makes it a special season for us.” 
Scodro held a two-stroke lead heading into the last 18 holes. On the third and final day, the senior played par-golf until the last two holes of the tournament. Still holding a two-stroke lead, Scodro bird­ied 17, but ran into trouble on 18 when his approach shot sailed past the final green. Scodro’s competition — Louis­ville senior Justin Dorward — parred, but the Irish veteran saved himself and the indi­vidual Big East championship with a double-bogey to finish out the round. 
“Today [Max] played solidly,” Kubinski said. “He played well, but he didn’t [get] as close to the hole as he did the last two days, so he didn’t have those great birdie looks. He just made a lot of pars. Finally he broke through, which just shows the patience. A lot of younger play­ers — and he would have been one of them a few years ago 
— would have been frustrated and pressed and try to make something happen, but he nev­er did. I am so proud of him.” 
While Scodro grabs the headlines with his second Big East championship, the entire Irish roster performed at a high level throughout the tour­nament. Four of the five Irish golfers finished in the top 10, and Notre Dame also turned in under-par team scores each day, with its lowest coming in the final round. 
“The experience was shin­ing through today because [these guys] took the ball from the first tee and really played beautifully,” Kubinski said. “One of the things we fought during the season was Max was playing well and maybe one other player, but we never had those four scores. The last three days, we had four scores everyday and pretty much five, like today. Just a fantastic team effort.” 
Walker and sophomore Niall Platt led the Irish in the third round, both carding four-un­der par. Not only did the 68 bring Walker within two total shots of Scodro and into third place, but Platt’s 68 also vault­ed him from 23rd into the top 10. 
“Today and actually the last three days, Chris got off to a good start and just kept playing that way all the way through,” Kubinski said. “He didn’t have to battle as much, which was neat. Then on the back nine, he started making birdies today and it really sealed the deal. I was with Max and I knew he was around even, but with Niall and Chris taking it to 68, it really took the heart out of Louisville.” 
Junior Paul McNamara and senior Tom Usher rounded out the Irish roster. After making an important four-under con­tribution in the first round, McNamara struggled to start the final day, recording three bogeys through 11 holes. But the California-native fought back, finishing with birdies on holes 13 and 14 to end in fifth place. 
“[Paul is] playing beauti­fully and he’s thinking better on the course,” Kubinski said. “The 68 on the first round re­ally gave us a nice boost and actually gave us a one-shot lead on the first day. He fought hard today. He was three over and maybe there were some nerves, but he settled himself, calmed himself down, made a couple of birdies coming in and got right into that count­ing score as well.” 
After encountering obstacles throughout his career, Usher finally takes home a Big East team championship as part of the starting Irish roster. Dur­ing Usher’s sophomore year, the Irish missed the Big East team championship by one stroke to Georgetown. Then, the senior suffered an injury in his junior year and was forced to watch as the Irish won the Big East last season. 
“Tom has had his ups and downs, but he started to play well the last couple of weeks,” Kubinski said. “To see him as part of the team and get that win that he just missed the last couple of years is pretty special, because you won’t find someone who works harder than Tom anywhere. He puts in the time and I am just so proud of him.” 
After taking two weeks off, the Irish will head to the NCAA tournament beginning May 11. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


Markson 
continued from page 24 
baseman and allowed another run to score. A second sacrifice bunt knotted the score at 5-5. Finally, DeFilippis knocked in the go-ahead single to make it 6-5. 
“It would have been tough to extend that losing streak to five games and I hope that this is a thing we can build off of and use for the future,” Aoki said. 
Sophomore right-handed pitcher Sean Fitzgerald came in to relieve Veerkamp and threw five shutout innings, giving the Irish a chance to catch up to the Bulldogs. Aoki said without Fitzgerald, the eighth inning rally would not have had the same sig­nificance in the game. 
“If they scored any more runs when Sean had been pitching it would have been very hard for us to come back,” Aoki said. “He was able to get us back in our dugout, and I think he thoroughly domi­nated the game for us. It was sore­ly needed.” 
The Bulldogs did not let up after conceding the lead in the eighth. In Butler’s last at-bats, the Bull­dogs put two men on base and had runners in scoring position. Irish sophomore closer Dan Slania managed to force a ground ball that resulted in a double play to end the game, earning his ninth save of the season.
 “Dan came in and even though he was a little bit behind in some of the counts, he found a way to close it out,” Aoki said. 
Notre Dame will now focus its attentions on the upcoming series against Villanova in Plymouth, Pa., starting Friday afternoon. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 


Wednesday, May 2, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 23 
EUgENIA LAST 

WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



DAVID HOyT 

LEE HAgENJOS and ALEx gRISWOLD 
JUMBLE 
LONDON EXPRESS 
JEFF KNUREK 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, May 2, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
BASEBALL 
Rally capped 
Three-run eighth-inning rally leads Irish to 6-5 win 

By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
With the crack of Notre Dame freshman shortstop Kevin De-Filippis’ bat during the eighth inning, the Irish took lead over Butler and earned a 6-5 victory while snapping a four-game los­ing streak. 
“I felt like we had the opportu­nity to put together a really good inning in the eighth,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “Kevin, who looked really good in his previous at bat, came through with a big hit there for us to give us the lead.” 
Notre Dame (23-20, 9-9 Big East) first put runs on the board in the third inning when junior second baseman Frank DeSico scored on freshman outfielder Ryan Bull’s RBI double. Bull then came home after a balk by But­ler’s pitcher, and sophomore first baseman Trey Mancini hit a solo shot to put Notre Dame’s lead at 3-0. Junior righthanded pitcher Patrick Veerkamp started the game for the Irish and threw more than three shutout innings to give Notre Dame a cushion early on. 
The lead was not enough, though, as Butler (20-25, 8-13 Ho­rizon) responded in the following inning by getting to Veerkamp through errors by the Irish de­fense. With the bases loaded for the Bulldogs, an RBI single brought two runs home. An er­rant throw to first caused two more runs to score and another single put the score at 5-3 in favor of Butler. 
In the bottom of the eighth in­ning the Irish still found them­selves down 5-3, but rallied behind a series of hits and small-ball tactics to score three runs against the Bulldogs. 
“We came through at that point, there was a course of the year when we had been sort of streaky and we talked a lot about it, and today had timely hitting,” Aoki said. 
Irish junior catcher Joe Hudson started the rally with a single, fol­lowed by another single by sopho­more outfielder Alex Robinson. Then, junior centerfielder Charlie Markson laid down a bunt that caused havoc for the Bulldogs, as the pitcher overthrew the first 
see MARKSON/page 22 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
NCAA denies forward Abromaitis a sixth year 
Observer Staff Report 
The NCAA denied graduate student forward Tim Abromai­tis a sixth season of eligibility Monday, ending his collegiate career. 
The three-time Big East Scholar Athlete of the Year ap­plied for a sixth year follow­ing a torn ACL suffered dur­ing a November 2011 practice. Abromaitis only played in two games in the 2011-2012 season due to a four-game suspen­sion for playing in exhibition games during the 2008-2009 campaign — a season he sat out to preserve an extra year of eligibility. 
The NCAA typically grants a sixth year of eligibility to players who missed two sea­sons due to injuries or family issues, but since Abromaitis chose to sit out the 2008-2009 season, the chances of re­ceiving a sixth year were ex-
see NCAA/page 21 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Smith excels for team as versatile midfielder 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
A versatile, unselfish of­fense. An aggressive, attack­ing defense. 
When Irish coach Chris­tine Halfpenny arrived at Notre Dame earlier this year, these were the two keys she preached in her game plan for her team’s success. 
And on this young Irish roster that has surprised so many this year, no player has been better in both facets of the game than sophomore midfielder Margaret Smith. 
Smith — an All-American and national champion as a high schooler in Maryland — has always been a defensive standout, and has continued to thrive in that role for the Irish. Smith has been a force in dispossessing opponents this season, as she leads the team in both caused turn­overs and draw controls, and is a close second in ground balls. 
Halfpenny said Smith’s ability to take the ball away and win possession for her teammates has changed the course of games — and Notre Dame’s season. 
“[Smith] can play defense,” Halfpenny said. “She can be a game-changer on defense. She can limit individuals. She can limit a unit because she’s so smart off-ball, not just good on-ball but smart off-ball. Her basics and fun­damentals are outstanding.” 
And while Smith has been a consistent defensive pres­ence in her first two seasons at Notre Dame, she has be­come an integral part of the Irish attack this year as well. Smith was unable to find the scoresheet in 19 games last 
see SMITH/page 21 
ND SOFTBALL 
Non-conference game canceled due to rain 
Observer Staff Report 
Due to pending rain, Notre Dame’s matchup against Northern Illinois was can­celed Tuesday. The Irish will attempt to overcome the con­sistently poor weather in the South Bend area Wednesday to round out their homestand with a game against Eastern Michigan at 6 p.m. 
The last time the Irish (32­13, 13-3 Big East) were sched­uled to play the Eagles (21-30, 7-23 MAC) was last March, when the doubleheader meant to open Notre Dame’s home schedule was cancelled due to inclement weather. 
In the 15 meetings between the two programs, the Irish have dominated, 13-2. The last successful meeting was March 23, 2010, where Notre Dame cruised to a 9-3 lead over the Eagles. 
The Irish are currently sporting an 11-game win­ning streak and are 24-3 in conference play. Notre Dame is currently ranked third in Big East standings, behind Lousiville (47-2, 17-2) and South Florida (44-8, 16-3). 
The success of the Irish 
see SUCCESS/page 21 
MEN’S GOLF 

Notre Dame wins Big East title 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 

Behind a true team effort, the Irish defended their Big East ti­tle in dominating fashion, win­ning the team championship by 16 strokes over their next-clos­est opponent, Louisville. 
Senior Max Scodro also took home his second consecutive Big East individual champion­ship, while senior Chris Walker tied for third with a final round of four-under par. 
The Irish entered the day with a seven-stroke lead, but more than doubled that margin on the final day of play to take home their fifth Big East cham­pionship in the last 10 years. 
see SCODRO/page 22 






