THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOvER NEWSPAPER SERvING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCURATEly 

vOlUME 46, ISSUE 64 | MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Championship lottery opens to students 
Notre Dame Athletic Ticket Office to randomly allocate 2,500 tickets Dec. 10 to eligible entrants 
Observer Staff Report 

The Notre Dame Athletic Ticket Office sent an email to the student body Sunday night detailing the process for en­tering the ticket lottery for the Notre Dame vs. Alabama BCS National Championship Bowl Game in Miami, Fla., sched­uled for Jan. 7. 2,500 tickets will be randomly allocated to eligible full-time undergradu­ate, graduate and professional students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s College, according to the webpage linked in the email. 
Students may enter the ticket lottery for a single ticket and must pay the $150 student price as well as a $20 service fee upon entry. Unsuccessful applicants will be reimbursed the ticket price but will not be refunded the service fee. 
This student ticket rate comes at a steep discount to regu­lar tickets with a face value of $300. The email attributed the lowered price to an anonymous 
see TICKETS PAGE 3 


2,500 STUDENT TICKETS $150 EACH [PLUS $20 SERVICE FEE] 
CURRENT FULL-TIME UNDERGRADUATE, GRADUATE, & PROFESSIONAL STUDENTS AT ND & SMC 
SUNDAY, DEC. 2 – WEDNESDAY, DEC. 5 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 



Doctor plans to tour India 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
Dr. Subhash Basu, profes­sor emeritus of chemistry and biochemistry, will embark on a speaking tour of India on 

Tuesday to discuss his current research on potential new an-ti-cancer drugs. 
Basu will make his second appearance at the International Cancer Research Symposium on Dec. 19 in Calcutta when he gives a lec­ture titled “Probable New Therapeutic Drugs for Breast and Colon Cancers.” 

“The invitation to this sym­posium is very prestigious. Sixty people from all over the world are going to Calcutta,” he said. “I will tell them what our plan is for the delivery of these new anti-cancer drugs.” 
Basu’s lecture tour will also include an appearance at the Indian Science Congress on Jan. 4, where he will discuss the apoptotic, or cell-kill­ing, effects of the drugs he is working with his collaborators to develop. 
“Our work is important, and we get an invitation every year to speak at these sorts of things,” he said. 
Basu said he and his re­search team have discovered five to six different new anti­cancer compounds that would be useful for treating colon and breast cancer patients. 
“These chemicals are quite toxic to biological cells and they kill cancer cells by en­hancing apoptosis, or pro­grammed cell death, in a very micro amount,” he said. 
see INDIA PAGE 4 


Dunkin’ Donuts opens doors 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
News Writer 
Fast-food breakfast giant Dunkin’ Donuts opened its first South Bend location last week, and the restaurant is already see­ing success. 
The South Bend franchise of the multibillion dollar coffee and donut chain, located on State Road 933 three miles north of campus, opened its doors Nov. 26, just down the street from its main competitor, Starbucks. 
But the competition has not slowed down the restaurant’s initial success. Store manager Beth Blaylock said the location has even exceeded expectations. 
“It’s much bigger than we ex­pected. It’s going great though. … We’ve definitely surpassed what we thought it would be,” she said. “We have lines to the door pretty much every day. On Saturday we literally had lines out the door, people standing outside waiting to come in.” 
The owners of the franchise also own the neighboring Jimmy John’s Gourmet Sandwiches, but 
see DONUTS PAGE 4 

Project creates blankets for cancer patients 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
As the temperature outside gets colder, cancer patients across the Midwest will be a little warmer thanks to the blankets made dur­ing the seventh annual Aidan Project. 
The Aidan Project, which is sponsored by Circle K and Knott Hall, took place from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in South Dining Hall on Saturday. 
Members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s families, the South Bend Kiwanis Club, the Nappanee High School Key Club and the Manchester University Circle K joined in making 203 blankets for cancer patients of all ages, which will be delivered to hospitals throughout the Midwest. 
The Aidan Project was intro­duced in 2006 and named for Aidan Fitzgerald, a graduate of the Class of 2010 who was diagnosed with testicular cancer during his sophomore year. 
Fitzgerald said his roommate at the time, 2009 alumnus Chris Esber, was involved with Circle K and decided to rebrand the group’s Blanket Bash as The Aidan Project. Fitzgerald said participation in the rebranded event went from around 30 people to more than 200. 
Fitzgerald said the event is about more than just making blankets. 
“This isn’t about me. This event exists because cancer is a ubiqui­tous issue. I just happen to have my name attached to it,” he said. “It’s also not about the number of blan­kets we make. It’s about raising 
see AIDAN PAGE 5 

JODI LO | The Observer 
Freshman Andrew Petrisin makes one of the 203 total blankets as part of the Aidan Project in South Dining Hall on Dec. 1. 


SMC IT CHANGES PAGE 3 vIEWPOINT PAGE 6 SCENE PAGE 8 MEN’S HOCKEy PAGE 16 SEC CHAMPIONSHIP PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: Kristen Durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: Dan Brombach Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Monica McCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary’s 
College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
What are you most excited about for Christmas? 

Berenice Perez 

Nancy Reynolds 
sophomore 
sophomore 
Regina Hall 
le Mans Hall 
“Gifts.” 
“Food.” 
Emily Wren 
sophomore 
le Mans Hall 
“Being with my family.” 
Megan Costanzo 
sophomore 
Holy Cross Hall 

“Spending time with family and eating real food.” 

Stephanie Hernandez 
junior le Mans Hall 
“Ready to go back to warm weather by.” 
Tess Silver 
sophomore Holy Cross Hall 
“Gingerbread lattes.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Mel Flanagan Andrew Gastelum Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Christian Myers Conor Kelly Maddie Daly Aaron Sant-Miller 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Steph Wulz Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 

Advent Bible Study “The Future of the Make Your Own Last Lecture Series Vigil Mass 
Suzanna Pratt Amber Galik 

320 Geddes Hall University” Stressballs Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred ICL Library 1130 Eck Hall of Law Hesburgh Library Center Heart 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 
Corrections 

Open to all preparing Philosophy, education Study break with Professors John Roos Immaculate 
The Observer regards itself as for the birth of Christ. and Catholic tradition. snacks. and Paul Weithman. Conception mass. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Building Traditional Four: 7 Women’s Basketball Iron Sharpens Iron Hockey 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
in the 21st Century” Cavanaugh Hall Joyce Center Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice 
however, recognize that we will make 
104 Bond Hall 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7 p.m. Center Arena 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
4:30p.m.-5:30 p.m. Catholic fellowship ND vs. Baylor 10 p.m.-11 p.m. 7:05 p.m.-9:05 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Architecture lecture meeting led by Tickets $12/Adult, $5/ Student-led praise and ND vs. Michigan State 
we can correct our error. 

by Ernesto Buch. students. Youth and Senior. worship. Tickets $7-$25. 


Gmail, other upgrades coming to Saint Mary’s 
Information Technology plans to phase in several advancements in next few months 
Boehm said. “We don’t have a summer, Boehm said, includ-
By JILLIAN BARWICK 

Saint Mary’s Editor firm date yet, because we are ing the installation of more working on all the pieces and wireless points on campus. Saint Mary’s students who parts as far as the technology “One of the things we 
are frustrated with Zimbra or and resolving some of the is-wrapped up was wireless for 
tired of not having Wi-Fi in sues, but we are migrating to the last two remaining halls, 
their rooms can look forward Gmail.” which were Holy Cross and 
to a series of technological Boehm and his staff ex-Moreau. We replaced wire-
advancements over the next plored a number of options less in McCandless and re-
few months. for an e-mail provider and de-did some of it in the Student Michael Boehm, chief termined Gmail was the best Center,” Boehm said. “I think 
information officer for choice for the College. the number is about 165 wire-
Information Technology (IT) “Gmail is really the front-less points that we added over 
at the College, said the cam-runner for higher education,” the summer. This represents 
pus will be switching to Gmail Boehm said. “We started the about 50 percent of our wire-
as soon as possible. process about two months less footprint.” “One of the first responsi-ago where we had our Saint Boehm said he and the IT 
bilities I had when I got here Mary’s domain name regis-staff are working on renovat­
was to solidify the email tered through Google.” ing the older 50 percent of 
situation. I got here at the IT made several addition-wireless points. 
tail end of fixing Zimbra,” al advancements over the Faculty technology re-access information. students. quests were also due to IT “The alumnae resource “[The students said] their PAID ADvERTISEMENT for the rest of the year re-network will be another big friends reach out to them cently. Boehm said around thing next semester and how through text message or 25 forms were submitted, that ties back to the Career Twitter or Facebook. So the with requests ranging from Crossings Office and net-vendors jumped right on it new projectors to new mark-working,” Boehm said. “Also, and thought that those would ers for the white boards in I am hoping to have a mo-be the better ways to send out classrooms. bile app rolled out around information from Registrar “This week, a commit-February. It’s not meant to or Student Affairs,” Boehm tee made up of stakeholders be the end-all, be-all app for said. “The students, however, across the campus will meet Saint Mary’s, but the idea said that if that were to hap-to go through the newly sub-behind it gives students ac-pen, they would be less likely mitted requests and try to put cess to course information, to check as much and pay less some cost estimates to them, Blackboard, email and access attention.” then try to figure out where to social networks all in one The team is now working do they fall on the priority list place.” to determine the most im­for this year,” he said. While this is not a defi-portant notifications for stu-Next semester, Boehm said nite, Boehm said he is excited dents and how the team can IT will be looking into creat-about a potential mobile app stop messages from flooding ing new places for students to because of the amenities it the inbox through the mobile could offer students. app, Boehm said. PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
“We are looking to maybe While there are no specif-
put in the athletic schedule or ic dates for the mobile app 
maybe the shuttle schedule to or the migration to Gmail, 
go along with the core pieces Boehm said the most impor­
for the app,” Boehm said. “We tant task right now is naming 
are working with different a director of network services 
vendors to hone in on what we infrastructure. 
are looking for. They all offer “Our two finalists will be 
somewhat of an out-of-the-coming to campus this week 
box solution that comes with for the final interviews for 
this core functionality.” the position,” Boehm said. 
Boehm has also been work-“One of the main goals I hope 
ing alongside students from for that person to get accom-
Steven Broad’s Systems, plished next semester is an 
Analysis and Design course. architecture for a network for 
The class is completing proj-Saint Mary’s.” 
ects on the technological ad-With the solidification of 
vancements that campus will his IT team, Boehm said the 
be seeing. advancements for the College 
The students have an equal will be able to get underway 
say in the process as the rest next semester. 
of the team, Boehm said, and 
they are able to represent Contact Jillian Barwick at 
the interests of the College jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
“Tickets are non-transfer-
Tickets 
rable and may only be used 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
by the winning student,” the donation. email stated. “The winning 
“Due to the overwhelm-student must present their val­
ing generosity of a concerned id ND/SMC student ID at the 
alumnus, student tickets for pickup location beginning ap­
the BCS Championship will proximately 36 hours prior to 
be half-price, $150 each,” the kickoff.” 
email stated. There is no grouping pro-
Unlike other away game stu-cess available and seating will dent ticket lotteries, tickets will be assigned at random. Unlike only be redeemable by the win-the faculty and alumni lotter­ning students and may not be ies, there is no weighting in the used by others, including other student lottery and all entrants Notre Dame or Saint Mary’s stand an equal chance of at-students. taining tickets. 




THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

Donuts 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
although the experience helps in the management of the store, Baylock said it did not provide much data to use in forecasting the restaurants’ success. 
“[The franchise owners] own a store in Kalamazoo, so we were based a little bit off of that, but we didn’t really have any idea of how it was going to be,” Blaylock said. 
Though this is the first Dunkin’ Donuts in the South Bend-Mishawaka area, some Notre Dame students who know the restaurant from their hometowns eagerly anticipated the opening. 
“I’m really excited about the Dunkin Donuts opening. Dunkin Donuts was my drink of high school,” junior Maria Skorcz said. “We used to go through the drive-through in the morning before school. I’m excited to get back to my glory days of coffee drinking.” 
Thanks to the corpora­tion’s well-known brand, some students who have never 
Aidan 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
awareness.” 
Fitzgerald said he had a strong, focused attitude when he was bat­tling cancer. 
“There was never a doubt in my mind that I was going to recover. It was anticlimactic when I finished chemo therapy because nothing felt different,” he said. “I think it was harder for my friends and fam­ily than for me, because for me the process was clear while they were removed from it and left to wonder what was going on.” 
Cancer treatment was a diffi­cult but important part of his life, Fitzgerald said, and is now some­thing he can joke about. 
“It sucked, but it was a defining moment in my life and it taught me a new appreciation for things,” he said. “I also like to make light of the having gone through cancer. Since it was testicular cancer and they did have to remove one, I picked up a few nicknames.” 
Those who have cancer just want a return to normalcy, Fitzgerald said.
 “That’s why it’s great to just make blankets instead of some­thing over the top. When you go through chemo you lose your hair and everything, so you get cold,” he said. “A blanket is just what they need.” 
Fitzgerald, who currently lives in Indianapolis, participated in this year’s event with his fiancée. He said he was glad that students were willing to take the time to make blankets for cancer patients. 
“It’s cool to see people here on a Saturday morning instead of sleeping in or watching Tv, or do­ing anything but coming out to make blankets,” he said. 
Sophomores Emily Mediate and Hilary Johnson, co-chairs of Circle K Special Projects, organized the event. 
Mediate said she enjoyed plan­ning the Aidan Project because it afforded her the opportunity to be involved from the beginning stages through to delivering the blankets. 


Johnson said she enjoys the proj­ect because of what it means to the individuals, mostly children, who receive the blankets. 
“It’s a great way to impact the lives of the kids. you wouldn’t think a blanket that took 20 min­utes to make would put such a big smile on a kid’s face, but it does and it makes a big difference,” Johnson said. 
Mediate said they contacted hospitals around the Midwest about how many blankets each wanted, and Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis ordered the greatest number. She said Circle K members who live near the participating hospitals deliver the blankets when they return home for winter break. 
In preparation for the event, the group bought 1,000 yards of fleece 
India 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
Now that these cancer-killing compounds have been discovered, Basu said the main goal of his work is to determine ways to deliver the drugs into patients at the location of the cancer with­out harming the healthy cells around the cancerous ones. 
“Cancer cells normally die of necrosis — they make holes in themselves,” he said. “When apoptosis happens, the cell gets bigger and its DNA starts degrading until the cell cannot function.” 
Basu said about 50,000 women die of breast cancer in the United States each year, so his research could im­pact thousands of lives in the future. 
“Chemotherapy could be improved by our procedure by giving patients micro dos­es of drugs so they don’t kill the normal cells,” he said. “Thus, the success of these apoptotic chemicals as anti­cancer drugs depends on their proper delivery to the cancer sites.” 
To facilitate and fund his research in this area, Basu founded the Cancer Drug Delivery Research Foundation 


PAID ADvERTISEMENT 

said the franchise is not con­cerned about the competition. 
“I think that our customer service is going to bring a lot of people over, and our product mix is just different enough and the atmosphere and the attitude is different enough that I think that there’s room for both of us,” she said. “But I think that right now we’re definitely the busier of the two.” 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
for $4,000, the funds for which come from a grant from Kiwanis International and fundraising ef­forts, which include Aidan Project T-shirt sales. 
Mediate said after purchasing the fleece they pre-cut it to speci­fied sizes. On Saturday, students made either single or double lay­ered blankets from the fleece. She said students were able to choose their preferred fleece pattern for each blanket and could make a card to go along with the blanket. 
Junior Molly Daily, who par­ticipated in the event for the third time, said she believes the Aidan Project is a simple way to do some­thing good. 
“It’s a really easy way to do something good,” Daily said. “It doesn’t take a lot of time and its really fun.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
(CDDRF) in 2010, of which he serves as president. The foun­dation received its first major source of support when the University transferred all of Basu’s recoupment to CDDRF in May, he said. 
“All this recoupment was brought in by me from federal grants and other sources dur­ing my time at the University,” Basu said. “This foundation is tax-exempt and will help only for my research, so any patent money we get can go into the research as well.” 
Basu said his status as a per­manently appointed emeritus professor gave him the free­dom to move his lab from campus to a currently unde­termined site near campus. 
“The University said I would have to give half of whatever I bring in to Notre Dame if I con­tinue to work in a lab here,” he said. “It becomes cheaper for me to run my lab outside be­cause I can use 100 percent of my money for research.” 
Since joining the faculty at Notre Dame in 1970, Basu has received major grants from the National Institutes of Health and the National Cancer Institute. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin2@nd.edu 
experienced the restaurant be­fore are interested in the oppor­tunity to try out a new coffee and breakfast place. 
“I’m a big coffee drinker, and we don’t have Dunkin’ Donuts in Minnesota, so I’m really excited to try their drinks and see how they compare to Starbucks,” ju­nior Elliot Badar said. 
Dunkin Donuts’ website states the chain is the No. 1 coffee-by-the-cup retailer in America. Though there is a Starbucks across the parking lot, Blaylock 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 



States increase school time 
Third storm system 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Open your notebooks and sharpen your pencils. School for thou­sands of public school stu­dents is about to get quite a bit longer. 
Five states were to an­nounce Monday that they will add at least 300 hours of learning time to the calendar in some schools starting in 2013. Colorado, Connecticut, Massachusetts, New york and Tennessee will take part in the initiative, which is intended to boost student achievement and make U.S. schools more competitive on a global level. 
The three-year pilot pro­gram will affect almost 20,000 students in 40 schools, with long-term hopes of expand­ing the program to include ad­ditional schools — especially those that serve low-income communities. Schools, work­ing in concert with districts, parents and teachers, will decide whether to make the school day longer, add more days to the school year or both. 
A mix of federal, state and district funds will cover the costs of expanded learn­ing time, with the Ford Foundation and the National Center on Time & learning also chipping in resources. In Massachusetts, the program builds on the state’s existing expanded-learning program. In Connecticut, Gov. Dannel Malloy is hailing it as a natu­ral outgrowth of an education reform law the state passed in May that included about $100 million in new funding, much of it to help the neediest schools. 

Spending more time in the classroom, education officials said, will give students access to a more well-rounded cur­riculum that includes arts and music, individualized help for students who fall behind and opportunities to reinforce critical math and science skills. 
“Whether educators have more time to enrich instruc­tion or students have more time to learn how to play an instrument and write comput­er code, adding meaningful in-school hours is a critical in­vestment that better prepares children to be successful in the 21st century,” Education Secretary Arne Duncan said in a statement. 
The project comes as educa­tors across the U.S. struggle to identify the best ways to strengthen a public educa­tion system that many fear has fallen behind other na­tions. Student testing, teacher evaluations, charter schools and voucher programs join longer school days on the list of reforms that have been put forward with varying degrees 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 

of success. 
hits California 

The report from the center, which advocates for extend­ing instruction time, cites re­search suggesting students who spend more hours learn­ing perform better. One such study, from Harvard econo­mist Roland Fryer, argues that of all the factors affecting ed­ucational outcomes, two are the best predictors of success: intensive tutoring and adding at least 300 hours to the stan­dard school calendar. 
More classroom time has long been a priority for Duncan, who warned a con­gressional committee in May 2009 — just months after be­coming education secretary 
— that American students were at a disadvantage com­pared to their peers in India and China. That same year, he suggested schools should be open six or seven days per week and should run 11 or 12 months out of the year. 
But not everyone agrees that shorter school days are to blame. A report last year from the National School Boards Association’s Center for Public Education disputed the no­tion that American schools have fallen behind in class­room time, pointing out that students in high-performing countries like South Korea, Finland and Japan actually spend less time in school than most U.S. students. 

Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Residents of Northern California endured the brunt of another power­ful storm that drenched the area with yet another round of pounding rain and strong winds, but damage from the storm was less than expected, officials said. 
The latest storm system — the third to hit the area in less than a week — moved across the region late Saturday and early Sunday dropping as much as an inch of rain per hour in some areas, toppling trees and knocking out electrical service to tens of thou­sands of people, officials said. 
Rivers across Northern California swelled from the deluge, but did not flood as ex­tensively as had been expected, officials said. 
Forecasters had issued flood warnings for the Napa and Russian rivers, two rivers north of San Francisco with a history of flooding, as well as the Truckee River, near lake Tahoe, but by Sunday afternoon had canceled the warning for the Russian River. 
“It (the storm) moved through a lit bit faster than it was looking like it would, so it didn’t plant on top of us and keeping raining,” said Austin Cross, a meteorolo­gist with the National Weather Service. “The period of heavy rain didn’t last as long.” 
In Napa, where officials had handed out more than 8,000 sandbags and about 150 tons of sand before the storm hit, officials breathed a sigh of re­lief Sunday afternoon after the heaviest rain moved out of the area and the city appeared to avoid any major damage from the storm. 
“We’ve had some minor street flooding and some of the inter­sections were flooded,” Napa city spokesman Barry Martin said. 
Flood construction projects were credited with keeping the river within its banks through the city, while most of anticipat­ed flooding, expected around 6 
p.m. Sunday, was expected to hit a mostly agricultural area out­side of the city, officials said. 
In Truckee, 30 miles west of Reno, city officials were focus­ing on snow removal Sunday afternoon instead of flood con­trol after the town received 4 to 5 inches of snow in the morning, said Assistant City Manager Alex Terrazas. 
“We continue to keep an eye on the river, but things are cer­tainly better than they could have been,” he said. “We’ll tran­sition back to flood management if we need to.” 
Besides the speed in which the system moved through the area, weather officials were heartened by colder temperatures than ex­pected in the mountains, mean­ing more snow and less rain fell. 
In far Northern California, flood warnings remained in ef­fect Sunday for the Eel, Navarro and Mad rivers. 
Meanwhile, as Pacific Gas & Electric crews worked on restor­ing power, about 57,000 people from Santa Cruz to Eureka, in­cluding about 13,000 people in the San Francisco Bay area, remained without electricity Sunday afternoon as the pow­erful winds from the storm knocked down trees and sent broken tree limbs and branches across power lines, officials said. 
“It really did broadside California,” PG&E spokesman Joe Molica said of the storm. 
About 2,000 PG&E crews were working Sunday to try to restore power, Molica said. 
Wind gusts, recorded as high as 60 miles per hour in parts of the Bay area, were blamed for knocking over a big rig truck as it drove over the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge at around 5 a.m. Sunday. 
Tow crews had to wait for the winds to subside later in the morning before they could re­move the truck, officials said. 
Also, train service on the Bay Area Rapid Transit system was disrupted for about an hour Sunday morning because of an electrical outage blamed on the weather. 


Cliff notes 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Just say ‘Hello’ 

Sarah Swiderski 
News Writer 

like many Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame students, I am currently keep­ing myself from falling into a school-induced coma by consuming obnoxious amounts of caffeine and listening to Pandora as I sprint to the finish line of the semester. I am not the only senior, or student, for that matter, who is feel­ing the strain before finals week even commences. 
Because we are all so busy, I think we sometimes forget to notice those around us. Before Thanksgiving break, my mom came to pick me up. As we took the stairs down from my fifth-floor single we passed a couple of other students. Not taking any notice of them, I continued on my way — but my mom, behind me, said hello to them. 
“Sarah, don’t you guys ever say hello to each other?” she said, shocked at the indifference I and the other students showed to one another. 
This made me think: Do I say hello to other people as I encounter them or do I ignore my fellow human beings? 
This past week, I have tried to look beyond the stress in my own life and say hello to everyone I encounter in the hall or in the stairwell alone. There are three responses to this: Some people smile and say “Hello” or “Hey” back, some just smile and others will flat-out ignore me. 
Since some people responded, I con­cluded that students in general are not so stressed that they can’t take notice of their surroundings. It’s more likely that they just feel awkward and don’t want to confront the situation. 
I’m challenging others and myself to say hello to each other despite the uncomfortable feeling, even during a stressful time like the week before finals. 
Students at Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame are serious about their studies. It’s easy to ignore the girl passing in the hall alone or the other boy in the elevator, but interacting with a new student allows us to build the community that is Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame. 
Some people think I am a bit strange for trying to say hello to everyone. If you’re still not convinced, here are three reasons to say hello: 
1. 
you learn how to approach people you have never met — a useful skill for the real world beyond college. 

2. 
you might meet someone who could change your life. 

3. 
you may make someone’s bad day a little better. 


So instead of pulling out your phone and pretending to text next time you pass someone in the hall, look up, smile and say hello. Who knows who you might encounter? 
Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Adam Newman 
Scientia Potentia Est 

Every now and then, those who closely follow American politics wit­ness events representing the best of America. The coming fiscal storm, dubbed the “fiscal cliff,” is not one of them. The fiscal cliff presents policy­makers with the challenge of averting a double dip recession, but it’s also an opportunity to place America’s fiscal future on a sustainable track. 
The fiscal cliff is a combination of automatic tax increases and spending cuts, all scheduled to start Jan. 1, 2013. One component is the expiring “Bush tax cuts,” or $4 trillion in temporary tax measures passed in 2001 and 2003. Another component is the “sequester,” the consequence of the famous “super committee” failure to reach a major deal. The sequester, $2 trillion in au­tomatic cuts to defense (something Republicans dislike) and to social pro­grams (something Democrats dislike), was supposed to give members of the committee an incentive to reach an agreement. The super committee could not reach an agreement, however, forc­ing the sequester to begin Jan. 1. There are other smaller, but still significant provisions, such as the expiration of the payroll tax cut, physician Medicare re­imbursement cuts and the expiration of unemployment insurance extensions, all starting on Jan. 1. 
Amidst this policy uncertainty, the nation’s debt ceiling, which currently stands at $16.3 trillion, will be “hit” by the end of the year. Raising the debt 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
ceiling is not a question of spending more money, but allowing the Treasury to borrow money to meet its current obligations. Not raising the debt ceil­ing would lead to a default, the most irresponsible fiscal measure that any country can pursue. 
Even before it started, the fiscal cliff has weakened the American economy through tremendous uncertainty. This uncertainty has delayed decision-making on investment and hiring for small businesses and corporations. The actual implementation of the fis­cal cliff, though, would be devastat­ing. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the fiscal cliff would cause the American econ­omy to contract at a rate of 5 percent (leading to a new recession) and in­crease  unemployment from 7.9 percent to 9.1 percent. If America went off the cliff, the stock market would plunge, interest rates would begin to rise and faith in the American economy would be shattered. 
Deficit reduction is necessary for our country’s fiscal future, but the methods of the fiscal cliff are misguided be­cause massive deficit reduction policies should not be implemented immediate­ly. The budget deficit would be smaller, yes, but America would face a situation similar to the eurozone: A recession with weak projected growth and high-budget deficits. The optimal course for America is to stimulate the economy now through short-term government spending, but couple it with long-term balanced deficit reduction that begins in small doses and increases as the economy strengthens. 
There are countless scenarios for the fiscal cliff’s outcome. Amongst all the options, a policy consensus is be­ginning to emerge: Avoid the cliff by passing a deficit reduction package of approximately $4 trillion with 25 per­cent coming from increased tax rev­enues by broadening the tax base and eliminating loopholes, and the other 75 percent coming from cuts to entitle­ments, social spending and defense. This is the framework of the “Simpson-Bowles” plan that has received support not only from the policy and business communities, but also from liberal, moderate and conservative members of Congress. 
Will we go over the fiscal cliff and see unemployment rise, the economy weaken and economic confidence fade? Given everything that has happened over the past few years, it is largely rea­sonable to think America will squander the opportunity created by the fiscal cliff. As the countless political pun­dits offer their takes on the outcome, I look to a perspective offered by Alexis de Tocqueville, whose famous tour of America in the early 19th century, chronicled in “Democracy in America,” is still an inspiration for Americans to­day. Tocqueville said that in the United States, “events move from the impos­sible to the inevitable without stopping at the probable.” 
Adam Newman is a senior political science major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Nothing is permanent in this wicked world — not even our troubles.” 
Charlie Chaplin British actor, director & screenwriter 



Black magic 
Bridget Galassini 
Bitter Bridget 

Black Friday is a prime example of the power of American consumerism. Stores gradually start to go from the red to the black, hence the name Black Friday. And because of the importance of this spending season to the stores, they want to ensure that they have a huge consumer base, regardless of the implications. 
For example, in the past couple of years, stores have expanded their hours into Thanksgiving Day. In 2010 and 2011, Toys ‘R’ Us and Walmart opened Thursday at 10 p.m. This year, many major stores followed their lead, and others opened even earlier. Thanks to our consumption-focused society, this day, previously reserved exclusively for thanks and family time, has now been given the name “Gray Thursday.” 
Stores do not respect Thanksgiving enough to wait until midnight to open. The main reason is they cannot afford to, since they are competing against one another for buyers. Being among the first stores to open is critical be­cause it can lead to drawing more customers. 
However, opening early affects both employees and shoppers. Many em­ployees have to sacrifice their relaxing Thanksgiving dinners and time with family. Some shoppers feel pressure to do the same. Pretty soon, we’ll be see­ing Thanksgiving dinners set up on the sidewalks outside of Walmart because buying gifts trumps having a quality holiday dinner with family. 
That is the message that the stores are sending to our society. This mes­sage — that consumerism equals happiness and materials are more important than relationships — is will­ingly accepted throughout the holiday season. If a person does not have the best purse, shoes, computer or phone, then they don’t have as much worth. The message that our society sends is that what someone buys is a direct result of how much money they make, and how much money they make shows how important they are. 
This sometimes results in a competi­tion to buy the best gifts for loved ones during the Christmas season. But a better gift to give would be our time, and the unspent money could be given to those who are actually in need. This idea is from the Advent Conspiracy (AC) movement. AC’s youTube videos help us reflect on Christmas and what it is really supposed to be. They explain that Americans spend about $450 bil­lion dollars on Christmas every year, when all it takes to make clean water available to everyone in the world is $10 billion. If we donated just 2.2 per­cent of what we spend on Christmas to living Water International, an organi­zation that AC has continually support­ed, more than a billion people without clean water and sanitation would be given those necessities. 
But as Americans, we are often more concerned about other “crises,” like having the latest iPhone. God forbid we ever let something happen to us where we feel like a “black sheep,” a term that has been applied to BlackBerry users. We buy the latest gizmos and gadgets instead of focusing on real crises in our world, like the necessities of food, health, shelter and clean water. One of the points from the AC videos was that “right now you stand in line to buy things others don’t need, while oth­ers must stand in line because they can’t afford the things they need.” This quote is never truer than on Black Friday. 
In Mackelmore’s song “Wings,” he articulates that society has made consumption run in our veins: “My movement told me be a consumer and I consumed it.” But in the end, the con­sumption just consumes us. We end up focusing on insignificant material things, when really we could be giving the gift of our time instead of shop­ping for the “perfect” material gift. The memories will last longer than any gift. 
So, instead of leaving Thanksgiving dinner early to buy that flat screen, spend the holiday with your family and donate the money you saved to a family in need. If this doesn’t sound appeal­ing to you, you can check out Target’s 2013 Black Friday — it’s already up on their website, of course. 
Bridget Galassini can be reached at bgalassi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The beauty of music 
you can never have too much music. The soul revels in it, and its deepness can sweeten any bitter moment. On Saturday afternoon, I rushed to DeBartolo Performing Arts Center because I was late for a sacred organ music recital. I even­tually made it to the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall. 
The usher opened the door like a magician, and all at once the organ emerged 
— colossal and stunning, from the burnt-orange wood to the gleam of its lead-tin pipes. The whole mass of it resembled the ruins of classical Greece. The pipes, like columns, were remarkable — steady, thick and silver, bearing the weight of the timber. Ornamental sculpture of mollusks, waves, water lilies, roses, rabbits, owls, cardinals, grasses and tulips hugged the colonnades, inspired by the idea that ev­erything that has life and breath praises God. Only the organ’s shadow surpassed it in size. 
And, like the temples, the organ housed the sacred — music that manifested sweet mysteries, where the melody of faith flourished and the soul loved its beliefs. During some songs, the tune trickled into my ears like the whistle of a nightingale. During others, it splashed against my heart like a tempest tide, bellows striking the core, not ending until my ribs slowly ceased to tremble. And with that, every­
body applauded and left. This is the life of the organ. I write about it now to share with you, as you hold onto this paper while eating 
lunch or dinner, or perhaps sitting at your desk. After running helter-skelter from class to class, with finals looming in our thoughts, seize a moment of freedom to indulge in a choir, a concert, a recital or perhaps the morning birds on their branches. It’s a refreshment from headphones and buttons, and a liberation from dullness and anxiety. 
To the Theology Department, the Master of Sacred Music program and the art­ists who performed on Saturday: Thank you. 
Steven Fisher 
freshman Fisher Hall Dec. 2 



By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Scene Writer 

Don’t get me wrong. I love Christmas. The music, the lights, the snow, the cookies, the candles, the Advent wreath, the tree, the presents — everything. But if you try to combine all those things with techno lights, fog machines and bad audio mixing, you’re not celebrating Christmas. you’re ruining it. 
Mannheim Steamroller performed at the Morris Performing Arts Center on Nov. 29. The group consists of six main technical musicians, supported by a small orchestra. Created by Chip Davis, the group has been touring the world since the 1970s. And it certainly sounds that way, too. 
They began the night with a “Fantasia” version of “Hark the Herald Angels Sing” with every instrument imaginable digi­tized. One woman played three different kinds of recorder and the finger cym­bals made far too many appearances throughout the night. 
They certainly played up the Mannheim brand throughout the night, advertising their new CD, “Winter in venice,” by playing an old hymn with video vignettes of a venetian banquet playing in the background. The first 15 minutes were spent promoting their future appearance in las vegas at the venetian Hotel with a tacky video of the show’s creator surrounded by three fawning, feather-clad showgirls. 
Believe it or not, the videos got worse. At one point there were dancing dolls and what looked like a bad version of a MacBook screensaver. The audience was subjected to an intense audio-visual experience, one far too harsh for the sen­timent of the season. At one point, green fog smothered the stage while snow­flakes were pumped from the ceiling. The bass throbbed and the lights frac­tured like a disco ball. I felt like I was at a dubstep show, not a Christmas concert. 
I suppose I should mention the positive parts of the night. The lead violinist was excellent. She demonstrated the most showmanship out of the entire group, and really knew how to make the violin sing, even though it was electronic. 
The harpsichord was my favorite part of the night because it was the only fea­tured instrument that wasn’t hooked up to a synthesizer. They played a pretty good variety of Christmas songs, from “White Christmas” to “Wassail, Wassail” to “Carol of the Bells.” The rest of the real orchestra was stuck in the back two cor­ners, barely visible and barely heard. I assume they were skilled, but were un­fortunately underplayed, and therefore, underappreciated. 
The band’s problem was that it was trying to sensationalize Christmas when the holiday is already the best part of the year. Everyone already loves Christmas, so they didn’t need to add all those pounding, crashing drums and dramatic echoes. 
Maybe I’m missing something because I didn’t grow up with the group. I’m sure there was talent somewhere on that stage, but you would have to cut through 10 feet of wire to find it. Who knew that you could tour the world with a stage version of “GarageBand”? The entire night I felt as if I could have performed just as well with my old key­board at home on the reverb setting. 
The point of a live concert is to see people playing music. But with Mannheim Steamroller, all you see is a bunch of people standing and bobbing their heads as they push buttons. At the very least, the performers should have tried to inject a little more personality and seasonal spirit in their show. If you like your Christmas music to sound like a Tim Burton soundtrack or a Macy’s shopping playlist, then Mannheim Steamroller will be the perfect way to spend the holidays. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 



By ALICE TOLLAKSEN 
Scene Writer 

I really, really hope you’ve seen “Girls,” first of all because great, but also be­cause if you’ve kept up with “Girls,” then you’ve seen the outrageous bit starring Mike Birbiglia as the Syracuse gradu­ate who interviews lena Dunham’s character, Hannah. If you haven’t seen Girls, hack into your parents’ HBO GO account and prepare for the most hilari­ously awkward 10 television episodes of your life. 
Even if you haven’t seen “Girls,” you may have heard of Mike Birbiglia. He is a stand-up comedian, author, actor, and regular on “This American life.” He received critical acclaim for his book, “Sleepwalk With Me & Other Painfully True Stories,” as well as his one-man­show based on the book. I now know that on top of all of this, Mike Birbiglia is a talented filmmaker. 
Birbiglia is the writer, director, and lead of “Sleepwalk With Me,” which screened at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Nov. 29 and 30. The film was adapted from his previously mentioned one-man show of the same name and was produced by Birbiglia with “This American life” host and love of my life, Ira Glass. 
Birbiglia’s film is a mostly-autobi­ographical story about a struggling stand-up comedian familiarly named Matt Pandamiglio. Pandamiglio’s life becomes increasingly chaotic as he fails to address his unsuccessful career, his shaky relationship with his long-term girlfriend, and the emergence of a dan­gerous, albeit amusing, sleep disorder. 
If you’re at all interested in comedy, especially stand-up, I highly recom­mend this movie.  The film follows Pandamiglio as he evolves from a part-time job doing standup at a comedy club (read: he’s a bartender who gets to tell jokes sometimes) to developing his ma­terial and getting the chance to tour. 
Of course, there are quite a few bumps along the way. At one point, he drives several hours to emcee a college lip-syn­ching contest that draws only a handful of attendees. Throughout the movie, we see him experiment with his routine, try new jokes and fall flat. Finally, he finds his footing and starts to get laughs, though at the expense of his sleep and his relationship. I found myself simul­taneously laughing at Pandamiglio and with him, cheering him on while ago­nizingly covering my eyes as I watched his life spin out of control. 
Not only does “Sleepwalk With Me” give what seems to be a very accurate portrayal of the life of a stand-up comedian, it’s full of cameos by com­ics like Wyatt Cenac, Kristen Schaal, Jessi Klein and David Wain. If these names don’t sound familiar, start following them (and Birbiglia) on Twitter. Now. 
Though short, the cameos provide a refreshing and funny break from Pandamiglio’s problems. This includes parts of Wyatt Cenac’s and Jessi Klein’s standup acts, David Wain in a bar with a baby strapped to his torso, and Kristen Schaal being, well … Kristen Schaal. 
Even without the star-spotting, “Sleepwalk With Me” is an examina­tion of relationships and the way we deal with them. The film begins with Pandamiglio moving in with his girl­friend of eight years, played by a very charming lauren Ambrose. While those around him are getting married and having kids, Pandamiglio plays the clas­sic “man-child” still figuring his life out. 
However, while I expected the movie to be a predictable, guy-finally-grows­up-and-settles-down-with-girl story, the film moved in an entirely different direction. It is instead an intensely per­sonal account of confronting reality when avoiding it is no longer an option. 
Because of the autobiographical na­ture of the story, “Sleepwalk With Me” felt incredibly sincere. Though it is about comedy and features many silly, fan­tastical scenes during Pandamiglio’s sleepwalking incidents, the movie ends up being surprisingly realistic, even re­latable. It was, somehow, a pretty serious film about comedy. 
In one scene, many of the real-life standup comics, though in character, have a candid discussion about the dif­ficulties of starting out in comedy, shar­ing stories of their terrible first shows. This was the part I loved the most—it felt honest and was the perfect mix of fun­ny and painful, just like the “Sleepwalk With Me” as a whole. 
To sum it up, come for the Twitter ce­lebrities, stay for the Ira Glass-endorsed storytelling. 
Contact Alice Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
“Sleepwalk with Me” 
IFC Films 
Directed By: Mike Birbiglia 
Starring: Mike Birbiglia and  Lauren Ambrose 


STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Stay in the stands unless it’s deserved 

Vicky Jacobsen 
Sports Writer 
When I was younger, one of my favorite Christmas specials was “Elmo Saves Christmas,” where Elmo receives a magic snow globe. He asks that every day could be Christmas, and the snow globe grants his wish. But Elmo soon realizes this is a mis­take: besides the practical con­cerns of keeping a Christmas tree properly watered during a July heat, Elmo finds that Christmas just isn’t special now that it comes every day. 
I might sound like a scrooge, but this is how I’m beginning to feel about storming the court. I’m pretty sure that there are fresh­men at this school are unaware that you can attend a sporting event without ending up on the playing surface afterwards. 
I’m not just saying this because I’m currently on crutches and physically can’t run onto the field (although I won’t deny that my inability to participate is defi­nitely adding to my indignation). I’m saying this because taking the field or the court after a win is something you do on monumen­tal occasions, not just for  “signa­ture wins.” 
Every year, a student body decides to storm the court for a completely unworthy win, and every year bloggers and ESPN the football win over USC and a berth in the BCS National Championship. I’ll make a spe­cial allowance for the situation (although a celebratory trip through Stonehenge would’ve been more appropriate). 
There are plenty of websites that have published extensive guidelines for when it is appropri­ate to storm the court after a bas­ketball game (for the record, none of them list “My football team is going to the national champion­ship” as one of them.) These rules are well-intentioned but, really, who can remember three pages worth of guidelines when you’re in the stands? So I’m going to make it easier: Will you still talk about this event in 20 years? If the answer is yes, go ahead. If it’s not, stay in your seat for the Alma Mater. 
Beating an undefeated, No. 1 Syracuse team last January? That was both memorable and in keeping with the tradition of taking down top-ranked teams at home. That court needed to be stormed. 
Running onto the court was still new when Notre Dame ended UClA’s 88-game winning streak after trailing by 17 at the half and 11 with less than four minutes left in the game. They’re still showing highlights of that game almost four decades later. For a win that exciting, I’d ap­prove if students stormed the 

Fans do look silly when they run onto the court and the players all look at each other as if to ask, ‘Why?’ 
analysts bemoan the state of col­lege fans, saying that this beauti­ful and wonderful tradition has been overused and abused until all its special meaning has been lost. They’re wrong to think that fans have only recently let this practice get out of hand — rugby union fans have been staging “pitch invasions” as far back as anyone can remember, and ef­forts to stop them date back to the 1920s. But the bloggers are right in one respect: fans do look silly when they run onto the court and the players all look at each other as if to ask, “Why?” 
And sadly, the Notre Dame stu­dent section has become “those” fans. yes, I know that the basket­ball team beat the NCAA defend­ing champions last Thursday (more accurately, the freshmen who now wear their uniforms), but Kentucky was ranked eighth, not first. They were not unde­feated. What, did you all expect the Irish to lose? 
Some people have told me that they took to the court because the football players did. Some people said they were celebrating court, went to get sleeping bags, then returned to spend all night on the parquet. 
But as for a triple-overtime win over then 4-4 Pittsburgh, not even the kids who tried to jump on the field afterwards will bring up that game 20 years from now unless that just happened to be the day they met their future spouse. 
I appreciate the kind of pas­sion that students show when they run onto the field. But when I think of my favorite celebration from this year, easily the most moving was from the Michigan game. Nearly the every student stayed in their row and danced long after everyone else had left, waving multicolored leis in the air. Nobody wanted to run any­where or storm anything. And why would they? At that moment, there was absolutely no place any of us would rather have been. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NBA 

Spurs fined for resting stars 
Associated Press 
Gregg Popovich sent his best players home, deciding they reached the end of the road before the trip was over. 
For that, and for keeping it a secret, the San Antonio Spurs were fined $250,000 by the NBA on Friday. 
Commissioner David Stern said the Spurs “did a disser­vice to the league and our fans” when they didn’t bring Tim Duncan, Tony Parker, Manu Ginobili or Danny Green to Miami for the final game of the six-game trip. 
“The result here is dictated by the totality of the facts in this case,” Stern said in a statement. “The Spurs de­cided to make four of their top players unavailable for an early-season game that was the team’s only regular-sea­son visit to Miami. The team also did this without inform­ing the Heat, the media, or the league office in a timely way. Under these circumstances, I have concluded that the Spurs did a disservice to the league and our fans.” 
Teams are required to re­port as soon as they know a player will not travel because of injury. 
The league’s statement said the Spurs were in viola­tion of league policy reviewed with the board of governors in April 2010 against resting players in a manner “contrary to the best interests of the NBA.” 
The Spurs didn’t comment on the penalty. 
The issue of resting healthy players has been debated before, though usually at the end of the season, not a month into it. And the Spurs have been right at the center of it, Popovich using the rest strategy for an aging team that could use more time off than the NBA schedule often allows. 
They even made a joke out of it last season, the box score listing “OlD” next to the 36-year-old Duncan’s name as the reason he didn’t play. 
Stern wasn’t laughing Thursday. 
He has a nearly $5 billion a year industry to protect and can’t like it when teams aren’t willing to put their best product on display in a marquee game televised by national Tv part­ner TNT. Fans and viewers were excited about seeing the Spurs try to complete an unbeaten road trip against leBron James, Dwyane Wade, Chris Bosh and the NBA champions, so there was an understandable let­down when they learned of the absences. 
But there’s never a guarantee that any players are going to play, and Stern himself has previously made it clear he wasn’t going to impose rules to change that. 
The Cleveland Cavaliers rested a healthy James for four straight games at the end of the 2009-10 regular season. Owners dis­cussed the issue later that week at a meeting in New york, and Stern reported that there was “no conclusion reached, other than a number of teams thought it should be at the sole discretion of the team, the coach, the gen­eral manager, and I think it’s fair to say I agree with that, unless that discretion is abused.” 
In the NFl, the Indianapolis Colts rested a healthy Peyton Manning even with an unde­feated record late in the 2009 season, and the league eventu­ally started trying to schedule as many division matchups as possible for the final two weeks of the season in an effort to make late-season games matter. 
Popovich doesn’t wait until the end of the season to start resting players. 

He was both praised and ripped for the way he navigated the lockout schedule last sea­son, twice surrendering 11-game winning streaks by playing with­out his Big Three. Even those who didn’t like it conceded that a coach who had won four cham­pionships with what’s long been considered the NBA’s model or­ganization probably knew what he was doing, and more defense came Thursday night. 
“Popovich has done this be­fore and he knows what’s best for his team,” former NBA star Shaquille O’Neal said on TNT. “It’s his job to manage his players and do whatever he’d like. He’s thinking about the big picture.” 
Another former player turned TNT analyst, Steve Kerr — who played for Popovich — also de­fended the franchise’s actions. 
“If the NBA punishes the Spurs for sitting players, it opens up a huge can of worms,” he wrote on Twitter. “This is a serious legal challenge for the league.” 
Celtics coach Doc Rivers didn’t think the penalty would keep teams from resting players. 
“I don’t like it,” he said. “It’s a tough one. you’ve got to coach your team to win in the long run and you have to do whatever you need to do. If that’s sitting play­ers, you sit players.” 
That San Antonio — largely unloved in its championship days but suddenly a plucky un­derdog cheered by those who felt Stern overstepped his bounds — nearly won the game before the Heat rallied for a 105-100 victory didn’t sway the commissioner. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR RENT 

House for rent. Close to campus on Napoleon. 2BR 1BA. Available 1/1/13. $590 month. Yard, room for storage. Call 219-629-5483. 
WANTED 

WINTER BREAK WORK Great Pay winterbreakwork.com 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 
   UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. 
“Belly Full” -Dave Matthews Band “Oh I want more. There is no place I’d rather be than here with you, under the sun, the pouring rain, all the sky for you.” 
“Snow Outside” -Dave Matthews Band “Oh, woman is so right. And even if the oceans divide us. I will be here right by your side... If you are tired I’ll bear your burden. If you are dreaming I will not disturb you. Whatever your heart de­sires love, love I’ll clear the way for you.” 



SMC BASKETBALL | OlIvET 79, SMC 75 
Saint Mary’s falls by close margin 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary’s dropped another close contest, falling to Olivet at home Saturday 79-75. 
The Belles (2-5, 0-2 MIAA) started the game out strong, tak­ing a seven-point lead after seven minutes of play. Olivet (4-1, 2-0) responded strong, coming back to take the lead on a 3-pointer with 
10:55 left in the first half. 
Saint Mary’s took a nine-point lead with two minutes remain­ing in the half before the Comets closed out strong to cut the home team’s lead to 44-39. 
The second half was much dif­ferent than the first for the Belles, as Olivet used a 15-2 run to take an eight-point lead just five minutes into the second half. Saint Mary’s was able to cut Olivet’s lead to four before the Comets used a 12-4 run to take a 14-point lead with just over 10 minutes left in the second half. 
Saint Mary’s again fought back strong, scoring 10 straight points to cut Olivet’s lead to four points with just over six minutes left in the game. 

FFirst year guard Bernadette Jordan’s 3-point jumper pulled Saint Mary’s within one point with just under two minutes left in the game. Following a stop, the Belles a possession with a chance to take the lead. Saint Mary’s had three attempts at the basket, but saw them all bounce off the rim and away. 
Though Saint Mary’s made more shots for the game than the Comets, Olivet was strong from behind the 3-point arc for the game, converting on 8 of their 16 3-pointers. 
Sophomore forward Ariana Paul led the Belles in scoring, chipping in 20 points and 10 re­bounds in her first double-double while also contributing four steals and four assists. Junior guard Shanlynn Bias scored 17 points for Saint Mary’s and first year for­ward Krista Knapke had 14 points. 
Saint Mary’s next travels to Kalamazoo on Wednesday to take on the Hornets at 7:30 p.m. 


PAID ADvERTISEMENT 

ND VOLLEYBALL | OHIO STATE 3, ND 0 
Irish fall in first round 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
After a stellar season in which it put together an 11-match win streak in Big East play, Notre Dame saw its campaign come to an end at the hands of No. 14 Ohio State on Friday in the first round of the NCAA championship. 
The Buckeyes (23-10) pro­vided a stern test and a re­lentless offense that proved to be too much for the Irish to handle in a three-set sweep. Ohio State had a total of 52 kills with a .512 hitting per­centage for the match. 
“Obviously this isn’t the way that any of us like to finish our season. I tip my hat, even though I don’t have one on, to Ohio State,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “I thought obviously their outside hitters played phenomenally.” 
The Irish (20-10) were not without a few bright spots in the loss despite getting swept. 
Sophomore Jeni Houser was especially effective for Notre Dame as she finished with a team-leading 16 kills with a .382 hitting percent­age for the match. 
Senior outside hitter Mari Hole led the Ohio State of­fensive effort. Hole came into the game with a team-leading 331 kills and a 4.36 kills per set ratio and did not disappoint. She recorded 14 kills and had a .400 hitting percentage for the match. 
Brown said the Irish were 

SMC SWIMMING | CAlvIN WINTER INvITATIONAl 
simply unable to stop the Ohio State attack. Although she said some of its suc­cess could be attributed to Notre Dame’s ineffective­ness, the Buckeyes’ skill was undeniable. 
“I don’t know that they’ve had quite that big a night be­cause we were really ineffec­tive, but obviously they mix up their shots,” Brown said. “They’re very, very aggres­sive, they take big approach­es, good arm swings, they can hit well off the outside hand and they hit the seam. 
“like I said they have all the shots, so it’s not like you just have to take one shot away and then you can stop them. They did a good job of mixing up their shots, and we were ineffective with our blocking defense against them.” 
Despite the loss, Houser did not characterize this season as a disappointment. This season marked the first time since 2009 that Notre Dame recorded 20 wins and made it to the NCAA tournament. 
“I wanted to come in and put years on the banner and bring in new banners for the NCAA tournament every year,” Houser said. “I think next year’s goal is to get deeper in the tournament ev­ery year.” 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


Belles close out fall season 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
After three days of competi­tion, the Belles finished 11th at the Calvin Winter Invitational in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
The invitational was the second nonconference invita­
“This was a great way to cap off the first half of the season for the girls.” 
Mark Benishek 
Saint Mary’s coach 

tional and last event of the fall season for Saint Mary’s. 
“This was a great way to cap off the first half of the season for the girls,” Belles coach Mark Benishek said. “To go to a big meet like this and com­pete on a high level, I think is great motivation to go into the second half and starting training hard again for our conference championships.” 
The invitational spanned three days with preliminary competitions each morning followed by finals in the eve­ning. On Friday, the Belles re­ceived their best finish from senior Ellie Watson with her season-best 400 IM time of 
4:54.81. Senior liz litke placed highest for Saint Mary’s on Saturday, finishing 21st in the 200 breaststroke. 
“They’re preliminaries and finals that you swim each day and the top 24 qualify for the evening,” Benishek said. “We had girls swimming in the fi­nals everyday. That was defi­nitely great to see, and that’s what you’re shooting for.” 
The Belles performed their best in the freestyle events over the weekend, with a 16th­place finish in the 200 free­style relay and solid swims from each of their 50 freestyle swimmers. 
“A bunch of our freestylers did quite well,” Benishek said. “[Sophomore] Anna Nolan, our sprinter, had some great time drops as well as [sopho­more] Sarah Thompson. She had some great swims there on the end of the medley relay.” 
Saint Mary’s also competed on the diving, boards with lone freshman diver Andrea Canacci finishing 23rd in the one-meter diving event.
 “It was kind of her first time diving as a freshman in an in­vite, especially against some of the top divers in the nation for Division III. I think was a great meet for her as well,” Benishek said. 
The Belles will have a one-month break before compet­ing on Jan. 5 in the Citrus Classic in Mesa, Ariz. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

MEN’S SWIMMING | HAWKEyE INvITATIONAl 
Irish take second in Iowa 

Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame capped a suc­cessful fall season with a second-place finish Sunday at the Hawkeye Invitational at the University of Iowa Aquatic Center. 
The No. 19 Irish finished the three-day weekend meet with 794 points. They finished second-best to No. 1-ranked Michigan, who scored 1150 
Superior 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
I think both were tonight.” 
Russo again was the catalyst for the third goal. Russo received the puck at the blue line from ju­nior center T.J. Tynan and took a wrist shot at the net. Junior right winger Mike voran was posted in front of the net and deflected the shot in over Murdock’s shoulder. 
The lakers battled back and scored late in the second period and hounded to get the equalizer in the third, but junior goalten­der Steven Summerhays came up with some clutch saves. With three minutes left, Summerhays made a sprawling stick save to his left in order to keep Notre Dame’s one goal lead and the win. 
“It wasn’t his best perfor­mance,” Jackson said. “A year ago I might have pulled him, but not now. He’s got to learn how to play these kinds of games and fight through it, and he did and he made some big plays in the third.” 
The Irish did not let lake Superior State have a chance in the game Saturday, as the Irish scored four goals in the first pe­riod on their way to a 6-1 win. 
lucia, in his sixth game back from an injury, tallied two goals, adding to Notre Dame’s recent burst in offense. In the last six games, the Irish have scored 22 times with a 5-1 record. 
“It’s a collective effort,” Jackson 

Sophomore swimmer John Williamson also registered an NCAA B-cut, swimming a season-best 1:46.90 in the 200-yard butterfly final, earning a third place finish in the event. 
Junior All-American Frank Dyer swam a season-best 
44.06 in the 100 yard-freestyle. 
The Irish will return to action Jan. 18 at Cleveland State. 
BCS 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
Georgia to climb back into the national championship picture. 
The Crimson Tide boast two 1,000-yard rushers in junior running back Eddie lacy and freshman running back T.J. yeldon. lacy and yeldon both had more than 150 yards in the SEC championship. 
Junior linebacker C.J. Mosley leads the Crimson Tide in tackles (99 tackles) while sophomore linebacker Adrian Hubbard paces Alabama with six sacks. 
Senior running backs Theo Riddick and Cierre Wood lead the Irish offense on the ground with 880 yards and 740 yards, respectively. Senior linebacker Manti Te’o is third in the country with seven interceptions. 
Notre Dame and Alabama will play for the national championship Jan. 7 at Sun life Stadium in Miami at 8:30 p.m. 

PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
points. 
The Irish finished ahead of Iowa (606.5 points), Denver (478 points) and Wisconsin-Milwalkee (260.5 points). 
Sophomore swimmer Zachary Stephens claimed two NCAA B-cut times on the weekend, swimming the 200­yard breast stroke in a season best 1:58.26 and swimming a time of 55.21 in the 100-yard breast stroke. 
said. “We are doing a good job transitioning, creating offense from defense and our power play has been gaining steam. When lucia came back and Costello got healthy, I think that helped us. It solidified some offensive type of lines.” 
Junior Defenseman Shayne Taker earned three assists in the game. Junior defenseman Stephen Johns and Russo lead the Irish in assists with seven and eight assists, respectively. 
“We encourage [the defense-men] to be offensive,” Jackson said. “I didn’t think Shayne [Taker] played a great game [Friday] and I talked to him about it but he came back and respond­ed in a positive way.” 
Senior goaltender Mike Johnson got the start Saturday, but was unable to finish the game as he was taken out on a charging penalty in the second period and was unable to continue. Johnson amassed 13 saves and a shutout. lake Superior State’s goalie, ju­nior Kevin Kapalka, was replaced by Murdock after giving up four goals in the first period. After the game, Jackson said Johnson should be fine and able to return. 
The Irish look to get their sec­ond home sweep of the season against Michigan State in a two-game series Friday and Saturday at the Compton Family Ice Arena. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 




ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING | HAWKEyE INvITATIONAl 
Irish swimmers take fifth at Hawkeye Invite 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Though the Irish separated their swimmers and divers for the weekend, Notre Dame swimmers smashed several re­cords and took fifth at the Ohio State Invitational while the div­ers swept the one-meter dive at the Hawkeye Invitational. 
The weekend started out with a bang as sophomore Emma Reaney took down her own school record in the 200­yard individual medley with a time of 1.55.05. This time qualifies Reaney for the NCAA championships in March and is the fastest time in the coun­try so far this season. 
Shortly after, Reaney joined senior captain Kim Holden, junior Kelly Ryan and fresh­man Catherine Galletti broke the school record in the 400­yard medley relay by over half a second. 
Ryan said the best part of the weekend was watching the team come together and support one another as Notre Dame matched up against the competition. 
“There were very fast teams there,” Ryan said. “It was great to race against the best in the country. Racing with these girls will help us to up our game in training and racing as the end of the season approaches.” 
On day two of the Ohio State Invitational, records contin­ued to fall. Reaney claimed victory and the Notre Dame record in the 400-yard individ­ual medley and the 100-yard breaststroke to round out her weekend. In addition to her medley relay victory, Holden broke the record in the 100­yard butterfly, which qualifies her for the B-cut in the NCAA championships. 
On the final day of compe­tition, Reaney won the 200­yard breaststroke with a time of 2.07.60, breaking the meet record. 
Ryan said having such a suc­cessful end of the season bodes well for the spring season. 
“The fall season has been very good for us,” Ryan said. “We have been redefining what is considered good as a team and continually getting bet­ter. We are very focused and I know that we will continue the momentum.” 



At the Hawkeye Invitational, senior Jenny Chiang and soph­omore Allison Casareto fin­ished first and second in the one-meter dive, with fresh­man Emma Gaboury com­ing in close behind in fourth place. 
Chiang claimed victory in the 3-meter dive as well with a final score of 341.70, 13 points above her nearest competitor. 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
Gaboury finished seventh the 3-meter. 
Other notable performances over the weekend included ju­nior Christen McDonough’s fourth place-finish in the 100­yard breaststroke. Her time qualified her for the NCAA B-cut, as did junior lauren Stauder’s seventh-place fin­ish in the same event. Holden finished third in the 100-yard backstroke, with Ryan finish­ing just over a second behind in seventh place. 
These events concluded the fall season for the Irish, who will be back in action Jan. 11 when they take on Michigan and Northwestern at Notre Dame’s Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 


Alabama 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
Tide and Notre Dame have each won eight Associated Press na­tional titles, more than any other school. 
“This group has been fan­tastic,” Saban said. “They were able to accomplish something of significance, and something that last year’s team didn’t ac­complish, which is win the SEC championship.” 
What a game it was. 
After an apparent game-clinching interception by Alabama was overturned on a video review, Georgia’s Aaron Murray completed a 15-yard pass to Arthur lynch, a 23-yarder to Tavarres King and a 26-yarder to lynch, who was hauled down at the Alabama 8 as the clock con­tinued to run. 
The Bulldogs (11-2) were out of timeouts. 
Instead of spiking the ball and gathering themselves, the Bulldog hurriedly snapped the ball with 9 seconds to go. Murray attempted a pass into the end zone but it was deflected at the line and ended in the arms of Chris Conley out in the right flats. 
Surprised to see the ball com­ing his way, he instinctively dove for the catch at the 5. 
Georgia couldn’t get off anoth­er play. 
Richt said the offense called the play it wanted at the end, a deeper route to Malcolm Mitchell, but Alabama ruined it by tipping the pass. If it had fall­en incomplete instead of being caught by Conley, the Bulldogs would’ve had at least one more play, maybe two. 
Instead, they were done. 
“I told the guys I was disap­pointed, but I’m not disappoint­ed in them,” Richt said. “They’re warriors. We had a chance at the end.” 
The consolation prize will likely be one of the second-tier bowls — the Capital One, Cotton or Chick-fil-A — though the Bulldogs certainly looked like a team deserving of something better. 
“Do I think we’re worthy of a BCS bowl?” Richt said. “yes I do.” 
The Bulldogs even got props from Saban. 
“It would be a crying shame ifGeorgiadoesn’t get to goto a BCS bowl game,” the Alabama coach said. “They played a tremendous game out there. That was a great football game, by both teams. It came right down to the last play.” 
In a back-and-forth second half that looked nothing like a game in the defensive-minded SEC, the Crimson Tide trailed 21-10 after Alec Ogletree returned a blocked field goal for a touchdown in the third quarter. 
Alabama rallied behind a punishing run game, finishing with 350 yards on the ground, an SEC championship game re­cord. Eddie lacy — the game’s MvP — rumbled for 181 yards on 20 carries, including two TDs. Freshman T.J. yeldon added 153 yards on 25 carries, also scoring a TD. 
After the game, lacy hooked up with the guy he replaced in the Alabama backfield — Heisman Trophy winner Mark Ingram, now with the NFl’s New Orleans Saints. 
“He just told me congratula­tions and that I did a great job running and it was it was the best he’s ever seen me run.” lacy said. 
But the Tide won it through the air. 
With Georgia stacking the line, McCarron fooled the Bulldogs with play action and delivered a perfectly thrown pass to Cooper, who beat Damian Swann in sin­gle coverage down the left side. 
Georgia played like a cham­pion until the clock ran out, though. 
Using up their timeouts and forcing a punt, the Bulldogs got the ball back at their 15 with 
1:08 remaining. Alabama broke into a celebration when a pass down the middle for Conley was deflected and Dee Milliner ap­peared to make a diving inter­ception. But the replay showed the ball hit the ground, so Murray and the Georgia offense trotted back on the field for its last gasp. 

And what a gasp it was. 
Just not quite enough. 

Todd Gurley led Georgia with 122 yards rushing, including a couple of TDs. Murray was 18 of 33 for 265 yards with one touch­down and one interception. 
McCarron was 12 of 21 for 162 yards with an interception, only his third of the season. 
After a defensive struggle in the first half, with Alabama kicking a field goal on the final play for a 10-7 lead, the last two quarters were nothing but run-and-gun. 
The Bulldogs took the second-half kickoff and marched right down the field for the go-ahead touchdown. Gurley ran it seven times, capped by leg-churning, 3-yard drive up the middle to make it 14-10. 
Alabama looked like it was about to answer, holding the ball for more than 5 1-2 minutes, be­fore the drive stalled. Cade Foster came on for a 50-yard field-goal attempt, but his low kick was swatted down by Cornelius Washington. Ogletree scooped up the bouncing ball in stride and returned it 55 yards for a touchdown. 
Suddenly, the Bulldogs led 21-10. 
But the Tide wasn’t about to go away that easy. yeldon broke off a 31-yard run, Swann was called interference on a throw down the middle, and yeldon powered in from the 10. He ran it again for the 2-point conversion, pulling Alabama to 21-18. 
Georgia went three-and-out, and the ground assault resumed. lacy barreled over right guard for 32 yards. yeldon got it down to the 1. lacy returned for the first snap of the fourth period, bulling over to put Alabama ahead 25-21. 
The Tide’s momentum lasted about 2 minutes. 
Murray found King down the middle for a 45-yard comple­tion and Gurley finished off the lightning-quick possession with a 10-yard touchdown run up the middle, putting Georgia back on 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
top, 28-25. 
But Alabama knows a thing or two about comebacks, having re­bounded the last two years from regular-season losses. 
Just three weeks ago, the Tide was upset at home by Johnny Manziel and Texas A&M. 
Now, Bama is off to play for an­other title. 
“It’s just the never-give-up at­titude,” McCarron said. “you’ve got to keep fighting through it.”won eight Associated Press na­tional titles, more than any other school. 




CROSSWORD | WIll SHORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 

LOWER YOUREXPECTATIONS|lENNyRAGO& PATRICKCROSS 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA lAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Britney Spears, 31; Nelly Furtado, 34; Rena Sofer, 44; lucy liu, 44. 
Happy Birthday: Think matters through before divulging your plans. There is money to be made if you take what you have to offer and give it a twist that fits the current economic trend. Dealing with institutions, agencies or authority figures regarding something you want to pursue will result in being given the opportunity to proceed. your numbers are 3, 10, 18, 20, 35, 44, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Being serious-minded and intent on getting things done will help alleviate stress. The change you make within will set the stage for future gains. you may not agree with what everyone else does and says, but being diplo­matic will win points. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Being a participant will be entertaining and invigorating. What you do at home as well as what you offer the people you love will determine how much help you receive. Set your sights high and you’ll win favors. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): When someone gives you something, question what’s expected in return. you have to be smart or you may end up owing favors that go against your better judgment. Proceed with caution and pay close attention to what everyone else does. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Follow your heart. Don’t be afraid to try something dif­ferent or to spend time with someone from a totally different background from you. The experience and what you learn will make you a better person and lead to a great opportunity. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Protect what’s yours. Not everyone will share your concerns. Divvy up what you share with others so you can move on at your own speed. Now is not the time to argue or to take a backseat. Do what’s best for you. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Witness what’s unfolding. The wait may have been a long one, but the rewards will be worthwhile. Interacting with people who share your interests will make contributions that will enable you to reach your goals. love is in the stars. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Reach out to old friends or co-workers and share a little fes­tive cheer. Finding out what others are doing and showing interest will position you well for a potential project that is right up your alley. Don’t let domestic issues ruin your fun. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Plan a trip or engage in a pastime that allows you to use your creative input. Take a serious approach to love, life and your future happiness. A special plan you have can be executed brilliantly and bring rewards that exceed your expectations. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put your energy, hope and trust on the line. Change will be necessary if you want to improve the way you live. Be adventuresome and you will meet someone who wants to share the experience with you in your personal or professional life. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Follow your gut feeling. you can enhance your repu­tation if you share your thoughts and plans. Don’t let an emotional matter escalate because you fear the outcome. It’s better to put any negativity behind you instead of letting it fester. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):you can’t win if you are unreasonable. Reassess your situation. Cut your losses and move on if there is no alternative. Keeping your home base tranquil will be what makes a difference to your emotional wellness. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Show your entrepreneurial spirit and head in a direction that looks promising personally and professionally. Include a loved one or someone you find creative and inspiring and you will double your chance of being successful. 

Birthday Baby: you are sensitive, impulsive and unique. you are possessive, intuitive and kind. 
JUMBLE | DAvID HOyT AND JEFF KNUREK 


Make checks payable to and mail to: Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  



BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP 
It’s official 
Irish to face Alabama in BCS National Championship in Miami on Jan. 7 

The release of the final Bowl Championship Series (BCS) standings confirmed what was expected ¬— No. 1 Notre Dame and No. 2 Alabama will face off for the national title Jan. 7 in Miami. 
The Irish (12-0) remained in the top spot for the third con­secutive week and the Crimson Tide (12-1, 7-1 SEC) secured their place by defeating then-No. 3 Georgia 32-28 for the SEC crown. 
Alabama has been a staple in the national championship. Its matchup with Notre Dame will be its third trip to the title game in the last four seasons. The Crimson Tide won the title both last year and in 2009 and are 48-5 in the last four seasons. 
“Alabama has been the benchmark for college foot­ball,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “We’re aware of the chal­lenge in front of us. We wel­come it.” 
Notre Dame, meanwhile, will be chasing its first nation­al championship since 1988, when lou Holtz led the Irish to an undefeated season. 
The defense leads both of these teams. Alabama’s unit ranks first in the nation in rushing defense (79.8 yards per game) and total defense (246.0 yards per game), second in scoring defense (10.7 points per game) and eighth in pass effi­ciency defense (101.56). 
Notre Dame also ranks in the top 10 in multiple defensive categories. The Irish are first in scoring defense (10.3 points per game), fourth in rushing defense (92.4 yards per game) and sixth in total defense (286.8 yards per game). 
Notre Dame has faced Alabama just six times and not since 1987. The Irish are 5-1 against the Crimson Tide. 
“We have a special respect for Notre Dame,” Crimson Tide coach Nick Saban said. “This is a really good team and a great matchup.” 
Alabama’s lone blemish this season was its 29-24 loss to Texas A&M on Nov. 10. The Aggies rolled up 418 yards of to­tal offense, including 165 on the ground. The Crimson Tide won their final three games against Western Carolina, Auburn and 
see BCS PAGE 12 

NCAA FOOTBALL | AlABAMA 32, GEORGIA 28 
Tide rolls into title game against ND 
Associated Press 

ATlANTA — Alabama got a hand on the ball, which wobbled into the arms of a Georgia receiv­er who wasn’t supposed to catch it. 
Before the Bulldogs could get off another play, the clock ran out. 
The Crimson Tide is heading back to the national champion­ship game. 
By a mere 5 yards. 
AJ McCarron threw a 45-yard touchdown pass to Amari Cooper with 3:15 remaining and No. 2 Alabama barely held on at the end, beating No. 3 Georgia 32-28 in a Southeastern Conference title game for the ages Saturday night. 
“I’m ready to have a heart at­tack here,” Crimson Tide coach Nick Saban said. 
As confetti fell from the Georgia Dome roof, the Bulldogs collapsed on the field, stunned they had come so close to knocking off the team that has won two of the last three national titles. 
“We just ran out of time,” Georgia coach Mark Richt moaned. 
Alabama (12-1) will get a chance to make it three out of four when it faces top-ranked Notre Dame for the BCS crown on Jan. 7 in Miami. 
This time, Alabama will head to the big game with a champi­onship already in its pocket — unlike last year’s squad, which didn’t even make it to Atlanta, but got a do-over against SEC champion lSU in the national title game. 
Even though the Tide left little doubt it was truly the best team in the country, routing the Tigers 21-0, there were plenty who thought Saban’s team didn’t de­serve a rematch. 
There will be no complaints when Alabama heads to South Florida for a dream matchup be­tween two of college football’s most storied programs. The 
see AlABAMA PAGE 14 


OE KENESEY | The Observer 

Irish senior linebacker Manti Te’o and his teammates watch the BCS selection show in the Guglielmo Athletics Complex.Te’o and the Irish will face Alabama in the BCS National Championship game on Jan.7 in Miami. 
HOCKEY | ND 3, lSSU 2; ND 6, lSSU 1 
Superior Irish sweep Lakers 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 

The No. 6 Irish captured their first home sweep of the season against lake Superior State by holding on to a one-goal lead to win 3-2 on Friday and dominat­ing Saturday’s game with 6-1 victory. 
The first goal Friday night was junior captain and center Anders lee’s 50th career goal. Junior left winger Jeff Costello put the puck behind the net, where junior right winger Bryan Rust gathered the puck. Rust was able to fight off defend­ers and place the puck to lee, who took a one-time shot past laker junior goaltender Kevin Murdock. 
“That’s his bread-and-butter,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “He got the puck in the high slot and I couldn’t ask for a better guy to be there in that situation and he gets them in different ways. He has great hands in front of the net. I’m happy for him. It’s great for him.” 
Meanwhile, lee pushed the credit onto his teammates. 
“[This milestone] means that I’ve been fortunate enough to have incredible teammates this whole ride,” lee said.” 
Notre Dame (11-4, 7-1 CCHA) jumped out to a quick two-goal lead, when they scored a power play goal 35 seconds into the second period. Sophomore de­fenseman Robbie Russo ripped a slap shot that rang off the crossbar and rebounded right to freshman left winger Mario lucia, who put in the wide-open right side. After conceding a goal to the lakers (7-9, 4-6) to make it 2-1, the Irish got another power play goal in the eighth minute of the second period. 

“yeah we blew [the power play] up,” Jackson said. “We got some different personnel on it. I wish we had got one more with that four on three in the third, but it was good to see a little production. I think that the one thing we identified is that we were operating with one unit that was generating scoring opportunities. So basically we were wasting a minute of every power-play and we needed an­other group to be effective, and 
see SUPERIOR PAGE 12 






