
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


O’Brien to speak for graduates 
Observer Staff Report 
Senior Michael J. O’Brien has been named valedictorian of the 2012 Notre Dame graduating class and will pres­ent the vale­dictory address du ring the May 20 Com­mence ­ment ceremony, the University announced in a press re­lease Friday. 
O’Brien, a political science major and phi­losophy minor from St. Charles, Ill., will gradu­ate with a 4.0 grade point average and will also be awarded an Internation­al Business Certificate from the Mendoza Col­lege of Business. 
O’Brien is editor-in­chief of “Beyond Politics: Undergraduate Journal of Politics,” and serves as president of the Notre Dame College Democrats and vice president of service 

see SPEAKER/page 4 



“Everything but equality” 
Gay professors speak out to support student work towards inclusion 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
Senior News Writer 
The rising call for the ex­pansion of rights for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) students, faculty and staff hit a speed bump last week when the Uni­versity announced it would not add sexual orientation to its nondiscrimination clause. 
In a press release, Notre Dame stated it would not change the wording of the nondiscrimi­nation clause, but would take other steps to help LGBTQ in­dividuals feel more included on campus. 
However, three gay professors who shared their stories with The Observer said the Univer­sity’s latest step toward inclu­sion was not enough. They say the administration’s current nondiscrimination policy sends a clear message to LGBTQ stu­dents, faculty and staff — they are second-class citizens, and there is reason to be afraid. 
It was because of this mes­sage that one professor asked 



St. Edward’s to keep lofts temporarily 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
After sparking protest from residents and alumni of St. Ed­ward’s Hall, the Office of Hous­ing decided last week to reverse its plan to gradually introduce modular furniture in the dorm, originally set to begin this fall. 
Jeff Shoup, director of the Of­fice of Housing, said the origi­nal plan was to replace the ex­isting furniture class by class. 

“Our plan had been that we would have put modular furni­ture in all of the rooms where there were going to be fresh­men next year,” Shoup said. “The next year, all the rooms where there were going to be freshmen and sophomores would get modular furniture, tion and residents were blind-Soler said. “They went about and so on and so forth.” sided by the proposed change. it completely disregarding the 
Sophomore Frank Soler, pres-“[The Office of Housing] nev-students’ perspective.” ident of St. Edward’s Hall, said er explained it to us, and they building lofts is a dorm tradi-never asked our opinion on it,” see LOFTS /page 4 not to be recorded during The Observer’s interview. In addi­tion, these professors said this same message has caused other LGBTQ professors to leave the University and stopped some prospective students from en­rolling. 

However, these professors, who have collectively been teaching at the University for nearly 70 years, were willing to share their experiences in light of the student body’s re 


see RIGHTS/page 4 


Ex-worker sentenced to probation 
Observer Staff Report 
A former University em­ployee in Notre Dame’s Of­fice of the Registrar who pled guilty to four counts of voyeurism will serve no time in prison, a judge ordered last week. 
Don G. Steinke, 59, ap­peared in St. Joseph County Superior Court with his at­torney, Mike Tuszynski, on April 26. Judge Jerome Frese sentenced Steinke to four years on probation and ordered him to complete 20 hours of volunteer work un­til he finds employment, ac­cording to court documents. 
Steinke was arrested March 7, 2011 after a woman found a pen camera aimed at the toilet on the floor of a women’s bathroom in Grace Hall. The pen camera was turned over to Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP), ac­cording to court documents. Steinke allegedly admitted to placing the camera in the women’s restroom with the intent to retrieve the camera and download the recorded video content. 
Frese also reduced Stein­ke’s charges of four Class D felony counts of voyeur 

see STEINKE/page 4 


Theater professor named Sheedy Award recipient 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 

Last week, the College of Arts and Letters named the­ater professor Peter Holland the recipient of the 2012 Sheedy Ex­cellence in Tea ch i ng Award. 
Holland will be formally presented with the award at a Dec. 5 ceremony. Last year’s Sheedy Award winner, history professor Thomas F.X. Noble, will intro­duce Holland, who will then deliver a brief reflection on his pedagogy. 

The award, named for former dean Fr. Charles E. Sheedy, is the most presti­gious faculty honor in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters. Since 1970, it has been given to one professor each year who “has sustained excellence in re­search and instruction over a wide range of courses,” ac­cording to the Arts and Let­ters website. 
“It recognizes what’s unique about Notre Dame and Arts and Letters in that it com­bines the best of a liberal arts college with the best of a re­search university,” associate dean JoAnn Del 

see HOLLAND/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Campus gets ‘Muddy’ page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Vanessa Carlton performs at Legends page 10 u Men’s lacrosse beats Syracuse page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Monday, April 30, 2012 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE ANTOSTAL EVENT? 



www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak 


Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin News Editor: John Cameron 
Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 


Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. 

Joe Vanderberg  Mik Mulhall  Steve Conway  Brian Dunlap  Margaret Bellon  Thomas Corr  
junior Duncan  senior off campus  junior Stanford  junior Duncan  junior Badin  junior Dillon  
“I don’t know what AnTostal  “When is it?”  “Where is it?”  “Do you mean PigTostal?”  “Badin Breakdown.”  “Fisher Regatta.”  
is.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Women is pregnant with nine children 
MEXICO CITY — A Mexi­can woman is pregnant with nine babies - six girls and three boys - the country’s main broadcaster Televisa reported on Thursday night. 
The woman was identi­fied as Karla Vanessa Perez of the northeastern state of Coahuila, which borders Texas. She is currently be­ing treated at a hospital in the state capital Saltillo, the broadcaster said. 
Perez, whose age was not given, had fertility treat­ment leading to the multiple pregnancy, it said. 
State-owned news agency Notimex also reported the pregnancy, saying Perez was due to give birth on May 20. 
It’s very early to think of names for the babies,” Perez told Notimex. “First I hope that everything goes well.” 
The successful delivery of nonuplets would be one of the highest multiple births ever recorded. 
In 2009, a woman in Cali­fornia gave birth to octu­plets, sparking worldwide media attention. 
Police tranquilize bear stuck in tree 
BOULDER, Co. — In a truly memorable moment, a bear can be seen falling from a tree after being tranquilized by police in Colorado. 
The young bear, estimated to weigh between 150 and 200 pounds, had wandered onto the University of Colo­rado at Boulder campus and climbed into a tree, accord­ing to the CU Independent, which captured the stun­ning image. 
“[The bear] was tranquil­ized by the Colorado Parks and Wildlife Department and it fell onto some mats that the Rec Center provid­ed,” CU Police Department spokesman Ryan Huff told the paper. “It is now in a cage and it will be relocated at a higher elevation.” 
Before it was tranquilized, the bear two hours near the campus dorms. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The Center for Research on Educational Opportu­nity is sponsoring a seminar titled “Scared Sleepless: Schooling in the Age of Ac­countability”. The seminar is today from 3 to 4:30 p.m. in the Remick Commons of Carole Sandner Hall. 
The Department of Ap­plied and Computational Mathematics and Statis­tic is hosting a colloquium titled “The Benjamin-Ono Equation in the Zero-Dis­persion Limit”. Peter Miller from the University of Michi­gan will be presenting at the lecture today at 4 p.m. in Hayes-Healy Center. 
Friends of the Orphans is sponsoring a blood drive to­morrow from 12 to 6 p.m. in the Stepan Center. 
Kelly McMann, associate professor of political science at Case Western Reserve University, will be present­ing a lecture titled “Outside Capitals: Measuring and Explaning Subnational De­mocracy”. The lecture is tomorrow in room C103 of the Hesburgh Center from 
12:30 to 1:30 p.m. 
The Notre Dame varsity softball team squares off against Northern Illinois tomorrow at 5 p.m in Me­lissa Cook Stadium. Tickets are $5 for adults and $3 for youth and seniors. 
The Notre Dame varsity baseball team squares off with Butler tomorrow at 

5:35 p.m. in the Eck Base­ball Stadium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Kristen Durbin Nicole Michels Kaitlyn Rabach 

Graphics 
Dan Azic 

Photo 
Grant Tobin 

Sports 
Joe Wirth Brian Hartnett Sam Gans 

Scene 
Maria Fernandez 

Viewpoint 
Meghan 
Thomassen 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 











CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
HIGH 59 LOW 49 
HIGH 75 LOW 61 
HIGH 84 LOW 64 

HIGH 82 LOW 63 
HIGH 75 LOW 52 

Monday, April 30, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Students get muddy for charity 
By AMY KLOPFENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Hundreds of students got down and dirty during Muddy Sunday, Keenan Hall’s signa­ture mud volleyball tourna­ment, at White Fields in sup­port of Habitat for Humanity. 
Keenan president Dennis Smith said the eighth annu­al tournament raised nearly $12,000 for Habitat for Human­ity and featured 180 teams of eight to ten players, the most in the history of the event.How­ever, Smith said the change in venue presented a challenge for the tournament. In previ­ous years, the tournament took place behind St. Mary’s Lake, but Keenan was asked to hold the tournament in a different location, as it took a significant toll on the fields near the lake. 
Teams competed against each other in a round-robin tour­nament, with the undefeated teams advancing to the finals. 
Returning champions Pups ‘n Suds won the tournament again this year and received Muddy Sunday tank tops as prizes. Sophomore Beth Meisinger, a member of Pups ‘n Suds, said she enjoyed the tournament’s combination of fun and philan­thropy. 
“It’s so much fun to play in the mud and support such a great cause,” she said. 
Pups ‘n Suds won six consec­utive games to win the champi­onship. Freshman Ashley Vese­lik said the championship and the post-game shower were the highlights of the tournament. 
Junior event organizer Tim Scott said he has been planning Muddy Sunday since the begin­ning of the school year and has been involved with the event since his freshman year. 
“My favorite part is just watching it all happen. Every­one is having so much fun,” Scott said. “It’s fun to just come out and watch and play in the mud.” 
Senior event organizer Mike Rodio also helped plan the event. 
“I love dorm events that ev­eryone gets involved in,” he said. 
Sophomore Caroline Thomp­son, captain of Team ‘Murica, said she enjoys the ‘muddy’ as­pect of the tournament. 
“My favorite part is getting [dirty]” she said. 
Scott said by advertising the tournament in the dining halls, it helped Keenan Hall spread the word about the tournament quickly throughout campus. He said he attributes the success of the tournament to one simple factor: fun. 
“It’s the [most fun] day of the year,” Scott said. 


After registration closed Fri­day night, Scott said he began creating brackets. Landscape Services tilled the fields and the Notre Dame Fire Department sprayed the fields to prepare the mud. 
The tournament does gener­ate some financial costs due to its size and scope, Scott said. Several nets broke during this year’s tournament, but the registration fees of two teams would cover the cost of replac­ing them. The other main cost of the tournament is re-seeding the fields with grass after the games. 
Smith said the event is a hec­tic one to run, but ultimately paid off. 
“The morning was one of the most hectic mornings we’ve ever had, but it’s looking better than ever now,” Smith said. 
Contact Amy Klopfenstein at aklopfen@nd.edu 




Regatta raises funds, fosters Fisher community 

By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
The smell of burgers, lyrics of “Call Me Maybe” and cries of “You Gotta Regatta” filled the air around St. Mary’s Lake on Saturday during the 26th annual Fisher Regatta. 
A team of 15 Fisher Hall resi­dents, led by juniors Patrick Bowlds, Matt Hart and Jeff Wang, organized this year’s Regatta, which promotes camaraderie among Fisher resi­dents and raises money for charity. 
Bowlds said the event raised more than $1,500 from entrance fees and sale of regatta tanks, all of which will be given to the André House of Hospitality in Phoenix, Arizona. 
The competition featured 45 boats, including six from Fisher, Hart said. Two Fisher boats finished among the final four boats in the men’s bracket. 
For the second year in a row, Knott Hall’s “Knacht Yott” took first place in the men’s bracket. Juniors Rob Ray, James Kaull and Jeff Ul­rich and seniors Hans Helland and Andrew Bell comprised the five-man crew during the final round. Another team member, freshman Alex Miram, filled in for Ray in the first round. 
Ray designed the boat, which con­sisted of a fiberglass canoe with an attached outrigger that was added after the canoe capsized in its first year of use. He said this year’s vic­tory validated the team’s success last year. 
“The victory feels pretty good. Last year was an iffy win, so it’s good to win two years in a row,” Ray said. 
“The Green Pearl” from Pang-born Hall won the women’s bracket, crewed by freshmen Kate Christian and Ingrid Adams and juniors Katie Buczek and Linda Scheiber. 
Adams said the team owed their victory to their hydrodynamically­designed boat. Buczek said speed was a major part of their design plan. 
“We knew we wanted a canoe, because we wanted to go fast, and canoes tend to be faster than rafts,” Buczek said. 
Several boats proved less than lakeworthy during the course of the Regatta. 
Dillon Hall’s aptly-named “Big Red Box” began to rock side-to-side early in its journey across the lake. When it became clear the boat was going to capsize, safety personnel brought their boat alongside the “Big Red Box” and junior Trevor Dorn hand­ed over his younger sister, Autumn Cavalieri, who was on board. 
Cavalieri said her brother sug­gested she join the crew of the “Big Red Box,” so her mother signed a waiver allowing her to participate. 
She said she was not scared by the rocking of the boat and enjoyed par­ticipating in the Regatta. 
“I liked the idea and I had a lot of fun doing it,” she said. 
The boat continued to sway after Cavalieri disembarked, and specta­tors cheered when it eventually cap­sized and the rowers were forced to swim ashore. 
Junior Kyle Buckley said the group overestimated the number of people their boat could support. 
“I want to say it was solidly built. It was the best dumpster we’ve ever built, but it just wasn’t built for 15 people,” Buckley said. “Next year when we’re seniors, we’ll build a box that will get across in style.” 
Another notable wreck was the largest boat in the competition: Fisher Hall’s “El Flota Part Deux,” a 16-by-8-foot raft, featuring two miniature basketball hoops that broke almost immediately after en­tering the water. 
Hart said three crewmembers salvaged a section of the boat from the debris and beat their competing boat, which had also broken down, in what became a swimming race to shore. 
Sophomore Stephen Elser said the experience was a memorable one. 
“As soon as we got in the wa­ter there were cracks in the boat. Ten feet from the shore it broke into pieces, and I found myself on a piece with a hoop. Then [junior] Pete [Bratton] and [senior] Stevie [Biddle] helped me swim it to shore and finish the race,” Elser said. “We beat the other boat, and it was the most fun I’ve had since the original ‘El Flota’ broke last year.” 
In addition to the boat races, spectators also enjoyed free food and music, which Hart said created a party-like atmosphere. 
“The area by the food and speak­ers was described by one ‘Fisher­man’ as an outdoor dorm party,” Hart said. “It was a good way to cel­ebrate the end of the year.” 
Hart said he was happy to see stu­dents from other dorms enjoying the boat races as well. 
“The Regatta is a celebration of Fisher, but it was also fun to see ev­eryone else having a blast out there on the lake,” he said. 
Despite the chilly weather, Wang said it did not prevent participants and spectators from enjoying the event. 
“I thought it was great that de­spite the weather not being warm and sunny people still showed up. The Regatta was still awe­some,” he said. 

Contact Christian Myers at        cmyers8@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Monday, April 30, 2012 
it was in the back of my mind. And that is very destructive.” Since Cannon Harris re-continued from page 1 ceived tenure in 2004, she has had to worry a bit less. cent push for expanded LG-She now feels safe telling her BTQ rights at Notre Dame. students she is a lesbian on 
In the words of one, “The the first day of the semester, students have got the cour-and is able to more openly age to sort of go and advo-discuss literature with gay cate for this stuff. We have content. to be willing to stand up and Still, the anxiety lingers, support them.” and Cannon Harris sim­
ply wants to be given equal 
*** rights by the University she 
has given so much to. 
In Susan Cannon Harris’ “I have been working here office in Decio Hall hangs for 13 years. It’s the only aca­a colorful drawing created demic job I’ve ever had,” she with a child’s scribbling en-said. “I have been very loyal thusiasm. To “mommy,” it to the institution … All the reads. Next to it is a photo other gay faculty here have of Cannon Harris and her done the same, and the staff 4-year-old — the daughter too. We deserve for the insti­she raises with her wife of tution to recognize that and nearly 24 years. treat us the way we deserve 
Cannon Harris is not hid-to be treated.” ing who she is. 
The English and Irish stud-*** ies professor is out to her colleagues in the English de-While Spanish profes­partment, her students and sor Carlos Jerez-Farrán has even University President Fr. never experienced overt John Jenkins. discrimination during his 

“I have not made any at-26 years teaching at Notre by a pre-modern institution from the University. In that is traditionally represented tempt to conceal it,” she said. Dame, he said there is a dif-that can make promising role, he said students would by the T in LGBTQ. 
Though she feels accepted ferent type of discrimination scholars and students think come to him in tears as they “They left out the ‘T’ on the by her colleagues and stu-here — one that is unseen, twice before coming to Notre struggled to come to grips LGBT, so where are they?” dents, Cannon Harris said the but equally destructive. Dame.” with their sexual orientation. Coleman said. “You’re not be­University’s official policies “The invisible discrimina-While Jerez-Farrán said he “I heard a story from a ing acknowledged as being a 


Rights 

— particularly the nondis-tion that tells people inau-does not discuss his own sex-young man whose mother whole person here.” crimination clause — make dibly and invisibly, ‘Don’t uality in the classroom, the told him if she had known While he said some steps it difficult to feel completely appear if you do not want to first course he offered after he had been gay, she would the University mentioned in comfortable as a lesbian fac-disappear,’” he said. “In oth-receiving tenure was one on have had an abortion,” Cole-the press release are impor­ulty member. er words, don’t make your-gay and lesbian literature. man said. “Even now, I kind tant, they do not change the 
“The fact that they refuse self too audible or too visible In other classes, he will of tear up when I think about fact that Notre Dame has not again and again to put [sexu-[or you will be silenced.]” teach a few texts and films that young man’s story.” given equal rights to LGBTQ al orientation] in the nondis-Jerez-Farrán said he felt by gay writers and directors It was around that time members of its community. crimination clause sends us this type of discrimination to show how art can stem that Coleman decided he “In light of this more recent the message that they want when he put up posters about from the gay experience. could not continue investing press release, it’s just a lot to preserve the option of dis-LGBTQ issues on his office “It is the most effective himself in a cause that was of florid language … I don’t criminating against employ-door, and later found they way to combat homophobia, met with such resistance really see much of a differ­ees based on sexual orienta-had been taken down. It can through education,” he said. from the administration. ence here, frankly,” he said. tion,” Cannon Harris said. “It also be felt by the Universi-“Ironically, it is one of the “Emotionally, I had to pull “If a person doesn’t feel com-is hard to feel as if we are ty’s unwillingness to promote components of the courses I myself back,” he said. “I be-fortable and have the same equal members of the com-LGBTQ research, he said. teach which often seems to came too depressed by the rights as everyone else, then munity.” While he has received be enjoyed most.” whole situation.” they are second-class citi-
While Cannon Harris was funding in recent years to Despite the challenges of However, Coleman has not zens. It’s as simple as that.” grateful that last week’s conduct research on LGBTQ teaching at a university that completely detached himself Coleman said he knows of press release recognized the issues, he said the University he considers quite closeted, from the issue and occa-students who turned down University’s need to improve is unlikely to promote it. Jerez-Farrán has stayed at sionally chooses to make his the University because of inclusion of LGBTQ individu-“You may publish a book on Notre Dame for a quarter of voice known. For example, its stance on LGBTQ issues. als, she said being “included” politics or music, and chanc-a century. He enjoys his stu-Coleman came out to Fr. Ed-While he is not aware of any and “tolerated” as members es are that it will be granted dents and with Chicago near-ward “Monk” Malloy when he faculty who were denied ten-of the Notre Dame commu-some recognition on the web by, he can take advantage of was University president. ure or fired because of their nity is not enough. page of the University,” he cultural opportunities. “I said, ‘You know, as one sexual orientation, Coleman 
“Those things are both dif-said. “I haven’t been featured “I prefer to be positive and of your gay faculty, I really has seen LGBTQ faculty leave ferent from having equality, by the University for my work look for the virtues and ad-must protest the way in which because they did not feel which is, you have rights and on LGBTQ issues for obvious vantages of a given institu-the administration views the comfortable. we cannot infringe them,” reasons. I don’t expect to be tion rather than its phobias,” GLBT issue here,’” Coleman “I know plenty of people she said. “I do wonder why either, no matter how inno-he said. “Homosexuality, af-said. “It was not easy to say who have upped and left,” they’re willing to give us ev-vating my research may be.” ter all, is a problem hetero-that … but I felt it was my re-he said. “Some people have erything but equality.” Jerez-Farrán said the Uni-sexuals have. We, gays, just sponsibility.” decided that this wasn’t the 
Cannon Harris said the ab-versity might not not pub-want to be left alone.” Coleman said Malloy was place for them.” sence of sexual orientation licize his books because it receptive to his point of view, While Coleman under-from the nondiscrimination considers them incompatible *** and he has never experi-stands the argument that clause has a psychological with Catholic values, but he enced any form of discrimi-adding sexual orientation to effect on LGBTQ faculty. said he could make the same While art history professor nation or harassment during the nondiscrimination clause 
For example, when coming argument about some scien-Robert Coleman’s own expe-his time at the University. He goes against Church teach-up for tenure, professors typ-tific research, such as that rience as a gay faculty mem-also said he has never felt ing, this has not stopped oth­ically ask themselves wheth-done in the radiation lab. ber has generally been posi-any limits on his academic er religious universities from er they have done enough re-However, Jerez-Farrán tive, he has watched LGBTQ freedom to discuss LGBTQ is-giving LGBTQ individuals search or met the standard said linking someone’s sex-students suffer during his 30 sues when appropriate in the equal rights, he said. in the classroom. uality with their academic years at the University. classroom. “We know of other Catholic 
“I, because of Notre Dame’s contribution seems like an “Coming here, I didn’t ex-However, he said the Uni-institutions in this country special situation, also had to outdated way of thinking. pect to find such a wall, bar-versity’s policy on LGBTQ where it’s not a problem, so ask the question, is all of that “As if what people chose rier,” he said. “One basically issues gives the impression why is it a problem here?” he going to matter? Are they go-to do with their genitals had lives quietly.” that Notre Dame does not said. “It makes you begin to ing to deny me tenure just anything to do with what In the mid-80s, Coleman embrace everyone equally. wonder who runs this place.” because I’m a lesbian?” she they chose to do with their served as an unofficial ad-For example, last week’s said. “Even though I mostly intellect,” he said. “It is this visor to a gay student group press release did not include Contact Sarah Mervosh at         didn’t think that they would, pre-modern attitude adopted seeking official recognition the term transgender, which smervosh@nd.edu 


Speaker 
continued from page 1 
for Notre Dame Circle K. 
He is also a fellow in Notre Dame’s National Security Pro­gram and has participated in small-group discussions with national security scholars and experts. 
Under the direction of po­litical science professor Se­bastian Rosato, O’Brien de­veloped an original theory on the influence of the structure of unipolar international sys­tems on the foreign policy be­havior of the unipolar state. He has also researched reli­gious freedom, regime com­position and Islamic political movements in Muslim-major­ity countries. 
This summer, O’Brien and Rosato will co-author an ar­ticle on the durability of U.S. primacy, which will be pub­lished by the Nobel Institute in Norway and an American 
journal of international rela­
tions.  
A  finalist  for  the  Rhodes  
Scholarship  and the  Gates  
Cambridge  Scholarship,  

O’Brien will enter the Uni­versity of Chicago Law School this far on a full-tuition merit scholarship. 
Senior Ashley K. Logsdon, a double major in biological sci­ence and theology from Pick­erington, Ohio, will give the Commencement invocation. She will graduate with a 3.99 grade point average. 




Who Can You Talk To About Sexual Violence?
    Do You Know? 
Your confidentiality may not be guaranteed by everyone you speak to. Contact GRC or speak to your rector for a list of confidential resources. 
page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Monday, April 30, 2012 


Holland 
continued from page 1 
laNeva said. “We expect pro­fessors to be excellent in both teaching and research, and our students are beneficiaries of that.” 
Holland, one of the world’s foremost authorities on Shakespeare in performance, 
was chosen to receive the award based on “extraor­dinary” nomi­nations from both students and faculty members that praised his engaged teaching style and informed scholarship, Della Neva said. 
“We had some wonder­ful letters of nominations for him that talked mov­

“It’s fun to teach Notre Dame students.  I get a deep pleasure every time I go to class, and my heart goes up on the way there. This is what I got into the profession to do.” 
Peter Holland Sheedy Award recipient 
ingly about him as a con­cerned professor who goes out of his way for his students, particularly the undergradu­ates,” she said. “We also had nominations from faculty working with him who were also really impressed by his truly exceptional undergradu­ate teaching.” 
In one nomination, a student praised Holland for channel­ing his passion into the class­room. 
“Holland continually stunned me and my friends with his knowledge and a contagious passion for Shake­speare,” the nomination stat­ed. “When describing him to students who haven’t taken a class with him, I always say, ‘He knows more about Shake­speare than Shakespeare did.’” 
Jim Collins, chair of the Department of Film, Televi­sion and Theatre and the 2010 Sheedy Award recipient, said Holland’s concern for the ideas of his students and his passion for Shakespeare create a de­cidedly unique classroom en­vironment. 
“What really makes Peter’s teaching so exceptional is not just his erudition. It’s how he 


Steinke 
continued from page 1 
ism to Class A misdemean­ors. He sentenced Steinke to one year in prison for each voyeurism count, but he suspended the sentences, meaning Steinke does not have to go to prison. 
As a condition of his pro­bation, Steinke was also or­dered to arrange for men­tal health evaluation and counseling, if deemed ap­propriate by a mental health agency, according to court documents. 

values student voices at the same time he shares his vast knowledge of Shakespeare,” Collins said. “Students find his classes mesmerizing because they know they’re generating new knowledge together. It’s that spontaneous combustion in the classroom … that makes the learning so exhilarating.” 
The College solicits nomina­tions for the award from the Arts and Letters community in February, DellaNeva said. 
ing of the award,” DellaNeva said. “It’s a very difficult pro­cess to name just one, and we would name five each year if we could. The people who aren’t named for the award 
this year will be reconsid­ered next year because they are such outstanding candidates.” 
DellaNeva said Holland’s breadth of teaching also set him apart from other candidates. 
“He also works very closely with some gradu­ate students,” she said. “His work with graduate and undergraduate Professors nominated by students and faculty are then considered by a com­mittee con­sisting of DellaNeva, three for­mer Sheedy Award win­ners and two under­graduate students. 
“All the nominees are out­sta ndi ng and deserv­

his outreach in bringing Shake­speare to the general public were all unique to his nomina­tion.” 
Holland, who served as direc­tor of the Shakespeare Institute at Stratford-upon-Avon before coming to Notre Dame in 2002, said teaching at the University has been a transformative ex­perience due to the high level of engagement of his students. 
“Before I came to Notre Dame, I was getting burned out as a teacher, but teaching here has revivified the experi­ence for me,” he said. “It’s fun to teach Notre Dame students. I get a deep pleasure every time I go to class, and my heart goes up on the way there. This is what I got into the profession to do.” 
His students also strengthen the relationship between his teaching and research, Holland said. 
“My teaching informs my re­search because smart students ask smart questions that push me to rethink what I’m doing and how I do it in my research,” he said. “My research informs my teaching because it is en­tirely on Shakespeare, which is what I spend my time teaching here.” 
Without engaged, curious students, professors cannot ex­ercise their full teaching poten­tial, Holland said. 
“You can be a good teacher with bad students, but I don’t think anyone would know about it,” he said. 
Although the pool of nomi­nees for the Sheedy Award was quite competitive, Holland said he thinks one intangible qual­ity gave him an advantage over 
“My teaching informs my research because smart students ask smart question that push me to rethink what I’m doing and how I do it in my research.” 
Peter Holland Sheedy Award recipient 
other nomi­nees. 
“I do have one built-in advantage over other faculty, which is that I can’t help the fact that I have a British ac­cent,” he said. 
Above all, Holland said he is thankful for the oppor­tunity to be a part of the Notre Dame community. 
“I really do feel lucky to 
 students and 
be working, teaching and re­searching at Notre Dame,” he said. “The accident that brought me here shows some kind of good luck and good fortune. It’s a pretty good place to be.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 




Lofts 
continued from page 1 
Soler said residents of the dorm began a petition as soon as they heard the news and obtained 90 signatures in one hour. The final peti­tion, sent to administrators in the Office of Housing, the Office of Residence Life and the Office of Student Affairs, boasted more than 200 sig­natures, he said. 
In addition, student body president Brett Rocheleau spoke to the Office of Hous­ing on behalf of the hall, Sol­er addressed the Hall Presi­dents’ Council and Student Senate discussed a resolu­tion supporting a reversal of the mandatory move to mod­ular furniture during last Wednesday’s meeting. 
Alumni of St. Edward’s Hall also flooded the Office of Housing with notes of disap­proval regarding the change, Soler said. 
In a letter sent to leaders of St. Edward’s Hall, Shoup stated the Office of Hous­ing is temporarily postpon­ing the transition to modular furniture in the dorm. 
“After receiving several letters, calls, e-mails and visits, we have decided to de­lay the purchase of modular furniture for St. Ed’s,” Shoup stated in the letter. “The hall will eventually receive new furniture, likely in the next five years.” 
He said St. Edward’s resi­dents would be involved in choosing appropriate modu­lar furniture when the time comes. 
“We are hopeful that when we are planning for this change to occur, student rep­resentatives will have the opportunity to be a part of the selection process of the furniture,” he stated in the letter. “We do anticipate, however, that it is likely that all the old student room fur­niture will be removed at one time, rather than in stages.” 
Soler said residents of the hall are grateful the Office of Housing listened to their concerns. 
“Allowing us to continue to have lofts, or at least have a hand in the conversation, is a big deal for the students because to take away a big part of your culture and have it be forcibly taken away, you feel like you’re being robbed of something,” he said. “Whereas if we have to make the change eventually and we can at least be part of the discussion, then it’s a whole different attitude toward the change.” 
Shoup said only seven dorms on campus lack modu­lar furniture, and all of these halls will eventually make the switch. 
“Furniture can only last so long, and … for example in [St. Edward’s Hall], I think that most of that furniture has been there since the [1981] fire … in the 1970s,” he said. “You have to have a replacement plan.” 
The Office of Housing will first focus on dorms that have both old and new furni­ture before addressing halls without modular furniture, Shoup said. 
“We still have … two or three halls that still have a little bit of old furniture in them,” he said. “So we’re go­ing to, for this summer, put on hold any one particular hall but try to catch up in the couple of halls that still need some new furniture, for ex­ample Dillon … and Farley.” 
In the remaining halls that still allow students to con­struct lofts, Shoup said the Office of Housing would more strictly enforce regulations on elevated beds for safety reasons. 
“We’re going to closely enforce the guidelines that have been there the whole time,” he said. “It’s all about safety.” 
Shoup said he has seen ele­vated beds that obstruct exit doors and sprinklers. Stu­dents whose lofts pose these types of safety issues will be asked to remove them, he said. 
Despite the crackdown on elevated bed regulations, Soler said residents are hap­py to retain their lofts, if only for a short time. 
“This is a great sign that there is a connection between the students and the admin­istration,” he said. “We’re re­ally thankful for them hear­ing us out.” 

Contact Tori Roeck at           vroeck@nd.edu 




Monday, April 30, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 
Tornado safe rooms rise in popularity 
Associated Press 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. — When deadly twisters chewed through the South and Mid­west in 2011, thousands of people in the killers’ paths had nowhere to hide. Now many of those families are taking an unusual extra step to be ready next time: add­ing tornado shelters to their homes. 
A year after the storms, sales of small residential shel­ters known as safe rooms are surging across much of the nation, especially in hard-hit communities such as Mont­gomery and Tuscaloosa in Alabama and in Joplin, Mo., where twisters laid waste to entire neighborhoods. 
Manufacturers can barely keep up with demand, and some states are offering grants and other financial incentives to help pay for the added pro­tection and peace of mind. 
Tom Cook didn’t need con­vincing. When a 2008 torna­do barreled toward his home in rural southwest Missouri, Cook, his wife and their teen­age daughter sought refuge in a bathroom. It wasn’t enough. His wife was killed. 
Cook moved to nearby Joplin to rebuild, never imaging he would confront another mon­ster twister. But he had a safe room installed in the garage just in case. 
On May 22, Cook and his daughter huddled inside the small steel enclosure while an EF-5 tornado roared outside. They emerged unharmed, al­though the new house was gone. 
“It was blown away com­pletely — again,” he said. “The only thing standing was that storm room.” 

Generations ago, homes across America’s Tornado Al­ley often came equipped with storm cellars, usually a small concrete bunker buried in the backyard. Although some of those remain, they are large­ly relics of a bygone era. And basements are less common than they used to be, leaving many people with no refuge except maybe a bathtub or a room deep inside the house. 
The renewed interest in shelters was stirred by last year’s staggering death toll 
— 358 killed in the South and 161 dead in Joplin. So far this year, more than 60 people have perished in U.S. twisters. 
Safe rooms feature thick steel walls and doors that can withstand winds up to 250 mph. They are typically win­dowless, with no light fixtures and no electricity — just a small, reinforced place to ride out the storm. Costs generally range from $3,500 to $6,000. 
Sizes vary, but most hold only a few people. They can be bolted to the floor of a garage or custom-fitted to squeeze into a small space, even a clos­et. Some are so small occu­pants have to crawl inside. A few are buried in the yard like the old storm shelters of the late 1800s and early 1900s. 
Before the twister dev­astated Joplin, the Neosho, Mo., safe room manufacturer called Twister Safe had four employees. Now it has 20. 
“Business has probably qua­drupled, at least,” owner Enos Davis said. “We’re selling 400 to 500 a year now, compared to maybe 100 before.” 
Twister Safe’s spike in busi­ness is even more impressive in Missouri, which does not offer grant money for safe rooms, opting to use its share of federal disaster money for community shelters. 
Missouri’s choice spotlights a debate in states seeking bet­ter tornado protection: Is di­saster aid better spent on safe rooms in individual homes or on larger public shelters de­signed to protect hundreds or thousands of people? 
The downside of public shelters is getting there. Even with improvements in twister prediction, venturing out into a rapidly brewing storm is perilous. 
“I wouldn’t get my family into a car and run that risk,” Joplin Assistant City Manager Sam Anselm said. “If you have the opportunity to put some­thing in your house, that’s what we would encourage folks to do.” 
In January, more than 50 people sought safety in a dome-shaped public shelter as a tornado ripped through Maplesville, Ala. No one was hurt. 
“The shelter did what it was supposed to do,” Mayor Au­brey Latham said. 
Since 2005, 31 community shelters have been built in Missouri using FEMA funds, and nine others are under construction, according to Mike O’Connell of the Mis­souri State Emergency Man­agement Agency. 
That number is about to grow. Joplin voters earlier this month approved a $62 million bond issue that will be combined with insur­ance money and federal aid to build storm shelters at ev­ery school. The shelters will double as gyms, classrooms or kitchens. 

Forces searching for Kony cause chaos in Uganda 


Associated Press 
ULU, Uganda — Adye Sun­day isn’t sure about the calls to kill or capture Lord’s Resis­tance Army leader Joseph Kony. Though the elusive warlord abducted her when she was 13 and forced her to be one of his dozens of “wives,” the 25-year­old says he’s also the father of her two children. 
“I don’t see Kony as a bad person,” she said in her native Acholi dialect through a trans­lator, as she mixed batter for va­nilla cupcakes to sell in Gulu’s market while her 3 1/2-year-old daughter Betty watched. “Ev­erything done in the bush is blamed on Kony, but to me he’s not a bad person.” 
Forces now hunting for Kony in the Central African Repub­lic, South Sudan and Congo are unlikely to find much sympathy for him as they might in Gulu in northern Uganda — 20 kilome­ters (some 12 miles)from where he was born — but some locals there have other concerns that complicate the military mis­sion. 
With more than 3,000 chil­dren abducted by the LRA since 2008, according to the U.N. and Human Rights Watch, families worry, for example, that troops hunting Kony will not be able to distinguish between the regu­lar LRA fighters and their ab­ducted children. 
“They will tell you they would really like Joseph Kony to be captured and maybe killed, and the LRA disbanded, but our children that are in the bush — how can they be separated from the rebels?” said Tatiana Vivi­ane, who works with a Central African Republic organization focused on helping the coun­try’s young people. 
They also fear reprisal at­tacks if they are thought to be helping the authorities find Kony — depriving military lead­ers of information that could be key to catching him. 
“My sense is that in this par­ticular mission, human intel­ligence is probably going to be the key,” said Gen. Carter Ham, who heads the U.S. military’s Africa Command, in a briefing in Stuttgart, Germany. “That goes a little bit back to ... how do you get confidence amongst the local populace so that they’re first of all willing, and second have the means to report to lo­cal authorities?” 
Kony inspires conflicted thoughts among some people in northern Uganda who re­member the early days of his insurgency, which started as a popular struggle against the southern-dominated govern­ment of President Yoweri Mu­seveni. 
Angelo Izama, who runs a Kampala-based think tank on regional security called Fanaka Kwawote, said Kony is a sympa­thetic figure among some Ugan­dans who see his rebellion as a valid response to the “perceived injustices against the north.” 
“Some people felt that he was a criminal and yet his criminal­ity was in the service of a differ­ent type of justice,” he said. 
The LRA has been out of northern Uganda since 2006 and is now terrorizing an area the size of California spanning the Central African Republic, South Sudan and Congo. 
Though numbering only be­tween an estimated 150 to 300 fighters — compared to several thousand in years past — LRA attacks in the Central African Republic and Congo have been on the rise in the first quarter of 2012, according to the U.N.’s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, with 53 attacks and 90 abductions of children and adults. None were reported in South Sudan. 
The guerrilla group takes boys to force into combat, and girls and young women like Sunday to serve as “wives” to Kony and others. 
Kony is known for his brutal tactics, like cutting the lips off women who sound the alarm that his forces are coming, and ordering abducted children to kill their parents or other rela­tives so that they are afraid to ever try to return home for fear they will be shunned. 
Sunday said she was taken from her bed by LRA fighters in the middle of the night, then spirited off to neighboring Con­go for 10 years. 
She said she had a son with Kony seven years ago. Betty was just a baby in 2010 when au­thorities in Congo attacked the LRA camp she was in. She was caught in the crossfire and shot in the leg as she went to grab the child. 
Left behind by the LRA, she and her two children were picked up by the troops that at­tacked the camp and brought back to Uganda. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, April 30, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Yoga pants 
As Walsh Hall apparel commission­er, I have a duty to ensure the Wild Women look good. 
As a lifelong fashionista, I wanted to create fall and spring collections of loungewear that were comfortable, collegiate and classy, not over­sized and obnox­ious. 
Staples of this fall’s order includ­ed a cardigan and a henley in clas­sic colors with simple designs, both of which I purchased myself and wear proudly around campus. 
But when it came to introducing new items for spring, both our rector and the dorm’s residents were vocal: they wanted yoga pants. 
Those who know me know I make it a point to dress up for class daily. I boast an eclectic wardrobe of varied styles, colors and patterns. 
But if there is one thing I will never wear, it’s yoga pants. 
Not to revive last year’s “Viewpoint­less” war, but yoga pants are glorified leggings. Just because they flare out at the bottom does not make them qualify as pants. Flare-legged pants have been out of style for years, so by that logic, it’s better to just wear leggings as pants, but by no means is it good. 
I found myself in a dilemma. I could refuse to order the yoga pants, stand firm in my beliefs and deprive the Wild Women of what they wanted, or I could cave and get the pants, ignore my personal principles and please the girls in my dorm. 
As a future lawyer, I have to get used to this war between career re­sponsibilities and inner convictions. Lawyers oftentimes have to choose between representing a questionable client and getting fired. 
Criminal defense lawyers in partic­ular must be at peace with knowing most of their clients are guilty, but as professionals, they’re required to do their best to procure the most favor­able sentence for them and guarantee justice prevails. 
At Notre Dame, we’re taught to fol­low our moral instincts and to up­hold our Catholic code of ethics at all costs. When our careers clash with these tenets, we must hold true to our beliefs no matter what. 
The Church claims it does not have a hierarchy of dogma, but when it comes to shaping personal ethics, a ranking of priorities is vital. 
A good, moral person shouldn’t defend someone who killed another in cold blood merely for the sport of it. 
But if I were asked to represent a kid guilty of theft who is genuinely repentant and brimming with poten­tial, I can disregard, “Thou shalt not steal.” 
Sometimes in life people have to do things they’re not comfortable with for the sake of a greater good, and as long as these actions do not conflict with one’s core ethical pillars, some dissonance is allowed. 
I realized my petty vendetta against yoga pants was not worth standing in the way of my friends’ joy. 
In fact, I think those yoga pants will look fabulous on the strong, beautiful and ever classy Wild Women of Walsh, and not just because I designed them. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Tori Roeck 
News Writer 


College and self-deception 
Ten years from now, we will remember the college experience at Notre Dame as we remember our childhood. My child­hood memories somehow represent a place where everything was ideal. Yet, the fact 
that I will never  
be able to relieve  Jee Seun Choi  
those memories  
creates this sense  Asiatic Gaze  
of nostalgia. When  

I was young, my life consisted of my family, friends and teachers, and the corner shop owners and their children. It was a perfect world. 
At the same time, when I look more deeply, my childhood had problems I con­sider petty as a grown up: The continuous battle over food and TV channels with my sister, all the toys and pets I wanted but my parents wouldn’t get for me, neighborhood bullies and scary kindergarten teachers. Those are issues that made me sad as a child, even though I had very loving par­ents. But in the end, the feelings of sweet­ness precede the difficult memories. Thus, the memory became a sanctuary. 
Maybe that’s why adults tend to idealize their college lives, just as we idealize our childhoods. My parents told me college was the one of the most carefree times of their lives, so I should enjoy it as much as possible. There seems to be a notion that college is supposed to be a perfect, happy place where your life only blossoms. Our lives do blossom, and I have enjoyed the past four years at Notre Dame. But I am noticing the negative sides of the college life are underestimated. 

Diversity issues at Notre Dame seem to be one such side. This year, the Notre Dame community lived in the delusion the situa­tion for minority students was better than it actually was. The fried chicken incident happened, and other cases of discrimina­tion were revealed through the Town Hall meeting and “Show Some Skin.” Racism and discrimination are not just exceptional experiences of some minority students, but a stable part of the Notre Dame experience. Many students who are not a minority face different kinds of difficulties due to the ho­mogenous culture at Notre Dame. Students who are in a minority, such as sexuality, religion, nationality, political identity or family background, have their own chal­lenges. 
A friend of mine who hates the party scene at Notre Dame said he had a hard time his freshman and sophomore year finding the right group of friends, even though his roommates were “great guys.” I have seen many of my friends suffer due to the discrepancy between the hard reality they faced in college and their preconceived idea of college. 
After a breakup, one of my friends said, “I think when I look back my senior life af­ter graduation, I will only remember happy things. I guess [the fact I suffer now] is okay. I just need to go through this.” Maybe in her case, it is good to detach yourself from the reality and try not to get too im­mersed in the situation. 
However, when the problem requires any action on your part, this kind of detach­ment is very dangerous, as it disables you from accurately assessing the reality. This year has been a tough year for the race relations. Many realized that somehow we have been deceiving ourselves with the sense of normalcy that everything was fine when it wasn’t. Realization is the first step for advancement. Maybe when I graduate, I might end up remembering my times at Notre Dame mostly with nostalgia and happy memories. But the struggle will con­tinue for those who continue to live in it. 
Jee Seun Choi can be reached at jchoi2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Why I signed the letter 
Since signing the letter denouncing Bishop Jenky’s comparison of the Obama administration to Hitler — one of 154 Notre Dame faculty to sign — I have received e-mails calling me “shameful,”  “treacher­ous,” and “without honor.” I have been John Duffy accused of trivial­izing abortion and Guest Columnist betraying Catholic teachings. What follows is an edited version of a response I wrote to one of my critics, who wrote me after I was quoted in the South Bend Tribune. 
“The South Bend Tribune quoted me ac­curately. I was disappointed by the bishop’s remarks. I thought they were divisive, ill-considered and historically absurd. You may believe President Obama deserves to be compared to Hitler. I do not, and I said so, nor am I persuaded by those who argue that the bishop’s remarks were quoted “out of context.” These people state the bishop did not directly compare Obama to Hitler, but instead made a narrower argument about restrictions on religious freedom by citing relevant historical examples, includ­ing Hitler. 
The problem with the “out of context” defense is that it wants to invoke Hitler without being accountable for it. Hitler, in our culture, is both a historical figure and a concept, one representing the embodi­ment of evil. You cannot compare someone to Hitler and then note afterwards that you weren’t referring to those parts of Hitler’s legacy. Analogies to Hitler do not permit such nice distinctions. We do not parse Hitler. To invoke Hitler is to invoke all of it 
— the death camps and all the rest. There is no such thing in our culture as a “Hitler-

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Energy is eternal delight.” 
William Blake English illustrator and poet 

not Hitler” analogy. However, my comments were not meant as a defense of abortion, as you suggested. Indeed, nothing I have said on this issue has addressed the questions of abortion, contraception, religious freedom, or the proper relationship of the U.S. Gov­ernment to the Catholic Church. 
My comments in the South Bend Tribune concerned the language Bishop Jenky used to advance his arguments. I believe one can argue passionately about the most pro­found moral questions without demonizing others. “Hear the other side,” St. Augustine said. In this instance, I think Bishop Jenky ignored that good advice. In recent days, I have heard from people telling me that le­galized abortion in the U.S. is a grave moral crisis. I feel the urgency in their messages, and I respect it. But I am also concerned about a crisis of another kind: the crisis in public argument. I am concerned that public discourse today has become so toxic and debased that not only are we incapable of securing agreement on moral ques­tions, we are not even able to agree on such basic things as the nature of a fact, or what constitutes empirical evidence, or what language is appropriate for characterizing those with whom we disagree. We argue ethical questions in terms of assertions and counter-assertions, and we hike up the vol­ume on our personal speakers to the max. We do not listen, and what we hear we are unwilling to understand. 
You may think my concerns trivial compared to yours. After all, accepting your formulation for this discussion, what compares to 50 million murders? Nothing, really. But I would suggest to you that the crisis of public discourse is prior to almost all other moral crises, including yours. 
Because if we do not have a language that allows us to reason together, then all our moral crises, including the one about which you care so passionately, will simply con­tinue without end. 
If you don’t believe this, ask yourself what progress you have seen on the issue of abortion. Consider that since Roe v. Wade was passed in 1973, we have had five Republican presidents and three Demo­cratic ones. In all the comings and goings of so-called “pro-life” and “pro-choice” presidents and other politicians, what fundamental changes have occurred? How satisfied are you with the sum of legisla­tive accomplishment? How confident are you that the next election will bring about, at long last, the changes you so fervently desire? 
Our politics, I am trying to say, are crip­pled by an impoverished public language. And this impoverishment of language makes us a tribal people, each side in its territory, firing rhetorical rocket shells at one another.  The blasts are emotionally satisfying, but the wars go on. If you think the only solution is the total destruction of the other side, then we part ways here. I am looking for a different way, and that’s why I regard Bishop Jenky’s remarks as unpro­ductive and indeed offensive. The Bishop’s language was a powerful blast but did nothing to end ongoing conflicts. 
That is why I signed the letter. 
John Duffy is an English professor at Notre Dame. He can be reached at jduffy@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“Be a yardstick of quality. Some people aren’t used to an environment where excellence is expected.” 
Steve Jobs 
U.S. computer engineer and industrialist 



Monday, April 30, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Please let me be me 
What is it about the human condition that will not allow us to affirm the devel­opment of others in the manner the Spirit has predetermined?  It seems as though either we say nothing to encourage holis­tic, authentic devel­opment, or we cast David Moss negative aspersions on those who make Dr. D @ the GRC the attempt. From a very early age, each of us has recognized that not everyone thinks, feels or reacts the same way. 
During this academic year, five in­dividuals close to me suffered through the death of a parent. As I attended the homegoing services for these awe-inspir­ing individuals, it became evident that each family handled the grieving process differently. In fact, there is no “normal” way to grieve. This process is unique to each one of us, and this is okay. Some may need months, some years and others only a few days. The length of time one grieves is not an indication of the depth of love or commitment to their loved one. Everyone processes these emotions differently and we should offer them the grace needed for the Spirit to do His per­fect work in their lives. 
Since taking on the role of interim director of the Gender Relations Center, I have enjoyed numerous conversations with students about many different types of relationships. Although there were some similarities, degrees of variance were ever present. In one of my past articles, I talked about the pressure and stress that Notre Dame women experi­ence as they navigate their path to an impossible standard. Men on this cam­pus feel the same stress and frustration around the issue of relationships. Last week a student (let’s call him Robert) sought me out to discuss several is­sues related to fitting in at Notre Dame. Robert struck me as mature, thoughtful and open to the critical examination of his personal development into manhood. He treated women with great respect because this is what he learned from his family, and he always thought it was the right thing to do. 
His friendships with women were genu­ine, based on mutual interests and sur­rounded by great conversations. Robert seemed clear about who he was and com­fortable with the “skin he was in.” There is a certain social movement of relation­ship building on campus that I will call the “Notre Dame Relationship Combine” (NDRC). The “NDRC” has certain expecta­tions, and quickly called into question not only Robert’s perspective on dating, but also challenged his premise that women are more than objects for his physical and emotional pleasure. Some of Robert’s friends not only labeled him with various character flaws, but they also brought into question his sexual orientation. His experience of Notre Dame is that he is no longer free to be himself. The assault of the “NDRC” was so assertive that Rob­ert began to think that there were very few (if any) men on campus who valued women and relationships the way he did. He felt alone. 

Although a hard sell, I endeavored to inform him that there were many men like him on campus. These men, however, are part of the “Silent majority” (Jan. 29) that see the craziness, do their best to avoid the craziness, but refuse to call out the craziness for what it is — crazy. Until this happens, the “NDRC” will continue to be the most influential determinant of relationship quality on this campus and men like Robert will continue to view their path to manhood as lonely and uncertain. 
So why is it important for the “NDRC” to denigrate those who are brave enough to place immediate gratification on hold, and to try to ignore the media’s attempt to portray women (and men) as objects only good for personal pleasure?  My hunch is that it relates to an old adage you may have heard before — misery loves company. Although Robert’s friends gave him the impression that they had it all to­gether, my experience tells me, that they lacked the maturity needed to pursue significant relationships based on mutual respect.  They are having “fun,” but are unfulfilled, so they want Robert to join them in their pursuit of immediate grati­fication, regardless of collateral damage. This way, “we’re all in this together.” 
It would be really nice if those en­sconced in the “NDRC” would allow those who have taken a different path to do so without the belittling and derogatory comments. My hope has always been that our campus would be one where everyone desired authentic and mutually beneficial relationships, but I recognize that this may not be the case. This is particularly true, given the sundry attitudes with which students engage this transitional period of life. Some have bypassed the part of friendship that encourages others to be their best self, not just imitations of what everyone else claims to be. This is my message to the “NDRC” from those who are looking for relationships based on respect and the mystery of authentic human relating — please let me be me. 
Dr. G. David Moss is the assistant vice president for Student Affairs and the interim director for the Gender Relations Center. He can be contacted at gmoss@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Please tell us why 
The University recently announced that it will not be adding sexual orienta­tion to the non-discrimination clause, and subsequently released the ways in which it hopes to “enhance support for gay and lesbian students.” This press release claimed that it was responding to student concerns and needs. As an ally, I appreciate that the University has given some kind of response to the momentum built this year by the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transexual and questioning (LGBTQ) and ally community. These measures, however, are not enough. They are not the response for which students are asking — nay, pleading. 
If you cannot make sexual orientation part of the non-discrimination clause, and if you refuse to recognize a student-run gay-straight alliance (GSA), please recognize the efforts of the many students fighting and work­ing for these issues on campus. The best way to recognize these efforts is to respond, publicly and explicitly, with the reasons why our requests continue to be denied. It has been many years since the University released an official statement detailing why they continue to believe that a GSA is unnecessary, or why sexual orientation does not belong in the non-discrimination clause. I am a practicing Catholic, I have studied the teaching, and I cannot find a doctrinal reason for this resistance. Are there alumni concerns? Would it negatively af­fect our endowment? Are there legal issues? These are questions in the minds of many students. 
While it would not be a replacement for the ultimate achievement of a recognized GSA and changing the non-discrimination clause, it would put my mind somewhat more at ease if the University would make a public statement telling us why. At this University, I am being taught to ask questions and make challenges. So this is my question. This is my challenge: Why? Why not? 
Respectfully and anxiously awaiting your response, 
Gabriela Nunez 
sophomore Cavanaugh Hall April 27 

For the administration 
Dear Notre Dame Administration, 
I’ve thoroughly enjoyed being a tour guide this past year and having the privilege of showcasing the campus and academic life to prospective and admitted students. I’ve been thrilled to answer the questions of these individuals, as well as concerns or specific questions that have come from their parents. However, as other tour guides have told me, there will be that one tour you will always remember. Mine happened last week. 
The tour had two families of admitted stu­dents, plus one mother whose daughter was currently getting another tour of campus provided by her host student. At the end of the tour, this one mother stayed back to ask some questions that were concerning her daughter. The first question she asked was, “How is the LGBTQ community and how are they treated on campus?” 
I was at a loss. On one hand, a vast ma­jority of my friends are in complete sup­port of the inclusion and would love to see it happen. On the other hand, we have an administration that continually chooses to reject adding sexual orientation to the non­discrimination clause. 
What could I say? The mother continued by saying that her daughter (she never men­tioned her daughter’s orientation, nor was it my right to ask) was very concerned by the lack of a Gay-Straight Alliance or an official LGBTQ club, for she has friends who are members of the community and didn’t think she would be comfortable on campus. After a while, we began to discuss the difference in generations on this issue, and how the cur­rent generation of college students (including those on this campus) are overwhelmingly supportive of equal rights for all, regardless of sexual orientation. 
Notre Dame, your attitude on this issue is starting to have serious effects.  Students who you want to welcome into the family are turning away due to the uncomfortable at­mosphere surrounding this issue. I have also heard from friends who work in the Phone Center that recent alumni are refusing to do­nate to the University because you won’t add sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause. 
Throughout the year, we have seen indi­viduals write about how other Catholic col­leges in the country (including Saint Mary’s) have LGBTQ organizations. I could throw in official Church documents that state that we are all called to accept one another fully. But apparently, this doesn’t work. 
Instead, I ask you this, Notre Dame ad­ministration: How would you have answered this mother’s question? How would you respond to her concern over the lack of an official LGBTQ? What would you do if she discovered that you repeatedly turn down the request for club status and for adding sexual orientation to the clause? How would you respond? 
Matt Roe 
senior Morrissey Manor April 27 

A call to future parents 
The fight for recognition, legitimacy and inclusion of LGBTQ students, faculty, and staff at the University of Notre Dame is a beautiful and powerfully necessary thing. This struggle seeks to improve the quality of life for students who don’t necessarily feel a part of the Notre Dame family, or who have been purposefully os­tracized by ignorance, discrimination and hate. Personally, however, this struggle represents and embodies the fight for ev­ery child who will ever look in the mirror and feel nothing but shame and fear. 
For every boy who doesn’t understand why he is pushed into lockers, why people call him a “f*****.” For every girl who is made fun of because she’s a tomboy, or because she likes girls. For every person who goes through the terrifying struggle for gender identity, and for every person who has ever lost their life because they have been pushed over the edge by hate. No one should ever have to feel the need to harm themselves because people can­not find within them the humanity to say, “I love you, not just regardless of your sexuality, but with unconditional accep­tance and recognition of all that is a part of you.” This is a call to every Notre Dame student who ever plans on having chil­dren, adopting children or plans to work with children. Make your arms the first that your child will run to if they come home from school with stories about how they don’t want to go to school because the kids are mean to them. 

Wrap your son in your arms, and tell him that it’s alright that he wants to hold hands with another boy. Hold your daughter and explain that it’s okay for her to like another girl. 
If your child struggles with their gender, be loving, accepting and create a space for them grow, mature and learn to love themselves. Don’t be the parent who has to bury their child because you never thought that it would happen to you. 
Lucas Garcia 
freshman Keenan Hall April 27 



By ADRIANA PRATT 
Senior Scene Writer 
The warbling was worth the wait. Though Vanessa Carlton graced Notre Dame with her presence later than expected, by the time the curtains closed on the Legends stage Saturday night, the audience was left im­pressed and satisfied with the musician’s performance. 
After opening act freshman Michael Paluzzi strummed through a few of his original acoustic tunes, Carlton took the stage. Accompanied by violinist Skye Steele, the duo situated themselves while the audience, layers deep through the dance floor and out the door, screamed in excitement. 
The screaming, unfortunately, continued throughout most of Carlton’s set, though the musicians didn’t seem to mind. 
Exuding the serene elf-like vibes of the “Lord of the Rings’” Arwen, Carlton sat at the piano in a robe-like red gown, hair flowing free and makeup light and natu­ral. Her platform sandals enthusiastically pumped the pedals as multiple gold animal rings danced across the keys. 
The look suited her, as Carlton said in an interview with Scene before the show that she found her very own “Shire” in England where she will record her next al­bum. 
The concert’s setlist drew heavily from her 2011 al­bum “Rabbits on the Run.” Carlton classics, like “White Houses” and “Hands on Me,” were peppered through­out. 
The audience went nuts when she finally appeased their screams for “A Thousand Miles,” the penultimate number of the night. Despite a few technical difficul­ties early in the show, Carlton maintained a reverie-like ambiance on stage throughout. 
Though she said she feels at home in a college setting, and her lyrics certainly match a coming-of-age period, Carlton’s performance was almost too mature for the crowd. As excited as I’m sure she was to hear, “I love you Vanessa!” every five minutes, the intoxicated rep­etition drowned out some of Carlton’s deeper musings. 
Between pieces, she’d pause and deliver the creation story of each song, but most details were lost amidst the constant chatter. A few came through the microphone, however, including a live and let live message about re­lationships before the song “Who Says.” 
Backstage before the concert, Carlton divulged more details about her philosophy and journey as an artist. She noted a change in sound over the past few years and said further changes would come with her next al­bum. 
“We’re going to do something sort of like a, it’s re­ally an electronic dance-pop record,” Carlton said. “It’s going to be different. I think it’s oddly a natural pro­gression from ‘Rabbits.’ I don’t really know how I can explain that in a way that makes sense, but once I think we start making the tracks, it will make sense. I’m re­ally, really excited.” 
She said inspiration for her upcoming album comes both from listening to her college-aged brother’s trippy, euphoric music and reading classical mythology. 
“I’m very inspired by Shamanism and right now, I’m kind of revisiting a lot of old mythological tales and kind of psychedelic poetry,” Carlton said. 
Carlton’s world and music changed direction a few years ago, sparked by what she said was “deep misery” and chaos she didn’t have the tools to make sense of at the time. 
“I’m an ongoing, working, evolving person, you know? Because we all are,” she said. “I think my big­gest triumph, I guess, was the fundamental shift I had a couple years ago where I just kind of devoted myself to being as authentic and generous and happy as I possi­bly could be, and just really appreciating the wonderful people and creatures in my life. 
“Life’s pretty short. I think once you have a shift like that in your attitude, I think that affects your work, your writing, everything.” 
Figuring out what’s important became a priority for Carlton. Though she dropped out of Columbia Univer­sity in the midst of her blossoming career, she said she is very passionate about supporting education, and in particular musical education. 
Another Carlton passion is the environment. She re­cently performed with Gavin DeGraw at the Origins Rocks Earth Month Concert in New York, and has tried to maintain an environmentally-friendly atmosphere on tour. 
“I mean it’s really hard, especially when I travel the world so much and I’m outside the [United] States a lot, and to see how behind we were,” she said. “We’re get­ting much better, and to kind of be more progressive in terms of how much (we) waste and how we kind of even run our hotels and stuff … It’s a little frustrating.” 
Carlton said she was excited to perform at Notre Dame, and not just because the University shares a similar devotion to sustainability. 
“[Notre Dame] is gorgeous and I was really excited when I was invited to come,” Carlton said. “I love play­ing universities and … my brother’s still in college so … it feels like home in a way. I mean, I know I’m not a college kid, but I feel really comfortable here, playing schools.” 
She loves playing colleges and she loves performing for a youthful audience, but that doesn’t mean Carlton doesn’t have a little age to her soul. In fact, according to her, she’s well on her way to becoming one of the women from “Grey Gardens,” a documentary film about a socialite mother and daughter hiding away from the world. 
So where exactly does Carlton see herself 30 years from now? She said she hopes she’ll be a “crazy old pot­tery teacher composer living in the Redwood forest.” 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 




Monday, April 30, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Oedipus, the mythical Greek king of Thebes, had a complex relationship with his mother. He unknowingly ful­fills a prophecy that he will kill his own father and marry his mother — doom­ing his city in the process. 
As peculiar as Oedipus’ relation­ship with his moth­er was, the Greek king had nothing on what America feels towards its mommy, England. A former collection of colonies of the British Empire, ther. 
But there is one uniquely British tradition that, try as we might, we Americans are never going to repli­cate, nor claim as our own in any way, shape or form — the most British of ceremonies, royal weddings. 
Sunday marked the one-year anniversary of Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, marrying Kate Mid­
dleton, a commoner who met William while she was study­ing at the University 
of St. Andrews in Scotland. 
The spectacle of their wedding was unparalleled by these cannot match the solidarity of celebrating William and Kate’s vows. Even President Obama’s election in 2008, which brought so much hope and change to the country, was not celebrated in all American homes. Yet, Will and Kate’s nuptials across the pond attracted 60 million Ameri­can viewers, not to mention the scores more around the world. 

The Royal Wedding had many tan­gible magical mo-ments that captured the hearts young and old — the brightest stars in the world in attendance (El­ton John and the Beckhams), Kate’s stunning dress, Pippa Middleton’s, 
Americans are jaded — it’s cliché, but we love to tear something down as much as we like to build it up. But as hard as you can try, there aren’t any chinks in Will and Kate’s armor. No one won or lost; there wasn’t a worry about what would happen tomorrow. All that mattered was here and now, these two people were committing to one another — albeit with global ex­posure and an unparalleled display of bells and whistles. 
We Americans can 
never have a roy­
al wedding of our 
own, not just be­
cause we don’t have 
a monarchy, but 
because a ceremo­
ny of such hope is 
distinctly un-Amer­



we  declared indepen­
dence from our matri­anything we Amer-ahem, assets, a 

ican. We were just 
icans could 

pro-wedding at West-
as fascinated with 

arch almost two and a half cen­turies ago. Yet to this day, we cannot help to be obsessed with anything and everything British. 
We love their music (ranging from the Beatles to Adele), their literature (Dickens to the “Harry Potter” novels), their television (“Downton Abbey”) and even their celebrities (the Beck-hams). 
Even the most esteemed American pop culture icons can’t seem to get enough “British” in their lives – wit­ness Madonna’s faux-British accent. It seems the only British things we Americans haven’t gobbled up for our own are driving on the left side of the road and dental care (or lack thereof) 
— and I’m not complaining about ei­duce. Even the most American of cel­ebrations we can muster never could match the once-in-a-generation feel of the wedding — the 4th of July happens every year, but the last royal wedding before this one was in 1981. 
Moreover, any sort of wedding Americans of similar stature may hold is usually met with cynicism or ridicule, a la Kim Kardashian’s. These celebrity weddings we pay so much at­tention too pale in comparison to last year’s royal celebration, and seem al­most tacky in contrast. Not to mention the fact that a royal wedding would never be broadcast on E! as a reality special. 
And then there are events that de­fine the future of America — but minster Abbey and to cap it all off, a fairytale kiss on the bal­cony of Bucking­ham Palace. 

But the spec­tacle isn’t what made the event so special — celebrities, derrieres, over-the-top ceremonies and smooches are a dime-a-dozen these days. The Royal Wedding was extraordinary be­cause something so pure as love was at stake. For a moment, nothing mat­tered but the true devotion between two people. We held on to this moment on a global scale because there are so few times in any of our lives when something so wholesome occurs. 
the Kim Kardashi­an’s divorce as we were with her vows to Kris Humphries. 
Cynicism is as Ameri­can as baseball or apple pie. 

That’s why the Roy­al Wedding meant so much to us. No matter what we do, a royal wedding is something we cannot physically or emotionally replicate. For one day, we dropped our jaded American personas in favor of celebrating with the Brits. Leave it to a prince and princess to get America to rescind its independence for a day. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 

With electronica-tinged songs that draw from almost every genre, “Mondo” is an interesting enough project to catch almost any music listener’s ear. The full-length debut from Los Angeles-based duo Electric Guest has a range and appeal that is wonderfully unusual for the electronic genre. 
Producer Brian Burton, a.k.a. Danger Mouse, proves himself yet again, taking this band’s unique and catchy sound and giving it true mass appeal. It’s a quality that makes them an act to look out for on the charts. 
Comprised of singer Asa Taccone and band mate Matt Compton, Electrcic Guest’s project sprang from the mind of Taccone, brother of Jorma Tacco­ne from The Lonely Island. He spent years amass­ing ideas for “Mondo” while producing hits for the “Saturday Night Live”-sprung band like “D*ck in a Box”. 
Intro song “Holes” has great radio power and is Billboard Top 200-worthy. Success by Gotye, a similar act, has paved the way for Electric Guest to have the radio play that will give the band the same mass appeal. The song is slightly reminiscent of The Postal Service with its high-tech, spacey feel and syncopated beats. 
The strongest track is “The Head I Hold.” Bor­rowing a Temptations-esque smooth and effortless falsetto voice from Motown, the song has a sweet­ly urgent melody that makes it insanely catchy. A dainty tickle of the piano keys starts the song before it is kicked off with a staccato drum that merges into a melody begging to be danced to. 
“Amber” is almost folksy, with Taccone’s croon­ing and storytelling within the song. A tale of woe that one can groove to, it sounds like Ryan Gos­ling’s character in “Drive”: specifically alone, out-casted and undeniably talented. 
First single “Under the Gun” merges into hip-hop characteristics with its intro, and the music video for it is a fantastic ‘Napoleon Dynamite”-like mon­tage of odd dancing auditions. It also doubles by acting as a metaphor for the journey Taccone had to take to tackle his fears about this pet project. 
“American Daydream” is a dark, obsessive tale of love gone wrong. The music video for the track dis­plays this, with Taccone beaten and bruised, going through a swanky Los Angeles party-gone-wrong, as he circles the edges as a wannabe lover. 
The idea of the video is completed with a torn button-down and brooding beard stubble —  just enough crazy-eye to do the trick. With a humorous touch reminiscent of most Lonely Island videos, Taccone spends most of the video leaping at people like Cady Heron in the cafeteria in “Mean Girls.” 
Electric Guest creates a soul that is difficult to find in the sometimes-devoid electronic music world. It is a rare band that does unique music so well it sounds familiar, and “Mondo” is an album that is already begging for a follow-up. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 
“Mondo” Electric Guest 


DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 30, 2012 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Don’t put too much stock into NFL Draft 
Don’t get me wrong. I love the NFL Draft just as much as all those nuts at Radio City Music Hall in New York City. 
It’s an exciting time for NFL fans, who may have been more focused on the NHL playoffs or MLB openers, to get think­ing about their teams again. Fans start forecast­ing which players can fill holes on the depth chart, and with every team’s record at 0-0, a playoff appearance seems plausible to even the most disadvantaged followers (looking at you guys in Cleve­land). 
But between all the mock drafts, trade rumors, pro days and Wonderlic tests, the hype of the draft gets to be too much. There’s only so many times I can look at Mel Kiper’s Big Board or Todd McShay’s mock draft before I want Com­missioner Goodell (read: Dicta­tor Goodell) to announce the first pick and get the draft off and running. 
The problem isn’t just that the buildup has become so overblown in this age of 24/7 media coverage. It’s that the draft, and scouting prospects and predicting their futures in general, is a fickle game. 
There are supposed “locks” like No. 1 overall pick Andrew Luck. But even he could strug­gle to attain the All-Pro status talent evaluators and fans alike are expecting from him. He may very well be the next great quarterback, but then again he might not. 
And he’s only the first pick. 
As you move through the first round, the uncertainty only increases. The eighth player chosen, new Miami Dolphins quarterback Ryan Tannehill, is the perfect encapsulation of the unpredictable nature of the NFL Draft. He has entic­ing physical attributes: a strong arm, good size and solid mobility. But Tannehill was still playing wide receiver six games into his junior season at Texas A&M. So now all of a sudden Dolphins fans are ex­pected to believe Tannehill will be the franchise quarterback: the stopgap at a position that has experienced tremendous turnover since the retirement of the legendary Dan Marino? 
Yeah, those fans are expect-

Mike Monaco 
Sports Writer 
ed to believe that, because that’s what happens with the NFL Draft. Hope springs eter­nal, and fans blindly believe all first-round picks become stars. 
Tannehill may very well be a bust like other quarterbacks taken recently in the first round (think Joey Harrington, Vince Young, Matt Leinart and JaMarcus Russell). But the thing about the NFL Draft is he could be a star. He could be the next Eli Manning, Phil­ip Rivers, Ben Roethlisberger or Aaron Rodgers. These guys all were first-round picks and have proved to be as good as advertised. 
There’s more to the draft than first-round picks, though. Get as excited as you want about the blue-chip draft choices, but don’t forget that Tom Brady was a sixth-round pick. Don’t forget Victor Cruz and Arian Foster were undrafted. It’s an enormously difficult task to consider what a player did in college — whether it be at Alabama or North Alabama — and predict what he will do in the pros. 
So no matter how much we analyze the draft, the bot­tom line is that we simply don’t know. The Kipers and McShays of the world can tell us the Seahawks didn’t get enough value by taking West Virginia linebacker Bruce Irvin with the 15th pick. They can inform us Andrew Luck is the best quarterback prospect to come along since John El­way. They can tell us that cer­tain teams filled their “needs” by taking this guy or that guy. But no matter how much expertise they have and how many sources they’ve spoken with, the fact of the matter is, they don’t know for sure. 
We can’t say Luck and Rob­ert Griffin are the next great quarterbacks, just as we can’t say that Tannehill is a bust. Because for every Ryan Leaf and Akili Smith, there’s an Aaron Rodgers. For every no-name late-round pick that gets cut in the preseason, there’s a Tom Brady and his three Super Bowl rings.  
So be as excited as you want about your team’s future prospects, but just remember Kiper, his hair gel and NFL scouts are rolling the dice. And they’re not weighted. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Sabathia pitches Yankees to win 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Max Scherzer was not wild about his performance. 
Scherzer walked a ca-reer-high seven while CC Sabathia pitched neatly for eight innings, and the New York Yankees beat Detroit 6-2 on Sunday, the Tigers’ eighth loss in 10 games. 
“I take pride in not walk­ing guys and that’s really what has me frustrated, all those walks,” Scherzer said. 
Scherzer (1-3) was pulled with the bases loaded and two outs in the fifth inning, having thrown 119 pitches. Still, he only gave up three runs. 
“He just didn’t have com­mand. We walked too many people,” Tigers manager Jim Leyland said. “Ma­jor league pitchers are not supposed to do that. Once again, he got his pitch count way up there way too early.” 
Scherzer’s control prob­lems forced Leyland to call on Luke Putkonen to make his major league debut with the bases loaded. He got Curtis Granderson to ground out to second base, then received a bunch of fist bumps when he returned to the dugout. 
“To be honest with you, that was the last thing I wanted to do, but sometimes it doesn’t want to work out the way you want to,” Ley­land said. “I was hoping (Scherzer) could get through the inning and I could start the kid in an inning.” 
The Yankees walked nine times and left 15 on base overall, but won the three-game series. 
Detroit again played with­out Delmon Young, who was arrested on a hate crime harassment charge at his hotel early Friday during which police say he yelled anti-Semitic epithets. 

Young was placed on the restricted list Saturday and will be evaluated under base­ball’s employee assistance program, perhaps as early as Monday. It is not known if he will be at Comerica Park on Monday night when the Tigers host the Kansas City Royals. 
Alex Rodriguez drove in two runs to pass Willie Mays on the career RBIs list with 1,904, according to research by the Elias Sports Bureau provid­ed the Yankees, without hit­ting the ball out of the infield. 
Rodriguez singled on a drib­bler down the third base line with the bases loaded in the second, the Yankees’ only hit in six plate appearances with three men on. Chris Stewart slid under catcher Gerald Laird’s tag on Rodriguez’s ground­er to short in the seventh. 
Granderson homered in the fourth inning — barely. He had to stop his trot between second and third to look back for confirmation after center fielder Austin Jackson near­ly made a spectacular catch above the wall in right-center. 
Granderson also walked with the bases loaded to force in the game’s first run in the second. 
The Yankees walked nine times and left 15 on base overall, but won the three-game series. 
“We were really fortunate to have a shot in that game the way the game was going,” Leyland said. “In this ball­park, with a lineup like that, normally that doesn’t hap­pen. And it won’t happen.” 
Sabathia (3-0) gave up a double in the first then re­tired 10 in a row before Prince Fielder, his former team­mate at Milwaukee, hit his first home run in the Bronx and third this year overall with two outs in the fourth. 
The big lefty had little trou­ble with the Tigers — all ex­cept for Fielder and his nem­esis Miguel Cabrera, who hit a long RBI double in the sixth in­ning to close it to 3-2. Cabrera is 10 for 19 against Sabathia. 
“I’m sure he’s 10 for 19 against a lot of guys,” Sabathia said, calling Cabrera the best right-handed hitter in baseball. 
Sabathia struggled early to a 5.27 ERA on a staff with a 6.37 ERA, 29th in majors, entering Sunday. Garcia was dropped from the rotation be­fore Sunday’s game and rookie David Phelps may get a start before the expected return of Andy Pettitte in mid-May. 
But  Sabathia  was  
sharp  this  time,  yield­ 
ing  four  hits  and  striking  

out eight. He walked two. 
With New York’s bullpen taxed by Freddy Garcia’s 1 2-3 inning start on Saturday, Man­ager Joe Girardi said before the game, “I would love to get a good seven or eight strong in­nings out of CC.” His ace obliged. 
“It just feels good to go out there and give those guys a rest,” Sabathia said of a ‘pen that had thrown 73 1-3 innings entering the game, third most in the AL. Detroit is second. 
Fielder homered to close the score to 2-1 before Granderson matched him in the bottom of the fourth. 
With one out, Granderson connected but Jackson made a long run and leaped where the outfield wall meets a fence that separates fans from the New York bullpen in right-center. The former Yankees minor leaguer who was sent to Detroit in the trade for Granderson had the ball in his glove but momentum car­ried the glove into that fence, knocking the ball loose for Granderson’s eighth homer. 
“I feel I can make every play that I can get to,” Jackson said. “That one is just unfortunate that I couldn’t come up with it.” 
Andruw Jones homered in the eighth. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

PERSONAL  WANTED  Recent NBA Champions: 1983- Philadelphia 76ers 1984- Boston Celtics  1997- Chicago Bulls 1998- Chicago Bulls 1999- San Antonio Spurs  This Day in History: 1492 – Spain gives Christopher Columbus his commission of  1975- Communist forces gain control of Saigon. The Vietnam War formally ends with the  
1985- Los Angeles Lakers  2000- Los Angeles Lakers  exploration.  unconditional surrender of South  
1986- Boston Celtics  2001- Los Angeles Lakers  1803- The United States  Vietnamese president Duong Van  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Technical Language Service  1987- Los Angeles Lakers  2002- Los Angeles Lakers  purchases the Louisiana Territory  Minh.  
Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame  (www.tls-translations.com)  1988- Los Angeles Lakers  2003- San Antonio Spurs   from France for $15 million.  1993 – Virgin Radio broadcasts  
has many resources in place to  1989- Detroit Pistons  2004- Detroit Pistons  1900 – Hawaii becomes a territory  for the first time in the United  
assist you. If you or someone you  is looking for Jpn majors capable  1990- Detroit Pistons  2005- San Antonio Spurs  of the United States.  Kingdom.  
love needs confidential support  of being trained as technical  1991- Chicago Bulls  2006- Miami Heat  1939 – NBC inaugurates its  1995 – U.S. President Bill Clinton  
or assistance, please call Sr.  translators from Jpn to Eng.   1992- Chicago Bulls  2007- San Antonio Spurs  regularly scheduled television  became the first President to visit  
Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more  1993- Chicago Bulls  2008- Boston Celtics  service in New York City.  Northern Ireland.  
information, visit ND’s website at:  1994- Houston Rockets  2009- Los Angeles Lakers  1945- Adolf Hitler and Eva Braun  2009 – Chrysler automobile  
Please go to http://goo.gl/CZq87  1995- Houston Rockets  2010- Los Angeles Lakers  commit suicide after being married  company files for Chapter 11  
 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  to complete a test.  1996- Chicago Bulls  2011- Dallas Mavericks  for one day.  bankruptcy.  

Monday, April 30, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 

MEN’S GOLF 

Irish lead early at Big East championships 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
After recording two of the top three individual rounds on the first of day of competition Sunday, the Irish lead the Big East championships at the Watson Course at the Reunion Resort in Orlando, Fla., by one stroke over Louisville. 
Junior Paul McNamara and senior Max Scodro paved the way for the Irish, finishing at four-under par and three-under par, respectively. The duo only trails Louisville senior Jus­tin Dorward for the invididual lead, who shot five-under on the day. 
“I thought [the team] did a really nice job,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “They are feeling good about their games. Even though some of the guys didn’t finish well in Houston [at All American Collegiate on April 10], we had good stretches there. 
“The guys the last two-and-a-half weeks have really started to play well, and it was fun today. [Senior] Tom [Usher] struggled a bit, but the other four guys did a great job.” 
McNamara continued his strong play that started in Houston. The California native finished the day with six birdies, all of which came on par-fours. 
“Paul shot four-under and had it at five-under today, but he started that in Houston,” Kubinski said. “He was five-under through 11 or 12 holes there, ended up at one-under [in the second round]. Then he continued to play well at [the Olympia Fields Invi­tational in Chicago] and at our place he shot 70. 
“[The fact that all four birdies came on par-fours] means he could shoot a lower score too, because you think you can birdie a couple of [par-fives]. If he does the same thing tomorrow, he may have a couple a more in there.” 
Meanwhile, Scodro found suc­cess at an event where he already holds quite the history. The senior claimed the individual Big East championship last season after fin­ishing as a co-medalist his sopho­more year. Sitting at third place after one round is a familiar posi­tion for Scodro, as he found himself in the same position after the first round during last year’s winning campaign. 
“I think [his experience] was big today in the sense that he hit so many good shots and he just rolled the putt right over the edge of the hole six, seven or eight times,” Ku­binski said. “He didn’t get frustrat­ed and he didn’t start to press. He’s learned a lot.” 
According to Kubinski, the Irish can’t worry about how other teams are performing because their focus should remain on their own game. 
“Like I told the guys, it’s all about the last three holes on Tuesday,” Kubinski said. “You just play the course, play the game and don’t get too caught up in it. You never know if another team gets hot and comes up from behind and makes it a match too. 
“We are not going to worry too much about Louisville and just try to play another solid round. Then at the end of the day tomorrow, hopefully we’ll be in the same po­sition and have an opportunity to close it out on Tuesday.” 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


St. John’s 
continued from page 20 
and DeSico committed two errors in one play, allow­ing freshman designated hitter Zach Lauricella to score the first run for the Red Storm (28-16, 14-4) 
St. John’s grabbed a one-run lead in the seventh, as sophomore first baseman Frank Schwindel doubled junior center fielder Char­lie Markson. The Red Storm added three more unearned runs in the ninth, initiated with a throwing error by se­nior third baseman Tommy Chase. 
The Irish took back a run in the eighth inning with an RBI single from senior right fielder Alex Robin­son. Fresh­man left won that game.” 
There were some bright spots for the Irish, includ­ing the performance from McMurray, who went 4-for-8 with a run and an RBI while hitting ninth in both games. 
“I thought Jason played his 
best day in an Irish uniform, without any questi on,” Aoki said. “He played well start to finish. I 


and scored on a single, and fielder Mac “We didn’t get the hits thought he junior left fielder Jeremy Hudgins led when we needed to, they did a great Baltz scored an unearned off the bot-job.” 
got the hits when they 
run after advancing on a tom of the The story 
needed to ... They won 
throwing error by Irish ninth with wasn’t much 
the critical moments.” 
a triple and different scored on Sunday. The a single Mik Aoki Red Storm from fresh-Irish coach scored a run 
man short­stop Jason McMu rray, but junior catcher Joe Hudson hit a fly ball out to left field with the bases loaded to end the game. 
While the Irish gave up a lead in the first game, they never had control of the sec­ond, as junior righthand­er Adam Norton (3-3) was rocked for four runs in the first inning. 
“Norty didn’t pitch great,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “He just didn’t have his best stuff, so unfortunately that’s two weeks in a row.” 
The Irish got one back in the bottom of the inning when a Mancini groundout scored freshman designated hitter Ryan Bull from third. 
The Red Storm scored two more in the top of the fifth, and despite a home run from sophomore third baseman Eric Jagielo in the bottom of that frame and additional runs in both the seventh and eighth, the Irish suffered their second loss of the day. 
After the losses, Aoki gave credit to the St. John’s pitchers, who kept Irish hit­ters off-balance all night. 
“That’s what those kinds of [pitchers] do,” Aoki said. “None of them are very over­powering with velocity or anything. They try to keep you off-balance and they did a good job. Had we gotten a timely hit here and there, we probably still would have apiece in the third, fourth and fifth in­nings, the last of which 
occurred without a single St. John’s hit. 
The Irish put runners in scoring position in five innings, but they only scratched out one run, a sacrifice bunt from DeSico that plated Markson in the seventh. 
Aoki said the score was more a testament to St. John’s starter Kyle Hansen, a right-handed junior, than an indictment of the Irish lineup, which went 6-for-30 with runners in scoring po­sition over the weekend. 
“He’s going to be a decent draft [pick] for a reason,” Aoki said. “By and large, I didn’t think our at-bats were all that bad against him.” 
Aoki said the Red Storm demonstrated a knack for pulling wins out of close games. 
“We didn’t get the hits when we needed to, they got the hits when they needed to. We didn’t defend it well enough when we needed to, and they defended it well enough,” Aoki said. “They won the critical moments.” 
The Irish will look to re­bound against Butler at Frank Eck Stadium at 5:35 
p.m. Tuesday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Monday, April 30, 2012 
Clark 
continued from page 20 
really found our feet. In the sec­ond half, I thought we were excel­lent.” 
After recording one shot in the opening half, the Irish unleashed 12 shots in the second and forced Mexico to make seven saves. In the 65th minute, Irish sophomore midfielder Harrison Shipp had Notre Dame’s first shot on goal. 
Two minutes later, Irish senior midfielder Adam Mena had his blast from the top of the 18-yard box headed away by a diving Mexico defender. The Irish had two more quick scoring oppor­tunities in the 71st minute, but Mexico countered with a scoring chance of its own that was turned away by Irish sophomore goal­keeper Patrick Wall. 
The contest brought excitement on the field and in the stands, as Mexico fans ensured a raucous atmosphere, Clark said. 
“It was a lot of fun, I think, for the players to play in a higher-lev­el game like that,” he said. “It was fun to have a full house, a crowd that was right into the game, and I think it was just a great atmo­sphere.” 
Notre Dame 2, Haiti 1 
With a 2-1 win over the Haitian national team, an undermanned Irish squad grabbed its first inter­national win since 2008. 
Freshman forward Lauren Bohaboy led the Irish with two goals, including the game-winner in the 84th minute. Tied at one, the California product jetted past her defender and ripped a shot from an awkward angle on the left flank. The ball squeezed un­der Haiti goalkeeper Jordan Clark and barely crossed the line, prov­ing to be the winning goal for the Irish. 
“[Bohaboy] has been good all spring,” Irish coach Randy Wal­drum said. “She has been one of our two best players this spring and has made the biggest strides for us. We are looking for great things from her in the fall. She was fantastic, I thought.” 
Bohaboy’s first goal came after a Haiti defender took down Irish sophomore midfielder Elizabeth Tucker in the box, drawing a pen­alty kick. Bohaboy put the penalty kick into the back of the net, giv­ing the Irish a 1-0 lead in the 31st minute. 
But the Irish lead didn’t last for long. In the 40th minute, Haiti for­ward Manoucheka Pierre-Louis settled a long pass before thread­ing a through pass to midfielder Lovely Placide. Placide, who was streaking down the left flank, got behind the Irish defense and easily put it past Irish junior goal­keeper Maddie Fox to knot the score at one. 
The Irish outshot the Hai­tians, 25-6, but couldn’t manage to break the tie until Bohaboy’s strike in the 84th minute. Bohab­oy had a chance for a hat trick in the 91st, but her free kick clanged off the crossbar after a deflection by Clark. 
Despite the result, Waldrum said his squad struggled to adapt to Haiti’s slower-paced interna­tional style. 
“It is a very international style. They were very organized defen­sively and they are very good on the counter,” he said. “That is not the American way. Our teams are al­ways on the ‘go-go-go,’ so we had to figure out how to break that down. I was pleased with our play, but I was also very impressed with what [Hai­ti national coach Shek Borkowski] has done in a short time with the Haiti team.” 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at                        agastel1@nd.edu and Joseph      Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


ROWING 

Irish finish regular season on high note 
Dunbar 
continued from page 20 
had our chances to win but stuff just didn’t go our way tonight.” 
Hoops We Did It Again, a team made up of Bauer and Holy Cross freshmen Darrell McIntyre, George Stainko, Alajowon Ed­wards and Zoe Bauer, trailed 11-8 at halftime and didn’t claim a second-half lead until the 18-17 mark. 
Beau Bauer said a change in defensive philosophy, especially against former Irish men’s bas­ketball forward Broghammer, was the key to the second half surge. 
“We knew that with it being wet out, we’d rather take our chances getting beat by the jump shot rather than letting Mike kill us in­side with fouls or layups,” Bauer said. “So for us, we figured if they were going to beat us with jump shots, that was how they were go­ing to beat us.” 
SWAG had success in the early going with the perimeter shot, as guards Van Harmelen and Dun­bar combined for four first-half points. Broghammer chipped in four first-half points of his own, but was limited to just two points in the second half as Hoops We Did It Again switched exclusively to a 2-3 zone. 
“I have to say defense was the key [for us],” Bauer said. “It’s slick out here and the ball’s not going in. Mike killed us in the first half, but our defense picked it up for us in the second half which allowed us to come back and make the late run.” 
With the game tied at 19, Van Harmelen made a baseline jump­er to give SWAG a 20-19 lead. Beau Bauer then countered with a mid­range jumper to tie the game at 
20. Zoe Bauer then hit a floater in the lane to take a one-point lead. After a SWAG turnover, Beau Bauer hit the game-winning shot. 
“There were a lot of people out here that didn’t want Holy Cross to win but we came through and the little man wins,” Beau Bauer said. “We beat the giant.” 
Semifinals No. 3 Hoops We Did It Again 23, No. 2 Mendozer Bulldozers 21 
The first game of the semifi­nals Saturday was a battle right up until the last free throw, as No. 3 Hoops We Did It Again defeated No. 2 Mendozer Bulldozers 23-21. Mendozer Bulldozers senior cap­tain Chris Jung only had one word to best describe the game. 

“Physical,” Jung said. 

Stainko said that the key to the game was the team’s hustle and defense. 
“Our defense was great at the end, and we had the clutch free throw at the end which sealed it,” Stainko said. 
The Mendozer Bulldozers and Hoops We Did It Again traded buckets in the beginning of the game, but Hoops We Did It Again took an 11-9 lead at halftime, get­ting its opponent into foul trouble. Hoops We Did It Again managed to keep a one-point cushion until the Mendozer Bulldozers knotted the score at 16 on sophomore Ty­ler Sonsalla’s drive and layup. 
Mendozer Bulldozers consists of Sonsalla, Jung, sophomore Tommy Hickey and seniors Pat­rick Kelly and Griffin Naylor. 
Hickey dominated the post with his shot-blocking ability and managed to help the Mendozer Bulldozers stay close until the final foul of the game. Hoops We Did It Again went up 21-20, but the Mendozer Bulldozers rallied back as Kelly hit a big shot to tie the score at 21. Hoops We Did It Again took a 22-21 lead on a Mc­Intyre put-back, and then after a strong defensive stop earned a foul call on the offensive end. With a chance to put the game away, Zoe Bauer knocked down the free throw and Hoops We Did It Again moved on to the finals. 
“They ran a lot of solo-focused stuff and we didn’t execute ear­ly on,” Jung said. “It was just a tough game all around.” 
No. 4 SWAG 21, No. 1 The Legacy of Alex Klupchak 7 
No. 4 SWAG came out of the gates fast and never looked back, defeating No. 1 The Legacy of Alex Klupchak, 21-7. 
Van Harmelen was on fire from distance early, making five jumpers in a row. 
“Originally we were all from Keenan [Hall] and won the Inter-hall championship together,” Van Harmelen said. “In the round of 64, one of our teammates broke [his] thumb and we were able to 


By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
The Irish finished their regular season schedule with a perfect record at the Big East Invitational in Indianapolis, winning every race during the meet. The perfect day included a clean sweep of the three grand finals. 
“I think it was a really good day for us as an entire team,” junior captain Abby Meyers said. “To­day, we pulled together and raced as an entire team.” 
After earning spots during their preliminary heats, the var­sity eight, varsity four and second varsity eight each raced a second time in the grand finals races to earn the wins in the biggest races of the day. 
In the first of the grand finals, the varsity eight had the closest of the three races. The Irish boat pulled in with a time of 6:41.0, only 0.6 seconds before second-place Syracuse. The close win set the stage for the rest of the grand final races. 
“The race against Syracuse was really intense. We know that all season, one of their biggest goals was to beat us in the Big East,” Meyers said. “They’ve been working really hard and they made it really close. It was tooth and nail to the very end, but then we got the job done.” 

The second of the grand finals featured the second varsity eight boats. After winning its pre­liminary heat by 22 seconds, the second varsity boat did not win the grand finals in such an easy manner. Notre Dame finished 1.1 seconds ahead of Syracuse with a winning time of 6:47.4. 
The Irish had their easiest win in the final varsity four grand fi­nal, finishing 12.9 seconds ahead of second-place Iowa. 
Outside of the grand finals races, the Irish were also perfect in their other competitions, including the second varsity four and third var­sity eight. 
“It took a lot of work for us to win all of the races,” Meyers said. “Some of the boats have raced three weeks in a row, and we have had a lot of competition.” 
The sweep of the grand finals bodes well for the Big East champi­onship on May 13. 
“I think the wins are a huge mo­mentum push, especially because we race a lot of these teams again in the Big East championship,” Meyers said. “Historically, at the end of the semester, we gain speed and now we’re ready to go for the Big East.” 
The Irish head to Mercer, N.J., to face off against Big East foes again in the Big East championship on May 13. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at                        ecleofe@nd.edu 


pick up Mike because we heard he didn’t have a team.” 
Between Van Harmelen’s sharpshooting and Brogham­mer’s dominance in the post, SWAG was able to gain an early advantage over its opponent. SWAG created open shots against The Legacy of Alex Klupchak’s 2-3 zone, and Broghammer was a force in the middle, Van Harmelen said. 
“With Mike in the middle, it causes double or triple teams and we are able to find open shots on the perimeter,” Van Harmelen said. 
With the score at 18-6, Van Harmelen relayed the ball up the court to Broghammer, who flushed down a two-handed dunk to put the game definitively out of reach. Broghammer racked up double-digit points and rebounds. 
The Legacy of Alex Klupchak, composed of graduate students Bryan Pasciak, John Rompf, Zan­der Shadley, Fritz Shadley and Mauri Miller, had the upper hand in experience. Rompf’s old team, Saturdays in America, won the Bookstore championship last year. With a new group of players on his team this season, Rompf managed to return to the Final Four before losing. 
“Don’t let the score fool you,” Van Harmelen said. “That was a very good team and if a few shots had dropped for them, that could have been a very different game.” 
After winning the semifinal game, all attention turned to Sun­day night’s championship match-up, as SWAG prepared to take on Hoops We Did It Again. 
“The other team nobody knew about coming in, so we don’t know that much about what to expect,” Van Harmelen said. “They are definitely a very good team, and we will just continue to do what we have been doing and get ready for tomorrow.” 
Contact Brendan Bell at                        bbell2@nd.edu and Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Monday, April 30, 2012 

SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles split doubleheader, earn spot in tournament 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Entering Senior Day on Sunday, the Belles knew they needed at least a dou­bleheader split against sec-ond-place Alma to earn a spot in the top four of the MIAA and qualify for the conference tournament. They did just that with a dramatic, Selner (17-7) earned the win, as she held the Scots to just one run on six hits in seven innings. Selner struck out six batters and allowed her only run on an RBI double in the third. 
“Callie was incredible today, and it was the best I’ve seen her throw all year,” Sul­livan said. “She kept hitters off­balanc e, 

come-from-and did a
“I asked our girls to keep 
behind 2-1 tremendous 
it together and at least 
win in the job of lo-
win one of two. To do 
first game cating her 
it in the first game was 
before drop-pitches. If 
fantastic, and to reach the 
ping the sec-she pitches ond game, conference tournament like that in 1-0, in eight is a privilege for us.” the tour-innings. nament, With the we have a 
Erin Sullivan 
split, the good shot 
Belles coach 
Belles (27­11, 10-6 MIAA) qual­ified for the MIAA tour­nament for the first time since 2010 and tied a program record for regular season wins, previously set in 2006. Add­ing to the challenge of mak­ing the tournament is the difficulty of the nine-team MIAA, in which four teams are ranked in the top-eight in the NCAA Midwest Re­gion. 
“It was tough going into Senior Day with a top-four spot in the conference in the line,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “I asked our girls to keep it together and at least win one of two. To do it in the first game was fantastic, and to reach the conference tournament is a privilege for us.” 
The Belles trailed the Scots (25-11, 11-5) 1-0 en­tering the bottom of the seventh against Alma ju­nior pitcher Louise Rezmer. Their rally started when Belles senior second base­man Angela Gillis reached base on a fielding error by the Alma second baseman. Freshman first baseman Jordie Wasserman lined a single to left to put runners on first and second with none out. 
However, two of the next three batters struck out, leaving the Belles down to their final out with the bas­es loaded and senior center fielder Lauren Enayati at the plate. On the sixth pitch of the at-bat, Enayati lofted a ball over the pitcher and in front of second base for an infield RBI single. 
With the game tied at one, freshman right fielder Vic­toria Connelly sent a sharp ground ball to third base­man Lea Lusk, who tried to fire home for the force-out. However, her throw was high and wide, and Wasser­man scored the game-win­ning run. 
“The throw was errant, and the catcher wasn’t ex­pecting a play at the plate with two out,” Sullivan said. “But our two slap hitters came through in the clutch for us.” 
Sophomore pitcher Callie to win.” 
In the 
second 
game, the 
Belles of­
fense was limited to just three hits by Rezmer, who struck out 17 batters over the course of the two games. Selner, however, matched her as both pitchers had shutouts through the seventh in­ning. In the bottom of the eighth, Alma put runners on first and third with one out. Scots senior first base­man Emily Ross executed a suicide squeeze bunt for the game-winning run. 
With the regular season concluded, the Belles will next play in the confer­ence tournament May 3 at Trine, which finished first in the MIAA standings. The tournament is double-elimination, with the win­ner earning an automatic bid to the NCAA Division III tournament. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
Halfpenny 
continued from page 20 
were limited a bit, and credit to both of the de­fenses we played against in both Georgetown and Northwestern, but at the same time, we really lim­ited ourselves … We fo­cused … on getting back to moving the ball, and then taking advantage of the opportunities,” she said. 
In the second half, the Irish offense was less prolific in terms of goals scored, but equally domi­nant in possession and control. Among Notre Dame’s five second-half goals were tallies by se­nior defender Jordy Shoe­maker and graduate stu­dent defender Brittany Mallory, who both depos­ited a goal for the first time this season. 
Halfpenny said the goals by the defenders were not the result of players showing off. 
“It’s fun. It’s not show­boating by any means, we want our defenders to be able to go forward because there are some games where the defense 


is limiting your of­fense and you need a spark,” Halfpenny said. “You need to start some momen­tum and defense is open, they should go to goal. That’s part of your job on the field.” 
In total, 13 Irish players re­

“I was the most excited about how many helpers we had ... That means you’re working as a unit and that’s exciting.” 
Christine Halfpenny Irish coach 
corded goals in the game on 38 shots, many of which came at the door­step of the Bearcats’ net. The 22 goals tie a pro­gram home record, and the 20-goal margin of vic­tory is the largest in pro­gram history. 
The Irish were equally successful on the defen­sive end, where they sur­rendered just six shots and two goals, both of which came in the game’s early minutes. The complete ef­
fort made for a spe­cial day for the seniors, Halfpenny said. 
“It’s so much fun. I think our whole team from top to bot­tom made this such a special day for the se­niors,” the first -year coach said. “It’s so spe­cial. It’s so cool. They 
all had outstanding games. They came in, worked hard . it’s what they’ve been do­ing for four years.” 
Eight Notre Dame seniors shared the honors on Se­nior Day, as Mallory, Shoe­maker, defender Kristin DeRespiris, attack Kelly Driscoll and Maggie Tama­sitis and midfielders Flan­nery Nangle, Kate Newall and Megan Sullivan en­joyed their final home ac­tion. 
On a day where every­thing went right for the home team, Halfpenny said Notre Dame’s 10 assists stood out most. Six of the assists came from Tamasi­tis, who tabbed a confer-ence-record 31 assists in Big East play this season. 
“I was the most excited about how many helpers we had,” Halfpenny said. “[It was] not just the 22 goals, but the fact that so many were assisted. That means that you’re working as a unit and that’s exciting. That’s a good confidence­[builder] heading into Loyola on Thursday for our first round Big East game.” 
The No. 3 seed Irish will look to avenge last year’s conference championship loss when they take on sec­ond-seeded Loyola (Md.) in the first round of the Big East tournament in Syra­cuse, N.Y., on Thursday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


Monday, April 30, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 

TRACK AND FIELD 

Athletes perform in final meets before Big East championship 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
In their final weekend before the Big East outdoor champion­ships, the Irish had a successful weekend, with the team splitting up once again. While some ath­letes participated at the Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa, a separate contingent made the trip to Hillsdale, Mich., for the Hillsdale Gina Relays. 
At the Hillsdale Gina Relays, Irish sophomore thrower An­drew Brock turned in a second-place finish in the shot put with a throw of 16.66-meters. The meet offered a final preparation before the conference champi­onships and served its purpose, Brock said. 
“The competition wasn’t like the competition we will be see­ing at the Big East meet, but there were definitely some good performers there,” he said. “It was nice to have a meet where we can all go and get six throws in before we go to Big Easts. 
“Next week, when we go to Big Easts, we need a solid three throws on our first three at­tempts to make sure we make the finals, and then another solid three throws, so that was the real benefit this weekend — being able to get six throws in. 
We really emphasized that this week.” 
Friday’s runner-up finish was Brock’s third consecutive top-two result, and comes a week af­ter he set a personal-best throw of 17.20-meters at the Polytan In­vitational. For he and his team­mates it is important to perform well heading into the Big East championships, Brock said. 
“Second, first, third, however we all came in, it is … a good confidence boost coming into Big Easts,” the Seymour, Ind., native said. 
Among the number of Irish athletes who participated in the Drake Relays over the weekend was freshman sprinter Chris Gi­esting, who participated in the 4x400-meter relay. His foursome finished ninth overall, just 0.2 seconds shy of making the last spot in the finals. 
“It was kind of a disappoint­ment,” Giesting said. “We want­ed to make the finals, which is kind of a difficult thing to do since there are a lot of good teams that go there. But we came in seeded sixth … we got second in our heat, which is usually good enough to go to the finals, but there were a few teams that snuck ahead based on times.” 
The Irish women’s 4x800­
SMC TENNIS 

Belles finish MIAA with loss to Hope 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles struggled in the last of their eight conference matchups Saturday against Hope, losing 8-1. Saint Mary’s had already been ruled out of the MIAA championships after a loss to Kalamazoo on Tuesday, and following Sat­urday’s loss, it will finish the season sixth in the MIAA. 
“[Hope] is a really good team, but that wasn’t really our best effort,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. 
Against Hope (16-7, 8-0 MIAA), the Belles (10-9, 3-5 MIAA) encountered more dif­ficulty in doubles than usual. Doubles is typically a strong suit for Saint Mary’s, pro­pelling the team to a strong start. Despite a strong effort, the Belles only claimed one victory in the three doubles matches against Hope. Fresh­men Shannon Elliott and Kay­le Sexton won 8-5 at the sec­ond doubles. 
“We played well in doubles, winning the one doubles match,” Campbell said. 
“That was a pretty good match there for us at the sec­ond doubles.” 
When all was said and done, the victory ended up being the sole win for the Belles. 
“I think we fought well in doubles, but we were a little overmatched in total,” Camp­bell said. 
In singles, the Belles strug­gled even more, as Hope man­aged to sweep the Belles, tak­ing all six matches. 
“I was a bit disappointed in singles,” Campbell said. “We didn’t really show our best ef­fort.” 
Sophomore Mary Cath­erine Faller played the most competitive match for the Belles. Faller challenged her opponent in the second set, but lost the match 6-2, 7-5. 
“[Faller] gave their No. 1 a very good battle,” Campbell said. “That was definitely impressive.” 
Though the Belles lost handedly to Hope, the Flying Dutch’s victory was not en­tirely surprising. Hope has gone on to have a very suc­cessful season, finishing at the top of the MIAA. Satur­day’s victory capped an un­defeated season in the MIAA for the Flying Dutch, who notched their 16th win on the season. As a result, Hope rounded out the weekend ranked No. 17 in the region. 
“They are just a very ath­letic team who don’t miss a lot of shots,” Campbell said. “They have a lot of good ath­letes and are really deep all the way down their roster.” 
After a rough week, the Belles will look to end their season on positive note. Saint Mary’s travels to North Central today for its last match of the season. 
“We still want to win, but it’s really about getting experience at this point,” Campbell said. “Tomorrow is about competing, expe­rience and having a strong finish.” 
Saint Mary’s will look to fulfill these goals when they challenge North Central at 4 
p.m. in Naperville, Ill. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
meter team, composed of sopho­mores Kelly Curran and Alexa Aragon, senior Allison Schro­eder and junior Rebecca Tracy, captured a first-place finish with a time of 8:35.89, while the men’s 4x800-meter team finished third in 7:25.88. Also turning in a strong performance for the Irish was the women’s 4x400-meter relay team, which used a personal-record time of 
3:40.76 to earn a sixth-place finish. Irish senior pole vaulter Kevin Schipper continued his impressive outdoor season by coming in second with a height of 5.30-meters. 
Overall, the Notre Dame ath­letes were pleased with their performance at the Drake Re­lays, Giesting said. 
“It was pretty much a success­ful weekend for everyone,” the freshman said. “It was a good experience for the people that went.” 
Notre Dame has split the team between two or even three meets during recent weekends, and the strategy is ultimately beneficial to the athletes, Brock said. 
“When we go to different meets, it definitely makes it difficult for us to know who our teammates are because we can’t always see them per­form,” he said. “What it does do is always make sure that we are performing at a place that is the best environment for us. When we split up as a team, we are making sure that as throw­ers we are going to [compete against] high-quality perfor­mance throwers that are able to give us a challenge to help us prepare for Big Easts. With the runners, when [they] go to other meets that we aren’t at, they are going against runners that give them better competition.” 


The Irish will participate in the Big East outdoor champion­ships beginning Friday in Tam­pa, Fla. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


ND SOFTBALL 

Irish sweep Friars with hot bats 
By MEGAN FINNERAN the sixth inning when Sports Writer senior designated hit­
ter Kasey O’Connor hit a 

A fourth-inning grand three-run home run. slam from senior first “The key to all those baseman Dani Miller pro-wins this past weekend pelled the Irish to a 14-2 was our bats,” Buntin win Sunday, providing the said. “We have a wicked perfect ending to a week-offense, with speed to get end series against Provi-on base, then powerhit­dence,. Notre Dame ended ters to knock those run-the series with yet an-ners in.” other string of wins, leav-Sophomore pitcher Lau­ing Providence, R.I., with ra Winter held her ground a three-game sweep and without allowing a hit un­11-game winning streak. til the fifth inning. She 
“The team morale is at a allowed Providence fresh-great place right now with man first baseman Kristie 
the postsea- Deder ick’s  
son  right  t  h  re  e  - 
around  the  run  home  
corner,  and  run in the  
each  game  bottom  of  
we have helps bu i ld the team energ y,” ju­n ior catcher  “I don’t think the thought of not winning ever crossed anyone’s mind on the team.”  the sixth, but Win­ter soon r e g a i n e d control.  
Amysaid.   Buntin  Amy Butin  s  Ine c   the o n d  
The  Irish  Irish catcher  g  a  m  e  ,  

(32-13, 13-3 Big East) cruised past the Friars (15­34, 6-12) in Saturday’s doubleheader, winning the games 5-3 and 8-4, respectively. The week­end started calmly with no runs from either team in the first three innings. Miller then shook up the action with a home run in the fourth, smashing a ball through a car wind­shield outside the fence. A team effort brought soph­omore shortstop Chloe Sa­ganowich safely to home plate in the fifth, giving the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
The Irish extended the lead to 5-0 in the top of Provi­
dence took 
an early 
2-0 lead 
in the first inning. The Friars were able to keep the lead at two for the first two in­nings, until Irish fresh­man third baseman Katey Haus’ single in the top of the third sent senior cen­ter fielder Alexa Maldo­nado home for the first run. 
Once Irish junior pitch­er Brittany O’Donnell grew comfortable on the mound, Providence had difficulty scoring. A four-run fifth inning gave the Irish their first lead of the game. 
Buntin cushioned the lead with a two-run home run in the sixth and, de­spite three Irish errors in the game and two late runs for the Friars in the seventh inning, Notre Dame managed to hold on for the win. 
Sweeping the double­header earned the Irish a seat in the 2012 Big East championship,, carrying excitement over into the next day. Between a grand slam by Miller and two homers from Maldonado, it only took five innings for the Irish to close the weekend with a third win. 
Buntin paved the way, scoring in the second off a RBI from O’Connor. A home run from Maldonado in the third brought the lead up to 2-0. 
Then in the fourth, the offense exploded. 
Miller’s grand slam, combined with four more runs, gave the Irish a 10-0 lead. Despite two runs from the Friars in the fourth inning, the Irish cruised on to the victory. Winter allowed three hits in the game and Notre Dame closed the contest with four more runs in the fifth inning. 
“I don’t think the thought of not winning ever crossed anyone’s mind on the team,” Bun-tin said. “Even when we’re behind, our hitters always find a way to pro­duce runs.” 
The Irish next face Northern Illinois on Tues­day in Melissa Cook Sta­dium, with the first pitch delivered at 5 p.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 

page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Monday, April 30, 2012 
Corrigan 
continued from page 20 
our guys come out aggres­sively and [getting] that first goal kind of helps everybody relax.” 
Junior midfielder Pat Cotter increased the lead to 4-0 in the second quar­ter and junior goalie John Kemp and the rest of the Irish defense shut out Syr­acuse for the remainder of the half. Kemp was recently named a nominee for the Tewaaraton Trophy, given to the most outstanding col­legiate lacrosse player. 
“John’s terrific,” Corrigan said. “He’s the best goal­ie in the country. He may be the best player in the country. I keep hearing all these people talk about all these offensive guys for the Tewaaraton and I’m won­dering why John’s not part of that conversation. If you watch him every day, you sure think he’s terrific.” 
The Orange came back in the second half, howev­er, with two goals to make it 4-2. The teams battled back and forth for the rest of the quarter before Or­ange junior midfielder JoJo Marasco scored early in the fourth to cut the Irish lead to 6-4. 
Orange coach John Des­ko said a change in shoot­ing strategy prompted the comeback. 
“We changed our shooting in the second half, which I thought was good,” Desko said. “We started to go up top after we shot a lot of them down low. We were able to crawl back in it.” 
The teams exchanged goals early in the final quarter before Syracuse se­nior midfielder Bobby Eilers blasted a shot past Kemp at the 7:43 mark to bring the Orange within one at 7-6. 
Just 33 seconds later Notre Dame freshman mid­fielder Will Corrigan came in from the right side and found the back of the cage to put the lead back at two. 
For the last seven min­utes of play the staunch Irish defense forced numer­ous turnovers in a tightly-contested final period that culminated in an 8-6 win for the Irish. 
The win finalized an un­defeated Big East season for Notre Dame, who now turns its attention to post­season play. The Irish will be the top seed in the Big East tournament when they take on St. John’s in the semifinals Thursday. Notre Dame defeated the Red Storm 13-6 on April 1. 
“It’s going to be a chal­lenge with St. John’s,” Kev­in Corrigan said. “They’re a very good team. We just played them less than a month ago. The good news is we don’t need to start over in our preparation for somebody. For once in the season, we get to rely on already a little prior knowledge of somebody. It’s still going to be quite a challenge and they’ve been playing really well recent­ly.” 
Notre Dame begins its postseason play Thursday at 4:30 p.m. when it squares off with the Red Storm in the Big East semifinals in Villanova, Pa. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Belles qualify for NCAA Tournament 
Observer Staff Report a 22-stroke advantage over second place Hope after the 
Qualifying for the NCAA first two rounds, and held on championships has be-to the lead Saturday. come a regular occur-On Saturday, Saint Mary’s rence for the Saint Mary’s tied with Olivet on the final golf team, as the Belles day of competition as both punched their fourth teams shot scores of 328. straight ticket to the One shot behind Saint Mary’s NCAA Division III cham-and Olivet was Hope, which pionships at Zollner Golf shot a score of 329. Course in Angola, Ind. Sophomore Doyle O’Brien 
Saturday’s MIAA confer-once again took charge for ence qualifying tourna-the Belles and shot a 77, with ment was the culmination a front-nine score of 38 and of a three-day competi-a back-nine 39.  O’Brien shot tion that the Belles had the lowest score in each of control over since the the three conference tour-first tee. Saint Mary’s had nament rounds for Saint Mary’s. 
Senior captain Christine Brown took 16 strokes off her last performance and shot an 81 which was good enough for the second lowest score of the day for Saint Mary’s. 
The Belles’ Saturday per­formance followed two earli­er rounds in which the team shot scores of 324 and 334. The first round score of 324 put the Belles ahead by 21 strokes over the field, and they managed to remain in first after the second round 
334. The cumulative score of 986 ended up 23 strokes ahead of second place Hope. 
Saint Mary’s played at Zollner Golf Course in the fall and shot a team score of 342, but with a new cast of golfers returned from study­ing abroad, Saint Mary’s will look to shoot a much low­er score this time around. Against the most competitive field Saint Mary’s has faced all year, the Belles will rely on consistent performances across the board.  Methodist University has won the Divi­sion III NCAA championship a remarkable 12 times in a row. The Belles will tee off as the tournament begins May 8 in Angola, Ind. 
PGA TOUR 

Dufner defeats Els in playoff, earns first victory 
AVONDALE, La. — Jason Dufner was more nervous about a putt under 2 feet on a playoff hole at the Zu­rich Classic than about get­ting married next weekend. His recent late-tournament struggles made it easy to un­derstand why. 
“There’s a been a good bit of pressure,” Dufner said. “Peo­ple talking about, ‘Why aren’t you winning? Why can’t you close the deal? ... Friends, family, media, even people in my inner circle. And not in a negative way, but when you’re leading tournaments going into weekends and you’re fin­ishing 24th, there’s going to be some questions.” 
Not anymore. 
Dufner maintained his composure through not one, but two playoff holes against one of the more accomplished veterans in the game Sunday, beating Ernie Els with a bird­ie on their second extra trip up the par-5 18th to win for the first time in 164 starts on the PGA Tour. 
The win should also stamp out some of the bad memo­ries haunting Dufner since the Masters, when he shared the lead after two rounds but faded to 24th. The 35-year-old Dufner also held five previous leads through two rounds — two this year, only to fade down the stretch. 

Entering the fourth round with a two-shot lead in New Orleans, Dufner shot a 2-under 70 at TPC Louisiana, while Els had a 67 to match Dufner for a course-record 19-under 269 total. 
Both missed birdie putts within 8 feet in the first playoff, so they went back to the 18th tee for the second extra hole, which Dufner won by hitting the green in two strokes and tapping home a short birdie putt after Els’ birdie attempt from the fringe narrowly missed. 
Dufner lost playoffs last year to Mark Wilson in the Phoenix Open and Keegan Bradley in the PGA Championship for two of his three career runner-up finishes. 
“It’s always really tough play­ing on Sundays whether you’re in the lead or middle of the pack, and today I was fighting, trying to win an event, and I think I showed myself a good bit out there,” Dufner said. “It was tough. Ernie made a great run at me and it felt like with five or six holes (to go) we were prob­ably going to be battling for the win. 
“To get the monkey off of my back, it’s a great feeling.” 
The 6-foot-3 Els, who goes by the nickname “The Big Easy,” hasn’t won on the PGA Tour since the 2010 Arnold Palmer Invitational at Bay Hill, a little more than two years ago. 


He did not have a single bo­gey in the final round or playoff, and would have won his 19th career PGA Tour title in, of all places, the Big Easy, if he could have made a birdie putt of a little less than 6 feet on the first playoff hole. He pushed it more than 2 feet past the edge of the hole. 


Monday, April 30, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
HOROSCOPE EUgENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 


HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE

LONDON EXPRESS LEE HAggENJOS and ALEx gRISWOLD 
MIKE ARgIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, April 30, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 

MEN’S LACROSSE 

Ending with a first 
Strong start lifts Notre Dame past Syracuse in last game of season 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Three months after the men’s basketball team up­set then-No. 1 Syracuse at Purcell Pavilion, the No. 3 Irish lacrosse squad got a similarly monumental win over the No. 17 Orange with an 8-6 victory Saturday at Arlotta Stadium. 
Notre Dame (11-1, 6-0 Big East) defeated Syracuse (7­7, 3-3) for the first time in program history and ended the regular season on a 10­game win streak. 
Despite the historic vic­tory, Irish coach Kevin Cor­rigan said the team is sim­ply happy to end the season on a positive note. 
“It’s a great win for this team and a great win to end our regular season on a good note,” Corrigan said. “I have a feeling we’re go­ing to see this team again in seven days [in the Big East tournament]. We’re just happy to get a [win] today and get out of there with that.” 
The Irish got out to a quick start when sopho­more midfielder Jim Mar­latt ripped his 15th goal of the season into the top right corner of the cage less than two minutes into the game. 
Later in the first quarter, sophomore attack Westy Hopkins and junior mid­fielder Ryan Foley added goals to make it a three-goal lead. 
Corrigan said it was important for his team to come out of the gates strong and open with quick goals, especially against a squad in search of a note­worthy win. 
“I thought that was really important for us in terms of being able to relax,” Cor­rigan said. “We knew they were going to come after us. This is a team that, like a lot of teams we’ve played recently, needs a win. At this point, we’re a good win. We knew they were going to come after us a little bit. I was glad to see 
see CORRIGAN/page 18 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish throttle Bearcats in regular-season finale 

By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Saturday’s game against Cincinnati was more than just a normal lacrosse game in Arlotta Stadium. The contest served as Notre Dame’s final game of the regular season, Senior Day and the Lax for the Cure game. But even with the many accompanying occasions, the No. 6 Irish managed to handle the la­crosse portion of the day quite skillfully with a 22-2 victory. 
Entering the regular sea­son finale after a 17-7 loss to No. 1 Northwestern on Wednesday, Notre Dame (13-3, 6-2 Big East) exited the gates on fire, with four goals in the first 5:01. The Irish reached the seven-goal mark they were held to against the Wildcats (16-1, 4-1 ALC) less than 11 minutes into Saturday’s meeting with Cincinnati (3­12, 0-8). 
Notre Dame’s rapid scor­ing pace barely slowed from there, as the Irish used contributions from 11 different goal-scorers to gather a 17-2 advantage by halftime. The offensive outpouring was a welcome change from the relative futility the Irish had expe­rienced in their previous two outings, Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said. 
“The last two games we 
see HALFPENNY/page 16 


ND SOCCER 

Women win, men lose to international opponents 
By ANDREW GASTELUM and JOSEPH MONARDO 
Associate Sports Editor and Sports Writer 
The Irish men welcomed the Mexico under-20 national team for their final outing of the spring exhibition season. But along with the team, a large contingent of Mexico fans accepted the invita­tion to Alumni Stadium, watching the Irish fall 1-0. 
For Notre Dame, an early own goal marred the score line. The game’s lone score came in the 23rd minute off Mexico midfielder Alfonso Gonzalez’s cross that was redirected into the Irish net by a Notre Dame defender as it crossed the face of the frame. 
Despite the own goal and the loss, the Irish can take plenty of positives from the outing, Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
“I think you’ve got to take the positive side to this game. I think we played very well … even in the first half,” he said. “I think it took us a little while to get our confi­dence. The Mexican team is very technical, very good with the ball and it took us a little time, but once we got our confidence and started stepping and winning the ball, we 
see CLARK/page 14 


BASEBALL 

Red Storm win series behind strong pitching 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish lost an early lead against St. John’s in the first game of Friday’s doubleheader and never recovered, losing both Fri­day games by the score 6-4 and dropping Sunday’s de­cision, 3-1. 
Although the two games of Friday’s doublehead­er ended with identical scores, the Irish (22-20, 9-9 Big East) found oppo­site ways of getting there. 
Notre Dame jumped out to the lead in the first game, as junior second baseman Frank DeSico and sopho­more first baseman Trey Mancini scored on a wild pitch and a bunt single, re­spectively, in the first in­ning. 

Senior righthander Will Hudgins (3-2) went 8.2 in­nings and gave up just one earned run in the longest outing of his career, but most of the damage came as a result of the team’s five defensive errors. The first two came in the top of the sixth, when Mancini 
see ST. JOHN’S/page 13 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
‘Hoops’ takes championship 
By MIKE MONACO and BRENDAN BELL Sports Writers 

With the rain pouring down, No. 3 Hoops We Did It Again used the hot shooting of Notre Dame Sports Properties employee Beau Bauer to defeat No. 4 SWAG 22-20 in the championship game Sun­day at the Bookstore courts. 
Bauer led the way with 12 points, including the game win­ner from three-point range, to propel his squad past SWAG — comprised of juniors Tebo Bar­nett, Ryan Dunbar, Nate Carr, Mike Broghammer and senior Tim Van Harmelen. 
“It was a physical game,” Dunbar said. “We definitely 
see DUNBAR/page 16 





