
Unbearable 
Baylor center Griner scores 26, grabs 13 rebounds as Lady Bears down Notre Dame in national championship 

By CHRIS MASOUD like their victory over No. 2 sessions. ket.” achieve 142 wins and reach Senior Sports Writer Stanford in the national semifi-But momentum turned when Griner and the Lady Bears four Sweet Sixteens, two Final 
nals, the No. 1 Lady Bears (40-Peters was sent to the bench took advantage of Peters’ ab-Fours and two national cham-
DENVER — The scene was 0) broke the game open in the just two minutes and 38 sec-sence on both ends of the floor, pionship games. all too familiar. The buzzer second half, outscor-outscoring Notre “It’s just a great senior class. sounded, the confetti fell and ing the Irish 46-33. Dame 40 to 22 I know me watching their Notre Dame was denied in the Irish junior guard in the paint and whole careers on the sidelines 
“I think there was some 
national championship for a Skylar Diggins paced outrebounding — just amazing what they’ve second consecutive season. Notre Dame with 20 the Irish 46 to been able to do, [bringing] this 

frustration that everybody 
Baylor looked every bit like points and sopho-27. Baylor soph-program back to an elite pro-the national favorite that had more guard Kayla omore guard gram and being able to lead 

didn’t play as well as they 
not lost a game all season, McBride added 11, Odyssey Sims this team to back-to-back na­blowing past the Irish 80-61 but the rest of the contributed 19 tional championship games,” 

wanted to, but it’s still pretty 
to claim the program’s second Irish were plagued points and seven Irish coach Muffet McGraw national title. Naismith Player by cold shooting. rebounds cap-said. “I hate that it ends on a 

much the same [feeling]” 
of the Year Brittney Griner led “We just kept dig-taining the Lady game like this because you fail the Lady Bears with 26 points, ging ourselves into Bears front-to see everything they did to 13 rebounds and five assists, as a hole by not taking court. get to this point.” Baylor became the first team in our shots,” Diggins “It’s frustrat-Notre Dame returns just two 


Muffet McGraw 

Division I basketball history to said. “I don’t think ing,” Peters said. starters, Diggins and McBride, finish a season 40-0. we were taking the Irish coach “But you can’t but McGraw said several bench 
“I think it hurts no matter shots that we had knock what the players are ready to step into how much you lose by,” Irish and when we were, team has done larger roles next season. coach Muffet McGraw said. “I we weren’t shooting them con-onds into the game after pick-this year in being able to get to Diggins added that her role think the feeling last year was fidently … We spent a lot of en-ing up two quick fouls. back-to-back Final Fours and as a leader will also expand a little different, more of ‘We ergy chasing.” “When we got into foul trou-back-to-back national cham-as Notre Dame’s lone return-kind of let it slip away,’ but McGraw’s game plan was ble, it just destroyed our game pionships. We’ve just done so ing senior starter and its top this game got out of hand. I simple and effective in the plan,” McGraw said. “We really much and my teammates have scorer. think there was some frustra-opening minutes: double-team needed Devereaux — she was stepped up when they needed “I’ve got to be a better job tion that everybody didn’t play Griner on defense and engage a big part of the plan and we to.” being a leader,” she said. “I as well as they wanted to, but the center on offense before didn’t have her … But in the Peters, senior guards Nata-thought I didn’t have very good it’s still pretty much the same finding the backdoor cut. Dig-second half we were afraid to lie Novosel and Fraderica leadership there tonight as far [feeling].” gins and Irish graduate stu-foul, and every time Brittney Miller and graduate student as keeping our fire, but I’ll be 
No. 4 Notre Dame (35-4) kept dent forward Devereaux Peters got the ball, even when we guard Brittany Mallory leave better. I promise.” the contest close in the first scored a quick five points on brought the double team, we behind quite a legacy. During half, heading into the break two field goals and a foul shot didn’t really lean on her and their combined five-year ten-Contact Chris Masoud at down by just six points. But in Notre Dame’s first three pos-she got really close to the bas-ure, they helped Notre Dame cmasoud@nd.edu 

By the numbers 
1 17 46 0 3 63 6 2 
Baylor becomes the first team in NCAA basketball history to win 40 games in one season while going undefeated on the year. 
Points scored by Brittney Griner in the second half. Griner finished with 26 points, 13 rebounds and five blocks and earned MVP honors for the national championship. 
Rebounds by Baylor, compared to Notre Dame’s 27. The Lady Bears also record­ed 16 offensive rebounds, compared to Notre Dame’s nine. 
Shots made by senior guard Natalie No­vosel in the game. The guard went 0-for­11 against the solid Baylor defense in 30 minutes of play. 
The Baylor lead with 15:09 left in the second half before graduate student forward Devereaux Peters picked up her fourth foul and went to the bench. 
Percent shooting for Baylor in the sec­ond half. The Lady Bears ended the game shooting 50 percent on 29-of-58 shooting. 
The number of wins Baylor had this season over teams ranked in the top-10 in the polls. 
Consecutive years the Irish have lost to a Texas team in the national champion­ship game while wearing green. 
The attendance at the Pur­cell Pavilion for the national 
1,038 championship game watch. 
Wins by the senior class of Natalie Novosel, Brittany Mallory, Devereaux 
117 Peters and Fraderica Miller. 



Baylor deserved win, but ND will be back 
DENVER — Last year Notre Dame ran into a buzzsaw. Texas A&M had beaten Baylor and Stanford on its way to the cham­pionship game. This year, Notre Dame hit a brick wall in the form of 6-foot-8 Brittney Griner and Baylor. 
When it boils down, Baylor was the better team Tuesday. There is ab­solutely no doubt about that. The Lady Bears solidified their year­long assertion they are the best team in the country. 
While the pressure should have been entirely on Baylor, Notre Dame was the team who came out tight. Devereaux Peters picked up two quick fouls, Natalie Novosel could not hit a shot and no one beside Skylar Diggins or Kayla McBride looked willing to step up and make a play. One bright spot was the play of Natalie Achonwa and Markisha Wright, who did ev­erything they could to slow down Griner. 
But, like Dan Patrick used to 

Matthew Robison 
Sports Writer 

say, you can’t stop her, you can only hope to contain her. Griner got hers, as expected — but the Baylor supporting cast stepped up as well. Odyssey Sims effectively controlled the pace and Destiny Williams pounded the offensive glass. 
There was a question as to whether Griner’s physical presence and the Lady Bears’ undefeated re­cord created a psychological com­ponent to beating Baylor. Looking at the way the Irish played, I don’t really think that is a question any­more. The Lady Bears were physi­cally, mentally and psychologically dominant throughout the game. 
When it all boils down, Baylor simply outperformed Notre Dame. The Lady Bears came ready to play, they executed on their game plan and they made shots. They deserved the title. 
It is yet to be seen how Notre Dame will recover from a second consecutive loss in the national title game. As heartbroken as the team was last year, this one has to sting even more. The worst part about the loss might be that this was probably Notre Dame’s best chance to win a title since 2001. 
Before the game against Con­necticut, Huskies coach Geno Auriemma said Notre Dame lacked a weakness. The Irish had great guards, a strong corps of seniors and solid post players. Unfortu­nately, the pieces just did not fall into place when it mattered most. 
Diggins has made an incredible impact on the program, but one has to wonder if her legacy will be shadowed if she fails to take home a championship during her career. Undoubtedly, Mallory, Peters and Novosel all had tremendous ca­reers. But none of them have quite the reputation Diggins carries. 
This generation’s great players 
—
 Diana Taurasi, Candace Parker, Maya Moore, even Brittney Griner 

—
 all have titles. Right or wrong, people will hesitate to put Diggins in that category if she does not win a championship for Notre Dame. 


There is a bright side to all the heartbreak. Among all the ques­tions, all the uncertainty, one thing is for sure. McGraw has turned the Irish into an elite pro­gram. 
If the play of freshman Wright, sophomore Achonwa and sopho­more McBride on Tuesday is any indication, the future of the Irish is blindingly bright. 
Notre Dame will be back. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 



Howard wins Hall of the Year 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
While students fiercely contest which residence hall is the best dorm on campus, only residents of Howard Hall can truth­fully make that claim this year. 
Hall Presidents’ Council named Howard the 2012 overall Hall of the Year on Tuesday night. Carroll Hall was awarded men’s Hall of the Year, and Ryan Hall earned women’s Hall of the Year honors. 
Seniors Jay Mathes and Billy Wardlaw, executive co-chairs of Hall Presi­dents’ Council, said they modified the Hall of the Year selection process this year to “make it a more democratic voting pro­cess,” Mathes said. 
Wardlaw said each hall gave a presentation to Hall Presidents’ Council, and the winners were chosen based on a point system. 
Howard Hall was rec­ognized as the best dorm on campus for its devel­opment of a family atmo­

see HOWARD/page 8 



Fans react to championship loss 

By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Playing in their second national championship game in as many years, the Notre Dame women’s bas­ketball team ended their otherwise stellar season with a disappointing 80-61 loss to Baylor in Denver on Tuesday evening. 
To rally student and com­munity support for the Irish, the Student Activi­ties Office, the Leprechaun Legion and the Athletics Department hosted a game watch at Purcell Pavilion. 

Leprechaun Legion presi­dent Matthew Cunningham said the goal of the event was to show support for the team even though the game took place halfway across the country. 
“Our whole goal [as an or­ganization] is to get people to go to games and support the teams, so this event helped support the team because not many people could make it to Denver,” he said. 
Legion executive vice president Kristen Stouten-burgh said the student turnout was impressive. Joyce Center officials said 1,038 people attended the game watch in Purcell. 
“We are so pleased with the turnout,” Stoutenburgh said. “We really didn’t know what to expect, especially with the short amount of time.” 
At last year’s national championship game in In­dianapolis, Saint Mary’s ju­nior Heidi Ryan accompa­nied the team as a member of the band’s drumline. She said attending the game watch in Purcell was much different from attending the actual game in person. 
“The crowd was more 


see IRISH/page 5 


Dyngus Day celebrations combine religion and politics 
By MARISA IATI 


By ADRIANA PRATT 
Associate News Editor Senior Staff Writer 
There is no St. Dyngus. But 

A day of indulgence takes South Bend celebrates Dyngus 
over South Bend on Easter Day the way the Irish observe 
Monday, a celebration meant St. Patrick’s Day, with crowds 
to both kick off the political drawn to bars, restaurants and 
season and mark the end of clubs for ethnic food, music and 
Lent. Polka music is played, plenty of liquid refreshment. 
kielbasa is eaten and Fr. Former St. Joseph County 
Leonard Chrobot whips out Democratic Chairman Owen 
his special multi-colored vest 
D. “Butch” Morgan said South 

from Poland. Everybody is Bend’s Dyngus Day celebration 
Polish on Dyngus Day. on Easter Monday has been 
“After Lent, it’s kind of a an opportunity for community 
release, so everybody does members to meet candidates 
crazy things,” Chrobot, pas-for local, state and national po­
tor of St. Patrick’s and St. litical offices since the 1930s. 
Hedwig’s Catholic churches “It allowed people who may 
in South Bend, said. not have access to the candi-
South Bend’s West Side dates an opportunity to [do so] 
Democratic and Civic Club now that they were going to be 
will host the day’s primary here at the [West Side Demo-
event, which falls on April cratic and Civic] Club,” Morgan 
9 this year. The club touts 
Photo courtesy of www.dyngusdaybuffalo.com 

said. “I’m sure that the Club itself as the birthplace of 
South Bend’s West Side Democratic and Civic Club is the center of Dyngus Day celebrations for the see POLITICAL/page 8 city. The holiday is celebrated on Easter Monday and incorporates both religious and political elements. see RELIGION/page 7 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Zimbra undergoes changes page 3 u Viewpoint page 10 u Fashion by Felicia page 12 u Former players participate in Pro Day page 24 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR REACTION TO THE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP LOSS? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Kristen Durbin Joseph Monardo Jillian Barwick Vicky Jacobsen Ann Marie Brendan Bell Jakubowski Scene Graphics Mary Claire Lisa Hoeynck O’Donnell Photo Viewpoint Sarah O’Connor Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 62 LOW 40 



Matt  Kristen  Nate Trembley  Margaret  Lauren Vidal  
Cunningham  Stoutenburgh  Miranda  
graduate  freshman  
sophomore  junior  student  senior  Pasquerilla West  
Keough  Pasquerilla West  off campus  Holy Cross  
“Disappointing  
“Disappointing.”  “Good effort,  “Even with this  “Good season,  but they tried.”  
third time’s the  game, the team  tough loss.”  
charm.”  had a great  
season and  
nothing takes  

away from that.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


IN BRIEF 
The Cesar Chavez Blood Drive will be held from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. today in the LaFortune Ballroom. Free t-shirts are available for do­nors. 
A Reilly Forum lecture ti­tled “Fixing the Global Com­mons: what humans can and should do to help nature live and thrive through climate change” will be held today at 3 p.m. in 210-214 McK­enna Hall. 
The Notre Dame Men’s Tennis team has a match today against DePaul at 4 

p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pa­vilion. 
The Notre Dame Women’s Tennis team has a match today against Northwestern at 4 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
A physics colloquium ti­tled “Tailoring Dirac Fermi­ons in Molecular Graphene” will be held today at 4 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
The Notre Dame women’s softball team faces North­western tonight at 5 p.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium. Stu­dent tickets cost $5. 
John Bolton, former am­bassador to the U.N., will be visiting the law school to speak on foreign policy changes to the Obama ad­ministration. The event will be held at 3:30 p.m. Thurs­day in room 1140 of the Eck Hall of Law. The event is open to the public, and a re­ception with Mr. Bolton will follow. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



OFFBEAT 
Mother driving with baby zipped in her purse 
CHARLOTTE AMALIE, 
U.S. 
Virgin Islands — 

U.S.
 Virgin Islands po­lice say a woman was al­legedly driving with her newborn baby zipped up in her purse. 


A police statement says an officer pulled over a woman driving a pickup during a routine traf­fic stop Tuesday. While asking for the St. Croix woman’s license, the of­ficer reported hearing a baby crying but did not see a baby seat in the ve­hicle. 
The motorist then al­legedly unzipped a purse sitting on the seat next to her and revealed a tiny newborn. 

Police say the woman told them that the baby girl was born at home a week ago and had no prenatal care. She was apparently driving the infant to a doctor. 
Authorities rushed the newborn to a hospital. The mother may face criminal charges. Her name and age were not disclosed. 
Men arrested after deputy finds calf in backseat 
CARLSBAD, N.M. — New Mexico authorities have arrested three men found with a 220-pound calf in the backseat of their car. 
The Carlsbad Current Argus reports that the men are accused of cattle rustling. They were jailed on charges of suspicion of larceny of livestock, con­spiracy, lack of a bill of sale and exporting live­stock. 
Luna County sher­iff’s office says a deputy pulled over their Honda Civic on Friday and saw the animal sharing the backseat with one of the alleged thieves. 
The three are being held at the Luna County Detention Center. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 










HIGH 56 LOW 33 
HIGH 58 LOW 36 

HIGH 66 LOW 48 
HIGH 61 LOW 44 





Zimbra undergoes changes 

Professor shaves head to 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Since spring break, Saint Mary’s students, faculty and staff have encountered more Zimbra outages, as the service experienced sporadic shortages and dys­function. Similar shortages and minor outages have plagued the College since February. 
A major shortage oc­curred last month when Zimbra functioned unreli­ably for several days in a row. Once the email system began functioning properly again, the Depart­ment of In­formation Technology sent emails said. 
However, unresponsive servers continue to disrupt communication between students, professors and the College. Junior Annie Root said she recognizes the problems are not easy fixes, but she is frustrated with frequent technical dif­ficulties. 
“I understand that Infor­mation Technology is work­ing as diligently as possible to fix the problems, but it’s so frustrating to have Zimbra constantly out of service,” she said. “I rely on email to work on group projects and talk with my profes­sors and for work. It’s aggravating 


to students to have Zim­
“We stay in contact with 
and faculty bra not work 
alumnae through emails. 
with ad-and slows 
Therefore, our office runs 
vice on how my produc­
to combat mainly on Zimbra.” tivity.” slow serv-Junior ers. Recom-Meghan Feasel Meghan mendations Feasel said 
junior 
incl uded emptying trash and junk fold­ers regu­larly, lim­iting the number of attachments sent in emails and sending mes­sages through Blackboard instead of Zimbra. 
Chief Information Officer [CIO] Michael Boehm said working through technical difficulties requires coop­eration from everyone. 
“We can all do our part by lightening the load on the email server, which can only help with service,” he Zimbra use is essential for every­day tasks, especially her job as an employee of 
the Alumnae Relations of­fice. 
“We stay in contact with alumnae through emails. Therefore, our office runs mainly on Zimbra,” she said. “Lately, we haven’t been able to receive any emails. It’s not just frus­trating, it’s detrimental.” 
In order to address these issues, Boehm said plans are in the works for im­proving Zimbra service in the immediate future. 



support cancer fundraiser 
“In the short term, In­
formation Technology has contracted with a Zimbra business partner for sup­port, which will include an update to the software and remote monitoring and sup­port,” he said. “This should resolve some of the issues that Zimbra continues to experience.” 
Some students have ques­tioned whether Saint Mary’s should switch to another service provider. 
“I understand it isn’t an easy fix and the process is probably complicated, but I wish we would get rid of Zimbra and switch to [Google’s email service] Gmail,” Root said. “I think it would significantly im­prove things.” 
Although no email service change has been confirmed, Boehm said a switch could occur sometime in the fu­ture. While some students may support the implemen­tation of Gmail, Information Technology is considering other options as part of its long-term goals to improve email services. 
“The College is investi­gating long-term solutions to improve email commu­nication, which includes looking at a vendor other than Zimbra,” Boehm said. “As the CIO, I will lead the evaluation of the email sys­tem and the resolution ef­forts. Gmail is certainly an option.  We are looking at a number of products and vendors.” 

Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 

people 

“Everyone who comes 
head during vo lve d, ” 
to this event, even if 
his regularly Veselik
they’re too nervous to 
scheduled cell said. biology lecture shave or to cut their Now in to motivate hair, walks away finding its fourth his students to that they’ve gained more year, the contribute to than they’ve given up.” Bald and the event. the Beau­
“My objec-tiful event 
Catherine Soler 
tive is hope-has raised 
event organizer 
fully to inspire a total my students Bald and the Beautiful $115,000 awareness by his involve­ment in cancer research, the memory of cancer victims and the future health of his children. 
“I have three kids of my own, so it makes the whole thing more real. It definite­ly motivates you more in a way,” he said. 
Veselik said he plans to shave his head in upcoming years, and is already brain­storming ways to make build on his participation this year. “I definitely want to contin­ue it, and I’m thinking of new ideas to make it bigger and better, to make more money and get more in-


By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
The Bald and the Beautiful doesn’t officially begin until April 18, but Notre Dame bi­ology professor David Veselik has already started raising 
cancer  awareness  on  cam­ 
pus.  
For  the  second  straight  

year, Veselik shaved his head Tuesday in hopes of boosting enthusiasm about the upcom­ing Bald and the Beautiful event, which supports cancer research by raising funds for the St. Baldrick’s Founda­tion and Memo­rial Hospital of South Bend. 
Veselik said he shaved his 
and others to get involved, to either par­ticipate or do­nate,” Veselik said.  “I think the students really get excit­ed and get into it.” 
As collection buckets were passed around the room, Veselik said he and three of his students shaved their heads, with one of the stu­dents even shaving his eye­brows as well. 
Veselik said he first de­cided to shave his head after a student suggested the idea last year. 
“We worked out a plan for me to shave my head in the classroom as kind of an early kick-off to the Bald and the Beautiful,” Veselik said. 
As a graduate of the Uni­versity, Veselik said his con­nection to the student body inspires him to contribute to student causes in any way possible. 
“I definitely feel a special connection to Notre Dame undergraduates,” Veselik said.  “If I can help them out in any way or in any cause, I try.” 
Veselik said he is motivated to raise cancer funding and since its 
inception 
in 2009, 
according to the event’s website. 
Senior Catherine Soler has been involved with the event since it began her freshman year. She said the Bald and the Beautiful is a great op­portunity to unite the Notre Dame community in the fight against cancer. 
“The spirit of camarade­rie during the Bald and the Beautiful is inspiring, and we hope it creates a feeling of optimism for finding a cure,” Soler said. 
For Notre Dame students considering participation in the Bald and the Beauti­ful this year, Soler said they should not let fear hold them back from participating in a uniquely-rewarding experi­ence. 
“Everyone who comes to this event, even if they’re too nervous to shave or to cut their hair, walks away find­ing that they’ve gained more than they’ve given up,” she said. 


Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 



Irish 
continued from page 1 
lively in Indianapolis, but we were actually there with the players,” she said. “With us not being there, they can’t hear the fans and they can’t see us sup­porting them. I just with I could tell them we’re behind the team.” 
Despite the Irish 
loss, Ryan “It was rough said he said she coming in [and then was disap­would losing], hoping to pointed by not have win the national the game’s m i s s e d outcome but 
title, especially 
the game still took 
after last year.” 
watch for pride in the anything. team’s ac-
Tom McGuire 
“I have complish ­so much sophomore ments this support of the team. 
“I’m a huge fan and I have been for 14 years,” she said. “I have so much respect for this team and it has been a joy to watch them this year.” 
Hall said she is proud of the team’s efforts through­out the entire season. 
“I am so grateful they are all such wonderful hu­man beings, besides such 
great ath­letes,” she said. 
Sopho­more Tim Kenney 
work to do, but I though this was a really good idea and a way to experience the game that was better than just being in my room alone and screaming like a maniac,” she said. 
Sophomore Tom McGuire said the Irish women still had a great season, even though it ended on a note of defeat. 
“It was rough coming in [and then losing], hop­ing to win the national title, especially after last year,” he said. “They were a tough team to beat, but we still had a fantastic season.” 
South Bend resident and Irish fan Cathy Hall said she heard about the Pur­cell game watch on Face­book and decided to attend to unite with the Notre Dame fan community in season. 
“We tried 
hard and 
we got into 
foul trouble 
early, and [Baylor center] Brittney Griner is a great athlete,” he said. “ But I’m still proud of our success; we have talents as a team and [Irish coach] Muffet [Mc­Graw] really knows how to coach.” 
Sophomore Brian Scully said he was also saddened by the loss, but he focused more on Notre Dame’s ex­cellent run in the NCAA tournament. 
“Really, we need to look at how we got here,” he said. “It’s still been a great trip and tonight’s event re­minded me of how much community Notre Dame re­ally has. It was great sup­port tonight.” 

Contact anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 




Innovation Park hosts event 

By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
Could you develop a proto­type for a new business in a little more than two days? 
Participants in Notre Dame’s first-ever Startup Weekend event will attempt to do just that during a 54­hour period from April 13 to the 15. 
The event, hosted by Inno­vation Park at Notre Dame and sponsored by the Kauff­man Foundation, a non­profit organization devoted to entrepreneurship, brings creative thinkers together to conceptualize and launch companies during Start­up Weekends around the world, co-organizer Melissa Parker said. 
Parker and co-organizer Brendan Daly, students in the Engineer­ing, Science and Technol­ogy Entre­preneurship Excellence 


Masters (ES-“I believe Notre Dame under-TEEM) pro-is on the cusp of a huge graduate gram, have technology revolution, students planned the with new
especially compared to 
event since creative
other universities.” 
November, opportuni­and hope ties, Parker 
John Rocha 
Notre Dame’s said. Startup Week-co-founder, myFit “For un-
Project teams will need a variety of designers, devel­opers, lawyers and business people, Parker said, but the event is open to anyone in­terested in learning more about startups. 
“We’re trying to build col­laboration. Businesses re­quire a lot of people work­ing together,” Parker said. “Technology, business, mar­keting, law and design, all of these pieces need to come together for a successful startup.” 
Parker said she recom­mends the event to any­one interested in business, namely entrepreneurship. 
“You can meet a lot of people who are entrepre­neurial-minded, and it’s a great way to get in contact with startup companies that are looking to hire people,” 
Parker 
said. 
Start­
up Week­
end also 
provid es 
end becomes an annual event. 
“We had heard about Startup Weekend and even visited a Startup Weekend event in Grand Rapids, [Mich.] We wanted to bring something here that was a hands-on entrepreneurship experi­ence,” Parker said. 
According to Parker, a startup is simply a new company different from ones already “out there,” and Startup Weekend event embraces this innovation, though it focuses on tech-nology-related ideas. 
“There’s a wide range of startups. A new restaurant is considered a startup.” Parker said. “This week­end tends to be more web-based because it’s easier to develop the prototype, but that doesn’t have to be the core business-model of the startup.” 
dergradu­ates who are worried about find­ing jobs af­ter gradu­
ating, it will look great on their resume, but it is also an alternative — starting a company instead of working for one,” she said. 
The weekend kicks off 8 
p.m. Friday, when attendees begin pitching ideas for po­tential startup businesses. Attendees then vote on their favorite proposals, and the creators of the top-10 ideas assemble their respective teams from other partici­pants and begin working on their projects. 
The prototypes are com­pleted by 12 p.m. Sunday and are presented to the judges at 1 p.m. 
Experienced faculty mem­bers and business profes­sionals will serve as men­tors during the event and assist the teams with their projects. 
Parker said roughly 60 percent of the currently reg­istered participants are un­dergraduate, MBA, Law and ESTEEM program students. Forty percent of attend­ees come from the greater South Bend community, a majority of which are web developers. 
One of the community participants, class of 2011 alumnus John Rocha, is the co-founder of myFit, a start­up company housed in Inno­vation Park. 
Rocha said Startup Week­end presents an opportunity for Notre Dame to make a name for itself in the world of technology. 
“I believe Notre Dame is on the cusp of a huge tech­nology revolution, especial­ly compared to other uni­versities,” Rocha said. 
myFit is developing soft­ware that will allow Micro­soft Kinect and Windows 8 PC users to create a virtual avatar and fitting room for online clothing shopping. 
Although the myFit soft­ware will not be included in Startup Weekend, Rocha said he plans to present oth­er ideas that will make use of the compatibility of the soon-to-be-released Win­dows 8 with the Kinect sys­tem, which currently oper­ates with Microsoft’s Xbox. 
Tim Braun, an entrepre­neur-in-residence at Elevate Ventures, Dave Brenner, president and CEO of In­novation Park, and Mike Vogel, entrepreneur-in-res­idence at the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies, will serve as judges for the event. 
Developer Town, Local-stake, Elevate Ventures and Innovation Park donated prizes for the winning team, including a dinner, design software, free consultation, a business plan review and six months of free rent at Innovation Park. 
The second-place team will receive three months of free rent at Innovation Park, and the third-place team will receive free con­sultation on pitching their idea. 

Contact Christian Myers at       cmyers8@nd.edu 





Students recall Easter traditions 
By CAILIN CROWE 
News Writer 
As Holy Week comes to a close and Easter break ap­proaches, Saint Mary’s stu­dents will celebrate the hol­iday weekend and the end of Lent with family, friends and the Easter Bunny. 
Like many Saint Mary’s students who visit family during break, junior Anna Capannari will return home to Ohio, where her family participates in a Cincinnati Easter tradition. 
“My family and I walk the steps of Immaculate Church on Good Friday for the Stations of the Cross,” Capannari said. 
Junior Caroline Gallagh­er said she is looking for­ward to returning home to Connecticut and watching her nieces and nephews participate in family tradi­tions. 
“I really enjoy watching [my nieces and nephews] run around during the Eas­ter egg hunt,” Gallagher said. “They remind me of how my cousins and I used to run like chickens with our heads cut off, search­ing for the golden egg.” 
Junior Maria Malm said she celebrates Easter Sun­day in a less traditional manner. 
“My family likes to go golfing on Easter,” Malm said. 
Junior Hannah Murdoch said she enjoys her neigh­borhood’s Easter egg hunt because someone from the neighborhood dresses up in an Easter Bunny costume each year. 
“This year, I’m going to dress up like the Eas­ter Bunny, and maybe find some real bunnies to hop around with,” she said. 
Other students are look­ing forward to the end of Lenten sacrifices. Although many students gave up cer­tain foods or activities for season, some were more successful than others in remaining committed to their goals. 
First-year student Maeve Curley said she abstained from lemonade and swear­ing during Lent. 
“I have not drank any lemonade, but I have sworn a few times,” Curley said. “Every time I swear, I put money into a swearing jar… So far the jar has $40 in it. I plan on donating that money to charity.” 
Other students struggled to go without their favorite treats and guilty pleasures for all forty days of Lent. 
“I tried to stop eat­ing junk food and visiting my favorite blog, but that only lasted a week,” junior Mariah Niedbalski said. 
Contact Cailin Crowe at ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 




Religion 
continued from page 1 
Dyngus Day on its website. However, Dyngus celebra­tions date back more than a thousand years, commemo­rating the rise of Catholi­cism in Poland. 
Traditionally, Dyngus Day celebrations involved boys dousing girls with water and rapping their legs with pussy willow branches to show their affection. Par­ticipants in Poland would attend Easter Monday Mass, then go out and feast. 
Today in South Bend, the celebration is first and foremost centered on poli­tics, not religion. However, Chrobot still plays an inte­gral role in the day’s festiv­ities, opening each year’s ceremony with a prayer. 
“I believe people should have days for celebration,” Chrobot said. “It’s certainly part of our Catholic tradi­tion, and certainly part of our Polish tradition. The Polish have a saying … ‘You should be able to dance and pray the rosary with equal zest.’” 
South Bend celebrants of­ten begin eating and drink­ing around 9 a.m., then gather to hear politi­cal speeches ish bakeries, Polish beauty shops, clothiers, all kinds of Polish shops. All of those are gone now.” 
The West Side has a his­tory of ethnic transition and tension, exemplified by the locations of the Irish St. Patrick’s parish founded in 1858 and the Polish St. Hed­wig’s church built in 1877. Chrobot is pastor of both, and said their locations across the street from each other speak to a history of both pride and resentment. 
“When [the Polish] came to this country, that lan­guage was so much a part of their identity,” Chrobot said. “Much more so than the Irish, who spoke Eng­lish … They built their own churches. There are five Polish parishes in the area. 
“There was antagonism between the [Polish and Irish]. The Irish looked down on the Poles because of the language. ‘Why don’t you speak English?’ ‘Well, because Polish is important to us.’ The separation, one priest used to refer to it as ‘the kielbasa curtain.’” 
After World War II, Chro­bot said Polish Americans returned home to find hous­ing limited. New develop­ments opened but quick­ly filled, resulting in a migration to the sub­urbs.  Afri­

at the West “ I believe people can Ameri-Side Demo-should have days cans moved cratic and for celebration. It’s in and the Civic Club at certainly part of our demograph­noon. Chro-ic of the 
Catholic tradition,
bot opens West Side 
and certainly part of
the ceremo-shifted. It is 
our Polish tradition.” 
ny with a once again Benediction-in flux as 
Fr. Leonard Chrobot 
ary prayer, the Hispanic then grabs St. Patrick’s and St. Hedwig’s community a broom Catholic churches grows in the 
dipped in holy water to sprinkle attendees. He makes a point to hit the politicians and journalists, saying he wants to get rid of any dev­ils in the room. 
“I sprinkle them with the waters that we bless on Holy Saturday to chase out any evil spirits,” Chrobot said. “When President Clinton was involved with the sex scandal, I took some holy water to there and I think it was … [then-Indiana Sen.] Evan Bayh, I think said, ‘We’ll need much more wa­ter to bless the White House than this.’” 
Chrobot also brings an Easter candle to the event and lights it, symbolical­ly illuminating a world of darkness. After he opens the ceremony, candidates running for office are in­troduced. Governors and state officials attend, but the focus usually remains on those from northern In­diana and South Bend. 
Other local celebrities are introduced and praised. Chrobot said the club espe­cially enjoys acknowledging those who make the West Side proud. 
“The West Side, it’s suf­fered a lot in the last 20 or 30 years, especially since the [1960s civil rights] riot. I mean, I grew up on the West Side, so I know it very well,” he said. “It was vir­tually all-Polish up until after the war. It was multi-ethnic, but the vast major­ity was Polish. 
“All the stores down Western Avenue were Pol-area. 
A separa­tion still ex­ists between the various ethnicities around the city of South Bend. Chrobot said the West Side Democratic Club is shoulder-to-shoul­der packed on Dyngus Day, but not usually with African Americans, who host their own event called “Solidar­ity Day.” Black clubs around the city open up and hold celebrations full of dancing. 
“I went to the Solidarity Club,” Chrobot said. “And I walked in and I said, ‘Am I welcome here?’ Because there was a guy at the door, and he said, ‘About as wel­come as I am in Mishawa­ka.’” 
Chrobot said the com­ment was in jest, but there was truth to the sentiment. A folder sits in his office, stuffed with handwrit­ten copies of Dyngus Day prayers. Usually, he said, they include words meant to relieve the ethnic tensions. 
“There have been a lot of racial issues over the years,” Chrobot said. “Many of my prayers address that issue.” 
A beacon of racial equal­ity, presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy once made a stop at South Bend’s Dyngus Day, putting it on the national map. The Eas­ter Monday celebration be­came known for its politics and the day is now com­monly associated with the Democratic Party of South Bend. 

Contact adriana Pratt at       apratt@nd.edu 

South Bend Elks Lodge and is 



Political 
a different name for the same 


Howard 
concept as Dyngus Day. continued from page 1 “It celebrates our diversity as 
continued from page 1 
a community and the fact that wasn’t the only place to have it, the black community works 
sphere this year, Ward-but if people wanted a chance very hard with the rest of the 
law said. to get out and see face-to-face community to promote good 
“This year, they had a the people that were run-government and good candi­
new hall staff and hall ning for office, then this was a dates, and it has been a very 
government, and they chance to do that. It also gave a big success since it started,” 
really tried to create a chance for people to wear but-Morgan said. 
family environment in tons and show support for the Morgan said representa-
Howard, to make it feel candidates.” tives from Hillary Clinton’s and 
open and welcome,” he Tim Hudak, president of the Barack Obama’s presidential 
said. West Side Democratic and Civic campaigns, including former 
Sophomore and How-Club, said Dyngus Day began as President Bill Clinton and his 
ard co-president Clare a Polish tradition to celebrate daughter Chelsea, came to the 
Robinson said she felt Easter Monday. Boys used to Club on Dyngus Day in 2008 
she reached her goal of hit girls’ legs with pussy willow while the candidates battled in 
“making Howard a bet-branches and splash water on Indiana’s Democratic primary. 
ter place to live.” them as ways of flirting. Several members of the Ken­
“[Howard co -presi­“It was supposed to be fun, nedy family also visited, some 
dent] Shelby Hood and too … but it wasn’t fun for the to support Clinton and others to 
I ran on the platform of girls, I guess,” Hudak said. support Obama. 
bringing a little Disney “Here in the 1930s, we were “That particular Dyngus Day 
magic to Howard,” Rob-having a little conflict with get-was a madhouse,” he said. “It 
inson said. “We started ting voters to the poll, and we gave a lot of publicity to the 
with a completely new decided there’s got to be some Club, but because of the Secret 
hall staff, so when we way how we can make this hap-Service, it narrowed down the 

started this year, we re-is great to see the rest and initiatives. pen.” traffic that was coming through 
ally did start fresh.” of campus realize what Junior and Ryan Hall Hudak said the Club’s staff in buying food. It was great to 
Mathes said Howard’s we’ve known for awhile.” president Chrissie decided to add political signifi-have them here as far as build-
collaboration with other Wardlaw said one con-Diebold said the hall com­cance to Dyngus Day by inviting ing on the reputation and the 
halls, clubs and groups tribution to Carroll’s win munity wanted to demon-politicians to the Club to meet aura of the Club, but that year 
on campus also factored was the number of stu-strate their investment in and speak to voters. we got hurt revenue-wise.” 
into their win. dents the hall retained the campus community More than eight decades Morgan said former U.S. Sen. 
“It was the overall col-from last year. by hosting some campus-later, political candidates still Robert F. Kennedy visited the 
laboration and accom-“Carroll had one of its wide events and collabo­visit the Club and other South Club on Dyngus Day in 1968 
plishment with other highest retention rates rating with other dorms. Bend establishments on Dyn-when he was seeking the Demo-
groups and clubs,” he this year,” he said. “Lots “We’ve done a great job gus Day to promote their plat-cratic presidential nomination. 
said. “Their work was of people leave due to the this year and really come forms, Morgan said. He said “That crowd was un­
consistent and exception-location, but they have together as a dorm,” she the Club sells Polish food like matched,” Morgan said. “They 
al this year.” really been able to foster said. “We hosted the Sep­kielbasa, as well as alcoholic always have a great crowd here, 
Carroll Hall was named the community.” tember 11th Room of Re-and non-alcoholic beverages to but that was just something to­
men’s Hall of the Year for Ryan Hall earned wom-membrance in [LaFortune attendees. tally different.” 
its dorm unity and spirit, en’s Hall of the Year hon-Student Center] with oth-Sophomore Kim Halstead, Robert Kennedy was assas­
junior and former Carroll ors for its commitment to er dorms the weekend of a South Bend native, said al-sinated shortly after midnight 
president Andrew Owens its goal of upholding the 9/11,” she said. “And we though she has never visited the June 5, 1968, less than two 
said. (Editor’s Note: Ow-mission of the Congrega-collaborated with Pan-Club on Dyngus Day, her Polish-months after visiting the Club 
ens is an assistant man-tion of Holy Cross, “mak-gborn to host an event American family celebrates the and less than one month after 
aging editor at The Ob-ing God loved, known and for non-juniors on Junior occasion like an extension of winning Indiana’s Democratic 
server.) served” throughout the Parents Weekend. We had Easter. primary election. 
“Carroll Hall won men’s year, Mathes said. an inflatable obstacle “My mom’s side of the family This year, Morgan said gu-
Hall of the Year with an Wardlaw said the Ryan course and mechanical is entirely Polish, so essential-bernatorial candidate John 
extreme amount of unity community also upheld bull.” ly all we do is eat more food,” Gregg, senatorial candidate 
and spirit that is unpar-the mantra “Ryan Go Halstead said. “We always Joe Donnelly and congressional 
alleled anywhere else Bragh,” or “Ryan For-Contact anna Boarini at have a Polish-food Easter, with candidate Brendan Mullen will 
on campus,” he said. “It ever,” in all its activities aboari01@saintmarys.edu mashed potatoes and sausages be among the speakers at the and cabbage and green beans April 9 event. and other things. And we get “While Dyngus Day is sev­dessert of paczkis from a Polish eral months away from the fall bakery downtown. Essentially [elections], you can start build-for us, Dyngus Day is Easter’s ing momentum on Dyngus Day second life.” for the fall,” Morgan said. “It 
Morgan said candidates post really serves multiple purposes campaign signs on the first for candidates to be here at the floor of the Club, where they West Side.” speak on Dyngus Day, as early Morgan said Indiana’s right-as the morning of Good Friday. to-work law, which Gov. Mitch On the day of the event, he said Daniels signed in February, most of the candidates and the will be an important topic at media arrive at the Club around this year’s Dyngus Day events. 11 a.m., but some arrive much The law bans unions from col-earlier. lecting mandatory fees for rep­
“One thing that’s really im-resentation. portant is around 5 in the “It’ll be like a ‘Remember morning, some candidates and the Alamo’ type thing,” Mor­some media show up to watch gan said. “That’s how passion-Tim [Hudak] and the rest of his ate the Democrats are to help staff cook the food,” Morgan enough people undo that law.” said.  Morgan said Republican po-
The political candidates litical candidates can come to speak on a small stage in front the Club on Dyngus Day if they of a mural illustrating a 19th pay the regular entrance fee. century Dyngus Day celebra-“But this is the West Side tion. The Polish word “solidar-Democratic Club,” he said. nosc,” meaning “solidarity,” “They do not get access to the is inscribed at the top of the microphone … They don’t go painting. up on stage and speak … They 
“We’re ‘solidarity’ on get out don’t put up signs.” to vote,” Hudak said. “That’s our Dyngus Day is an opportu­connection to ‘solidarnosc.’” nity to celebrate Christianity 
Morgan said political candi-and give community members dates know they will find the a chance to learn about candi­biggest Dyngus Day crowd in dates for political office, Mor-South Bend at the Club between gan said. 11 a.m. and 1:30 or 2 p.m. “The Republicans usually 
“It’s just gospel,” he said. have something at their head­“There are 20 or 30 places in St. quarters,” he said. “Republi­[Joseph] County that have really cans and Democrats alike can good Dyngus Day activities, but get out and mingle with hun­the mecca is right here.” dreds and thousands of voters 
In the early 1970s, South … And I think economically for Bend’s African-American com-a lot of places, it’s a third or half munity created Solidarity Day of their budget that they can put to interface with the Polish-together for the year.” American community, Morgan said. He said Solidarity Day Contact Marisa Iati at is celebrated primarily at the miati@nd.edu 




Romney sweeps three primaries 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE, Wis. — Mitt Romney tightened his grip on the Republican presiden­tial nomination Tuesday night, sweeping primaries in Wiscon­sin, Maryland and Washington D.C., with time left over to swap charges with President Barack Obama. 
“Four more years?” Romney asked sarcastically of the presi­dent as supporters cheered in Milwaukee. 
He said Obama was “a little out of touch” after spending four years surrounded by the trap­pings of power and had presid­ed over near-record job losses as well as increases in poverty, home foreclosures, government debt and gasoline prices. In Washington, Obama said things could be worse — and he pre­dicted they would be if Romney and the Republicans got their way. 
The victories enabled Rom­ney to pad his already-wide del­egate lead over Republican rival Rick Santorum, who flashed de­fiance in the face of pressure to abandon his own candidacy in the name of party unity. 
Wisconsin was the marquee contest of the night, the only place of the three on the bal­lot where Santorum mounted a significant effort. Romney’s victory there marked his fourth in little more than a month in a belt of industrial states that also included Michigan, Ohio, and Il­linois. 
Returns from 15 percent of the state’s precincts showed Romney with 43 percent of the vote to 38 percent for Santorum, 11 percent for Ron Paul and 6 percent for Newt Gingrich. 
Returns from 25 percent of Maryland’s precincts showed Romney with 48 percent of the vote to 30 percent for Santorum, 11 percent for Gingrich and 9 percent for Ron Paul. 
With 43 percent precincts counted in Washington, Rom­ney had 68 percent of the vote to 13 percent for Paul and 11 percent for Gingrich. Santorum was not on the ballot. 
“We won ‘em all,” Romney de­clared, a former Massachusetts governor now the nominee-in­waiting for a party eager to re­claim the White House. 
For Romney, the end of the contested primary campaign could hardly come soon enough. Obama has gained in the polls in recent months, particularly among women, as Republicans vie among themselves for sup­port from a conservative party electorate. Santorum has de­voted more time to social con­cerns — including birth control 
— than Romney, who has gener­ally stayed focused on economic issues. 
Additionally, surveys in­dicate Americans are grow­ing more optimistic about the overall state of the economy. Unemployment has fallen in re­cent months, but it is still at a relatively high 8.3 percent of the work force. 
Romney won at least 74 del­egates in the three races, with 21 yet to be allocated. 
That pushed his total to 646 of the 1,144 needed to clinch the nomination. Santorum has 272 delegates, Gingrich 135 and Paul 51. 
Interviews with voters leav­ing Republican polling places in Maryland and Wisconsin showed an electorate more con­cerned with a candidate’s abil­ity to ability to defeat Obama than with the strength of his conservatism, his moral char­acter or his stand on the issues. Similar soundings in earlier states have consistently worked to Romney’s advantage. 
Voters in both states were less apt to be born again or evan­gelical Christians than in most previous contests — 37 percent in Wisconsin and 33 percent in Maryland. Based on earlier con­tests, that, too, suggested an ad­vantage for Romney. 
Increasingly, Romney and many senior figures in his party have begun behaving as if the primaries are an afterthought, hoping to pivot to the fall cam­paign and criticism of Obama. 
“He gets full credit or blame for what’s happened in this economy and what’s happened to gasoline prices under his watch and what’s happened to our schools and what’s hap­pened to our military forces,” Romney said of the president while campaigning in Wauke­sha, Wis. 
Obama, in a speech to the an­nual meeting of The Associated Press, said a House-passed bud­get written by Republicans was “antithetical to our entire histo­ry as a land of opportunity and upward mobility for everybody who’s willing to work for it ... It is a prescription for decline.” 
When he wasn’t focusing his rhetoric on Obama, Romney prodded Santorum to quit the race, suggesting a refusal to do so could cost the party the elec­tion in November. 
“The right thing for us, I think, is to get a nominee as soon as we can and be able to focus on Barack Obama,” Romney said in an interview with Fox News. “You have to remember that it was Ross Perot that allowed Bill Clinton to win” in 1992, he add­ed, a reference to the Texan who ran as an independent that year. 



Six students, one employee killed in school shooting 

Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. — Six students and one employ­ee died when a gunman opened fire at Christian-based Oikos University in Oakland, Calif. Three other people were wounded. 
Authorities have yet to re­lease the identities of the victims, but family mem­bers have been speaking out about their loved ones, who ranged from 21 to 40 years old and came from Nigeria, Nepal and the Philippines, as well as the United States. 
Here’s a look at some of the victims whose identifies have been confirmed. 
Katleen Ping, 24, was called the rock of her fam­ily. 
The secretary/receptionist worked the front desk in the university’s administration department, where the gun­man took her hostage then killed her. 
She had been working at the school for about seven months to support her fam­ily and her 4-year-old son Kayzzer. She had moved from the Philippines to Oak­land with her family in 2007. 
Ping shared a home with her parents, brother and two younger sisters. Her husband lives in the Philip­pines and had been trying to get permission to move to the United States. 
Her father, Liberty Ping, said he does not think his daughter knew the person who shot her. 
“She’s with the Lord,” he said. “She’s in a better place right now.” 
Lydia Sim, 21, was de­scribed as a happy person who always had a smile on her face. 
She babysat children at Hayward Baptist Church while attending nursing classes at the university. Daniel Sim said his sister was drawn to the school because of its predominant Korean-American student body, as well as its faith-based teachings. 
“She felt a lot more com­fortable,” he said. “She was really outgoing and really independent.” 
He said his sister loved children, and children loved being around her. 
She was studying for her nursing degree, but her ul­timate goal was to attend medical school and become a pediatrician. She had at­tended Ohlone College in Fremont before transferring to Oikos and was nearing graduation. 
Sim lived at home in Hay­ward with her parents and brother. 
Friends said Tshering Rinzing Bhutia, 38, was a gentle Buddhist from the Indian state of Sikkim near the Himalayan Mountains. He worked nights as a jani­tor at San Francisco Inter­national Airport and lived alone in the city’s North Beach neighborhood. 
The Contra Costa Times reported he was killed when the gunman stole his car outside the university. 
Prem Singh, his landlord at a residential hotel, said Bhutia attended nursing school classes at Oikos in the morning. 
Sonam Chodon, 33, grew up in India as the child of Tibetan refugees. She worked in education admin­istration for Tibet’s exiled government before moving to the San Francisco Bay area city of El Cerrito from Dharamsala, India, a year and a half ago. 
“Her death is really shock­ing to our community,” said family spokesman Ten­zin Tsedup, president of the Tibetan Association of Northern California, where Chodon was a member. “There are many horrific things happening in Tibet and now we have to face yet another tragedy in the U.S.” 
Chodon had worked for five years in the Education of Central Tibetan Admin­istration in India, Tsedup said. 
“She was a humble and loving person,” he said. “She was a simple and very kind person.” 
Chodon was one of many new Tibetan immigrants who enrolled at Oikos to earn nursing degrees, Tsed­up said. 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Stop themadness 
It’s a new year, but the same old news. 
Yesterday, The Observer announced the statistics regarding regular decision admitted students and yet again, this year’s admitted pool is even better than the last. 
Not only did the Peter Steiner average SAT in­crease by 17 points Sports Writer and the average ACT rise from 32.7 to 33, but the University also admitted a smaller percentage of ap­plicants this year than in the past. 
First, I would like to extend my whole­hearted congratulations to those admit­ted students. Your acceptance to Notre Dame is a testament to your hard work and achievement in high school and you will undoubtedly achieve remarkable things if you decide to attend our great institution. 
In addition, Notre Dame also ben­efits from an improved class of incom­ing freshman, as they can only serve to improve our University. The fact that the University had to admit a smaller percentage of applicants also shows that more people want to come to our Univer­sity. 
But now that all the sentimentality is out of the way, I come to my real question. It’s great that the statistics of the admit­ted students improves every year, but when will the escalating statistics end? 
No one should be surprised that this year’s admitted students are statistically better than last, because it happens every year. With these rising statistics, there are also many other questions that can be raised. 
Even though a higher test score would suggest that a student is more intelli­gent, are the admitted students actually smarter than those of previous years? There are many ACT and SAT classes high school students can take to improve their test scores. But does all this prepa­ration actually reflect a more intelligent applicant? In fact, some test-prep classes guarantee they will raise the student’s score or they will give them their money back. In addition, because higher test scores reflect a student’s education, high schools and even middle schools are changing their curriculums to teach to the test. This education strategy is some­thing I don’t necessarily agree with. 
It is certainly understandable that ev­ery student will do all they can to achieve the highest test score, because applying to college is a high-stakes game. I actu­ally took the ACT three times in order to give myself the best opportunity to be admitted. 
Finally, with test scores improving ev­ery year, what does all this mean for ap­plicants years down the line? I, like many others, have a younger sibling who may wish to attend Notre Dame (I hope), but he will only be a freshman in high school next year. What will the standards be by the time he is applying for colleges? 
Thankfully, an applicant is not solely assessed by his test score. Certainly at Notre Dame, characteristics like integrity, leadership, ambition and involvement in activities and service play a large role in an application. While they may not be progressing at the rate of test scores, I am sure that these factors of applications also improve every year. 
In the end, increasing test scores and improving applications are advantageous for our University, but I wonder when or if they will ever plateau? 
Contact Peter Steiner at      psteiner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Unfairness of the best possible kind 
“See, my servant shall prosper, he shall be raised high and greatly exalted. Even as many were amazed at him — so marred was his look beyond that of man, and his appearance beyond that of 
mortals — so shall  
he startle many  Kate Barrett  
nations, because  
of him kings shall  Faithpoint  
stand speechless.”  

This verse from the prophet Isaiah (52:13-14) reflects on the “startling” and “amazing” appearance of the suffer­ing servant of the Lord, that nameless character in Isaiah who comes to fulfill­ment in the person of Jesus Christ. You can hear the full text of the reading on Good Friday and it continues on, ask­ing, “Who would believe it? Everyone avoided him! People hid their faces from him!” Then, as if the prophet is realiz­ing it himself as he speaks, he marvels, “The servant did this for us. We thought God had afflicted him, but he was crushed for our sins! He was pierced for our offenses — he gave his life for our sins. He was counted among the wicked for us; we who rejected him.” 
My children — demonstrating a universal trait of childhood — are often quite preoccupied with what’s “fair.” One of them is almost fanatical about it and really was meant to be born in the Old Testament days of “an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.” And though I sound just like my own parents (and I cringe when I say it), I do tell them, “Sometimes life isn’t fair.” While per­haps they may continue to wrestle into adulthood — as we all do — with when they can expect fair treatment and when they can’t, I believe that one of 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

the most important lessons I can teach them is that our faith, hands down, isn’t fair. Our relationship with our savior, Jesus Christ, isn’t fair. Not a bit of it. 
Years ago, you used to see billboards and other marketing outlets display­ing an advertising campaign hoping to bring people back to Mass. They asked, “Can’t you spare an hour a week after all Jesus has done for you?” My take on it was that the signs more or less meant to guilt those who saw them into getting back into church on Sundays. So the assumption was that the reader, over­whelmed with sudden appreciation for Jesus’ willingness to die for him or her, would find a place of worship to attend for an hour a week. I suppose the signs were just meant as a starting point, a way of getting folks in the door who hadn’t been regulars for a while, but I always wondered about the implied “lowest common denominator” aspect of the message. So after spending an hour a week at Mass, you’d be “square” with God? Can you imagine someone thinking, “OK, Jesus; thanks so much for your sacrifice; now I’ve done my fair share.” 
No, Christianity isn’t fair. In fact, it’s so far out of whack that on ESPN, they’d liken it to a game that had gotten “competitively out of hand.” However, we usually get all bent out of shape when we feel that someone hasn’t been fair to us, that we haven’t received “our fair share.” 
This week, Holy Week, is a perfect time to remember that our relation­ship with God isn’t even about “fair.” It’s about love — love which isn’t the least bit worried about being 50-50, but is willing to be 110-0. It’s about love so forgiving that it gets sloppy, like the father of the prodigal son who hikes up his robes and runs out down the road. It’s about love so deep that it’s willing to get tough, tough enough to demand that we love our enemies and pray for those who persecute us. It’s about love so humble that it’s willing to wash the dirty, crusty, aching feet of his com­panions, as we will hear proclaimed of Jesus in the Gospel on Holy Thursday. 
Holy Week is about gratuitous unfairness of the best possible kind. The events of Jesus’ Passion are for all parents who know their children can never “pay them back,” except possibly by someday loving their own children. Jesus’ love provides an ex­ample for friends who stand by each other through illness and insecurity and thoughtlessness and pain, without keeping track of “who’s ahead.” This week is God’s gift to each one of us who stumbles along trying and trying again to follow what seems to be God’s will for us. 
“Because of him kings shall stand speechless,” and so should we. We could not be luckier: Our God loves us so much that he gave us the never-ending gift of the life and death of his son and our savior Jesus Christ. We should forever be grateful that he’s willing to be so unfair. 
Kate Barrett is the director of the Emmaus Program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A tough lesson in life that one has to learn is that not everybody wishes you well.” 
Dan Rather 
U.S. newscaster 


WEEKLY POLL 

Is Haley Scott DeMaria a good choice to be the Commencement speaker? 
Yes — she’ll be inspiring No — she’s too low-profile 
Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Wednesday, April 4, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Yacht Dance app 
Spring is here, and love is in the air. As the flowers bloom, new romances are blossoming. But all good things must come to an end. So what is the best way to celebrate spring and go out with a bang? That’s right: the St. Ed’s Yacht Dance. It has been widely touted as the finest dorm dance of all, even attracting poor imitators like Duncan’s Highlander Highrise. Now why would I bring this up? Simply to taunt you with a dance that only St. Ed’s gentlemen and their carefully chosen dates can attend? Nay. I am writing to offer a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity: the chance to attend the St. Ed’s Yacht Dance with none other than me, Josh Underhill. 
As is the tradition with the outgoing St. Ed’s president, I am now accepting applications for you to become my date for this year’s Yacht Dance. Applications are now available online. So im­press me. Just search “The Yacht Dance 2012 with Josh Underhill 
— Apply Now” on Facebook. Also, you will not only be expected to submit a beautiful written application. This year, I will take the top five applications and bring them into the second round: the talent competition. Prepare to woo and wow me. Good luck to you all, and I look forward to taking one of you on the yacht with me. 
Josh Underhill 
junior St. Edward’s Hall April 2 
Care for an art festival? 
After much thought and discussion between myself and other students, it has become clear that the University of Notre Dame is in need of two things: one, the public promotion of creativity par­ticularly in the arts, and two, integration within the South Bend community. To this dual end, I have a proposal. At some point next year, in a collaborative effort between administration and various departments and student groups, the University of Notre Dame should host a community arts festival for the city of South Bend and Notre Dame. 
The question should naturally arise, “Of what would this com­munity arts festival consist?” I envision a weekend, or perhaps longer, when artists from Notre Dame and the City of South Bend would gather at Notre Dame to not only exhibit their art and possibly sell it, but also to actually produce art over the week­end; a series of specific events over a couple days, in a way like IRISHenanigans. Painters from the art and architecture schools could join painters from the community and together work on paintings. Sculptors, pottery-makers, basket-weavers, carpen­ters, etc. could do the same. Also, a possibility is for students from the theatre department to work on and perform plays with members of the community. Musicians and poets could have time for presenting their original work or performing the work of oth­ers. Engineering students could demonstrate machines that they designed. 
Such a community festival would accomplish the two goals that I set out at the beginning of this letter. It would be a public promotion of art (such as is present on the streets of major cities such as Rome) and because it would involve artists from the com­munity, it would do more (it would seem) to unite the two enti­ties than numerous meetings and initiatives that do not have the creation of art as their goal. Art unites because it is a powerful expression of a common humanity. 
Nate Gotcher 
junior abroad April 3 

Beautiful Easter options 
Students staying on campus over Easter break, fretting over what to do with so much time on your hands — you have options.  You can sleep in.  You can check out some of the (many) hotspots of South Bend.  But here’s something that might not be so intuitive: Why not experi­ence one of the most beautiful ecclesiastic atmospheres in the world? 
You hear enough of that “Catholic obligations” shtick.  You want an incentive?  How about, “Holy Week is a unique chance to contemplate your faith (whichever it is) and your connection to the Notre Dame family.”  It celebrates rebirth and salvation! 
And Notre Dame does a heck of a job celebrating it.  Imagine our commemoration of the foundations of Christian faith: “The mystery of Holy Thursday, the tragedy of Good Friday, the utter glory of Easter,” to quote a wise friend. 
Come hear the agony in the garden in the dramatic retelling of the Passion of Christ and understand the ultimate sacrifice he made for us.  Or immerse yourself in the silent darkness of the Basilica at Thursday night’s Tenebrae and reflect on how you can be a light for others. Or bask in that utter glory of Easter Morning, when you are part of the family of the faithful around the world that greets the new day and rejoices in our salvation.
  As a proud member of the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir, I experience that glory firsthand. I want you to feel it as well.  And let me tell you, the music of Holy Week is enough to put any man, woman or child in the pew.  The only words I could use to describe the sounds of Easter are “stunning,” “surreal” and “insane.”  Knowing the hard work we’re putting into this amaz­ing week, I’m sure that everyone else involved is doing their part too. 
I understand what many readers are thinking: It’s just not your thing or you’re not even a practicing Catholic.  Please, don’t let that stop you.  You wouldn’t believe how many non­practicing and non-Catholic friends I’ve had tell me how much they love Easter here.  This can resonate with anyone, but you have to challenge and open yourself to it.  I’m certainly no “über-Catholic” and I’m not trying to convert anyone.  I just want everyone on campus to con­sider the opportunity of an unequivocally beautiful Easter.  It doesn’t get much better than that. 
Sincerely, 
Gabriel Orlet 
sophomore Morrissey Manor April 2 

Shame on them 
As regular as daffodils in spring, a few letters from self-absorbed seniors arrive at The Observer declaring that the commencement speaker is not worthy of their dignity. It probably never occurs to the writers that the speaker might be offended by their disdain. “The gentle­man,” Cardinal Newman once wrote, “is one who does not offend consciously.” He did not discuss those who have not the wit to do so consciously. Had he so considered the matter he might well have judged them to be twits. By contrast: Kudos to the newspaper for the gener­ous remarks about a distinguished alumna who will be welcomed by the vast majority of the Notre Dame family, the pretentious few notwithstanding. 
Lawrence Cunningham 
professor Theology Dept. April 2 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 







When Anthony Thomas talks about the ori­gins of KNO Clothing, the company he helped co-found, his story starts on the streets of New York. He tells the story of a man one of his colleagues met on the street. He held an MBA degree and possessed a stellar education, but this man had few close connections. In the recent past, he had undergone an accident that left him in a coma. Despite his higher edu­cation, when he awoke, he was without a sup­port network. He was homeless. 
It is the ease with which that story could be his, yours, mine or any one of our friends or acquaintances that 
spurred Thomas, along with his partner and college buddy Stephen Caldwell, to found KNO Clothing, a non-profit fashion line. For every piece of KNO clothing you buy, a piece of cloth­ing is given to a person experiencing homeless­
ness.  Funds for shelter are also donated to the company’s partners, such as the Bethesda Mission. 
KNO unites the right to clothing and the right to shelter through their designs, and reflects this sentiment in their name. It combines the ideology that “Knowl­edge” about homelessness destroys stereotypes associated with the homeless with the belief “No One” should go without the physical protection both a home and clothing provide. Indeed, the company’s website, knoclothing.com, emphasizes 
housing is a human right under interna­tional law. 

So many of us Notre Dame fash­ionistas take for granted on a daily basis such a basic human right so many lack. Fash­ion is a nonverbal, visual language and we are its most avid speakers. It is most apt, appropriate and indeed, our fashion responsibility to use its communicative powers to combat an injustice. By sup­porting KNO, we can 
KNO Clothing founders Stephen Caldwell, left, and do so. Anthony Thomas met in college and founded KNO Clothing KNO’s fashion together to help fight homelessness. options combine re­
laxed, casual ward­
robe staples with innovative designs inspired by college fashion moments when Caldwell had an al­most-Pollack penchant for splashing paint on his own graphic t-shirts. The “Fash-ioned to Love T-shirt,” launched a year ago in honor of Valentine’s Day, emphasizes communicating love and concern for the homeless through its superimposition and submission of a heart into complicated latticework. Letters inside each compart­ment spell the company’s slogan, “Fash­ioned to End Homelessness.” The design seemingly conveys all of Thomas’ points — like each part of the lattice in the design, we all have an indi­vidual responsibility to help the home­less. However, to accomplish this, we all must work together and become whole, banding our hearts and minds together to fashion an end to the problem.  The “And We Love That T-Shirt” boldly dis­plays KNO’s last sentence of their mission statement over bright neon paint streaks, emphasizing the fact anyone can help end homelessness. The company also offers items with a more bohemian vibe, such as a violet flower-motif dress. Who­ever said being socially conscious was incompatible with chic has clearly never heard of KNO. 




I have heard people deride an interest in fashion. They call it fluff, even going so far as to call an interest in clothes a luxury. In fact, an interest in fashion and how we adorn ourselves helps us to create our own individuality, our own sense of personal pride, a knowledge of who we are. We use clothing and fashion not only to shelter ourselves from the ele­ments, but also to communicate our solidarity with a group, our common beliefs. Does it not make sense that the first step to fighting homelessness is not only to actually help give homeless people shelter, but to grant them a tool with which to recreate their own individual­ity, find common bonds with a group and rebuild their lives with visual fashion communica­tion? 

Fashion as it turns out is not fl far from it. It is a tool with which we can affect social change. Dear Fashionistas, let’s show the world how powerful we can be. 
To support the fight to end homelessness you can buy a fashion item from KNO’s website at knoclothing.com. On Saturday, Sept. 22, the company will also hold a 5K race in Chi­cago, titled “Change of Pace,” to encourage involvement in the Fashioning to End Homelessness movement. Visit their website for more details.  

Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcaponig@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, April 4, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 13 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 
Today, James Cameron exposes his latest get-rich­quick scheme to the world — “Titanic 3D.” This new re-release of his 1997 cash cow starring Billy Zane is just another in a line of crafty moves by the Holly­wood moneymaking machine to squeeze a few more dollars out of the pockets of its adoring audiences. 
The original was the highest grossing film of all time until Cameron dropped “Avatar” on our plates, and the world ate it up like three-day-old, partially-reheated Chinese food. 
So it is reasonable to expect that this re-release will vacuum the metaphorical couch seats of the movie-going population for whatever nasty, shame-filled change it can find. 
The problem with this may not be obvious on the surface. It’s Cameron’s movie, and studios need money to make more films. So what’s wrong with them whipping up a few camera angles that make the movie look a little different, charging an extra five dollars for it at theaters and then raking in the profits? 
The problem is Cameron, long considered an inno­vator and rightfully so, and others in Hollywood are quickly turning into used-car salesmen. 
“Avatar” wasn’t a very good movie. Say all you want about the revolutionary 3-D technology used to create the amazing visuals. The movie itself was painfully average. If the movie isn’t seen in 3-D, it is completely unmemorable. 

As much as it kills me to say this, “Titanic” is a great movie. It’s a moving story that uses its tragic historical value to its advantage, and is made all the more magnificent by Cameron’s incredible visual ability. 
The same can be said for many of Cameron’s early movies. “Terminator,” “Aliens,” “The Abyss” and “Terminator 2: Judgment Day” are all fantas­tic movies founded in an intriguing story and well-developed characters. The visual aspects of these films added to their value, but they did not define the movies. 
The original “Titanic” was an example of audi­ences paying for a great movie, sending a message to moviemakers people are willing to spend a great deal of money on a movie worth going to see. 
What has happened since the 3-D boom, however, is the opposite. Since “Avatar” topped the billion-dollar mark, Hollywood received the message it does not need original storytelling, or even a good movie to get people to spend money. All they need is for people to perceive the movie as technologically-ad­vanced or futuristic in its visuals. 
We see this with the re-release of “Titanic” in 3D. 
It’s the exact same movie as before. Nothing in the movie is changed. The ship still sinks at the end. 
The only difference is it will look a little different. And people will pay more for it. It’s already hap­pened with “Lion King” and “Beauty and the Beast,” and will happen again starting today. And it will continue to happen. 
Disney plans to release three more of its classics in 3-D following the success of the first two, which combined for over $200 million worldwide. 
The next two films in Cameron’s queue are “Ava­tar 2” and “Avatar 3.” 
I’d take my belated 1996 Ford Taurus (God rest its soul) rather than pay $30,000 for more or less the exact same thing in a new Ford Fusion, and I’d take the storytelling of “Titanic” or the action-packed thrills of “Terminator” over the dull mediocrity of “Avatar.” 
Don’t go see “Titanic 3D” in theaters. Send a mes­sage, and go buy the original on DVD, or rent it if there are still Blockbusters anywhere in the world 
— Redbox is also a good option if they have the film. Show Cameron and the rest of Hollywood if they want to take more leisurely dives to the bottom of the ocean (for science!), they’ll have to actually make a movie worth seeing first. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

Scene Staff Report 

Easter weekend at Notre Dame doesn’t have to be a boring four days of video games and TV show mara­thons in your room. Get out of the dorm and experi­ence what campus and the surrounding area have to offer. 
Go to a Cubs game 

This season promises to be yet another disappoint­ment for the Chicago Cubs, but that doesn’t mean the games won’t be as fun as ever. The atmosphere at Wrigley Field is one of the best in baseball, and the fans are always ready to have a good time, win or lose. This weekend is open­ing weekend for the Cubs, and they’ll host the Wash­ington Nationals on Thurs­day, Friday and Saturday afternoon. So if you get done with classes early on Thurs­day, head to the North Side, grab a spot in the left field bleachers, watch Washing­ton phenom Stephen Stras­burg make mincemeat of the Cubs’ offense and, best of all, listen to the crowd berate their own players mercilessly all game long. 
Navy Pier in Chicago 

Even if you’re not a baseball fan, there are still things for you to do in Chicago this weekend, which is supposed to be very sunny. Be sure to head down the Magnificent Mile to Navy Pier. The pier overlooks Lake Michigan and is Chicago’s number-one tourist attraction. With its sightseeing cruises, amusement park rides — yes, it has a Ferris Wheel — and deli­cious restaurants, it is not a place to miss. Relax with friends and take in the sights of Chicago. 


Easter Mass in the Basilica 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart on campus is an absolutely beautiful church, but for many Catholic students on campus who regularly attend their dorm’s Mass, it is often an underappreciated aspect of the Notre Dame experience. Easter Mass is as good a time as any to experience the Basilica — the Mass will be joyous because of the holiday, and it will be crowded 
so it won’t feel like an empty, creepy church. Also, there are no dorm Masses on Sun­day, so if you want to go to Mass on Easter and are staying on campus, your op­tions are limited. 
Easter Sunday Brunch 
Rumor has it, the best meal on campus all year round is the Easter Sunday buffet in South Dining Hall. As a good number of stu­dents go home for break, the brunch shouldn’t be too crowded, so don’t be too worried about waiting for­ever to get food. Don’t be fooled by the title, though. This is the only meal served 

in the dining hall all day, so it’s more of a “brunchin­ner” than just a brunch. So eat up. 
The South Bend Museum of Art 
Think local about high culture this week and head to the South Bend Museum of Art on St. Joseph Street. It has a permanent collection featuring historical In­diana artists and contemporary regional artists. The collection also has a few nationally recognized pieces, but mostly focuses on regional artists. Right now, the museum is featuring an exhibit titled “The Flowering Cross: Holy Week in an Andean Village.” 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Each year, when the con­fetti drops to mark the end of another college basketball season, it also means baseball is right around the corner. Along with the annual narrative of warm weather and a rapidly ap­proaching summer are several new storylines unique to the 2012 season. 
First off, an already dominant American League just became that much stronger during the off-season. The Angels and Tigers poached Albert Pujols and Prince Fielder from the Cardinals and Brewers, respectively, which, along with the retirement of St. Louis skipper Tony LaRussa, vastly decimates the National League Central. 
There are six excellent clubs in the American League. At most, five of them will earn a berth in the postseason. The Tigers are most likely to make the postseason among the six because of their talent and the fact that they reside in base­ball’s worst division. They won the AL Central by 15 games in 2011 and widened the gap during the winter by adding Fielder and journeyman re­liever Octavio Dotel to the mix. 
The Indians and Royals will be contenders in a year or two, but they’re just not ready yet. Other than adding Derek Lowe, the only excitement out of Cleveland this winter was the revelation that Fausto Carmona is not in fact Fausto Carmona, but Roberto Hernandez Here­dia, a 31-year-old, not 28 as he had claimed. 
Baseball’s most intriguing division became even more tantalizing with Boston’s dra­matic September collapse that allowed rival Tampa Bay to reach the playoffs. 
The Red Sox hired one of the best minds in the game, Bobby Valentine, to gain control of the clubhouse and erase the memories of beer and chicken. 
The Yankees were quiet for most of the off-season before swapping Jesus Montero and Michael Pineda to bolster the pitching staff. In the midst of spring training, New York welcomed Andy Pettitte of the original ‘Core Four’ back to the pinstripes. Although Pineda is injured to start the season 

PGA 

Mickelson prepares for Masters 

Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Three-time Masters winner Phil Mickelson said the course he’s loved and respected for decades is not yet its fear­some, soul-destroying self — and that has him worried. 
“It seems that some of the planning I have made may go by the wayside,” Mickel­son said Tuesday. “As soft as the golf course is, you can fire at a lot of the pins.” 
That means a host of fearless, 20-somethings will whack away in the fairways with little concern for impediments like Rae’s Creek or the tricky, closely mown slopes protecting the greens. 
“Unless something chang­es,” Mickelson predicted, “it’s going to be a ‘birdie­fest.’” 
Mickelson is making his 20th appearance at the Masters, many of those spent learning each bump and bunker through pain­staking trial and error. It took several changes in his game and attitude before he finally broke through with his 2004 victory here. 
Mickelson said one of the most drastic changes was how he approached the piv­otal, par-5 15th hole, which has made as many Masters champions as it has ruined through the years. 
Count Mickelson one of those waylaid by the daunt­ing hole with the pond in front. Mickelson had played it for years as a “must birdie” hole, fearing any­thing else would drop him behind the field. That led to what Mickelson called some disastrous scores and the realization that something had to change. 
“I think when you get hit in the head enough times, you look back and say, ‘You know, maybe I should step back,’” Mickelson said. 
These days, par is perfectly acceptable for Mickelson on the 15th. 
“That’s kind of what hap­pened to me after just getting hammered by that hole so many times in the ‘90s that when I finally won in 2004, I just accepted the fact that it’s hard hole,” he said. “If I make four, great, but five is not bad.” 
Mickelson’s Masters win in 2004 changed his attitude here forever. Gone were the questions about when he’d win a major, replaced by an unfettered excitement when­ever the tournament nears. 
“There was this burden of having never won a major. There was this burden of wanting to win the Masters so bad and being a part of the history of the tournament,” he explained. “When I won in 2004, it was no longer pres­sure. It was excitement.” 
There figures to be plenty of excitement heading into Thursday’s opening round. 
World No. 1 Luke Donald, second-ranked Rory McIl­roy, Mickelson and four-time champion Tiger Woods have won PGA Tour events in the run up to the Masters. 
The soft conditions, Mick­elson said, opens the door for players like McIlroy to make a barrage of birdies and run away and hide with this event the way he did in winning the 2011 U.S. Open. 
“He plays without fear, which is a great way to play,” Mickelson said of McIlroy. “When you get soft condi­tions like at the U.S. Open (last year), he’s going to light it up.” 
McIlroy is seeking redemp­tion from his back-nine melt­down at Augusta that cost him the tournament. Woods is also chasing a golf rebirth, hoping to add his first major title since 2008 — before a sex scandal tarnished his image. 
Mickelson carries no such baggage into the season’s first major. When he won here two years ago, the focus was as much on Mickelson’s wife, Amy, and her fight against breast cancer. She was on hand to celebrate leaving a poignant picture in the minds of all who watched the couple embrace. 
All’s well with the Mickel­son family, who’ll join Phil this weekend then leave for a vacation in the Bahamas next week. 
“It’s cool to look back now on where we’re at now and look back and think, you know, how far we’ve come,” Mickelson said. 
Mickelson hopes the prepa­ration he’s put in, plus the years of knowledge he’s ac­cumulated will pay off this week. He’s also counting on the sun to kick in as well to dry up the greens and give them their trademark light­ning speed that typically punishes aggressive play. 
“If the green speeds get a little bit quicker and get a little bit firmer, I think we’ll see some of the young players make some mistakes that will cost them the tournament,” Mickelson said. “The experi­enced players who position the ball properly and vary their risk-reward shot mak­ing, I think they will have an easier time staying on the leaderboard.” 
With new acquisitions, look out for the AL 
and Pettitte needs more training before he is game-ready, both should factor largely in a much-improved rotation. 
The Rangers are the two-time defending Ameri­can League champions and twice were a strike away from winning the organization’s first World Series in last year’s Fall Classic, only to watch the Cardinals send Pujols and LaRussa into the sunset with a championship to cap off their stints in St. Louis. 
As strong as Texas is, the Angels committed to more than $300 million with the Pujols and C.J. Wilson contracts. Pujols is an ag­ing star, but a star none­theless and will provide an excellent 3-4 punch in the middle of the lineup with Kendrys Morales, a strength the Angels have typically lacked in past years. 
The National League is the David to the American League’s Goliath, but then again, it’s the NL that has won two consecutive World Series. 
The NL East should be extremely competitive, especially now that the Nationals and Marlins (in their shiny new ballpark) can be thrown into the mix. The Phillies are with­out a doubt the team to beat, but every club but the Mets has a chance. 
Predictions: 
In the AL, the Rays, Tigers and Rangers will win their respective divi­sions, with the Yankees and Angels earning wild card spots. In the NL, the Phillies, Brewers and Gi­ants will win their divi­sions, with the Marlins and Diamondbacks getting their tickets punched with a wild card berth. 
The Rangers will ad­vance to the World Series with the most complete roster and the addition of Yu Darvish. The Gi­ants will win the NLCS to form a 2010 Fall Classic rematch, only the third time will be the charm for Texas, as they finally finish the deal and bring home a championship. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL
SALE WANTED
FOR RENT 

Rally sons of Notre Dame, Chorus: What though the odds be great Strong of heart and true to her or small UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? XXXX name.
XXXXHouse for rent. XXXX Sing her glory, and sound her fame Cheer, cheer for Old Notre Dame Don’t go it alone. GREAT LOCATION Notre Dame has many resources Raise her Gold and Blue, Wake up the echoes cheering her Old Notre Dame will win over all, in place to assist you. If you We will ne’er forget her name, close to campus. or someone you love needs And cheer with voices true, confidential support or assistance, Send the volley cheer on high, Whileher loyal sons are marching 3BR $600 per bedroom. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Rah! Rah! For Notre Dame. And we’ll cheer her ever 
1-7819. For more information, 

Utilities included. Call 574-272-visit NDs website at: http:// Shake down the thunder from the 2940 pregnancysupport@nd.edu We will fight in every game Loyal to Notre Dame. sky, Onward to Victory. 
MLB 
Fielder gets rare steal in loss 
Associated Press 
DUNEDIN, Fla. — Prince Fielder took a big lead off first base and Toronto pitcher Hen­derson Alvarez never gave him a glance. So the hefty slugger took off and slid in with his first spring training swipe since 2008. 
“I think any time I steal any­thing, everybody’s off-guard. That’s the point,” Fielder said following the Blue Jays’ 13-8 win Tuesday over the Detroit Tigers. 
In a game that had five home runs among its 28 hits, Field­er’s theft was a highlight. 
Fielder followed Miguel Ca­brera’s single up the middle in the third inning with a forceout. After Delmon Young popped up, Fielder ran on Al­varez’s first pitch to Alex Avila and beat J.C. Arencibia’s throw and shortstop Yunel Escobar’s tag. 275-pound Fielder thundered 
“I just wanted to try it. There around third — the coach just was no deep thinking involved,” watching him race by — and Fielder said, adding that he headed home. Left fielder Eric should have one steal every Thames threw Fielder out by spring. “Just to keep in shape.” two steps to end the inning. 
Deadpanned Tigers manager “I thought I had it,” Fielder Jim Leyland: “I wouldn’t make said, smiling. He received fist a big deal out of it.” bumps from teammates. 
“I don’t think you’ll see it Arencibia playfully patted very much,” he said. “You can Fielder on the helmet. tell Rickey Henderson not to Tigers starter Max Scherzer worry about it.” had a rough day, charged with 
Fielder has 16 stolen bases nine runs on 11 hits and three in seven major league seasons, walks in 4 1-3 innings. He was putting him 1,390 behind Hall chased during the Blue Jays’ of Famer Henderson’s record. seven-run fifth inning. 
Fielder’s next gamble on the “He was out of synch all day bases also brought a roar from long, just not in a good rhythm the crowd, but it wasn’t nearly all day,” Leyland said. “It hap-as successful. pens once in a while.” 
With two outs and Fielder Thames and two minor still at second, Jhonny Peralta leaguers hit home runs for lined a single to left field. The the Blue Jays. Miguel Cabrera connected off Alvarez and Danny Worth hit one off Kyle Drabek, who gave up single runs in the sixth, seventh and eighth innings and two in the ninth. 


The Blue Jays took a 4-3 lead in the second with Col­by Rasmus and Brett Lawrie hitting ground-rule doubles and made it 5-3 in the third on Thames’ homer. 
In his first at-bat of the spring, Ryan Schimpf hit a 2-0 pitch over the center-field fence for a grand slam. Five pitches later, fellow Class A player Kevin Ahrens homered to left. 
Toronto loaded the bases in the fifth on singles by Adam Lind, Thames and Jeff Mathis and when Scherzer walked Rasmus for a run. 
PGA 

McIlroy aims to make up for last year’s Masters 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga.  — In the after­math of his Masters meltdown, one phone call that meant the most to Rory McIlroy was from Greg Norman, the master of the Sunday collapse at Augusta Na­tional. 
Norman had four good chanc­es to slip on a green jacket, the most unforgettable in 1996 when he blew a six-shot lead to Nick Faldo. So the Shark could speak from experience, and the kid was more than willing to listen. 
“I think it was great coming from him because he had sort of been in the same position in 1996 — well, ‘96 where Faldo won, but I think ‘86 as well, 1987,” McIlroy said, pausing to try to get the years right. “Sor­ry, I wasn’t born.” 
It’s that kind of humor that has helped McIlroy move on — that and the U.S. Open title he won a few months later. 
Still fresh this week for the 22-year-old from Northern Ire­land is how he lost a four-shot lead in the final round. There was the tee shot on the 10th hole that bounced around the trees and landed behind the cabins left of the fairway — way left. 
There was a three-putt on the 11th, a four-putt on the 12th and eventually an 80 on his scorecard. 
“Obviously, the first time I played the back nine last week, there’s memories that come back and memories that you probably don’t want,” McIlroy said. “It’s fine. I got that all out of the way, and just looking for­ward to this week and looking forward to try to put myself in contention to try and win this thing.” 
Norman’s first big opportuni­ty was in 1986, the year he had the 54-hole lead at all four ma­jors. He sent a 4-iron over the 18th green in the final round, and his bogey made Jack Nick­laus a Masters champion for the sixth time. Norman won the British Open that summer, spent the better part of the next decade at No. 1 in the world and became a perennial favorite at the majors. 
That’s where McIlroy is now. 
He won with a record score at Congressional for his first ma­jor. He rose to No. 1 in the world last month, though only for two weeks, when he won the Honda Classic. And, like Norman, he still doesn’t have a green jacket. 
But he’s young. He’s super tal­ented. And he copes with suc­cess and failure with a refresh­ing dose of self-deprecating humor and raw honesty. He is comfortable with his game and who he is, and he’s not interest­ed in comparisons with anyone but himself. 
Even Tiger Woods. 
“It’s nice to be getting all this praise and everything, but you have to take it with a pinch of salt,” McIlroy said. “I definitely don’t have the achievements that Tiger has or nowhere near the level of success that he’s had over the last 15 years. But hopefully, I can one day even get close to that point.” 
Woods had never played with McIlroy until a practice round at Abu Dhabi to start the sea­son, followed by the first two rounds. He knew enough about Boy Wonder, however, and while Woods wasn’t at Congressional last summer, he was impressed by how someone so young could recover so quickly from a major disappointment. 
“He has all of makings of be­ing a great champion for a long period of time,” Woods said. “We’ve seen what he did last year at the Masters and how he came back at the Open. He led what, seven out of eight rounds in major championships? Which is pretty impressive. So he just needs to get more experienced. That’s just from playing. He’s put himself there. Seems like every single tournament he plays in, he’s in the top 10. And that’s great to see.” 
In his last 12 official events, McIlroy has won twice and has finished in the top 3 eight times. Only once has he been out of the top 10. Woods’ recent record isn’t quite that good, although he has given himself more chances at winning than the last two years. Woods comes into the Masters after his first PGA Tour win 30 months, a five-shot win at Bay Hill. 
That doesn’t hurt. 
“I think it’s huge for him,” Phil Mickelson said of Woods. “And I think he’s going to have a great week, because he’s obvi­ously been playing well, and to have won heading in gives him a lot of confidence. Sucks for us, but ....” 
The bookies made Woods the favorite after his win at Bay Hill — an amazing turnaround considering only a month ago he left Doral in the middle of the last round because of soreness and swelling in his left Achilles tendon. 
But they have never strayed too far from McIlroy. Never mind his age, or that this is only his fourth Masters. What he showed through 54 holes last year, and how he bounced back, is enough for everyone to take notice. 
And so much for those de­mons on the 10th hole at Au­gusta; McIlroy conquered them with more humor. 
“I mean, I can’t believe how close the cabins are. They are only 50 yards off the tee,” McIl­roy said as the room filled with laughter. “But no, look, it’s great to be able to laugh about it now.” 
It wasn’t always that easy. 
He cried on the phone with his mother after the Masters. There were days of reflection, when McIlroy realized he must not have been ready to win a major. He noticed when he watched videotape of the final round that the bounce in his step was miss­ing. He was looking down, not up. Joy gave way to stress. 
Seven putts on the 11th and 12th holes are what did him in. Still, most remember the 10th, and for good reason. Some play­ers barely notice those cabins left of the 10th fairway. Not many can imagine a player be­hind stuck behind them. 
“I played here last week, and I did ask my caddie where ex­actly Rory was,” Luke Donald said. “And he goes, ‘You know, there wasn’t a single person that doesn’t go by here that asks where Rory’s ball was.’ You’ve obviously got to be a bit unlucky to take such a bounce.” 
Not even McIlroy is sure what happened on that shot, much less the rest of the day. 

NHL 
New York tops Flyers, claims top seed in East 

Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Ryan Cal­lahan and Artem Anisimov scored as part of a four-goal first period, and the New York Rangers clinched the top seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs for the first time since 1994 with a 5-3 win over the Philadelphia Flyers on Tuesday night. 
The Rangers are tops in the East for the first time since Mark Messier led them to their last Stanley Cup championship 18 years ago. The Rangers, who lead the overall NHL standings with 109 points, are assured of home-ice advantage until at least the Stanley Cup finals. 
The Rangers are atop the East thanks to a stunning se­ries sweep of the Atlantic Di­vision-rival Flyers. They went 6-0 against Philadelphia for the first time in 40 years. 
Ryan McDonagh and Brian Boyle also scored to help the Rangers storm to a 4-0 lead. Marian Gaborik added his 41st goal, and Henrik Lundqvist earned his career-best 39th victory. 
The Rangers have ridden the All-Star Lundqvist all the way to the top, and he was sensa­tional again in the clincher. It was Rangers defenseman Marc Staal who knocked the puck past him for the first Philadel­phia goal. Staal kicked the puck with his left skate under Lun­dqvist’s right leg in the second to make it 4-1. Jakub Voracek got credit for the goal. 
Lundqvist solidified his Vezi­na Trophy credentials with 37 saves in his milestone victory. 
First place is rare air for a team that has won only two postseason series since 1998. Owner James Dolan made an atypical visit to the postgame news conference in January and proclaimed the Rangers Stanley Cup contenders. 
“I think we’re pretty close to getting that back,” Dolan said of the Stanley Cup. 
Ilya Bryzgalov was a spar­kling 10-2-1 in March and cho­sen as the NHL’s first star, but he sat out the previous three games because of a chip frac­ture in his right foot. In his re­turn, he had Flyers fans wish­ing he missed one more. 
McDonagh took Gaborik’s feed from behind the net and scored his seventh goal of the season 6:25 in. Boyle followed with his 10th, and Anisimov and Callahan both scored on the power play for a 4-0 lead that quieted an oddly sparse crowd for Philadelphia. 
Unable to solve Lundqvist, the Flyers took out their frus­trations with their fists. Zac Rinaldo slugged it out with New York’s Brandon Prust in a lengthy bout the refs were in no rush to stop. Philadelphia’s Jody Shelley used a series of rights to the face to pummel Mike Rupp. 
The teams kept up the trash-talking, pushing and poking for the rest of the game. 
All the scrapping helped both teams score power-play goals in the final 90 seconds of the second. Gaborik a shot from the slot past two defenders for a 5-1 lead. Wayne Simmonds, wear­ing a visor after he was hit in the face by a puck last week, followed for the Flyers with his 28th goal. 
Scott Hartnell added a goal in the third, but it was too late for Philadelphia. 
The Rangers won the first five meetings with Philadelphia by Feb. 11, including a 2-1 victory in the Winter Classic at Citizens Bank Park. 
Dating to last season, the Rangers have seven straight wins against the Flyers for the first time since Philadelphia went 13 games without a win from November 1971 to Decem­ber 1973. 
The Flyers have been fired up lately. Coach Peter Lavio­lette was fined $10,000 on Mon­day after calling out Penguins counterpart Dan Bylsma for sending out his checking line late in Philadelphia’s 6-3 win at Pittsburgh on Sunday. 
NBA 

San Antonio crushes Cavaliers 
Associated Press 

CLEVELAND — Danny Green scored 19 points against a Cleveland team that released him last season, Tony Parker added 19 and the San Antonio Spurs coasted to their eighth straight win, 125-90 over the Cavaliers on Tuesday night. 
Green played his rookie season for Cleveland, which cut him at the end of training camp in 2011. He’s found a new home with the Spurs, who built a 22-point lead in the first half and rested Parker, Tim Duncan and Manu Ginobili for most of the fourth quarter while push­ing their lead to 37. 
Rookie Kyrie Irving scored 13 points for the Cavs in his return after missing one game with a sprained right shoulder. 
Cleveland has lost eight in a row, 11 of 12 and been out­scored by 72 points in its past two home games. Antawn Jamison led the Cavs with 15 points. 
The Spurs began a 16-games­in-23-days stretch to finish the lockout-shortened regular season, a grueling finish be­fore the playoffs for any team, and especially for one with so many veterans. 
San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich wants to rest his reg­ulars as much as possible and a date with the Cavs provided the perfect opportunity to sit his starters. 
“It’s a little bit more diffi­cult than the normal season,” Popovich said before the game of managing minutes. “We’ve always played our guys less than most teams, so it’s a little bit more emphasis than usual.” 
Duncan and Parker played only 23 minutes and Manu Ginobili 18, giving the Spurs’ “Big Three” a chance to get ready for Wednesday’s game in Boston. 
Reserve guard Patty Mills scored a season-high 20 for San Antonio, which has won 11 of 12 and taken a comfortable hold on the No. 2 spot in the Western Conference behind Oklahoma City. 
Green spent much of the pre­game visiting with former Cavs teammates, coach Byron Scott and arena employees, offering a handshake and hug to people he used to see on an almost daily basis. 
In the first half, he seemed intent on showing Cleveland what they gave up. 
Green, who scored just 40 points in 20 games in his season with the Cavs, made four 3-pointers and scored 16 points to help the Spurs open a 60-41 lead at the break. The 6-foot-6 swingman has gone from being a Cleveland cast­off to a starter with the Spurs, who have again gone under the radar but are playing as well as any team in the league. 
Cleveland, on the other hand, has lost 17 of its past 21 and the Cavs are staggering to­ward the finish after showing some early promise. 
After a 3-pointer by Jamison tied it 16-all in the first quar­ter, the Spurs went to work. 
San Antonio reeled off 16 straight points in less than three minutes and Parker picked up a second personal foul on Irving, who went to the bench with 3:32 left. 

When the Cavs scored four quick points to open the sec­ond quarter, Popovich called a timeout and spent the break ripping into his players, par­ticularly Mills, who gave up an easy layup. 
The Spurs responded to the tongue lashing as Green hit a pair of 3-pointers to help open a 53-31 lead. 
Parker scored six straight points during a 12-2 run by the Spurs in the third. James Anderson, who didn’t play at all in the first half, closed the quarter with a 3-pointer from the right corner to put San An­tonio ahead 90-63. 
The final 12 minutes resem­bled a pickup game at the local YMCA as both coaches played their reserves. 
NFL 

Nike introduces new NFL uniforms 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — For fans wor­ried that Nike was going to give their favorite NFL team’s uniform an extreme makeover, full-blown Oregon style, no need to fret. 
Ben Roethlisberger still looked very much like a mem­ber of the Pittsburgh Steelers. Nobody would have mistaken Jermichael Finley for anything but a Green Bay Packer. And the Browns’ jersey wore by Joe Haden was still brown. 
Going for a slightly sleeker but very familiar look, the NFL unveiled its new uniforms Tuesday. Nike, the league’s latest apparel maker, stayed away from the wildly experi­mental designs it uses with the University of Oregon, get-ups that sometimes make it hard to identify the Ducks. 
“You look good, you play good,” said Finley, Green Bay’s star tight end. “Hopefully that kicks into effect this season.” 
Nike put on a gridiron-themed fashion show at a Brooklyn film studio, with a player from each of the 32 franchises modeling his team’s new threads. 
No, Big Ben, Ndamukong Suh and Brian Urlacher didn’t walk the runway. 
Instead, after a handful of Nike big wigs worked their way through half-hour pre­sentation that could have been dubbed “The Making of the Uniforms,” the players walked out onto an artificial turf-cov­ered mini-field, suited up from shoes to shoulder pads and lined up in four rows. After the house lights went up, their hel­mets went on. 
There were no surprises. 
Commissioner Roger Goodell said the goal of the redesign was to combine “tradition with innovation.” 
“Some teams will lean more toward the traditions,” Goodell said. “But you can see here you can put innovation into the uniform without changing the look, necessarily, about it.” 
In college football, flashy uniforms, with non-traditional colors and patterns are all the rage these days. Oregon, the alma mater of Nike founder Phil Knight, has made the cut-ting-edge — some would say over-the-edge — look its call­ing card. Nike outfits dozens of major college football teams and while few have gone all-in the way Oregon does, many are at least dabbling in funky gear. 

NBA 

James leads Heat in playoff-clinching win over 76ers 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — LeBron James scored a season-high 41 points, Mario Chalmers add­ed 19 and the Miami Heat clinched a playoff spot with a 99-93 win over the Philadel­phia 76ers on Tuesday night. 
James scored 14 straight Miami points in the fourth quarter, helping the Heat finish off a four-game sea­son sweep of Philadelphia and extend their home-court winning streak to 16 games. Chris Bosh scored 17 points and Udonis Haslem grabbed 11 rebounds for Miami, which won despite Dwyane Wade sitting out with a bruised left knee. 
Evan Turner scored 26 points for Philadelphia, which fell 1½ games behind Boston in the Atlantic Division. Lou Williams scored 18, Spencer Hawes added 12 and Andre Iguodala had 11 before leav­ing in the third quarter with a left eye contusion. 
Miami improved to 9-1 when Wade doesn’t play this season. He bruised his left knee in Sunday’s loss at Boston, though the Heat are hopeful he will be ready for Wednesday’s showdown with Oklahoma City — which will come on a huge night in South Florida, with the Miami Mar­lins opening their new $515 million ballpark a few miles away against the reigning World Series champion St. Louis Cardinals. 
Shane Battier started in Wade’s place, and the Heat made another change to the starting lineup, with Ronny Turiaf getting the start at center over Joel Anthony. 
Before the game, Sixers coach Doug Collins lamented how his team had the misfor­tune of playing Miami twice already this season in games immediately following Heat losses. And in both of those games, Miami made state­ments — winning 99-79 on Feb. 3, then running out to a ridiculous 57-30 halftime lead on March 16 before es­caping with an 84-78 victory. 
And with the combination of the loss in Boston on Sun­day, and the looming Wednes­day game with Oklahoma City, Collins figured the Heat would try to put the 76ers away early. 
Of course, when he said that, he also thought Wade would be playing. 
So even with James shoot­ing 9 for 12 — his best first-half shooting effort in nearly a month — and Chalmers re­cording just his second dou­ble-digit-scoring first half in Miami’s last 19 games, the Heat trailed 54-51 at the break. Philadelphia shot 53 percent in the opening two quarters, held an 11-6 edge in fast-break points and got 15 points before intermission from Turner. 
Philadelphia managed only two field goals in the first six minutes of the third quarter, the second of them a base­line drive and dunk by Iguo­dala, but largely survived the drought. Iguodala’s dunk cut Miami’s lead to 66-61, but his night quickly took a bad turn. 
With 4:42 left in the third, Iguodala was holding the ball as Chalmers tried swip­ing it away — but only wound up connecting with the face of the 76ers’ guard. Iguoda­la went to the floor in pain, holding the area around his left eye, then eventually made his way to the Philadelphia bench with part of his face covered by a towel . After a few moments there, he went to the 76ers’ locker room for further evaluation. 
At that point, Miami led 68­
64. Soon, the Heat had what was then their biggest lead. James had six points in a quick 8-2 spurt that pushed Miami’s edge to 76-66 with 
2:23 left in the third. 
Midway through the fourth, the 76ers said Iguodala had a left eye contusion and his re­turn was questionable. 
Even without him on the floor, so was the outcome. 
Williams’ jumper with 2:27 left got Philadelphia within three, the closest margin since early in the third quar­ter. 
But James made a pair of jumpers, and after Battier sprawled out for the ball and extended a Miami possession, Chalmers found James for an alley-oop dunk that put the Heat up 92-85 with 1:27 left. 


NHL 

Devils improve seeding prospects with third straight win 
Associated Press “We’ve been trying to find him 
and maybe trying to find him 
NEWARK, N.J. — With the too much. Tonight was good. It playoffs on tap next week, Tra-has to feel good for him to get vis Zajac is rounding into form that one before the postseason at the right time for the New starts. Jersey Devils. Coupled with Carolina’s 2-1 
Zajac broke a tie early in the win over seventh-place Ottawa, second period with a power-New Jersey likely will be the play goal and the Devils nailed No. 6 seed when the postseason down at least the No. 6 seed in starts next week. It has an out-the Eastern Conference with a side shot at the No. 5 spot but it 3-1 victory over the New York would have to win its final two Islanders on Tuesday night. games and have Philadelphia 

“I am getting there,” said Za-lose both of its games in regula­jac, who has been limited to 13 tion. games this season because of an “We want to take care of busi-Achilles’ tendon injury suffered ness, put as many points on the during an off-ice workout in Au-board as we can, and see where gust. “I mean I feel better every the cards come out for the play-game. I feel more confident with offs,” Devils coach Peter DeBoer the puck and making plays ev-said. ery game. I am starting to hold Patrik Elias added a goal and on to it more and not throwing it an assist, and Kovalchuk scored a price for the Devils, who lost Zajac broke a 1-all tie 22 sec-in 13 games this season because away as I was a couple of games into an empty net in the final second-year center Jacob Josef-onds into the second period of the Achilles injury he suf­before. It’s just nice to contrib-minute to help the Devils win son for four to six weeks with a with a power-play goal from the fered training in the offseason. ute and help out.” their third straight. Johan Hed-broken left wrist in a second-hashmark between the circles. The first two goals came in 
Zajac has played well the past berg had 19 saves. period collision with Jay Pan-Parise, who also assisted on the opening 3:57 on rebounds. week. He had a game-deciding Matt Moulson scored for the dolfo. It’s Josfson’s second major Kovalchuk’s goal, carried the Elias gave New Jersey the goal in a shootout win over Chi-Islanders, who have lost three injury this season. He broke a puck in from the point and sent lead at 1:18 with his 26th of the cago last week and he is center-straight. clavicle early in the season. it to Elias along the side boards. season. Montoya stopped a shot ing the top line with Zach Parise Islanders goaltender Al Mon-“Everybody in the room really Parise took a return pass along from the point by Mark Fayne, and Ilya Kovalchuk as his wings. toya said the Devils played their feels for Jake,” Hedberg said. the goal line and found Zajac but Petr Sykora got the rebound 
Parise, who missed most of game to perfection. All he wants “He’s been through so much alone for a shot that whizzed and found Elias alone 10 feet in last season with a knee injury, for the team’s last two games is these two years with injuries past a defenseless Montoya. front of the goalie for a shot into said the game-winner had to be complete games. and every time he is getting his “Zach made a good pass and an open net. big for Zajac, who had a goal in “We’ve done it through groove and things are going there didn’t seem like there was Moulson tied it with his ca-eight games after making his stretches of the year,” Montoya well for him, and it looks like he too much around me,” Zajac reer-best 35th goal. John Tava­season debut in mid December said. “We know what type of is really to take the next step, said after scoring his first goal res outfought Fayne for the puck before being shut down again team we can be when we are some unfortunate injury hap-since returning to the lineup behind the Devils net and sent it because he came back too soon. consistent and give that effort pens.” for the second time this season to defenseman Mark Streit at the 
“When you are out that long, that everyone expects out of us Hedberg, who started for the from an Achilles tendon injury. left point. His shot was stopped you want to come back and and we expect out of ourselves. second time in 12 games, made “He put it right in the wheel-in front but Moulson, who has make an impact right away,” That’s what we hope for and his best save late in the second house and I was able to get a scored at least 30 goals in each said Parise, who had two as-that’s what we will bring to our period when he stopped a short-good shot away.” of his three seasons with the sists in the game including the fans on Thursday night.” handed chance in close by Mi-It was the second goal of the Islanders, backhanded the re-primary pass on Zajac’s goal. The win didn’t come without chael Grabner. season for Zajac, who has played bound under Hedberg’s pads. 

TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish set to compete in meet at Stanford 

By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will head west this weekend to participate in the Stanford Invitational, a meet known for its highly com­petitive distance races. 
The Irish will bring vari­ous event groups to the meet in Palo Alto, Calif., for a total of 41 athletes. Senior multi­eventer Maddie Buttinger said she is anticipating a strong meet for the Irish. 
“This meet used to just be distance runners, but this year we’re taking some other events groups,” she said. “It’s a small group for us [traveling]. We’re basically only taking people who scored at the Big East In­door [championships] and who have done pretty well so far. It’s an invite, so you have to quali­fy, and the meet only accepted a certain amount of people.” 
Buttinger said this meet should be a good test for each event group, in particular for the distance athletes. 
“It should be really competi­tive. Every year, really good times are run at this meet. It was a hard meet to get into,” she said. “It should be nice be­cause we’ll be going up against good people in good weather, and overall the competition will be good. 
“For most distance runners this is the first meet of the year, for example, the [10,000-me­ter] runners, the steeplechas­ers and the distance medley relays will all be competing for the first time.” 
The group of athletes making their outdoor season debut in­cludes junior middle-distance runner Jeremy Rae, who was part of the Indoor National Championship distance-med­ley relay team. Rae is looking to carry the momentum to his first meet of the outdoor sea­son, Buttinger said. 
“This meet is especially known for distance, so it’s real­ly competitive for our distance runners,” Buttigner said. “It’s a really good chance for them to open against some good com­petition in good weather, and to get a good start early and see what they can do well.” 
The Irish have performed strong in outdoor showings thus far, and are looking to continue that success all-around, Buttinger said. 
“Everyone opened pretty well at [the Victor Lopez Invitation­al in] Houston and [the Pur­due-Poehlein Invitational] was pretty good, so I think people are looking to build off of what they’ve done,” she said. “We’re all trying to score higher and better our marks for [the Big East Outdoor championships] and to qualify for regionals.” 
The Irish will open their first day of competition at the Stan­ford Invitational on Friday. 
Contact laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Invitational brings tough competition 
By BRENDAN BELL “We are competing against Sports Writer one top-10 team and two other teams currently ranked ahead Saint Mary’s will head of us. It will be a challenge play-south this weekend, where ing the Texas teams in their the Belles will compete in own environment, but I expect the Southwestern Invitation-our players to rise to the occa­al, trying to build off their sion and be very competitive,” opening performance at the Belles coach Mark Hamilton Phoenix In-said. “We won vitational. the tourna-
T h e ment in 2011, Belles will and I fully ex-look to ex-pect us to do pand on the same this their depth “We won the tournament year.” and push in 2011 and I fully Saint more golf-expect us to do the Mary’s will 
ers to shoot look to use 
same this year.” 
in the low its familiar­80’s in the ity with the 
Mark Hamilton 
upcom-course to gain ing com-Belles coach an advantage petition . over its oppo-St. Mary’s nents. will travel “It is a tight to Ber-golf course ry Creek with hard Country fairways and Club in Georgetown, Tex., is similar in design to other to face a variety of highly courses we play,” Hamilton competitive opponents, in-said. “It takes precision off the cluding No. 13 University tee. Keep it in play, and you can of Mary Hardin-Baylor and make pars.” Trinity University. With nearly a month off since their last competition, the Belles have taken the time to develop and fine-tune their play in preparation for the up­coming tournament. 
“We have been able to get in quality range and course time to make the necessary adjust­ments,” Hamilton said. 
Saint Mary’s started the sea­son with a tough outing at the Phoenix Invitational in Arizo­na, in which the team finished behind George Fox University and the University of Wash­ington St. Louis.  However, the Belles took many positives from their spring break trip to Arizona, as senior captain Natalie Matuszak lead the way for the Belles and shot a team-low score of 79.  Additionally, freshman Janice Heffernan and sophomore Paige Pollak both shot scores of 82 to give Matuszak support at the top of the leaderboard. 
Saint Mary’s will compete at the Southwestern Invitational in an effort to defend its title, teeing off April 9 and continu­ing play through the 10th. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles host Calvin for doubleheader 
leadership Thursday,” Sulli­van said. “They are good play­ers and they know how to win. They just need to have confi­dence, play with swagger, and go into the games with a posi­tive mentality.” 
Sullivan said the team can look to senior outfielder Kristen 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Looking to bounce back from a pair of losses to No. 24 Carthage, Saint Mary’s returns to conference play Thursday when it hosts Cal­vin for a doubleheader. 
we lost. The team should be prepared for Calvin.” 
With the conference schedule about to enter into full swing, Saint Mary’s will need to be focused Thursday and weeks to come, Sullivan said. With only four teams qualifying for the MIAA tournament, Saint 

Saint Mary’s (13-7, 0-2 Mary’s cannot MIAA) will look to get back afford to drop on track on offense, where many confer-the team has struggled lately. ence games 
“We need to bounce back if they want from the last few games and to compete in improve our hitting,” Belles the playoffs. coach Erin Sullivan said. “ Eve r y “We haven’t been string-game is re­ing hits together well lately. ally impor­We’re swinging at a lot of tant if we bad pitches. This needs to want to fin-improve if we’re going to win ish in the top conference games.” four,” Sulli-
Though the Belles dropped van said. “We their last two games, Sul-need to beat livan said she believes the the teams we team is still mentally tough. should beat, She expects the team to be and with all 
“Every game is really important if we want to finish in the top four ... We need to beat the teams we should beat, and with all respect to Calvin, these games are ones we should win.” 
Erin Sullivan Belles coach 
out of her book.” Saint Mary’s Nelson to pro­vide this kind of mentality. 
“Nelson has been playing outstanding as of late,” Sullivan said. “She’s been a real offensive spark for our team. She’s playing free of any pressure, just playing to have fun. The rest of the team should take a page 
continues its ready for Calvin on Thurs­day. 
“I don’t think the two losses [against Carthage] ru­ined our mentality,” Sullivan said. “Carthage was a great team and it was good to play against them, even though respect to Calvin, these games are ones we should win.” 
In order to capture two wins, Sullivan believes her seniors will have to provide leadership Thursday and through the rest of the season. 
“We need to have some senior conference campaign when it takes on Calvin at home Thurs­day at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish hope for good weather 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Everyone enjoys sunshine, but the Irish have reason for hoping the weather holds for today’s home match against No. 14 Northwestern – namely, the Wildcats’ dominance on indoor courts. 
“They’ve been very good his­torically, especially indoors,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “They’ve won the national indoor [championship] once or twice. They’re deep, and they’re good at the top of their lineup usually, so they’re always a good team. The last five years they’ve been ranked as high as No. 1 in the country.” 
Louderback said Northwest­ern (10-7, 4-1 Big 10) has a spe­cial advantage on indoor courts because of the geography of their Evanston, Ill., campus. 
“They’re right on the lake, so even when the weather’s nice in a lot of areas, like in downtown Chicago or even here, it seems colder there,” Louderback said. “Even though we’re not that far away, we still are able to get outdoors a lot more than they are. They just don’t get out a whole lot, so they practice in­doors.” 
The Wildcat style of play fits well with the indoor game, Louderback said. 
“They usually have kids that like to hit the ball pretty big, which is good indoors,” Loud­erback said. “They have to play a lot of indoor tennis — that’s pretty much all they do — and the game they play is suited to indoor.” 
The No. 18 Irish (14-5, 3-0 Big East) and the Wildcats have de­veloped something of a rivalry over the past few years. 
“In the last ten years we’ve both been in the top-10 in the country a lot, and so we’ve been in some big matches with them,” Louderback said. “It’s always been a good rivalry — they have good kids that play fair and play hard. But we’ve both been ranked high and we’ve both played each oth­er when the other team was ranked higher and knocked them off, and it’s been some good matches with them.” 
Louderback said the rivalry has been heightened because the teams often meet in the NCAA tournament. 
“If one of us isn’t a host site for the NCAAs — if one of us isn’t in the top-16 — we al­most always play each other,” Louderback said. “If we’re not in [the top-16], we end up play­ing our first and second round at Northwestern; if they’re not in the top-16 and we are, they come here. So that’s part of it, too. We play not only once dur­ing the year, but we’ve played a lot regionally at the NCAA tournament, too.” 
The Wildcats are coming off a 6-1 road win over Wis­consin on Sunday, while the Irish swept DePaul 7-0 on Sat­urday. This match is the first of a tough three-match side that will also pit Notre Dame against No. 11 Baylor and No. 16 Texas A&M. 
“We’re at the point now where it’s important for us just to win as many matches as we can,” Louderback said. “We play three teams in a row that are ranked ahead of us, which is a great opportunity for us.” 
The Irish will offer serve against Northwestern at the Courtney Tennis Center — weather permitting — at 4 
p.m. Wednesday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 
DePaul looks for first win against Irish 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will take on Big East foe DePaul this afternoon in the first outdoor match at the Court­ney Tennis Center this season. 
The Irish (14-7, 1-1 Big East) are coming off two dominant victories last weekend against Ball State and St. Bonaventure. DePaul (11-12) had been na­tionally ranked for much of the year, but has recently dropped out. The Blue Demons are com­ing off two losses, both against ranked opposition. 
Irish coach Bob Bayliss is expecting the Blue Demons to come out strong. 
“[DePaul] is one of four or five teams that will contend for the Big East championship later this month in Tampa,” he said. “They have veteran players and have played a good schedule. They have good depth and will compete well here. I expect a tough match.” 
Preparation for DePaul has been typical for the Irish, and Bayliss said sticking to routine will bode well for Notre Dame. 
“We have been fortunate to get outdoors to practice the last two days,” Bayliss said. “We have not done anything differ­ently than a normal prepara­tion. Today we did volleying work and practiced returning serves. We kept the workout un­der an hour and a half to ensure fresh legs tomorrow.” 
The Irish are playing well lately and will be glad to have the home-court advantage this afternoon. Bayliss expects his squad will be able to handle the Blue Demons’ top players. The Irish have looked to senior Casey Watt and sophomore Greg Andrews for strong play all sea­son long, and will continue to do so moving forward. 
“We have gotten much stronger play at the top part of our lineup this year than last,” Bayliss said. “Casey has been pretty consistent for us and that has helped. Greg has blossomed at [the number-two spot] and has been able to fill in well at [the top spot] when needed.” 
Edging out DePaul will be the first step in making a strong close to the season for the Irish. Notre Dame has nev­er lost to DePaul, with the se­ries record currently standing at 26-0. 
“We are playing well at this point, but are feeling the ef­fects of several close losses that have kept us below where we expect to finish,” Bayliss said. “I believe that we can come on very strong as the year ends.” 
Notre Dame squares off with the Blue Demons at 4 p.m. Wednesday at home. 
Contact laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Notre Dame aims to keep streak alive 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish carry six straight wins into the final game of their opening home series this afternoon against Northwest­ern. Since defeating Western Michigan in their home opener March 27, Notre Dame has tri­umphed over Toledo in a dou­ble-header and Connecticut in a three-game matchup. 
“Coming off a home sweep of UConn, the Wildcats can expect to see a very confi­dent Irish defense and of­fense,” junior catcher Amy Buntin said. 
Hitting does not seem to be a problem for the Irish (17-10, 3-0 Big East), who have aver­aged nearly seven runs per game during the home stretch. The squad has most recently looked to senior outfielder Al­exa Maldonado and Buntin as leaders in the lineup. In the home opener last week, Bun-tin hit a home run in the bot­tom of the seventh to seal the Irish victory against Western Michigan. 
“I just hope to keep put­ting the ball in play hard, and making the Wildcat defense work,” Buntin said. 
The junior contributed three hits and Maldonado added two in the final game against Con­necticut, which the Irish won 7-2. Freshman infielder Katey Haus also stepped up for the Irish, adding two hits. 
On the mound, sophomore Laura Winter has found suc­cess with strikeouts and keep­ing runners off the bases. In the last game against Connecticut, she struck out four Huskies and managed to avoid issuing a sin­gle walk. 
While the Irish have a string of victories, Buntin said they come to each game with the same mentality. 
“Honestly, as a team we ap­proach each game with the same composure and confi­dence no matter who our oppo­nent might be that day,” Buntin said. 
Northwestern (14-18, 2-4 Big Ten) is coming off an 8-3 win against Wisconsin in which the team scored six runs in the fifth inning to take the lead af­ter a slow start. Junior pitch­er Meghan Lamberth led the strong defensive side for North­western, yielding just seven hits to the Badgers. 
Notre Dame looks to conclude its home stand against the Wild­cats in the same manner as its first six home games. 
“I think anytime we play at home, we are at a great advan­tage thanks to our fan support each and every game,” Buntin said. “Without our fans, this game would not be nearly as ex­citing.” 
The Irish take on Northwest­ern on Wednesday with first pitch thrown out at 5 p.m. in Melissa Cox Stadium. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 

MEN’S GOLF 
Walker leads Irish at Woodlands tournament 
and host Houston will provide stiff competition for the Irish, Kubinski said. 
“I’ve said to my guys a lot that it will be very tough to go into Texas and beat these teams on their home turf,” Ku­binski said. “We’ll need to play very well.” 
Notre Dame is currently ranked 64th in the nation, according to Golfweek maga­zine, well below where the Irish had hoped to find them­selves, but there is still time to make up ground. With the Big East tournament less than a month away, the Irish view the Intercollegiate as an op­portunity to make a statement and defend their standing as the highest-rated team in the conference. 
“We’re getting down to­wards the end of the year,” Kubinski said. “We’d love a strong, top-5 finish here to re­ally solidify our position going into the postseason.” 
The Irish take to the course for the All-American Intercol­legiate beginning April 9 in Houston. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Struggling Friars pay a visit 

By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After more than two weeks off, the Irish return to competi­tion Monday and Tuesday at the All-American Intercollegiate at the Woodlands Course in Hous­ton. 
The tournament will be a homecoming for Irish senior Chris Walker, who grew up playing the Woodlands Course. 
The Woodlands, Tex., native will headline the Irish quintet entered in the Intercollegiate, a unit that has returned to equi­librium following a period of turbulence the past few weeks. For Irish coach Jim Kubinski, it is all about finding the com­bination of golfers who will consistently post four strong, countable scores. 
“We’re going to have the three seniors in there [Walker, Max Scodro, Tom Usher], es­pecially with it being Walker’s home course,” Kubinski said. “Tom [Usher] just needed a rest last week. He’s been back to playing well. [Junior] Paul McNamara actually won our challenge match this week, so he’ll be in there. We just have to figure out how to post four good scores instead of two or three. That’s what we need to compete.” 
One golfer Kubinski has not had to worry about this year has been Scodro. The senior re­cently earned the title of the Big East Golfer of the Week for the second consecutive week for his fourth-place finish at the Linger Longer Invitational in Eatonton, Ga., on March 25. The finish marked the seventh tournament this season in which Scodro fin­ished in the top-25 individually. Scodro and sophomore Niall Platt have been entrenched as Notre Dame’s top-two for most of the year, but beyond that, the field has been less stable. 
At the Linger Longer Invita­tional, Kubinski inserted sopho­more Andrew Lane into Usher’s spot, hoping to kick-start the lineup. Lane failed to hold on to the spot, however, and Usher will return to his spot in the top five. 
“We’ve just been trying to find the right combination, and I have confidence in these guys,” Kubinski said. “We’re trying to get back to how we were playing at the end of the fall season.” 
The Intercollegiate will fea­ture a number of top teams, es­pecially hailing from the state of Texas. Baylor, Texas Tech, 


By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
After heading east last weekend to participate in the Big City Classic, the No. 6 Irish return to the friendly confines of Arlotta Stadium on Satur­day afternoon to face Big East foe Providence. 
Fresh off a 13-6 victory over St. John’s in East Rutherford, N.J., in which the Irish (7-1, 2-0 Big East) trailed at half­time before dominating the second half, Notre Dame will look to extend its winning streak to seven when it hosts the Friars (1-7, 0-3). 
Providence will play its third game in eight days after losing to Rutgers in overtime March 31 and hosting Yale on Tues­day. The Friars have had a rough season up to this point, having been outscored 76-63 on the season entering last night’s game against the Bull­dogs, including a 27-12 margin in the first period. 
While the only win for Prov­idence came in late February against Wagner, the return of senior attack Jake Nolan on Sat­urday following a four-game ab­sence provided a spark for the Friars. Nolan, who led the team in scoring last year and is cur­rently second this year despite playing in only half of Provi­dence’s games, scored twice against the Scarlet Knights. In addition, three Friar losses have been by two goals or less, suggesting the Friars’ record might be more competitive than their record indicates. 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said Providence’s unique style of play could provide a chal­lenge for the Irish. 
“[Providence has] got a young team and they play a little dif­ferent than a lot of people do, which is a challenge in itself,” Corrigan said. “This time of year, you get kind of to the point where you’ve seen enough things where you get comfort­able against them. When you play a team that plays different­ly, you go back to the beginning of the year. 
“They’re a challenge that way, and they’ve got a good team. They’ve played everyone tre­mendously, and I think they’re a team on the cusp.” 
Though it might be easy for the Irish to overlook one-win Providence, Corrigan has stressed to his team the impor­tance of focusing on itself in­stead of on the opposition. 
“One of the things we talked about [Sunday] is that we want to concentrate on ourselves. We don’t want to play according to our competition,” Corrigan said. “I hope they play with con­fidence, but not with arrogance. There’s a fine line between the two when you’re playing against a team, thinking, ‘we’re 7-1, and they’re 1-7.’” 
The Irish will look to improve their Big East and overall record when they take on Providence at Arlotta Stadium on Saturday at 
1:30 p.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 



JULIE HERDER/The Observer 
Freshman Connor Biggio bunts during Notre Dame’s 7-3 victory over Toledo at Frank 
Eck Stadium on Tuesday. Biggio went 0-for-4 on the day. 
Roster 
continued from page 24 
paint what he wants, because it is just his second year with a program trying to recapture what once was. 
And, to be honest, he cer­tainly has the inspiration for this masterpiece. 
Junior catcher Joe Hudson wasn’t supposed to be the guy to lead this offense, let alone do anything outside of gunning down base-stealers from behind the dish. It seems as though Hud­son has pulled a line from one of the greatest sports movies of all time, “Field of Dreams”: “Build it and they will come,” with the ‘it’ being his batting average and ‘they’ being major league scouts. The catcher has gone from a management consulting major to a star who could have the chance to consult with managers about his stance in the minor leagues next year. If he keeps it going at this rate (.402 batting average, 24 RBIs), he could easily go in the first 10 rounds of the MLB Draft and be on his way to the Show. 
Sure, he has been a revelation for an offense that left men on base last season like it was the ‘cool’ thing to do. But you don’t build a team around Hudson. You let him lead by example and supplement the young guns, the guys who will form this new identity of Irish baseball. 
The new wave includes the sophomore duo of Eric Jagielo and Trey Mancini, who hold down the infield corners. Last season, Mancini singlehandedly led the Irish offense (if you could even call it an offense) and was the sole bright spot in the lineup. Jagielo, meanwhile, leads the Irish with six home runs this year to accompany his position change to the hot corner. 
Then there are the promising freshmen. One has a legacy in his last name, the other has a legacy in another sport. 
Outfielder Conor Biggio has shown he inherited the ice in his veins from his pops, future hall of famer Craig Biggio. Big­gio is one of the few freshmen who broke into the Irish lineup, and already has a few clutch hits to his name. 
Then there is right-handed pitcher Pat Connaughton, who recently joined the team after breaking into the starting lineup for Mike Brey across the way at the Joyce Center.  The six-foot­five forward has shown his passion for America’s Pastime by starting a game on the mound less than four days after losing to Xavier in the NCAA tournament. His end: the strikeout, his means: an overpowering fastball. 
Aoki tells a story of how Connaughton, after scoring a career-high 23 points to upset No. 15 Marquette on the hardwood, came across the parking lot to Frank Eck Stadium to throw a bullpen session. And man-oh-man, can this guy throw. 
These are Mik’s boys, his masterpiece. 
And if he had to compare them to one major league team, Aoki would probably hope for last year’s Cardi­nals. They came out of no­where, against all odds, and did something with their season. 
Paintings take time, mas­terpieces need talent. He’s got both. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 



Jagielo 
continued from page 24 
coach Mik Aoki said. “I just think that the sky is the limit for that kid. He has such easy pow­er, and as he really learns how to hit a little bit more and learns his swing a little bit more, I think he’s going to be one of the best hitters in the country.” 
Jagielo’s homer brought the Irish even with Toledo, and the bullpen shut the door from there. Toledo was held to just one hit in its last four innings 
– a collaborative effort from several different Irish arms. 
For a unit that has had its share of ups and downs early in 2012, Aoki said he was pleased with the solid performance from his relievers. 
“I thought [the bullpen] did a good job,” he said. “[Senior] Steve Sabatino came in and threw strikes. [Freshman] Matty Ternowchek got his, and [sophomore] Danny Slania did a nice job too.” 
After junior outfielder Charlie Markson helped spark a two-run rally in the sixth, the heart of the order stepped up again for Notre Dame in the eighth to put the game away. Toledo chose to pitch around Jagielo, loading the bases for Mancini. The sophomore first baseman worked a full count, then hit a two-run single to center to ce­ment the final scoreline. 
For Aoki, the core of Jagielo, Mancini and Hudson – who’s hitting .402 on the year – has been the key to Notre Dame’s of­fensive production early on this season. 
“The middle of our lineup has done it all year long,” Aoki said. “Our three-four-five guys are hitting .350, .350, and .400-something, and they’ve all got over twenty RBIs. I don’t know how much more you can expect out of the middle of the lineup, and they’ve been doing it all year.” 
After the non-conference vic­tory, the Irish will head east for a three-game conference series at Seton Hall, starting with a Holy Thursday doubleheader. The Pirates (13-14, 2-4 Big East) boast one of the strongest pitching staffs in the Big East, and should pose a challenge to Notre Dame’s hot bats. 
“Seton Hall is a team that can pitch the heck out of it, and of course they’re the defending Big East tournament champs,” Aoki said. “They’ve struggled a little bit at the plate, but their pitching is so good that they’re in every game. They’re a really competitive, hard-nosed group, so we’re really going to have to go in there and really be our best in order to come away with a result.” 
First pitch of the series will be thrown at 1 p.m. Thursday in South Orange, N.J., with the second game scheduled for 4 
p.m. The Irish close the series at 1 p.m. on Saturday. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 


Orange 
continued from page 24 
per game. 
“They’ve got some very nice speed, and they’re definitely doing a nice job offensively get­ting some big outputs from a number of scoring threats,” Halfpenny said. “Defensively, I think they play a really aggres­sive game and have the ability to change the momentum of the game. But I think we do a nice job of matching them from top to bottom in terms of depth and speed.” 
Halfpenny said the team’s game plan for Syracuse revolves around smart play as well as an emphasis on the high-powered offensive attack that has char­acterized the Irish’s play this season. 
“It’s going to be really impor­tant that we are aware of ev­erybody’s needs on each unit,” Halfpenny said. “If we’re play­ing in a high-pressure situa­tion, it’s important that, when we do gain control of the ball, we have a nice complement of possession and an attack­ing offense. We’re looking to play the Notre Dame brand of lacrosse, which is a high-scoring affair, but also allows our defense to be successful by controlling the game when we have possession.” 
After hosting the Orange, Notre Dame will face a quick turnaround as they prepare to play Villanova (2-7, 0-1) on Saturday. The Wildcats have struggled this season, losing seven of their last eight con­tests and only topping the 10­goal mark twice this season. Senior attack Justine Donodeo leads the Wildcats with 22 goals, while junior defender Shawna Giust, who has won 16 ground balls on the season, anchors the team’s defensive front. 
Despite the quick turn­around between games, Half­penny said she is confident the Irish will be able to avoid a let­down against Villanova. 
“We’ve already had quick turnarounds over spring break and last weekend,” Halfpenny said. “Our girls un­derstand how to close the door on one game and get focused on the next one.” 
The Irish will look to start a new winning streak when they battle Syracuse at 7 p.m. Thursday in Arlotta Stadium and host Villanova at 11 a.m. Saturday. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnett@nd.edu 
Floyd 
continued from page 24 
and he wanted me to come back and throw for his Pro Day,” Clausen said.  “And I said I would have to make a few phone calls and I had my agent talk to the Panthers. And I talked to coaches here and they all said okay. It was a good op­portunity for me to come back and get back with Mike and throwing with some of the guys.” 
NFL Network draft analyst Mike Mayock, who was also in attendance, said Floyd looked like a top-10 pick in April’s NFL Draft. 
“In my book [Floyd is a top­10 pick]. If you take the off­the-field stuff away and just watch the tape, he compares very favorable to [Oklahoma State’s] Justin Blackmon,” Mayock said. “In my opinion, Jacksonville at No. 7 starts his interest. I don’t think he gets past [No.] 16 with the Jets. Then I think there are some teams down there like Chicago at [No.] 19 who would love to have Michael Floyd.” 
Meanwhile, Mayock came away impressed with for­mer Irish safety Harrison Smith’s athleticism and smarts. 
 “I think he is a solid second round pick, and if somebody got stuck at the end of the first round and needed a good football play­er, I wouldn’t be stunned if he went,” Mayock said. 
Smith said the process of preparing for the draft has been a cycle of workouts from the day the season end­ed. 
“It’s just working out ev­ery day,” the former captain said. “I’ve worked out from the [Champs Sports Bowl] to the Senior Bowl, from the Se­nior Bowl to the [NFL] Com­bine, and from the Combine until now. And now it’s go­ing through visits and inter­views with teams. So it’s a hectic process.” 
Former Irish cornerbacks Robert Blanton and Gary Gray, offensive lineman Tay­lor Dever and Trevor Robin­son, linebacker Darius Flem­ing, kicker David Ruffer and running back Jonas Gray also participated in Pro Day. 
Mayock said Fleming and Blanton did the most for their respective draft stock. Fleming surprised scouts by running the 40-yard dash in 
4.54 seconds, good enough for the third-best among linebackers at the NFL Com­bine.  
“[Blanton and Fleming] both ran in the 4.5 range,” Mayock said. “I have been a believer for a long time. I think Blanton is a real qual­ity safety prospect. Some people think that is a cut but it is not. It’s a comple­ment ... Darius Fleming to me is underrated. He is one of those tweener-size guys at 247-pounds...He is more ex­plosive than teams thought. He will be a core special teams player.” 
Contact andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 


WILL SHORTz 
EUgENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 



KELLy LyNCH and JOE MILLER 
HENRy ARNOLD 
THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARgIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, April 4, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Former players impress at Pro Day 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Associate Sports Editor 
Former Irish receiver Mi­chael Floyd was feeling the love at Notre Dame’s Pro Day on Tuesday, eagerly chat­ting it up with Chicago Bears coach Lovie Smith following Floyd’s impressive workout at the Loftus Center. 
“He just said I did a good job,” Floyd said with a grin. “Just to keep working hard and just stay focused.” 
Smith joined Cincinnati Bengals coach Marvin Lewis and San Diego Chargers gen­eral manager A.J. Smith in attendance, among a multi­tude of scouts to watch the six-foot-three receiver haul in passes from Carolina Pan­thers and former Notre Dame quarterback Jimmy Clausen. 
Clausen and Floyd com­bined for 16 touchdowns and well over a thousand yards a team. And I am just glad in their two seasons togeth-that I stayed [at Notre Dame] er. Tuesday afternoon, their and get to graduate in May. chemistry was on full dis-“It’s kind of crazy. I never play, as Clausen connected really thought I would be in with Floyd on every pass. this position. But I worked 
“I am in a great position to hard, and the people in my reach my goal of playing in life worked hard to get me to the NFL,” Floyd said. “And this point.” hopefully I put [myself] in a Unofficially, in front of NFL good position to be picked by scouts, it was a Pro Day of sorts for Clausen, who lost his starting job last sea­son to Offensive Rookie of the Year Cam Newton. But ultimately, Clausen said he welcomed the opportu­nity to come back and play catch with his old target. 

“I talked to Mike [Floyd] 
see FLOYD/page 22 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish try to rebound against the Orange 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
After seeing their unde­feated record fall last week­end, the No. 6 Irish will look to rebound under the national spotlight Thursday at Arlotta Stadium when they square off with No. 2 Syracuse. The game against the Orange is part of a quick two-game homestand that also features a matchup with Villanova on Saturday. 
Notre Dame (8-1, 2-1) em­barked on a similar stretch of two games in three days last weekend, when it made a conference road trip to Rut­gers and No. 15 Loyola (Md.). The Irish captured a thrill­ing 13-12 overtime win over the Scarlet Knights on Friday with a game-winning goal by sophomore midfielder Marga­ret Smith, but saw their hopes of an undefeated season van­ish in a 17-11 loss to Loyola on Sunday, due mainly to a cru­cial 8-0 Greyhounds scoring run in the second half. 
Irish coach Christine Half­penny said she has confidence in her team’s ability to rebound from their first loss. 
“Obviously, I don’t have a crystal ball in front of me, but I’ve seen our team respond re­ally well to adversity over the course of the year,” Halfpenny said. “They’ve done a great job of getting rest, getting perspec­tive, taking a look at what’s gone well and what they have to fix, and they’ve rebounded tre­mendously.” 
Notre Dame will be given a grand stage on which to re­spond when they play Syra­cuse (6-2, 1-0) in a home night game televised by CBS Sports Network, marking the first ap­pearance for the Irish on televi­sion this season.  The Irish will face a formidable opponent in the Orange, who are currently on a five-game winning streak, featuring victories over No. 5 Florida, No. 3 Maryland and then-No. 18 Towson. The Or­ange feature a high-powered of­fense, headed by sophomore at­tack Alyssa Murray, who leads the team with 25 goals, and a defense allowing 9.125 goals 
see ORANGE/page 22 
BASEBALL 

Rocking the Rockets 
Heart of batting order 


These Irish might shines against Toledo 
just stick around 
By JACK HEFFERON 
We see it all too often. That 
Sports Writer 

young, inexperienced baseball club coming off a disappoint-Notre Dame’s win over Toledo 
ing year starts the season hot, on Tuesday night was straight 
catching everyone by surprise from the heart. 
before cooling off and missing Sophomore third baseman 
the post-Eric Jagielo, sophomore first 
season. baseman Trey Mancini and 
But this junior catcher Joe Hudson ­
team is the heart of the Irish batting 
not the order - continued to build on 
Indians. their strong start to the year, 
There coming up with the timely hit-
really is ting their team needed in a 7-3 
no legacy, win over the Rockets (12-15, 
or anyone 3-3 MAC). 
on the After Irish junior starter Pat-
roster rick Veerkamp surrendered 

who has three runs on just four hits, the 
ever Irish (17-10, 4-2 Big East) found 
tasted themselves in a 3-2 hole. In the 
the post-bottom half of the fifth inning, 
season Jagielo stepped up to the plate 
in the NCAA tournament. and changed the momentum 
So this is no Yankees team with one swing of the bat. With 
either. the bases empty and two men 
There are no stars, just the gone, the sophomore crushed a 
occasional stud. The coach solo homer well over the right 
isn’t a high-profile contro­field fence. 
versial figure, just a humble, After battling inconsistency 
driven family man. as a freshman, Jagielo’s moon-
We have yet to see a Jeff shot showed another glimpse of 
Samardzija or a Craig Counsell his remarkable potential. 
emerge, but there is no pres­“I know [Jagielo] struggled 
sure for this young team. The from time to time last year, but 
canvas is still blank, and Irish I think he’s coming into his own 
coach Mik Aoki is Bob Ross, 
JULIE HERDER/The Observer 

a little more this year,” Irish minus the afro. He gets to 
Junior catcher Joe Hudson makes contact with a pitch during Notre Dame’s 7-3 victory over Toledo see JAGIELO/page 21 at Frank Eck Stadium on Tuesday. Hudson went 1-for-5 and scored a run. see ROSTER/page 21 


Peters’ foul trouble plagues Irish 

By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Trying to beat Baylor in the na­tional championship is tough enough. Trying to beat Baylor with 6-foot-2 graduate student forward Devereaux Peters on the bench for more than half of the game is even tougher. 
Early foul trouble for Peters inhib­ited Notre Dame’s ability to keep up with the Bears’ defense, especially junior center Brittney Griner, for the entirety of the 80-61 Irish loss for the national title at the Pepsi Center in Denver. Peters went to the bench early in the first half, but came back in and helped the Irish climb to a six-point deficit before the break. She sat out again in the second half and the Bears ran away with the lead. 
“It was really disappointing that [Peters] got the third foul in the first half,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “That was really disappointing. Because she was why we made that run, having her back in.” 
With Notre Dame’s top rebounder off the court for most of the game, Griner flirted with the possibility of a triple-double, put up 26 points for the Bears, had 13 rebounds and made five steals to wrap up the Bears’ per­fect 40-0 season and national cham­pionship win. 
“When [Griner] got the ball we didn’t lean on her and she shot over us,” McGraw said. “She made great shots, she’s a great player. She was unstoppable. 
“It would have been great to see Devereaux play 39 minutes, but I don’t think it would have changed a lot. [Griner] is one-of-a-kind.” 
Throughout the season, Peters averaged 24.5 minutes of play per game, but plagued by fouls in the title game, Peters spent just 15 minutes on the court. During the season she av­eraged 9.4 rebounds a game overall and 10.9 in the Big East, but grabbed only 3 against the Bears. 
“We just couldn’t get key stops when we needed to,” Peters said. “Down three, we give up an offensive rebound, they get a put back. Or we might have a call not go our way and get a foul and then we’re not as ag­gressive as we normally were. We just were struggling today and it showed.” 
Peters went 3-for-5 from the field for a total seven points. 
“I thought we did a great job get­ting [Peters] in foul trouble because 
NOTES 

Quartet caps historic tenure at ND 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Senior Sports Writer 
DENVER — Graduate students De­vereaux Peters and Brittany Mallory and seniors Natalie Novosel and Fra­derica Miller leave Notre Dame as one of its most accomplished classes. The foursome compiled 142 wins and one Big East regular season title, while reaching four Sweet Sixteens, two Fi­nal Fours and two National Champion­ships in their combined five seasons. 
“I’m just completely just so proud of them and what we’ve done this year and how we fought back,” Peters said. “Even this game we didn’t quit throughout the game. I’m just happy for them and for what we’ve accom­plished in our careers. Not many peo­ple can say what we’ve done.” 
Back-to-back national runner-up 
Notre Dame has now lost back-to­back national championship games, falling to Baylor 80-61 after losing to Texas A&M 76-70 in 2011. Notre Dame became the third team to do so, join­ing Tennessee in 2003 and 2004 and Auburn in 1988, 1989 and 1990. 
“I feel a little numb right now,” No­vosel said. “To get all the way back to this point, it hurts the most because we came up short once again. To come all this way, especially as a senior, and wanting and willing a sense of urgen­cy to come back this whole way and to not be able to come out on top against is what hurts the most.” 
Senior-itis 
Devereaux Peters was on the floor for just 15 minutes and played in foul trouble all night, finishing with four fouls. Her regular-season average was 
24.5 minutes per game. 
Natalie Novosel failed to record a field goal Tuesday, finishing 0-for-11 from the floor and five-for-eight on free throws. Novosel led Notre Dame in scoring with 28 points in its Nov. 20 loss to Baylor. 
“I was trying to get confidence bas­kets, trying to get a layup or get to the line, and even my free throws weren’t going in,” Novosel said. “I thought they she helped Notre Dame out with re­bounds and blocking shots,” Baylor redshirt junior forward Destiny Wil­liams said. “We had to rebound. We couldn’t allow them to get second-chance points. If so, it would have kept them in the game, and we had to limit them to one shot. A couple times they did and they’d score off it. And it’s something that we had to do in or­der to win.” 


Sophomore forward Natalie Achon­wa and freshman forward Markisha Wright got a chance to play the posi­tion in a national championship situ­ation that does not usually lend itself to much dependence on the bench. But with Peters on the bench, they got prime preparation for their future seasons with the Irish in that role. 
Achonwa tied graduate student guard Brittany Mallory in rebounds for the Irish with six. 
“I think [foul trouble is] something we’ve had to deal with before,” Peters said. “It wasn’t that difficult. It’s a po­sition we’ve been in. We’re fighters. We never quit. We’ve never been that type of team.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

did a really good job on me defensively, not helping off me at all so I could get a clean look at the basket. They always had a hand in my face.” 
Big time on the big stage 
Baylor junior center Brittney Griner registered 26 points, 13 rebounds and five blocks in the win, earning herself the title of Final Four Most Outstand­ing Player. Prior to the contest, Griner was named the Associated Press Play­er of the Year, the Naismith Player of the Year and the Wade Trophy winner. 
“Brittany Griner comes to work ev­ery day,” Baylor coach Kim Mulkey said. “A lot of great players think they’re all that and they half go through drills and they come to prac­tice and they dog it. That child comes to work and brings her work pail every day.” 
Sports writer Kelsey Manning also contributed to this report. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 






Title game heartbreak 
A dominant performance from Baylor junior center Brittney Griner handed Notre Dame a loss in the national championship game for the second straight season. Lady Bears sophomore forward Odyssey Sims added 19 points of her own and Notre Dame All-American Skylar Diggins scored 20 points as Baylor built a second-half lead and cruised to an 80-61 victory. 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 



PAT COVENEY/The Observer PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Clockwise from top: Irish senior guard Natalie Novosel rises for a shot attempt; Baylor guard Odyssey Sims shoots from the corner; Baylor center Brittney Griner blocks an Irish shot attempt; Notre Dame junior guard Skylar Diggins attemps a shot over Griner; Irish coach Muffet McGraw cries during the postgame press conference. 




