The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 57 | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Alumni serve in Washington 
Two graduates elected to Congress, join three others in nation’s capital 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
with five alumni gaining or holding seats in congress following last week’s elec­tion, the university’s ties to national politics are more prominent than ever. 
rep. Joe donnelly’s elec­tion to the u.s. senate, Keith rothfus’s win for a seat in the house of representatives and the re-elections of peter visclosky, peter King and michael Kelly to the house offer strong avenues for ad­vocating the university’s in­terests on capitol hill said John sturm, associate vice president for Federal and washington relations. 
sturm, a 1969 notre dame graduate, was appointed to the newly-formed position on June 1. he’s been tasked with communicating the university’s views to fed­eral officials, including the aforementioned alumni. 
he said the degree to which the university works with alumni in washington depends on the committees they sit on. 
“we don’t know what com­mittees [donnelly] is going to serve on,” he said. “That has some effect on what he does and how he might in­terface with the university.” 
regardless of where donnelly ends up, sturm is excited for the opportunity to collaborate with the 1977 alumnus. 
see congress PAGE 4 




hackett highlights growth 
By TORI ROECK 
news writer 
in preparation for meet­ings of the advisory board of the Kellogg institute for international studies, Ken hackett, former president of catholic relief services, and ray offenheiser, president of oxfam america and 1971 notre dame graduate, presented suggestions for how notre dame can better contribute to human develop­ment worldwide. 
hackett said notre dame’s 
see oXFam PAGE 5 



Motivational speaker lectures at Key Bank event 
place. That’s what i do.” balance. entrepreneur and creative coming in and wanting to lose 
By ANNA BOARINI 

news writer arredia spoke at saint “all the things that i do … businesswoman how do weight and get fit but what i mary’s on Thursday night for 
you keep your connection found more than anything 
Joni Arredia
motivational speaker 


jazzercise franchise. the ‘Fit or Fat’ method under always follows through. i use tures she is involved in, 
in people, i am a creative that with all the different ven­
“i was teaching about 500 cover bailey and became a this gift that god has given arredia said she understands they feel that i balance life students a week,” she said. “i me to make the world a better the importance of lifestyle very well,” she said. “as an really found that people were see arredia PAGE 5 
as a motivational speaker, a Key bank event. to yourself, your family and they were looking for a place 
writer and artist Joni arredia “i’m talking about lifestyle your business … [with] space that made them feel good.” 
tries to find the best in balance, “ she said. “Key in your life to balance.” while teaching jazzercise, 
bank puts this event on for motivational speaking was arredia also became inter-
everyone. 

“i reflect goodness,” she women business owners that not arredia’s first career ested in the nutritional end 
said. “i love finding the best are their clients.” choice. in 1982, she bought a of fitness. she studied with 


politican discusses ireland’s global economy 

By DAN BROMBACH 
news writer 
Those who picture ireland in terms of sheep and roll­ing green landscapes may be shocked to learn the nation is far more than just a leader in agricultural exports: it is a business hub drawing ma­jor financial, technology and pharmaceutical corpora­tions from around the globe. 
in her lecture Thursday titled, “an irish perspective: doing business in a global economy,” irish politician and legislator mary hanafin detailed ireland’s success­ful integration into today’s highly interconnected global economy. 
hanafin attributed ireland’s increased global economic integration in large part to the recent de­cline in sectarian violence and conflict between the northern and southern re­gions of the country. she said ireland’s transformation into a “nation at peace,” a na­tion emphasizing friendship and cooperation rather than strife, has helped redefine negative perceptions of the country, improving not only the lives of citizens but the health of the economy. 
“during those early 70s years, when you said to peo­ple, particularly people who didn’t speak english, that you were from ireland, they would say ‘boom boom,’ and they didn’t mean an eco­nomic boom,” hanafin said. “They meant fighting and bombs and killing.” 
hanafin said taking a stroll through dublin, the capital city, will reveal to any visitor 
see ireland PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 9 inTerhall insider WITHIN 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
These are a few of my favorite things... 


Tori Wilbraham 
sophomore 
holy cross 

“l.e. evans and the east coast.” 

L.E. Evans 
sophomore 
holy cross 

“Tori wilbraham, snow and more snow.” 

Madison Maidment 
sophomore 
lemans 

“canada, red starbucks cups and the lake.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Aneth Batamuliza 
sophomore 
mccandless 

“Friends, cozy sweaters, rwanda and family.” 

Sarah McGough 
junior 
cavanaugh 

“autumn spice and Falling leaves Febreeze air freshener and touching down at laX.” 

Sharia Smith 
sophomore 
pasquerilla west 

“raindrops and roses and whiskers on kittens.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
anna boarini Jack hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
bridget Feeney vicky Jacobsen maddie daly peter steiner 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
sara shoemake Kevin noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Towshends and the “What’s So Funny Women’s Basketball Fundraiser Night Women’s Basketball 
Kevin song laura rosas 

Global Crisis of 1763” About a Joke?” Purcell Pavilion at the Between the Buns Purcell Pavilion at the 424 Flanner Hall Snite Museum of Art Joyce Center All day. Joyce Center 3 p.m. 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 15% of sales go 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
Corrections 

Lecture on reforming Discussion of Freud’s ND vs. Massachusetts towards Dance ND vs. Mercer 
The observer regards itself as Ireland and America. theory of jokes. Tickets $5-$9 Marathon. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Notre Dame Glee Roller Skates and Men’s Soccer “Mary and the Film: “His Girl Friday” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Club Concert Sonic Alumni Stadium Season of Advent” DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Performing LaFortune Student 2 p.m.-4 p.m. Geddes Hall Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Arts Center Center NCAA Championship 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 8 p.m.-9:35 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
8 p.m.-9 p.m. 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. second round. Presentation by Rev. Free with student ID. 
we can correct our error. 

Tickets $5-$10 Indoor skating. ND vs. MSU Brian Daley. 


Students study, research abroad in Cambridge 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
news writer 
graduate students in the italian program in the department of romance languages and literatures have the opportunity to work with leading academics at the university of cambridge. 
Zygmunt baranski, emeritus serena professor of italian at the university of cambridge, joined the notre dame college of arts and letters faculty in 2011 as its first notre dame professor of dante and italian studies. 
“The italian sections are relatively small and this partnership with cambridge ensures that students have contact with a broader range of professors, libraries and re­sources,” baranski said. 
every year, one notre dame student goes to cambridge and one cambridge student comes to notre dame for a semester. This program is aimed exclusively for phd stu­dents who are already writing a thesis in italian. They will have an advisor who will help them with their research and they will maintain a link once they have gone back to their host institution, baranski said. 
damiano benvegnu, a cur­rent ph.d. candidate in the interdisciplinary ph.d. in literature program at the university of notre dame. he was the first notre dame graduate student to partici­pate in the exchange. his dis­sertation research, “primo levi and the Question of the animal,” investigates the animal imagery in the work of the Jewish-italian writer primo levi, focusing on how his literature operates when the human/animal divide is at stake. he will defend his dissertation in may 2013. 
“in this research i com­pare what has been consid­ered the hyper-humanistic literary production of primo levi with the post-human­istic trend in contemporary philosophy,” benvegnu said. “This comparison helps us to rethink not simply levi’s literature and his holocaust testimony, but also both the ethical and epistemological complexity of the human/an­imal divide(s) and the crisis of traditional humanism in the second half of the twenti­eth century.” 
benvegnu spent the 2011 michaelmas Term (september to december) at cambridge and was part of Trinity hall college. 

“i had the opportuni­ty to work at the fantastic university library there and to have almost weekly meet­ings with professor robert gordon, head of department of italian at the university of cambridge, and one of most prominent scholars in modern italian literature,” benvegu said. “The oppor­tunity to work with him not only was incredibly enjoyable and stimulating, but helped me to better frame my own research and ideas.” 
beatrice priest, a cambridge student, came to notre dame last year. 

“i learned a great deal from the graduate research semi­nars, made extensive use of the libraries, including the special dante collections, and had many stimulating discussions with professors, post-docs, and other gradu­ate students about dante, the middle ages, and beyond,” priest said. “additionally, the opportunity to teach american undergraduates italian language was tremen­dously rewarding. i would thoroughly recommend the exchange program to anyone thinking of participating in it.” 
baranski stressed the im­portance of international partnerships. 
“i believe that in academia there is a need to have inter­national ties,” he said. “since there is a limited number of faculty, we need to teach students the importance of collaboration so that there remains a healthy and proper exchange of ideas.” 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 

club sells treats for a charitable cause 
Junior mileva brunson, 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 

saint mary’s editor founder of the saint mary’s 
chapter, was excited to share 

This past week, saint the present and upcoming mary’s students, faculty goals for the club on campus. and staff had the oppor-“we creatively fundraise tunity to support she’s the throughout the year to First*{saint mary’s}, a new sponsor girls’ education in club on campus which is part developing countries. This of the national nonprofit or-week, we held our first fun­ganization, she’s the First. draiser, ‘Tie dye cupcakes 
paid adverTisemenT 

For a cause,’” brunson said. “all proceeds from the bake sale will go towards our goal of $360, which would spon­sor a year of school for a girl in uganda.” 
The cupcake fundrais­er was initially started by lindsay brown, the presi­dent of she’s the First*{notre dame}, where it became such a success that the or­ganization made it the na­tional campaign. 
“The goal for this year na­tionally is to raise $50,000 for girls education, and there has been amazing success all across the coun­try,” brunson said. “we have been posting a lot on social media. we post daily on our Facebook and Twitter, and a lot of girls who purchase a cupcake are instagraming them. it’s been great to see students posting in sup­port of she’s the First across many different social net­working sites.” 
brunson said she is thankful student reception of she’s the First has been great, as well as faculty sup­port for the chapter at saint mary’s. 
“we have had such won­derful support from both students and faculty. it’s great to have people come up to the table to buy a cup­cake, and then want to learn more about our mission and our goal for the fundraiser,” brunson said. 
while some students have 
“We are so lucky to be receiving an outstanding education here at Saint Mary’s and to give that opportunity of education to other girls around the world is so inspiring and I hope it has inspired the Saint Mary’s community as well.” 
Mileva Brunson 
junior 
founder of She’s the First 

joined brunson with she’s the First*{saint mary’s}, she is hoping that more will help raise awareness as the year progresses. 
“i would love to see this grow into a powerful force on campus, working to make a difference in girls’ education worldwide,” brunson said. “we are hop­ing to partner with the she’s the First chapter at notre dame and work to hold a fundraiser together. also, if we reach our fundrais­ing goal, we could get to know the girl we have spon­sored in uganda and begin to build a relationship with her and see how she is doing in school, which would be so rewarding.” 
as far as the cupcakes go, brunson knows students will take away more than just a sweet treat after vis­iting the club’s table outside the dining hall. 
“i hope that students re­alize how much of an im­pact they can have, just by buying a cupcake; be­cause what begins with a cupcake ends with a girl in school,” brunson said. “it is so inspiring to know that our actions this week are life-changing.” 
brunson wants others to remember each cupcake the club sells adds up to oppor­tunity for a girl in the devel­oping world and helps her to achieve her dreams. 
“we are so lucky to be re­ceiving an outstanding edu­cation here at saint mary’s,” brunson said, “and to give that opportunity of educa­tion to other girls around the world is so inspiring and i hope it has inspired the saint mary’s community as well.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Congress 
conTinued From page 1 
“not only is he a notre dame alum, but he comes from south bend. he lives locally and his wife works at the university,” he said. 
“King has been pretty prominent when major things happen around the world or domestically ... We’re waiting to see what happens with him.” 
John Sturm 
associate vice president for 
Federal and Washington 
Relations 
“That’s about as good a rela­tionship as one can expect, and frankly, Joe donnelly is a very easy person to be around.” 
sturm said future commit­tee placement is clearer for rep. visclosky, a 1973 gradu­ate of the law school return­ing for his 15th term in the house. 
“he’s been on the appropriations committee for ages. i think he’s likely to become the ranking member of the [defense] subcommit­tee ... that’s a pretty big deal,” sturm said. “congressman visclosky has been a terrific friend of notre dame. he re­cently visited campus and we were able to show him a few facilities where his help has brought fruit for notre dame.” 
given the limits on com­mittee chair tenures, rep. King’s committee assign­ment is unclear following his re-election, sturm said. 
“pete King has been chairman of the homeland security committee in the house ... we don’t know yet, but we should know fairly soon whether he’s going to move to another committee as chairman or if he’s going to get a waiver to continue on homeland security.” 
while the university has little at stake within the area of homeland security, King’s high profile has done much for the notre dame brand in washington, sturm said. 
“King has been pret­ty prominent when ma­jor things happen around the world or domestically,” sturm said. “he’s been on radio, television and news­papers a lot ... we’re waiting to see what happens with him.” 

as for the remaining alum­ni in congress, sturm said the formal interactions with the university have been minimal so far. 
“mike Kelly, i think he’s been on foreign affairs. we haven’t had much to do with congressman Kelly as of yet. committee assignments mean a lot,” he said. “Keith rothfus [hasn’t had] any committee assignments yet. we’re not really sure where he wants to go.” 
regardless of whether their area of policy focus is directly relevant to the university, sturm said each 
elected  alumnus  benefits  
notre dame.  
“The  more  the  merrier.  

when members are notre dame alums ... for example, they can have an effect — es­pecially if they’re the chair­man or ranking member on a committee — on witnesses brought into a hearing,” he said. “To have witnesses in front of congress to provide information for policy mak­ers, they get quoted in the press or appear on Tv, all that contributes to the over­all image and success of the university.” 
sturm said the alumni vot­ed into office last week aren’t the only ones on capitol hill building the notre dame alumni presence. 
“There’s also a strong, great group of notre dame alumni, parents and friends who make their living 
“Representing the University of Notre Dame, I don’t think there are too many people who haven’t heard of us. It’s a great brand. Other than some of the Ivies...we’re in that league, generally speaking.” 
John Sturm 
associate vice president for 
Federal and Washington 
Relations 

around the federal govern­ment – lawyers, lobbyists, trade association folks, jour­nalists, defense contrac­tors – who interact one way or another with the federal government or whose busi­nesses depend on the federal government,” he said. “For them to be successful and prominent is another way the university’s image goes north, and they’re a resource for notre dame.” 
while their relationship with the university doesn’t affect the voting or poli­cy stances of notre dame alumni in office, sturm said the affiliation allows for smoother communications. 
“it just is a lot easier. you have faster and easier ac­cess and there’s familiarity with the alums. i make it my business to get around and see them,” he said. “That ex­tends to the indiana delega­tion as well.” 
regardless of where offi­cials were educated, sturm said the university’s repu­
tation  carries  weight  in  
washington.  
“representing  the  

university of notre dame, i don’t think there are too many people who haven’t heard of us. it’s a great brand. other than some of the ivies ... we’re in that league, generally speaking,” he said. “partly because of our catholic significance and because of our reputa­tion as a great undergradu­ate school that produces people who are not only suc­cessful, but seem to be suc­cessful by doing things the right way.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Oxfam 
conTinued From page 1 
catholic faith should ground its international development ef­forts, especially in light of the vatican’s emphasis on “new 
“Bring the whole University behind something and stick to it. Small projects don’t make an impact, and this University has the capability to have a major impact on human development.” 
Ken Hackett 
former president 
Catholic Relief Services 
evangelization.” “[new evangelization is] about a new energy towards the revival of faith in the context of today’s culture,” hackett said. 
at a vatican synod concerning the topic, representatives from the church around the world presented the issues most threat­ening to catholic faith in their areas, such as secularization in north america and europe and radical islam and tribal conflicts in africa, hackett said. 
“as notre dame strives to evolve an international strategy that embodies the principles of catholic social Teaching and that creates linkages with the church and other institutions, i would suggest that notre dame … has to take into consideration many of these views and realities that the church has identified as part of the new evangelization,” he said. 
To do so, hackett said the Kellogg institute should devote resources to researching non­traditional approaches to hu­man development as well as to shaping public policy. 

in addition, the university as a whole should shift focus from many small, disparate programs in scattered regions of the world to a few big projects focused on particular regions. 
“bring the whole university behind something and stick to it,” hackett said. “small projects don’t make an impact, and this university has the capability to have a major impact on human development” 
hackett said a good example of this strategy is the notre dame haiti program, which draws on different strengths within notre dame to make an impact on a small geographic area. 
offenheiser, stressed the com­plicated nature of human de­velopment and said it requires a complex response that reflects its nature, especially in today’s world. 
“in many ways, to simply de­fine what human development is in today’s context, i would say 
perhaps it’s about states provid­ing basic public goods to their 
“Good development actually occurs when people own the process, think about, plan and own the process, taking risks as they do it, failing sometimes, but ultimately when they succeed, you get development on a secure course going forward.” 
Ray Offenheiser 
Oxfam America 
president 

citizens at scale, in education, health and perhaps environ­mental services,” he said. 
For notre dame to best ad­dress the many facets of human development, offenheiser said the university must pick out its strengths and use them to effect change. 
he identified some of these strengths as the university’s catholic faith, strong back­ground in human rights and work with corporate responsibility. 
The university should also tailor its development efforts to empowering governments themselves and enabling com­munities to thrive on their own, he said. 
“good development actually occurs when people own the process, think about, plan and own the process, taking risks as they do it, failing sometimes, but ultimately when they suc­ceed, you get development on a secure course going forward,” offenheiser said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
Arredia 
conTinued From page 1 
speaker for the program. 
Then, one day, arredia de­cided to speak for herself. 
“one day i thought i’ll just get on that stage and … speak about what i believe in,” she said. “it worked, it worked to the point that i got everyone crying, like 300 people.” 
arredia realized while she wanted to impact people with her words, but she need­ed a tutor to hone her speak­ing and motivating skills. 
“words are very, very powerful and you have to be very responsible [with them],” she said. “i took 
“Words are very, very powerful and you have to be very responsible [with them].” 
Joni Arredia 
motivational speaker 
about another year before started speaking to motivate people [again].” 
once she 

paid adverTisemenT 


began motivational speak­ing, arredia said she realized she wanted to be able to of­fer people something to take home to continue their jour­ney. it was then she decided to become an author. arredia has since written a newspa­per column on the east coast and has published two books. 
along with motivation­al speaking and writing, arredia is also a painter and a recent playwright. 
“i moved to chicago sev­en years ago and started to study [acting] ferociously for two years,” she said. 
arredia said she got 
Ireland 
conTinued From page 1 

the nation’s leading role in international business. she said dublin has become a major center for the commu­nications industry, attract­ing corporate giants such as microsoft, amazon and google. 
hanafin said ireland’s edu­cational system has played a large part in attracting foreign business and invest­ment by fostering a highly creative, technically skilled young worker population. 
“it is the quality and the availability of skilled people that make ireland attractive and special,” hanafin said. 
ireland’s membership in the european union, as well its low corporate tax rate of 
12.5 percent, also boosts its appeal among corporations interested in theatre because of her involvement in high school and she wanted to work in a team again. 
her play, ‘resurfacing’, de­buted in chicago in 2011. 
even with all she has ac­complished in her life, arredia said her work with hut outreach, a Toledo, ohio-based organization in haiti has been the “coolest thing in my life, other than my family.” 
“i went to haiti in January, and when i came home worked furiously on piec­es [of artwork] and staged a show in my home,” she 
seeking high rates of re­turn on their investments, hanafin said. she said evi­dence of this can been seen in the large sums of money invested in ireland internationally. 
“The usa invests more dol­lars in ireland than it does in brazil, russia, india, china and south africa combined, and we’re only a little coun­try of 4.5 million people,” hanafin said. “but we’re also a country that takes our busi­ness, and our business with the world, very seriously.” 
hanafin said irish com­panies continue to think globally, providing every­thing from airport biomet­ric screening in Japan to a communications system that currently directs roughly 50 percent of mobile phone traf­fic in the united states. 
hanafin was most struck by the extent of this global said. “in one night we raised $20,000 dollars and went back a month later ... to work on some exciting outreach programs.” 
Through her career, arredia said she has been able to understand people more and realize how to mo­tivate them. 
“i just love it. it is so much fun,” she said.  “it is such a blast to watch light bulbs go off and peoples eyes sparkly. i thank god every day for this gift.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
economic integration upon visiting a children’s school in the united arab emirates. she said watching students use irish software to learn the Quran was “globalization at its best.” 
looking forward, hanafin said ireland will continue to foster cooperative economic ties with nations around the world, sharing its distinct culture and heritage while learning to appreciate the cultures of other peoples. 
“it is about respecting not only own our culture, but the culture of the countries with who we do business,” hanafin said. “it’s about ap­preciating the importance of dialogue, and friendship, and peace as a small, neu­tral nation in a very troubled world.” 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 




Visting fellow delivers ‘Last Lecture’ 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
dr. andrew bacevich, a visiting fellow from boston university, gave his “last lecture” Thursday as a series of talks hosted by the notre dame student government. Their talks highlight a different visiting professor every week. The professor is asked to give his “last lecture” where he or she discusses his or her ideas on life and lessons learned throughout it. 
bacevich, a professor of international relations, teaches a seminar course called “ideas and american Foreign policy” to students in history, peace studies and political science at notre dame. he is a visiting fellow through the Kroc institute for international peace studies. 
bacevich’s lecture focused on three main themes: vo­cation, history, and rooted­ness. he discussed regrets about mistakes he has made in his life in relation to these themes. 
“This is an invitation to re­flect on one’s life,” bacevich said, “and it tends to unearth a sense of regret. There are things i would do differently if given the chance to do it all over again.” 
bacevich said what he had learned about life’s vocation in the context of his own upbringing. 
raised as a catholic and sent to catholic schools un­til college, he said he heard often of three paths of life. 
“The nuns taught us that there are three vocations — religious life, marriage or the single life,” bacevich said. “what they did not teach is a broader under­

“Regret is not the theme of my existence. ... I have had many blessings, including being here at the University of Notre Dame.” 
Andrew Bacevich 
visiting fellow 
Boston University 

standing of vocation — pri­marily the question ‘what am i called to do in my life?’” 
bacevich urged all stu­dents to address this ques­tion earnestly before they leave notre dame. “The key to life is to do work that you find fulfilling and satisfying. what the world thinks about that work does not matter,” bacevich said. “deciding on your calling is your business and no one else’s.” 
bacevich then discussed his second theme, history. he urged all students, re­gardless of whether or not they are a history major, to use their time at notre dame “to think about the past and illuminate the present.” 
another point he made about history had to do with dealing with the past. 
“The best thing we can do as human beings with histo­ry is cope with it,” bacevich said. 
bacevich said he moved from place to place, never staying rooted, and said only when he began working at boston university as a pro­fessor did he finally estab­lish roots. “ 
“being a part of a com­munity is what makes us human,” bacevich said. “i really wish i had discovered that earlier.” 
bacevish left the students with a final piece of advice. 
“i encourage you to go have an adventure or tw2, but when you are finished, go back home, wherever it is, and put down some roots. it’s important to belong someplace,” he said. 
“regret is not the theme of my existence. … i have had many blessings, including being here at the university of notre dame.” 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 

chinese leaders select Xi Jinping as nation’s chief 
Associated Press 
beiJing — long-anointed successor Xi Jinping as­sumes the leadership of china at a time when the ruling communist party is confront­ing slower economic growth, a public clamor to end corrup­tion and demands for change that threaten its hold on power. 
The country’s political elite named Xi to the top party post on Thursday, and unexpect­edly put him in charge of the military too, after a weeklong party congress and months of divisive bargaining. 
The appointments give him broad authority, but not the luxury of time. after decades of juggernaut growth, china sits on the cusp of global pre­eminence as the second largest economy and newest power, but it also has urgent domestic troubles that could frustrate its rise. 
problems that have long festered — from the sputter­ing economy to friction with the u.s. and territorial spats with Japan and other neigh­bors — have worsened in re­cent months as the leadership focused on the power transfer. impatience has grown among entrepreneurs, others in the new middle class and migrant workers — all wired by social media and conditioned by two decades of rising living stan­dards to expect better govern­ment, if not democracy. 
all along, police have contin­ued to harass and jail a length­ening list of political foes, dissidents, civil rights lawyers and labor activists. 
Two young Tibetans died Thursday after setting them­selves ablaze in far west china, radio Free asia said, in the latest of dozens of suicide pro­tests over beijing’s handling of its Tibetan regions. 
in his first address to the na­tion, Xi, a 59-year-old son of a revolutionary hero, acknowl­edged the lengthy agenda for what should be the first of two five-year terms in office. he promised to deliver better social services while making sure china stands tall in the world and the party continues to rule. 
“our responsibility now is to rally and lead the entire party and the people of all eth­nic groups in china in taking over the historic baton and in making continued efforts to achieve the great renewal of the chinese nation,” a confi­dent Xi said in nationally tele­vised remarks in the great hall of the people. 
he later said “we are not complacent, and we will never rest on our laurels” in con­fronting challenges — corrup­tion chief among them. 
by his side stood the six other newly appointed mem­bers of the politburo standing committee: li Keqiang, the presumptive premier and chief economic official; vice premier Zhang dejiang; shanghai party secretary yu Zhengsheng; pro­paganda chief liu yunshan; Tianjin party secretary Zhang gaoli; and vice premier wang Qishan, once the leader­ship’s top troubleshooter who will head the party’s internal watchdog panel. 
Xi gave no hint of new think­ing to address the problems. The lack of specifics and the new leadership heavy with conservative technocrats de­flated expectations for change in some quarters. 
“we should be expecting more of the same, not some fundamental break from the past,” said dali yang of the university of chicago. 
Fundamental for the leader­ship is to maintain the party’s rule, he said. “They are not in­terested in introducing china’s gorbachev” — the soviet lead­er whose reforms hastened the end of the soviet union — yang said. 

many of the challenges Xi confronts are legacies of his predecessor, hu Jintao. in ad­dition to relinquishing his role as party chief, having reached the two-term maximum, hu also stepped down from the party commission that over­sees the military. The move is a break from the past in which exiting party leaders kept hold of the military portfolio for several years. 
during hu’s 10 years in of­fice, policies to open up china to trade and foreign investment begun by his predecessors gathered momentum, turning china into a manufacturing powerhouse and drawing tens of millions of rural migrants into cities. easy credit fueled a building boom, the beijing olympics and the world’s lon­gest high-speed rail network. at the same time, hu relied on an ever-larger security appara­tus to suppress protests, even as demonstrations continued to rise. 



Software founder on the run from Belize police 
Associated Press 
san pedro, belize — software company founder John mcafee said wednesday he is in hiding, unarmed and accompanied only by a young woman, changing locations and telephones frequently to stay one step ahead of a belize police unit he says wants to kill him. 
belize police have said they want to question mcafee, who they describe as a “person of interest” in the slaying of fel­low american gregory viant Faull. Faull, 52, was shot to death over the weekend on the caribbean island where both men lived. 
prime minister dean barrow said mcafee was only wanted for questioning and should report to authorities. 
barrow also expressed doubts about mcafee’s men­tal state: “i don’t want to be unkind to the gentleman, but i believe he is extremely para­noid, even bonkers.” 
mcafee, 67, who had a run-in with police earlier this year, told The associated press in a telephone interview from an undisclosed location that he didn’t kill Faull, though he acknowledged he had differ­ences with the dead man. 
“i barely knew him, i bare­ly spoke ten words to him in the last three years,” mcafee said, speaking on a cellphone. “certainly he was not my fa­vorite person and i was not his.” 
“he was a heavy drinker and an annoyance. but the world is full of annoyances; if we killed all of our annoy­ances, there would be nobody left,” mcafee said. 
other expat residents of the island of ambergris caye, where san pedro is located, have described Faull, the owner of a construction busi­ness in orlando, Florida, as peaceful and well-liked. 

The dispute apparently involved several dogs that mcafee kept at his beach-side villa and that drew complaints from neighbors. mcafee said that four of his dogs were poisoned late last week, but that he didn’t ini­tially suspect Faull of having killed them, though he knew Faull didn’t like the dogs. 
“he did threaten to shoot them once or twice,” mcafee said of Faull, adding that his neighbor was “always angry at them.” 
but he said he now believes government agents or police poisoned the dogs. 
“my assumption was it was some kind of government action again. This is more harassment - that was the first thing that went through my mind, and still is going through my mind. what else could it have been?” he said. 
Faull was found with a gunshot wound to his head inside his two-story home north of san pedro. The housekeeper discovered the body sunday morning and called police. 
raphael martinez, spokesman for belize’s ministry of national security, said no charges had been filed in the case, but urged mcafee to turn himself in, accompa­nied by someone else, if he felt safer that way. 

recession hits eurozone for first time in three years 
Associated Press 
london — The 17-country eurozone has fallen back into recession for the first time in three years as the fallout from the region’s financial crisis was felt from amsterdam to athens. 
and with surveys pointing to increasingly depressed con­ditions across the 17-member group at a time of austerity and high unemployment, the reces­sion is forecast to deepen, and make the debt crisis — which has been calmer of late — even 
paid adverTisemenT 
more difficult to handle. 

official figures Thursday showed that the eurozone con­tracted by 0.1 percent in the July to september period from the quarter before as econo­mies including germany and the netherlands suffer from falling demand. 
The decline reported by eurostat, the eu’s statistics of­fice, was in line with market ex­pectations and follows on from the 0.2 percent fall recorded in the second quarter. as a result, the eurozone is technically in recession, commonly defined as two straight quarters of fall­ing output. 
The eurozone economy shrank at annual rate of 0.2 percent during the July­september quarter, accord­ing to calculations by capital economics. 
“The eurozone economy will continue its decline in Q4 and probably well into 2013 too — a good backdrop for another debt crisis,” said michael Taylor, an economist at lombard street research. 
because of the eurozone’s grueling three-year debt cri­sis, the region has been the major focus of concern for the world economy. The eurozone economy is worth around €9.5 trillion, or $12.1 trillion, which puts it on a par with the u.s.. The region, with its 332 million people, is the u.s.’s largest ex­port customer, and any fall-off in demand will hit order books. 
while the u.s has managed to bounce back from its own recession in 2008-09, albeit inconsistently, and china con­tinues to post strong growth, europe’s economies have been on a downward spiral — and there is little sign of any im­provement in the near-term. last week, the european union’s executive arm forecast the eurozone’s economy would shrink 0.4 percent this year. Then only a meager 0.1 percent growth in 2013. 
The eurozone had avoided returning to recession since the financial crisis following the collapse of u.s. invest­ment bank lehman brothers, mainly thanks to the strength of its largest single economy, germany. 
but even that country is now struggling as exports drain in light of the economic problems afflicting large chunks of the eurozone. 
germany’s economy grew 
0.2 
percent in the third quar­ter, down from a 0.3 percent in­crease in the previous quarter. over the past year, germany’s annual growth rate has more than halved to 0.9 percent from 

1.9
percent. 


germany’s chancellor, angela merkel, tried to strike a positive note when she spoke to reporters in berlin Thursday. 
“i think we all are working on getting back on our feet again rapidly,” she said. 
“we see that economic growth is slowing, that over­all we have a small drop in the eurozone but i’m also very op­timistic that if we do our politi­cal homework ... we will again have growth after this small decline.” 
perhaps the most dramat­ic decline among the euro­zone’s members was seen in the netherlands, which has imposed strict austerity mea­sures. its economy shrank 
1.1 percent on the previous quarter. 
Five eurozone countries are in recession — greece, spain, italy, portugal and cyprus. Those five are also at the center of europe’s debt crisis and are imposing austerity measures, such as cuts to wages and pen­sions and increases to taxes, in an attempt to stay afloat. 



“bmw” sequel 

Bridget Feeny 
associate st. mary’s editor 

unless you’ve been living under a rock, you’re awaredisney is in the process of pro­ducing a “boymeetsworld” sequel called “girlmeetsworld.” The series would focus on cory and Topanga (still happily married) and their daughter,riley.cory has assumed a role exactly like that ofgeorge Feeny as he teaches seventh grade history. 
if you’re like me, you rejoiced when you first heard of the news.my younger self was thrilled asiimmediately thought back to the daysof Johnadamshigh anderic’sFeenycall. The show defined childhood for many of us. however, once you get past the initial excite­ment, you might have realized just how poor of a decision it is to give it a sequel.don’t get me wrong —ilove “bmw.”arguably, it is one of the greatest television shows our generation will ever know. Fromcory andshawn’s un­shakable friendship tomr. Feeny’s sage advice tocory and Topanga’s iconic love story, that show is one of my favorites. The series finale in Feeny’s classroom still makes me cry.it serves as a reminder that before the days ofsnooki, Kim Kardashian or the realhousewives of orangecounty, television could actually con­tain some substance. “bmw” is entertaining yet also educational; comical yet also moving. it showed me the importance of responsibility and loyalty and also the love and forgiveness of the people in your life. The show even tack­led issues darker than anxiety about college or long-distance relationships when the charac­ters confronted issues of under-age drinking, domestic violence and sex. 
how many shows did you watch as a kid and if you watched them now, you would enjoy just as much as you did back then?not many. That’s because “bmw” is a classic.and that is exactly why it needs to be left alone. 
classics are praised because they are one­of-a-kind. They’re on a whole other level.you just don’t touch classics.iwill admit certain remakes and sequels of movies and television shows can be successful, even enjoyable.but ijust don’t think this sequel can be done right. despite my love and adoration of all things disney,irealize thedisney channel today is not the same as it was in the 90’s.even though michael Jacobs, the creator and executive pro­ducer of “bmw,” is rumored to be on board for this sequel and is supposedly spear-heading the new series,iam still weary.while some of the original cast is probably back for this show,idoubt it will ever amount to the same level of entertainment and timelessness that is“bmw.” 
admittedly, if and when the sequel airs,i will watch it.iwill try to give it a fair chance, andiadmit there is a small possibility the sequel will actually be worthwhile.ialmost hopeiam wrong, and that this new series turns out to be a genius move on the parts of disney and Jacobs.but for now,iwill remem­ber “bmw” for what it is: a treasured part of childhood. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 

Thanksgiving is just around the corner, bringing with it the requisite Thursday night feasts and the subsequent food-induced naps. 
For students scrambling to keep up with hectic end-of­semester schedules, Thanksgiving break provides a wel­come respite from the constant hustle and bustle of life at notre dame: a time to sleep, eat and catch up on missed episodes of favorite Tv shows. 
but Thanksgiving holds significance beyond its con­sistent ability to induce food comas and remedy our per­petual sleep deprivation. The very word “thanksgiving” encourages us to actively express gratitude for the bless­ings we’ve been granted, but the importance of that action is often overshadowed by grandma’s delicious pumpkin pie. Though americans have a tendency to commercialize holidays, Thanksgiving actually retains its traditional fo­cus on uniting friends and family through a shared meal and quality time together. whether you catch a plane home Tuesday night or stay on campus during break, chances are you won’t be celebrating Thanksgiving with­out some semblance of family surrounding you. 
That essential emphasis on family is important enough to warrant days off work and school to allow people to spend time with their relatives and be grateful for their presence in each other’s lives. and beyond our individual family trees, we as notre dame students have another family to be grateful for this Thanksgiving. despite its frequent, often clichéd overuse in domer-to-domer con­versations, the tight-knit “notre dame family” has a real, tangible influence on nearly every aspect of our lives whether we recognize it or not. 
we can thank the academics of the family, our profes­sors, for challenging us to think outside the box, to work to our full potential, to expand our learning beyond the classroom and into the local, national and global communities. 
we can thank our peers for living with us, for studying with us, for having fun with us, for supporting us through the ups and downs of the four-year rollercoaster ride that is college. 
we can thank our rectors and campus religious fig­ures for providing spiritual guidance and moral support whenever we need it most. we can thank the people like the maintenance and cleaning staff that make the daily operations of this campus possible. 
we can thank various branches of the university for giving us countless opportunities to become global citi­zens and expand our experience beyond the notre dame bubble through study and service abroad. 
we can thank this year’s football team for uniting the student body and the worldwide irish fan base behind an undefeated team with hopes of restoring the university to the gridiron glory of lore. 
Through these and other avenues, the multifaceted in­fluence of the biggest of irish families encourages us to prioritize people and relationships over grades and indi­vidual glory. Thanks to our notre dame education and experience, we are a community of highly motivated, extremely successful individuals who also happen to ap­proach all that we do with a compassionate spirit unique to past, current and future residents of this hallowed campus. 
and like any family, we have our flaws. we argue. we don’t get along perfectly all the time. but for all our whin­ing about parietals and papers, we know deep down why putting up with those challenges for eight fleeting semes­ters sets us apart from the crowd. 
manti Te’o, perhaps the most visible member of the notre dame community right now, summed it up best in a recent interview with fellow domer Kate sullivan. 
“notre dame isn’t a school, it’s a family.” 
when we leave this university, whether a semester or three years from now, we will leave as lifelong domers, knowing any member of the extended notre dame family will support us through thick and thin. 
so when you’re digging into your third slice of pump­kin pie next Thursday, take time to be thankful for all the family members who couldn’t fit at your table, but would give anything to be there with you anyway. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“if more of us valued food and cheer and song above hoarded gold, it would be a merrier world.” 
J.R.R. Tolkien English writer and philologist 
WEEKLY POLL 

what’s your favorite part of Thanksgiving? 
“Sleeping in my own bed!” @hanna_weasley 


The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Lackluster election for campus 
Molly Howell 
directionally challenged 

with the 2012 presidential election wrapped up and president obama in office for another four years, i found the campaign more dramatic and my first-time voting for president more anticlimactic than i ever imagined. 
i have to admit i did not follow politics at all until i turned 18. i was completely unaware of policies and candidates alike. however, when i turned 18 i realized i needed to pay attention because my vote now counted, and though one vote may not seem to make a difference, as was seen in this race, it can. one vote often does have a significant amount of power, and it is crucial that voters are informed. and so for the past year i have been following both parties’ candidates, reading and watching the news, trying to make sense of the biased mess that many networks broadcast. at first, i fell for president obama’s charisma and for mitt romney’s experience. i was politically inept and had a hard time looking past the public persona of the candidates. Then someone told me that i didn’t necessarily have to like my president, but i did have to trust him. Those words changed the game for me and gave me a new perspective while following the campaign. and, i have to be honest, i was pretty dis­gusted by the presidential campaign. collectively, the 2012 presidential election cost roughly $4 billion. That is an obscene amount of money spent in a country whose debt clock is set on fast forward. is that kind of money really what it takes to run for office? it’s discouraging to think so and it limits who is able to run for office in this country, this country that we like to think of as the land of opportunity. also, for the presidential election, each campaign turned into a race to make the other candidate look as bad as possible to the american people. as someone who dislikes conflict, it was nearly physically painful for me to watch the debates. The passive aggressive and sometimes outright boorish behavior displayed by the presidential and vice presidential candidates was uncomfortable, un­professional, and unlikable. 
Though the campaign wore on me, i still held onto some hope for election day and my excitement to vote. voting, though a citizen’s right, is also a privilege that not every­one in our country has always had. however, even this monumental milestone was ruined for me as, like most college students, i had to vote absentee. absentee voting is the most unexciting form of voting that ex­ists. it’s a pain, deterring the busy, or lazy, college student from making it to the polls at all. nonetheless, i full-heartedly believe that it’s incredibly important to vote, and i hope stu­dents from battleground states such as ohio and Florida did vote. 
while some cities and states across the country were in full campaign and election mode, there was little to no visibility of election day’s near arrival on campus. if someone vis­ited campus who knew nothing of american politics or the upcoming presidential election, the notre dame campus would do nothing to inform them. even on election day, there was barely any mention of this land­mark national event. This lack of dis­cussion and attention cannot just be due to the fact that no one was wear­ing the “i voted” sticker on november 6th; rather, politics just don’t seem to be on most notre dame students’ agendas. and this is not only true of most students, but also, in my experience, sometimes the case with faculty and staff on campus. i was surprised that there was such little discussion in the classroom surrounding both the campaign and election. overall, i found notre dame’s lack of attention shocking due to the fact that this election was the majority of the student body’s first time voting in a presidential race. 
The 2012 presidential election was a huge national event for the majority of the united states. The campaign and outcome have huge consequences for our country and it is vital to give it some attention. it is exactly because this election was so costly and ugly that we cannot afford to tune out and ignore it. Few current notre dame students will be on cam­pus for the next presidential election, but i hope that wherever they are they pay attention and invoke dis­cussion because young adults have a duty to be to aware, to engage, and to participate because, sooner rather than later, who is in office will be directly affecting us. 
Molly Howell is a freshman Anthropology and International Economics major, as well as a Gender Studies minor. She can be reached at mhowell5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Campaign finance 
Brian Kaneb 
guest columnist 

campaign finance reform has long been a con­troversial issue, but its impact on elections has be­come increasingly clear in recent years. supporters of the two major presidential candidates were set to spend at least 76 percent more in 2012 than in 2008. whereas it was once an impressive feat for the campaigns to get their hands on $1 billion just four years ago, Fec reports indicate they are bound to break the $2 billion barrier this time around. 
president obama even used his 2010 state of the union address to scold the supreme court Justices for their role in citizens united. all this points to the need for the government to reign in what is commonly called ‘outside spending,’ and more specifically ‘super pacs.’ The citizens united deci­sion allowed these groups to use unlimited funds to push for political causes, provided they do not coordinate with the actual candidates in the race. 
of course campaign finance reform is a politi­cally charged subject, so some may be suspicious of the motives behind my conclusion. republicans, for example, probably find it nearly instinctive to oppose more stringent campaign finance regula­tions. This makes sense considering conservative super pacs outspent liberal super pacs by an im­pressive $269 million during the past two elections cycles. while this may appear to give republicans an advantage on the surface, in reality they would benefit from outside spending losing much of its influence over elections. The republican party took the country by storm during the 2010 midterm election, but it learned that a hands-off approach to campaign finance cannot guarantee victory. The influx of outside spending was unable to either gain them a majority in the senate or win them the presidency. 
Though there are countless reasons behind the party’s failure this past week, the lack of cohe­siveness amongst conservatives certainly did not help. conservative super pacs deserve much of the blame for this. Their omnipresent role in the election — it was tough to turn on the Tv without seeing negative ads this past month — only served to associate them with mitt romney and the other republicans in the eyes of the average voter. it is thus no surprise when Karl rove, whose group american crossroads raised more than $100 mil­lion for republicans in 2012, comes across as the unofficial spokesman of the party. This is not nec­essarily an issue — rove has won elections before 
— but it does become a problem when others want similar roles. 
after all, what happens when dozens of power­ful individuals form superpacs? They make use of different strategies because each one believes his/ her approach will be remembered by history for winning the elections. This left voters confused about the direction of the republican party when they went to the polls, and certainly played a roll in gop’s loss. 
republicans were uncharacteristically decen­tralized this past election cycle, and should realize that even outside spending has a tipping point. 
Brian Kaneb is a junior studying political science. He can be reached at bkaneb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By SAM STRYKER 
assistant managing editor 

being a female pop star today entails more than just singing. in fact, on the list of requirements to make it big on the music scene, the ability to sing ranks pretty low on necessary traits. higher on the list includes cultivat­ing a certain persona or act, collaborating with the hot­test producers and maintaining a certain degree of fame (or infamy). 
This formula of sorts has been followed to a “t” by american songstress lana del rey, whose latest ep, “paradise,” was released nov. 13. “paradise” continues the development of del rey as both a singer and an artist following the release of her debut studio album “born to die” in January. Featuring just eight songs, “paradise” fits in with del rey’s act while also being more tightly pro­duced and efficient than “born to die”. 
del rey’s music is based not so much in her talent (which she does have) as it is in her persona. born lizzy grant, del rey took several stage names before settling on her current title. The singer describes her image best as a “self-styled gangsta nancy sinatra” or “lolita lost in the hood”. either are bizarre descriptions, but they are fitting: del rey takes cinematic music that harkens back to the 1960s and gives it a modern twist. it’s high-concept stuff and it sounds better in theory than it does on an album. 
del rey has crafted a persona to live up to, and her pro­gression as a singer-songwriter is as much about crafting better music as it is crafting music that better fits into and pushes her role. with such a challenging character to portray, it’s only natural to think it is going to take time for del rey to get “better” at playing it. and in “paradise,” she does. 
The first track, “ride,” might be del rey’s best song ever. it is sweeping and grandiose and has a remark­able way of being multi-faceted, a departure from many of del rey’s glum one-dimensional songs. additionally, “ride” isn’t bogged down by some of ultra-melancholy themes that can be repetitive in del rey’s work. instead, the track, produced by rick rubin, is catchy without be­ing generic, extravagant without being pretentious. be sure to check the song’s mini-film (it’s hard to call it a music video when it’s longer than 10 minutes.) it’s trashy, kitschy and american in the best (and worst) way pos­sible, but also highlights one of del rey’s weaknesses: sometimes, it seems like she is trying too hard and is be­ing controversial for controversy’s sake. 
This notion of trying too hard serves as a perfect segue to the second single off the album, “cola.”. shockingly enough, the song is not about the drink but how del rey claims her boyfriend describes a certain one of her body parts. The song itself is catchy and fluid, but when com­bined with her playing a prostitute in the “ride” music video and describing her act as lolita-like, it sometimes seems like del rey is being a lightning rod of controversy so people will listen to her music out of shock or curiosity, rather than because of her talent. 

it’s a bit of a shame, because listening to “paradise,” it is readily apparent del rey has the vocals that so many female singers are lacking. normally, pop stars use an “image” or “act” to cover up vocal deficiencies, but in del rey’s case, her persona can tend to mask or hide her true talent. listening to “paradise,” it is readily apparent that her voice caresses and plays with the lyrics in a beautiful, gentle way, especially on “american” and “body electric”. del rey has also done a good job of singing about more diverse themes than her typical “sadcore” sound. her signature melancholy sound achieves new dimensions in the spritely “blue velvet” and the aforementioned “ride” and thus her music is a more enjoyable listen. 
overall, “paradise” is a solid effort from del rey and a nice collection of songs — a step in the right direction, if you will. del rey’s next move as an artist is to discov­er a balance between “lana del rey” and her music. it couldn’t hurt to further develop the themes and emo­tions behind her music. The talent is there, now she just needs to highlight it better. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
“Paradise” 

Lana Del Rey 
Label: Interscope Tracks: “Ride,” “Blue Velvet,” “American” If you like: Marina & the Diamonds, Ellie Goulding 


By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
scene writer 

if you attend mass in Knott hall on sunday nights, you might be able to catch junior music major michael Thompson playing bass for the dorm’s choir. he’s a tenor in the glee club, bassist for the pasquerilla music company and notre dame’s symphony orchestra and plans to attend graduate school for music theory. he said it all started with a song he heard by led Zeppelin in high school. 
“i heard ‘black dog’ by led Zeppelin,” he said. “and after hearing that, i thought, ‘i want to do that.’” 
Thompson has played ever since. 
“i practiced a lot,” he said. “when i came to notre dame, i was originally planning on doing economics, but i was also planning on the music track as well. but by the end of that year, i just liked my music home­work so much more than my economics work so i just stuck with that instead. i don’t regret it at all. i enjoy being a music major.” 
he studies with prof. darrel Tidaback, notre dame’s bass professor. 
“darrel Tidaback is a jazz guy. he is probably one of the only solidly jazz guys here,” he said. “i worked with him last summer doing some research with him at the university of chicago on altered dominant SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 
chords.” 

dominant chords are built on the fifth scale degree of the diatonic scale. 
“When I came to Notre Dame, I was originally planning on doing economics, but I was also planning on the music track as well. But by the end of that year, I just liked my music homework so much more than my economics work so I just stuck with that instead. I don’t regret it at all.” 
Michael Thomspon 
junior 

“a dominant chord is the chord that pulls back to the tonic chord. To alter a dominant chord, you take the fifth and raise it slightly by a half-step,” he said. “it makes it a bit more tense.” 
Thompson said he wanted to know more about the altered dominant chords he heard in jazz and earlier variations found in composers like chopin. 
“i was looking at chopin’s use of [altered dominant chords], and i got the idea from looking at some jazz stuff with darrel,” he said. 
“it’s a longer process than i was able to cover. i’m planning on building a timeline of the fully altered dominant chord. The fully altered dominant chord has four alterations to it. hopefully next summer i can look at some later music to see how the other al­terations piled in.” 
between glee club and the orchestra, Thompson studies schenkerian analysis. 
“it’s is a way to analyze different tonal composi­tions. it’s kind of necessary to know if you want to go to grad school for music,” he said. 
Thompson said he is considering the university of chicago for music theory. 
“i’d like to continue my quest to find the origins of the altered dominant chord,” he said. “but i’m going to try looking into schools who have glee clubs. i get a joy from playing [and] listening that i just can’t get from really any other study or thing to do. i just really enjoy music. i can’t really give a better answer than that,” he said. “it puts a smile on my face.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 

The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Jes Christian 
scene writer 

we all have those days. we sit with our laptops open in front of us and our books sprawled out aim­lessly across our desks. we write the headings for our seven-page papers and then reward ourselves with hour-long Facebook, Twitter and instagram perusing extravaganzas. some refer to this phenomenon as the nightmare of procrastination: an unavoidable disease that infects many a college student, many a day or night, inhibiting them from reaching their full potential of aca­demic productivity. i, on the other hand, like to refer to this sort of behavior as normal and necessary. here at notre dame, as well as at other top-level colleges and uni­versities worldwide, students know what it means to work hard. we stay up late and wake up early. most of us participate in a series of extra­curricular activities, where we act as leaders, learners, pioneers and problem solvers. no matter how unlikely it may seem, at the end of the day, the seven-page paper, the extensive lab report, the business presentation, the acting mono­logue, and the musical composition are all miraculously done. This, my friends, is the art of the being a col­lege student. like coffee and Taco bell, starbucks and au bon pain, methods of procrastination are just ways to keep us up and working. 
so why have i written this long paragraph about the necessity of procrastination when this is a fash­ion column and you’re most likely interested in fashion? well because if you’re anything like me, then you’re tired of always resorting to the common social media websites to temporarily free you from your studies. you’re looking for some­thing new and exciting that will spark your attention and will keep you up and wanting more. you’re looking for websites that are fun, fashionable and procrastinator-friendly, and you’ve come to the right place. i’ve scoured the web to find some of the most fun and inter­esting fashion sites in all the land. 
check them out, and don’t forget to do your homework too!. STEALHERSTYLE.NET 

do you ever find yourself wonder­ing where the heck celebrities get certain pieces in their wardrobes? i wonder the same thing, and for many years i would either keep an eye out for similar pieces when i hit the mall, or i would simply call it a lost cause. This all changed, how­ever, when i stumbled upon a little website called stealherstyle.net. 
The website takes stylish photos of a-list celebrities and breaks down each element from their looks, de­tailing both the price of each item and the store from which each item originated. 
Feeling a little more edgy? The site also profiles different celeb hairstyles and tattoos, so if you’re interested in changing up you’re look or simply looking – then check it out for some of the best secrets for celebrity style. 
LOOKBOOK.NU 

if you’re interested in fashion, photography, business, or blogging, then lookbook.nu is the website for you. lb is, in layman’s terms, one huge fashion photo blogging data­base. like any other social media website, on lb users can create an account and connect with other individuals worldwide. The site attracts people from all walks of the fashion world and encourages them to take photos of interesting looks that they find or create.  as a result, they develop an online col­lection of their own looks to share with the rest of the world. so what’s the catch? well, lb prides itself on exposing the world to high-quality imagery from the most passionate fashion-goers. Therefore, if you’re interested in taking photos for your own account, then your photos can only be taken with a high-quality camera. additionally, the site only allows for one photo upload every few hours. The rules seem a little annoying upon first consideration, but the result is a crazy cool website with some of the edgiest looks from all over the world.  plus, because of the website’s high quality, top brand names like american apparel, h&m, and dr. marten’s have teamed up with lb to allow blog­gers to come up with styles for the brands clothes. not interested in taking photos? That’s cool! creating an account is easy, uploading pho­tos is optional, and you gain the ability to “hype” your favorite looks, “fan” your favorite lookbookers. you can then refer back to your choices whenever you need some fashion inspiration! iphone, ipod and ipad app available. WEHEARTIT.COM 
are you one to scroll through pictures on iinstagram only to find yourself thoroughly disappointed when you come across pictures that you’ve already seen? well get ready for the procrastination goldmine. weheartit.com is a never-ending database of photos of all types. want a little bit of everything? go to the site’s home page and scroll away. every day users all over the world post thousands of new photos so you’ll never get bored. 
or, if you’re interested in finding something more specific, type a word or phrase into the search box and you’ll find an endless number of results matching your request. like lookbook, if you’re interested in keeping track of photos that you like or posting your own, then signing up for an account is easy and free. in minutes, you’ll have infinite “hearting” privileges, and like “hyping” or “liking” you’ll be able to spread the fashion love while also storing images that inspire you. iphone, ipod and ipad app available. 
Contact  Jes Christian at jchrist7@nd.edu 

The views in this column are those of the author and not  neces­sarily  those of The Observer. 

By MADDIE DALY 
scene writer 

as their first Fall concert of the year approaches, members of notre dame’s glee club stay calm, cool and collected, as usual.  Through all their intense rehearsals and spontane­ous performances around campus, these guys never lose their smiles and excitement. 
brian scully, this year’s glee club treasurer, described the club’s hectic schedule. 
“glee club is entering one of its busiest seasons right now,” scully said. “our fall concert this Friday is only one in a long list of events for us.  in the last week alone we’ve also sung for the residents of holy cross village, at a wedding in the basilica, at baraka bouts, and had a master class with the King’s singers, a world-renowned men’s chorus.” 
in addition, christmas is right around the corner, mean­ing nonstop christmas caroling around campus for the glee club. 
although this sounds like a strenuous schedule, club pres­ident John Kemnetz stressed the positivity of the club. 
“usually the intensity level goes way up in our rehearsals leading up to a concert,” Kemnetz said.  “Focus is important and oftentimes our rehearsals will run longer, but we don’t mind. we love to sing for crowds at notre dame and have fun doing so — we’re less about stress and anxiety and more about having a good time and making sure our audience does the same.” 
even when not preparing for a specific concert, the glee club has a demanding rehearsal schedule, but according to scully they love this time spent together. 
“glee club has rehearsal monday through Thursday for about an hour and 15 minutes,” scully said.  “we also have some added open rehearsals on the Fridays of game week­ends.  glee club definitely keeps you busy, but it’s time spent doing something you love with one of the tightest and most caring social groups on campus. it’s hard to beat that.” 
This Friday’s fall concert is structured around various genres of music and features songs from the club’s new album. 
“our concerts are usually separated into two halves —– what we like to call the ‘serious half’, during which we per­form more classical, liturgical, and modern choral music, and the ‘fun half’, during which we get to sing some more light stuff including african american spirituals, folk songs, and barbershop numbers,” Kemnetz said.  “one unique fea­ture of this concert is that many of the pieces we will per­form are a part of our newest album, Rocky Road to Dublin, released in august.  music themes range from the horrors of war to marian devotion to drunken revelry, so there’s really something for all of us to relate to.” 
as Friday draws closer and closer, glee club sophomore Joey copp expresses nothing but positivity and excitement. 
“i expect a really good show, we’ve all put in a lot of hard work, especially [our director] dan [stowe], and i expect a great audience,” copp said.  “we’ve sold out the main house and we think it’ll be a real treat for everyone who can make it.” 
Kemnetz keeps up the same enthusiasm, urging students to come even if just to see what the hype is all about. 
“we’re notre dame’s oldest and most well known choir, but more than that we present music that is accessible and fun to listen to,” Kemnetz said.  “if you’re a notre dame stu­dent who has never been to a choral concert at notre dame, then this is the concert you won’t want to miss.” 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 

KEEP 
CALM 
AND 
STYLE ON 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

marlins fans betrayed by trade 

Matthew DeFranks 
associate sports editor 
it was april 4, the open­ing day of the major league baseball season, and the sta­dium was full. That is usually a normal occurrence. 
but this? This was in miami, where lebron James’ welcome party garnered more attention than both Florida marlins world series runs. This was where attendance was always putrid whether or not the team was good. 
miami had just made a run at superstar albert pujols and acquired Jose reyes, mark buehrle, heath bell and ozzie guillen. so it was april 4, miami was playing st. louis and marlins park was jammed with people, hope and big salaries. 
but that now seems much further away than the seven months it is. 
with midseason we-give­up trades and postseason giveaways that would make the south bend silverhawks jealous, the marlins have sig­naled loud and clear that the party is over. 
They traded away star third basemen hanley ramirez during the season. The pirates acquired hometown boy gaby sanchez. omar infante and anibal sanchez won an american league title with the Tigers. 
most recently, miami agreed to trade reyes, peren­nial ace Josh Johnson, lefty mark beuhrle, utility man emilio bonifacio and un­derachieving catcher John buck to Toronto for nothing 
— now, at least. The pros­pects involved in the deal are supposed to be great in the future but for marlins fans, they’ve heard the same thing too much before. 
after the marlins won the title in 1997, the entire team was gutted. after the marlins won again in 2003, they let ivan “pudge” rodriguez walk away following just one sea­son in the teal and black. 
now, what was supposed to be the start of something new and exciting now sounds old and familiarly painful. all the stars that wore the orange and black a year ago are now somewhere in another galaxy, lighting up someone else’s world. 
Jeffrey loria has been the best businessman he can be. The rich art dealer set up a good business model years ago to lower costs and gener­ate revenue in order to maxi­mize profit. sounds great, right? 
except that his model has no place in sports, where the fans want the best product on the field and not on the bot­tom line. 
his spending spree last off­season carried multiple back-loaded contracts so that his trading spree this offseason wouldn’t hurt as much — or wouldn’t have as many suck costs, really. his money binge in the winter also generated buzz and interest around the league and the nation. let’s put those expenses under marketing and not as salaries. 
his cheap spending and his slimy deals have left a bad taste in all marlins fans’ mouths. They are stuck foot­ing the bill for a new, expen­sive, shiny stadium while a minor league team languish­es inside. The 2013 marlins that loria and the rest of his front office have built simply do not deserve to play in a beautiful, publicly-funded park. 
it’s like drinking natty light from a champagne flute or like putting unleaded gas inside a bentley. something doesn’t add up. 
The marlins are the same franchise they always were, but now they’re a different team. if you need further proof, check the box score from that opening day. 
reyes, bonifacio, ramirez, sanchez, infante, buck and Johnson all started that day on a team managed by guillen. gone, gone, gone, gone, gone, gone, gone and gone. The only remaining opening day starters are giancarlo stanton and logan morrison. 
This trade has irritated the marlins fan base and will make it nearly impossible to win the miami market back. and that’s precisely why bud selig is deciding whether to approve this deal. 
even if selig denies the trade, the message has been sent loud and clear — the real marlins are back. The marlins put on a mask last winter that they shed as easily as they did all their talent. 
now, they are just fish out of water with no team, no fans, no common sense and no dignity. 
The clevelander in left field will stop bumping. The home run atrocity in the center field will cease to move. The fans in right field will be gone. 
not that the marlins care anyways. 
Contact Matthew Defranks at mdefrank@nd.edu.
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Selig reviews blockbuster deal between Marlins, Jays 

Associated Press 

rosemonT, ill. — bud selig was on hand when the miami marlins played their first regular-season game in their swanky new ballpark in april. The commissioner provided a glowing review of the $634 million project and boldly de­clared that opposition to the facility would fade away within five years. 
so far, it’s not looking so good for that last prediction. 
selig said Thursday he is ex­amining the pending block­buster trade that sends at least three of miami’s best players to Toronto for a package of pros­pects just seven months after the marlins moved into their new home, which was financed primarily with tax money. 
speaking at the conclusion of the owners’ meetings, selig said he also is aware of fan an­ger in south Florida but is going to do what’s in the best interests of the sport. 
“people have different views of that as to what you should do and how you should do it, but i think i’ve been able to come through all these situ­ations and the sport’s been stronger and better as a re­sult,” he said, pointing to his 

FOR SALE 

2 Bedroom 1 Bath home. 1.5 miles from campus. Off SR23 on Ponsha. Priced mid 80’s. john1552@att.net 
WANTED 

PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt earnparttime.com 
recent experience with the Texas rangers and los angeles dodgers going through bank­ruptcy proceedings. 
“so when i say i have this matter under review and i’ve talked to a lot of our people and i’ve spent a lot of time here in between all the other meetings — this is a tough place to do it — that’s exactly what i mean. it is under review. i am aware of the anger, i am. i’m also aware that in Toronto they’re very happy.” 
The blue Jays, who finished fourth in the loaded al east last season, are bringing in all-star shortstop Jose reyes, left-hand­er mark buehrle and right-hander Josh Johnson under the deal, which is contingent on physicals for the players. selig also said there is money going from miami to Toronto, but did not offer any details and said the trade hadn’t been officially presented to his office yet. 
reyes and buehrle signed lucrative free-agent contracts with the marlins last offseason, and Johnson has been miami’s best pitcher when healthy. 
The marlins get infield­ers yunel escobar and adeiny hechavarria, right-hander henderson alvarez and several top prospects, a nice haul but certainly not enough to satisfy a fan base that went through similar rebuilding after the franchise won the world series in 1997 and 2003. 
“i’ve talked to two baseball people — i have a lot of people that i check with and talk to 
— who have, actually, an inter­esting view on the trade.” selig said at an airport hotel just out­side of chicago. “They think that (miami), in terms of young players, did very well. These are two independent baseball peo­ple. These are not chefs in these kitchens here. 
“so i want to think about all of it and i want to review ev­erything. i want to be my usual painstaking, cautious, slow, conservative self in analyzing it. ... There’s a lot of variables here.” 
paul beeston, the presi­dent and ceo of the blue Jays, rushed by a group of reporters as he left the owners’ meetings. marlins owner Jeffrey loria was seen in the lobby at the hotel but did not make himself available to media. 
loria went on a spending spree last offseason, also sign­ing free-agent closer heath bell. The marlins thought they would contend for the nl east title and draw 3 million fans in the first year of their ballpark. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Yogi Berra Quotes 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? “I always thought that record would Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has stand until it was broken.” many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs “Baseball is ninety percent mental. confidential support or assistance, The other half is physical.” please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more “Little League baseball is a very good information, visit ND’s website at: thing because it keeps the parents off http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu the streets.” 


MLB 

Cabrera and Posey claim MVP honors 
Associated Press 
new yorK — miguel cabrera has a most valuable player award to go with his Triple crown. and buster posey has an mvp prize to put alongside his second world series ring. 
The pair of batting champions won baseball’s top individual hon­ors Thursday by large margins. 
cabrera, the first Triple crown winner in 45 years, won the al mvp by receiving 22 of 28 first-place votes and 362 points from a panel of baseball writers’ association of america. 
The detroit third baseman eas­ily beat los angeles angels rookie center fielder mike Trout, who had six firsts and 281 points. 
cabrera hit .330 with 44 hom­ers and 139 rbis to become the first Triple crown winner since boston’s carl yastrzemski in 1967. cabrera also led the league with a .606 slugging percentage for the al champion Tigers. 
some of the more sabermetric­focused fans supported Trout, who hit .326 with 30 homers and 83 rbis, and he led the majors with 129 runs and 49 steals and topped all players in war — wins above replacement. Trout won al rookie of the year earlier in the week. 
“i was a little concerned. i thought the new thing about com­puter stuff, i thought Trout’s going to win because they put his num­bers over me,” cabrera said. “i was like relax. ... if he wins, it’s going to be fair because he had a great season.” 
his victory is a win for the tradi­tional statistics. 
“at the end of the game, it’s go­ing to be the same baseball played back in the day,” cabrera said. 
posey, at a charity event at his mother’s school in leesburg, va., followed the al debate and googled to find out the winner. 
“i think it intrigued everybody,” he said. “as a fan of the game, it was a fun race to watch.” 
with three fewer hits or two less homers, cabrera would have fallen short of the Triple crown. The last four Triple crown winners have been voted mvp, including mickey mantle in 1956 and Frank robinson in 1966. 
“i think winning the Triple crown had a lot to do with me winning this honor,” he said. 
cabrera became the second straight detroit player voted mvp, following pitcher Justin verlander in 2011, and was the first venezuelan to earn the honor. countryman pablo sandoval took home world series mvp honors last month. 

before the season, cabrera switched from first base to third to make way for prince Fielder, who signed with detroit as a free agent. 
“i focused too much in spring training about defense, defense, defense,” cabrera said. “i forgot a little bit about hitting, about get­ting in the cage like i normally do.” 
in spring training, posey’s focus was just to get back on the field. his 2011 season was cut short by a collision with the marlins’ scott cousins on may 25 that resulted in a fractured bone in posey’s lower left leg and three torn ankle ligaments. 
posey not only returned, he be­came the first catcher in 70 years to win the nl batting title and helped san Francisco win its sec­ond world series championship in three seasons. 
“i definitely have a deeper ap­preciation for being able to play baseball,” he said. “i’ve seen that it can be taken away quick.” 
The first catcher in four de­cades to win the nl award, posey got 27 of 32 firsts and 422 points 
paid adverTisemenT 


to outdistance 2011 winner ryan braun of milwaukee, who was sec­ond with 285 points. 
pittsburgh outfielder andrew mccutchen (245) was third, fol­lowed by st. louis catcher yadier molina (241). 
posey, a boyish-looking 25, was the 2010 nl rookie of the year as the giants won their first world series since 1954. This year he set career highs with a .336 average, 24 homers and 103 rbis as san Francisco won again. 
posey took the nl batting title after teammate melky cabrera requested a rules change that dis­qualified him. cabrera, who hit .346, missed the final 45 games of the regular-season while serving a suspension for a positive testoster­one test and would have won the batting crown if the rule hadn’t been changed. 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish set to open playoffs against USF 

By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
playoff season has arrived, as the irish will face off against south Florida this weekend in the opening round of the big east tournament. 
no. 3 notre dame (20-7, 13-2 big east) is looking to regain its winning ways over the no. 6 bulls (16-13, 7-8 big east) after having its 11-match win streak snapped by marquette last weekend. This is notre dame’s first 20-win season since 2009, and junior middle blocker and captain andrea mchugh says that the team is still hungry for more. notre dame’s loss to the golden eagles caused the irish to tie with marquette for second place in the big east regular season standings, and that loss will serve as motivation to the squad as they begin tournament play. 

“our loss to [marquette] last weekend was disappoint­ing but has pushed us to work harder and stay focused for this weekend,” mchugh said. 
The irish and the bulls will be traveling to neutral host marquette this week­end. mchugh said that with a change in significance comes a change in player mentality. 
“now that we are into the tournament, we have to fo­cus on one team at a time and can’t look past anyone,” she said. “ultimately, this is what we have been working towards for the whole season, so we have to do our part and leave it all on the court in or­der to be successful.” 
although tournament play is beginning, irish coach debbie brown has continued to emphasize to the team that they should remember to have fun on the court. 
“[coach brown has used] one word: grateful,” mchugh said. “we are all so blessed to be able to represent notre dame in the game that we love playing, so remembering to enjoy the moment while be­ing grateful is something that is huge for us as a team.” 
The irish defeated the bulls in a three-set sweep on oct. 28th, and are looking for a similar outcome this time around. 
“usF has a very strong of-The winner of the matchup fense along with great pin hit-will go on to play the winner ters,” mchugh said. “during of no. 2 marquette and no. 7 practices this week, we have pittsburgh on sunday. been emphasizing our serv-The match gets under way at ing and passing game along 4:30 p.m. today in milwaukee. with having strong blocking moves so we can shut down Contact Laura Coletti at their hitters.” lcoletti@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

NBA 

d’antoni takes the reigns in la 
we have a window, and we’re 
Associated Press 

going to try to get through it.” el segundo, calif. — mike lakers general manager d’antoni circled the court 2 mitch Kupchak welcomed feet at a time, moving smooth-d’antoni after practice at a ly on crutches while his los news conference packed with angeles lakers went through dozens of media members. drills orchestrated by his assis-given his limited mobility, tant coach and brother, dan. d’antoni isn’t likely to make 
although d’antoni’s surgi-his sideline debut until sunday cally replaced knee is slowing night against houston, with in-him down a bit, he couldn’t terim coach bernie bickerstaff wait any longer to get the probably manning the bench lakers rolling. again Friday night against 
d’antoni formally took over phoenix. the lakers on Thursday, four “This is a great city to have an days after the slow-starting up-tempo, exciting game that club hired him to replace mike has a legitimate shot to win a brown. The former Knicks and championship,” d’antoni said. suns coach is still on crutches “i can’t ask for anything more.” and pain medication after sur-d’antoni’s affable charm gery earlier this month, but immediately worked on the thinks he’ll soon be back to lakers, who praised their normal while he attempts to new coach’s demeanor during transform the lakers into his their first few hours together. vision of an up-tempo, high-The coach acknowledged few scoring team. qualms about taking over the 
“i’m really happy to be here star-studded roster that got 
— excited,” d’antoni said. off to a 1-4 start to the season, “(we’re) starting to put stuff in speaking instead of the limit-now. might take a little bit, but less possibilities of the lakers’ ... we’re built to win this year. talent within his creative style This is not a five-year project. of coaching. 



ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish travel to Kansas 
squads get ready 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
The irish will compete in their first invitational of the season in Topeka, Kan., this Friday, saturday and sunday. 
The Jayhawks will be host­ing nebraska, iowa state, nebraska-omaha, and rice in addition to no. 18 notre dame at the Kansas women’s classic. 
although the team will be competing for three straight days, irish coach brian barnes said that his swimmers will get more rest than they would expect from a busy weekend of duel meets. 
“For the most part we’re swimming a limited number of events, two-a-day per per­son, which is six total events, and then there’s two open swim relays, too,” barnes said. “so we’re meeting the 
entry requirement.”  
The  irish  netted  another  
individual  accolade  Tuesday  
when  sophomore  emma  

reaney was named the big east women’s swimming and diving athlete of the week — the fourth time she has been recognized for the award. 
“well we’ve had two big east swimmers of the week the last two weeks, and both of them were well-deserved, Kim holden two weeks ago and then emma reaney this week,” barnes said. “They’ve both performed at a lev­el that is deserving of that recognition.” 

but barnes said he can’t rely on individual awards to assess how his team is progressing. 
“[when an] individual’s recognized, that’s just good for the individual, it has no indication of the direc­
“I would say the focus right now, in a bigger sense, is establishing our identity for the year ... Who are we? Every team’s different, and this team is not the same team we had last year.” 
Brian Barnes Irish coach 

tion we’re going team-wise,” barnes said. “it’s not bad to have those performances on the team — it’s always a good thing because they’re part of the team — but [as far as] the direction that we’re going on the team, you pick up on those things daily. The char­acter of the team in the face of adversity or the character of the team when they’re deal­ing with a hard practice or how they work with one an­other, how they support one another and who they are as teammates – that’s a better in­dication of the direction we’re going.” 
going into the meet, barnes 
paid adverTisemenT 

said that the team is working on polishing all aspects of 
for ncaa meet their events. but he also says that this is the time of year when teams begin to develop their character. 
“i would say the focus right now, in a bigger sense, is es­tablishing our identity for the year,” barnes said. “who are we? every team’s different, 

and this team is not the same team we had last year. First of all, we’ve graduated people, and we’ve added people. and things change in a year’s time. so we’re starting to see some good things across the board on our team and our identity but we’re not there yet, and that’s the beauty of a season. Those things take time to de-
JOHN KING | The Observer 

velop, and that’s what we’re 
Sophomore Jake Kildoo runs in the National Catholic Championship on 
working on.” 
Sept. 14. Notre Dame finished first in the field of 34 teams on its home  course. 
The three-day Kansas classic will begin at 10 a.m. 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 

Friday at the capital Federal 
sports writer 

natatorium in Topeka. a national title might be a long 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at shot, but the irish will be in the 
vjacobse@nd.edu running at the ncaa champi­onships in louisville, Ky., this saturday. 
“There’ll be 31 teams there, and they’ll be the best 31 teams in the country,” irish wom­en’s coach Tim connelly said. “obviously there are some fa­vorites like a [no. 1] Florida state and [no. 2] oregon. i think our focus has to be on just going in and being as good as we can be. when you have 31 really good teams, you can’t focus on one or two teams, you’ve got to put your focus on doing the things that you need to do to run well.” 
men’s coach Joe piane said that qualifying for the meet is so challenging that he will be pleased if his runners match the performance that earned them their spot in the championship. 
“we certainly hope that the men can continue to run as well as they did at the region meet,” piane said. “There’s 31 teams in the race out of 310 in the country, so just getting to the meet means you’re in the top 10 percent of the whole country.” 
piane said that the course will 
present much less of a challenge 
than the teams running it. 

“it’s fairly flat, but it’s loaded with turns, and it’s grass the whole way, so that’s nice,” piane said. 
but the twists and turns do mean that the irish could find themselves boxed in if they don’t get off to a good start. 
“part of the strategy is dictat­
ed by the course, and this course 
tends to get narrow very quickly,” connelly said. “it’ll kind of dic­tate that we get out hard and get up into the race. we pretty much ran that same race last weekend and tried to run that same race at the conference meet prior to that, so we’ll try to do what we’ve been doing and maybe just do it a little bit better.” 
The men’s team will be ham­pered by achilles injuries to senior Jeremy rae and gradu­ate student Johnathan shawel. shawel will not be able to run on saturday, and rae, who has been one of notre dame’s strongest runners all season, is question­able after he retired two kilome­ters into the 10-kilometer race at the great lakes regionals meet last Friday. 
The women’s team, however, stands to benefit from a season unmarred by injuries. 
“The women are really healthy, and they can be as high as in the top 10 or 15 in the country,” piane said. 
connelly agreed that his team has that sort of potential — he just needs each runner to run their best race. 
“every kid has run well at some point in the season, but every kid’s also walked away say­ing, ‘i can do this better and this better,’” connelly said. “This is [their] last shot. so i think the big key for a lot of our kids is going to be to just race well and race hard for 6,000 meters.” 
The race for the women’s na­tional championship starts at noon saturday at e.p. “Tom” sawyer state park in louisville, Ky., and the men’s race will fol­low at 1:15 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame returns home to play UMass 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 
after capturing a 57-51 vic­tory against ohio state in the carrier classic, the no. 6/7 irish will return to purcell pavilion to host their home opener against massachusetts on sunday. 
The last time out notre dame (1-0) received strong perfor­mances from junior forward natalie achonwa and junior guard Kayla mcbride to defeat the buckeyes aboard the uss yorktown. now the young irish squad has used a week of prac­tice to improve, especially on the defensive end, irish senior guard skylar diggins said. 
“i think in this early stage we need to improve on everything,” she said. “everything is so new to us right now. i think that we bring a different skill set than last year’s team. i think we are a fast team, and i think that could work to our advantage maybe in the press and things like that. we do a great job of scrambling, but right now we are trying to find a defense that is going to be our defense for the rest of the year.” 
The minutewomen (1-1) en­ter the game coming off a loss to central connecticut in their first road contest of the sea­son. sophomore guard emily mital registered a career-high 22 points in the loss and senior center Jasmine watson notched her 14th straight double-double with 16 points, 10 rebounds and five blocks. watson, a na­tive of south bend and alumna of washington high school, is a former high-school teammate of diggins. 
“i do know that they have a for­mer teammate of mine, Jasmine watson, and she had 22 points in [massachusetts’ season-opening win over Kent state],” diggins said. “i know that she is a good player for them under­neath, a big [6-foot-3] post.” 
last season umass went 8-21 and won three of 11 games with­in the atlantic-10 conference. 
with more than a week be­tween notre dame’s opener and sunday’s upcoming contest, the irish have had plenty of time to prepare for their opponent, diggins said. 
“it’s good for this young team to get those extra practice days in, so much time in between for teaching moments,” the wade Trophy watch-listed guard said. “i think that we are prepared. i think the coaching staff is go­ing to do a good job of making sure that we know these teams inside and out and prepare a great scouting report for us to be ready.” 
one of the young players on this year’s irish team, freshman guard Jewell loyd said notre dame has been working espe­cially hard to improve its com­munication on the court. 
“Knowing we are young, talk­ing is really going to help us grow,” she said. “so we have great seniors and great coaches that help us out so we are really not too confused on the court. we are just lucky to have great leadership on the floor.” 
sunday’s contest will mark the first of three games in a five-day stretch for the irish, who have reached the national champi­onship game in each of the past two seasons. after hosting the minutewomen, notre dame will welcome in mercer on Tuesday before heading to ucla on Friday. 
“[we need to] just go one game at a time, really,” loyd said. “you don’t want to overlook any team and you got to just stay humbled, stay within our offense and our defense and just play how we know we can play. and that’s how we stay focused.” 

as the irish try to stay focused on massachusetts in their home-opening outing, it is the senior leader who finds herself think­ing ahead. 
“This is going to be great for us and our fans,” diggins said. “excited to get back and play. it’s kind of bittersweet for me, it’s like the beginning of the end. but i love playing in front of my hometown and seeing all these familiar faces. we have one of the most loyal fan bases in the country.” 
notre dame and massachusetts will tip off at 2 p.m. in purcell pavilion on sunday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




dipauli and took a slap 
Tynan 

shot from range. The puck 
conTinued From page 20 

was deflected by sopho­
“it was a special night for more right-winger peter [Tynan],” Jackson said. “he’s schneider for his third goal had that monkey on his back of the season. summerhays for the past four games and finished with 24 saves, while it was nice to see him fi-racine tallied 29. nally get it. even though Jackson said the irish will he only had that assist to-focus on starting the game night he played a great game stronger and maintaining tonight.” possession more for Friday’s 
with 5:38 left in the third game. period, russo put the puck “we have to come out 
“After, the go-ahead goal, we played a 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 

saturday’s football game between notre dame and wake Forest will not be the only matchup between the two schools with national implications this weekend. The irish and no. 10 demon deacons will take to the pitch Friday, as the two teams will meet in the second round 
of  the  ncaa  champion­ 
ship at  pressly  stadium in  
gainesville, Fla.  

notre dame (14-5-2, 8-1­1 big east) advanced to the second round after a come-from-behind 3-1 victory over wisconsin-milwaukee at alumni stadium on nov. 9. The irish fell behind in the 28th minute when the panthers converted on a penalty kick but went into halftime tied after a goal by freshman de­fender Katie naughton in the 44th minute. notre dame took the lead on a goal by sophomore forward lauren bohaboy seven minutes into the second half and iced the game when freshman forward crystal Thomas scored in the 90th minute. 
irish coach randy waldrum said he wasn’t thrilled with his team’s effort in its playoff opener but noted several posi­tives from the match. 

“i know i was disappoint­ed after the game because i didn’t think we played well compared to our standards,” waldrum said. “having said that, we did some really good things, especially as a really young group that hadn’t re­ally played in a playoff game before. it’s not easy come tournament time to come back when you’re down a goal because teams can bunker in and make it difficult to score.” 
waldrum said notre dame’s biggest problem in its last game was its slow start, which came partly as the result of a switch to a new offensive alignment for the first half. waldrum said he plans to stay with the old alignment against wake Forest (14-5-2, 6-3-1 acc). 
“i wasn’t happy with the way [the alignment] played against milwaukee, so i think we’ll just keep it in our back pocket,” he said. “it’s a little bit more defensive in the starting positions, and i wanted to have it in place in case we need it against wake. i think we’ll just go out and play our way, but, if we have to get more defensive, we’ve at least worked on it for the last couple of weeks.” 
regardless of the team’s of­fensive alignment, waldrum said the irish would need to play a sharp first half against the deacons. 
“i don’t think we can come out slow like we did with milwaukee,” waldrum said. “wake’s a very explosive team, and you can find yourself down really early if you come out with a slow start. if we can come out right from the be­ginning and be sharp, i think we have a real good chance.” 
wake Forest comes into the matchup after a 4-0 first round victory over georgia southern last weekend. The deacons lost in the semifinals of the acc tournament but boast wins over several top-ranked conference opponents, in­cluding no. 3 virginia, no. 13 north carolina and no. 19 duke. 
“They’re a very talented and offensive-minded team,” waldrum said of wake Forest. “The one thing i feel is that they will play a good brand of soccer.” 
wake Forest features of­fensive weapons in junior forward Katie stengel, a mem­ber of the united states u-20 world cup team who leads the deacons with nine goals, and junior forward rachel nuzzolese, who is second with five goals on the season. Junior goalie audrey bledsoe, who has trained with the waldrum-coached united states u-23 national Team, has recorded nine shutouts on the season and boasts a 0.80 goals-against average. 
waldrum said one of the keys for notre dame is put­ting pressure on wake Forest’s defense. 
“in looking at them, the strength of the team is in mid­field and certainly up front, but they are a little vulner­able, especially defensively,” he said. “i think the key for us will be if we can easily put the pressure on them, whether it’s with goal-scoring chances or maintaining possession in the midfield. That’s going to be re­ally important because i think they can be taken out of their game plan if you put them un­der that kind of pressure.” 
notre dame will look to advance to the third round of the ncaa championships when it faces wake Forest at 
4:30 p.m. on Friday at pressly stadium in gainesville, Fla. The winner of the game will meet the winner of Friday’s match between no. 8 Florida and central Florida at 1 p.m. on sunday at pressly stadium. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
real smart game.” 
Jeff Jackson Irish coach 
behind the net, where junior right winger bryan rust col­lected the puck, wrapped around the side and beat racine to the left side for rust’s third goal of the season. 
“after, the go-ahead goal, we played a real smart game,” Jackson said. “we didn’t overextend ourselves when [the wolverines] were pushing players forward. They were trying to get in behind the defense, but we played smart and controlled. we only gave up three shots in the third period.” 
The irish put the nail in the coffin with 1:38 remain­ing in the game when junior defenseman stephen Johns received the puck from freshman winger Thomas sharper in the first period,” Jackson said. “and we need to do better with the puck. we were putting the puck in the wrong places and once [michigan] got it, they transitioned well. Their op­portunities came off of our turnovers tonight.” 

For Friday’s game, Jackson said the irish need to keep the same determination. 
“we need to get the same effort out of our top players,” Jackson said. “They were the real difference in the game tonight.” 
The irish look to sweep the wolverines at the yost arena in ann arbor, mich., at 7:35 Friday. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish face Demon Deacons in NCAA tournament 


Brey 
conTinued From page 20 

as for his own guards, brey said the irish need strong performances from junior guards eric atkins and Jerian grant if they are to win a title in brooklyn. Through two games, atkins and grant are averaging eight and six points per game, respectively, and have combined for nine turn­overs and 3-for-10 shooting from three-point range. 
“we need them,” brey said. “i mean we need  them to be really good for us to win any games in new york.” 
should the irish down saint Joseph’s, they will play the winner of Florida state vs. byu on saturday. Though brey said the irish are not looking past the hawks, notre dame knows winning both games will be a tall order. said he will be watching how “i think what i have to keep 
“it’s hard for me to think newcomers such as senior in mind [is] … our group can past saint [Joseph’s],” center garrick sherman and get better.” brey said. “i’d jinx myself. freshman forward cameron whoever you play on that biedscheid perform and im-Contact Mike Monaco at other side [will be difficult]. prove during the first legiti-jmonaco@nd.edu you’ve got Florida state, mate test of the year. who beat the heck out of us “i just think this is our paid adverTisemenT 
two years ago [in the ncaa first big challenge in a big­conTinued From page 20 a fun game. hopefully we’ll different look there. it will be 
Clark 

tournament] and can really time setting and how will get a great crowd out for it. i 
defend. and you’ve got byu, this group react?” brey said. behind us. if it’s not then it think that would be great for 
that is just amazingly con-“how will we react to it? can becomes an obstacle for us.” us if we could put on a good 
sistent every year. They’re a we focus? can we stay in notre dame returns from a show for college soccer.” 
little bit like our program.” character? i expect those five first-round bye to welcome in notre dame comes into the 
regardless of the match-starters to do that because a michigan state squad that game averaging 2.40 goals 
ups, brey said he is looking to they’ve done it a bunch but also has a conference title to per outing – sixth-best in the 
see how his team responds to we have got some other guys its name. The spartans (12-nation. irish senior forward 
a primetime matchup against coming off the bench. what 9-1, 3-3-0 big Ten) won the ryan Finley leads the team 
ncaa tournament-caliber are they going to be like in big Ten tournament before with 20 goals and 44 points 
opponents. specifically, brey this atmosphere? defeating cleveland state and ranks second nationally 2-1 in the opening round of in goals scored. The big east paid adverTisemenT their ncaa tournament cam-offensive player of the year, paign. notre dame notched a Finley scored the overtime 2-0 home victory against the game-winner in the confer­spartans in the regular sea-ence final to help notre dame son on sept. 14. capture the big east crown. 
“i think they will be a very another veteran leader for good opponent,” irish as-the irish, senior midfielder sistant coach b.J. craig said. and captain dillon powers, “They are always a good game is a finalist for the lowe’s for us, number one. They are senior class award and has playing with a little bit of a 17 points on the year. different shape than when we as the top seed, notre played them before, but the dame would have home-last time we played them we field advantage through the won the game late. i think it quarterfinal round, should will be similar this time. boss the team advance that far. [clark] always says, ‘it’s what in alumni stadium this year we do.’ and i think that’s key. the irish are 8-0-0, a statistic if we play well and do it right that offers no guarantees for i think we’ll be in a good spot sunday, clark said. when it comes down to the “The home field never wins stretch.” you a game. The only thing 
michigan state has rattled that wins you the game is off four straight victories and you,” he said. “it’s going to has won seven of its last nine come down to how we play. as contests. since replacing red-i said to our team at the start shirt junior bryce dobbins in of the year, i said ‘if we play goal, michigan state fresh-properly we need to fear no man Zach bennett has ac-one … if we play badly - if we cumulated a 9-3 record and don’t come out and play - we owns a goals-against average should fear everyone.’ it’s as of 0.83. simple as that.” 
“They’ve won their [confer-notre dame will begin ence] tournament so they are its pursuit of the program’s coming in really hot,” craig first national championship said. “They’ve got a real blue-sunday at 2 p.m.  The irish collar mentality to them right will host michigan state in now. They work very hard for second-round play in alumni each other and maybe that stadium. was the missing thing before. a big change is their goal-Contact Joseph Monardo at keeper, too, so we’ve got a jmonardo@nd.edu 






CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago &        paTricK cross 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: shailene woodley, 21; Jonny lee miller, 40; beverly d’angelo, 61; sam waterston, 72. 
Happy Birthday: emotional ups and downs can clutter your life. you have to prioritize carefully to ensure that you get what needs to be done out of the way, regardless of what’s going on around you. charm coupled with a good attitude and smart partnerships will bring you closer to your goals and greater happi­ness. love and romance are highlighted. your numbers are 6, 17, 23, 25, 34, 36, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Keep things flowing and you will avoid criticism. offer positive thoughts and compassion to those you deal with and you will get what you want in return. love is highlighted, and a past partner is likely to reap­pear.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): put some power behind whatever you say you are going to do. Follow through with determination and intensity. concentrate on relationships that benefit you. sidestep anyone who tries to get in your way. strength and courage will result in leadership. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): put more emphasis on what you have to offer and you will improve your position. emotions will surface, but if you take a compas­sionate approach when dealing with others, you will gain approval instead of opposition. love is in the stars. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you’ll find some bargains if you go shopping. picking up little things for friends or colleagues will be a nice way to show your ap­preciation. networking and exploring pastimes that interest you will lead to new beginnings and exhilarating challenges. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): push through whatever you can complete. it’s important to show how capable you are if you want to avoid complaints. physical chal­lenges will help ease stress. charm, diplomacy and refusing to let anyone upset you will be the trick to maintaining good relationships. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): your knowledge and expertise will separate you from any competition you face. discuss your plans and seek support from your com­munity and those in a position to help you accomplish your goals. a proposal based on the facts you offer will pay off. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): open up emotionally and you will grab the attention of someone who can relate to your concerns. make self-improvements. short trips, shopping or getting together with a friend will brighten your day. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): express your thoughts and plans for the future. personal changes can lead to improved finances as well as a new beginning. re-evaluate your relationships with others and consider who is beneficial. don’t settle for less when you can have more. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep moving in the direction that suits you best. someone may withhold information, but as long as you are aware and do your own fact-finding, you are not likely to miss a beat when striving to reach your goals. love is accentuated. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Tie up loose ends. set up your strategy and take stock of what you have and what you need to get where you want to go. serious progress can be made if you are diligent when you negotiate. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Keep your thoughts private until you see what everyone around you says and does. you can improve or harm your reputation depending on your actions. spending time with someone special or fixing up your home will ease your stress. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): play to win. do not let your emotions lead to your downfall. meddling will not bring good results, but wheeling and dealing positively will make others want to participate in what you are offering. self-improvement will come at a price. 


Birthday Baby: you are engaging and fearless. you are responsive and a powerful crusader. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Top-seeded Notre Dame hosts Michigan State 
ND MEN’S BASKETBALL 

irish shoot for tournament title 

By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 
The no. 3 irish have achieved quantifiable suc­cess this season to a level that marks the 2012 season as one of the program’s best. but all the year’s achieve­ments won’t help the irish on sunday when they put their season on the line against michigan state. 
having captured the big east championship title last week, notre dame (16-3-1, 5-2-1 big east) will open its national tournament sched­ule as the no. 1 overall seed. The conference champion­ship — the third in notre dame’s history — and the top national seed have already taken a back seat to what lies ahead, irish coach bobby clark said. 
“we put it in the cup­board,” he said of the confer­ence achievement. “and we will put the no. 1 seed in the cupboard. The seed was a re­ward for what we did in the past, it’s what we do today and what we do on sunday that’s important. That was a reward for past deeds, this is a completely different thing we’re involved in. what you get if you do well in this tour­nament, you get a national championship. That’s the re­ward you get for winning five games … The no. 1 seed is all 
see clarK PAGE 18 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 

Just two games into the season, the no. 20 irish al­ready have their sights set on a championship. 
after a pair of victories in the opening round of the coaches vs. cancer classic, notre dame (2-0) will head to brooklyn, n.y., to battle saint Joseph’s in the semifinals of the classic at the brand-new barclays center. 
irish coach mike brey said there is value in winning a tournament title early in the season. Two seasons ago, notre dame defeated georgia, california and wisconsin and claimed the old spice classic champion­ship. That team went on to a 27-7 season and a no. 2 seed in the ncaa tournament. 
“i made a comparison to the group that won [the old spice classic] and what it meant to them to play for a championship and the con­fidence it gave them early in the season,” brey said. “and boy that confidence main­tained all the way through. 
“so i’ve drawn parallels there and this group has set some expectations for them­selves, which i love. i started talking about that before this [classic] got started, what a great opportunity to maybe cut a net down in brooklyn.” 
in order to break out the scissors, notre dame will first have to get past the hawks (1-0). saint Joseph’s, which returns every player from a team that went 20-14 and earned a bid to the niT last season, commenced its new campaign with a 61-35 win against yale on monday. 
“i’m very impressed with them,” brey said of the hawks. ‘when you have that many veterans back off a team that won together and are really pointing this year to going back to the ncaa tournament, this is a big east high-level game for us against veteran guys.” 
saint Joseph’s junior guard langston galloway, a member of the preseason atlantic-10 all-conference second team, poured in a game-high 20 points in the season-opener. 
“he will be one of the better shooters we will play against all season and we play a heck of a schedule after saint [Joseph’s],” brey said. “you know what’s great about him? he doesn’t force anything. he just lets the game come to him. he’s got a great feel for the game and we have to have a team awareness of him or he will bury you.” 
see brey PAGE 18 
HOCKEY | nd 3, michigan 1 

Team comes from behind to defeat Wolverines 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
The no. 8 irish had to fight back from a 1-0 deficit in order to overcome no. 13 michigan and earn the 3-1 victory on the road at a packed yost arena. 
a comeback win is new for the irish (7-3-0-0, 2-0-0 ccha) as they were previous­ly 0-3-0 in games when they did not score first. 
The wolverines (4-5-1, 2-3­1-1) scored in the fifth min­ute of the first period when irish sophomore defenseman robbie russo gave up the puck in the defensive zone to wolverine freshman forward Justin selman. selman took a quick wrist shot, putting it over irish junior goaltender steven summerhays’ shoul­der for his first career goal. 
although the irish and wolverines were dead even at nine shots apiece in the first period, the irish were lucky to not be down more because the wolverines had hit two posts, irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
“we were fortunate to get out of the first period only down one,” Jackson said. 
heading into the first inter­mission, the irish faced the challenge of catching up to michigan’s explosive offense, but they would not be held scoreless. 
“we stayed the course,” Jackson said. “[The wolverines] came out with a lot of energy. They had just come off a big loss against michigan state and they looked like they had some­thing to prove. we kept our cool and composure, didn’t get down and continued to play.” 

in the fifth minute of the second period on a penalty kill, junior center T.J. Tynan leapt into the air to stop a clearance from the wolverine defensive zone, brought the puck down and took it across the blue line. Tynan then passed it to junior left winger mike voran at the left circle, who took a one-time shot past wolverine freshman goalten­der mike racine for the short­handed goal and voran’s first goal of the season. eleven of the irish goals this year have come within the first five minutes of a period and nine of them have been within the first four minutes. 
with the assist, Tynan cap­tured his 100th career point. 
see Tynan PAGE 17 

JULIE HERDER | The Observer 
Irish junior center Anders Lee handles the puck during Notre Dame’s 3-1 loss to Boston College on Nov. 9 in Chestnut Hill, Mass. 



