THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOvER NEWSPAPER SERvING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCURATELy 

vOLUME 46, ISSUE 15 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
University prizes green initiatives 
Office of Sustainability unveils its plans for the academic year 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
The Office of Sustainability has opened the school year with several initiatives, some new and some continued from last year, to keep Notre Dame on track to become a more sustain­able university. 
Rachel Novick, education and outreach program manager for the office, said the group is promoting recycling on foot­ball weekends again this year. Through the program, groups of student volunteers distribute re­cycling bags to tailgaters. 
Novick said the people at tail­gates enjoy the game day recy­cling program immensely. 
“They’re really excited for stu­dents to come around,” she said. “Tailgaters look for their blue bags. They love seeing that stu­dents are excited about this.” 
The initiative also serves as a fundraiser for student groups on campus, Novick said. Students volunteer on behalf of a club or residence hall, and the group earns money based on the num­ber of students who assist. 
Student body president Brett Rocheleau said the program has been a huge success in past years. 
“If you ever walked by the recycling bins on game days last year, they were filled to the brim,” he said. 
The Office of Sustainability is also expanding on its dorm energy competitions this year, Novick said. 
The office is utilizing a dash­board system on a website where students can track their dorm’s electricity usage and check how their residence hall ranks com­pared to others. 
“The system is going to auto­mate our competition and make it easier and more engaging for students,” Novick said. 


There will be four competi-Certification. Through this pro­tions this year, each lasting gram, anyone who is running a between one and three weeks. University event can apply for Novick said the first contest his or her event to be certified as would begin Sept. 23. sustainable. 
One of the office’s new ini­tiatives is the Green Event see GREEN PAGE 3 


Comedy writers visit SMC 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Students at Saint Mary’s will be treated to series of lec­tures, workshops and a live show when two veteran com­edy writers visit campus this week. 
Tom Leopold and Bill Persky will visit the College on Sept. 12 and 13 to teach and discuss writing and comedy. 
Persky is a five-time Emmy Award winning director, pro­ducer and writer for famous television shows such as “That Girl,” “The Cosby Show,” “Who’s the Boss,” “The Dick van Dyke Show” and “Kate and Allie.” 
He visited Saint Mary’s last 
see COMEDy PAGE 5 


Club celebrates Eid Al-Fitr 
By SARAH McCARTHY 
News Writer 
The Muslim Student Association (MSA) celebrated the end of Ramadan, a month-long period when Muslims fast between sunrise and sunset, on Friday evening with the festival of Eid Al-Fitr, often abbreviated to Eid and Arabic for “the festivity of breaking the fast.” 
Members of MSA gathered to­gether to eat traditional Middle Eastern foods and pray in the Coleman-Morse Lounge, while MSA leaders explained the tra­ditions of Eid and discussed the place of Muslims at Notre Dame.
 “The Muslim Student Association strives to increase di­alogue and interaction between ethnic groups at Notre Dame,” graduate student and MSA sec­retary Aamir Ahmed Khan said. “Notre Dame is a place where all faiths are respected, and we all believe in the same God.” 
Guests at the festival enjoyed a buffet of traditional Middle Eastern foods such as falafel, hummus and rice with veg­etables, while a PowerPoint pre­sentation taught them about the Islamic holiday. 
According to the presenta­tion, there is a great diversity of Muslims at Notre Dame. Muslim students hail from various coun­tries, including Lebanon, Syria, Turkey, France and Bangladesh. The Eid Al-Fitr celebrations in these countries typically include giving gifts and sweets to chil­dren and coming together to re­joice in the special occasion. 


Sophomore MSA vice president Liyana Syahirah said Eid is both sad and joyous, as it is a celebra­tion of the end of a fast, but also an end to Ramadan, which is full of 
see EID PAGE 3 



Lunch discussion examines lawsuit 

By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
The second installment of the Professors for Lunch series featured a presentation on the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) healthcare mandate and the issue of religious liberty. 
Director of the Center for Ethics and Culture and law professor O. Carter Snead delivered a talk titled “The HHS Mandate and Religious Freedom” at Friday’s event. 
Snead said the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act requires group health care plans to cover certain preventative services with­out cost sharing, which means the services are free to the individual. 
The details were delegated to various administrative agencies, including the HHS, Snead said. The HHS then further delegated the task to the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), 
see LUNCH PAGE 5 


LOvE A BELLE PAGE 3 vIEWPOINT PAGE 6 SETH MEyERS PAGE 8 IRISH INSIDER: NOTRE DAME 20, PURDUE 17 WITHIN 




ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle  Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: Kristen Durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Monica McCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 


Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Who should be the Irish starting quarterback? 


Emily Migliore 


Jared Schneider 
Freshman 

Senior Ryan Hall 
Keough Hall “Golson, because I think some 
“Tommy Rees. yOLO.” fresh, young energy on the field wouldn’t hurt.” 

Brian Campbell 
Junior 
Keough Hall 

“Golson, because I just don’t want Tommy Rees.” 



Sarah Claeys 
Sophomore 
Breen-Phillips 

“Prince Shembo, because he’s the best.” 

David Fleming 
Junior 
Keough Hall 

“Golson, because Brian [Kelly] doesn’t like Tommy Rees.” 



Matt Stewart 
Sophomore 
Dillon Hall 

“Tommy Rees, because that last drive was heroic.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
Mel Flanagan Peter Steiner Email obsnews@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Christian Myers Conor Kelly Carolyn Hutyra Jack Hefferon 

Graphics Scene 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Steph Wulz Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 
Work Off Your Man with a Movie International Open Barack Obama and the National Catholic 
Suzanna Pratt Amber Galik 


Weekend Camera House Crisis of Liberalism Invitational 
Rolfs Sports Center Debartolo Performing Hesburgh Center Law School ND Golf Course All Day Arts Center 4 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 12:15 p.m.-1:15 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-6 p.m. 
Corrections 
Take 10% off all 8 p.m.-9:08 p.m. Discover programs Lecture by Dr. Charles Cross country event. 

The Observer regards itself as personal training. Silent film by Vertov. around campus. R. Kesler. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Panel Discussion Library Workshop Benjamin Balthaser The Merchant of Damsels in Distress 

of journalism at all times. We do, 
Geddes Hall Hesburgh Library Reading Venice DeBartolo Performing 

however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m. 4:00 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Hammes Bookstore Washington Hall Arts Center 

mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
The CSC hosts “From Tutorial on 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-10 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Battleground to bibliographic citations Focus on Modernism Actors from the Film on girls helping 
we can correct our error. 
Common Ground.” using RefWorks. and Anti-Imperialism. London Stage. depressed students. 


NDSMCOBSERvER.COM | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2012 | THE OBSERvER 


Week highlights resources 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Support a Belle, Love a Belle, a weeklong program dedicated to providing resources for girls strug­gling with depression and anxiety, begins today at Saint Mary’s. 
Senior Meghan Casey, vice president of Student Government Association (SGA), said Support a Belle, Love a Belle draws atten­tion to a sensitive issue for college women. 

“It is a really important issue on our campus and even more im­portant for us to let the students know that there is support for because they don’t talk about it,” them,” Casey said. “This is a small she said. “We are highlighting campus, so it is so important for these issues with events to show us, as student leaders, to promote students that they are not alone.” our resources and promote our Junior Kat Sullivan, SGA vice sisterhood.” president of external affairs, said 
Casey said her job includes she hopes these events will en-making sure students know re-courage people on campus to be sources for girls who suffer from more open about these issues. anxiety and depression are read-“The big thing we want to em­ily available, and support is always phasize with Support a Belle, Love there when students need it. a Belle week is that at Saint Mary’s, 
“The SGA door is always open we are part of a sisterhood,” as well,” Casey said. “We want stu-Sullivan said. “I wanted to be in­dents to know that we can provide volved with these events because a safe place for them.” I have struggled with these issues 
Senior Maureen Parsons, presi-myself.” dent of SGA, said many girls are Support a Belle, Love a Belle, already struggling with depres-which now has a committee of 20 sion and anxiety when they enter members, has grown greatly since college, but they do not frequently it began last year, Sullivan said. voice their feelings. “We are really excited to see 
“Students don’t realize that how everything falls into place,” they are not the only one suffering she said. 

With such positive involvement from students, Casey said she hopes the program is able to cre­ate a club in the upcoming years. 
“So many girls are interested, so I think it would make a great organization for years to come,” she said. 
Having a great support system is key to making this week suc­cessful, Sullivan said. 
“This week will hopefully carry out as we continue the rest of our collegiate careers and even after we graduate,” she said. “It is truly important for girls to recognize that everyone struggles and we are here to support those who need it. We have wonderful re­sources on campus that everyone should be made aware of.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Green 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
In order to qualify as sustain­able, Novick said the group must complete an easy checklist that can be found on the Office of Sustainability website. 
“you go through and check off things, and you need a certain number of points [to qualify],” she said. “Then you get to display the green certification logo on your event materials.” 
Some items on the checklist in­
“I know there are people who are very sustainable-conscious, while there are others who just don’t have the knowledge of what being sustainable would entail.” 
Brett Rocheleau 
student body president 
clude minimizing paper use and avoiding bottled water, Novick said. 
The program also has an edu­cation component. Rocheleau said the checklist would teach students small, easy ways to be­come more “green”. 
“I know there are people who are very sustainable-conscious, while there are others who just don’t have the knowledge of what being sustainable would entail,” he said. 
Another new project this year was the installation of hydration stations in each of the dorms over the summer. 
Novick said her office sub­sidized custom stainless steel water bottles for each dorm that expressed an interest in them. 
“They designed a dorm logo for one side and on the other it says ‘Office of Sustainability,’” she said. “That’s really helping to get students excited about using reusable bottles and using the water bottle filling stations, not bottled water.” 
Rocheleau said student gov­ernment hopes to install hydra­tion stations in more campus buildings, such as DeBartolo Hall, O’Shaugnessey Hall and the two campus fitness centers. 
“[The fitness centers] are on board and they’re willing to fund it,” he said. “Nothing is signed, but I don’t see anything stopping that from happening. It could be as quickly as fall break, or it could be somewhere around Christmas break.” 
These initiatives and others all contribute to bring Notre Dame closer to its goals of lessoning its carbon footprint. 
“I think we’re moving in the right direction toward our two-year sustainable strategy,” Rocheleau said. “Having initia­tives like this is the first step I think, and knowledge and awareness of the student body [are others].” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 

Online tutoring expands to ND 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
News Writer 
Apparently, technology can be a teacher’s best friend. 
Using webcams, chat, and a virtual whiteboard, tutors at InstaEDU, an online tutoring portal, assist students with their studies through a computer. 
InstaEDU CEO Alison Johnston said she was inspired to create the company after working as a tutor herself. In her role, she realized private tutor­ing could be both expensive and exclusive. 
“Our general goal is to make high-quality, one-on-one tu­toring universally accessible to any student … to let any student work with a tutor at any time,” Johnston said. “Also, we realized that the time when many high school students are in need of homework help, say 11 p.m., is when many college students are available.” 
Sophomore InstaEDU tutor Jordan Stella started tutoring in high school and also tutors at the First year of Studies Learning Resource Center. 
Stella said tutors connect to InstaEDU through Facebook or Google chat and receive no­tifications whenever a student asks for help. Students can view tutors’ profiles to see areas of ex­pertise and interests. They then select an individual tutor, or can be matched randomly with an available tutor. The tutor’s time is logged, he said, and they are paid by the minute. 

“Why not [do it],” Stella said. “I’m on Facebook anyway.” 
The InstaEDU website lists help available for a variety of subject areas including math, science, finance, languages, English and social studies. 
“[The tutor] can choose areas [he or she] wants to tutor, like SAT prep, ACT prep [or] AP test prep,” Stella said. 
The students looking for tu­toring “could be [in] high school, could be [in] college, could be [in] middle school,” Stella said. 
Stella said he heard about job opportunities at InstaEDU through an email from the Anthropology Department, and the pay-per-minute of tutoring was appealing. 
Tutoring online does not inherently pose a significant problem, Stella said, though he believes lecture-based tutoring is more difficult. 
“In general, it’s all the same, as long as you know what you’re talking about,” he said. “If it’s something I’m not really famil­iar with, then it might be easier if you’re sitting next to me, so I can gauge what you’re un­derstanding, what you’re not understanding. 
“It also depends the subject. Math is something easier to tu­tor over the Internet, there’s one’s answer, one way to do it.” 
Stella also said he thinks the students using InstaEDU are more motivated to learn through tutoring, as opposed to just receiving an answer. 
“We’re not supposed to do their homework for them,” he said. “They’re not just going to 
“Our general goal is to make high-quality, one­on-one tutoring universally accssible to any student ... to let any student work with a tutor at any time.” 
Alison Johnston 
CEO 
InstaEDU 
be like ‘Hey, what’s the answer to this problem?’ They could just Google search that.” 
Stella said he appreciates InstaEDU’s promise of nearly instantaneous tutoring, and be­lieves he would use online tutor­ing if he needed help, as opposed to having to set up a time to meet with a tutor in person. 
“I think I’d rather do online than in person, again depend­ing on the subject. Personally, I’d much rather be like, ‘Hey, I need help right now,’” he said. 
Going into the future, Johnston said InstaEDU is look­ing to expand the tutor base. 
“We’ve had a great time re­cruiting out of these top univer­sities, like Notre Dame,” she said. “We also would love to plug into the online learning platforms. Right now we’re seeing a lot of top schools putting courses online. 
“We think it’s awesome that anybody can go and take class with an MIT professor. The one issue is that you lose a lot of the personal touch, so all of a sud­den, you can’t raise your hand in class, can’t talk to a classmate.” 
That is where InstaEDU can contribute, she said. 
“Say Notre Dame offers class­es online, and it would be very valuable if a student is taking a class from somewhere like Oregon, that you could, actually 
— if there’s a point in the lecture you don’t understand — pause it and immediately connect over video chat with a Notre Dame student who had taken the class last semester and gotten an ‘A’. That’s a pretty powerful experience,” Johnston said. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
Eid 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
blessings. She said Eid carries the distinctive meaning of victory. 
Junior MSA president Saad Khan said although Muslim students sometimes feel excluded among the large number of Catholics at Notre Dame, the MSA gives them a sense of community. 
“As long as you have faith, Notre Dame will only strengthen your beliefs,” he said. 
Fr. Jim King, director of Campus Ministry, said he is proud Muslims feel welcome to engage in conver­sation at the University. 
“I am glad that Muslim students feel that Notre Dame is a place where they can come together to have conversations we need to have so that people can live to­gether in peace,” King said. 
Khan said he is happy as a Muslim with his decision to attend graduate school at Notre Dame. 
“I haven’t felt any difficulty in practicing my religion, and there are plenty of resources on cam­pus for students of the Muslim faith,” he said. 
Syahirah said she feels Muslim students are welcomed into the Notre Dame community. 
“Two people that really helped me were my rector and my [resi­dent assistant],” Syahirah said. “Dorm life was overwhelming at first, but I like Notre Dame a lot.” 
Contact Sarah McCarthy at smccart6@nd.edu 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT NDSMCOBSERvER.COM | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2012 | THE OBSERvER 




inspiration for any writer “It’s my journey of faith Lunch these contraceptives.” 
Comedy 

who wants to break the mold, and finding grace,” he said. 
In response to opposition 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

and his guidance, to Saint “It’s about what led me 
from Catholic and other religious April with Adriana Trigiani, Mary’s alumnae and to cur-to Jesus. There are lots of 
an agency within the HHS. The groups, the HHS announced a a television writer, author rent students, is invaluable,” laughs and jokes, but I think 
HRSA consulted the Institute of one-year period for organizations and member of the Class of she said. “I personally have people will find the story 
Medicine (IOM) and adopted its to reorganize their health plans in 1981. The pair taught master gained a greater insight into touching, too.” 
recommendations. order to comply with the new law, classes and discussed their my own writing and writing Elsbach said she is happy 
Snead said he considered the Snead said. careers with the College as a career due to Bill Persky’s for the opportunity to meet 
process employed by the HHS The deadline for compliance has community. advice from last year.” the pair and learn from them. 
imperfect. been set for Aug. 1, 2013, and Snead Persky said he is looking Persky said he is excited “I am looking forward 
“The governance in this case is said the far-off date might have forward to returning to cam-Leopold will be with him this to Tom Leopold and Bill 
gravely flawed because of the lack been reached with the upcoming pus and interacting with the week as he visits the College. Persky’s workshops on hu­
of transparency and the delegation election in mind. students and faculty. “Tom brings a whole new mor because I have found 
of the decision,” Snead said. “There is a concern that the Aug. “I had such a great time element to the lectures and that often writers, especially 
In accepting the IOM recom-1, 2013 timeline is an attempt to last time,” he said. “There’s a classes,” he said. “He’s one of new writers, find humor dif­
mendations, the HRSA included all eliminate this issue as a topic of sense of being at home when the funniest people I’ve ever ficult to articulate,” she said. 
FDA-approved contraceptives un-discussion during the presidential I’m at Saint Mary’s and feel-met, and I’m excited to [see] “Being able to tell a joke is 
der the provision for free preventa-election,” he said. ing like I belonged. I felt like I the audience react to him.” different than putting a joke 
tive services. The government announced its was amongst friends.” Leopold’s career as a com-to a page. I’m looking forward 
Snead said this decision led to intention to find a means for insur-Senior Elizabeth Elsbach edy writer spans nearly four to the workshop in order to 
objections from religious groups ers to cover the cost of contracep­attended Persky and decades. He has served as improve my style of writing 
based on pro-life concerns or reli-tives for employees without the Trigiani’s lectures and pri-writer, producer and story in this particular genre.” 
gious freedom. employer paying. Snead said he editor for a number of tele-English, communica-
He said there is also a religious is uncertain how this goal will be “Bill Persky is an vision shows including tion studies and theatre 
accommodation in the form of achieved. inspiration for “The Chevy Chase Show,” students will enjoy private 
ministerial exception and a re-“It isn’t clear how you prevent the “Cheers,” “Seinfeld,” “Will master classes and lectures 
insurer from building the cost of 
any writer who “The governance in 

and Grace,” “Hope & Faith,” with Persky and Leopold on free contraceptives into what they 
wants to break 

“Ellen” and “Caroline in the Wednesday and Thursday. 
this case is gravely charge the institution for the plan,” the mold, and City.” He has also worked After Leopold’s show, 

flawed because he said. 

his guidance, with famous entertain-Persky will be signing and Snead said even if such a plan 
of the lack of 

ment personalities such as selling copies of his book “My were settled upon, the University 
to Saint Mary’s transparency and 

Bob Hope, Lucille Ball, Billy Life is a Situation Comedy,” might not be able to take advantage 
alumnae and to 

Crystal and Chevy Chase. and Leopold will sign copies the delegation of because it is self-insured. 
current students, On Thursday evening of his CD, “Just the Hits,” fea­the decision.” The judge hearing the 
at 7:30, Leopold will pres-turing original songs, includ­University’s case is likely to make 
is invaluable.” 
O. Carter Snead 

ent his new one-man show, ing some from his one-man an effort to delay the decision un­
law professor Elizabeth Elsbach 

“When a Comedy Writer show. 
til after the presidential election, 
senior 

Finds God,” about his con-“I always knew I was fun-
Snead said. version from Judaism to ny, but I didn’t know I could 
ligious employer exemption. “If I’m the judge, I’m not going to vate classes last spring. As Catholicism. Persky, who write; that was a lucky thing,” 
However, the ministerial excep-bring all my judicial resources to a an English writing major, helped Leopold write it, will Leopold said. “Writing come­
tion is very limited because it only question that could be decided by Elsbach said she is eager for introduce Leopold before the dy is a high because everyone 
covers employees in a ministerial the upcoming election. I’m going another opportunity to work performance. laughs at the same stuff.” 
role, and the religious employer ex-to try and delay until after the elec­with Persky and to meet Leopold said his show, 
emption has five requirements that tion,” he said. Leopold. which includes original Contact Bridget Feeney at 
must all be met for an institution to Snead said the University would “Bill Persky is an songs, has wide appeal. bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
be exempt. face nine million dollars in fines Snead said the University cannot per year for noncompliance, and 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
take advantage of this exemption will have to find some way to com-because one of the requirements ply should their suit fail. He said the is an institution be deemed a non-possibility of complying does not profit organization under U.S. code mean the University should not and be recognized as a church. oppose the new law. 
The University has brought “The question of what we can its suit on two grounds: the First live with is not the same as what the Amendment and the Religious government can impose on us,” he Freedom Restoration Act. Snead said. said the argument under the First In response to the question of Amendment is that the law is not a what a Mitt Romney administra­“neutral law of general applicabil-tion might mean for the provision ity” and thus can’t violate the free-requiring health care plans to pro­dom of religion clause. vide free contraceptives, Snead said 
The argument advanced it is likely a Romney administration under the Religious Freedom would eliminate the provision. Restoration Act is that the govern-“It was done by administrative ment must have compelling jus-action, so it can be undone by ad­tification and use the narrowest ministrative regulations,” Snead means available when restricting said. “It’s a typical practice for a the religious liberty of an individ-new administration to repeal the ual or institution. administrative regulations of its 
Snead said there are many predecessor.” means of accomplishing the gov-The Professors for Lunch series ernment’s goal of free contra-will continue on Sept. 21 at 12 p.m. ceptives that do not infringe on in North Dining Hall with a panel religious liberty. discussion of the University’s law­
“There are many less-restrictive suit against the HHS. means,” he said. “The government could give a tax credit to individu-Contact Christian Myers at als for every penny they pay for cmyers8@nd.edu 



THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
1:1 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Purdue nostalgia 

Tori Roeck 
News Writer 
Saturday’s game was nostalgic. 

The Class of 2014 shares the same first home game experience as the Class of 2016, characterized by a sunny day, a vic­tory over the Boilermakers and a collec­tive, unquenchable enthusiasm. But the first home game of my junior season had a different feel from that of freshman year. It felt familiar. 
Having never been to a college foot­ball game before, let alone one at the iconic Notre Dame Stadium, I was over­whelmed as a freshman. What do I do be­fore the game? If I go up for pushups, will I fall to my death? Will I flub the words to the Alma Mater? 
A resident of God Quad’s finest Walsh Hall, I woke to the sounds of tourists and the smell of propane that Saturday at 9 a.m. It wouldn’t have been that bad, except the upperclassmen banged on our doors at 6:45 a.m. to run through Stonehenge and sing the Alma Mater in front of the stadium. Exhausted, my roommate wasn’t planning on getting up again until noon, but I dragged her out of bed. “MC, get up!” I cheered. “People are out and about!” 
The only people “out and about” were old alumni and their grandchildren. After wandering aimlessly for a couple hours and realizing we didn’t know any­one hosting a tailgate, I’m pretty sure we ended up doing homework. Nevertheless, we arrived at the stadium eager for some Notre Dame football, and the vibe in the student section was unparalleled. 
The most striking aspect of the expe­rience was the same as that of my first mass in the Basilica: the volume. Just as students sing out with “full heart and voice” at Basilica mass, a sea of green shirts erupted into the fight song with a power I had never felt before. 
While gameday is still magical for us, we upperclassmen will never again be able to harness the wide-eyed won­der of that first game freshman year. I now know when to cheer and when not to cheer, but sometimes I’m too lazy to pump my fist or hit that high note. How did we stand so long without complain­ing? My legs are sore! And while I still woke up pretty early Saturday, it was only so I could squeeze in some practice LSAT questions before my day was shot. 
I learned from housing visitors this summer that I appreciate my home­town much more when seeing it through someone else’s fresh eyes. In the same vein, I can’t wait to bring my best friend from home to his first Notre Dame game in two weeks. 
Maybe I will embrace my inner fresh­man and wake up the echoes at 9 a.m.? 
Or maybe not until 10 … or 11. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Bridget Galassini 
Bitter Bridget 
Ratios. They’re important. They’re relevant in almost every situation. Parties — boy to girl ratio. Food — apple to peanut butter ratio, mac to cheese ratio, peanut butter to jelly ratio. Drinks — coffee to cream ratio. It always has to be perfect. And when it’s not, it’s bad. 
Last Sunday, I was in the dining hall eating my breakfast at 2 p.m. as always. That day, the delicious apple slices were in little bowls, instead of in the serve-yourself bin. I grabbed one of the bowls and put my usual amount of peanut butter on it. Little did I know, the bowl contained more apple slices than I normally put on my plate. To my dismay, I watched as the peanut butter dwindled away, leav­ing me with about 10 apple slices and no more peanut butter. It’s not that I can’t eat apples without peanut but­ter; I can. It’s that all of the other slic­es got to have peanut butter, so why didn’t these ten? (I assign humanistic qualities to food very often. When I was little, my mom or grandma or someone would constantly tell me if I didn’t eat the last two baby carrots or the last three strawberries, they would feel left out and cry. So I thank them for this.) Also, apples taste bet­ter with peanut butter anyway. This caused me to get up and go get more. An inconvenience, albeit a necessary one. 
This brings me to my point: People will go to great lengths to fix ratios when they are off. For guys at parties, this means girls getting in free, mak­ing the “odds be ever in their favor.” For colleges, this may involve hiring enough teachers to bring down the ever-important teacher to student ratio. For students, it’s balancing that triangle we’ve all seen with “enough sleep,” “good grades” and “social life” in the corners and “pick two” in the middle. It’s an exaggeration, but like all exaggerations, it contains some degree of truth. 
Some intellectuals have been fasci­nated with a particular ratio for thou­sands of years — the golden ratio, the value of which is an irrational number called Phi, equal to about 1.618. This should sound somewhat familiar to readers of “The Da vinci Code.” All of the applications and occurrences of this number are crazy. It even has its own website, www.goldennumber.net. There, you can see all the different places it is found in nature. Phimatrix. com offers even more — including the Nissan and Toyota logos and the shape of Pepsi bottles. Saturn’s rings, a human arm, plant leaves — it seems there’s an unspoken language be­tween everything in the universe that says to employ this ratio in some way. For all I know, maybe there is. I don’t understand how it shows up so many times, but it shows me the golden ra­tio is pretty important. 
But as humans, our lifestyles don’t come equipped with the perfect ratios already laid out for us. So, what do we do to get our ratios right? We experi­ment, we sacrifice, we choose and we decide what ratios work for us. We practice until we get the hang of it. As a freshman, I have to learn to give my schoolwork enough time — but it’s really hard being as popular as I am. People are constantly knocking at my door, trying to get me to sacrifice my grades for going out. Or maybe they’re just knocking at my door because of the stash of Nutella and pretzels I have in here. Regardless, I always give in and drop my schoolwork to social­ize. I have to learn to make the ratio of going out to doing schoolwork closer to 1:1. It’s just hard when I’m so cool, because everyone wants to hang out with me constantly. 
So, ratios matter — for plants, plan­ets, companies, us. We all choose the ratios that will benefit us most in every situation. For us, the situations are varied. Most of my interactions with ratios relate to food (just because I love food), so I spend a lot of time either thinking about food or eating food. But different people deal with different ratios every day. And once we find that perfect ratio of peanut butter to jelly, cake to frosting, boy to girl, work to play, skin to clothing or family to friends, we’ll do whatever we can to keep it. 
Bridget Galassini is a freshman. She can be reached at bgalassi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER 
Multiculturalism fosters 
segregation  
After reading “Segregation at the  with all race-specific organizations  are just a few of the responses levied at  
Tabernacle” (Sept. 3), “Segregation or  on campus. While they insist they are  me; they hardly ever retort with a re- 
Celebration” (Sept. 6) and “Celebrate  welcoming to all persons and commit­ sponse that is not laced with hate.  
to unify” (Sept. 6), I agree with the  ted to diversity, race-based organiza- So, if we as a community want to  
first article in that race-specific events  tions are not welcome to a diversity of  heal the wounds of yesteryear, unify  
wholly contradict the University mis- thought.  people with various opinions and  
sion of unification. How can race-dele- As a black American, I reach to the  enlighten each other, then we have to  
gated retreats unite all members of the  various members of the Notre Dame  acknowledge multiculturalism does  
Notre Dame community?  community by sharing my conserva­ indeed foster segregation.  
However, the author of “Segregation  tive-leaning ideology. I find it is the  
or Celebration” said her time at a  blacks and African-Americans who at- Shaaya Ellis  
Latino retreat was open to various  tack me with scorn and derision — the  sophomore  
members of the Notre Dame commu­ same people who claim they appreciate  Stanford Hall  
nity. So apparently such is not the case  diversity. “Uncle Tom” and “sell-out”  Sept. 9  

QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“There’s a difference between a philosophy and a bumper sticker.” 
Charles M. Schulz 
U.S. cartoonist 
What was your favorite part of the game against Purdue this weekend? 
Tweet your response with #viewpointPoll by 5 p.m. Thursday. 



THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2012| NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

When to compromise and when not to 
Elliott Pearce 
The Human Interest 

As the 2012 presidential election nears and the partisan animosity be­tween the candidates and their sup­porters escalates, many concerned citizens have called for a renewed spirit of compromise in American politics. I acknowledge partisan gridlock has kept our government from resolving many crises, and I would like to see our lead­ers adopt a more civil and constructive tone when debating contentious issues. I am suspicious of “compromise” con­sidered in the abstract, though, because I believe most proponents of compro­mise and bipartisanship give faulty reasons for why our politicians cannot come together and work things out. 
The conventional wisdom on this topic is that most people agree about what’s right for America and would readily support a bipartisan agenda if one were ever put forward. Politicians, however, are prideful, selfish and fierce­ly tribal, so they refuse to admit that someone from outside their own party could be “right” or have ideas worth considering and including in their own plans. On the surface, this view makes sense. Those who run for office are more likely to be power-hungry and to think highly of their own ideas 
UWIRE 
Peter Stroud 
Daily Texan 

In his speech [two weeks ago] at the Republican National Convention, the party’s nominee Mitt Romney offered nothing to college students reeling from the soaring cost of higher education. 
According to the College Board, the cost of four-year colleges has increased by an average of $8,244 over the past ten years — a 72 percent rise above infla­tion. Outstanding student loan debt has hit $914 billion, or about 45,000 times the number of students currently en­rolled in American universities. 
We at U. Texas are painfully aware of the skyrocketing costs. “UT gave me a $20,000 per-year scholarship, but I found out pretty quickly that doesn’t cover everything,” theatre and educa­tion senior Jorge Galan said. “Even with that I’ll be graduating with over $60,000 in debt. That’ll take at least 20 years to pay off.” But Galan, a Texas resident, ranks among the lucky ones. In 2010, the cost of attendance for out-of-state students at UT reached $45,960, or 93 percent of the U.S. median household income. 
And this doesn’t just affect us. The price of a college education has an enor­mously outsized impact on the econo­my. The economic explosion of the 1950s saw one of the sharpest rises in GDP per capita in our country’s history — and it had a lot to do with Americans getting affordable college degrees through the than those who do not. Recognizing the important role their allies played in getting them elected can also make politicians feel beholden to “party machinery” and “special interests.” What America needs, according to this diagnosis, is a new kind of leader who is loyal to the people rather than to himself or his party, and who can reach across the aisle to pass the kind of common-sense legislation that will put our nation back on track. 
I believe this view of America’s problem with partisanship is wrong because it fails to recognize how far our divisions extend beyond the po­litical class to the general population, and how deeply they go beyond poli­tics to fundamental questions about human beings, nature and morality. Large, well-organized and powerful groups of people drawn from varying backgrounds hold different and even contradictory views, not only on the purpose of government, but also on the purpose of human life. We compromise with allies and neutral parties, not with those we see as mortal enemies of our worldview. 
No post-partisan leader can arise to speak for all of America, because America does not speak with the same voice. Barack Obama tried to do this in 2008 and succeeded admirably for a time. Sooner or later, though, he had to come out as either for or against eliminating the secret ballot in union elections, cutting entitlement spending and legalizing gay marriage. With each decision he made, he further alienated one group of people and ingratiated himself to another. Try as he might to remain above the fray, Barack Obama is now a liberal Democrat running against a conservative Republican. Should he beat Mitt Romney, liberals would see this as a victory for their side, conservatives as a loss for theirs. There would be no sense of a step forward for all of America like there was after the last election. 
Is compromise impossible? Are we doomed to languish in partisan pa­ralysis until one side amasses enough votes to ramrod its entire agenda through Congress by brute force? I do not believe so. We must instead think about compromise in a different way. The “grand bargains” everyone de­sires that would cut through major problems facing our country (immi­gration, debt ceiling, jobs) like swords through Gordian knots are unlikely to pass. Both parties could, however, try to advance their respective positions simultaneously by passing the least controversial parts of their agendas first and saving the fierce battles for after they have already done everything they could together. 
College costs count 
GI Bill. They flooded the economy with skilled workers and consumers ready and eager to spend their paychecks. Notably, those paychecks weren’t being exhausted paying off student loans. 
If Romney seeks to revitalize the economy, he should alleviate the crush­ing debt burying college students. When we graduate, we’re entering the econo­my thousands of dollars in debt with few job prospects. It doesn’t take a PhD in economics to deduce that there isn’t go­ing to be very much revitalizing spend­ing coming from an enormous swath of the population that’s eating ramen noodles six out of seven nights. 
It seems like a no-brainer, but on this issue Romney has failed to deliver. When asked what he would do about college costs in March, Romney told stu­dents to “shop around.” This is sound, albeit somewhat obvious, financial ad­vice. But he doesn’t seem to realize that we’re shopping in a district where every store is far out of most Americans’ price range. 
But hey, perhaps Romney can be forgiven for not fully understanding the problem. After all, when he went to Brigham young University in 1969, tuition for Mormon students was $215 a semester. Just one semester’s worth of non-resident tuition at UT in 2012 would have allowed young Mitt to attend ByU for about 80 years. 
In May, Romney released a paper titled “A Chance for Every Child,” which blames federal spending for the exor­bitant cost of college, claiming that “a flood of federal dollars is driving up costs and burdening too many young Americans with too much debt and too few opportunities.” The paper crows that “a Romney Administration will tackle this challenge by making clear that the federal government will no lon­ger write a blank check to universities to reward their tuition increases.” Instead, Romney plans to put the nation’s trust in the private sector to “provide infor­mation, financing and education itself.” 
Contrary to Romney’s assertions, tu­ition hikes at public universities have happened largely as a result of huge funding cuts by state governments. In 1985, state appropriations for UT Austin accounted for 47 percent of the university’s budget. Tuition and fees accounted for no more than five per­cent. Now, tuition and fees provide a quarter of UT’s budget while state fund­ing has dwindled to a mere 13 percent. Amazingly, that actually puts UT ahead of many other state colleges. Last year, the state of Michigan contributed a pal­try 4.5 percent of its flagship university’s budget. 
Furthermore, Romney’s trust in the private sector is horribly misplaced. We saw how much private lenders care about their borrowers’ best interests in 2008 when Citigroup, Lehman Brothers and their fellows drove the economy into the ditch by issuing countless toxic mortgage loans and gambling on secu­rities with our money. We see it every time we pass a payday lending office in a poor part of town. Those guys aren’t 
One such example is health care reform. Democrats could have agreed with Republicans to extend the employ­er tax credit for purchasing health in­surance to private citizens, cap medical malpractice lawsuit awards and expe­dite the FDA’s approval process for new drugs before getting into a heated de­bate about whether or not health care is a “right” and the dollar figure to which we are entitled if it is. Pro-life politi­cians should recognize the amount of court-packing required to overturn Roe v. Wade is a long way off , instead focusing their efforts not on outlawing abortion directly, but on eliminating the absurd statutes that allow minors to obtain abortions without the consent of their parents. 
We have a long way to go before we solve even one or two of the problems that threaten our country, but we must resist the urge to make up lost ground in huge chunks by advocating sweep­ing reforms that are unlikely to pass. Instead, we must begin our journey by taking small steps. Who knows? The more steps we take together, the more we might discover we have in common. 
Elliott Pearce can be reached at Elliott.A.Pearce.12@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
the answer. Neither are the for-profit, University of Phoenix-style institutions that happen to be contributing enor­mously to Romney’s campaign. 
All this provides opportunity for President Obama to draw contrast be­tween himself and his opponent, but his own response has been sadly un­derwhelming. So far, Obama has kept interest rates for subsidized Stafford loans from doubling to 6.8 percent, but even Romney was on board with that. In his second term, he plans to make permanent his American Opportunity tax credit, which grants college students up to $2,500 a year but would take $13 billion next year alone to renew. He also promises to expand the maximum Pell grant from $5,550 to $5,635, but that was already scheduled under current laws. 
These are admirable efforts, to be sure, but they bring to mind trying to halt a wildfire with a couple dozen water balloons. In 1980, according to Education Week, the maximum Pell grant covered 77 percent of the average cost of attendance at a 4-year public institution. Today, it covers 36 percent. Even if Obama passes the promised increase, that 36 percent won’t go up by a single percentage point. Something far more substantial is necessary. 
This article originally ran in the Sept. 6 version of the Daily Texan, serving the University of Texas. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERvER |MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 


SETH MEYERS brings the laughs at Stepan 
By SAM STRyKER Assistant Managing Editor 

On a weekend when America’s favorite wedding crashers visited campus, one com­ic talent stood out as the funniest man in South Bend: Seth Meyers. 
Not even the presence of Owen Wilson and vince vaughn at Saturday’s football game could overshadow the fact that the head writer of “Saturday Night Live” brought down the house at the Stepan Center on Friday night. With a standing-room-only crowd of 2,100 in the geodesic dome, and 3,000 watching on a screen outside, the event marks the largest in the Student Union Board’s (SUB) history. 
Luckily for students in attendance, Meyers did not disappoint. Walking out to cheers of “Seth, Seth, Seth,” the “Weekend Update” host started the show off by sharing memo­ries of a previous visit to Notre Dame, when he attended a game as a Northwestern undergrad. 
From there, Meyers launched into an hour-long set, touching upon personal expe­riences, everyday observations and pop-cul­tural references. Everyone and everything was fair game for the target of his humor, from Greece and their “yogurt-based econ­omy” to girls with cameras. 
“They all need the same picture on their camera,” Meyers said. “One day, God will­ing, technology will advance to the point where we can email each other our photos.” True that, Seth Meyers. 
Some of Meyers’ strongest material dealt with personal experiences. He reminisced about his time living abroad in Amsterdam, poking fun at the assumed motivation for such a move. 
“It’s not why you think,” he said. “The rea­son I lived in Amsterdam for two years is be­cause weed is legal there.” 
Red-light-district-based humor aside, Meyers moved on to some hilarious Owen Wilson and Matthew McConaughey imper­sonations when describing his cannabis-fueled hijinks in the Dutch city, and hit the nail on the head when he described students returning from Europe as the most-hated, most-obnoxious people on campus. For those juniors who decide not to leave the cultural hotbed of South Bend during their junior year, this joke rung especially true. 
Meyers’ other European-related humor was also on the mark. Meyers commented on the European economic crisis and the discord between the Old World countries. 
“I can’t make dinner plans with three friends,” Meyers said. “Think of how hard it would be [to solve problems] if you all didn’t speak the same language and all your grand­parents killed each other during World War II.” 
As head writer at “SNL,” Meyers is gear­ing up for an election year featuring a set of four candidates ripe with comic potential. Meyers made a Freudian slip as he shifted to presidential humor — accidentally switch­ing one letter in “election,” saying a very un-Catholic word that left the audience in stitches — and joked about how dogs seem to be at the center of each candidate’s image problems, with Romney strapping his pooch to the roof of his car on a family road trip in the 1980s, and Obama eating man’s best friend in his time abroad in his youth. 
But the highlight of Meyers’ current events material was based on his experience as the host of the White House Correspondents Dinner in 2011. Meyers made some self-dep­recating jokes about a botched handshake with President Obama, and also highlighted how he made fun of Donald Trump, much to “The Apprentice” host and real estate mo­gul’s disdain. 
“Donald Trump said if he runs for presi­dent, it will be as a Republican, which is funny, because I just assumed he would be running as a joke,” Meyers quipped. 
The best material of this segment of Meyers’ set was his commentary on SEAL Team 6’s mission against Osama bin Laden. The terrorist happened to be killed the day after Meyers hosted the press dinner. The comic noted “almost everyone” was excited about bin Laden’s death — except himself. Meyers joked that the day after he hosted the dinner, he thought he had done such a good job he would be on the news as the lead story the following Monday. 
“My theory is this,” Meyers said. “Obama also told some jokes that night. He was funny, but I was a little bit funnier. I think he went back to the White House in a bad mood. I think he went to the Situation Room and got his staff together and was like, ‘Seth Meyers has the focus. We have to do some­thing to get the focus back. Any ideas?’ And someone was like, ‘We can kill bin Laden,’ and Obama was like ‘Do it.’” 
From start to finish, Meyers had the au­dience bent over with bellyaching laugh­ter. Meyers even excelled in delving into topics most goody-two-shoes Notre Dame students would not normally find appeal­ing — including pornography, gay jokes and the aforementioned marijuana humor — although the laughter was cautious for this material, something Meyers picked up on and teased the Notre Dame students for. 
Meyers closed the show with some “Weekend Update” jokes that didn’t make it past television censors. This was met with raucous applause. 
From start to finish, Meyers aced the show. The “Comedy on the Quad” event has featured lesser names in the past such as Gabriel Iglesias and Judah Friedlander, and as such the “SNL” cast member was a breath of fresh air and a total success. If the maxim that laughter is the best medicine has any truth to it, all the maladies of Notre Dame students were cured Friday evening. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 
THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2012| NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 


[in your show] and I know it is a big part SS: What is your favorite part about SS: And how about someone more 
By SAM STRYKER 

Assistant Managing Editor of your routine. What are your general working at “SNL”? recent? thoughts on this year’s election, maybe as SM: The people you work with are re-SM: you know, he killed it earlier this opposed to the last one? ally fun. you slave away on a Tuesday week — Bill Clinton would be so much 
On Friday evening, “Saturday Night SM: Well, for us it’s always a little night, trying to write a couple of funny fun. He’s never hosted, never cameo-ed. Live” head writer and “Weekend Update” more exciting when there is no incum-things, and it is really hard, and nothing That would be great. host Seth Meyers performed a one-hour bent. That means all of the characters is less funny than having trouble writ-SS: Do you have a character or role that standup set to a full house in the Stepan are sort of new. So in 2000 or 2008, you ing something funny. But the nice thing is your favorite to play? Center in this year’s installment of get to have people you have never seen is on Wednesday, you know you have SM: Doing “Weekend Update” is my “Comedy on the Quad”. After the show, before or do impressions you have never your two things, but you also get to hear favorite. It’s kind of the thing I most The Observer’s Sam Stryker sat down with seen. Obviously last election was real 30 things that were written in the other wanted to do on the show. Doing that, Meyers for an exclusive interview — and lightning in the bottle for us with Sarah rooms. That is really fun. Getting to see and especially with someone like no subject was off the table. Palin looking like the most famous per-things done for the first time at a read-Bill [Hader] is doing Stefon, or Bobby 
[Moynihan] is doing Drunk Uncle or 

Sam Stryker: So first, a generic ques-
Andy [Samberg] is doing Nic Cage, like tion. When did you know you wanted to being out with your friends and being pursue a career in comedy? able to be silly behind the desk is really 
Seth Meyers: I guess by college I had a great. sense it was something I wanted to do. SS: Do you have a dream acting role be-My parents were really funny people, yond “SNL”? and they introduced us to “SNL” and SM: I feel way more comfortable play-stuff like “Monty Python” when we were ing Seth Meyers than I do other people, really young. My brother and I would so my dream would be if I could contin­do shows in high school. Then in col-ue to do that. lege, I started to do an improv show at SS: Building on that, do you want to Northwestern and that was when I was stay on “SNL”? like, “I want to try to do this at least for SM: I’d say through this season. I’d say a little while.” I started going to Chicago I’m kind of the grey beard there now, so and taking classes. I don’t know how much longer I can stay. 
SS: So you were more looking to pur-I’m so worried what I do next will be sort sue the comedy route than a career on of boring. I’ve never been bored at “SNL”. television? SS: Who is the funniest cast member 
SM: yeah. I went to college as a radio, you have ever worked with? Tv, film major so I thought I would may-SM: [Amy] Poehler, I’m going to say be write and direct stuff. I didn’t really Poehler. Fred Armisen is another who think on-camera was really my future. I probably makes us laugh the most in the kind of backed into that a little bit. office. 
SS: And did you ever have a moment son who had ever been on our show, so SS: And what is a weird fact that people where you were like, “I made it”? that’s not going to happen this time. But don’t know about you? 
SM: No, I don’t really know. I feel more I do feel like the next couple of months through is really great. SM: I have a nine-pound Italian grey­comfortable now that I’ve been on the will really sort of shape the dialogue of SS: Do you have a favorite person who hound named ‘Frisbee’. show [SNL] long enough, but for the what type of election we are really look-has hosted the show? SS: If Tina Fey and Amy Poehler got into first five years I kept thinking someone ing at. For us at “SNL” we pay a lot of at-SM: I have a lot of favorite hosts. I’ll a cage match, who do you think would would come knock on my door and ask tention to the conventions that happen, say my favorite host from last year was win? for my security pass and slowly guide but the reality is when our show comes probably Melissa McCarthy.  She was re-SM: I think all of humanity would be me to the elevators. on Sept. 15, I don’t think people will ally great. It’s always fun when old cast dead and gone while they were still go-
SS: Do you have any advice for kids be talking about the conventions any-members come back. Last year we had ing at it. Two immortal forces. looking to pursue a career in comedy or more. They might be talking about Clint Jimmy [Fallon] and Maya [Rudolph] and SS: One last thing. You talked about hu­television or the entertainment business? Eastwood talked to an empty chair, at the year before we had Amy [Poehler] morous experiences throughout your life 
SM: I think the best thing you can do, least I hope they do, I hope they remem-and that’s always really fun. [in your show]. Do you see something and for comedians certainly, as young as you ber that. SS: Do you have any weird host stories say, “This is funny” or “This would make can, you have to just get on stage and SS: Do you have someone [involved in that stand out to you? for a great joke”? Is that how you see the try to figure out what your voice is go-the election] you most look forward to SM: It’s always weird to spend a week world? ing to be. It’s really important, because writing for on the show, in terms of the with someone who has maybe been your SM: I think when you have something you are going to have failures, and it’s races? hero. I think my first year I shared a very funny happen in your life and then you better to get them out of the way when SM: One person we haven’t done an long, quiet elevator ride with Robert De have friends you tell it to, there are times you’re young then when you get older. impersonation of is Paul Ryan. So it will Niro. It was only 17 floors but it felt like a when you are like “Oh this is funny. This It’s better to knock out the failures. you be fun if we can find some fun in him. thousand. might be something to work with for learn more from them than you do the SS: So would you be playing him SS: And do you have a dream person to people who aren’t my friends.” successes. maybe? host, dead or alive? You can pick anyone 
SS: I’m going to jump right into elec-SM: I won’t, no. It will be somebody in history. Contact Sam Stryker at tion stuff, because you touched upon it else. SM: Cleopatra. sstryke1@nd.edu 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Second wild card adds excitement 

Mike Monaco 
Sports Writer 
For just a minute, let’s for­get all his mishaps; instead, let’s give credit where credit is due. 
Bud Selig has made his share of mistakes. The steroid era has been downright em­barrassing and has tainted a generation of baseball. Oh, and it won’t permanently go away until the Hall of Fame fates of potential inductees such as Roger Clemens and Barry Bonds are decided. 
Selig cancelled the 1994 World Series and ended the 2002 All-Star Game in a tie. 
He’s far from perfect. 
But when he added a sec­ond wild-card team to each league, he got it absolutely spot-on correct. 
Now, instead of having just one or two playoff races down the stretch at the end of September, every team is fighting for its spot in the postseason landscape. In powerful divisions like the AL East, there can be three playoff teams. 
For example, the Baltimore Orioles, New york yankees and Tampa Bay Rays are all within two games of one another in the standings. In years past, only two teams earning playoff berths in each league, it didn’t mat­ter whether you made it as a division winner or the wild­card team. Sure, the home-field advantage for the first series might be a small incen­tive to go for division instead of wild card, but, for the most part, all playoff spots were created equal. 
Now, however, getting a wild-card spot is not nearly as appetizing as winning the division. The two wild­card winners now square off in a one-game playoff to determine who advances into the divisional round of the playoffs. So in a division like the AL East, where there are often two playoff teams, winning the division crown matters. 
In years past, we frequently saw division leaders with slim leads coast their way into October, because they knew at worst they would still be able to lock up the wild card spot and be no worse for wear. Well, coast no more. Winning the division is now a much greater incentive, and we have Bud Selig to thank. 
Let’s face it: the MLB sea­son is long and, at times, mo­notonous. Seeing teams give half-hearted efforts in the end of September was just a 

  The sheer number of teams that still have realistic playoff hopes has gone up as well after the addition of the second wild-card 
spot.  
would have had the chance to  slap in the face to fans every- 
advance to the playoffs. But  where. But now, teams have  
this time around, we could  to give it their all down to the  
reasonably have both wild  wire if they are within range  
cards come out of the same  of the wild-card positions.  
division.  And lastly, how exciting  
The sheer number of teams  are these one game wild- 
that still have realistic play- card playoffs going to be?  
off hopes has gone up as  One game. Win or go home.  
well after the addition of the  Teams will almost certainly  
second wild-card spot. In the  trot out their staff aces, giv- 
American League, there are  ing us outstanding pitching  
five teams within two games  matchups with everything  
of each other, while a sixth  riding on this one game.  
(the Tigers) are just 4.5 games  Here are some potential  
back of the first spot as of  American League wild-card  
Sunday.  aces. Mix and match for your  
In the National League, the  favorite one-game pitch- 
Braves are running away with  ers’ duel: David Price, Jered  
the first wild card. But other  Weaver, C.C. Sabathia, Justin  
teams are still in conten­ verlander.  
tion for that second position:  So while he’s made his mis- 
the Cardinals, Dodgers and  takes, don’t be afraid to send  
Pirates are separated by just  Bud Selig a thank-you note  
1.5 games, while two other  sometime between now and  
teams are within 5.5 games.  the end of October.  
In addition to increasing  
the number of teams fighting  Contact Mike Monaco at  
for postseason glory, Selig’s  jmonaco@nd.edu  
decision to add a second  The views expressed in this  
wild-card team made win- Sports Authority are those of the  
ning the division critical.  author and not necessarily those  
Previously, with four teams  of The Observer.  

TENNIS 
Serena Williams takes home fourth U.S. Open 

Associated  Press 
NEW yORK — Finally tested, even trailing, at the 
U.S. Open, Serena Williams turned things around just in time. 
Two points from defeat, Williams suddenly regained her composure and her strokes, coming back to win the last four games and beat top-ranked victoria Azarenka 6-2, 2-6, 7-5 on Sunday night for her fourth championship at Flushing Meadows and 15th Grand Slam title overall. 
“I honestly can’t believe I won. I really was preparing my runner-up speech, be­cause I thought, ‘Man, she’s playing so great,” Williams said during the trophy pre­sentation after the 2-hour, 18-minute match, adding: 

FOR SALE 
 Party Equipment and Arcade Machines. Stage and Theatrical light­ing and special effects. Cauvet Kinta X LED light display $85, Foggamatic FM 201 professional fog machine with remote $65. Bally coin operated com­mercial pinball machines, Aladdins Castle $600, High Deal $500, Speakeasy $700. Dynamo coin oper­ated commercial air hockey table with overhead score display $600. Xlarge Chicago Bears G-111 leather quar­terback club NFL jacket new $300. Large leather and wool ND color varsi­ty jacket new $80. Call 574-273-8936 
“I’m really shocked.” 
Might be the only one. 
After all, what really was stunning was that Azarenka made things as interesting as they were, given that she came into the day 1-9 against Williams over their careers. 
Add in that Williams hadn’t dropped a set in the tourna­ment, losing only 19 games through six matches before Sunday. All part of a tremen­dous run she is putting to­gether in reaction to her loss at the French Open in late May, the American’s only first-round exit in 49 career major tournaments. Since then, she is 26-1, winning Wimbledon and the London Olympics. 
There hadn’t been a three-set women’s final in New york since 1995, and Williams came through with a late charge to become the first woman to win Wimbledon and the U.S. Open in the same season since a decade ago, when — yes, that’s right — she did it. 
“Serena deserves the win. She showed how true of a champion she is,” said Azarenka, who managed only 13 winners, 31 fewer than Williams. “I definitely gave it all today. Stepping out of this court today, I will have no regrets.” 
Azarenka hadn’t dropped a three-set match all season until Sunday, going 12-0 in matches that went the dis­tance, including victories over defending U.S. Open champion Sam Stosur in the quarterfinals and 2006 cham­pion Maria Sharapova in the semifinals. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 
  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Declaration of Indepence  Preamble 
July 4th, 1776   in Philadelphia, Pa.  
Writen  by  Thomas  Jefferson  
Signed  by  56  delegates  

1 When in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another, and to assume among the powers of the earth, the sepa­rate and equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature’s God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare the causes which impel them to the separation. 
2.1 We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are cre­ated equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalien­able rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 



TENNIS 

Djokovic advances to face Murray in final 
Associated Press 
NEW yORK —The weather was much better at the U.S. Open on Sunday. So was Novak Djokovic. 
Under a cloudless blue sky, in only a hint of wind, defend­ing champion Djokovic got his game into high gear and reached his third consecutive final at Flushing Meadows by beating fourth-seeded David Ferrer of Spain 2-6, 6-1, 6-4, 6-2 in a match suspended a day earlier. 
“I was a different player,” the second-seeded Djokovic said. “I felt much more comfortable on the court today than I did yesterday, (when) obviously the conditions were more brutal.” 
Ferrer led a shaky Djokovic 5-2 in the semifinal’s opening set Saturday, when wind was whipping at more than 20 mph and play was halted because of an impending rainstorm. When they resumed about 18 hours later, Ferrer held serve to take that set — and then Djokovic quickly took control, using the brand of defense-to-offense baseline excellence that has carried the Serb to four of the past seven Grand Slam titles. 
“We were all praying for less wind today,” Djokovic said. “He handled the wind much better than I did.” 
In Monday’s final, Djokovic will face Olympic champion Andy Murray, who beat Tomas Berdych 5-7, 6-2, 6-1, 7-6 (7) on Saturday. It’s the fifth consecu­tive year the U.S. Open men’s title match has been played a day later than planned. 
The women’s final between Serena Williams and victoria Azarenka that was supposed to be played Saturday night was shifted to Sunday afternoon, the fourth time since 2008 the women’s event went long, too. 
The third-seeded Murray was able to enjoy a day off Sunday, while Djokovic had to put in some work. But in the end, it wasn’t too taxing: Djokovic played only about two hours and was finished with Ferrer by 1:20 p.m., giving him more than 24 hours to rest before taking on Murray. 
“I don’t feel any problems physically. ... It was good to have the job done in four sets,” Djokovic said. “I feel fresh as I can be at this stage of the tournament.” 
Murray is one of only two men to lose each of his first four major finals — his coach, Ivan Lendl, is the other — and he’ll try to avoid dropping to 0-5. He’ll also try to become the first British man since Fred Perry in 1936 to win any of tennis’ four most important tournaments. 
“I don’t think there’s any clear favorite,” five-time major champion Djokovic said. “He’s looking for his first Grand Slam title. I’m sure he’s going to be very motivated, and hopefully we can come up with our best tennis for this crowd.” 
Djokovic leads the head-to­head series against Murray 8-6 but lost their most recent matchup in the semifinals of the London Games. 
He and Murray were born a week apart in May 1987 (Djokovic is younger), and they have come up through the ranks together and know each other well. 
Before heading out to warm up for his semifinal, Murray sat in front of a computer with Djokovic and they watched on-line together while Scotland and Serbia played to a 0-0 draw in a qualifying match for soc­cer’s World Cup. 
Djokovic extended his 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
winning streak in Grand Slam matches played on hard courts to 27, including titles at last year’s U.S. Open and the Australian Open in 2011 and 2012. He slides along the sur­face as though it were red clay, allowing him to use his elastic limbs to contort and stretch to get to opponents’ shots that ap­pear to be winners. 
Over and over and over again Sunday, Djokovic would pro­long points until he could gain an advantage or Ferrer would flub a groundstroke. After end­ing one 25-stroke exchange by snapping off a cross-court backhand winner while serv­ing out the second set, Djokovic bellowed and spread his arms wide, holding a pose, as his parents rose to their feet in his guest box. 
By late in the third set, when Djokovic took 12 of 14 points to go from a 3-2 deficit to 5-3 lead, Ferrer was muttering to him­self and in the direction of his coach in the stands, the very picture of frustration. 
“Playing so bad; a lot of mis­takes,” Ferrer said. “He was better. I don’t have to say noth­ing. In some games in the third and the fourth set, I lost a little bit my focus.” 
The loss dropped Ferrer to 0-4 in Grand Slam semifinals, with another of those defeats also coming against Djokovic at the U.S. Open, back in 2007. 
Djokovic was playing in his 10th consecutive Grand Slam semifinal, equaling Rod Laver and Lendl for the second-longest streak behind Roger Federer’s record of 23. 
And after dropping that first set of this semifinal — the only set he’s lost all tournament — Djokovic immediately began turning things around, break­ing Ferrer twice in a row en route to a 5-0 lead in the sec­ond. In the third, Ferrer made a little charge, taking three games in a row to briefly lead that set. 
But the difficulty that deal­ing with Djokovic presents be­gan to wear on Ferrer. He would rush shots, trying to sneak balls past Djokovic, and that simply was not going to work on this day. Ferrer made three unforced errors to get broken and fall behind 4-3 in the key third set, and when Djokovic eventually served it out with a 123 mph ace, their match pret­ty much was over. 



SMC VOLLEYBALL | SMC 3, ALBION 1 
Belles recapture winning ways 

By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
After losing their first con­ference match of the season Sept. 4 against Trine, the Belles bounced back in their second conference fixture this week­end. Against rival Albion, Saint Mary’s brought home their first MIAA victory of the season in four sets, claiming a 25-19, 24­26, 25-15, 25-20 win. 
“It’s definitely a good feeling, being 1-1 in the conference and 5-1 overall,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “It’s definitely a good starting place and a win is always good.”
 Sophomore outside hit­ter Kati Schneider, who had 14 kills, led the Belles offen­sively. Senior captain and set­ter Danie Brink did her part as well, as she added 35 helpers to her growing assist total. On top of that, Schneider and Brink had a combined five aces. 
yet even with great individu­al performances, Saint Mary’s team play was equally as prominent. A total of five play­ers had double-digit digs, in­cluding 11 from Schneider and 10 from Brink.  in that category defensive specialist outside hitterSophomore defensive specialist Samantha Grady and freshman outside hitter Katie Hecklinski, who both had 12, led the Belles in that category. 
“Having all those girls with double-digit digs is awesome,” Kuschel said. “Everyone con­“For a freshman to be so com­posed and in control defen­sively is an awesome thing to see.” 

While the team played well as a whole, Kuschel said that the Belles performance in the match was far from flawless. 
“We are continuing to have a lot of unforced errors,” Kuschel said. “Serving was a big strug­gle for us Saturday.” 
Thus, there remains room to improve for this young Belles team. With only one up­perclassman on the roster in Brink, Saint Mary’s is younger and less experienced than al­most all its opponents. Still, the Belles have improved and look to keep doing so, Kuschel said. 
“We saw some things that we worked really hard on [improv­ing],” she said. “Other things, we still need to continue to work on. It’s early in the sea­son so it’s expected, but we still have things to work on.” 
The Belles will look to do just that this week when they Belles will host another confer­ence rival in, Adrian (4-4, 0-3 MIAA).  Kuschel said at home,, the Belles would look to play even better than they did in their win over Albion. 
“We need to play better than we did this weekend,” said Kuschel. “We had a lot of un­forced errors that we’re just not really happy with that we need to clean up.” 
The Belles will not only look 

tributed defensively.” to improve, but also nab their 
For Hecklinski, it was the second conference win, slid-second match in a row that she ing above .500 in a competitive led the team in digs. Hecklinski MIAA race. tallied a team high nine digs Saint Mary’s opportunity against conference rival Trine will come on Wednesday, when (7-1, 3-0 MIAA) in the Belles’ they host Adrian at 7 p.m. loss. 
“Hecklinski is just doing an Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at awesome job,” Kuschel said. asantmil@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY | CALvIN INvITATIONAL 
Saint Mary’s finishes 17th 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles participated in the highly competi­tive Calvin Invitational on Saturday and placed 17th in a field of 22 teams. 
Host Calvin won the tournament, while Division II squad Grand valley State placed sec­ond. Junior Jessica Biek was the top finisher for the Belles with a time of 19:15.7 for 50th place overall in a field of over 300 runners. Sophomore Samee Chittenden was the next Saint Mary’s run­ner to finish with a colle­giate personal record time of 20:33.1, good for 142nd place. Belles coach Jackie Bauters said she was happy with how her team raced. 
“Overall, I’m happy with our team’s results,” she said. “While we were hop­ing to race better than the results showed, especially against some of our MIAA competitors, I think we gained a lot in the first meet.” 
Bauters said that while some of her runners didn’t have the days they hoped 
“While we were hoping to race better than the results showed, especially against some of our MIAA competitors, I think we gained a lot in the first meet.” 
Jackie Bauters 
Belles head coach 
for, as a team, the Belles 
felt good about how they 
finished out their first five-
kilometer race of the year. “Several of the girls had 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
[personal records] in the 5K this week,” Bauters said. “Not everyone had the day they hoped for, but in breaking down the race afterwards I feel like ev­eryone gleaned something positive from the race. “ 
Although Bauters was pleased with her team, she acknowledged that her team still has some work to do. 
“As a team we are not in prime racing shape right now, but I feel confident with the work we are doing as a team,” she said. “I feel like we will be prepared when the races count and take the enthusiasm this team brings every day to get us to that point.” 
The Belles will return to action this Friday, when they participate in Notre Dame’s annual National Catholic Championship. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 



NDSMCOBSERvER.COM | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2012 | THE OBSERvER 


McHugh 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
through five sets requires a special kind of mentality. 
“The toughest part about playing five-set matches is staying mentally and physi­
“We hit really well against high-caliber teams and improved our out-of-system play ... Some of the things we still need to work on, though, are finishing games, consistently communicating on and off the court and making fewer errors altogether.” 
Andrea McHugh 
Junior opposite side hitter 
cally tough, because by the fifth set, your body tends to slow down a little bit,” she said. “Personally, I love playing five-set matches because I love playing in pressure situations.” 
While the Irish were un­able to take the Trojans to five sets, they managed to pull ahead in the first two sets and forced USC to fight back. McHugh said on. to work on, though, are fin-bounce back when they that there were good things “We hit really well against ishing games, consistently host the Golden Dome to take away from both high-caliber teams and im-communicating on and off Invitational next weekend. matches on Saturday, but proved our out-of-system the court and making fewer that there were aspects of play,” McHugh said. “Some errors altogether.” Contact Laura Coletti at play the Irish need to work of the things we still need The Irish will look to lcoletti@nd.edu 




Shipp 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
“That was the key goal for us to win the game.” 
Fouls flowed in the sec­ond half, which led to Notre Dame’s two other goals. With 23 minutes left in the second half, Irish junior forward Harrison Shipp was tripped up right outside of the box. Senior captain forward Dillon Powers took the kick and bent the ball over the the ball in the net. It seemed an eternity to me waiting, but it was a great goal when it did come.” 
Like in Sunday’s con­test, Brown was a catalyst in Friday’s game when in the 81st minute he dished a through ball to streaking sophomore defender Max Lachowecki, who put the ball just inside the post for the game-winning goal. 
“Leon played me a great ball, and that’s really my bread-and-butter; the left­

“It says a lot about our team this year, the fact that we can get down in the game with 10 minutes left in the game and still just keep playing and keep working and keep pushing for that goal, and we finally got it.” 
Max Lachowecki Irish sophomore defender 
wall, out of the reach of Zips junior keeper David Meves and into the side of the net. The insurance goal came on a penalty after senior forward Ryan Finley was tripped up chasing down a through ball from Powers. A scuffle broke out between both sides and shoving ensued. Finley took the penalty kick and placed it low in the corner. 
“It was a growing up game for us,” Clark said. “These were the games we would have ended up tying last year.” 
Friday’s game against Oregon State was also one that tested Notre Dame’s re­siliency. The Irish dominat­ed the game, but were unable to finish until late in the sec­ond half. 
“I thought we handled [Oregon State’s] athleticism very, very well,” Clark said. “I thought the whole game we bossed the game, we con­trolled the game, there’s no question. But we didn’t put 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
footed shot and trying to hit it as hard as I can far post and put it on goal,” Lachowecki said. “I think it’s a big goal at that time of the game. It says a lot about our team this year, the fact that we can get down in the game with 10 minutes left in the game and still just keep playing and keep working and keep pushing for that goal, and we finally got it. And I think that’s the big difference be­tween our team this year is that we’ve got that mindset, we’re gritty.” 
Notre Dame was able to capitalize on opportunities this weekend. Oregon State’s leading scorer, sophomore forward Khiry Shelton, went down in the 10th minute and did not play for the remain­der of the game. 
“That’s a big loss,” Clark said. “He’s a big-time player for them. For him not to be out there, that blunted their offense. I was sorry to see that happen. We were going to control the game, but I think that would have made their transition that more potent if he had been on, be­cause he is definitely a top-class player.” 
The Irish look to remain undefeated against Michigan State at home this Friday with a 7 p.m. start. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

PAID ADvERTISEMENT 

Waldrum 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
rocky start two days later at Husky Soccer Field in Seattle, as Washington (7-0-0) junior midfielder Lindsay Elston drilled an 18-yard shot past Hight in the 29th minute to put the Huskies on the board. Washington wasted little time widening its lead, as sophomore forward Jaclyn Softli knocked down Hight’s clearance attempt and boot­ed the ball past two defenders to score Washington’s second goal in the 38th minute. 
A halftime goalie switch, with sophomore Sarah voigt relieving Hight, made little difference for the Irish, as the team struggled to find the net. A late goal by Washington in the 89th minute pushed the Huskies’ margin of victory to three. 
“We just came out really flat against Washington and got down in the first half, which made it really difficult to come back,” Waldrum said. 
Waldrum said he made the decision to switch out Hight for voigt because Hight had been limited in practice last week due to a slight shoulder injury. 
“Elyse was not able to do much training this week be­cause of a shoulder injury,” Waldrum said. “Although she played well, she made some slight mistakes Friday, and I contemplated mak­ing a change then, since the fact that she was out during 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 


the week hurt her. Sarah did a nice job in the second half, and we have two goalkeepers we feel are capable of han­dling the job.” 
With the grueling non-conference portion of its schedule over, Notre Dame will look toward its Big East conference slate, which be­gins Friday with a nationally televised contest against No. 12 Louisville. Waldrum said his team’s nonconference competition, which includ­ed four ranked opponents, strongly prepared the Irish for the rigors of the confer­ence schedule. 
“We had a tough schedule early with a lot of our young players playing, and we hope it makes us better,” Waldrum said. “I think we’re in a good place as we head into conference games.” 
Notre Dame will be bol­stered in its conference games by the addition of junior midfielder Mandy Laddish and freshman all-purpose player Cari Roccaro, who helped the United States capture the FIFA Under-20 Women’s World Cup title with a 1-0 triumph over Japan on Saturday. Waldrum said both players should be available to face Louisville on Friday. 
“It will depend on how much practice they get this week, but I expect them to play next weekend,” Waldrum said. 
Notre Dame will take on Louisville Friday at 4 p.m. at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


NDSMCOBSERvER.COM | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2012 | THE OBSERvER 


CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS  | LENNy RAGO &               PATRICK CROSS 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Michelle Williams, 32; Michael Buble, 37; Eric Stonestreet, 41; Hugh Grant, 52. 
Happy Birthday: Problems will develop if you promise something you cannot deliver, or ask for the impossible in return. you have to gauge your personal and professional life carefully so as not to overstep your bounds in either area of your life. It will take plenty of moderation and skillful response to balance your life this year. your numbers are 3, 8, 15, 27, 30, 33, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19):Consistency will count. you will face opposition if you change your plans midstream. Finish what needs to be done. Having peace of mind will make it easier for you to relax and enjoy socializing and sharing with someone special. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Graciously accept any help that is offered. Showing your vulnerability will enable you to weed out the good and the bad people in your life. Personal housecleaning will help declutter your life. Don’t let a poor relation­ship stand in your way. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Size down, eat less and most of all, keep your life simple and excess-free. Prepare for the week ahead. What you do now will help you get a head start on anyone trying to compete with you. Don’t share your secrets or meddle. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Spending time with friends or family will help to stimu­late your memory and give rebirth to some of the creative goals you never got to de­velop. A change in the way you approach your goals will lead to your success. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone you least expect will show interest in you. visiting familiar places will bring you in touch with people from your past, reminding you of goals. Take time to look your best or to make personal updates to your image. Love is highlighted. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a deep breath and stick to what you are sure you can count on. Take care of unfinished business so you can clear your schedule for pressing matters. Too much of anything, including promises, will lead to personal loss. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Use your time wisely and focus on whatever you need to do to advance. It may be the weekend, but networking or putting in extra time will pay off. Love is highlighted, and mixing business with pleasure will pay off. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):Pay attention to detail, especially if you are helping someone else or trying to make an impression. you don’t have to overspend, but you do have to do a good job. A change in your personal life or your style will bring mixed reviews. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A reserved approach when dealing with others will help you avoid trouble. Put more effort into your investments and securing your assets or building the value of your home. Love is in the stars, and a commitment can be made. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Revamp old goals to suit the current economic cli­mate. Don’t allow an emotional matter to spin out of control when all that’s required is a little understanding. Charity begins at home, so offer suggestions or hands-on help, but not a handout. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A change of pace or vocation will do you good. Con­sider what you enjoy doing most and turn it into a career option. Stick close to home to avoid overspending or being enticed by false advertising or a fast-talking sales pitch. Love is highlighted. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Diversify your creative skills. you have more to offer than you realize, and with a little organization you can turn something you love do­ing into a lucrative endeavor. Create a workspace at home that will help you pursue your goals. 

Birthday Baby: you are friendly, flirtatious and extreme. you are aggressive and broad-minded. 
JUMBLE | DAvID HOyT AND JEFF KNUREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  



THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

MEN’S SOCCER | ND 1, OREGON STATE 0 | ND 3, AKRON 1 
Irish topple ranked teams over weekend 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
No. 13 Notre Dame beat all comers to win the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament this weekend, topping Oregon State 1-0 on Friday despite wild weather, and winning a chippy and aggressive game on Sunday over No. 4 Akron, 3-1. 
Sunday’s game was a col­orful one, as both sides were issued two yellow cards and one straight red was issued to Akron junior midfielder Aodhan Quinn. Coming into the matchup, both the Irish (5-0-0) and the Zips (3-1-1) were undefeated. 
The Irish went down early when Zips senior midfield­er Scott Caldwell received a pass at the top of the 18-yard-box and put it by Irish junior keeper Patrick Wall in the fourth minute. In the 30th minute of the game, Quinn took down Irish sophomore midfielder Nick Besler with an elbow to Belser’s head away from the play. The referee issued a straight red card with no hesitation to Quinn. With a man advantage, Notre Dame immediately took control of the game. 
“Once they lost the player, that tilted the field in our favor,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “It was a state­ment win, but we will keep it in perspective. We were 1-0 down and then they get the red card. With a man up, I would be disappointed if we didn’t win. I would have been happier if we had won on a level playing field. 
“Having said that, [Akron] definitely brought that on themselves. [Akron] is a very good team and they move the ball as well as any team in the country. So it was a good test for us.” 
The Irish seemed passive in the first ,half,  Clark said, but they came out strong in the second and struck a hard-driven cross from quickly. In the 49th min-freshman midfielder Patrick ute, Irish junior forward Hodan and volleyed the ball Leon Brown connected with into the back of the net. 

 “It was a great goal by Leon Brown,” Clark said. 
see SHIPP PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | ND 1, PORTLAND 1 | WASHINGTON 3, ND 0 
Notre Dame splits contests 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
It was a tale of two games for Notre Dame this weekend, as the young Irish squad showed its inconsistency in a West Coast road trip that featured an encouraging tie followed by a deflating loss. 
The Irish (3-3-1) started their road trip with a 1-1 tie against No. 18 Portland on Friday, but experienced some first-half struggles en route to a 3-0 loss to No. 22 Washington two days later. 
“We took a couple of steps forward Friday and a couple of steps backwards Sunday,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “We have to put together a full 90 minutes of soccer.” 
In front of a packed crowd of 4,932 fans at Merlo Field in Portland, Ore., the Irish fell into an early hole, as Portland (4-1-1) freshman forward Rebekah Kurle scored off an uncleared free-kick 30 min­utes into the game. Notre Dame countered less than nine minutes later, as sopho­more defender Sammy Scofield drove home a header off a cor­ner kick by freshman forward Anna Maria Gilbertson. 
The Irish looked poised to take the lead at the end of the first half, but junior midfielder Elizabeth Tucker’s shot boomed off the inside of the post in the 41st minute. Notre Dame experienced a similar missed opportunity midway through the second half, as sophomore forward Lauren Bohaboy’s strong at­tempt from 22 yards out struck the underside of the crossbar. Buoyed by freshman goalie Elyse Hight’s nine saves, the Irish defense kept Portland at bay and 120 minutes of action resulted in a 1-1 tie. 

Waldrum said he was pleased with his team’s per­formance against the Pilots, a perennial power in women’s soccer. 
“We were really good against a good team in a tough place to play,” Waldrum said. “We handled pressure really well and played a really entertain­ing game that could have gone either way.” 
Notre Dame got off to a 
see WALDRUM PAGE 14 
ND VOLLEYBALL | USC TOURNAMENT 
Houser paces team in California 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Irish had a competi­tive weekend as they de­feated Cal Poly on Friday night and dropped two tough matches to No. 17 San Diego and No. 5 USC on Saturday at the USC Classic Tournament in Los Angeles. 
Notre Dame (5-4) came out strong against the Mustangs (1-7) and were led by sophomore opposite side hitter Jeni Houser’s 17 kills and junior tri­captain and setter Maggie Brindock’s 31 assists. It was Houser’s seventh double-digit kill performance of the season. Brindock also chipped in nine digs and six kills over the three sets. The Irish were dominant as they held Cal Poly to a .000 attack percentage over the last two sets, and the win extended theNotre Dame’s team’s unbeaten streak to four games. 
After their stellar per­formance against the Mustangs, the Irish turned their attention to two top­20 opponents. While both matches were competi­tive, they fell short against both the Toreros (5-2) and the Trojans (9-0). Junior captain and right-side hit­ter Andrea McHugh said the squad was not happy with the outcome of these matches. 
“Overall, coaches and teammates included, we were pretty dissatisfied with the outcome of this tournament this weekend,” McHugh said. “We didn’t just come to Southern California to beat Cal Poly 
— We came to beat top-20 teams. It’s a good sign that we can hang with top-20 teams, but that’s not our goal. Our goal is to beat highly-ranked teams and most importantly get that [win].” 
The loss to San Diego snapped Notre Dame’s win streak, which had been its longest since September 2011. The Irish played the Toreros tough, forcing a de­cisive fifth set for the first time this season. McHugh said playing a match 

see MCHUGH PAGE 13 



