
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Nobel Prize-winning scholar shares discoveries 
Physicist discusses analysis of cosmological light spectra, research on acceleration, expansion of universe 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
To the average person, the mind-boggling size and expansion of the universe can be more than difficult to grasp. 
But for Nobel Prize-winning physicist Brian Schmidt, thinking over the biggest of questions about the existence of the universe is all in a day’s work. 
Schmidt, a distinguished pro­fessor at the Australian National University who was awarded the 2011 Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on the acceleration of the universe, spoke about his team’s discoveries to a packed house in the Jordan Hall of Science on Mon­day in his lecture, “The Accelerat­ing Universe.” 
The 1998 discovery that earned Schmidt and his colleagues Adam Riess and Saul Perlmutter world­wide recognition occurred when two teams of physicists used ad­vanced telescopes to take images of faraway objects, such as super­novae, effectively allowing them to look back millions of years into the universe’s history. 
Notre Dame physics professor Peter Garnavich was part of the same research team and was in­vited to attend the Nobel Prize award ceremony in Stockholm, Sweden, in December to support 


see NOBEL/page 5 


MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer 

Nobel Prize-winning physicist Brian Schmidt explains his research to a crowd in the Jordan Hall of Science on Monday. Schmidt’s work focuses on the acceleration of the universe. 


Howard Hall celebrates Lent with Chapel Crawl 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
For many students, Sunday night Mass in their dorms has become tradition. 
But the Howard Hall Chapel Crawl encourages students from across campus to come together in celebration of the Lenten sea­son. 
Junior Sarah Scrafford, litur­gical commissioner for Howard Hall, led the planning efforts for this year’s Chapel Crawl. 
“It’s really fun getting to meet all the different rectors and peo­ple all around campus,” she said. 
The 2012 Howard Hall Chapel Crawl includes 30 Masses and prayer services that will take place in chapels all over campus. The event kicked off Feb. 20 and will last until April 12. 
Howard held the Chapel Crawl for the first time last year, but Scrafford said this year’s Crawl is more directly connected with the Lenten season. 
“Last year we did it pretty much continuously Monday through Sunday, 40 days straight, [but] it didn’t coincide exactly with Lent,” Scrafford said. “We really wanted to do it as more of a Lent­en devotion.” 
Scrafford said the event was created and spearheaded last year by former Howard Hall president, senior Mary Ellen Ke­


see CHAPEL/page 5 

Group to premiere advocacy video 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
The 4 to 5 Movement will pre­mier a new video tonight called “It Needs to Get Better,” which gives suggestions for creating an environment of inclusion on campus for lesbian, gay, bisexu­al, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) students. 
The video is based on the “It Gets Better Project,” a campaign to prevent suicide in LGBTQ youth. The campaign’s website, itgetsbetter.org, provides per­sonal videos to prove life will get better for them after high school, said sophomore Dani Gies, a member of the 4 to 5 Movement who appears in the video. 
Gies said the goal of the 4 to 5 movement, which is a Progres­sive Student Alliance (PSA) ini­tiative, is to encourage the Uni­versity to make greater strides toward inclusion. 
“We feel that part of our Catho­lic identity is to create a welcom­ing and warm environment for all members of the community,” Gies said. 
Senior Jackie Emmanuel, co-president of the PSA, said college life can be just as difficult as high school for some LGBTQ students. 
“Sometimes even college at­mospheres don’t have structures in place to protect LGBT students in the ways that they need to,” Emmanuel said. 
Gies said the 4 to 5 Movement’s video features many different members of the Notre Dame community, each of them ex­plaining ways in which the Uni­versity can change to promote inclusion. 

“[The video is] addressing the University at large, telling them what the current campus atmo­sphere is, what the current cam­pus policy is, and how that policy needs to change in particular ways in order for certain groups to actually feel like they’re a part of Notre Dame,” Emmanuel said. 
The video advocates for a gay-straight alliance on campus and an amendment to the non­discrimination clause to protect LGBTQ students and faculty, Emmanuel said. 
Student Senate recently passed resolutions in favor of both addi­tions, and Emmanuel said she hopes the video will alert the ad­ministration of student support for these measures. 
“We’re hoping that [the video] 


see ADVOCACY/page 5 


Expert lectures on dating, relationships 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Boston College “date doc­tor” Kelly Cronin asked Notre Dame students last night to risk breaking their hearts. 
Cronin gave a lecture at Leg­ends sponsored by the Gender Relations Center (GRC) titled “Notre Dating: The Lost Art of Friendship and Romance.” She said the hookup culture has become pervasive at most American universities. 
College students, Cronin said, often respond to pres­sures largely by substituting intensity for more personally intimate experiences. 
“It’s crazy that a casual thing can be taking your clothes off in front of some­one, but that asking someone on a date is this super formal thing,” she said. 
Cronin is a doctoral can­didate in the Lynch School of Education at Boston College. She is also associate direc­tor of the Lonergan Institute and a faculty fellow in Boston College’s Center for Student Formation. Cronin is a nation­ally known speaker on college campuses. 
Cronin said current academ­ic studies of the relationship 


see DATING/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Workshop addresses assault page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Fashion Police: Oscars edition page 8 u Men’s basketball falls to Georgetown page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, February 28, 2012 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: FINISH THE SENTENCE. “SO THIS IS CRAZY BUT...” 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 


Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Erin Jenkins  Thomas Graft  Gwen Hooley  Anthony Cossell  Leon Brown  Connor Miller  
sophomore Lewis  sophomore Dillon  sophomore Pasquerilla East  junior Alumni  sophomore Morrissey  sophomore Carroll  
“So here’s my number, so call  “I hope you find your dad.”  “But don’t call me.”  “Satisfying”  “I’ve never been in the mountain  “I have two middle names.”  
me maybe.”  time zone.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Sara Felsenstein Marisa Iati Adam Llorens 

Graphics 
Lauren Kalinoski 

Photo 
Tom La 

Sports 
Jack Hefferon Katie Heit Conor Kelly 

Scene 
Maija Gustin 

Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 



OFFBEAT 

Dog causes crash, shuts down New Mexico freeway 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — A dog running into traffic on a busy New Mexico freeway caused a chain reaction that led to a fiery crash involving a semi full of frozen meat that shut down part of the road and backed up traffic for nearly four hours, authorities said. 
The crash happened Sun­day on Interstate 40 in Albu­querque, KOB-TV reported. 
Police said a man driving on the freeway saw a dog darting into traffic and pulled over. The man got out of his car to help the animal, and a female driver saw him on the road and slammed on her brakes. 
A semi tractor-trailer haul­ing 36,000 pounds of frozen 

LOCAL WEATHER 
meat then slammed into the woman’s vehicle and started on fire. 
Police said the semi burst into flames almost instant­ly — sending up a plume of black smoke visible across the city — but the driver was able to escape uninjured. The woman and other man were also OK, but the dog died. 
Fire crews arrived and quickly doused the engulfed semi. However, a portion of westbound I-40 had to be shut down so crews could clean up debris and some die­sel fuel that leaked from the truck. 
Mysterious hot tub installed on campus roof 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. — Offi­cials are puzzled over a mys­terious hot tub that was in­stalled — and then removed 
— from the roof of a building on the University of Michigan campus in Ann Arbor. 
But a group of “creative” students are believed to be the culprits, Computer Sci­ence and Engineering build­ing spokesman Steven Crang told AnnArbor.com on Friday. 
Initially reported by the Michigan Daily campus news­paper, the hot tub first was noticed Saturday, had visi­tors and was gone by Monday night. 
“People were kind of flab­bergasted,” Crang said. “It was obviously unexpected. It was pretty creative and now it’s gone. It left a buzz in its wake.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Michael Flanagan, Su­perintendent of Public In­struction for the state of Michigan, will deliver an address titled “Educa­tion Reform-mongering: A Practitioner’s Perspec­tive” at Remick Rommons in Carole Sandner Hall from 9 to 10 a.m. today. The event is part of the Notre Dame Forum series on re-imagining K-12 edu­cation. 
Photographer Pablo Del­ano will discuss his book “Imagining Trinidad: The Photographs of Pablo Del­ano” at the Hesburgh Cen­ter Auditorium from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. today. 
The semifinals of the 82nd annual Bengal Bouts boxing tournament will be held from 6 to 8:30 p.m. today at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The finals will be held at 7 p.m. on Satur­day at Purcell Pavilion. 
Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the Denny Moore Award for Excellence in Jour­nalism, named after the University’s late Associate Vice President for Pub­lic Affairs. Candidates must be seniors and may be nominated by faculty, staff or fellow students. The deadline is Friday. 
A knockout tournament, which is projected to set a world record, will take place in the Joyce Center immediately following the men’s basketball game Friday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 












CORRECTIONS 
An article in the Feb. 22 edition of The Observer incorrectly stated which students will take over the treasurer and secretary positions of Sophomore Class Council. Andrea Palm will be the new Sophomore Class Council treasurer, and Emily Voorde will be the new secretary. The Observer regrets this error. 

HIGH 39 LOW 36 
Tuesday, February 28, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Workshop addresses assault 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
For the second year in a row, Saint Mary’s College hosted a workshop to inform students about the various procedures victims undergo in the nurse for four years, said the process for attaining a SANE accreditation requires exten­sive training, classroom hours and testing. 
“Getting your SANE certifi­cation is a lot like taking board 
hospi ­
“About 30 years ago, if you 
tal af­
were a victim of sexual assault, 
ter sur­
you didn’t receive good help.” 
vivi ng 
sexual 
assault. Francie Henley The nurse 
work-Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center 
shop, whi ch was spon­sored by the Saint Mary’s Belles Against Violence Office (BAVO) and the Student Nurs­ing Association (SNA), fea­tured Francie Henley and Car­rie Higgins, two nurses from the Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center. 
Henley, who has been a nurse for 31 years, said vic­tims now receive structured testing — but it was not al­ways that regulated. 
“About 30 years ago, if you were a victim of sexual as­sault, you didn’t receive good help,” she said. “You had to wait a long time to see some­one and get help. Nurses, be­ing the caring people that we are, decided to do something about it.” 
Henley and Higgins are both trained as Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners (SANE) and work in the emergency room at Saint Joseph Regional Med­ical Center to conduct medical and forensic exams on victims of sexual assault. 
Higgins, who has been a said they also act as legal ex­perts, advocates and support systems for patients. 
“You have to have a special 
personality to be a SANE; not every­one can do it,” she said. “You need a soft heart for the vic­tim and have to be willing to stand up and fight for them.” 
Monday ’s presentation also provided a brief dem­onstration of exams,” Higgins said. 
Though SANEs are re­sponsible for col­le cti ng forensic evidence and ob­taining facts, Higgins 
what exactly happens when a victim undergoes a kit for sex­ual assault. 
Henley said the process takes three to four hours, and includes blood draws, swabs, taking photographs and col­lecting other forms of evi­dence. 

Higgins said this routine is so lengthy because it requires great attention to detail. 
“When we do a sexual as­sault kit, it is very precise and discreet,” she said. “It is a step by step process that [SANEs] take very seriously.” 
Connie Adams, assistant di­rector for BAVO, said she hopes the event will be a learning experience for attendees. 
“While BAVO’s ultimate aim is to reduce violence through prevention programming, the reality of violence [is that it] exists,” she said. “Providing education to women provides options. While attendees may not personally need the infor­mation, it can be invaluable to share with a friend or family member.” 
Adams said she hopes stu­dents will take the opportu­nity to educate themselves on 
“Providing education to women provides options. While attendees may not personally need the information, it can be invaluable to share with a friend or family member.” 
Connie Adams assistant director Belles Against Violence Office 
the number of options offered to victims, by Saint Joseph Regi onal Medical Cen­ter, Saint Mary’s BAVO and other hospitals. 
“It is im­portant for Saint Mary’s women to know the resou rces av ail abl e 

to them and have accurate knowledge of the types of services offered,” she said. “Women have the right to know what to expect and how to seek support.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 


CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Members review hate crimes, discuss solutions 

By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Members of Campus Life Council (CLC) discussed the two recent instances of hate crime on campus and how to 
best address them  as a com­ 
munity.  
Brittany  Suggs,  chairman  

of the Black Students Associa­tion (BSA), said she discovered fried chicken in the BSA mail­box on Feb. 20, and the Afri­can Student Association found chicken patties in their mail­box on Feb. 14. 
“People are upset. Some have expressed sheer disgust with the issue,” Suggs said. “It’s time for the campus com­munity to come together and discuss how to proceed on this matter.” 
Suggs said the BSA will hold a town hall meeting on March 5 at 8 p.m. in Geddes Hall. 
Together, those who attend will create a timeline with con­crete plans to address negative attitudes and behaviors on campus, she said. 
“I hope after this meeting and the timeline is carefully constructed, we can email the proposed ideas out to the stu­dent body,” Suggs said. “This makes us accountable because we said we would do this.” 
Suggs said she also is advo­cating for students to file re­ports when hate crimes occur. 
“A paper trail is a good way to push the administration to deal with this matter,” she said. “Other cases of discrimi­natory harassment are undoc­umented.” 
Diversity Council repre­sentative Alexa Arastoo said documentation of hate crimes is essential for the administra­tion to make progress on the issue. 
“The administration re­quires numbers and facts, and even if there’s a lot of support behind it, they need more,” Arastoo said. “I’d like to think it could be done more easily, but it’s a tough process. You’ve seen with [proposals for the Gay Straight Alliance] alone, they’ve had over a dozen years behind that and no changes.” 
Iris Outlaw, director of Mul­ticultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS), said stu­dents can now file reports on-line at dulac.nd.edu. 
“What we are really trying to do is educate students on how simple the process is,” Outlaw said. “It’s important for issues such as this and sexual harass­ment to be noted officially.” 
Outlaw said students need to know the University will not tolerate these acts. 
“It may not change attitude, but it will certainly change be­havior,” she said. 
Suggs said another possible way to educate students could be to require students to take a semester-long cultural con­fidence class. The class would facilitate discussion between students on race and different cultures, she said. 
“Personally, I’m a [psychol­ogy] major and don’t reference philosophy on a daily basis, which we’re required to take,” she said. “But I do reference how I react to my peers and different cultures every day.” 
Arastoo said the class could provide students with funda­mental education on racism and respect. She said the infor­mation given in Contemporary Topics classes is not sufficient for some people. 
“For some people [in Con­temporary Topics] the infor­mation isn’t even in one ear and out the other. It doesn’t even go through the ear at all,” she said. “It’s hard to do these educational things because ev­eryone needs to be schooled on race at first.” 
Suggs said students need to voice their opinions on the matter. 
“It’s up to us to not forget, as much as it is for the adminis­tration to follow through,” she said. “If it’s important to the campus, then that push, that drive will be there.” 
She said if students have ideas, suggestions or a desire to be more involved, they are welcome to contact her. 
After closing the discussion on the recent hate crimes, members of the CLC discussed progress made in developing the Leprechaun Legion. 
Student body president Pat McCormick said the goal be­hind expanding the Lepre­chaun Legion is twofold. 
“First we want to make sure there’s an institutionalized way for students to communi­cate with Athletics Department for the experience, ticketing and pep rallies that come up year to year,” McCormick said. 
The second goal, he said, is to address the concerns of stu­dent athletes. 
“Student athletes represent 9 percent of the student popu­lation, and in a recent survey, they did not feel like student government was a vehicle where they could have their concerns taken into consider­ation,” he said. 
McCormick said he hoped the legion could ultimately deepen the relationships between ath­letes, fans and administrators. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Tuesday, February 28, 2012 


Dating 
continued from page 1 
between college students and sexuality falls far short of the reality that she has learned through talks with students. 
She said the reality is the modern student is very un­likely to “date.” 
“There is only a small sliver of people who do this thing called ‘dating,’” she said. 
Cronin said the rest of the population pursues various levels of intimacy, ranging from the nonexistent intimacy of a casual hookup to an ex­tremely serious relationship. Cronin said that general con­clusions could be drawn about college dating life. 
“At [Boston College], I found about 23 percent were involved in what I call ‘pseudo-married couples,’” Cronin said.  “Pseu­do-married couples have a problem because people hate them.  People hate them be­cause they’re so … happy.” 
But Cronin said some of these couples are secretly afraid their relationships have progressed too quickly. 
“These people are often stuck in relationships or hid­ing out in relationships and are afraid that maybe their rules are unwritten. 
She said “hooking up” means completely different things to different people. 
Cronin said this hookup cul­ture’s biggest problem is it in­stills exactly the wrong habits in students, degrades their sexuality and creates a harsh­ly aggressive culture. 
She challenged students at the talk to ask someone out who genuinely interested him or her before spring break, but acknowledged the process is difficult. 
“I have great hope that you guys can fix this,” Cronin said.  “I’m asking you to try, just try.” 
Dr. G David Moss, interim director of the Gender Rela­tions Center and assistant vice president of Student Af­fairs, said the Center wanted to address the lack of knowl­edge about dating and how to improve awareness. 
“I think that in many ways our students have lost the knowledge of what dating is … We want to give them a re­newed understanding of what dating is and how dating can be done,” Moss said. 
Students appreciated Cro­nin’s candor and humor. 
Sophomore Stephen Zerfas said the number one reason 
he attended 
the lecture 


friends are “I think that in many ways was to get right . they’re the com-
our students have lost the 
not fun after plimentary 
knowledge of what dating 
all,” Cronin Starbucks 
is ... We want to give them 
said. “[These voucher. 
a renewed understanding 
are people] “[But] I
of what dating is and how 
who are sus-also was picious that dating can be done.” excited to the relation-come and ship that Dr. G David Moss hear about they’re in is how to date 
interim director 
maybe a little and have 
Gender Relations Center 
further than they should be at that stage of their life.” 
Cronin said the hookup cul­ture is another characteristic of the college population. A strong trend during fresh­men year, she said it generally fades somewhat in subsequent years.  
“High freshman year, [hook­ing up] settles down the sec­ond year,” Cronin said.  “How­ever, juniors … [go] abroad and they say, ‘I’m going to go hook up in Scotland. I need hooking up with an accent.’” 
A further portion of the pop­ulation “opts out” of the cul­ture entirely, she said. 
The problem, she said, is the hookup culture is so pervasive it dominates the social scene at American universities. 
“It’s not that everyone’s in­volved in it … But it’s the thing that gets talked about,” she said. 
Though the culture has very strict rules, Cronin said those healthy re­
lationships despite how counter cultural dating currently is,” he said. 
Sophomore Lissa Stolte agreed. 
“Professor Cronin’s discus­sion of dating and the hookup culture was fun, hilarious and impressively accurate,” she said. “I also really liked hear­ing her tell stories about her students at Boston College — it was nice to have concrete examples of people who obvi­ously felt as awkward about dating as a lot of Notre Dame students evidently do.” 
Cronin said ultimately stu­dents must be courageous, but not fearless, when entering the dating scene. 
“You can fix this by dating people without it becoming su­per intense, to show care and concern and to be open to the beginnings of love,” she said. 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 

Former gang member shares story 
By CHRISTIN KLOSKI Gaines’ life, he added. News Writer During his younger years, 
Gaines said he lived a life of 

Saint Mary’s Student Gov-corruption and was sent to ernment Association (SGA) prison 15 times. kicked off its “Proud Past, His participation in gang Promising Future” leader-life destroyed his teen years ship series with speaker up to his young adulthood, Chad Gaines on Monday and he was sent to prison for night. gang involvement, he said. 
Gaines, who is a profes-But one day, he knew he sional speaker and a 2004 had to change. winner of the Ten Outstand-“One morning at 4 a.m., ing Young Americans Award, I woke up to the bells of was a for-the court mer gang house and member, has thought, ‘I
“One morning at 4 a.m., I 
overc ome do not want 
drug and woke up to the bells of the to live my 
alcohol ad-court house and thought, life like this dictions and ‘I do not want to live my anymore,’” survived life like this anymore.’” Gaines said. two car ac-“I asked cidents. God if He is 
Chad Gaines 
“I was real, then 
professional speaker 
physically I would do 
abused, ad­dicted to cocaine, stabbed, shot in the face and survived cars accidents,” he said. “But God had a plan for me.” 
The Ten Outstanding Young Americans Award is given annually by the United States Junior Chamber to ten Americans between 18 and 40 years of age who “ex­emplify the best attributes of the nation’s young people.” 
Gaines has spoken to thou­sands of students around the country to help inspire them to start off new lives. 
“There are four parts of change that you need to be­come a leader,” Gaines said. 
“They are what you hear, what you see, what you read and who you hang out with.” 
Negative influences of peers, as well as an unsta­ble family, greatly affected whatever 
He needs 
me to do to live a better life.” 
After being released from prison at age 26, Gaines said the first thing he did was go to a Goodwill outlet, buy a $15 suit and go to church. 
He said that when he en­tered, the entire church stared back at him. 
“Half of those people in the church I had terrorized in some way,” Gaines said. 
Gaines had never been to church before that day. The pastor noticed his arrival and called Gaines to the front to give a speech about his life. 
Gaines said he spoke about his struggles and his search to find a better life. 
After his speech at the church, Gaines was asked to speak at Notre Dame. Weeks later after visiting Notre Dame, Gaines said he received hundreds of emails from other colleges asking for him to visit, he said. 
“Going out and speak­ing changed me, but I took everything for granted,” he said. “I did not give any glory to God. If you do not humble yourself, God will humble you.” 
But Gaines said only weeks after he was finally finan­cially stable again, he went back to prison. 
While in prison this time, Gaines had a stroke, was left by his wife and son and lost all of his money. 
When he was released, he said he wanted to start over. Gaines moved to Warsaw, Ind., and worked to provide food and a roof over his head. 
After taking on various jobs, Gaines said he realized God had a plan for him: Keep speaking to more and more schools across the nation. 
“By putting God first, I learned where I needed to be,” he said. 
Gaines now works to help students find their way even while they struggle with personal issues. He said it is important that students find a person who they feel com­fortable around. He added teachers should relate more to their students. 
“Think about your choices, because they can so eas­ily change your life,” Gaines said. “Think about who your peers are to see if they are leading you to make good or bad choices. Mistakes of the past do not equal the fu­ture.” 
Contact Christin Kloski at cklosk01@saintmarys.edu 

Tuesday, February 28, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 

Advocacy 
continued from page 1 
will support Student Senate’s res­olutions … and then hopefully it will inspire the rest of campus to follow suit,” she said. 
Undergraduate students, law students, faculty and staff appear in the video, Gies said. 
Emmanuel, professors Peter Holland and Pamela Wojcik of the Film, Television and Theatre Department, law student Steve Baugh, and sophomore Alex Coc­cia, also co-president of PSA, are included. 
“All of them volunteered to be a part of the video because they felt that putting a face to what we were saying was really important and all of them wanted their voic­es represented,” Gies said. 
She said the video’s message is powerful because it presents such a variety of perspectives from the Notre Dame community. 
“We feel that more can be done,” she said. “We’re ready to take a stand on not only a cam­pus-wide level, but on a national level. Having people’s faces repre­senting the movement, represent­ing all different members of the community in this video was re­ally crucial.” 
Gies said Senate’s resolutions have paved the way for the 4 to 5 Movement to continue advocating for the rights of LGBTQ students. 
“We’ve been gaining momen­tum as of late with the Student Senate passing resolutions on the gay-straight alliance and the non­discrimination clause,” she said. “[The video] is another way to show we’re not going away. We’re looking forward to effecting more change and to things getting bet­ter.”
 “It Needs to Get Better” pre­mieres tonight at 9:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center’s Mont­gomery Auditorium. 
Gies said the video will also be posted on the 4 to 5 Movement’s Facebook page and the group’s website, 4to5movement.org. 
Contact Tori Roeck at                       vroeck@nd.edu 
Nobel 
continued from page 1 
fellow members of his team who won the prize. 
Schmidt’s team collected cos­mological data from 15 such objects and analyzed the light spectra of each object to “see how much the universe is stretching,” which in turn allowed the team to conclude after several months that the universe accelerates and expands and will continue to do so for billions of years to come, he said. 
“[Finding supernovae] was like sifting for a needle in a haystack because these type 1a supernovae only appear about once every 250 years,” he said. “We found super­novae by taking two images at dif­ferent times and comparing them, enabling us to do an experiment [Edwin] Hubble did and look back 10 million years into the past.” 
Schmidt said both his High-Z Supernova Search Team and Perl­mutter’s Supernova Cosmology Project drew on the principles of Hubble’s 1929 experiment that used a telescope to compare the brightest star in our galaxy with the brightest star in another gal­axy in order to demonstrate the relationship between a star’s brightness, the motion of its gal­axy and its relative distance from Earth, which provided the first evidence of the expansion of the universe. 
Schmidt said Hubble’s theory was supported by Einstein’s “real big hit” of scientific theories . the idea that gravity and acceleration are indistinguishable in space. 
“Einstein had to predict a lot of things to prove this idea, and it took him eight years to do it, but he just thought it must be true,” he said. “The idea changed our fundamental view of how the uni­verse works because it allowed us to make predictions about the uni­verse on its whole.” 
Some current predictions about the universe based on Einstein’s theory of gravity include the im­pact of the relatively unknown phenomena of dark matter and dark energy, the latter of which Einstein himself conceptualized by inventing the cosmological con­stant in 1917, Schmidt said. 
Though this theory led Einstein to commit his “greatest blunder” in predicting that gravity pushes, rather than pulls, the universe, Schmidt said the idea of dark mat­ter led to later discoveries about the makeup of the universe and what causes its acceleration and expansion. 
“The universe must be a mix of normal gravitating matter and material that can push on the uni­verse, or dark energy,” Schmidt said. “It was like saying, ‘Hey guys, we didn’t know about 70 percent of the stuff in the universe, and that stuff [dark energy] pushes on the whole universe.’” 
Schmidt said much of his team’s prize-winning work depended on several experiments measuring the positions of different galaxies, the total gravity of the universe and the amount of “stuff” con­tained within it. 
Based on data collected from analysis of the Cosmic Microwave Background, a picture of the uni­verse that shows “all the sound waves sloshing around” in it, sci­entists determined the relative makeup of the universe by sub­stance. 
“[This experiment] enables you to measure the geometry of space directly, and it was first done in 2001,” Schmidt said. “It was de­termined that one percent of the universe is flat, and the universe is composed of 72 percent dark energy, 24 percent dark matter and four percent atoms.” 
This model of universal compo­sition has predicted almost every cosmological phenomenon “on the money,” Schmidt said, and a major focus of cosmology today is pre­dicting the future of the universe, especially in terms of dark matter and dark energy. 
“There’s a battle between dark energy and dark matter, or the push and pull on the universe,” Schmidt said. “The big question in physics now is whether or not this [dark] energy gets created ex­actly with space, or a little slower or faster.” 
Schmidt explained the theoreti­cal effects of the creation of dark energy in relation to the universe’s expansion as a “battle of the uni­verse.” 
“If dark energy is created exact­ly as space is created, dark energy wins the battle of the universe, the cosmos accelerate and the creation of space happens more quickly than even light can trav­el,” he said. “As the universe ex­pands, the light emitted by those galaxies will never reach us, and eventually we will live in an empty universe except for our super gal­axy.” 
The key to predicting the future of the universe lies in discovering and understanding what acceler­ates the cosmos, Schmidt said. 
“Until we understand what dark energy is or what accelerates the cosmos, anything is possible,” he said. “If dark energy is created more quickly than space itself, it will eventually accelerate every­thing down to the subatomic level to where everything is an infinite distance apart, and the universe will expand and fade away at an ever-increasing rate.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at      kdurbin@nd.edu 
Chapel 
continued from page 1 
neally. 
“She thought of it just a couple weeks before we decided to do it, so it was a little bit harder to coordinate the schedule,” Scraf­ford said. “[But] the first day [last year] we had the opening Mass in Howard, and there were so many people it was almost uncomfort­able in the chapel.” 
She said attendance at the Masses this year has been strong. 
“I think so far there are about three or four girls last year that have made all of the Masses,” Scrafford said. “There are [usu­ally] about 15 to 20 people that come and it’s probably a different group every night.” 
Scrafford said Howard decided not to hold Chapel Crawl Masses Saturdays or Sundays this year because it was difficult for the community of Howard to have some students attend dorm Mass each Sunday and some follow The Crawl. 
Senior Melissa Cheng attended last night’s candlelight prayer service in the Lewis Lucenarium. She said she enjoyed attending a service with students from differ­ent dorms. 
“I think [The Crawl] is a great idea,” Cheng said. “I think that a lot of people have wanted to go to different chapels but haven’t had the opportunity to … So I think this is a good time.” 
Junior Jon Schommer partici­pated in Howard’s Chapel Crawl last year and said he plans to at­tend more Masses this year. 
“Last year [I] made it to a good number of Masses,” Schommer said. “I actually went to Lyons Mass for the first time because of the Crawl. I really liked the Lyons chapel, so since then I’ve been going to Mass there regularly on Wednesdays.” 
Schommer said he is especial­ly looking forward to the Social Justice Stations of the Cross that will be held at 3 p.m. on Friday in Geddes Hall. 
“As with any Mass, getting to be in communion with Christ is really awesome, but doing it in a community of great people makes it all the better,” he said. “I like how they have other spiri­tual events as a part of The Crawl too.” 
Schommer added The Crawl is a great way to “center ourselves during Lent.” 
“Sometimes it can be hard to focus on our spiritual lives with our busy schedules, so having a community to encourage me to go to Mass or go to a prayer is really helpful for remembering what is really important,” he said. 
Scrafford said Howard hopes to make the Chapel Crawl a sig­nature event that will continue to grow and expand each year. 
“It’s really fun seeing how dif­ferent dorms involve the people in their hall and their community in different traditions,” she said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at                     sfelsens@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, February 28, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Don’t regret,laugh it off 
Laughter is the best medicine. If there’s one thing I have learned my senior year, it’s that. While laughter won’t heal all wounds — it can’t physically heal a stress fracture, unfortunately — it really helps dealing with situ­ations of all kinds, whether tear-induc­ing, blush-causing, soul-crushing or some combination of the three. 
In life, there are situations we can’t change. We’ve done things that may not have been our proud-Mary Claire est moments. We’ve O’Donnell looked like a fool in front of people we Scene Writer wanted to impress. We’ve said things that we immediately wished we hadn’t. We’ve stayed silent when we wished we had spoken. 

When these situations arise, it’s easy to regret the situation entirely. Wittier words could’ve been said. Different ac­tions could’ve been taken. Chairs could not have been run into or tripped over. As we think over our actions and words, en­visioning them going differently, we can get angry, especially at ourselves. Regret seeps into our brains. 
But regret is just forcing yourself to simmer in negative emotion. Once some­thing is done, it’s done, and all you can do is move forward. (Thanks to my friend Malia for those words of wisdom.) 
You only live once, so don’t spend it in regret. Laugh at yourself and laugh off the situation. 
Laughing says you aren’t letting a situation get the best of you. It’s sticking it to the man. You did something really embarrassing at a dorm party last Friday night? Now you’ve got a funny story for Saturday morning brunch with your friends. And chances are no one remem­bers or saw anyway. Your laughter will help remind you of the overall unimpor­tance of whatever you did and help you forget your moment of stupidity. Fixat­ing on your actions and ruing them just keeps them in the forefront of your mind, ready to ruin another day. 
Laughing may not heal physical wounds, but it sure makes dealing with that wound easier. Only time heals stress fractures, but laughing at the vision of me limping around campus, at bars and in interviews forced me not to dwell on the things I couldn’t do while wearing a walking boot. 
And you know what? It took some of my friends a week to realize I was wearing a boot. Those who did realize quickly didn’t notice instantly. I had built the boot up to be this demon, and I hated myself for deciding to try to run the Holy Half. Now it’s a funny story. Yeah, I was that girl in a Velcro boot at Finni’s for four weeks. What of it? It worked because I worked it and I didn’t let it ruin my life. 
So laugh. Laugh because life is short. Laugh because regret is too easy. Laugh because funny stories are the ones that you remember 25 years later. Laugh be­cause it’ll make you smile, and a smile is always more attractive than a frown. 
And if someone tries to make you regret something you did or said, re­member that only you can do that. Then respond with more words of wisdom, this time from my friend Maisie. 
Imma do me. Haters fall back. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at       modonne5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The shoes of our lives 
We get up on our feet, look ahead in front of us and take a giant leap forward in our lives. Slip on shoes, tie the laces, walk forward. It’s such a simple daily ritual that we don’t even think about it, but the ways in which we move Marc Anthony in the world tell a Rosa compelling story of how we grow as Bro Meets people. World 
And grow I did. When my feet were small and bare, you once watched me sprint from room to room and trip and fall every few feet. What seems like seconds later, you watched as my feet kicked in excitement as you laced on my first pair of Power Ranger school shoes. Just a few mo­ments later, you helped buckle my first pair of inline skates, knowing full well that I would come back with scrapes and bruises everywhere. 
But let’s not kid ourselves here. The son that you recognize today throws on non-matching socks, shoves his feet into winter boots and moves into a full-on sprint through the quad to get to class on time. And yet, other days, you’ll find me stepping barefoot over empty beer cans, road signs that definitely weren’t stolen and other things that aren’t ex­actly scholarly. 
The journey of our lives has taken all of us to so many different places. But this journey is mixed with just as many somber realities as it is with happy memoirs, a balance of life that you know all too well. If you look closely, the dress shoes in my closet are faintly marked with tears, having borne the weight of a boy who inexplicably found himself walking to a friend’s funeral just a year ago. Those same dress shoes are scuffed up in frustration and doubt, abraded by 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
truths of life that a son discovers when taking giant leaps and landing on rejec­tion. 
The journey of our lives leads us through both dark ditches and lighted highways, where the end result is a well-worn yet well-prepared set of feet. And good, bad or indifferent, these feet are growing much bigger, moving much faster and strolling much farther away than for what you’re ready. In just a few months, my shoes will be laced by a black graduation gown and will take slow, confident strides towards a podium right before leaping into the air. What seem to be only minutes later, all of the shoes that I own will be thrown into cheap cardboard boxes with the words “New home” etched on it, adorned with a shipping address unfamiliar. 
You’ll soon find me strolling around in a strange new city not known for its safe neighborhoods, walking with coworkers whose names you’ll never quite remem­ber. And you’ll meet a pair of Stilettos that seem to match perfectly with my shoes, with one of the heels gracefully lifted up in the air during a kiss in true Hollywood fashion. The pitter-patter of my Power Ranger shoes running at you seems but a distant memory, a moment in time that is all-too-quickly replaced by a stroll that is confident, collected and accompanied. 
The truth of the matter is that every­thing is about to be very different for all of us. These are the realities of life, where the words “graduation,” “career” and “dating” are concepts that suddenly have real weight to them. There will be moments when you won’t be able to be there in ways you once were, when most of life’s problems were solved with a mother’s touch, a soothing voice and a giant hug. 
But no matter how different post-graduation life may be, there is one reality that will always stay the same: How we choose to handle life is very much like how we handle our shoes. We can choose to run away in times of trep­idation, trip on ourselves in the process and move forward with clumsy, limited strides. Or, we can lace up those shoes, tie them tightly and walk forward with confidence. Even though we may still trip and fall anyway, it isn’t the shoes themselves that define the journey; it’s the other pairs of shoes that walk along­side us, pick us up and make the journey something worth treading. 
Luckily for me, there has always been a pair of shoes walking next to me the entire time. No matter how many times I’ve fallen, there has always been one person who was right there to pick me up and dust me off. And no matter how difficult the upcoming path will be, there will always be one person to whom I’ll look for help. Even though our individual paths will soon diverge faster than you wish, with one of them far more exciting than the other, I will for­ever look to my side and feel solace that your pair will be right next to mine. 
Each day, we get up on our feet, look ahead in front of us and take a giant leap forward in our lives. 
And leap I will. 
Thank you for always being there for me. I couldn’t have made it this far without you. 
Marc Anthony Rosa is a senior man­agement entrepreneurship major. He can be reached at mrosa@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Some prices are just too high, no matter how much you may want the prize. The one thing you can’t trade for your heart’s desire is your heart.” 
Lois McMaster Bujold 
U.S. author 

WEEKLY POLL 
What was the best part of the Oscars? 
The dresses The speeches Betting on the winners Billy Crystal 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Tuesday, February 28, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Duh. Pinning. 
Toward the end of January 2012, a web service designed after the bul­letin board exploded after spending two years in relative obscurity. By February, every major news outlet was talking about Pinterest and its Blake J. Graham meteoric rise to success. Erudite 
Pinterest and Techno-Lust the act of “pin­ning” isn’t anything more than a glori­fied method of bookmarking content from the Internet and assigning it to specific categories. The “Pin It” button is at the heart of the entire service. Selecting the “Pin It” button on a web page allows you to sort through the images from the page you’re linking from, select your favorite one and drop it into a clean and aesthetically con­trolled board. The result is collections of images grouped together in loose themes: cats, couples holding hands, high-art cupcakes, ideal wedding dresses, French press cozies (a per­sonal favorite), etc. Oh, and did I fail to mention that 97 percent of Pinter­est’s users are women? 
On Pinterest, none of the content produced is original. Users simply pull from disparate parts of the web and organize them in one place. Each item can subsequently be “repinned,” which is similar to reblogging on Tumblr or retweeting on Twitter. 

The action gives the item contagious transmission and acts as a metric for proving just how popular something is. At the time of writing this, a photo of a hyper-attractive, paint-covered couple kissing with a caption reading, “Have a paint fight,” is dominating the popular page on Pinterest. Originally pinned to the board “Bucket List,” it has been repined over 700 times in under an hour — a perfect indication of what the users of Pinterest want. 
The inherent power of Pinterest is that it focuses on images, but that has also become its biggest problem. On other social media sites, there is an assumption that the vast majority of the content posted will be of the user’s own creation — you compose your tweets, write your own love letters on your Tumblr and upload your own photos to Facebook. Every once in a while, you might post something that isn’t your own and therefore in copy­right grey area, but for the most part it’s yours. Pinterest has recently found itself in a sea of legal troubles sur­rounded by copyright because every­thing its users post is not their own. Currently, Pinterest complies with DMCA takedown procedure — mean­ing if a copyright owner sees their content on Pinterest, they can request it be removed. But, if Pinterest were to completely prohibit low-level copyright infringement, it would essentially have no business, no users and no way to make money. To appease content own­ers, Pinterest recently introduced a “nopin” add on for sites, which dis­ables the “Pin It” button’s features. Many sites that deal in copyright-protected content have enabled the “nopin” feature as fast as possible. Popular image sharing site Flickr is among them. 
The statistics behind recent user engagement with Pinterest are abso­lutely insane. January attracted over 10 million users, 97 percent of whom are female, who spend over 100 min­utes on the site per month. Pinterest has become a new habitual addiction as its base of users has found an outlet for their taste-making tendencies. It also appeals to the imaginative sense in us all. Just like the aforementioned ideal, paint-bedazzled kiss between attractive people, Pinterest’s boards are filled with the “what if” end games that populate so many dreams. “What if I owned this wedding dress,” “what if I could bake this cake,” “what if my legs were that lean” and “what if I owned that impossibly cute puppy,” are among the dream scenes projected by Pinterest. With all these dream-inspired people spending hours on the website, Pinterest is beginning to be­come clued into what they need to do next — offer people fulfillment of their dreams. Currently, Pinterest makes money by using a program called SkimLinks to cross-reference all the links on each board to affiliate pro­grams with the websites and compa­nies the pins link back to. Essentially, if you find and then buy something via Pinterest, they get a commission. The next logical step is to allow users to purchase — and fulfill — their dreams directly within Pinterest. A Pinterest competitor, Fancy, already offers this direct e-commerce service. 
Pinterest may appear to be incred­ibly important or cutting-edge, but the real value lies in the fact that it has seized an entire demographic of people (women ages 15 to 40) and given them a place to spend time on the Internet. That’s the reason it has drawn the interest of high-profile investors and most every media outlet. For a very long time, high-profile com­munities on the web have been orient­ed to men, or just barely able to split the demographic in half. This isn’t to say Pinterest isn’t for men (all three co-founders are male), but it seems the ladies have seized control and have no plans to leave. 
Blake J. Graham is a freshman. He can be reached on Twitter @BlakeGra­ham or at bgraham2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Eulogy for 922 

The Observer ran an article last Friday (“State seizes student houses,” Feb. 
24) detailing how the Indiana Department of Transportation has claimed 922 South Bend Ave. under eminent domain and plans to raze the house as part of a larger project improving state Route 23. As the former residents of 922, we must share our collective disappointment that such a prominent Notre Dame institution will be lost on future classes (slight-to-moderate hyperbole). To many of you, 922 will seem to be just a house. But the truth is that 922 became much more than that. 922 became a state of mind. 
Going into the 2009-10 academic year, we were seven dudes who ran around in the same circle of friends. We knew each other, but not incredibly well, and to be honest, the living situation came together with equal parts excitement and convenience (two of us studied abroad in the fall and another two left in the spring). Despite any trepidation heading into the year, as soon as we walked through those doors, none of us ever looked back. 
The timeline for that year reads with one weird weekend following another: Dill House Formal, the Handcuff Party, Conor-Potts-a-Palooza, the Calkin’ Crawl and the Case Day. And don’t get us wrong, things were nice during the week too: 3FC, FPC, Rosalita Thursdays and the Civil War.  We even found the heart to take in a few lost animals and provide them a home (rest in peace, Nathanial and Nicodemus … Buke, we still hate you). As we quickly found out, though, the house came to represent the best aspects of the collegiate experience:  a place where people could gather, have a great time and begin friendships that will last the rest of our lives. We truly made the most of every moment. 
While the walls of 922 will be torn down, it becomes almost unnecessary to say that we will carry its memory with us and continue to honor what it means to each of us. We can only hope Notre Dame students will forever create places that bring great memories, and even greater friendships, just as we did then.
 In 922 we trust, 

Joshua Bell 
alumnus Class of 2011 
Conor Brennan 
alumnus Class of 2011 
Matthew Delaney 
alumnus Class of 2011 
Joseph Donovan 
alumnus Class of 2011 
Michael Henry 
alumnus Class of 2011 
Christopher Posluszny 
alumnus Class of 2011 
James Woods 
alumnus Class of 2011 Feb. 27 
Fried chicken does not celebrate Black History Month 
It’s 2 a.m. on a Saturday night, last semester. I am walking back from Mod Quad and I happened to walk by LaFun. Three belligerent Caucasian students are talking to each other and aimlessly shouting the N-word. I call them out on it. They shout back, disregard my comment and keep on using the word. I let that pass; I wanted to go to sleep. 
Tuesday morning Feb. 21 at breakfast, a good friend of mine sits across from me and tells me that there are people who have been putting fried chicken in mail­boxes of groups like the African Student Association, Black Student Association and similar groups to “celebrate Black History Month.” I couldn’t help but recall that Saturday night and feel the same way. I was shocked, flabbergasted, speech­less, confused, angry and disappointed. I didn’t know what to think. I still don’t know what to make of this act. Both times, I wanted to do something right then and there, but that wouldn’t amount to anything. 
I would think that, as a whole, we understood what Black History Month is about. I know stereotypes exist. I know that it’s easier to joke about stereotypes than it is actually to be legitimately funny. However, is that what Black history is? Celebrat­ing Black stereotypes? Is putting chicken or watermelon in a mailbox of a minority-focused group actually funny or does it just accentuate a gap of cultural under­standing? 
To me, Black History Month is about celebrating the culture and the figures that have made an impact on American history. I love fried chicken and I love water­melon, but is that all I love? No, I love technology, I love talking about learning and I am amazed by design. It might be funny, perhaps for a femtosecond — putting chicken in those mailboxes — but I hope that it is not what Black History Month has come to be. I hope that there is more to it than that. 
Irere Romeo Kwihangana 
sophomore Morrissey Manor Feb. 27 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, February 28, 2012 

Best Dressed: 
Gwyneth Paltrow in Tom Ford 
What can I say? This dress was absolute perfection on every level. First, the cape on the red carpet was not only chic and elegant, but also practi­cal. There’s nothing more un­glamorous than shiv­ering like a drowned cat in your haute couture dress! While others com­plained of the slight chill, Gwyneth stood tall. The color white went perfectly with her skin tone and the sleek lines remind us why we love Tom Ford in the first place — modern and sexy, but never vulgar. The column silhouette it gave is absolute perfection. 
Worst Dressed: 
Melissa McCarthy in Marina Rinaldi 
Now, first of all, I adore Melissa. On the red carpet she was poised, genuine and el­egant, while in “Bridesmaids” she was the most delightfully free and fearless woman I have seen in a very long time. But her dress simply did not do her personality justice. The sleeves just could not make up their mind. Were they waving 


in the wind? Was it a kimono- And the cut outs on the sleeves  Best Dressed Woman:  
esque affect? Most impor­ were the cherry on the sundae  Gwyneth Paltrow in Tom Ford  
tantly, the pale nude color  — it was sleek and modern,  She looked amazing.  No one can disagree with that. It was sim- 
made her disappear — she  yet so sexy and stunning. And  ple and chic. That is often hard to pull off, but she did it flawlessly.  
should have been in a vibrant  it fit her like a glove, which is  I would be remiss if I did not mention the cape.  If you would have  
turquoise or emerald, like a  so important.  told me that someone would wear a cape to  
few of the other nominees.  Rose Byrne in Vivian West- the Oscars and look amazing, then I would say  
It would have made her eyes  wood  that you should go back to Comic-Con.  
sparkle even more than they  Now this dress I love be- 
did in the nude Marina Rin­ cause it is perfectly acceptable  Worst Dressed Woman:  
aldi. The collar and belt were  and wow-inducing for any  Emma Stone in Giambattista Valli  
lovely, though. Any time you  event we college fashionistas  Oh, Emma Stone! Oh my dear, dear Emma.  
wear a Brian Atwood shoe,  may attend. Black, sequins,  After your last appearance on the Red Carpet  
you need a dress that packs as  backless and it hangs on her  at the Golden Globes, I had such high hopes for  
much punch as your footwear.  like a dream. Plus, I love the  you. And then, you showed up wrapped like a  
Shailene Woodley in   way she did her hair. This  car in a Lexus commercial? Come on girl, you Sean Fitzgerald  
Valentino  whole look is completely at- need to represent us red heads a little better  
Princess Leia called — she  tainable and it’s a subtle sexy.  than that. Scene Writer  
wants her dress back. Enough  
said.  Women I want to be in my  Best Dressed Man:  
60s:  Brad Pitt in Tom Ford  
Best Pose-Inducing Dress:  Glenn Close in Zac Posen  Congratulations on winning the best-dressed-guy-wearing-ex- 
Angelina Jolie in Atelier  All right — a bustier top,  actly-what-every-other-guy-is-wearing award. Unlike many of the  
Versace  tuxedo jacket, long train and  others, his bow tie was actually straight and he pulled off the long  
Angelina never disappoints,  in green? I hope I look this  hair look well. He gets major kudos for that. And, unlike Bradley  
and neither does Donatella.   amazing at her age. Seriously.  Cooper, Brad Pitt’s facial hair didn’t look completely creepy.  
The black color added to the  Glenn Close set the bar for  
whole effect by deceiving the  what a mature, successful and  Worst Dressed Man:  
audience into thinking it was  confident older woman looks  Jonah Hill  
a simple design. But as soon  like and I will totally be   Apparently Jonah forgot that Black Tie attire actually means  
as Angie turned around, you  copying her. Imitation, is after  that you can wear white. I am still debating what color that shirt  
saw the thigh high slit (hello  all, the sincerest form of flat- was. Was it purpley-brown, plum, blackish-purplish or is there  
gorgeous legs!) and the deli­ tery.  some shade of indigo in there?  I think I am going to contact Cray­ 
cate folding in the bodice. The  Meryl Streep in Lanvin  ola and ask them what that color is. Maybe they can name it ‘The  
red lips made it totally pop —  Pitch perfect — a gold wrap  Jonah Hill.’ At least when kids grow up, they will know the differ- 
classy and fabulous.  dress in stunning fabric.  ence between black and whatever color that shirt was.  
Jennifer Lopez in Zuhair  Meryl was her own statuette.  
Murad  She’s an Oscar legend — who  Honorable Mention:  
In my opinion, this dress is  needs a statue when she’s on  Tom Hanks  
right up there with the wow  the show?  Tom Hanks went with the non-traditional double-breasted tux,  
moment of her 2001 Grammy  and it looked really good.  It stood out in the sea of traditional  
Versace gown. No one does  Contact Felicia Caponigri at  tuxes.  Glad to see that the Oscars are no longer being completely  
plunging neckline like JLo and  fcaponig@nd.edu  dominated by George Clooney and Brad Pitt.  
she looked amazing. I think it  The views expressed in this  
is safe to say that we fashioni­ column are those of the author  Contact Sean Fitzgerald at sfitzge3@nd.edu  
stas would do simply unspeak­ and not necessarily those of  The views expressed in this column are those of the author and  
able things for those curves.  The Observer.  not necessarily those of The Observer.  


LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 



Tuesday, February 28, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

.lms on Instant Net.ix can be daunting for any sub­
scriber. To ease the process, Scene has graciously 
provided a list of the best Net.ix has to offer. After Sunday's Oscars, this special edition features some of Net.ix's best award-worthy movies. 
1. “Patton” 

Franklin J. Schaffner's 1970 biographical war movie won seven Academy Awards, including Best Actor for George C. Scott, who refused to accept the award. The .lm tells the life of General George S. Patton who led America's Third Army across Africa and Europe in WWII. Beginning with an iconic speech against the back­drop of a huge American .ag, “Patton” is a classic. 
2. “Chinatown” 

Roman Polanski's classic neo-noir .lm was nominated for nearly all of the major awards at the 1974 Oscars, but only walked away with Best Original Screenplay. The .lm is based on the historic California Water Wars, a long-running dispute over land and water rights in southern California. Jack Nicholson, Faye Dunaway and 
John Huston star. 
3. “Good Will Hunting” 

This 1997 drama was nominated for nine Academy Awards and won two — Best Actor in a Supporting Role 
for Robin Williams and Best Original Screenplay for 
Ben Af.eck and Matt Damon. The cast is star-studded 
and each actor plays his role excellently, evoking the 
right emotions at the right times and drawing the audi­
ence into the story, the life of a young man from South 
Boston who is secretly a genius. It's no wonder this .lm was nominated for so many awards and holds a special 
place in the hearts of so many. 
4. “Kramer vs. Kramer” 

This Oscar-dominating .lm follows a father, mother 
and their young son as the family undergoes a nasty divorce. The story is a fascinating study of the effects 
of divorce on everyone involved. It won .ve Oscars in 1979 Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor (Dustin Hoff­man), Best Supporting Actress (Meryl Streep) and Best Adapted Screenplay. 
5. “Philadelphia”

 The .rst of Tom Hanks' two-in-a-row Best Actor Oscar wins came from his starring role as a lawyer .ghting against his wrongful dismissal. Andrew Beckett (Hanks) is .red from his law .rm when it is revealed he is suffer­ing from AIDS. To .ght the suit, he turns to the homo­phobic personal injury lawyer Joe Miller (Denzel Wash­
ington) for help. 






˜e Oscar’s annual “In Memoriam” should always be a moving part of a night that is otherwise for celebrating. Unfortunately, the awards o.en make a misstep with the video of those lost in the last year and don’t do the segment full justice. ˜is year, however, the “In Memoriam” was perfectly understated and a wonderfully tasteful celebration of some of Hollywood’s 
Meryl Streep wins Best Actress 
With a surprise win over admittedly deserving Viola Davis, poised and charming Meryl Streep proved yet again why she’s the classiest, most beloved woman in Hollywood. Her acceptance speech de.ly mixed humor and emo­tion. “When they called my name,” she joked, “I had this feeling I could hear half of America going, ‘Oh no! Oh come on, why her? Again!’” Add a loving tribute to her husband and humble gratitude to her friends and peers and it was enough to move anyone to tear up along with her. 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 28, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Now is a great time for sports in pop culture 
I didn’t get it at first. I mean, how do you make a movie about a philosophy? How do you make a movie about a sports philosophy, no less? But that’s exactly what Brad Pitt, Jonah Hill and “Money­ball” did. 
And they got recog­nized for it with mul­tiple Academy Award nomina­tions, marking a turning point for sports in the movie theaters. 
Before, it was all about storytelling — in movies like “Seabiscuit,” “Mil­lion Dollar Baby” and “The Blind Side” — but the recent film about the Oakland Athletics’ unique roster makeup changed that. It was a unique take on Mi­chael Lewis’ award-winning book and took a closer look at sports as a business, an industry instead of a bunch of people with awesome stories coming together and playing on a team. 
When you look at sports in movie and television culture today, it is tough to think of a better time for the niche genre (save for whatever year Space Jam came out, that year was obviously the best for sports movies). 

an ex-convict who was just released from prison after three years. 
That’s right, Rain Man and Gaylord Focker’s father is now playing a criminal in a drama on premier televi­sion about horse racing. If that does not show you that people want a little more sports on their television, I do not know what does. 
“Eastbound and Down,” another HBO Sunday night program, instead focuses on 
washed-up minor league 
pitcher Kenny Powers and 
his wild and crazy and 
mostly stupid journey from 
America to Mexico and 
back. Danny McBride, Will 
Ferrell and Jason Sudekis star in the show’s lackluster (so far) third season, pro­viding an outlet for those sports fans who want to watch a reliever with a rock star mullet yell expletives after every pitch. 
But these shows have nothing on the now depart­ed “Friday Night Lights.” 
“Friday Night Lights” deserved an Emmy nomina­tion and an audience long before it got both of them. By perfectly replicating a normal family in a football crazy town, Kyle Chandler (now of Super 8 fame) and Connie Britton have long been television’s best mar­riage — if anyone cared to notice. And someone finally did notice in the series’ fi­nal season, as the show took home two Emmys. 
I unashamedly love Smash Williams, Jason Street, Lyla 
Garrity, Tim 
Riggins and 
On HBO, the premier of all premier cable  When you look at sports in movie and television culture  the rest of the Dillon Panthers (or the East  
channels, two sports pro- today, it is tough to think of a better time  Dillon Lions) but the series  
grams take  for the niche genre.  has unfortu­ 

up time on their vaunted Sunday night lineup, one that at one point included True Blood, Curb Your Enthusiasm and Entourage. While the two shows occupy the same night on the same channel, they are vastly different. 
On the one hand, you have “Luck,” a confusing and dark drama about horse racing filled with a multi­tude of different character types that somehow finds a way to be entertaining. Nick Nolte plays a seemingly horse-whispering trainer, while Hollywood star Dustin Hoffman portrays nately come to 
a close. One 
can only hope “Luck” can step in and re­place “Friday Night Lights” as television’s next great sports drama. 
Even it fails to live up to those lofty expectations I have now placed on it, it will be okay, as long as I still have “The League” to fall back on. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NBA 

Kings, NBA reach arena deal 

Associated Press
   SACRAMENTO — Building a new arena for the Sacramento Kings has never been closer to reality. 
The city, the Sacramento Kings and the NBA announced a tentative deal Monday to fi­nance a new arena that would keep the team in California’s capital for the long haul. The City Council will vote on the plan March 6. 
Sacramento Mayor Kevin Johnson, NBA Commissioner David Stern and the Maloof family, which owns the Kings, emerged from three days of talks in Orlando, Fla., — where they had been negotiating all weekend during All-Star fes­tivities — to announce that the framework of a deal had been reached, giving fans some 3,000 miles away in the Central Val­ley reason to cheer for a come­back story that fittingly came straight out of Fantasyland. 
“I think when we left Sacra­mento and came to Orlando, you guys asked me how close were we. I thought it was a free throw — and you need to make two free throws,” Johnson told reporters at a news conference at the Waldorf Astoria at Walt Disney World. “I think the city made the first free throw, and the Maloof family made the sec­ond free throw. 
“It’s game over.” 
Well, almost. 
Under the proposed terms of the deal, the city will contrib­ute $200-$250 million to the estimated $367 million arena, mostly by leasing out parking garages around the facility, a person with knowledge of the negotiations said. The person, speaking on condition of ano­nymity because the full financ­ing plan will not be made pub­lic until at least Thursday, said Sacramento also will create revenue through a ticket sur­charge. 
The Maloofs have agreed to contribute $75 million in up­front cash, which includes the sale of land around the team’s current suburban arena, along with paying off a current $67 million loan to the city and con­tributing more over the course of the deal. Arena operator AEG also agreed to pay almost $60 million. 
“I think it’s great for our com­munity,” a tearful Gavin Maloof said. “I’m glad it’s finally com­ing to an end after 13 years. It’s been a long road.” 
The Kings almost moved to Anaheim, Calif., a year ago be­fore Johnson and city leaders convinced the league to give Sacramento one last chance to help finance an arena. At one point, Johnson — a former NBA All-Star with the Phoenix Suns — even called the process a “slow death” and likened the city’s efforts to a “Hail Mary.” 
Johnson made a desperate pitch to the NBA Board of Gov­ernors last April to give the city a final chance to come up with an arena plan. He also bought time by presenting more than $10 million in commitments for new advertising, ticket pur­chases and other financial sup­port from regional businesses for this season. 
The NBA’s relocation commit­tee, headed by Oklahoma City owner Clay Bennett, who moved the team now known as the Thunder from Seattle in 2008, recommended that the league give the city a shot to follow through— and handed down a March 1 deadline to come up with a plan to help finance an arena. 
In the end, the deal was strong enough to convince the Maloofs to stay — pending the City Council’s approval. 
“This is a great day for Sac­ramento, a great day for the Maloof family, a great day for the NBA” Joe Maloof said. “I’d like to thank the mayor for all of his hard work and efforts throughout the years and, of course, the commissioner for all of his support and every­thing he’s done for the NBA. Our family is just so excited that we have the framework for a deal. We’ve always said we wanted to stay in Sacramento and now here’s our opportunity.” 
Despite attempts by Anaheim and Seattle to swoop in and lure the Kings, the fate of the fran­chise is in the hands of the Sac­ramento City Council — which has approved every arena mea­sure to date under the current project. The arena, which would open for the 2015-16 season in the downtown Sacramento rail yards, is a vote away from breaking ground. 
“I’ve had the great pleasure ... of opening up two arenas and I’m looking forward to open­ing up a third in Sacramento,” Stern said. “I want the Maloof family to get back to Sacramen­to fast because I’ve asked them to get those renewals out for next season.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS  Great Specials! Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom Townhomes available. (574) 272-8124. www. clovervillageapartments.com 
FURNISHED REMODELED RANCH 10 minute walk 2 bedroom 574-309-3758 rmfopen@gmail.com 
WANTED 
Artist needed for children’s book/ program 
Contact mkarle@alumni.nd.edu for more information. 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Past NBA Slam Dunk Champions 
1984 (Denver) – Larry Nance, Phoenix Suns 
1985 (Indianapolis) – Dominique Wilkins, Atlanta Hawks 
1986 (Dallas) – Spud Webb, Atlanta Hawks 
1987 (Seattle) – Michael Jordan, Chicago Bulls 
1988 (Chicago) – Michael Jordan, Chicago Bulls 
1989 (Houston) – Kenny Walker, New York Knicks 
1990 (Miami) – Dominique Wilkins, Atlanta Hawks 
1991 (Charlotte) – Dee Brown, Boston Celtics 
1992 (Orlando) – Cedric Ceballos, Phoenix Suns 
1993 (Salt Lake City) – Harold Miner, Miami Heat 
1994 (Minneapolis) – Isaiah Rider, Minnesota Timberwolves 
1995 (Phoenix) – Harold Miner, Miami Heat 

Tuesday, February 28, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
to keep their momentum going sity on Saturday to compete 
Club 

into the second half. Senior Kelly against Butler, IUPUI and Pur-Nickodem made sharp cuts and due University.  Notre Dame continued from page 12 impressive catches to help main-faced IUPUI in the first match 
tain possession. In the second and played a great first round, squad opened the season against half, Kansas fought back to bring bringing home wins in every North Park, dominating the the score to 10-10. On universe category. match and winning 15-1. Senior point, Notre Dame found them-Freshmen Madison Carroll captains Vicke Hadlock and Ash-selves on offense going down-and Christine Rush crushed ley Satterlee demonstrated ex-wind. The final point was ardu-their opponents with a 6-2 vic­cellent leadership on and off the ous, with multiple changes in tory to open play. The Irish then field to help secure the victory. In possession and defensive layouts, won three tiebreak sets in the their second game against John including a layout-D from junior next three matches — juniors Brown, the Irish came out strong Kelly Taylor. For the final point, Ben Galloway and Matt Smith once again, winning 15-1 and Palazollo found sophomore Eliza won 6-5 (5-3) for the men’s dou­practicing their zone defense for Herrero for the win. The team bles; junior Claire Lis brought later matches. celebrated in victory as champi-in another close match for the 
The third match pinned Notre ons of the 2012 Free State Classic, women’s singles 6-5 (5-2); ju-Dame against the No. 1 seed, winning the final match 11-10. nior Stefan Hogle had to re-St. Louis. Junior Kasey Coonan The B team placed seventh at sort to winning ugly, scraping made smart throws and catches the Free State Classic. On Satur-together a 6-5 (5-4) win with-for her first year on the A squad, day, they battled through tough out his own racquet.  Fresh-while junior Courtney Iversen matches against St. Louis, Kan-men Matt Hing and Liz Quinn sent beautiful hucks into the end sas, John Brown and North Park. brought in a quick win for the zone for scores. The Irish took Although the Irish did not pick up mixed doubles with a clean 6-0 
beaten the Huskies three down SLU 15-3.  In their final any wins, the women saw great victory. 
McGraw 

straight times, the first team game of the day, the Notre Dame improvement from both new and Notre Dame beat IUPUI with 
to accomplish the feat since women fought hard against Kan-returning players. Junior cap-an overall win of 30-17. 
continued from page 16 North Carolina did from 2004­sas in their toughest match of the tains Elizabeth Villafuerte and The club had a tougher time 
07. day.  As the wind picked up, both Devlin Lynch displayed com-against Butler in the second 
second half that led to some “It’s a pride thing,” Dig-teams began to trade downwind mendable leadership in their first round.  Galloway and Hogle 
layups for us and that was a gins said. “We wanted to step points but Notre Dame possessed tournament as a B squad. They won a close match 6-4 for men’s 
huge momentum shift.” out of the shadow of UConn. greater intensity and endurance also showcased impressive team-doubles.  Women’s doubles 
Novosel agreed the focus I don’t know the last time we during the 100 minute match to work as handlers for the team. fought through a tough match, 
needed to be on defense com-won a game here. It was a win 11-8. On Sunday, the B team came with Rush and Carroll dropping 
ing out of the locker room. great team effort in a hostile Sunday, the Irish continued out hard with games against Mis-the set 6-1.  Hing played lost 
“That was a point of empha-environment where teams can pool play with games against souri and Kansas State. Junior 6-1, and Quinn took home this 
sis at halftime,” Novosel said. get down quickly. We stayed Kansas State and Missouri. Gusts Kat Wilson displayed impressive round’s biggest win with a 6-1 
“We wanted to stop them on together.” of wind reached upwards of 25 endurance and sharp cuts while victory.  Smith and Lis dropped 
defense, not outscore them.” A rematch may be looming mph, and Notre Dame was forced sophomore Mary Kate Scavo kept the mixed doubles set, 6-2, and 
The game was tight until the on the horizon as Notre Dame to play smart against tough zone up the intensity in her first spring the Irish fell to Butler 23-16. 
final few minutes. The game and UConn could square off defenses. Junior Andrea Palazol-tournament. Lynch also complet-For the third and final round, 
was tied at 51 with 12:46 re-again in the Big East tourna­lo and senior Elise Garton showed ed two defensive layouts on Sun-Notre Dame faced Purdue. 
maining before junior guard ment title game. The Huskies impressive patience with the disk day, while freshman newcomer Though Notre Dame started 
Skylar Diggins led Notre Dame have won either the Big East on the upwind points, while ju-Caitlyn O’Malley picked up one as off with a 6-0 lead after men’s 
on an 11-2 run. regular season or tournament niors Allie Hawkins and Kelsey well. The B team made massive doubles, Purdue came out as 
“We came out here and title each of the last 17 years. Taylor possessed great commu-strides from the beginning of the the stronger team that day. 
played for coach,” Diggins With a victory Monday, the nication to help gain yards down tournament to the end, finish-Carroll and Rush stepped up to 
said. “She deserves it. This is Irish stopped a six-year dur­the field. The Irish won the games ing in seventh place and gaining play women’s doubles, but fell 
something that she can add to ing which Connecticut won or 11-5 and 13-5, respectively. valuable outdoor experience be-to the Boilers, 6-3.  Rush went 
her repertoire. She is a Hall of shared the Big East regular The A team found itself in the fore facing future competition. right back out onto the court 
Fame coach and this is some-season crown. championship match against Both teams look to continue and fought a tough opponent, 
thing that she hadn’t accom-As the No. 1 seed, the Irish Kansas on Sunday afternoon. The their seasons at Tally Classic VII before losing 6-5 (5-2).  Gallo­
plished, and we wanted to do will receive a double-bye game started off with immediate in Tallahassee, Fla. March 10-11. way dropped his men’s singles 
it for her.” through the first two rounds intensity, handfuls of fans on the match 6-3.  Finally, Hogle and 
With 3:11 to play, Novosel of the Big East tournament. sidelines and hard defense dis-Tennis Carroll played the best match 
hit a three-pointer to put the Notre Dame will next take the played by both teams. The Irish Notre Dame’s club tennis of the day, stringing together 
Irish up by 13 points. At that court in the tournament quar­went up 8-5 at halftime, hoping team traveled to Butler Univer-some great points, but lost 6-4. 
point, Connecticut coach Geno terfinals March 4 at 2 p.m. Auriemma pulled his starters in the XL Center in Hartford, and all but conceded victory Conn. to the Irish. 
Dating back to the 2011 Fi-Contact Matthew Robison at nal Four, the Irish have now mrobison@nd.edu 
tinues to stay true to its mission 
Lally 
by raising money for a Holy Cross mission in Bangladesh. Ticket continued from page 16 sales are continuing, and Lally said the semifinals and finals physically developing.” will provide even more opportu-By the time the semifinal bouts nities for the club to raise money. roll around, Lally said there is a “Ticket sales have been going common thread between most of well, every day people are still the fighters. asking about the fights and the 
“I wouldn’t say that the qual-upcoming dates,” Lally said. ity of the fights gets that much The club has made programs greater, but it seems that the to be distributed for the final experienced fighters tend to two rounds. The programs are win out,” Lally said. “They are another way to raise money and the guys that have fought in the also give room for sponsors of past and know what it takes to the club to show their support. advance. Better boxers win, but “We will also be passing with that being said, you see a lot around a bucket for additional more juniors and seniors than donations at tomorrow’s fights,” novices in these later rounds.” Lally said. 
Another benefit to being an ex-Lally, like several of the cap­perienced fighter is the ability to tains, is a returning champion, deal with increased pressure. but he said he takes a similar ap­
“There is definitely an added proach to every fight and recog­element to the fights now that nizes the quality of competition. there is only one ring for people “I think that my weight class is to watch rather than two,” Lally very deep,” Lally said. “You can said. “All eyes are on you, and end up with three or four qual­especially the finals draws an ity fights every year, and I think enormous crowd. There is defi-that is the same for a lot of the nitely a different vibe.” light weight classes. There are 
Through all the intensity, a ton of great fighters, so I go in though, the fighters have main-preparing for every fight in the tained their composure. same way.” 
“People don’t get more anx-Boxers will try to overcome ious now in comparison to the their final obstacle to the cham­preliminary round,” Lally said. pionship round tonight, as the “I think the earlier rounds had a semifinal bouts will start at 6 more anxious feel because many p.m. in the Joyce Center Field-of the boxers were fighting their house. first fight.” 
Throughout the competition, Contact Brendan Bell at the Bengal Bouts program con-bbell2@nd.edu 



page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, February 28, 2012 
CLUB SPORTS 

Women’s volleyball takes third after 32-year absence 
Men’s volleyball ranks No. 1 nationally; cycling takes three of the top places in Kentucky road races 
Special to The Observer 
Women’s Volleyball 
Women’s volleyball returned as a club sport after a 32-year absence at the Ohio State Invita­tional. 
The club dissolved in 1979 when Notre Dame first introduced varsity volleyball to campus, but seniors Stephanie Cripps, Kait­lyn Howard and Erin Vogel have worked tirelessly to see the fruits of their labor realized. 
At the Ohio State Invitational, the club dropped its first two games to Grand Valley State A, then split games with Cincinnati’s A squad.  The Irish collected their first sweep against the Illinois B team, to place third overall in their pool. 
In cross-over pool play, the club swept a pair of games from Akron A before losing a pair of games to both Purdue A and Ohio State B. 
The team had just been recog­nized a few days before the event, and had practiced just once be­fore the competition. 
Men’s Volleyball 
The National Collegiate Volley­ball Club ranked Notre Dame as the top club team in the nation, marking the first time the Irish have ever been ranked No. 1.  The club finished last season as the No. 2 team in the country. 
Men’s Water Polo 
The men’s water polo club trav­eled to Auburn University for an invitational featuring some of the best teams in the south. 
In its first tournament since their conference championships in October, the Irish came out slightly sluggish.  Facing a formi­dable opponent from the SEC, the Irish took an early lead and never looked back.  Defense proved to be the key to the victory in this low-scoring contest and standout freshman Dolff Hanke was the difference with two goals in the game. 
Notre Dame had a tough chal­lenge with Emory University in its second game.  The Irish rose to the challenge, however, and their offense came alive in the contest. Jumping out to an 11-4 lead at halftime, the team was able to give some of its younger, more inexperienced players valuable playing time. Hanke and senior Drew Wroblewski were offensive standouts, while senior Dan Geis­man and sophomore Jack Turek starred on the defensive end. 
After recovering from the matches the previous day, the Irish again came out determined to grab a victory.  Throughout the entire game, the team was in total control against a strong opponent from the Florida Conference.  Of­fensive leaders Hanke and sopho­more Pat Raycroft led the scoring for the Irish, while Turek and freshman Kevin Balhoff kept the Knights’ attack at bay.  Sopho­more goalie Geno Freeman also was pivotal in halting the UCF of­fense. 
In the championship game of the tournament, the Irish were brought against a national power­house in Florida State.  In an ex­tremely close, last-second finish, the team fell to the Seminoles.  Af­ter leading early in the game, the Irish found themselves behind for most of the contest.  With a little more than three minutes left in the game, Notre Dame was down 10-7.  The team rallied back, how­ever, with two quick goals.  The Irish had a chance to tie the game with 10 seconds left, but the shot hit the crossbar and time expired. Top performers were Hanke and Raycroft on the offensive end, and Geisman, Turek, Balhoff, and freshman Chris Catalino on the defensive end. 
Bowling 
The bowling team finished its season this weekend at the American Heartland Conference Championships. The tournament was double elimination style, and after qualifying, Notre Dame was the No. 24 seed in the 31-team field. The team bowled much higher than their seed suggested, and during elimination play, took No. 7 Michigan State to the final game, losing by a very narrow margin. 
The club then rallied to make it to the third round, but lost to No. 23 Bowling Green. The Irish aver­aged over 180 on the tournament, a season high performance. Notre Dame is now done for the year and won›t return to action until September. 
Cycling 
Notre Dame took three of the top nine places in both the Men’s C and B road races at the Lindsey Wilson Invitational in Kentucky this weekend.  Highlighting the club’s performance was junior Joe Magro’s fifth-place showing in the Men’s A competition.  That represents the best finish ever for an Irish rider in the age of com­petition against varsity teams fea­turing professional riders. Magro was off the front of the field in various breakaways for 65 miles of the 75-mile race. 
The B and C teams posted the second-fastest time trials in their races, while the A team finished seventh.  On Sunday, Notre Dame won the Men’s B criterium, and placed sixth in Men’s C. The Irish now have a big lead in the DII con­ference standings, while Magro is out in front in individual DII con­ference standings.  Even factoring in the DI teams, Magro ranks fifth overall. 
Women’s Rugby 
Despite a snow covering of about four inches, the women’s rugby club opened its spring sea­son Saturday in Allendale, Mich., against Grand Valley State Uni­versity. 
The girls started out strong and pushed GVSU back deep into their territory, but as the ball tumbled and skidded across the ice, the Irish struggled to maintain domi­nance. 
The first score of the game was made by the GVSU strong-side wing. That set the pace for the rest of the game, as the Irish re­mained scoreless until the second half. 
At the half, when the Irish spir­its were down, sidelined injured seniors Katherine Merck and Re­becca Buczkowski reminded the team of its heart and determina­tion. The Irish started the next half strong with a charge forward by sophomore pack player Anna Frasier.  Through momentum and unifying teamwork, the ball was passed back to junior cap­tain Ashley Okonta, who powered through GVSU’s defensive line and dove into the snow-covered try-zone for the first Irish try. Sophomore kicker Amelia Vojt pulled out the first successful point-after of the game. 
With strong performances by sophomore rookies Clare Robin­son and Kirsten Kozlovsky and freshman Shannon Kenny, the Irish cleaned up their defense and their attacks.  Despite these efforts, GVSU secured the win, 49-7. Even with this rough start the Irish look forward to a great spring season. 
Men’s Rugby 
The men’s rugby team trav­eled to Jonesboro, Ark. for their first match of the season against Arkansas State University. The Red Wolves fielded a strong squad of American and international players and beat the Irish 99­0, only seven days after beating Texas A&M in similar fashion. The Irish came close on mul­tiple occasions, but were over­whelmed by the ASU defense. They look to regroup for a tough away match at Oklahoma next weekend, before three more away matches in a row. 
Men’s Ultimate 
The men’s ultimate teams trav­eled to suburban Kansas City to compete in their first tournament of the season. The A-Team looked to compete with top-level com­petition from around the Mid­west and build their resume for a possible nationals appearance in June. The B-Team, with many first year players, hoped to build experience and chemistry as a team. 
The A-squad began the tourna­ment against Iowa, a team that finished third at nationals last year and the tournament’s top seed.  After falling behind early, Notre Dame was unable to come­back against IHUC and fell 15-9. Notre Dame responded in their next game, defeating Missouri 15­13.  In the last game of pool play, the Irish blew a halftime lead to Boston College to finish 1-2 in the pool and in third place.  With the last game only counting for the difference between the fifth and sixth seed the next day, the Irish opened up their lines, and con­sequently fell to Luther 14-11 in their final game of the day. 
Beginning Sunday in the round of 16 against conference rival Ball State, the team that ended Notre Dame’s season last year, the Irish came out strong to take an early lead. Despite a late comeback at­tempt by BSU, Notre Dame kept at least a two- point lead throughout the entire second half, eventually winning 14-11.  A rematch with Iowa followed in the quarterfinals and ended with another loss. 
Falling to the fifth-place brack­et, the club came back with a dom­inating 15-8 victory over Kansas State to set up another rematch, this time against Luther.  Unlike the first rematch of the day, the Irish played their best game of the weekend against LUFDA.  Af­ter surrendering the first point of the game, Notre Dame rattled off five consecutive points to take a 5-1 lead, and eventually took an 8-2 cushion into halftime.  The foot never left the gas pedal, as the Irish continued their domina­tion in the second half and took the victory 15-6.  This placed the squad fifth among 24 teams, with a 4-4 record. 
Despite the .500 record, the team took heart in the fact that two of its losses came to the even­tual champion Iowa, one to the third place team, BC, and the loss to Luther was avenged the next day in bracket play. 
Juniors Colin Mackett, Jona­thon Koch and Zack Woodruff all put in impressive performances in their first tournament of the year after returning from fall study abroad programs.  The se­niors were also instrumental in the weekend’s performance as Mike Della Penna, Adam Barsella, Will Cernanec, Thomas Kenealy, James Denue, and Sean Jack­son played a part in nearly every score.  Lastly, freshmen Jason Wassel, Kyle Hill, John Shield and Erich and Danny Kerekas played important roles in their first tour­nament with the A-Team. 
The B-Team worked to grow as a team throughout the week­end. Sophomore captains An­drew Romero and Jordan Lange led a team filled with freshmen impressively as the team gained valuable experience playing in windy conditions against zone defenses. This will surely be ben­eficial later in the season when attempting to advance from their conference tournament at the end of the season. 
Both teams will be back in ac­tion in two weeks at the Tally Classic in Tallahassee, Fla., and then the following weekend at Southerns in Statesboro, Ga., over mid-semester break. 
Women’s Ultimate 
The women’s ultimate team traveled to Kansas City, Kan., for the Free State Classic this week­end, marking the first tourna­ment of the spring season for both the A and B squads. 
The field included eight teams in a single pool. The women’s A 
see CLUB/page 11 


Tuesday, February 28, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 

Casareto prepares for national diving competition 
By BRIAN HARTNETT Casareto’s impressive showing her relationship with junior div-Sports Writer at the Big East championships er Jenny Chiang, a three-time is merely the latest chapter in a Big East champion, has been vi-
In the world of sports, there strong freshman campaign that tal to her early improvement. are few events more stressful for has seen her also reach the finals “I had never really trained an athlete than standing alone in the three-meter dive event at with anybody who competes on a diving board and facing the the championships and garner at a higher level than myself, anxious eyes of the crowd, all all-conference honors. Another so training with Jenny really while preparing to time a per-highlight in her first season in-pushes me to my limits,” Casa­fect jump into the watery abyss cluded a victory in the one-meter reto said. “I wish I could have below. It is enough pressure to dive against Michigan State, in had someone as talented as her rattle a veteran diver, much less which she scored a remarkable to train with in the early years an inexperienced freshman. 304.12 points. of my diving career, since I can 
But Notre Dame freshman div-Casareto said her transition to tell that I’m getting better much er Allison Casareto handled that college diving was not seamless, more quickly with Jenny helping scenario with poise beyond her as she struggled at times in the me out.” years earlier this month at the beginning of her Notre Dame ca-Equally important to Casare-Big East championships, rattling reer. She said the strong support to’s success is the diving team’s off a series of impressive dives to shown by her teammates was unique training regimen, de­place second overall in the one-essential to making her feel like signed to mimic the spotlight meter dive championship. she could contribute at the col-of a major competition like the 
“It was an almost unbeliev-lege level. Big East championships. Casa­able experience, since I didn’t “Everyone on the team was reto said the team stages prac­honestly think I would do that supporting me, especially the tice meets during weeks before practices with an emphasis on include being nationally ranked well,” Casareto said of her sec-upperclassmen,” Casareto said. major competitions, exposing the quality rather than quantity in diving, earning All-American ond-place finish. “I was one of “They really helped me a lot in divers to conditions similar to of dives, forcing divers to strive status in high school and earn-the last ones to go in finals and the transition by letting me know what they will likely see during for perfection. ing a spot on the Notre Dame somehow I dove the best I have that I was improving.” competition. Additionally, she With her goal of competing diving team. all year.” In particular, Casareto said said the team’s coaches design for a Big East championship “Notre Dame had always been 
now checked off, Casareto will a huge consideration of mine for turn her attention to the na-college, so it was like a dream tional level, as she will compete come true when I got my first in the NCAA Zone Diving Meet call from [Irish] Coach [Caiming] in Bloomington, Ind., in early Xie,” Casareto said. “Now that March. I’m here, I’ve found everyone to 
“I never would have thought be so collaborative at this place.” that I would be at NCAA level in Although her first season isn’t my freshman year, so I don’t re-over yet, Casareto has already ally know what to expect,” Casa-raised her expectations for next reto said. “But I think it will be season, as she is looking forward really fun and a great experi-to reliving her Big East success. ence for me.” “I think this year’s perfor-
Competing on the NCAA level mance sets the bar higher for is only the latest in a series of next year,” Casareto said. “I Casareto’s goals that started can’t wait to compete again, and popping up when she first fell in I hope to get top three on both love with diving as a third grad-boards in next year’s champion-er in her hometown of La Habra ships.” Heights, Calif., and have gradu­ally been accomplished since Contact Brian Hartnett at then. These conquered goals bhartnet@nd.edu 
week or two and practice.” 
Kubinski 
The spring season began Feb. 13, when the Irish travelled continued from page 16 to Reunion Resort in Orlando, Fla., for The Match Play.  The so we can work on our short Irish won the tournament with game even in the winter time.” strong play from seniors Tom 
While many sports also have Usher and Chris Walker. fall and spring seasons, golf The three-month respite be-is one of the only two-season tween seasons didn’t affect sports that cannot continue to Notre Dame’s play and the Rolfs play indoors.  Unlike schools in Family Varsity Golf Facility was warmer climates, the Irish are a large reason for the team’s forced to stick to the driving solid play, Kubinski said. range and chipping and put-“Our guys had to play really, ting green. The ability to play really well [to win The Match on the course year-round is a Play] and I think had we not had plus for these warm-weather the indoor capability we have, I schools, but the great facilities don’t know if we would’ve come at Notre Dame keep the Irish out on top,” Kubinski said. “The from falling too far behind, Ku-building has helped a lot.” biniski said. With a tournament win al­
“I wouldn’t say it is a huge ready under their belts, Ku-disadvantage because we do biniski and the Irish are ready have the capability to practice to continue their spring season some,” Kubiniski said. “But I in what looks to be a promising would say it’s a slight disadvan-year. tage. But we have so many posi-“This is honestly the most tive things that I think that’s excited I’ve been for a spring what attracts kids to our team.” season since I arrived here at 
In addition to training at Notre Dame,” Kubinski said. these facilities in the winter, “I think this team can be right many players originate from up there to compete for the more southern locations and championship.  There are some play their home courses over very strong fields, but I loved winter break to stay fresh.  In the things we showed a cou­fact, even those who do not live ple of weeks ago at The Match in warm places will often stay Play that we didn’t necessarily with their teammates to prac-show before in terms of mental tice their golf game. toughness, discipline and just 
“Not only do the players get belief.” to go home and play for those The Irish will return to the four weeks of Christmas break, course this weekend for exhibi­but they sometimes invite some tion matches with Notre Dame of their teammates to come out alumni at Harbour Town Resort and join them and play some in Hilton Head Island, S.C. golf and practice,” Kubinski said. “Some guys will do that Contact Peter Steiner at and even go to Florida for a psteiner@nd.edu 



page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, February 28, 2012 
game and 10.4 rebounds per 
Hoyas 
game). “I was disappointed [in continued from page 16 Cooley’s performance],” Brey 
said. “I thought his energy lev­senior center Henry Sims also el was down a little bit. All of scored more than 10 points. our success this year has real-
Notre Dame (20-10, 12-5) ly come off of what he’s given and Georgetown were tied at us inside [and] we didn’t get 11 midway through the first much. But other guys weren’t half before the Hoyas closed good either.” the opening period on a 17-7 The Irish shot just 33 per-run, open-cent for the ing up a 28-game, includ­18 lead at ing three-the break. for-16 from 
Irish ju-behind the arc. nior for-“We had a hard time They were also ward Jack finding any kind of outrebounded Cooley opening. Their length by 16. 
failed to “I give a lot 
and size and quickness 
score or re-of credit to 
really bothered us. We 
cord a re-Georgetown’s 
had the tempo where we 
bound dur-defense,” Brey 
wanted it, but we could 
ing the first said. “We had a 
half. He fin-never get into much of hard time find­ished with an offensive rhythm.” ing any kind of just two opening. Their points. Mike Brey length and size 
“I re-and quickness 
Irish coach 

ally got af-really both­ter them at ered us. We halfti me . had the tem-I got af-po where we ter Jack at wanted it, but halftime,” Brey said. “I think we could never get into much some juices will be flowing in of an offensive rhythm.” practice starting Wednesday The Hoyas ripped off a 13-2 morning.” spurt over six minutes in and West Virginia to 11 com-now,” Brey said. “We play home Friday to take on Provi-
Cooley came into the game the second half to open up a bined field goals in the second Providence Friday, we’re pre-dence in the last regular sea-as the Big East’s fourth lead-21-point lead. Georgetown’s half. Georgetown matched paring for one game. We need son game of the year. ing rebounder and had aver-largest lead was 23. that number, making 11 shots some good practice [repeti­aged a double-double in con-In its last two Big East wins, in the second stanza. tions].” Contact Matthew DeFranks at ference play (14.6 points per Notre Dame held Villanova “It’s a one game season right Notre Dame will return mdefrank@nd.edu 
that silent killer for us. You’re 
Granger 
not so aware of her, then all of the sudden she buries the ball continued from page 16 or sends a feed.” Off the field, Granger is 
With the installation of Irish currently studying both Mar-coach Christine Halfpenny in keting and Film, Television the offsea-and Theatre, son, the Irish an unusual are a team double-major in transition, “Jenny’s just lethal; that reflects and Granger I mean when you her unique is one of the watch her she’s just interests. upperclass -one of those players “I started 
out the 
men that that’s fun to watch.” in 
has already business played a key school, and I 
Christine Halfpenny 
role, keep-really liked ing the Irish Irish coach ma rketi ng composed and how it’s during two the psychol­tough wins ogy of other over Duquesne and then-No. 6 people,” she said. “And then I Stanford. just started taking television 
Although Halfpenny has classes, and I loved the whole only been with the team for a process of shooting and edit-few months, she already rec-ing things. They both seem to ognizes Granger’s importance combine in advertising. I’m both on the field, and in the thinking of either doing some-locker room. thing in advertising or on TV 
“She brings a calmness and with commercials, hopefully.” a poise to our team,” Halfpen-Granger still has over a ny said. “And she’s so smart. year until she tries to break This girl has probably the into commercial advertising best game though, and sense and until then she field sense on will continue our offense. I to help lead feel like she “[Granger] brings her team to-understands a calmness and a ward its ul­the pace and poise to our team.” timate goals tempo of the of Big East game. She and national 
Christine Halfpenny 
really reads cha mpion ­
Irish coach 
what our ships. team needs Granger at any given said that time.” there’s no 
Granger rush to leave may play an important role her sisters on the team though, in keeping the team rolling as she still has plenty left to do along, but Halfpenny said the under the Golden Dome. midfielder’s explosive play is “[This team] is a family,” still her biggest contribution. she said. “They’re my best 
“Jenny’s just lethal; I mean friends, and it’s just an awe-when you watch her she’s just some place to be.” one of those players that’s fun Granger and the rest of the to watch,” Halfpenny said. Irish will take on Ohio State “She’s a beautiful stick — in Columbus, Ohio, this week-she works very hard on that end.  
— and she’s hungry. She’s a threat whenever she touches Contact Jack Hefferon at the ball, and I feel like she’s wheffero@nd.edu 



Tuesday, February 28, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
EugENiA LAST 

CROSSWORD WiLL SHOrTz 
HOROSCOPE 



HENry ArNOLD 

jON rEpiNE 
JUMBLE 
EXPND 
MikE ArgiriON 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, February 28, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Cooling off 
No. 19 Irish fall to No. 12 Georgetown, pick up second straight conference loss 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
No. 19 Notre Dame came into Monday’s game against No. 12 Georgetown with a chance to claim a double bye in the Big East tournament. Instead, after a 59-41 loss, the Irish left Washington, D.C., with a two-game losing streak. 
“I think it’s a little bit of a wake-up call for us,” Irish coach Mike Brey said in a postgame interview with und. com. “Life has been good for us. Last time we lost two in a row, we came back and we got into a real good practice regi­men, which we can do again.” 
Georgetown freshman Greg Whittington led the Hoyas (22-6, 12-5 Big East) with 15 points on five of six shoot­ing, knocking down all three of his 3-pointers. Georgetown had three different players score in double figures — se­nior guard Jason Clark and 
see HOYAS/page 14 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Midfielder keepsteam composed 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Seeing Jenny Granger shoot and score has become a commonplace for Notre Dame, as the junior midfield­er notched three goals in her first two games this season. Hearing the Disney song “I Just Can’t Wait to Be King” has become just as common, as Granger chose the Disney classic for her goal song. 
“I don’t know [why I chose it],” Granger said. “I like Disney movies, and I tried to make it upbeat, too. I like the sound of it, and I like the ‘Lion King,’ but my favorite Disney movie is probably ‘Cars.’” 
The light-hearted tune is only one of the ways Granger helps keep a relatively young team relaxed and composed. 
see GRANGER/page 14 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Defending champion stresses mental strength 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
For the 44 remaining boxers preparing for tonight’s semifinal fights, the opportunity to fight in the championship bouts in Pur­cell Pavilion lies, tantalizingly and stressfully, just three rounds away. 
As boxers progress in their brackets and recovery time be­tween fights gets shorter, ju­nior captain and defending 
MEN’S GOLF 
134-pound champion Jack Lally said the approach to training changes. 
“There is definitely an ele­ment of strategy and prepara­tion,” Lally said. “There isn’t a lot of time to exert yourself dur­ing the week, and so you need to shorten up your workouts and focus on technique. At this point in the season, more stress is put on mentally growing rather than 
see LALLY/page 11 
Golfers maintain high spirits despite weather 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
Whether you come from sun­ny California or chilly North Dakota, winter weather in South Bend is always a hot topic for Notre Dame students. 
It’s no different for the men’s golf team, whose athletic year is split in half by the winter months. Fortunately for the Irish, this doesn’t mean they have to stop playing golf when the Warren Golf Course shuts down. 
“At the Rolfs Family Varsity Golf Facility at the Warren Golf Course, we have an indoor-outdoor training facility, basi­cally,” Irish coach Jim Kubin­ski said. “And what that entails is hitting days where garage doors open up and we can hit balls onto the range. Even if we get some snow we are still able to hit some. 
“That helps us keep the golf club in our hands and work on some things and make swing changes. We also have an in­door putting and chipping area 
see KUBINSKI/page 13 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND wins Big East title outright 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 

In a matchup of Big East behemoths, senior Natalie Novosel scored 21 points and grabbed eight rebounds as No. 3 Notre Dame took down No. 4 Connecticut on Monday to capture sole possession of the conference regular sea­son crown. 
“I was really pleased with our defense, especially in the second half,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw told uco­nnhuskies.com on Monday. “I thought we really got into the driving lanes a little bit more.” 
The Irish (28-2, 15-1 Big East) defeated the Huskies 74-67 in overtime on Jan. 7 in the Purcell Pavilion. The season sweep gives the Irish their first outright Big East regular season title in pro­gram history. 
“I think this team is really special,” McGraw said. “They have really high goals, they are a competitive group, they have a lot of pride and I love that about them. I’m happy for them, and I appreciate that they are happy for me, winning the first one. I hope to have a chance to have some more. I love this group.” 
Notre Dame will head back to Hartford, Conn., as the No. 1 seed in the conference tournament. The loss pushes the Huskies to the third seed in the tournament after los­ing a tiebreaker to St. John’s, who broke Connecticut’s 99­game home winning streak Feb. 18. 

off and help on the dribble from [senior guard Tiffany] Hayes a little bit,” she said. “I thought we did that. They had some turnovers in the 
see McGRAW/page 11 
At the half, the Irish led by three. McGraw said she knew there were things the Irish needed to do differently if they wanted to secure the victory. 
“At halftime we tried to get 






