
Notre Dame 41, mIamI 3 | MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012 | NDsmcobserver.com 
Home away from home 
Four second-half rushing touchdowns, stifling defense lead Irish over Miami in Chicago 
stifled morris and his athletic re-
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
ceivers, limiting the Hurricanes to just 285 yards of total offense cHIcaGo — the No. 9 Irish 
editor-in-chief 
and no touchdowns, continu­took two minutes to find their 
ing a streak dating back to the footing in soldier Field, but 
fourth quarter of Notre Dame’s for the next 58, they ran over, 
sept. 8 victory over Purdue. around and through miami 
“For our defense, we just focus en route to a 41-3 victory on 
snap after snap — one snap at a saturday in the fourth install-
time,” senior linebacker manti ment of the shamrock series. 
te’o said. “We really work hard “When they ran out of the 
throughout the week, and our tunnel, it was a pretty excit­
coaches do a good job instilling ing atmosphere … the 60-plus 
that mindset of trying to domi­thousand that were here to­
nate each play.” night made for a great atmo-
Notre Dame dominated the sphere in chicago,” Irish coach 
time-of-possession battle, con­brian Kelly said. “our football 
trolling the ball for nearly two-team really fed off that energy. 
thirds of the game, by a count of again, I think it’s pretty simple 
39:08 to 20:52. … we controlled the line of 
“our game plan was situated scrimmage.” 
on running the football, which Notre Dame (5-0) started the 
equals time of possession for game looking rusty from its bye 
us,” Kelly said. week, as Hurricanes receiver 
the victory made the Irish a Phillip Dorsett found his way 
perfect 4-for-4 in off-site home behind the Irish secondary on 
games, and te’o said the loca­the very first snap from scrim­
tion just two hours from cam-mage. but Dorsett dropped 
pus made the energy palpable. a picture-perfect pass from 
“It was really nice. It was miami quarterback stephen 
a great change,” te’o said. morris, setting the tone for what 
“obviously we knew it was a would be a mistake-filled per­
home-field advantage for us be­formance for the Hurricanes, 
cause of the crowd.” who committed nine penalties 
Notre Dame next hosts No. for 76 yards and dropped nu­
18 stanford on saturday in a merous passes. 
matchup made more momen­“We had too many penal­
tous after esPN announced ties, [and] too many drops. We 
its pregame show “college lost our poise at times,” miami 
GameDay” would be broadcast-coach al Golden said. “We didn’t ing live from campus before the play smart enough, we didn’t game. Despite the hype around play disciplined enough and we the first 5-0 start in 10 years, didn’t make enough plays. It’s te’o said his team had to keep that simple. Give Notre Dame a which miami (4-2, 3-0 acc) an-the big plays, and we could run Notre Dame tallied 587 yards its mindset if it wanted to keep lot of credit.” swered with a field goal minutes the football, that was going to of total offense on the day, its winning. 
Irish junior quarterback later. Notre Dame added two be our recipe for success.” highest offensive output of the “We’ll sit down, we’ll watch tommy rees started the game more field goals in the second Wood got the ball rolling on season. some film and we’ll see what for the Irish, as sophomore quarter to take a 13-3 lead into Notre Dame’s first drive after the “It’s a good team effort out [the cardinal] like to do. We’ve everett Golson was suspended halftime. half with a two-yard touchdown there,” Watt said. “everyone was just got to keep it rolling,” he for the opening series after ar-after the break, however, the that followed a 37-yard run orig-blocking really well today, the said. “We have to stay hum-riving late to a team meeting Irish offense exploded on the inally ruled a touchdown. Wood backs were making their cuts ble, we have to stay grounded due to a meeting with a pro-strength of its rushing attack, added another touchdown on … [and] we had our best group and approach each day with a fessor. though the Irish were which rolled up 270 yards in the the next drive, which preceded of practices as an offensive line purpose.” forced to punt on their first se-second half alone on its way to a 55-yard touchdown scamper and as a unit, so it really trans­ries, miami committed a per-376 rushing yards, the highest from sophomore running back ferred to the field today.” Contact Allan Joseph at sonal foul on fourth down to total since a 2000 victory over George atkinson to make the meanwhile, the Irish defense ajoseph2@nd.edu bring Golson onto the field. the boston college. sophomore score 34-3 at the end of three young quarterback had his best running back George atkinson quarters. performance of the season to rushed for 123 yards on 10 car-“When you start to break the date, completing 17-of-22 pass-ries, and senior running back other team’s will, it starts to es for 186 yards and adding 51 cierre Wood added 118 more on show,” senior guard chris Watt 



PLAYER OF THE GAME 
yards on the ground. 18 carries. It was the first time said. “We were able to do that — 
“I thought everett grew up to-since 2002 that two Notre Dame that was our goal going into the day,” Kelly said. “He did some running backs ran for 100 yards second half. We knew we had really good things throwing the in the same game. senior run-established the running game. ZACK MARTIN football for us. [He] managed ning back theo riddick had 21 We wanted to keep up with it 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSIVE TACKLE 
some pressure situations very yards before leaving the game too.” well. and he had his best week with a bruised elbow. the Irish offense added one one of Notre Dame’s senior captains, martin was the standout of of practice.” “clearly, we felt like we found more touchdown, a 1-yard run the offensive line’s best game so far in the 2012 season. the unit 
the Irish took an early 7-0 lead a way to run the football today,” from sophomore running back dominated the line of scrimmage and opened up big holes for run-on a one-yard run from senior Kelly said. “We felt like if we cam mcDaniel, in the fourth ning backs cierre Wood and George atkinson. martin deserves a running back theo riddick, could keep them from getting quarter to finish the scoring. lot of the credit for the season-high 376 rushing yards. 


tHe observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012 | NDsmcobserver.com 



REPORT CARD 









QUARTERBACKS 
everett Golson had the best game of his young career, throw­ing for 186 yards, completing 17-of-22 passes and rushing for 51 yards. He bounced back nicely from a disciplinary issue that forced him to sit the first Irish offensive set of downs. 

RUNNING BACKS 
cierre Wood looked like his 2011 self in a physical, 118­yard rushing performance. He was complemented by big-play back George atkinson, whose 123 yards repre­sented a career high. 

RECEIVERS 
tyler eifert continues to make every catch count. the all­american candidate recorded only two catches facing heavy coverage, but hauled in a big 23-yard reception to set up a score. the wide receivers shared the load in yet an­other game, with t.J. Jones’ four catches being the top mark. 

OFFENSIVE LINE 
the experienced group had its best game of the 2012 cam­paign, opening up huge holes for Wood and atkinson, and later cam mcDaniel. the Hurricanes failed to record a sack on Golson, and registered only one hurry. 

DEFENSIVE LINE 
the heralded group of pass rushers failed to record a sack for the first time all season, but still had a tremen­dous impact on miami quarterback stephen morris’ comfort level in the pocket. stephon tuitt, Louis Nix and Kapron Lewis-moore all had hurries on morris. 

LINEBACKERS 
manti te’o continued a dream season and backed up a bye period in which he entered the Heisman trophy discussion and was featured on the cover of “sports Illustrated.” He had 10 tackles and led a group that bot­tled up miami phenom back Duke Johnson. 

DEFENSIVE BACKS 
Keivarae russell was a standout on the edge, showcasing his tackling ability in one-on-one situations. but the group also was lucky not to have been burned by miami receiver Phillip Dorsett, who dropped two sure touchdowns. 

SPECIAL TEAMS 
Kicker Kyle brindza missed his first field goal since his first collegiate attempt against Purdue, but made two others. the Irish kick returners, punt returner and punter all had a quiet week in terms of work. 

COACHING 
Kelly deserves a ton of credit for keeping his team fo­cused despite the high-profile setting and hyped uni­forms that come with the shamrock series. 

OVERALL GPA: 3.60 
Notre Dame put forth its best performance of the 2012 season thus far under the lights in chicago. the offensive line controlled the game, the running backs tore up an over-aggressive miami defense and the Irish defense did not allow a touchdown for the third straight game. 


PLAY OF THE GAME 
ATKINSON’S 55-YARD RUN TO PUT THE GAME AWAY 
In the waning seconds of a third quarter the Irish had dominated, sophomore running back George atkinson took off through a big hole in the miami defense and put the game away with a long run, outrunning the miami secondary and making the score 34-3. 


Andrew Owens 
assistant managing editor 
cHIcaGo — the old adage says if you have two quarter­backs, you have none. 
but, in Notre Dame’s case in 2012, two quarterbacks can be managed efficiently to pro­vide the Irish one complete quarterback. 
No, this isn’t orwellian math or any kind of fuzzy math. For Notre Dame, it’s the recipe for success, which looks more and more like a bcs berth with each passing week. 
Not all quarterbacks are cre­ated equal. any Irish fan can attest to that. tommy rees is the yin to everett Golson’s yang. rees lacks Golson’s athleticism, but rees has more experience in high-pressure situations and, at this point, can better manage a game. 
In Notre Dame’s 41-3 man­gling of miami at soldier Field on saturday, Golson gave every­one a glimpse of the potential Irish coach brian Kelly has al­luded to when speaking about his dual-threat quarterback. 
He can run. He can pass. He can dazzle. 
boy, can he dazzle. 
Golson completed all six pass attempts in the first quarter and engineered a drive at the end of the first half on which he was 4-of-4 and moved the chains on each play before sophomore kicker Kyle brindza’s missed field goal attempt to end the half. In his 15-of-20 first half, Golson distributed the ball to eight different receivers, clearly showing his patience with reads and progressions. 


His breakout performance was rooted in the emer­gence of his running ability, a trait used sparingly during september. the wrinkle just might’ve caught the Hurricanes off-guard. 
“We really took a hard look at where we were offensively and knew we had to open up the offense formationally, as well as the zone read game, which obviously helps us quite a bit,” Kelly said. 
In a game Notre Dame didn’t put away until the third quar­ter, the most telling aspect of the sophomore’s play was his ability to avoid the mistakes that led to his benching against michigan. 
When Golson struggles again 
— and he will — it’s nice to have a 17-game starter in your back pocket. 
but the junior certainly has his flaws. It’s the reason rees lost his starting job to begin with. 
You won’t find a bigger tommy rees critic than yours truly, but, in the right spots, he gives Notre Dame the best chance to win. He reached his physical peak a long time ago and his play cost Notre Dame dearly at times in 2011. 
but with a defense that hasn’t allowed a touchdown in a month and a potent rushing attack, the Irish don’t need a Geno smith. a craig Krenzel will do just fine and rees can be exactly that. 

He can manage the game and be the steady road to Golson’s peaks and valleys. When the Irish find themselves in a de­fensive slugfest, a la michigan two weeks ago, rees is simply the best option. 
Heading into 2012 with a bru­tal schedule and questions at several positions, it looked like the season would be a learning experience for the squad. most pundits thought Notre Dame would have a couple losses before the calendar turned to october, and that scenario would’ve enabled Kelly to be much more patient with Golson by using a long-term approach. 
but Notre Dame is 5-0. What was once considered a pipe dream is a distinct possibility: the Irish in a bcs bowl. 
each week matters. each snap matters. 
Kelly knows he can’t afford to think about 2013 and 2014 when a golden opportunity exists in 2012. to his credit, he had the short-term vision from the be­ginning and has managed the quarterback situation beauti­fully — even when Golson was pulled against Purdue. 
Kelly has two quarterbacks and one gargantuan opportu­nity. and there’s nothing wrong with that. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NDsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012 | tHe observer 

Irish control clock as rushers dominate 

ASHLEY DACY | The Observer 

Senior running back Cierre Wood stiff-arms a Miami defender. Wood rushed for a season-high 118 yards in the Shamrock Series matchup. He also rushed for two touchdowns. 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
cHIcaGo — on most days, Irish coach brian Kelly is not an advocate of time of possession. that was not the case after Notre Dame’s 41-3 win over miami on saturday. the Irish used a relent­less running game and key third-down conversions to dominate the time of possession statistic, holding the ball for 39:08 of the game’s 60 minutes. after the game, Kelly acknowledged the role possessing the ball played in the one-sided Irish win. 
“I am [an advocate] on these days,” Kelly said with a laugh. 
the Irish ran the football ear­ly and often coming out of the locker room to start the second half, after posting a 13-3 lead in the first half. Kelly called 19 run plays out of 21 offensive plays from scrimmage in the third quarter, and the tandem of se­nior running back cierre Wood and sophomore running back George atkinson responded with three combined rushing touch­downs in the frame. Kelly said the success running the ball in the second half was fueled by the of­fensive line. 
“We made sure that we ran the ball between [senior offensive linemen Zack martin and chris Watt], who are outstanding and felt like they could control the line of scrimmage,” he said. “and we used some formations to get some good matchups. they were rotating their coverage to [se­nior tight end tyler] eifert quite a bit and again, it opened up a lot of things for us in the running game.” 
after miami redshirt senior kicker Jake Wieclaw converted a 28-yard field goal to put the score at 7-3 at the 5:32 mark in the first quarter, the Irish responded with the first of several long scor­ing drives they would produce throughout the game. Golson completed all four of his passes and rushed for 24 yards on a 13­play, 70-yard drive that encom­passed 6:22 and ended with a 22-yard field goal by sophomore kicker Kyle brindza. Notre Dame followed up that drive with a 14-play, 65-yard drive that also ended in a brindza field goal. all in all, Notre Dame recorded four scoring drives consisting of more than 12 plays. miami coach al Golden said the disparity in time of possession took a toll on his young defense. 
“It’s bad. You know, it’s not good,” Golden said. “again, give them credit.  they ran the ball effectively. they’ve got a vet­eran offensive line.  they rotated three running backs in there and I thought they blocked well on the perimeter and as I said, we compounded by not making any progress on offense with the football.” 

the nearly two-to-one split of time of possession that resulted from the run-heavy Irish play calling kept a dangerous miami offense off the field and contrib­uted to its season-low three-point output on the scoreboard. miami entered the contest having av­eraged 35.6 points through its first five games, but struggled to convert when it had the ball on offense. 
“I just think they were execut­ing better than we were and our defense was on the field too long. We weren’t getting first downs,” Golden said. “ there was a long stretch where we were not getting first downs on offense.  We were giving them the ball back. We could never get a takeaway.” 
Wood, who ended the game with a season-high 188 rushing yards, said the clock-controlling performance on the ground is a sign of things to come for the Irish. 
“You take it to them and smack them in the mouth enough times, they’re going to want to stop play­ing, and that’s what happened today,” Wood said. “It was only a matter of time. I know I can make plays, it’s just a matter of when the opportunity presents itself.” 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
atkinson has career day 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
cHIcaGo — sophomore running back George atkinson set a number of career highs in Notre Dame’s 41-3 victory over miami in the shamrock series. atkinson finished the contest with 123 yards on the ground on 10 carries. His average of 
12.3 yards per rushing attempt is the highest for a Notre Dame running back (minimum of 10 carries) since reggie brooks’ 
13.7 per rush in 1992 against Purdue. atkinson’s 55-yard rushing touchdown in the wan­ing seconds of the third quarter was his second touchdown of 50-plus yards this season. 
No trail 
the Irish are the only team in the Football bowl subdivision that has not trailed in a game. Notre Dame got on the board first with a one-yard touchdown run by senior run­ning back theo riddick in the first quarter and led through­out the contest. the 2012 in­carnation of the Irish is the first Notre Dame team to ac­complish this feat since the 1947 team, who never trailed en route to a national champi­onship after accomplishing the same feat in 1946. 

Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
SCORING SUMMARY 






1ST 2ND 3RD 4TH 
TOTAL 

300 03 7621 741 
NOTRE DAME 7, MIAMI 0 
theo riddick 1-yard run (brindza kick) 

9:28 remaining 

NOTRE DAME 7, MIAMI 3 
Jake Wieclaw 28-yard field goal 

5:32 remaining 

Drive: 9 plays, 50 yards, 3:56 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 10, MIAMI 3 
Kyle brindza 22-yard field goal 

14:10remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 70 yards, 6:22 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 13, MIAMI 3 
Kyle brindza 32-yard field goal 

5:07remaining 

Drive: 14 plays, 65 yards, 7:17 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 20, MIAMI 3 
cierre Wood 2-yard run (brindza kick) 

11:57remaining 

Drive: 6 plays, 81 yards, 6:03 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 27, MIAMI 3 
cierre Wood 3-yard run (brindza kick) 

2:53remaining 

Drive: 12 plays, 86 yards, 6:47 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 34, MIAMI 3 
George atkinson 55-yard run (brindza kick) 

0:23 remaining 

Drive: 3 plays, 66 yards, 1:34 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 41, MIAMI 3 
cam mcDaniel 1-yard run (brindza kick) 

1:06 remaining 

STATISTICS 
Drive: 13 plays, 93 yards, 8:45 elapsed 

RUSHING YARDS  
376  
84  
PASSING YARDS  
211  
201  
Time of Possession  Time of Possession  

 20:52  
 39:08  
PASSING  
Morris  18-35-201  Golson  8-11-115  
Rees  3-8-30  
RUSHING  
James  26-90  Atkinson  17-52  
Johnson  13-61  Wood  7-39  
Clements  2-13  McDaniel  4-4  
RECEIVING  
Johnson, Da.  3-40  Jones  5-32  
Scott  3-33  Daniels  3-40  
Johnson, D.  3-30  Riddick  2-35  
James  2-11  Eifert  1-38  
TACKLES  
McGee  7  Te’o  9  
Paul  7  Russell  8  
Perryman  6  Fox  7  
Kirby  6  Calabrese  6  
Rodgers II  5  Shumate  6  
Johnson  5  Councell  5  


tHe observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012| NDsmcobserver.com 


ASHLEY DACY | The Observer 

Sophomore running back George Atkinson rushes the ball down the sideline during Notre Dame’s 41-3 victory over Miami in Chicago. Atkinson finished the game with 123 yards rushing, the first 100-yard rushing performance of his career. His 55-yard rushing touchdown in the third quarter was the second 50-yard run of his season, with the first coming against Navy. 
The fourth edition of the Shamrock Series brought the Irish to  Sol- 
WINDY CITY  dier Field in Chicago, and they responded with a record day on the ground in a 41-3 win over Miami. Running backs Cierre Wood and  
BREEZE  George Atkinson carried much of the load and the offensive line dominated the line of scrimmage to total 376 yards rushing. The  
mark is the highest in a single game for Notre Dame since 2000.  









