


COMMENTARY 

breaking down nd’s road success 

Andrew Gastelum 
Associate sports editor 
road sweet road. 
It just doesn’t have the same ring to it. but to this Irish team, road trips seem to be met with the same enthusiasm as field trips for a bunch of elementary school kids. 
For good reason, these numbers don’t lie. 
At notre dame stadium, the Irish have been survivors. count the four total overtimes, the inability to break 20 points in four quarters of play and the late-game-heroic wins against Purdue, bYU and Pittsburgh. 
At [insert anywhere away from south bend], the Irish have been conquerors. count the two total touchdowns given up all season, ability to score 43 fourth-quarter points and two wins over top-10 teams — the Irish snapped then­no.10 michigan state’s 15-game home winning streak while then-no. 8 oklahoma had only lost four times in norman since 1999. 
At notre dame stadium, the Irish have outscored their opponents 99-76, with an average margin of victory of less than a touchdown: 
4.6points. 
Away from south bend, the Irish have outscored their opponents 50-10. Wait. sorry, that was just the navy “game” in dublin. The real figure is a whopping 141-29, with an average margin of victory of four touchdowns: 28 points. 
With the way the Irish have been putting up points this year, 141 points sounds more like mike brey’s territory than that of brian Kelly’s. 
Turnovers killed the Irish last year (how’s that for an understate­ment?). This year, the Irish have been incredibly efficient: only one of the notre dame’s 11 turnovers have occurred away from the hal­lowed, Jumbotron-less grounds of the house that rockne built. That came from everett Golson in dublin when the game was already over, which means after the first quarter. 
And now for the stat-heavy por­tion of today’s column. 
At home, the Irish average 19.8 points per game, 3.9 yards per rush, 372 yards per game, have four rush­ing touchdowns and score touch­downs in just 36 percent of their red zone trips. 
deep breath. on the road, the Irish average 
35.2 points per game, 5.9 yards per rush, 445 yards per game, have 11 rushing touchdowns and score touchdowns in 57 percent of their red zone trips. 
Just ogle those numbers for a second. compare, contrast, shock and awe. 
maybe notre dame is too wel­coming. We know that notre dame is one of the friendlier places for op­posing fans, but maybe the memo was accidentally sent to the players as well. 
In search of an answer, I put in my sherlock holmes pipe and went to work on the notre dame veteran minds that have been there, done that and seen it all. 
“search me, I wish I knew,” graduate student guard mike Golic Jr. said. 
so I asked the right guard wheth­er the Irish simply liked to wear the white road jerseys. 
“To be honest, especially with the big guys, the white makes us look fatter. We are not really partial with the white jerseys. Granted the new TechFit is tight in all the right places, but white is not flattering for the big guys.” 
so the quest moved to another viking-bearded fifth-year senior: captain Kapron Lewis-moore. 
“Golic’s right, you do want to look good on the road,” he said. 
maybe the hotel beds are comfier? 
“nah it’s all the same. I just don’t know what it is. There are not as many distractions,” Lewis-moore said. 
moving down the line, I found junior defensive tackle and team funnyman Louis “Irish chocolate” nix, but all I got was a more-than­personal response. 
“one guy at oklahoma called me fat,” nix said. “he was fat himself. I didn’t like that. I was thinking in my mind that we should stick together.” 
Then, finally, an answer (sort of) from senior offensive tackle and captain Zack martin. 
“The nap midday,” martin said in reference to northwestern. “All the away games are at night, so we get to nap a little bit. That’s it.” 
makes sense, but surely, senior all-everything linebacker manti Te’o would have the truth wrapped up like the heisman Trophy. 
“I want to experience something new,” the captain said. “so it’s: ‘how do you guys make your prime rib’ and ‘are your mashed potatoes good?’ but no, it’s about the ranch. michigan state makes the best ranch. If the michigan state hotel can call me, please tell me what ranch that is. It’s the ranch!” 
so in summary, the road war­riors are self-conscious in white, undistracted, motivated by fat jokes, sleepy and hungry. 
but all jokes aside, this notre dame team is far from one when faced with adversity. The point is, no one really knows why. There is just something special about going into another team’s building and sticking it to them against all odds. 
each of the three Irish captains ended their light-hearted mono­logues with the same words, and maybe the real answer to their success on the road: “It’s us against the world.” 
somehow, someway. Against the world, against all odds. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


RECRUITING 


Cornerback Luke commits, Anzalone still Irish 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
despite the Irish having one of the top 2013 recruit­ing classes in the coun­try for several months, it was widely speculated by recruiting analysts that notre dame needed to pull in a commitment from an­other cornerback to round out the class. That com­mitment came nov. 1, as four-star cornerback cole Luke from chandler, Ariz., became the newest mem­ber of notre dame’s 2013 class. 
Luke, the no. 34 cor­nerback in the 2013 class according to esPn, joins rashad Kinlaw and devin butler as the newest addi­tions to the notre dame cornerback corps. Irish from Arizona to notre dame. 2012 no. 8 overall recruit and current Irish wide re­ceiver davonte’ neal, is from scottsdale, Ariz. 
“notre dame’s idea is to re­cruit nationally, and get the best players it can get. A lot of the best skill players come from the West and south re­gions,” Frank said. “right now, Usc has its issues with the ncAA and oregon is real­ly the only dominant team in the West. so that area is ripe for the picking. 


Anzalone reaffirms commitment 
The 2013 Irish class re­ceived a boost monday when four-star linebacker com­mitment Alex Anzalone re­affirmed his commitment to notre dame on Twitter. Anzalone had recently been 


“I think Alex just wanted to be where he was most comfortable with the coaches who were going to coach him ... It’s tough for an 18-year old kid. I think after his commitment, Florida really came in and turned up the heat. I think they put some doubt in his mind.” 
Mike Frank recruiting expert Irish Sports Daily 
recruiting analyst mike Frank said Luke fits the mold of what notre dame is looking for in a corner. 
“he fits the mold they are looking for in terms of corners,” said Frank, who runs the esPn-affiliated Irish sports daily. “At six feet tall, he’s a taller cor­ner. he’s not overly big at this point, but he has the frame to add weight. he’s just a skinny kid right now. once he gets the opportu­nity to add weight and size, he’ll be able to use that size against the receivers he’ll face.” 
Frank said Luke would arrive on campus as the most advanced techni­cal cornerback in notre dame’s 2013 class. 
“he’s probably the best prepared in the class. he really plays defensive back and focuses on that, it’s where he excels,” Frank said. “Kinlaw plays quar­terback too and plays on the offensive side of the ball. butler also plays both ways. I would say cole is more technically sound, and I think he has a lot of potential.” 
Luke’s commitment continues a recent pipe­line of top skill players rumored to be wavering in his commitment to the Irish after a successful visit to Florida. The 6-foot-3, 231-pound re­cruit from Wyomissing, Pa., visited notre dame the day after the Pittsburgh game due to a conflict and reaffirmed his commitment the next day. Frank said meeting with the coaches and recruiting staff helped reaffirm the lineback­er’s commitment to the Irish. 
“I think Alex just wanted to be where he was most com­fortable with the coaches who were going to coach him,” Frank said. “It’s tough for an 18-year old kid. I think af­ter his commitment, Florida really came in and turned up the heat. I think they put some doubt in his mind.” 
With Luke and Anzalone securely in the fold, Frank said the Irish are going to fo­cus on three players to finish up the 2013 class: cornerback and no. 5 overall prospect mackensie Alexander, safety and no. 36 overall prospect max redfield and defensive end and no. 95 overall pros­pect Alquadin muhammad. Frank said the focus on top defensive recruits is the con­tinuation of a trend in Irish coach brian Kelly’s recruiting plan. 
“You look at guys who are making plays now — stephon Tuitt, Louis nix and manti Te’o — and they were all top recruits,” he said. “The rea­son you go after five-star or high four-star guys is they usually end up playing to that level.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com 
Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 

Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 





season with the Irish. during games, Lewis-moore “It’s night and day in my eyes matter who gets the praise.” 


By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 

Associate sports editor has given pep talks to younger outside of the statistics as to his After a quiet first five games, Captaining a team players on the sideline after a impact last year as to this year,” Lewis-moore has come on 
Kapron Lewis-moore is all before the season, Irish coach mistake or will congratulate Kelly said. “now he was a junior strong recently, registering about having a good time. brian Kelly named Lewis-them after a big play — offense last year and he’s a senior this three sacks in the last four From his trademark smile to his moore one of notre dame’s four or defense, it doesn’t matter. year, too.  but he’s one of the games. booming laugh and his goofy captains, along with seniors “If they make a mistake or if reasons why we’re 9-0.” “he’s been a better football faces, the graduate student de-manti Te’o, Tyler eifert and Zack they don’t make a mistake, you player for us this year,” Kelly fensive end loves to have fun. martin. have to have fun, you have to Mentoring the line said. “he is an extremely pro-
so when last year’s basket-“It’s been awesome,” Lewis-go on to the next play,” Lewis-on the defensive line, Lewis-ductive player, is playing with a ball season rolled around, the moore said. “I’m very honored moore said. “You can’t let one moore is the elder statesman lot energy, and has been a great decision was simple for the and fortunate to be in this lead-bad play hurt you all game be-of a rotation that features two leader for us.” Weatherford, Texas, native — ership position and it’s pretty cause your mistakes will build juniors, two sophomores and wear a floppy safari hat to the exciting. I just want to keep my up. If you make a good play, a freshman who all contribute Returning from injury games and stand in the front energy, keep my effort and en-we’re going to be there to cel-significantly. during last season’s 31-17 loss row of the student section. thusiasm, try to keep that con-ebrate with you.” entering this season, Lewis-to Usc, Lewis-moore detached 
“It’s just something I like to tagious to the team.” Lewis-moore said the support moore had almost three times his medial collateral ligament wear,” Lewis-moore said. “At during a team meeting in goes both ways on sidelines. as many starts as juniors Louis and required season-ending that point in time in basketball August, Kelly announced the “We feed off of each other, nix and Kona schwenke, soph-surgery five days later. season, I kind of wore it every-four captains for the first time, offense and defense,” he said. omores stephon Tuitt and Tony “It was awful,” Lewis-moore where. I think that’s how I got before he told the captains. “sometimes in the heat of the springmann and freshman said. “True senior year and not noticed for it.” “he called my name last and battle or the moment of the sheldon day combined. being able to play is one of the 
In his five years at notre I wasn’t really expecting it be-game, you might go up to a guy “It’s fun watching them grow,” worst feelings in the world. not dame, though, Lewis-moore cause we have a lot of guys on and go ‘hey, keep it up’ or ‘Guys, Lewis-moore said. “I’ve seen being able to do anything about has been noticed for more than the team that are worthy of don’t worry about it, we have Tuitt grow. I’ve seen Lou grow. it was really tough. Luckily, I his headgear. The 6-foot-4, being captains,” Lewis-moore your back.’ If the defense makes I’ve seen sheldon grow every leaned on my close friends and 306-pound lineman has been a said. “To hear my name called a mistake, you’ll have [junior day. It’s really awesome and it’s my family and my teammates to stalwart for the Irish defensive was really something special. quarterback Tommy rees] or something I take pride in. I’m help me get through it. I worked line, racking up 140 tackles and “It was kind of like ‘Whoa’ eifert or martin come up and kind of like the old man of the hard in rehab and I was able to six sacks in his three seasons and I got a little teary-eyed. I say ‘don’t worry d, we’re going team. It’s different to have that come back full strength.” before 2012. knew this season was going to to put it in the end zone.’” close relationship with your de-Lewis-moore rehabbed his 
After graduating in may with be special but to be captain is Kelly said Lewis-moore’s im-fensive linemen.” knee during the offseason and a marketing degree, Lewis-just something I can’t really ex-pact on the team extends past Lewis-moore, who is affec-returned for the season-opener moore returned for his fifth plain. It’s speechless.” the box score. tionately known as ‘old man against navy. he said the rehab 
Kap,’ said despite the develop-process was difficult. ment of the younger players, “It wasn’t really physically there are always opportunities tough but mentally, it takes for instruction. a toll on you,” Lewis-moore 
“There’s always room for said. “You kind of want to rush teaching,” he said. “[defensive it to come back but you’re not line coach mike elston] is supposed to. sometimes dur­teaching us all really well and ing rehab, you just want to get we all feed off each other. When out there and run again or lift one of us makes a big play, we all weights again.” get excited. We have great com-With his reconstructed knee, munication between the defen-Lewis-moore is having arguably sive line, coach elston and the his best season to date. he has coaching staff. It works really already registered a career-high good.” in sacks for a season and has 
The Irish defensive line also tallied 29 tackles, 4.5 tack-has accounted for 19 of notre les for loss and seven quarter­dame’s 26 sacks this season back hurries. but also does the little things. “obviously, I wanted to have Lewis-moore said such is the a good year but I think we’re life of a defensive lineman. having a tremendous year,” 
“It’s a mentality,” he said. “I Lewis-moore said. “I can’t real-really don’t care about personal ly explain it. I’m just happy to be stats. As long as we’re wining back. being fortunate enough to games, that’s what’s really im-be back for a fifth year, be with portant. I don’t care who makes my teammates and fight on.” the sack. With the whole de-Lewis-moore has had to fight fense, you really don’t care who his knee injury but there is one makes the play, as long as we’re thing he has no problem doing getting three-and-outs and — having fun. forcing turnovers and playing 100 percent. If we’re playing fast Contact Matthew DeFranks at and physical, it really doesn’t mdefrank@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 



brindza overcomes misses, hits late kicks 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
notre dame sophomore kicker Kyle brindza remembers his first collegiate field goal at­tempt. In the first quarter of this season’s home opener against Purdue, brindza lined up a 40­yard field goal, strode to the ball — and it sailed wide left. In his first season as notre dame’s full-time kicker, brindza said he has had to learn to deal with failure. 
“I just go out there [on the next kick] and remember what I did wrong,” brindza said. “I go out there and try to make sure that I don’t do that, fully make sure I focus on my mechanics, and make sure the ball goes through the uprights.” 
since that miss in his first at­tempt, the sophomore has been a dependable member of the Irish special teams and con­tributed many clutch kicks at the end of a handful of notre dame wins. After his open­ing miss in his debut against Purdue, brindza clinched a 20-17 Irish victory with a 27­yard field goal in the waning seconds. brindza credited Irish coach brian Kelly for provid­ing him with confidence after a missed field goal. 
“he comes up to me [after a miss], tells me what I did wrong, tells me what I need to do right,” brindza said. “Truly, he always gives me a pat on the back and tells me he has con­fidence in me. It’s a quick con­versation, but he always instills confidence in me.” 
In recent weeks, that con­fidence has been on display in Irish wins over oklahoma and Pittsburgh. despite miss­ing a field goal in both games, brindza helped secure an Irish win against the sooners with two long field goals from 44 and 46 yards in the fourth quarter. Against the Panthers, brindza made a 37-yard field goal in the first overtime period that would have ended notre dame’s unbeaten season had it missed. The sophomore said being able to restore his team­mate’s trust in late-game situa­tions was important. 
“me being able to go in there [against oklahoma] and prove to the team that they can rely on me, that was huge,” brindza said. “Them having the confi­dence in me to throw me back out there, it was just a great blessing to be able to do that.” 
In addition to kicking field goals for notre dame, brindza serves as the team’s kickoff specialist — a role he also per­formed in 2011 — and has re­corded 21 touchbacks on the year. brindza said serving as the kickoff specialist as a fresh­man helped him adjust to the college game. 
“Just being able to adjust to the speed of the game, and the size of the players really,” brindza said. “I mean, as a kicker you don’t really have to hit many people so I guess you don’t have to really worry about the size. but it helped to go out there and kind of get an aspect of where I needed to hit the ball in order to make a field goal.” 
In his second year, brindza has overcome early misses and periodic inconsistencies to be­come a reliable option at his position. The sophomore attri­butes his growth to the maturi­ty to pay attention to the details of kicking. 
“In kicking, just like in the game of golf, there’s the littlest things that can drift and cause you to mishit the ball or even miss the ball,” he said. “It’s just the little things that you need to incorporate, and have the maturity to … work on the tini­est bits of your form.” 


Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 






Jackson thrives as starting cornerback 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Assistant managing editor 
bennett Jackson adapts. he adapts to new positions. he adapts until he gets content, which is when it’s time to adapt all over again. 
A year ago, he was an after­thought on the defensive depth chart after moving from re­ceiver to cornerback. This year, he’s the top cornerback on a 9-0 squad anchored by one of the nation’s best defenses. 
“I’m a lot more comfortable. After the first two games … you get a grip for everything. everything starts moving more fluidly,” Jackson said of the learning curve. “When you’re more confident, you’re more comfortable.” 

so far, the results have been striking. Jackson has solidified what was expected to be a sus­pect secondary into the 22nd­ranked pass defense. Jackson has led the charge with four in­terceptions and has tallied 31 solo tackles, the second-most on the team. and robert blanton, Jackson a valuable member on kickoff always tried to work his hard-Jackson intercepted a pass 
“We’ve done a good job of was slated to start alongside Lo coverage in 2011. est to make sure that he’s not a in the end zone to keep the not giving up blown coverages Wood, the most experienced “he’s definitely one who liability out there.” cardinal from scoring. In the and letting guys loose,” he said. returning cornerback. Wood, plays with a lot of emotion Te’o said he thinks Jackson’s 20-13 overtime victory, notre “There’s going to be holes in however, ruptured his Achilles and he’s not afraid to display playing style is well suited for dame’s defense denied its op-the defense at times in certain tendon during fall practice and that emotion,” senior line-the Irish defense. ponent a touchdown for the spots. You try and hide those was shelved for the season, backer manti Te’o said. “I “every player plays a differ-fourth consecutive game. spots. making Jackson the position’s think bennett’s strength is that ent way. every player has his “We thought this was a step 
“We all have a good relation-senior member. bennett hates to lose. he hates own style of playing,” Te’o said. up for him,” Kelly said after the ship and communicate back Jackson, however, has main-to lose, and he especially hates “I think on the defensive side, win. “We asked him to step his and forth.” tained the swagger he exuded to be the reason why we lost. it’s just a different mental-play up. … bennett did a great 
After the graduation of 2011 as notre dame’s special Teams now he’s never been the rea-ity. Football is a very physical job of stepping up his play and starting cornerbacks Gary Gray Player of the Year in 2010 and son why we’ve lost, and he has game, and you just have got to putting himself in a very, very approach this game from a dif-good position to help us. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
ferent set of eyes and you have “so we are really pleased to do a lot of hitting. so I think with [the secondary] and the when you play with emotion, progress they are making each it helps to get yourself in that and every week.” mindset.” And it starts with the receiv-
Irish coach brian Kelly said er-turned-cornerback, who is he issued a challenge to Jackson at the top of his game when prior to the stanford game after he’s adapting. Jackson was losing ground to fellow starter Keivarae russell, Contact Andrew Owens at a true freshman. aowens2@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 








SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 
EAGLES PASSING receiver-turned-running back david 
The eagles come into their biggest dudeck, who has rushed for 56 yards this game of the year with the 27th-best season. dudeck started the year out of passing offense in the country, averag-the rotation but was upgraded to boston ing 289.2 passing yards per game. Junior college’s third-down back following the quarterback chase rettig, who has eagles first win against maine on sept. thrown for 2,561 yards, 16 touchdowns 8. meanwhile, the average height of the and eight interceptions, directs the boston college offensive line is 6-foot-5 boston college attack. rettig averag-and average weight is 306 pounds. es 284.6 passing yards per game, good The notre dame defense has allowed enough for third in the Acc and 18th in only two rushing touchdowns all year, the nation. rettig has had three 300-plus best in the nation. both of those touch-yard performances this season, includ-downs have come in the last two weeks, ing a career-high 441 passing yards in a to oklahoma sophomore quarterback 41-32 season-opening loss against miami blake bell and  Pittsburgh senior run-on sept. 1. That performance put him ning back ray Graham. Graham gashed sixth on the boston college single-game the Irish for 172 rushing yards and a records list and the highest for an eagles touchdown on 24 carries. The Irish also quarterback since 1993. Last season in have the 11th best rushing defense in the a 16-14 loss to the Irish on nov. 19, 2011, country, giving up 100.7 rushing yards rettig threw for 170 and a touchdown on per game. 18-for-38 passing. EDGE: NOTRE DAME 

Undisputadly rettig’s favorite tar­get, junior receiver Alex Amidon has EAGLES OFFENSIVE COACHING six games of over 100 yards this season. defensive coordinator bob diaco will Amidon has already totaled 1,073 receiv-have to deal with another pass-heavy ing yards and six touchdowns on 63 re-defense, but the eagles lack a solid run­ceptions. Amidon is only 76 yards shy of ning game. notre dame has had plen­breaking brian brennan’s single-season ty of success when making offenses school record of 1,149 receiving yards in one-dimensional. 1983. Against miami, Amidon caught 10 EDGE: NOTRE DAME passes for 149 yards and a touchdown. 

The Irish are ranked 21st in pass de-EAGLES SPECIAL TEAMS fense, giving up 194 passing yards per Junior kicker nate Freese has been game. senior linebacker manti Te’o leads consistent this year, hitting 12 of his 14 the Irish with five interceptions and is field goal attempts. both misses came second in the country. sophomore de-from 40-plus yards. boston college leads fensive end stephon Tuitt has 10 sacks, the country in punt returning, led by which puts him third in notre dame sin-sophomore receiver spiffy evans’ 31.6 gle-season history. yards per return. EDGE: EVEN EDGE: BOSTON COLLEGE 

EAGLES RUSHING EAGLES SCHEDULE 
The eagles only average 74.7 rush-sept. 1 Miami (FL) L 41-32 ing yards per game, placing them sept. 8   Maine               W 34-3 118th in the country. To make matters sept. 15 @ Northwestern               L 22-13   worse, boston college will be without sept. 29 Clemson             L 45-31 its leading rusher, junior running back oct. 6 @ Army                   L 34-31 Andre Williams. Williams has rushed oct. 13 @ Florida State L 51-7 635 yards and four touchdowns, but oct. 20 @ Georgia Tech               L 37-17 was injured in saturday’s 28-14 loss oct. 27 Maryland  W 20-17 to Wake Forest. Williams rushed for a nov. 3 @ Wake Forest L 28-14 season-high 191 yards and two touch-nov. 10 Notre Dame downs in a 34-31 loss to Army on oct. 6. nov. 17 Virginia Tech Williams will be replaced by freshman nov. 24 @ NC State 




HEAD TO 
BOSTON COLLEGE 

(Sr.) Nick Clancy 
54 MLB 

(Jr.) Alex Amidon (sr.) donte elliott  4  WR  
(Jr.) Johnathan Coleman (Fr.) dan crimmins  14 18  WR  
(Sr.) Emmett Cleary (r-Fr.) dan Lembke  77 71  LT  
(Fr.) David Dudeck (Jr.) rolandan Finch  26 28  RB  (So.) Bobby Vardaro (so.) harris Williams  76 64  LG  
(Jr.) Chase Rettig (so.) Josh bordner  11 8  QB  (So.) Andy Gallik (r-Fr.) Paul Gaughan  59 69  C  
(So.) Seth Betancourt (Jr.)bryan davis  67 60  RG  
(Sr.) John Wetzel (so.) Aaron Kramer  73 70  RT  
(Sr.) Chris Pantale (Fr.) mike Giacone  81 88  TE  
(Jr.) Bobby Swigert (so.) spiffy evans  10 7  WR  
(So.) Manuel Asprilla(Fr.) bryce Jones  21 17  CB  
(Fr.) Justin Simmons (so.) c.J. Jones  27 6  FS  (R-Fr.) Kieran Borcich (so.) mehdi Abdesmad  55 45  DE  
(Jr.) Steele Divitto (Fr.)Tim Joy  49 33  SLB  (R-Fr.) Connor Wujciak(so.) max ricci  90 98  DT  

(so.)  sean duggan 34 
52 (Sr.) Bryan Murray 
(Fr.) Steven Daniels 
(so.) Josh Keyes 25 (so.) dominic Appiah 95



WLB 93 DT 
99 DE
(So.) Brian Mihalik 
(Sr.) Jim Noel 23 (Jr.) Kasim edebali 91 (so.) spenser  rositano 43 
SS 
19 CB

(So.) Sean Sylvia
(r-Fr.)  Ameer richardson 43 
85 85

(Jr.) Nate Freese 
(Jr.) Nate Freese 
PK
KO (r-Fr.) Alex howell 42 (r-Fr.) Alex howell 42 
32 P 7


(Sr.) Gerald Levano 
(So.) Spiffy Evans
KR (r-Fr.) Alex howell 42 (Fr.) bryce Jones 17 
7 PR 57


(So.) Spiffy Evans 
(Sr.) Sean Flaherty 
LS 
(Fr.) bryce Jones 17 (sr.) dave shinskie 15 

Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
For as tough as bYU was and as scrappy as Pittsburgh was, only one word comes to mind to describe boston college: bad. It’s a real shame the eagles aren’t better — remember, the team that knocked off the Irish in 2002 finished 9-3 — but it’s pretty clear that coach Frank spaziani has not been able to make his mark on the program. 
only one team from a bcs conference has a worse rush defense than boston college: miami. notre dame ran all over the hurricanes for nearly 400 yards, and another ex­plosion like that is coming again this weekend. The rotating backfield has helped cierre Wood, Theo riddick, George Atkinson and, yes, cam mcdaniel stay fresh late into the season. never will that be more obvious than saturday night. everett Golson won’t have to do nearly as much as last week. 



Andrew Owens 
Assistant managing editor 
one would think the 29-26 overtime victory over Pittsburgh will be the final scare the Irish face until the Thanksgiving weekend clash in Los Angeles against Usc. With a couple of Acc bottom-feeders next on the slate, that’s probably a pretty good bet. 
You can never fully count boston college out when it comes to ruining a perfect Irish season (see 1993 and 2002). but this eagles team has about as much talent as head coach Frank spaziani has a chance of keeping his job past this season. 
boston college is the second-worst rush defense notre dame has faced this season, and the Irish gashed the other (miami) for 376 yards. This weekend should result in a simi­lar beatdown as the Irish improve to 10-0. 



Chris Allen 
sports editor 
This year’s Irish team has played its best football away from the friendlier confines of notre dame stadium. This time the host is a lackluster boston college team that is in­ferior to the Irish at nearly every position. still, notre dame will have its guard up against a rival that has made a habit of ruining notre dame’s perfect seasons. The difference be­tween those upset-minded 1993 and 2002 eagles teams and this year’s iteration is the coaching. 
both Tom coughlin — yes, that Tom coughlin — in 1993 and Tom o’brien in 2002 had their respective teams ready to compete with top Irish teams. current eagles coach Frank spaziani has the boston college program at an unfathom­able low considering where the eagles were just a handful of years ago. This is a mismatch all around. 

FINAL SCORE: notre dame 42, boston college 10 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 38, boston college 6 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 30, boston college 7 








O HEAD 

NO. 4 NOTRE DAME 

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 
IRISHPASSING Irish with 85 rushing yards on 22 car-on saturday, sophomore quarterback ries. senior running back cierre Wood KeiVarae Russell (Fr.) 
everett Golson led the Irish in a fourth rushed for 70 yards on 13 carries, but 

CB 43 Josh Atkinson (so.) 
quarter comeback, facing a 14-point fumbled at the goal line in the second deficit with 14 minutes left in the fourth overtime that nearly cost the Irish the quarter. The first-year starter threw game. Golson rushed for 74 yards on 15 

Danny Spond (Jr.) 

OLB 
for 227 yards and two touchdowns on carries, including the game-winning 
30 ben councell (so.) 


Zeke Motta (Sr.) 



29 nicky baratti (Fr.) 23-for-42 passing. both of Golson’s touchdown on a quarterback sneak in 
S

Kapron Lewis-Moore (Gr.) 


touchdown passes came in the fourth the third overtime. Golson also rushed 
DE 
91 sheldon day (Fr.) 

Dan Fox (Sr.) quarter, as did an interception in the for the game-tying two-point conver-


ILB 
44 carlo calabrese (sr.) 

Louis Nix (Jr.) end zone. Golson is 7-0 as a starter, put-sion with 2:11 left in the fourth quarter. 
NG 
Kona schwenke (Jr.) 


Manti Te’o (Sr.) ting him in a tie for fourth in consecu-boston college is ranked 116th in the 


96 ILB 
59 Jarrett Grace (so.) 

DE 
Stephon Tuitt (So.) tive wins by a notre dame quarterback naiton in rushing defense, giving up 
69 Tony springmann (so.) 

Matthias Farley (So.) to start his career. 233.33 rushing yards per game. In a 34­
24 chris salvi (sr.) 

S 
sophomore receiver davaris daniels 31 loss to Army’s triple-option offense, 
Prince Shembo (Jr.) 

OLB 
11 Ishaq Williams (so.) had the best game of his young col-the eagles gave up 516 rushing yards, legiate career, setting career highs in including three Army rushers with over both receptions and passing yards with 100-plus yard rushing performances. 
CB 
21 Bennett Jackson (Jr.) seven catches for 86 yards. daniels’ senior linebacker nick clancy leads the 
Jalen brown (so.) 

biggest contribution came on a 45-yard eagles with 107 tackles this season. catch that set up the game-tying touch-EDGE: NOTRE DAME down pass to senior running back Theo riddick in the fourth quarter. senior IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 

T.J.Jones (Jr.) 


10 
tight end Tyler eifert recorded a season Irish coach brian Kelly managed 
WR 
davaris daniels (so.) 

high six receptions for 62 yards. Golson well following the sophomore’s 

Robby Toma (Sr.) 

RT 

19 davonte’ neal (Fr.) The eagles are in the middle of the benching in the second quarter and pack in terms of passing defense, giving maneuvered a three-turnover effort. up 245.22 passing yards per game. In a Going against a spotty boston college Christian Lombard (Jr.) 28-14 loss to Wake Forest on saturday, rushing defense, the notre dame game-
WR 

64 Tate nichols (Jr.) 

demon deacons junior quarterback plan must be to run the ball. 

Theo Riddick (Sr.) 
Mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) 


51 
20 cierre Wood (sr.) Tanner Price threw for 293 yards, one EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
RBRG 
bruce heggie (Jr.) 


interception and tied a career high 

Everett Golson (So.) 
Braxston Cave (Gr.) 

QB
C 

57 mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) 11 Tommy rees (Jr.) with three touchdowns. Price’s 39 IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS completions was a career high for the sophomore kicker Kyle brindza 

Chris Watt (Sr.) 
65 conor hanratty (so.) 

LG 
third-year starter. In the eagles’ 20-17 missed his sixth field goal of the 
LT 

Zack Martin (Sr.) win over maryland on oct. 27, boston year and also missed an extra point 
78 ronnie stanley (Fr.) 


college recorded three interceptions. saturday. The Irish are 115th in the 
TE 
Tyler Eifert (Sr.) sophomore safety spenser rositano nation punt returning, averaging 2.62 
18 ben Koyack (so.) 

leads the eagles with three intercep-yards per return. senior punter ben tions, while sophomore cornerback Turk has averaged 41 yards per punt. 
WR 

John Goodman (Gr.) sean sylvia is third on the team with 75 EDGE: EVEN 
87 daniel smith (Jr.) 
tackles. 

EDGE: NOTRE DAME IRISH SCHEDULE 

sept. 1 vs. Navy W 50-10 IRISH RUSHING sept. 8 Purdue W 20-17 only two notre dame teams have sept. 15 @ Michigan State W 20-3 averaged over 200 passing and 200 sept. 22 Michigan W 13-6 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 


40 nick Tausch (sr.) 
40 nick Tausch (sr.) rushing yards in the same season. oct. 6 vs. Miami W 41-3 
KO 
PK 
This notre dame team averages 204.1 oct. 13 Stanford W 20-13 (OT) 


George Atkinson (So.) 
Ben Turk (Sr.) 

6 Theo riddick (sr.) 27 Kyle brindza (so.) 
KR 
P 
passing yards and 200.3 rushing yards oct. 20 BYU W 17-14 
PR 
LS 

Davonte’ Neal (Fr.) per game. notre dame’s 200.3 rushing oct. 27 @ Oklahoma W 30-13 

Jordan Cowart (Sr.) 


61 scott daly (Fr.) 81 John Goodman (Gr.) 
yards puts the Irish at 30th in the coun-nov. 3 Pittsburgh W 29-26 (3OT) try. Against Pittsburgh, the Irish rushed nov. 10 @ Boston College for 231 yards, part of notre dame’s 522 nov. 17 Wake Forest total yards saturday. riddick led the nov. 24 @ USC 



Andrew Gastelum 
Associate sports editor 

This isn’t 2011. That is apparent in the 9-0 record the Irish sport today. 
A year ago, a 3-7 boston college squad meandered into south bend and nearly upset the lethargic Irish, who went on to win 16-14. 
This time around notre dame will be ready. The Irish, for whatever reason, excel away from notre dame stadium. There are less distractions and football just comes easier when everyone wants you to mess up. 
Look for cierre Wood, Theo riddick, George Atkinson and the recently unleashed everett Golson to run around this boston college defense and put up some big numbers in beantown. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 39, boston college 8 



Matthew DeFranks 
Associate sports editor 
There’s no place like the road, huh? 
For most teams, that is not even close to the case. but for this year’s Irish, that has been the truth. They have out­scored opponents by 24 more points away from notre dame stadium than in cozy south bend. 
so if you’re worried about another possible heart-attack, upset scare by an overmatched opponent, you should not be concerned about boston college. The eagles gave notre dame a good fight last year on senior day but bring in a de­fense that is worse than anything the Irish have faced this season. before a win over maryland, boston college had registered only one other victory — against maine. Yes, maine. Look for the running game to dominate as the Irish cruise to 10-0. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 52, boston college 9 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 





Kelly caught in another postseason dilemma 

By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Associate sports editor 
Just three years ago, then­bearcats coach brian Kelly had to fend off bcs hype and keep his 9-0 cincinnati team focused on the homestretch. In 2012, the Irish coach finds himself in a similar situation with a 9-0 notre dame team. 
but now, Kelly has experience on his side. 
“I think I’ve handled it in the same way [as cincinnati],” Kelly said. “I never went out in the media and tried to defend what we did. All I said was that the schedule was set, here is who we play, and all we can do and all we can control is win­ning these football games.” 
At 9-0 for the first time since 1993, the Irish have faced their fair share of detractors, with many calling attention to the weakened state of the big Ten and sub-par performances at home. The Irish currently sit behind Alabama, Kansas state and oregon in the latest bcs standings, after dropping one spot following oregon’s 62-51 win at no. 17 Usc on saturday. 
At cincinnati in 2009, Kelly’s bearcats held strong at no. 
5 in the bcs for much of the season, waiting for an upset of a ranked team. similar to that cincinnati team, the Irish enter the lighter part of their schedule waiting for a top-three upset. but Kelly said the rankings at this point in the season is out of his control. 
“I knew we couldn’t con­trol the ultimate goal,” he said. “We couldn’t control it in cincinnati. The way the bcs is set up right now, if you have more than two undefeated teams you can’t control it. 
“now, in two years when you have four teams that can play, yeah, now you can con­trol things a little bit more. You may be talking more about your teams. but you can’t now. maybe in two years you’ll find me talking a lot more about it.” 
That cincinnati team even­tually moved up to no. 3 in the bcs by regular season’s end, and was nearly in contention for a national championship berth until no. 2 Texas won the big 12 championship with a last-second field goal. If Texas would have lost the title game to nebraska, the bearcats would have been one of two undefeated teams from a bcs conference going into bowl selection sunday. 
“If a field goal goes awry against nebraska, Texas, it changes things,” Kelly said. “It could be the same situation again with notre dame three years later. I can’t control any of that. What I can control is to make sure that these guys play better against [boston college].” 
While notre dame carries more bcs clout than his former cincinnati squad, Kelly said he was unsure where the Irish could end up given the num­ber of remaining undefeated teams ahead in the rankings.
 “If you told me that Alabama and oregon were also unde­feated as well as notre dame, I would say, ‘Well, there is a chance,’” Kelly said. “Those are teams that have been here and done that. notre dame hasn’t done it in a while. Those teams are undefeated, too. I would say, ‘Well, there is a chance we may get left out.’” 
When asked whether the un­defeated season and high bcs ranking meant notre dame “is back,” Kelly said he will leave it up to everyone else to decide. 
“I don’t know that we have a measuring stick for it,” Kelly said. “I think it’s measured by everybody else in terms wins and losses. our players want to win as well, but I don’t think it’s something that we really spend much time thinking about relative to we’re back or not back. I think we take care of how we play on saturdays, and then we kind of let other people decide whether that’s the case or not.” 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 


BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 




KIRBY McKENNA | The Observer  KIRBY McKENNA | The Observer  
Irish senior running back Cierre Wood breaks a tackle during Notre Dame’s 16-14 win over Boston College  Irish junior quarterback Tommy Rees surveys the field during Notre  
on Nov. 19, 2011, at Notre Dame Stadium. Wood finished the day with 94 yards on 26 carries.  Dame’s 16-14 win over Boston College on Nov. 19, 2011.  

PAId AdverTIsemenT 


SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 
A Boston College defender tackles Irish junior receiver TJ Jones during Notre Dame’s 16-14 win over Boston College on Nov. 19, 2011. 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 



eagles aim to knock off another top Irish team 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
editor-in-chief 
The story is well-known by now: notre dame rises up the rankings, wins high-profile games and protects an unde­feated record through most of the season. Then it meets boston college, and the dream is over. The eagles (2-7) will try to follow the examples of 1993 and 2002 when they attempt to upend the Irish (9-0) this week­end in chestnut hill, mass. 
In 1993, Irish coach Lou holtz coached his team to a 9-0 record and no. 1 ranking following the “Game of the century” against then-no. 1 Florida state. one week later, the eagles came to town and derailed notre dame’s national title hopes in a 41-39 victory. In 2002, first-year coach Tyrone Willingham led the Irish to an 8-0 start that culminated with a signature win at Florida state. The next week, Willingham gave his players green jerseys in an at­tempt to keep them motivated, but boston college forced five turnovers to send notre dame into a late-season tailspin. Irish coach brian Kelly says the past will not have any effect on his squad. 
“history will have no effect on how this team plays,” Kelly said sunday. “I really focus strictly on the guys that are in the room and how we prepare them. I do not use history les­sons as much as I want them to realize what it takes to win week-in and week-out.” 
The 1993 boston college squad finished 9-3, while the 2002 team finished 9-4. This year’s eagles have no such fin­ish ahead of them under em­battled coach Frank spaziani, but they want to pull off the up­set nonetheless. 
“obviously we have a very talented and well-coached football team coming into our stadium here,” spaziani said. “They have sights on the na­tional championship. so we’ve got our work cut out for us, and we’re practicing trying to get ready for them.” 
Kelly said he had continued to warn his players that the eagles would try and salvage their sea­son by knocking off the Irish. 
“The head of a champion understands that each and ev­ery week you’re going to get the opposition’s very best,” he said. “We have to be able to understand that when we play the game on saturday. … our players understand that if they don’t play their best they can get beat. [I have] a lot of respect for boston college and the way they run their program and the way their kids play on a day-to­day basis.” 
eagles sophomore receiver spiffy evans is having a re­markable year returning punts, averaging nearly 32 yards per return. 
“I think we’ve done a good job on our punt return scheme, Xs and os, and then I think spiffy has gotten a little more con­fidence and he knows where we’re going,” spaziani said. “You put it all together, and it leads you to a 31-yard average, which has been a big plus for us.” 
Though notre dame’s special-teams units were in­consistent last week against Pittsburgh, Kelly said the big­ger-picture view of the return game was more favorable. 
“I still keep coming back to oklahoma, [which] could not return one punt against us, and they’ve got a dynamic return­er,” Kelly said. “When you look at it, we’ve only had six punts returned against us all year.” 
Last year on notre dame’s senior day, the Irish had to re­cover a late onside kick to seal a 16-14 victory. Kelly said he has not forgotten that experience. 
“[They’re] a team that has played us very, very well,” he said. “This past year obviously at home we had to make some big stops late to win the football game.” 



spaziani, however, said re­cent history was not a perfect guide. 
“Well, you know, certainly positive past experience is good for your psyche. but that’s lim­ited,” he said. “I mean, this is a different team and different players. … but yeah, there’s some positive carryover. but once again, it is different from year to year. These are totally two different teams.” 


Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 




WAKING THE ECHOES | dAvId Gordon 


Gordon derails championship run in ’93 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate sports editor 
When david Gordon got back to chestnut hill, mass., at 1 a.m. on nov. 21, 1993, he saw some­thing he had never seen before 
— a mob waiting to greet the boston college football team. 
When he got back to his town­house, he found something en­tirely different. 
“some of the students ac­tually dragged the goalposts from [Alumni stadium] to my backyard where I live, waiting for me to come,” Gordon said in a phone interview with The observer. “It was just a mob of people who just dragged the goalposts about 3,000 feet from the stadium to the back of the yard. my coach wasn’t too hap­py about that because we had to get new goalposts.” 
Just hours earlier, Gordon dashed notre dame’s national championship hopes and de­stroyed its perfect season with a 41-yard game-winning field goal that gave the eagles a 41-39 win over the then-no. 1 Irish at notre dame stadium. 

The year before, notre dame “I knew in the fourth quarter, game.” dame players, the eagles started to appreciate what that pounded boston college 54-7. I knew notre dame was going before Gordon got the chance stormed the field and celebrat-game meant.” Gordon said the eagles used to come back,” Gordon said. to nail the field goal and notre ed — and it all centered around The win marked the first the bitter taste as motivation. “You kind of get that sense of dame’s coffin, the lefty kick-Gordon. Within 10 seconds of time the eagles beat the Irish 
“They really ran up the score momentum, our defense was er received a pep talk from the game ending, Gordon was after losing the previous four; on us [in 1992],” Gordon said. starting to get a little tired but an unlikely source — eagles buried beneath a pile of jubi-boston college won again the “It’s a big game for us because our offense really was moving coach Tom coughlin, now a lant teammates. next year. notre dame leads of the rivalry. We kind of dedi-the ball well.” head coach with the new York “I regret that one,” Gordon the overall series 12-9 but the cate our offseason to prepare boston college quarterback Giants. said. “everything was mov-eagles are 2-0 against top-5 for that one game.” Glenn Foley led the eagles “That was interesting. That ing so quickly and I was just Irish squads, including a 14-7 
In 1993, notre dame entered down the field in six plays, set-was really the first time in the so focused on making the win at notre dame stadium in the game at 10-0 and no. 1 in ting up a 41-yard attempt, the game [that he talked to me]. he kick. I’m not one of those guys 2002 when the Irish were 8-0 the country after a 31-24 win longest of Gordon’s career, with really had never said anything that runs around and makes a and coming off an emotional over then-no. 1 Florida state just five ticks left on the clock. to me at any time,” Gordon big celebration. It was a scary win over Florida state. in a game dubbed the “Game “A lot of my teammates did said. “he said ‘I know you can situation because I had a hard some have credited Gordon of the century.” The eagles, end up talking to me [during make the kick, just make good time breathing. I thought I with creating a rivalry between meanwhile, came into south the drive],” Gordon said. “They contact with the ball.’ Just all was going to suffocate because the two catholic schools but he bend riding a seven-game win-didn’t say a whole lot to me but positive talk and I think it really I was on the bottom of the shrugged off the notion. ning streak. they came up to me and said helped me calm down because pile … If I could do it all over “one person does not really 
boston college held a 38-‘We know you can make this I was really, really nervous.” again, I would have ran to the make or break a game,” Gordon 17 lead with 11 minutes in the kick. don’t get too nervous. You The eagles lined up just in-sidelines.” said. “I helped contribute in game before the Irish scored deserve to be out here. You’ve side the left hash mark facing Gordon survived the mish winning the game for us. As 22 unanswered points to grab worked hard for this opportu-the tunnel and Touchdown mash of maroon and gold bod-far as me personally impact-a one-point advantage with nity.’ It was all just encouraging Jesus, a landmark Gordon said ies but would he have survived ing [the rivalry], I don’t believe a little more than a minute words they gave me. They knew he was aiming for. had he missed the kick? that was the case. There were remaining. I was going in there to win the “The sun was setting when I “It probably would have im-so many other plays in that 
made the kick and back then, pacted my life significantly,” game that if we didn’t make, it they didn’t have permanent Gordon said. “If I ever have a wouldn’t have even mattered at lights and the lighting was not bad day or any bad thoughts, the end.” great. The one thing I could see I think about that game and Gordon still has not returned was the gold on Touchdown all my bad thoughts and feel-to notre dame since that game Jesus which really helped me,” ings go away. It’s such a turn-but said he runs into notre Gordon said. ing point in my life. It’s such a dame fans all the time. 
The kick veered right initially special moment that I’ll never “They can’t stand me and before swerving back to the forget it.” they’re really upset,” Gordon left and finishing square in the The kick opened the door for said. “They’re like, ‘how could middle of the goalposts with no Florida state to sneak back to you do that?’ and they’re very time remaining. The kick si-no. 1 and notre dame was de-upset because they’re very pas­lenced nearly 60,000 spectators nied its second national title in sionate about their football. I at notre dame stadium and six years in a controversial fin-just say ‘sorry but this was our stunned a previously undefeat-ish to the season. It has not won day that day.’ That’s all I tell ed Irish team. a championship since 1988 and them.” 
“I knew I hit it really good. has not been ranked in the top Gordon played in nFL I knew I had the distance,” spot since that game. europe and tried out for some Gordon said. “I rushed a little “To me, I just thought it was nFL teams before retiring from bit and the ball had a little bit a game,” Gordon said. “I didn’t football. he now runs a home of a play in it where it kind of really see the impact until I building business in Avon, went from right to left. When started getting all these let-connecticut with his wife, you hear a thud, you know it ters and calls and interviews. connie. The couple has three was blocked. When I heard it I knew it was a big game but I kids. wasn’t blocked, I knew I hit it didn’t really know the impact well enough to make the kick.” of costing the national champi-Contact Matthew DeFranks at 
Amidst heartbroken notre onship. As time went on, I really mdefrank@nd.edu 



Observer File Photo Observer File Photo 
Former Eagles quarterback Glenn Foley throws a pass during Boston College’s 41-39 Former Irish running back Ryan Grant holds his head in disbelief after then-No. 4 win over then-No. 1 Notre Dame on Nov. 20, 1993, at Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame’s 14-7 loss to Boston College on Nov. 2, 2002, at Notre Dame Stadium. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 





