
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Non-profit benefits Honduras 
By MARIELLE HAMPE 
News Writer 
A Notre Dame alumnus is work­ing with the non-profit organiza­tion Unión MicroFinanza (UMF) to make the caffeine fix students crave between classes benefit rural coffee farmers in La Unión, Honduras. 
Jeremy Miller, a 1996 graduate, said as the U.S. Coffee Program Director, he works with UMF to im­prove impoverished communities in Honduras through the sale of coffee, one of the nation’s main exports. 
“If you don’t know where your coffee is coming from, chances are it’s grown by people without infra­structure who are living in poverty. To me, there is no reason for that,” Miller said. “Where we work, more than one-half of the population lives on less than $2 a day, the definition of poverty.” 
He said UMF helps farmers pro­duce high-quality coffee and sell to wider markets through microfi­nance systems, coffee purchases, infrastructure projects and job training. After the coffee harvest, he said UMF pays the farmers more money than they would typically receive.  In two months, Miller will move to Honduras with his wife and two children to become UMF’s Head of Honduran Operations. There, he will be in charge of ser­vice, microfinance and coffee train­ing programs. 
Miller said he credits Notre 

see HONDURAS/page 5 


ND explains lack of medical amnesty 
University cites disciplinary process, Christian community; SMC supports policy 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
Managing Editor 
Shortly before senior Kat Rodri­guez’s last home football game as a student, she was returning to a tailgate near Notre Dame Stadium when she tripped on a bicycle and gashed open her forehead. 
Blood and beer spilled to the ground as Rodriguez, who was of legal drinking age, fell to the ground. 
Senior Tom Burns and a friend saw Rodriguez fall and helped her to a Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) officer. But before doing so, a thought crossed Burns’ mind — Would Rodriguez, or his friend who was intoxicated and underage, get in trouble? 
“For a split second, it crossed my mind,” Burns said. 
Burns ignored that thought and sought medical treatment for Ro­driguez, who received stitches at a local hospital for her injury. As a result of Burns’ action, an NDSP officer nearly arrested Burns’ un­derage friend and Rodriguez re­ceived disciplinary action from the University for being intoxicated in public. 

Dozens of schools across the country — including Notre Dame’s sister school Saint Mary’s College 
— have policies in place to formally protect students like Rodriguez, Burns and Burns’ friend from get­ting in trouble with the Univer­sity when seeking out or receiving medical treatment. 
Notre Dame is not one of them. 
The Notre Dame philosophy 

When Notre Dame was consider­ing revising its student handbook, du Lac, in 2010, student govern-


Seniors reflect during retreat 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
With seven semesters be­hind them and one to go, more than 150 seniors will spend time reflecting on their Notre Dame experiences at the Se­nior Retreat this weekend, ac­cording to head organizer and senior Erin Connors. 
“It’s going to be a great weekend,” she said. “We’re fo­cusing on how to cherish the last five months of our senior year beyond the last things to check off the ‘bucket list.’” 
Connors has been plan­ning the retreat with senior Andrew Bell and 18 other students since Oct. 30. The retreat begins at 3:30 p.m. to-
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 

see RETREAT/page 5 

ment advocated for the inclusion of some form of medical amnesty. 
After discussing both a medi­cal amnesty policy, which protects the student needing medical as­sistance, and a Good Samaritan policy, which protects the student who seeks out assistance for the student in need, student govern­ment recommended the inclusion of the Good Samaritan policy. 
Both Student Senate and Council of Representatives, a body com­prised of students and rector rep­resentatives, passed resolutions recommending the policy. 
Across the United States, approx­imately 90 colleges and universi­ties have some form of a medical amnesty policy — many of which focus on alcohol use or drug use — according to Students for Sensible Drug Policy, an international group of students who say they are con­
cerned about drug use and push 
for sensible drug policies. 
However, the administration 
opted not to include such a policy in 
its du Lac revisions. Since the Office 
of Student Affairs and the Office of 
Residence Life, which handles stu­
dent conduct and discipline, under­
went major changes in organiza­
tion and leadership in the past year 
and a half, the University’s position 
on a medical amnesty policy has 
not changed. 
Brian Coughlin, the associate 
vice president for student develop­
ment who also oversees the Office 
of Residence Life, said the admin­
istration decided not to adopt the 
medical amnesty policy because it 
is essentially built into the Univer­
sity’s disciplinary system. 
When a student is charged with 


see AMNESTY/page 4 
Community rings in Chinese New Year 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame students rang in the Chi­nese New Year and celebrated the prevalent Chinese culture on both campuses Monday. In honor of the Year of the Drag­on, Saint Mary’s College and the Center of Women’s Inter-cultural Leadership (CWIL) will host its annual China Night at 7:30 p.m this Saturday in O’Laughlin Auditorium. 
Alice Siqin Yang, assistant director for Global Education at CWIL, said China Night is a valued tradition on campus.
 “China Night is actually not new on Saint Mary’s campus,” she said. “It was held by both Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame Chinese students first in 1967. I am glad that we are able to host it again after 50 years.” 
Yang said China Night is de­signed to teach students and community members about other cultures, as well as en­tertain.  
“It offers a platform for stu­dents and community people to learn more about Chinese culture,” Yang said. 
Huyaling (Nora) Wang, a first year international student from China who helped CWIL 
see CHINA/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Senior interns at Sundance page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Style with Sean page 8 u Men’s basketball prepares for UConn game page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Friday, January 27, 2012 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD HAVE ANY JOB IN THE WORLD, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Annie Struemph  Kelsey Christofell  Michael Rossi  Emily Cook  Anthony Meena  Michael Ferguson  
junior McGlinn  senior Lyons  sophomore off campus  senior Lyons  sophomore Alumni  senior Morrissey  
“A princess.”  “A professional spelunker.”  “General manager for the  “A beer taster.”  “Trophy husband.”  “A model for The Observer.”  
New York Jets.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Nicole Toczauer Jillian Barwick Bridget Feeney 
Graphics 
Marina Kozak 
Photo 
Kirby McKenna 
Sports 

Chris Allen Megan Finneran Mike Monaco 
Scene 

Kevin Noonan 
Viewpoint 

Amber Galik 
OFFBEAT 
Lamb with six legs born in Eastern European village 
GEORGIA — A six-legged lamb was born recently in a small village in the eastern European nation Georgia. The lamb was also report­edly born with both male and female sexual organs. 
Shephard Albert Abadzh­anov tells the newspaper Trend that in his 25 years of shepharding that he’s never seen such a case. 
“I have been asking the other shepherds, but none of them remember such (a) case. There were three-legged lambs, one-eyed, but not (a) six legged, bisexual one. The lamb eats well, but moves with difficulty.” Abadzhanov said. 
The lamb was born with four front legs and two back legs. It appears to have at least partial control of all six limbs, according to the Daily Mail. 


Veterinarian Otto Zar­diashvili tells Trend that the six-legged baby lamb is an anomaly. “Most probably there were twins, but then the embryos were united, and we’ve got a strange lamb,” Zardiashvili said. 
Study finds that fried food is not a cause of heart disease 
BRITAIN — A new study has found that there is no di­rect correlation between the amount of fried food people eat and their risk of heart disease. Instead, the research found that long-term heart risk depended more on what kind of oil was used in the cooking process — olive oil 
LOCAL WEATHER 
and sunflower oil are consid­ered the healthiest. 
The study, published in the British Medical Journal, studied the eating and cook­ing habits of 40,000 people in Spain for nearly 15 years. The Mediterranean diet fa­vored by most individuals in the study leans heavily on fried foods, particularly fried fish, but also the healthier ol­ive and sunflower oils for the frying. 
Now, before you throw cau­tion to the wind and sign a Jumbaco petition, bear in mind that not only do those fatty foods contain more sodi­um and calories, most Ameri­cans use less healthy oils to fry their foods. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Center for Social Concerns will host a dis­cussion in the Soup and Substance series in the Geddes Hall Coffee House from 12 to 1 p.m. today. The discussion topic is race and two monologues will be read. Free soup will be provided. 
The Notre Dame Gong Fu Club will host an in­formational meeting in Room 109 of Rockne  Me­morial from 5:15 to 6:15 
p.m. today. ND/SMC/HCC students, faculty and staff of all ages are invited to at­tend. No martial arts expe­rience is required. 
The DeBartolo Perform­ing Arts Center will host a showing of the 2011 film “The Guard” tonight at 
6:30 and again at 9:30 p.m. The film is the story of an unorthodox policeman and a straitlaced FBI agent who join forces to take down an international drug smug­gling gang. Tickets are $3 for students. 
The Student Union Board is showing “Moneyball” to­night at 8 and 10:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall. The film will also be shown Sat­urday at 7 and 9:30 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students. 
The Student Activities Office is hosting a late-night ice sculpting event at Fieldhouse Mall to­night from 9 p.m. to 12 
a.m. There will be free hot chocolate provided by the South Bend Chocolate Com­pany. The event is free to ND/SMC/HCC students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 








CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
HIGH 39 LOW 30 

HIGH 35 LOW 28 
HIGH 29 LOW 20 
HIGH 34 LOW 33 
HIGH 44 LOW 34 

Friday, January 27, 2012 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Student interns at this year’s Sundance festival 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Far from the cold of South Bend winter, senior Audrey Mitchell is spending her winter as an intern at the Sundance Film Festival in Park City, Utah. 
The Film, Television and The­ater (FTT) and English major said the internship opportunity was offered to her by a con­tact she made working at the 
Cannes  Film  
Festival  last  
May.  
“There  are  



people that go “Just being in this from festival to environment, in this festival,” Mitch-experience, is amazing. ell said.  “If you Everyone here loves 
make those con-

film and wants to 
tacts then you’ll 

work in film.” 
have a better chance at get-

Audrey Mitchell 
ting to go to the next festival.” senior 
Now, Mitch­ell is spending the beginning of her last se­mester at Notre Dame working at a screening venue reserved for Sundance press and indus­try viewings, where she has im­mersed herself in the festival while selling tickets and usher­ing shows. 
“Just being in this environ­ment, in this experience, is amazing.  Everyone here loves film and wants to work in film,” Mitchell said 
Mitchell said though the long hours can be tiring, she attends events after work to build her contact base in the hopes of se­curing a position in the industry after graduation. 
“I have been in the press of­fice all day,” Mitchell said, “and then I have to go to my ushering job until 10 tonight.  Then after work there are a lot of cool films 
and events where you can go and network.” 
Mitchell said that she was excited to attend a performance by Joseph Gordon-Lev­itt and his production company hitRECord. org Thursday night. 
Outsid e of work, network­ing and eve­ning events, 
Mitchell spends most of her time with a group of 12 fellow “film nerds.” 
“We text each other when we see anything important, if we hear about any free tickets, or if we see anyone important,” Mitchell said. 
After graduation, Mitchell said she plans to enter the in­dustry through film production or festival coordination. 
“I’m looking at a couple in­ternship options with LA-based production companies, but right now it’s all about making con­nections,” she said. 
The experience has been in­tense at times but extremely re­warding and enjoyable, she said. 
“When I’m working with film it doesn’t feel like work.  It just feels like I’m here and I’m ex­cited,” she said. “I haven’t slept in four days — but that’s awe­some.” 
Mitchell will return to campus next week to complete her final semester at Notre Dame and graduate with the senior class in May. 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 

South Bend bishop speaks on faith and reason at SMC 
By CHRISTIN KLOSKI at Saint Mary’s on Thursday. nas, Pope John Paul II and Pope truth proper to the human per-“Both trace back to one News Writer In his lecture, “Symposium on Benedict XVI. son and this search involves ris-source of all truth,” Rhoades St. Thomas Aquinas; Contem-He said these ideas could be ing under the two wings of faith said. “Divine logos, active in Bishop Kevin Rhoades of Dio-plation by Faith and Reason,” incorporated in students’ lives and reason,” he said. both contexts, is that of creation 
cese of Fort Wayne-South Bend Rhoades discussed the impor-through dialogue on faith and He said a Catholic is only able and that of redemption.” 
spoke about how students can tance of the essence of truth in reason. to overcome doubts, resist skep-Rhoades said humans demon-
incorporate faith and reason modern skepticism through the “A college is called to be a ticism and build faith by under-strate an endless determination 
into their daily lives at a lecture writings of Saint Thomas Aqui-house where one seeks the standing beliefs built on reason. to know the truth throughout history. From Greek philoso­phers to contemporary theolo­gians, the search for something more than reality has been un­ceasing, he said. “Deep within every one of us, every human being, there is a natural desire, an innate desire to know the truth,” Rhoades said. He said Catholics discover the meaning of truth is hopeless without God through this pro­cess. Guidance from professors and mentors is extremely impor­tant in furthering the religious education of college students, Rhoades said. Many students develop their understanding of truth through observations on moral, religious and social is­sues during their college years, he said. Saint Mary’s President Carol Ann Mooney said faith and rea­son are incorporated into stu­dent life at Saint Mary’s through classes and social interactions on campus. “Saint Mary’s is open to the truth and it can be included naturally within the college it­self,” Mooney said. 

Contact Christin Kloski at           cklosk@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Friday, January 27, 2012 
a violation, he or she undergoes an Saint Mary’s policies cover alcohol evaluation process in the Office of or drug-related emergencies. They Residence Life, during which “the do not cover a situation in which nature of the offense and the cir-nobody seeks help for a student, cumstances surrounding it … will and they do not protect the student be among the factors considered in if she breaks another College rule, determining a sanction,” according Tchakerian said. to du Lac’s website. Tchakerian said such policies do 
While student government want-not conflict with the College’s Catho­ed a more formal policy in place, lic teaching, but rather supplement Coughlin said some questioned why it. a medical amnesty policy would be “It reinforces doing the right thing needed at Notre Dame, “where the and the College supports doing the spirit of Christian community is so right thing,” she said. “It only rein-strong.” forces the [Christian] philosophy.” 
“It is hard to fathom one Notre Tchakerian said these policies Dame student acting so much out protect Saint Mary’s students wher­of a perceived self-interest that they ever the emergency takes place — may not help a fellow student in even if it occurs on Notre Dame’s need because they are more wor-campus. ried about potential discipline,” “Because she is a Saint Mary’s student body chief of staff, said he and incorporate policy changes that As for Rodriguez, her main con-Coughlin said. “I recall one state-student, she falls under our rules was initially disappointed when the will focus on student safety rather cern after her injury and getting ment that questioned what kind of regardless of where that action oc-University rejected student govern-than on trying to discipline students a University sanction, commonly place Notre Dame would become if curs,” she said. ment’s 2010 recommendation to in emergency situations,” he said. called a Res Life, was not for herself, we have to start legislating and put-include medical amnesty. Ruof was For example, the Office of Resi-but for Burns and his friend. ting conditions on care and compas-Shaping the conversation left wondering if the process the dence Life is currently under review “My Res Life, I can deal with be­sion for one another.” Without a formal policy in place University had in place was enough. and McCormick said he used this as cause I did something stupid and 

Several faith-affiliated schools, at Notre Dame, students who would However, the next year, Ruof an opportunity to open up discus-I made a mistake, but those guys such as Texas Christian University, have been protected under the medi-served as student body chief of staff sion about medical amnesty and didn’t have to help me at all and they Southern Methodist University and cal amnesty policy could be referred and had the opportunity to look at express the student body’s support went out of their way to help me,” Fordham University, have a form of to the Office of Residence Life, which the inner workings of the disciplin-for the policy. she said. “The fact the those guys medical amnesty policy, according has wiggle room to make sanctions ary process, which changed his Coughlin said the current review had to even think that they might to their websites and student hand-lighter, or stronger, depending on mind. is not of policies, such as medical get in trouble for that is really upset-books. the circumstances surrounding the “From being able to talk to the amnesty, but rather a review of the ting.” 
Across the street at Saint Mary’s rule violation. administration, get to know the disciplinary process as a whole. Meanwhile, Burns said if a medi-College, which was founded by the Kathleen O’Leary, director of the administration, have those deeper However, McCormick said active cal amnesty policy had been in same religious congregation as Office of Residence Life, said her of-conversations ... I was extremely communication with the adminis-place, it could have changed the way Notre Dame, students are protected fice strives for a “delicate balance” confident that they were looking out tration during the review could be he approached the situation. under both medical amnesty and between prioritizing student safety for us — as much as Res Life gets a helpful. “Obviously if there was amnes-Good Samaritan policies. and upholding expectations that bad rap,” he said. “I was comfort-“It is a valuable opportunity to re-ty in place, there is not a second 
students comply with University able knowing they were taking it all flect on ways to increase transpar-thought about helping someone out,” The Saint Mary’s philosophy policies. into consideration.” ency and clarity on all sides of the he said. “I’m not sure if that would 
Saint Mary’s College implement-“The decision to seek out that process,” he said. have changed the officers’ behavior, ed its medical amnesty and Good medical assistance for self or oth-Looking to the future While McCormick said he trusts maybe it would have changed our Samaritan policies in 2008, accord-ers will definitely be a part of the When the University finalized du Notre Dame students to put a hurt thought process.” ing to Janielle Tchakerian, director conversation,” O’Leary said. “While Lac revisions in 2010, a major win-or sick friend’s well-being before According to a previous Observer of Residence Life and Community it may not necessarily erase a stu-dow of opportunity for policy reform their own concerns, he would like article, du Lac is reviewed every six Standards for Saint Mary’s. dent’s responsibility for violating a closed. As a result, student body to see more transparency in the to eight years, making the next op-
Since then, she said students take policy, it will shape our conversation president Pat McCormick could not disciplinary process so students can portunity for revision likely in 2016. advantage of the policies every year. and perhaps impact the outcomes effectively push for the implementa-“know not only their rights, but also The Office of Residence Life holds 
“Our goal is to make sure a stu-from our office.” tion of a medical amnesty policy as know their responsibilities.” open office hours Fridays from 11 dent who needs assistance gets O’Leary said her office does not previous student government ad- “I really deeply believe that Notre a.m. to noon in 306 Main Building assistance, and secondary to hold have data on the outcomes of cases ministrations did. Dame students are committed to to give students an opportunity to students responsible for potential in which the student would have Nonetheless, McCormick said he doing the right thing,” he said. “But I discuss the current review of the violation of the code,” Tchakerian been protected under medical am-has not let the issue completely drop think Notre Dame students … have disciplinary process. said. “Every student that I’ve talked nesty. off the radar. legitimate questions about the clar­to knows not to be afraid to call for 2011 graduate Nick Ruof, former “We continue to advocate in what-ity in reforms and in increasing the Contact Sarah Mervosh at                   help.” student government senator and ever ways are available to us to try transparency of the process.” smervosh@nd.edu 


Friday, January 27, 2012 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
people of La Unión have desire and year, UMF gave $30,000 in micro-all of the things Notre Dame 
Honduras 
work ethic and knowledge, but they loans to 191 clients at a repayment 
Retreat 

students face.” need the network of connections rate of 96.3 percent, he said. 
In the past, the retreat has continued from page 1 that we possess.”  He said UMF  In addition to microloans, Miller 
continued from page 1 been career-focused, with uses microloans instead of char-said UMF gives farmers training 
alumni speaking on life af­Dame’s study abroad program in ity, based on the organization’s be-and facilitates infrastructure proj­
day and concludes Saturday ter college, Carey said. The Fremantle, Australia for giving lief in people’s capacity to improve. ects aimed at improving the com-
evening with a closing din-aim for the last few years him the confidence to explore dif-UMF gave microloans in the form of munity. UMF also partners with or­
ner. has been for a more spiritual ferent cultures. He later traveled to goods, not cash, and began in small ganizations, such as the Honduran 
“This is an opportunity exploration. Southeast Asia with two classmates loans of $70 with no collateral. Institute for Coffee and the National 
to reflect on the last three “This year we have added after graduation and then went on “One of the things the UMF Institute of Professional Formation, 
and a half years,” Bell said. a talk that two people are an 11-month trip around the world, firmly believes is that people have to teach farmers about coffee cul­
“Some reflections will be giving on gratitude. We want he said. a great capacity, whether to learn, tivation techniques and business 
shared by the planning team attendees to see who to be “[They] helped solidify those ear-to work, to do good — to do things practices. 
to start conversation in thankful for,” he said. “The ly experiences I had and made me for themselves and others in life,” Miller said although the ultimate 
small groups.” retreat is starting a pro-really get to know and experience Miller said. goal of the organization is to help 
Bell said in planning, the cess of reflection through what the world was like,” he said. UMF gave 125 people more than Honduras become more self-suffi­
team considered what se-this weekend, the next four Miller said he is proud to be a $10,000 in microloans in the first cient, he hopes organizations like 
niors needed as their time at months and beyond.” part of an organization that works year of the program, he said.  Each Notre Dame can become involved 
Notre Dame drew to a close. Carey assembled the plan-directly with Honduras’ people. farmer received an equivalent of with UMF’s operations in the fu­
“It’s been interesting plan-ning committee over the Since beginning in November 2009, $75, primarily in fertilizer. ture. 
ning parts of a retreat know-summer, purposefully pick-UMF has built a staff where six of Borrowers are eligible to double “[UMF] wants to be a mentor 
ing they’re for our friends ing leaders he felt could eight employees live in Honduras their loan each subsequent year to the Hondurans,” he said. “The 
and classmates, and, at the bring together a successful full-time and two are Honduran na-if they repay their loan and at-world’s poor need someone to walk 
same time, for us. At the retreat. tionals.  “We are a small group of tend repayment meetings, Miller with them.” 
heart of what we’re hoping “It’s seniors leading se­individuals who are trying to inter-said. Miller said 99.7 percent of the 
for is to provide an opportu-niors,” he said. “We were vene in the way that coffee is grown $10,000 in microloans given in the Contact Marielle Hampe at      
nity to pause when we’re at gathering a team of student to improve lives,” Miller said. “The first year was repaid.  In its second mhampe@nd.edu 
a time as seniors that every-leaders, and we came up one is telling you to go, go with a team from various 
— to hurry,” Bell said. “It’s a facets of Notre Dame that 

moment to pause and reflect will enable attendees to include lantern riddle games, difficulties in planning the 
on changes.” grow.” 
China 
discussions on students’ study event. 

While this year’s retreat In addition to this week-abroad experiences in China “The biggest challenge (we 
follows a general pattern end’s retreat, three more continued from page 1 and performances from mu-had to deal with) was con-
set by the past six retreats, Notre Dame Encounters and sicians and dancers at Saint tacting lots of performers and 
the content is new because two Freshman Retreats will plan the event, said China Mary’s and Notre Dame, con-finding some special decora­
the planning team is differ-happen before the school Night seeks to educate attend-cluding with a special present tions,” said Wang. 
ent, said Fr. Joe Carey, the year’s end, Carey said. ees.  for attendees. Siqin Yang said she agreed 
interim director of Cam-“They have a different “Our purpose (is to promote) “All children and students with Wang, but event planning 
pus Ministry. Carey led the feeling than this retreat — the Chinese culture, share in-will receive a red envelope, proved successful in the end. 
Senior Retreat for the last and anyone can participate ternational exchange experi-which is the traditional Chi-“Our preparation time is 
six sessions, though Senior in the Notre Dame Encoun­ences and bring people a festi-nese new year gift,” she said. tight, but we have been work-
Retreats have occurred on ters,” he said. “They are also val atmosphere,” she said. Following the performances, ing hard on the event and are 
campus since the 1970s. smaller, with the limit set at Siqin Yang said CWIL games and discussions, there confident that attendees will 
“It makes me proud to be 50 people.” planned several activities will be a reception where tra-enjoy the show,” she said. 
at Notre Dame,” he said. “It’s More information on the throughout the evening and ditional Chinese food will be The event is free and open to 
different every year because retreats is available at cam-transformed O’Laughlin Au-served.  the public. 
of the team. It’s [a new re-pusministry.nd.edu. ditorium into a festival fit to Wang said though China 
treat] in that it’s [the plan-celebrate the Year of the Drag-Night has a long history at the Contact Bridget Feeney at 
ning committee’s] experi-Contact amanda Gray at on. She said the evening will two schools, there were a few bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
ences – they really capture agray3@nd.edu 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, January 27, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The many 
joys of 
Nutella 

So far, this semester has not been going as smoothly as I expected or hoped. I’m already way behind on my homework, sources aren’t calling me back and I miss my friends that are abroad, even though it’s great to see my friends who just got back. 
In situations such as these, my dad, Cowboy Joe (no joke, he re­ally was a cowboy) would tell me to “pull yourself up Anna Boarini by your bootstraps and dust off.” News Writer 

Now, my dad is a very smart guy, but sometimes, no matter how hard you try, pulling yourself up by your bootstraps isn’t enough. 
In those moments, I encourage you to turn to my favorite vice. 
I can pretty much guarantee every­one reading this thinks I’m talking about booze. As much as I enjoy a good whisky sour (just ask every bar tender in South Bend) or a correctly poured beer, my favorite vice is not a libation. 
It is so much better. It’s Nutella. 
Nutella, for those of you who have never had the joy of consuming such a tasty treat, is a chocolate hazelnut spread. AND IT IS AMAZING! Seri­ously, you are missing out. 
If you have never had Nutella, I implore you to stop whatever you are doing and go eat some. You will thank me later, I know it. 
Anyway, Nutella is super yummy and will seriously make your day bet­ter. It is one of those simple pleasures like getting new running socks or when the barista at Starbucks spells your name right without asking. 
And the best part of Nutella is you can eat it any way you want. Put it on toast for breakfast, eat it with pretzels and a banana for lunch and on top of a brownie for dessert after dinner. 
Or you can be like me and eat it plain, straight out of the jar off a spoon. 
Most people usually don’t admit to eating Nutella off a spoon, but I’ve had a bad week and I really don’t care. 
Judge me for my Nutella eating, be­cause I know you are just jealous that you aren’t eating such a delicacy off a spoon right now. 
However, eating Nutella is even bet­ter when you are with your friends. When my roommate and all-around partner in crime Fran and I have a bad day, we tell each other “just take another shot of Nutella.” 
When I was skyping my bestie Chris Wednesday night, who is studying in Rome this semester, we had snack time; I ate plain Nutella and he ate pasta carbonara. And the Nutella tasted so much better because I was finally able to talk to one of my best friends. 
So, when you have a bad day, take my dad’s advice and pull yourself up by your bootstraps. But then reward yourself with a shot of Nutella. 
Contact Anna Boarini at      aboarini@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

How are we to go and do likewise? 
Imagine yourself at a dorm party this weekend. 

You’ve been there for a couple hours, and you’ve noticed a girl — let’s call her Amy — who seems to be a few drinks too deep. 
You have also been imbibing, and you happen to be under the legal drinking age of 21 years. 
As the night goes on, you talk with Amy and policy, Notre Dame risks its mission to provide a residential life that “endeavors to develop that sense of community and of responsibility that prepares students for subsequent leader­ship in building a society that is at once more human and more divine.” 
What sense of responsibility is fostered by an atmosphere of 
fear and danger? How are leaders supposed to 

find out she is a student at Saint Mary’s. You 
act when faced with the possibility their respon­also notice Amy begin to slur her words, her sible actions may get them into trouble with the eyes look out of focus and, by the end of the par-University? How does Notre Dame foster a sense ty, you notice Amy slumped alone on a couch. of community by preventing students from help-What do you do? What goes through your ing their peers because they’re afraid of the con-mind? What are your priorities? sequences? 
Your buddy comes over and you point out Those of us who went to Catholic schools as 
Amy to him. Knowing the possible consequenc­es of an underage drinking ticket, he suggests you leave Amy alone and continue enjoying the party. Another friend comes over, motions to Amy, and laughs. 
But you know something must be done. Her life is in danger and you are the only one with seemingly enough sense to get her help. Then again, you’re not 21. And you’re drunk. 
This is the situation addressed by the medical amnesty poli­cies in existence at more than 90 schools across the country. 
Notre Dame is not one of them. 

Participating institutions include Duke, Harvard, Yale, Princeton and MIT — all schools Notre Dame proudly calls peers. The list also includes St. John’s, Texas Christian, St. Lawrence and Benedictine — all universities sharing Notre Dame’s commitment to Christian ideals of neighborly love and assistance. 
Even more interestingly, our sister school across the street 
— founded by the same Catholic order which founded Notre Dame — maintains a medical amnesty policy, which protects the student who is sick or injured from getting in trouble, and a Good Samaritan protection policy, which protects the stu­dent who seeks help for the student in need. Saint Mary’s ad­opted the policy to ensure student safety is the first priority. 
And yet, Notre Dame chose not to include some form of a medical amnesty policy in its revisions to du Lac, the student handbook, in 2010. 
In his inaugural address, University President Fr. John Jen­kins insisted, “The world needs a university that graduates men and women who are not only capable and knowledgeable, but who accept their responsibility to serve others — espe­cially those in the greatest need.” 
Without a medical amnesty policy and a Good Samaritan 
children learned about the Parable of the Good Samaritan in Luke’s gospel. Three men come across a traveler who has been attacked by robbers and left for dead on a road. A priest and a Levite pass the man by and offer him no as­sistance. Then a Samaritan comes across the man, offers him help, takes him to an inn to recover, and pays for his lodging; the Good Samaritan. 
Now, let’s go back to that hypothetical party. 
You determine that it is up to you to get Amy medical help. So you call NDSP and several officers and an ambulance respond and take Amy away — possibly saving her life. She recovers and thanks you and she does not get into trouble under Saint Mary’s current medical amnesty policy. 
Unfortunately, with Notre Dame’s current policies, you still do face the consequences of your underage drinking. You may get a ticket for consumption and spend the night at the local jail. Or you may be called to testify at a Residence Life meeting and have the violation added to your personal file. 
As Jesus recounts the parable in Luke, he asks those gath­ered around him which man in the story was a neighbor to the man who was attacked. An expert in the law replied that the most neighborly man was the Samaritan “who had mercy on him.” 
Jesus responds, “Go and do likewise.” (Luke 10:25-37 NIV) 
Notre Dame does not allow its students to do likewise. Good Samaritans are only “good” as long as they themselves are free of guilt. Otherwise, they are culpable for their own actions even if those actions pale in comparison to their selfless as­sistance to others. 
Notre Dame needs a medical amnesty policy. Our students deserve the freedom from fear when living out their Catholic mission and protecting their neighbors. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Disregard disregarding the mandate 
Jessica Carney, Ken Fowler and others, 

In an age where it seems our nation’s youth has gener­ally become apathetic about politics, I applaud the efforts that you have made to understand the political arena of our nation. I especially applaud the enthusiasm in which you take on such a controversial piece of legislation which affects issues (i.e. abortion) close to the hearts of Catholics. I applaud you even more (and slightly louder) for want­ing to take action for something you so strongly believe in, religious freedom and following in the footsteps of Martin Luther King Jr., a pioneer in positive change. 
I can only assume that your call for civil disobedience echoes your attitudes that no one (or more than one) person should be discriminated against, and you believe that the Affordable Care Act discriminates against your religion. Again, applause. 
However, I believe that anything short of providing comprehensive health care for women, who have been one of the most discriminated against groups in health care and who suffer from an increasing disparity in health care quality, according to a recent AHRQ (Agency for Health Care Research and Quality) study, is “literally unconscio­nable.” 
Fact 1: According to Guttmacher Institute research, 98 percent of sexually active Catholic women use contraception. 
Fact 2: According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, almost half of pregnancies in the U.S. are unin­tended, more than in any other developed nation. 
Fact 3: According to the New York Times, nearly a third of women who stop using birth control do so because of chang­es in insurance coverage. 
This bill is not an attack against religious freedom like many Catholic and pro-choice leaders wish you to believe. (There are a growing number of Catholic leaders, Catholics for Choice, who disagree with the far-right Catholics.) This is a bill that grants freedom, equality and power to women and is both reasonable and for the common good. This bill repre­sents the biggest gains feminism has seen since the 1970s. 
I call upon all Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s women (and all the men, too) to disregard disregarding the mandate. 
Long Live Roe. 
Collier O’Connor 
junior off-campus Jan. 26 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It is absurd to divide people into good and bad. People are either charming or tedious.” 
Oscar Wilde Irish dramatist, novelist & poet 





Friday, January 27, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
“Knucklehead-of-the-year” awards 
It’s officially the Chinese Lunar Year of the Water Dragon, ancient symbol reserved for the Chinese emperor and considered to be an extremely auspi­cious sign of things to come. But the Mayan calendar ends this year with Gary Caruso prophesies of an end-of-time second-Capitol coming rapture in Comments the coming months — of course, only following the Christian Zionistic salva­tion of Israel through a conversion to Christianity. Therefore, now is the final time in the whole of history that anyone can honor a prior year’s most egregious knuckleheads neatly categorized under Notre Dame, Country and God. 
Snark aside, this writer was shocked last November that oft-times ND oppo­nent Penn State fired Coach Joe Pater-no. Paterno’s passing this week is truly sad. The first “Knucklehead-of-the-Year” award goes to my home state’s knucklehead-in-chief, Governor Tom Corbett, who as attorney general did not pursue child abuse charges during his tenure, but as a leading voice of the PSU trustees used sketchy information to fire — rather than suspend — Pa­terno. Corbett has set his own standard now to fire any of his appointees should they show any moral lacking. 
ND award two: what knuckleheads 
— sorry, Coach Kelly, because I other­wise fully support you — authorized that epic garment fail by adding CYO-looking mismatched green colored shamrocks on the Notre Dame football helmets? Talk about looking so high school compared to the classy bowl jer­seys that featured the players’ names. Jazz the uniforms subtly by keeping the names and embroider a Fightin’ Irish Leprechaun above the heart or add a stripe under the armpit if you must become flashy for recruiting. Better yet, color our boring drab white-striped end zones with leprechauns or logos. And please remember that our school colors are blue and gold, NOT solid green! Dan Devine wore out the green mystique 35 years ago. 
Stupid sports knucklehead awards go to NFL, NCAA and high school players who epitomize dumb consequences. The most obvious award goes to Isaiah Lewis, the Michigan State football player whose “running into the punter” penalty gave Wisconsin a first down, the game and a trip to the Rose Bowl. In the NFL, Buffalo’s Stevie Johnson was “just having fun” when, after a touchdown catch, he mocked New York Jets Plaxico Burress’ shot in the thigh. Johnson’s knucklehead celebratory fun contributed to a 28-24 Bills loss. 
In high school sports, Boston Ca­thedral senior quarterback Matthew Owens faked a handoff and sprinted into the end zone for what looked like his school’s first ever game-winning Super Bowl title. But Owens drew a “taunting behavior by someone scor­ing a touchdown” penalty at the 20­


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Where is the fairness? 
When President Obama was elected wants every American child to attain in 2008, it was seen as a sign of increas-higher education. ing fairness in America. Deserved or There is even a third option, as noted not, President Obama himself was seen by Ms. Carney et al., which disregards as a sign of fairness and all that is right the mandate. That option is to accept when it comes to equality. However, with the coverage, but only enact the parts the new Health and Human Services that do not conflict with Church teach-mandate that he and his administration ings. This is perhaps the most viable have adopted, it seems as though fair-option, but it’s impossible to see how ness can only extend to one party. the HHS will react to such selective 
What Notre Dame is faced with is a interpretation of the mandate. One lose-lose situation. We could go along could assume, however, that fines, with the mandate, thus throwing our sanctions and legal action of some sort collective Catholic identity and adher-will be levied against the University ence to the Church’s doctrines out the — all against a Catholic school that window. This, of course, is something just wishes to keep its Catholic identity that we should not and will not do. Our true. Separation of church and state hallmark as one of the — if not the ab-works both ways. President Obama is solute — best Catholic universities will trying to meddle in the affairs of the be lost. Catholic Church with state policies, a 
The second option is to eliminate right that many people will say he does health coverage for Notre Dame em-not have. ployees. This also contradicts what the Looking back, I was actually wrong Church preaches in terms of helping and early on in this letter. I said it was a protecting those who seek such protec-lose-lose situation for the University, tion. Additionally, eliminating coverage when in fact, Notre Dame is faced with not only goes against Church teachings, a lose-lose-lose situation. but it will also cost the school a pen-What President Obama fails to see is alty of ten million a year, according to that he too is facing a losing situation. Mr. William McGurn in his Wall Street By enacting this mandate, he risks Journal article that specifically looked the chance of alienating the Catholic at the law and how it affects not only the left who helped him get to office in the Catholic left, but institutions like Notre first place. President Obama’s chance Dame. That penalty amounts to about for re-election may increase if he $1,200 per undergraduate student, simply decides to not act in a position which may possibly be made up through of change for religions, most notably a $1,200 addition to our tuition and fees. Catholicism. 
In addition, by not covering school I do hope that the University will employees, there is a real chance that continue to fight this, and I am in very qualified professors and work-agreement with Ms. Carney et al. when ers will not want to risk working for a I say that I will stand by the University company that has no coverage for them. against this overstepping of boundar-Therefore, President Obama may not ies. only be hurting this school’s chances to Love Thee Notre Dame! hire respected and intelligent profes­sors, cooks and landscapers, but he also Alan Keck may be increasing the cost of attending freshman Catholic schools that may drop coverage Duncan Hall 
— which is significant for a man who Jan. 26 
yard line when he raised his arm and pointed his finger toward the sky. With the score called back, Boston Cathe­dral failed to score before time expired and lost 16-14. If only Owens and Tim Tebow had direct wireless connections to the heavens to simply speak without gesturing. 
Our country’s criminal knuckleheads also abound. John Robin Whittle never let his good beer go to waste in Florida. The 52-year-old ordered his beer, left to rob a bank, then returned to the bar to finish his brew before his prompt ar­rest. Timothy Clark did not thoroughly plan the day of his shoplifting arrest at a Wal-Mart — the same day police held their “Shop With A Cop” charity event. Isaiah Cutler, 18, was accused of burglarizing more than $8,000 worth of cash, cigarettes, candy and checks from a Pittsburgh market an hour after the theft when he posted pictures of himself and the loot on his Facebook page. 
Honorable mention knucklehead awards go to Jeffrey Drew Wilschke, who changed his name to “Mr. Beezow Doo-Doo Zopittybop-Bop-Bop,” the Washington motorist who was busted for his bone-headed decision to put a skeleton in his passenger seat to drive in the HOV lane and to a Los Angeles Chick-fil-A cashier who described Asian customers as “Ching” and “Chong” on their receipts. 
God also works in strange knuckle­head ways. Christian conservative lead­er Pat Robertson heard straight from the Almighty that God does not support President Barack Obama’s agenda and that only “overwhelming prayer” can bring a new leader who will stop the country from “disintegrating.” Cardinal Francis George, Archbishop of Chicago, compared Gay Pride Parade organizers to “something like the Ku Klux Klan,” for plans to pass by his church. Former “Saturday Night Live” actress Victoria Jackson, with confidential information through her special clearance, claimed that the United States is being overtak­en by radical Muslims bent on bringing the nation under Sharia law. 
Finally, a reverse knucklehead award 
— for the code of canon law describ­ing marriage as unfit for the clergy. Los Angeles Auxiliary Bishop Gabino Zavala, 60, resigned after acknowledg­ing he fathered two children. Perhaps the knucklehead award should go to Pope Gregory for the 7th Century rule designed only to take a priest’s prop­erty after death. No matter, the world ends in 2012 anyway. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Secu­rity and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Thank God 

In the weeks before the Asiatic Gaze’s that difference is bad? Difference is what debut Race Monologues, a friend re-makes life exciting, whether it is seen quested I reflect on diversity, race and in the exploration of a new academic multiculturalism. subject or in meeting of a new person. It 
As a white male, I have only one is in diversity, race and multiculturalism thing to say: Thank God. that we see the infinite number of ways 
Today, diversity, race, and multicul-in which one can be beautiful, intelli­turalism are tainted words. Plagued gent, funny, fun, genuine or passionate. by a history of man vehemently trying It is diversity, race and multiculturalism his best to limit his surroundings to that make it possible for there to be more the familiar and the comfortable, these than one way to be human. If there is words have become permanently at-any set of words that we should per­tached to concepts of tension, frustra-manently attach feelings of excitement, tion, alienation and violence. One has wonder and admiration to, is it not this only to look in a child’s textbook, at the set? TV or in a newspaper to find proof that So whether you are a white male your-these words have become tainted. self or not, I would hope you have only 
What a shame this is. Somehow we one thing to say about these words as have surrounded ourselves with things well: Thank God. that solidify, on a daily basis, one of mankind’s greatest misconceptions: Stephen Zerfas that diversity is a problem. Diversity, sophomore by definition, means little more than Carroll Hall difference, and who would ever argue Jan. 26 
Mike Brey for president 
I’m often tempted to write to The have him as our coach. While other pro-Observer, but I always wait to see if grams have blamed losses and recruit-what seems rational is actually a quick ing woes on field surface and the lack of emotional response to something that jumbo-trons, Mike Brey has won with doesn’t matter. In this case, though, I’ve any and every group of players.  While served my time in Viewpoint purgatory other programs have blamed the inten­and I need to get this out. sity of the student section, Mike Brey 
Mike Brey needs some love. In our creates his own excitement on the bench decade with him at the helm of the and in the student section. While other basketball program he has consis-coaches stubbornly stick to their style of tently over-achieved, winning with any play even when it isn’t working, Coach and every group of players possible in Brey does everything to win, even if it what has been the toughest basketball means only shooting the ball every four conference in the country in that time. minutes. The win over Syracuse was the He’s recruited solid talent to a football single most exciting sporting event I have school in the middle of Indiana, which ever been a part of, and the most proud has to be one of the toughest tasks pos-I have ever been to be a Notre Dame sible, and he’s made himself one of the student, so Coach Brey, thank you. best members of this University. Every time I get an email from him, every Will Streit time I see him yelling on the sideline, junior and every time I watch his teams I get Alumni Hall excited and I couldn’t be more proud to Jan. 26 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, January 27, 2012 

So you’re not Barney Stinson or have that innate desire to wear a suit everyday.  I get it. You generally hate dressing up, but it has to be done some­times.  However, the Winter Career and Internship Fair Sean Fitzgerald is fast approaching. You want to present Scene Writer your best self, but you don’t really un­derstand what makes some guys look so good in a suit.  Here are some areas to look at when dressing for that key interview (in order of importance). 
No. 1: The Shoulders 

Since the downfall of menswear in the late 1960s (when was the last time you saw a well-dressed hippie?), men and their suits have lost their way.  Men have been choosing to wear suits that don’t fit well, on purpose.  And, it all starts with the shoulders.  The shoulders should be close-fitting with minimal-shoulder padding. You’re not a linebacker; you’re looking for a job.  
Even the best tailors can’t alter the shoulders that much.  Here’s a trick to tell if the shoulders fit right. Put on the jacket and stand next to a wall. Slowly lean into the wall with your shoulder.  The shoulder and the pad should hit at the same time.  If not, size down until it does. 
No. 2: Armholes 

Back in 2010, Banana Republic came out with their Suiting 101 Guide.  Note to Banana Republic: it was TER­RIBLE.  When talking about armholes BR said, “Give yourself room to move. The armhole should be wide enough to allow considerable motion.”  If you know anything about BR suits, they have been known to have quite low armholes.  They cause the whole suit to move when you raise your arms, you don’t want that. Go for the modern, high armholes. 
No. 3: Jacket Waist 
Repeat after me — I am not wearing a box; I am wearing a suit. The fabric from your torso to your armpits should not make a straight, vertical line down. It should dart in.  Even if you think your suit fits well, go to your tailor and have him/her pin you up.  This will cost about $20. 
No. 4: Pant Break 
The break is where the pant meets the shoe and creates that “crease.”  There should be only ONE crease, not 
5.  This is known as a medium break.  Although there has been a recent trend in the menswear industry to have pants with no break, it is hard to pull off.  Hemming the pants will cost about $10. 
No. 5: Jacket Length 
Put your arms at your side, and curl up your fingers. The jacket should be resting in your hands. Shortening the jacket length is about $30-$40. 
No. 6: Jacket Sleeves 
About ¼” to a ½” of the shirt cuff should be visible when your arms are hanging by your side, but it’s not the end of the world if you can’t get it done. Shortening the jacket sleeves will cost about $20. 
No. 7: Lapels and Ties 
Lapels are what most of you would call the “collar.”  Thinner guys should opt for thin lapels. 
Thin lapels should also be matched with thinner ties.  Ties should not go past the belt 


buckle. 
My Advice: 
Take this 
guide with 
you and go see 
your tailor!  
While you’re 
there, get 
measured and 
have him/her 
pin you up.  
Trust me, it 
can make all 
the difference. 
Contact Sean 
Fitzgerald at 
sfitzge3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessar­ily those of The 

Figure skater Anton Apolo Ohno shows off the before and after style. Observer. 
MARINA KOZAK I Observer Graphic 


It is an undeniable fact of our fashionable life that every fashioni­sta has a pet peeve: something that drives her off her style rocker. I am no exception. More than mermaid tails on gowns (always strut, never waddle), cheap fabric (uncomfort­able and un­sophisticated), and large bows (what am I, a present?), I loathe inter­view outfits. 
As our Notre Dame Career Fair ap­proaches, I am overcome with dread. Picking out an outfit for this circus is more complicated than negotiating a peace treaty at the Hague. 
What do I want to project to this potential employer: who I am, my strengths? Do I emphasize my boldness or play down my fashion sense to emphasize my intelligence? Why are these two things mutually exclusive? To suit or not to suit? Is wearing a silk scarf too exotic? A briefcase or a purse with port­folio? 
And let’s not forget the shoes! I know you, fel­low fashionistas, understand my plight. We are in a precarious position. We are on the cusp of adulthood (actual employment) and at the zenith of our youth. 
And unless you’re inter­viewing with a luxury brand goods company who prides itself on innovation, a backless black linen halter dress with red patent leather shoes, purse, and belt (yes, I did wear that to an interview, with great success I might add) is not go­ing to cut it. 
So, what are we to do? Clearly, break the cookie cutter mold, and show those interviewers the tira­misu they’ve been missing. We need new fashion ingredients to redefine the Career Fair Fashion recipe. 

No. 1: Suits are optional 
There was a time (circa Working Girl) when we women felt the need to prove we could occupy the same playground as our male colleagues.  We hid our femininity under boxy blazers and pencil skirts. No more. Wearing a dress or even walking shorts with a blazer communicates your ability to think outside the box. When your employer needs a new spin on that marketing plan, they’ll know who to turn to. If you do feel more comfortable in a suit, pick a flattering cut. For pants, make them skinny, don’t drown in boot cut. Make sure the blazer emphasizes your waist, not your shoulders. 
No. 2: Color is Your Friend 
Imagine how many people will be standing in line in front of you. Twenty, thirty? How do you expect to make an impression on an inter­viewer if you’re just one of many in black? Sure, you can talk up your experience, but give them visual cues to match you to your résumé. A red dress, a bright electric blue blaz­er, even a patterned blouse will get you the attention and remembrance 
you deserve. 
No. 3: Accessorize, Accessorize, Acces­sorize 
I once had an employ­er tell me the reason I received an assignment was because he was impressed by the way I coordinated my outfits. I swear. He said that if I paid that much atten­tion to the detail of my ensemble, he could only imagine how detail-ori­ented I would be on the project. Clearly, he was a very smart man. 
No. 4: Streamline shoes 
Heels are a must, but don’t go out and buy the token, clunky interview pair. Wear heels you’ve worn before, that you feel comfortable in, to which you’ve attached good memories. And they don’t need to be black! It will make 
standing on your own two feet, liter­ally and figuratively, much easier in a stressful situation. And with that, you are woman, go roar. 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcapognig@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 



Friday, January 27, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

By ROSS FINNEY The lead single “Lonely Boy,” is a Scene Writer super catchy tune, that’s fuzzy, excit­ing, a little glam and already showing 
In the December issue of Rolling up in advertisements. Stone, Black Keys drummer Patrick The second single, “Run Right Carney gave his outlook on the state Back” lacks “Lonely Boy”’s energetic of rock music at the present. drive, but melodically is probably the 
His opinion was pretty bleak. He sweetest and catchiest song on the took to task Nickelback, complaining entire album. that the band with the most mediocre The band, who have always been music was somehow the biggest sell-rooted in older music, manage to ing rock band in the country. make something new while still giv-
More shockingly however, he indict-ing deserved nods to their influences. ed the folks in the indie music scene, The blues is obvious but on this his band’s primary champions for the album, the Keys have incorporated a last ten years, complaining that their broader range of influences, especial-standards of authenticity as inversely ly on tracks like “Stop Stop”, which related to popular success were way could well be Rolling Stones song, out of line, and holding back rock and “Hell of a Season”, that has a very music. distinct Cramps vibe in the opening 
In some ways this was just a musi-minutes. cian letting off steam. After ten years For those less interested in pop of hard work, he has the critical le-stylings and more in the Keys’ rocking gitimacy and popular appeal to speak side, the album also offers plenty to off the cuff. love. 
In another greater sense, Car-“Gold on the Ceiling” is an excellent ney was positioning his band as the up tempo number with grungy gui­champions of rock and roll in the tar and a rocking chorus that more modern era– popular enough to get on than warrants some enthusiastic air the charts, authentic enough to please guitar. “Little Black Submarines” music geeks. starts as a soft acoustic ditty that, in 
The positioning of the Black Keys as true old-school Black Keys fashion, the saviors of commercial rock music slow-burns into heavy electric blues is a bold move, and one that comes as mayhem. It’s awesome. a bit of a surprise to those of us for With El Camino the Black Keys whom the group was a backburner have managed to put out a good rock band, good but under the radar for and roll record that has mainstream the better part of a decade. appeal, a rarity in today’s market. 
Surprising as it may be, given the Early indications are that the album state of rock music, where the Keys’ is selling well, and as Patrick Carney only real competitors are the Kings of astutely pointed out, the Keys, given Leon, on whom the critical commu-their continued ability to put out nity did a 180 after their grab for the music of this quality, are poised to mainstream, Carney may just be on to change the commercial face of rock something. and roll. 
Of course this new role for Carney and singer-guitarist Dan Auerbach is Contact Ross Finney at predicated entirely on the success of trfinney@nd.edu their newest album, and proving that 
the 2010’s hit Brothers, was no fluke. Luckily, El Camino’s a fantastic rock and roll album. 
Produced by Danger Mouse, El Camino manages to rein the Keys’ bluesy jams into tight and effective pop songs, without losing the hard rock edge that fans love. 
The album is only eleven songs long, and it plays very quickly. It’s one of the rare rock and roll records where any number of songs could be potential singles, and it has a great sense of balance as an album that often gets overlooked now that we buy single songs more often than full records. 


Paula Deen the Queen of Lean? In her dreams. The Southern but­ter belle has taken a beating in the kitchen this week as her love of cream and sugar molded into fodder for a mass media picnic. Poor Paula Deen, always trying to spread love in a time of calorie-a, is having the Worst Week Ever. 
The poofy bouf­fant announced to the world last week that she was suffering from Type 2 Diabetes, a form of the blood sugar disease often attributed to obesity. Deen’s announcement also brought with it news that she actually received the diagnosis three years ago.  Is that trouble I smell brewing in the kitchen? 
Critics raged that Deen misled audiences, drowning helpless fruits and veggies in legions of lard as she pumped insulin backstage. 
With a blinding white smile and blazing blue eyes, Deenie-baby acted like the overindulgence was anything but dangerous. After fans learned her devious secret, the layers of warm Southerly love for their grandmother­from-another-mother began to melt away. 
The love even fell short in Deen’s very own family. Her son Bobby started his own show “Not My Mama’s Meals” which aired Jan. 4 on The Cooking Channel, a Food Network spinoff. The broadcast boasts of delights like “Bobby’s Lighter Fresh Fruit Bread Pudding” and “Bobby’s Lighter Frozen Chocolate Mousse Pie.” He’s like a walking ad for jazzercise devotees. 



News outlets suspect Deen’s an­nouncement serves as a sort of promo for her progeny’s show, sort of a “Look what I did wrong, now watch my son make it better” spiel. All I can say is at least there’s some love bouncing around in this whole ordeal, because we know Deen’s not feeling it from the media. 
Deen recently became a spokes­woman for a diabetes drug maker’s health initiative, and critics again cried foul. They say Deen only came out with her diabetes announcement to promote her upcoming commercial role. In fact, Deen’s publicist, Nancy Assuncao, quit this week because of her former boss’s plans to plug the drug, according to “The New York Post.” Assuncao has kept pretty mum about the ordeal, but the timing can’t be for nothing. 
The food wars rage on as every­thing Deen does is now under a microscopic light. ABC News ran an article on their website Thursday titled, “Paula Deen Caught Eating a Cheeseburger.” 
Really? Note: On the American Diabetes Association website, there is a photo of a hamburger in the side bar with the caption “Bring Back the Classics! 135 diabetes-friendly recipes.” Who’s to say the Queen Deen wasn’t indulging the diabetic way? This girl can’t catch a break. 
Actually, she can. She conveniently escaped on a Caribbean Cruise and is probably basking in sunshine and happiness (and heaven forbid, a burger) as I write this article. So maybe her week really wasn’t all that bad and maybe she’ll once again ascend to the top of the chef’s throne. One thing’s for sure though, viewers are going to look a little more closely at each dollop of Daisy Deen drops. 
Paula Deen, haters will hate. All I can say is I’d have you in my kitchen any day. Maybe not every day, be­cause I’d like to live a long time. But a casual Sunday here and there — I’m all yours. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@ nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClaSSiFiEDS Friday, January 27, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The good, the bad and the ugly of Twitter use 
Sports often bring out the best and worst in people. Moments of triumph, personal goals being achieved and the unity of a pas­sionate fan base are just some of the things that help make the nature of these competi­tive contests so special. But at the same time, inappropriate conduct and poor sports­manship from athletes and over-the-top behavior from fans can signify a more disturb­ing side. 
And with the increase of social media in our digital world, these actions, and others, are exempli­fied all too well. 
Look around and it is not too difficult to see the impact that Twitter has made on the sport­ing world. Much of that impact is in a positive way. Never before have fans and athletes been able to interact so frequently, with fans being able to follow their favorite athletes and their daily lives. Fans can also send mes­sages directly to their favorite athletes and the athletes will of­ten interact back, either through a direct response or a retweet. The NFL is even going so far as to allow players to use Twitter on the sideline at the Pro Bowl this weekend. 
Many would argue this con­nection of knowing where an athlete is at a given moment or what he’s eating for dinner is a little too personal, which is perhaps true. At the same time, it is up to that athlete to monitor what they tweet and even who follows them if they wish. Typi­cally, if they tweet often, they are more than happy to share that said connection with the fans who love them. 
In addition, Twitter is a great way for fans to follow the beat writers for their teams to get the latest up to date information, as it’s developing. Breaking news has been leaked on Twitter in the past and fans can even ask the journalists who cover the sports and teams they follow detailed questions to be an­swered on the site. This provides an increased access to informa­tion and knowledge never before seen. 
But for all of its good, there are lots and lots of ways for Twitter to be misused which can have devastating consequences. 

Sam Gans 
Sports Writer 
Any Irish fan that follows recruiting has heard of Yuri Wright, who just last week was kicked out of Don Bosco Prep in New Jersey shortly after sexu­ally and racially inappropriate tweets were discovered on his Twitter account. The four-star cornerback was believed to have Notre Dame and Michigan high on his radar before com­mitting to Colorado on Tuesday. While only Wright and the coaching staffs know for sure, 
it seems likely the Irish and 
Wolverines both removed their 
respective offers due to his 
conduct. 
Fans can also use Twit­ter in a negative fashion, as displayed by the recent threats directed toward Kyle Wil­liams. Williams fumbled two punts during the San Francisco 49ers’ overtime loss to the New York Giants in the NFC Cham­pionship on Sunday and was promptly bombarded by hate and death threats via the social media site. Needless to say, this behavior is disgusting at best and potentially very dangerous at worst. 
Even sports broadcasters and writers — who are supposed to exhibit journalistic integrity — aren’t immune. Dave Hodge, a broadcaster for TSN (Canada’s version of ESPN), recently came under fire for a tweet about Boston Bruins goaltender Tim Thomas, after Thomas declined to visit the White House when President Obama honored his team’s Stanley Cup champion­ship. Hodge happened to point out that “Thomas has three children named Kiley, Kelsey and Keegan,” implying Thomas has loyalties to the KKK. TSN has since said the embarrass­ing tweet was “in poor taste,” and the matter will be handled internally. 
Twitter is an impressive phenomenon that, if used ef­fectively, can help connect ath­letes, sportswriters and fans in a way never before possible, thereby increasing our pas­sion for and knowledge of the games we love. But it can also lead people to take a game way too far and cause regrets they will live with for a long time. Let’s all — players, coaches, administrators, journalists and fans alike — try to hold Twitter use to the former. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Tigers introduce their Prince 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — Prince Fielder stood with a smile and recalled his earliest memories of old Ti­ger Stadium, when he would hang out at the ballpark where his father hit so many massive home runs. 
“For me, it was always Sparky saying I was going to pinch hit 
— and I really believed him,” Fielder said, referring to for­mer manager Sparky Ander­son. “I’m just glad I get to come back.” 
The Tigers introduced Field­er on Thursday after finalizing a $214 million, nine-year con­tract with the free agent first baseman, who is expected to hit a lot more home runs than his dad. 
Fielder was born in 1984, the last time Detroit won the World Series. After luring him back to Michigan with the fourth-larg­est deal in baseball history, the Tigers are hoping Fielder will help usher in a new champion­ship era for the Motor City. 
“This is awesome,” Fielder said. “It’s kind of a dream come true. I’m excited.” 

Detroit began seriously pur­suing Fielder after designated hitter Victor Martinez tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee during offseason con­ditioning. Now the Tigers have three of baseball’s biggest stars 
— Fielder, Miguel Cabrera and Justin Verlander — all in their primes. Detroit won the AL Cen­tral by 15 games last year but lost to Texas in the AL champi­onship series. 
“We’re trying to win right now,” general manager Dave Dombrowski said. “We tried to win last year. We were close. I think we’ve reached a point now, on a yearly basis, we feel that way. When you look at the core of our group of players, there’s a lot of guys that are on that field right now that are quality play­ers.” 
It will be up to manager Jim Leyland to figure out where to play all of his powerful hitters. He said Thursday the Tigers will move Miguel Cabrera from first base to third to make room for Fielder. He also listed a possible batting order, with Cabrera hit­ting third and Fielder fourth. 
It’s a lineup based on power, not speed. That much is clear. 
“If they hit it where they’re supposed to hit ‘em, they can trot,” Leyland said. “We’re going back to the old-fashioned base­ball. We’ve got big-time power on the corners.” 
Fielder’s father Cecil became a big league star when he re­turned to the majors from Japan and hit 51 home runs with De­troit in 1990. Cecil played with the Tigers into the 1996 season, and young Prince made a name for himself with his prodigious power displays during batting practice at Tiger Stadium. 

Detroit plays at Comerica Park now, and times have changed. Leyland manages the Tigers, not Sparky Anderson. 
Fielder’s contract includes a limited no-trade provision. He can be traded to 10 clubs without his consent before 2017, when he gains rights to block all trades under baseball’s labor contract as a 10-year veteran who has been with a team for at least five years. 
He will earn $23 million in each of his first two years with Detroit, then will make $24 mil­lion annually in the final seven seasons of his contract, accord­ing to terms obtained by The As­sociated Press. 
That contrasts with Albert Pu­jols’ backloaded $240 million, 10-year contract with the Los Angeles Angels, agreed to last month. 
Pujols gets $12 million this year and $16 million in 2013, with the salary increasing to $23 million in 2014 and then rising $1 million annually. 
The move carries plenty of risk for the Tigers. Fielder is 27 and has been extremely durable during his career, but Detroit is committing to him for almost a decade. 
“I go by my instinct, like every­body else does,” said owner Mike Ilitch, who signed off on the mas­sive deal after what had been a quiet offseason for the Tigers. 
“My instincts told me that this is going to work out fine.” 
The next big step will be Ca­brera’s. He’s returning to a po­sition he played while with the Florida Marlins, but he’s played only 14 games at third base with the Tigers — all in 2008 right af­ter he joined the team. 
Fielder made 15 errors last year, the most in baseball by a first baseman. 
“Mr. Ilitch and Dave have giv­en me a lot of nice pieces to this puzzle. It’s my job, along with coaches, to figure out how to put that puzzle all together,” Leyland said. “(Cabrera) is not going to have the agility, most likely, de­fensively that Brandon Inge had. You give up a little something, but you get a whole lot in return.” 
Leyland said he talked to Inge, who lost his job as Detroit’s ev­eryday third baseman last sea­son. 
“He’s not the happiest camp­er,” Leyland said. “He certainly understands.” 
Dombrowski indicated he’s satisfied with his roster heading into spring training, although it’s hard to rule out any more moves after the Tigers shock­ingly emerged with Fielder. 
The pitching rotation is an­chored by Verlander, who won the Cy Young Award and MVP last year, but Detroit’s fifth start­er spot is still uncertain. Dom­browski said the Tigers could bring in some non-roster invites to compete for that job. 
“I think positional player-wise, we’re pretty well set,” he said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR SALE FOR RENT PERSONAL On This Day in History: 1900 - In China, foreign diplomats 1944 - The Soviet Union 
in Peking, fearing a revolt, announced that the two year 1870 - Kappa Alpha Theta, the first demanded that the imperial German siege of Leningrad had women’s sorority, was founded government discipline the Boxer come to an end. 
1999 VW Beatle VW Beatle WALK TO CAMPUS UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t at Indiana Asbury University rebels. in excellent condition, 113K do it alone. Notre Dame has many (now DePauw University) in 1945 - Soviet troops liberated miles, clean interior, no rust, Great Specials! Studio, 1, 2, 3 resources in place to assist you. Greencastle, IN. 1926 - John Baird, a Scottish the Nazi concentration camps locally owned by former ND Bedroom Townhomes available. If you or someone you love needs inventor, demonstrated a pictorial Auschwitz and Birkenau in Poland. graduate, locally maintained with confidential support or assistance, 1880 - Thomas Edison patented transmission machine called maintenance records available, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 the electric incandescent lamp. television. 1948 - Wire Recording Corporation removable radio/CD player. Call at or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more of America announced the first 
information, visit ND’s website at: 1888 - The National Geographic 1943 - During World War II, the magnetic tape recorder. The 
(574) 272-8124. www. Society was founded in first all American air raid against ‘Wireway’ machine with a built-in 574-277-6976 and leave message. clovervillageapartments.com http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Washington, DC. Germany took place oscillator sold for $149.50. 
Friday, January 27, 2012 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 

TRACK & FIELD 
Indiana Relays to add prep time for Big East 



By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Coming off an impressive performance in the Notre Dame Invitational, the Irish travel to Bloomington, Ind., for the Indi­ana Relays this weekend. 
Now several weeks into its schedule, Notre Dame hopes to continue to add momentum leading up to the first Big East championships of the season. Notre Dame coach Joe Piane said the Indiana Relays repre­sent a great opportunity for the Irish to participate in a compet­itive environment as the meet will include talented represen­tatives from a number of differ­ent schools. 
“It’s a good quality field all the way around which is really important,” Piane said. “You’ve got to have good competition and this appears to be really good competition.” 
In the meet, Piane will also have the chance to see some of his athletes compete in new and unfamiliar events. 
“We’ll find out where some people are in different events,” he said. “Everybody has raced, but we are going to put some people in different events. [Sophomore sprinter] Patrick Feeney and [freshman sprinter] Chris Giesting are going to be running the 200[-meter dash], which they haven’t done as much this year, and Chris cer­tainly hasn’t.” 
Giesting provided the high­light in last weekend’s home event for the Irish by breaking a 29-year-old school record in the 500-meter run his first time competing in the event. The tal­ented freshman is among the group of top performers Piane expects to lead the way for the Irish in their upcoming meet. 
“We have some very good individuals in the field events and we have three very good 400-meter men in Brendan Dougherty, Chris Giesting and Pat Feeney,” he said. “On the women’s side we have some pretty good middle distance and distance and we have some very good sprinters. [Freshman sprinter and hurdler] Kaila Barber is running well, and [se­nior] Maddie Buttinger is one of the better multi-event athletes, certainly in the Big East. So we have some pretty good kids ev­erywhere. We’ve got a good club all the way around, both gen­ders.” 
Competing for the Irish for the first time this weekend will be a trio of football play­ers. Freshman running back George Atkinson III, freshman cornerback Josh Atkinson and sophomore cornerback Bennett Jackson joined Piane’s team for practice this week and will be running sprints for Notre Dame this weekend. 
The meet at Indiana will give Notre Dame’s stars a chance to shine, but will also provide oth­er Irish athletes with an oppor­tunity to earn a spot in the Big East championships, scheduled for Feb. 18 and 19 in New York City. 
“Our goals, always, are to do well at the Big East meets and get to the NCAAs,” Piane said. “We have a lot of kids [who have] qualified for the Big East meet already, and you can’t get to the Big East meet unless you qualify. Then, we hope to get some kids to the NCAA Nation­als.” 
With his team’s long-term goals in mind, Piane expects to see successful results from his athletes this weekend. 
“I think we will do well, I think we will do very well,” he said. 
The Indiana Relays begin at 3 
p.m. Friday and continue all day Saturday at Indiana University. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at       jmonardo@nd.edu 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Friday, January 27, 2012 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Irish host Shamrock Invitational to close home season 

By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
After dominating Michigan State at home last weekend, the Irish will compete at Rolfs Aquatic Center for the last time this season when they host the annual Shamrock Invitational this weekend. 
Big Ten foes Ohio State and Iowa will travel to Notre Dame for the three-team meet. 
The Irish ended a four-match losing streak with a 218-82 team win against the Spartans Jan. 21, highlighted by the performance of sophomore swimmer Kelly Ryan. For her efforts in winning four events — including three in­dividual ones — Ryan garnered the Big East Swimmer of the Week honor, marking the fourth time in eight weeks an Irish swimmer has won the award. 
No. 14 Ohio State will pose a formidable challenge to the Notre Dame swimmers. The Buckeyes hosted the Irish at the beginning of December in the Buckeye Invi­tational and finished first in the five-team meet. Notre Dame fin­ished fourth in the event. Iowa, unranked like Notre Dame, re­cently defeated Illinois and Har­vard in dual meets. 
The Shamrock Invitational will also match two top-ranked freshmen swimmers in both the Big Ten and Big East. 
The Hawkeyes’ Becky Stough­ton earned weekly all-conference honors this past week, the third time she received a conference award this season. Stoughton earned three first-place finishes in the team’s double-dual meet with Northwestern and Harvard. In addition, Collegeswimming. com named her Division I Swim­mer of the Week in early Decem­ber. 
Meanwhile, Irish freshman Emma Reaney achieved similar success in breaststroke and in­dividual medley events. She has been named Big East Swimmer of the Week three times this sea­son. 
Following the Shamrock Invi­tational, the Irish will travel to Muncie, Ind., to face Ball State on Feb. 4 in their final meet prior to the Big East championships. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 

Belles 
continued from page 16 
former players back and here to watch us,” Henley said. “It’s going to be a really good atmo­sphere.” 
With the added crowd sup­port, the Belles will look to avenge a 74-56 loss to the Fly­ing Dutch earlier this season. To do so, the Belles will have to overcome a Hope team that is second overall in the MIAA in both scoring offense and de­fense. While the Belles are fac­ing a tough opponent, Henley said they are treating Hope like any other conference team. 
“I think [the MIAA confer­ence teams] are all big oppo­nents,” Henley said. “I don’t think one is any more impor­tant than another at this point. We are going to prepare like we normally do for the game.” 
The Belles outrebounded Trine by 20 in Wednesday’s win. Henley identified domi­nance on the boards as one key to the game against Hope Sat­urday. 
“It’s really more about us continuing to box out, control­ling the boards at both ends, creating second shots for our­selves and playing great team defense,” Henley said. 
A victory Saturday would bring Saint Mary’s back to an overall .500 record and solidify the Belles in the fourth spot in the MIAA with only six games left in the regular season. With only the top four teams set to advance to the MIAA playoffs, Henley said the Belles need their core group of seniors to lead the way. 
“These five seniors have been doing great things since they have arrived on campus their freshman year,” Henley said. “They are a very talented group. We go as they go. They are certainly our leaders and need to continue to be so as we go down the stretch here.” 
The Belles will tip-off against Hope in front of a crowd of for­mer players Saturday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.ed 
McGraw 
continued from page 16 
win for us, and now we’ve moved on and we are looking forward to Saint John’s. It’s the most important game on our schedule right now.” 
The Red Storm (13-7, 5-1) come into the game having won six out of their last seven contests, a stretch that has made them candidates for a national ranking. 
“They are a team that is a potential top-10 team,” Mc­Graw said. “They’ve got a great athletic team. They’ve got really good guards, good post play and, for them, this is a huge game. If they can beat us they are going to jump into the rankings, so we’ve really got to be ready.” 
Saint John’s already has a pair of wins against top-15 teams this season, both com­ing at home against Big East opponents. It took down No. 14 Louisville with a 72-64 victory on Jan. 1 before cap­turing a 62-57 upset victory against then No.7 Rutgers on Jan. 17. McGraw said the Irish will need to take to the road ready to play if they are to avoid being the next vic­tims of an upset. 
“I don’t worry about a let­down so much as we’ve really got to be playing our game,” she said. “Teams are going to take their best shot at us 
— we’ve got to be ready for it. We are going on the road, hostile environments. We’ve got to be ready for everything we face and we have to keep getting better.” 
Offensively, junior guard Eugenia McPherson leads the Red Storm with 14.2 points per game and ranks in the top-15 of the Big East in both scoring and three-point field goal percentage (.364). McPherson has scored in double figures in 15 straight games and was selected to the conference weekly honor roll on Monday for the third time in the 2011-2012 sea­son. 
Still, the Irish come into the game with confidence on their side. Notre Dame has won each of its previous five games by at least 20 points, led in part by junior guard Skylar Diggins. Diggins is contributing 16.6 points and 
5.8 assists per game for the season and is a key part of Notre Dame’s transition of­fense, a facet of the game that has powered the Irish offensively. 
“I think we have a lot of confidence,” McGraw said. “We are playing well … we feel like transition is our game. We can really go. And that’s something we have been working on all year long, that is where we are at our best - when we have the ball in our hands and we are running the floor.” 
The Irish will put their winning streak on the line when they travel to Saint John’s Saturday for a 12 p.m. tip-off. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


Friday, January 27, 2012 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Notre Dame looks to clinch tourney berth 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish head to Michi­gan this weekend in hopes of earning a ticket to the Na­tional Team Indoor Champi­onships. 
No. 21 Notre Dame will face No. 35 Yale in the first round of the qualifying tournament, which will fol­low a dual-match format. The winner of Saturday’s matchup will play the win­ner of No. 10 Michigan and No. 40 Maryland the next day for a spot in the national tournament, which will take place in Charlottesville, Va. in February. 
Irish coach Jay Louder-back said the Irish should not be surprised by their first round opponent, who they defeated 7-0 early last season. 
“We played Yale last year, so we know a lot of their kids and they’re very deep. Their entire team’s back and they have a couple freshmen in,” Louderback said. “We had close, tight matches with them last year, so we’re looking forward to a really good match. They have all three doubles teams in the rankings. But I think their big thing is just their depth; it is very, very good.” 
The Bulldogs’ three ranked doubles teams will be a challenge for the Irish doubles pairings, one of Notre Dame’s greatest strengths. 
“I think one of the things that’s going to be really good for us this year is our doubles,” Louderback said. “We’ve always had good doubles teams but this year we have the chance to have one of the best doubles line­ups we’ve had.” 

If the Irish beat Yale, they are likely to face the hosting Wolverines in the final. 
“We lost to them last year; they’re ranked No. 10 right now in the preseason,” Louderback said. “They’ve got a young team — they have three freshmen, either two or three that’ll play in their line-up. One of them is playing No. 1 for them; she won our regionals and is very, very good. Even though they lost three seniors and brought in the three fresh­men, they are as good if not better this year, I think.” 
Notre Dame last qualified for the National Team In­doors three years ago, but Louderback said that the qualifying tournament will serve a useful purpose even if the Irish don’t win. 
“The winner of this goes to the Indoor, so there is a little bit more at stake right now compared to other ear-ly-season matches,” Loud­erback said. “But for us, I think most of the team is looking at it as a chance to get in two really good dual matches early. A lot of kids tend to play better once they’ve gotten to play a little longer, so playing two tough ones this early is not easy but it gives us a chance to get some good matches in and then also we’re hoping our kids just compete very well.” 
The Irish will take on Yale in Ann Arbor, Mich. at 2 
p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Team looks to get back on track 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 

Following a tough 4-3 loss at No. 17 Illinois last Sun­day, the No. 28 Irish look to rebound this weekend when they travel to Columbus, Ohio, to face Indiana Sat­urday and either No. 3 Ohio State or Cornell Sunday. 
Irish coach Bobby Bayl­iss said he expects a win against Indiana would mean facing Ohio State, while a loss would bring on Cornell. 
“Going into this weekend, it’s a big weekend for us,” Bayliss said. “If we beat In­diana, then we’ll get to play Ohio State. So that will be a great opportunity. We want to maximize that. If we lose, we’ll [play] Cornell, who was the Ivy League champion last year. They’re not going to beat Ohio State.” 
In addition to a potential showdown against a top-5 opponent, the two match-ups this weekend bring an opportunity to avenge mis­takes made against the Illini (3-0). 
“We were clearly pretty disappointed because we were in a position to beat Illinois and we mainly just played one really bad dou­bles match and that ended up as we look back on it — you don’t know it at the time 
— that particular match is the one you’d like to replay,” Bayliss said. “We’re good enough to be in a match with anybody we play, including the very best teams in the country. It’s just a matter of capitalizing when the op­portunity presents itself and that’s something we didn’t quite do.” 
Though the Irish (3-1) fell to Illinois, sophomore Greg Andrews defeated No. 24 Roy Kalmanovich in straight 

JAMES DOAN/The Observer 
Freshman Michael Fredericka returns a backhand during the Napa Valley Invitational on Sept. 24. The Irish face Indiana on Saturday. 
sets. Andrews has started the year with a perfect 4-0 record in singles play along with a 3-1 doubles record with senior partner Casey Watt. Andrews earned Big East Men’s Tennis Athlete of the Week honors for his performance against Illinois and William & Mary. 
“Greg’s always been a hard worker and he arrived last year, I think, as truly one of the better freshmen in the country and didn’t do any­thing to make us think oth­erwise and he had a strong year for us playing at No. 4,” Bayliss said. “This year, the challenge [is] he’s up near the top of the lineup, he’s playing No. 2 right now and he’s going to play much bet­ter players. 
“We’ve had trouble the last couple of years getting wins in the top part of the lineup and it’s nice to feel that I think Casey’s playing better this year and for Greg to move up high and give us some strength up there, I think we’re in much bet­ter shape in that part of the lineup than we have been in the past.” 
Andrews and the Irish will try to take down Indiana at 10 a.m. Saturday in Colum­bus before facing either Ohio State or Cornell Sunday. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


MEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish finish regular season at home 
By JONATHAN WARREN 
Sports Writer 

Having won their past three meets, the Irish ride a wave of momentum into the home Shamrock Invitational. The meet, the last of the regular season, pits the Irish against No. 14 Iowa from the Big Ten. 
The Hawkeyes defeated the Irish at the Iowa Invitational earlier this season. Iowa took second at the meet with a score of 723, while the Irish fol­lowed in third with 511 points. Irish coach Tim Welsh said the Irish and Hawkeye schedules could have an effect on how the matchup goes this time around. 
“When we met at Christmas time, things were similar in that both teams were training before a break,” Welsh said. “But now, our Big East Champi­onship is three weeks away, and their Big Ten Championship is five. Because of when our con­ference tournaments are, we could be at very different train­ing levels.” 
The Hawkeyes are coming off a win over Northwestern (178-120), who the Irish beat earlier in the season (157-143). The Hawkeyes rank in the top­10 nationally in three events: the 50-yard freestyle, 200-yard freestyle relay and 400-yard freestyle relay. 
“Iowa is fast,” Welsh said. “They were a solid team and strong. They’ll be the strongest team we’ve seen this semester for sure.” 
The Irish head into the re­match with Iowa hoping the mo­mentum of a three-match win­ning streak turns into a better performance the second time around against the Hawkeyes. 
“I think we have quite a lot of momentum,” Welsh said. “We swam well the past few weeks and have been building that momentum. Because it’s our last competition in this pool, we want to salute our seniors. We want to pay tribute to them with our performance.” 
This meet marks the last time the Irish seniors will swim in Rolfs Aquatic Center. The se­niors will be introduced as a team and one-by-one Saturday and will be featured in a video tribute. 
“We want to pay tribute to what they’ve done here,” Welsh said. “They’ve been very loyal and spirited for Notre Dame. They’ve helped this team grow both athletically and personally across the board.” 
In addition to being the last meet for the seniors, the invi­tational will also be a practice run for the Big East Champion­ship. The invitational is a three-day event that goes through a full championship program in the same order as the NCAA championships. Welsh said to have a dual meet with a full championship program is un­usual, but the Irish will use it to their advantage. 
“It’s like a dress rehearsal,” Welsh said. “The NCAA cham­pionships is a three-day meet, so we modeled it after that.” 
The meet will give Welsh and his staff a chance to assess his team one last time before the Big East Championship. 
“We need to look at this meet and say ‘This is where we are, and this is where we need to be. This is what we like, and this is what we need to fix.’ It’s going to be a pretty thorough analy­sis.” 
The three-day meet against the Hawkeyes begins Friday at 6 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Jonathan warren at jwarren3@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Friday, January 27, 2012 

Jackson 
continued from page 16 
the league,” he said. “We need to do a good job of supporting the puck, and getting people in front of net. We’ll have to work hard to get that first goal, and play 60 solid minutes of hockey.” 
While frigid Fairbanks is by far the most remote location the Irish will play in this year, it will be a homecoming for Notre Dame’s two native Alaskans. One of those players is sopho­more goaltender and Anchor­age native Steven Summerhays, who has taken over for junior Mike Johnson as the primary goalie with inspired play as of late. Summerhays will get at least one start in front of his friends and family this week­end, but beyond that Notre Dame’s situation in the crease is uncertain. 
“Steven has made it a lot harder for us with the way he’s played,” Jackson said. “Mike has played some great games for us too, and they’re both very much in the mix going forward.” 
With just a few series left be­fore the CCHA playoffs, Notre Dame’s main focus for the weekend will be to leave town Sunday with two wins and six valuable points in the confer­ence standings. However, as the games grow more important towards the end of the year, Jackson is also looking for a more even and consistent per­formance from his team. 
“We haven’t been as consis­tent as we’d like over the past few games,” he said. “We’ve been defending better, and our goaltending has improved, but now our special teams have tak­en a hit. It’s about getting our game together as a team and playing consistent hockey.” 
The Irish and Nanooks will face off Friday and Saturday in Alaska’s Carlson Center. The puck will drop both nights at 
11:05 p.m. Eastern Time. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
Support 
continued from page 16 
status, Bednarski said. 
“There’s a long list of teams who are coming to compete here, and they’re all pretty strong teams who will try to get as many points as they will be able to take from us,” Bednarski said. “We don’t have many oppor­tunities to fence against [lo­cal schools] — maybe once a year — because as an in­dependent we are traveling everywhere. Luckily, we can fence against some Midwest teams [this weekend].” 
Despite the stiff competi­tion, Bednarski anticipates a strong performance from the Irish. Underclassmen have been counted on throughout the season, with many of the top fencers taking the year off to prepare for the Olym­pics. 
According to Bednarski, this weekend will be no dif­ferent. 
“It will not be an easy com­petition,” Bednarski said. “We will be trying to look for new leaders for our team in a situation when four or five athletes took a year off to train for the Olympics. The younger order of kids are stepping up and getting ex­perience. They are trying to lead us. It’s a great chance for us to look for a new social structure in the team and it’s going pretty well so far.” 
This weekend also affords the Irish fencers the op­portunity to improve their personal standing, with the hope of qualifying for the NCAA championships in March. That being said, Bednarski knows the impor­tance of the competition for the team as well as the indi­viduals involved. 
“Each bout is important for individual fencers as well as the team, but individually they can qualify for the in­dividual competition,” Bed­narski said. “There will be very tough matches for ev­eryone because those who fence against us are in the same situation.” 
From a team and individ­ual standpoint, the Irish are planning on regaining the form that led them to last year’s NCAA title. 
“I don’t think we’ll have trouble in this competition,” Bednarski said. “I expect our fencers to fence strongly and I expect to win on both sides, men’s and women’s.” 
The Irish women get un­derway Saturday in the JACC, while the men take to the mats Sunday. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

UConn 
continued from page 16 
nati. 
Notre Dame’s 55-42 road victory over an upstart Seton Hall team on Wednesday was no exception, with the Irish holding the Pirates (15-5, 4-4) to almost 30 points be-of his young team. 
“I’m really proud of our team,” he said. “Most groups after what we did on Satur­day would not be as focused and would be given a free pass since our fans are still celebrating [the Syracuse win] back home. For our group to come and win this after such a big win shows that we have the 

low their sea-“I’ve been telling [the makings of 
son average. team] if you get this something The Irish gave one, everyone will look special.” up only 18 In their 
around and say ‘Uh­
points in the last meet-
oh, you’re right in the 
first half and ing, the 
middle of this thing.’” 
held one of the Huskies top scoring (14-5, 4-3) duos in college Mike Brey ended Notre basketball, se-Irish Coach Dame’s 29­
nior forward Herb Pope and senior guard Jordan Theo­dore, to 16 points combined. 
“The ugliness of the game was good for us because we have won some ugly ones this year and were able to con­trol the tempo,” Brey said. “I thought the defense was fab­ulous the whole night, espe­cially on Theodore who may be one of the best guards in the league right now.” 
While stifling opponents on one end of the court, the Irish have also had their struggles on the offensive end, ranking 177th in the NCAA in scoring with 68.2 points per game. Despite shooting 50 percent from the field in Saturday’s upset over then-No. 1 Syracuse — while holding the Orange (21-1, 8-1) to 34 percent shooting — Notre Dame only connected on 13 shots while going the last 8:50 of the game without a field goal. Given the quick turnaround following an emotionally draining, sea­son-defining upset over the No. 1 team in the country, Brey said the win over Seton Hall added to the maturation 
game home winning streak, led by sopho­more guard Shabazz Napi­er’s 16 points and a double-double from freshman center 
Andre Drummond. Despite the indefinite suspension of freshman guard Ryan Boatright while the NCAA investigates his recruitment, the Huskies rode a second-half outburst to a 67-53 vic­tory Jan. 14 on Notre Dame’s home court. 
The Huskies are currently in a two-game slump follow­ing three-point losses to Cin­cinnati and Tennessee, but the Connecticut big men will provide a tall task for the Irish frontcourt, which was outrebounded 42-30 in the Jan. 14 contest. 
“I’ve been telling [the team] if you get this one, ev­eryone will look around and say ‘Uh-oh, you’re right in the middle of this thing,’” Brey said. 
The Irish will try to exact revenge when they travel to Storrs, Conn., to take on the Huskies on Sunday at 12 p.m. 
Contact andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 


Friday, January 27, 2012 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 

WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 




JOE MILLER and KELLY LYNCH 
HENRY ARNOLD 
JUMBLE

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, January 27, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

On the road again 
Irish travel to take on No. 24 UConn 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
On the heels of a run of strong defensive play, Notre Dame heads on the road Sunday to take on defending NCAA champion and No. 24 Connecticut. 
Irish coach Mike Brey ac­knowledged the need for his team to continue to focus on the defensive end against the high-tempo Huskies. 
“The way we [play]: the tempo is low, the score is low, but we never stop defend­ing,” Brey said. “It shows a lot of maturity in this team that they definitely couldn’t have done way back in No­vember or December. They have come a long way in that department.” 

In eight Big East games this year, the Irish (13-8, 5-3 Big East) have allowed more than 67 points only once, a 71-55 Jan. 4 loss at Cincin-KIRBY McKENNA/The Observer 
Freshman forward Pat Connaughton blocks a shot during Saturday night’s game against Syracuse. see UCONN/page 14 The Irish upset the then-No. 1 Orange 67-58. This weekend Notre Dame travels to play Connecticut. 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to face Hope 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
With many Saint Mary’s basketball alumnae in the crowd, the Belles will try to accomplish Saturday what the former players only did once in the last seven sea­sons — defeat highly-ranked conference opponent Hope. 
The Belles face the No. 20 Flying Dutch in an at­tempt to extend their win­ning streak to three after Wednesday’s victory over Trine. The school will put on a special Saint Mary’s Alum­nae game before tip-off in an event Belles coach Jenn Henley said will improve home-court advantage. 
“Our alumnae game takes place before our game so I know we’ll have a lot of our 
see BELLES/page 12 


HOCKEY 

Irish take long journey to face tough Alaskan competition 
By JACK HEFFERON Alaska (8-12-4, 5-11-4 CCHA) the Irish (14-9-3, 9-6-3), the 5:30, Alaska Time. That’s a 12-in shutouts, and the team’s 2.58 Sports Writer may sit near the bottom of the grueling journey north began hour trip. That said, it gives us goals-against average places its 
conference standings, but the Tuesday, a day earlier than nor-the opportunity to get acclimat-defense in the top-20. For Jack-
No. 4 Notre Dame has cooled trip to Fairbanks is a notori-mal. ed to the time change and the son, the key to finding the net off recently, following up a four-ously difficult one. Five of the “It’s a marathon,” Irish coach weather, and practice up here.” will lie in playing smart and game winning streak by losing Nanooks’ eight wins have come Jeff Jackson said via phone. “We Notre Dame will use some of matching Alaska’s work rate. three of its last four. This week-at home, with Alaska stealing came up a day early because of that practice time to solve Alas-“[Alaska] competes extremely end, the team travels to take points from conference pow-the potential for bad weather, ka’s defense, one of the top units hard, and they execute their on Alaska’s notoriously stingy ers like Michigan and Western and it is a long trip. We took off in college hockey. Nanooks se-systems as good as anyone in defense in a pair of important Michigan in the friendly con-from Chicago at 9:30 Wednes-nior goaltender Scott Green-conference games. fines of the Carlson Center. For day morning, and got here at ham ranks fifth in the nation see JACKSON/page 14 

FENCING 

Away trips put on hold to host Dame Duals 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Throughout the season, the Irish have racked up their fair share of frequent flyer miles traveling from coast to coast for competitions. Not once, however, have the Irish fenced within the friendly confines of the JACC. 
That changes this week­end as Notre Dame hosts 17 schools for the Notre Dame Duals, with the women on the mats Saturday, and the men in action Sunday. 
The Irish are excited to be staying home for a change, something they hope will lead to a strong showing, Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
“This is a competition on our site so we expect, as we always do at home, to make good results because it’s al­ways easier to get support for our side than for the [oppo­nents’] side,” Bednarski said. 
Bednarski hopes that such support will come from the Notre Dame student body. 
“These matches can be tough for us,” Bednarski said. “I would like to have the sup­port of our students if they can come before 4:30 on Sat­urday because that will be our last match against Northwest­ern and they are usually very strong.” 
The Irish will host a num­ber of other local teams in addition to Northwestern, in­cluding Michigan, Purdue and Wisconsin, which is a rare and exciting occurrence giv­en Notre Dame’s independent 
see SUPPORT/page 14 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND looks to hold winning streak 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Riding a 17-game win­ning streak and coming off a decisive defeat of Tennessee, the Irish will resume Big East play when they travel to Saint John’s on Saturday. 
No. 2 Notre Dame has won its past 17 games by an average margin of vic­tory of almost 36 points, the most recent victory being a 28-point home vic­tory over No. 9 Tennessee. Despite being in the midst of the third-longest win­ning streak in program history, the Irish (20-1, 7-0 Big East) have honed in on their next task. 
“We approach each game as a separate game,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “[Tennessee] was a great 
see McGRAW/page 12 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
Junior guard Skylar Diggins defends the ball in the Irish’s 76-43 win against Villanova on Jan. 21 at home. 




