

COMMENTARY 

Kelly’s program has evolved 


Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
We said it for last year’s Usc contest, this year’s michigan game and just two weeks ago against stanford. but this time, it’s really true — at least for a few weeks. It’s the biggest game of Irish coach brian Kelly’s career at notre dame. 
stanford might have been a season-defining victory, for it all but guaranteed notre dame a bcs bowl berth and a return to national prominence. beating oklahoma might be a career-defining victory for Kelly. his squad is simultaneously a top-five team and a 10-point underdog. A run at a crystal football awaits the winner of the contest. And he’s taking his team to memorial stadium, one of the toughest places to win in college football: oklahoma is a stagger­ing 79-4 in its friendly confines under coach bob stoops. 
The stakes are high. The lights are bright. The pressure is crushing. And Kelly? he’s lov­ing it. 
“[Games like this] are why you coach at notre dame,” he said Tuesday in his weekly press conference. 
my, how times have changed. 
Almost exactly two years ago, the Irish faced a team from the sooner state. Instead of a contest pivotal in national-championship dreams, this one seemed key to bowl-eligibility hopes. As every Irish fan knows, notre dame dropped to 4-5 after a stunning loss to, yes, Tulsa. Then-freshman quarterback Tommy rees threw three inter­ceptions, including the game-sealing pick when the Irish were in a position to play for a game-winning field goal. 
back then, Kelly was just get­ting his feet wet. he was trying to overhaul a roster stacked with unfulfilled potential at skill po­sitions and mediocrity on the offensive line. This year, he’s winning with a dominant front seven on defense and a running game that comes through when it’s needed — fundamental football if there ever was such a thing. 
The transformation is a testa­ment to Kelly’s vision for the program, but it also speaks to the ways he’s changed since he took the job. After that same Tulsa contest, Kelly told Irish fans to “get used to” aggressive playcalling at the end of games. In the 2012 season (see: Purdue, stanford and bYU), Kelly took the smarter, safer, more conser­vative route — he ran the ball and came out on top. Two-and­a-half years in, he’s learned that playing aggressive all the time doesn’t work, but that picking the right spots to take shots (Tyler eifert’s touchdown catch against stanford) does. 
After spending two years be­ing blunt about the talent levels on his roster — and alienating a lot of his players in the process 
— Kelly has lightened up this year. he’s found the balance be­tween pushing his players hard and having some fun along the way, and the results are evident. The Irish are more focused and more cohesive now than at any time during the last four years, and it’s a big reason notre dame is 7-0 this year. 
Yet at his core, Kelly is still the same coach who was hired in dec. 2009. he’s the coach who emphasizes the “right Kind of Guys,” strong line play and world-class assistant coaches. he’s the coach who will be blunt about his team’s shortcomings and its strengths. he’s the coach who thinks tradition is good, but winning is better. most of all, he’s the coach who thinks he has the recipe to make notre dame a player in the national champi­onship conversation again. 
saturday, we’ll find out if he’s right. We’ll find out if he’s going to extend the legacy of legendary third years by notre dame coaches (Frank Leahy, Ara Parseghian, dan devine and Lou holtz all won national championships in their third years). We’ll find out if the Irish belong at the top of the polls once again. 
And if they do? That would be the biggest sign that the times really have changed. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


RECRUITING 


BYU atmosphere impresses top RB recruit Folston 

By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
notre dame’s ground-and­pound 17-14 victory over bYU last saturday served as the backdrop to an eventful recruiting week­end for the Irish recruiting staff. The Irish hosted several current and future commits and uncom­mitted recruits, with the high­light being 2013 running back prospect Tarean Folston. Folston, a speedy back from cocoa, Fla., is the no. 79 player in the coun­try according to esPn. The Irish already have a commitment at running back in the 2013 class from power back Jamel James, but notre dame recruiting expert mike Frank said Folston and the Irish are a good fit. 
“I think [Folston] really loved his visit. he thinks he fits in re­ally well with notre dame: the players, the culture and the envi­ronment,” said Frank, who runs the esPn-affiliated Irish sports daily. “That aspect is a really big thing for him, and he was really impressed from that perspective. he’s going to take a long time; he’s not going to rush into any deci­sion. It’ll be awhile; I fully expect it to be maybe even January be­fore he makes a decision. 
“I think notre dame did a good job with him, so it’s just time to wait and see what happens. 
They’ve made it known he’s a guy they really, really want and will wait for. At the end of the day, they have a good shot.” 
2013 notre dame linebacker commitment Alex Anzalone made waves over bYU weekend when he cancelled a scheduled recruiting visit to notre dame. Anzalone has been rumored for weeks to be wavering in his com­mitment to the Irish after a posi­tive visit to Florida. Frank said he is worried about the possibility of an Anzalone decommitment. 
“[Anzalone] was playing a late game Friday, and it was out of town, so they cancelled be­cause they couldn’t have stayed on sunday either,” Frank said. “so, where that stands, the staff doesn’t really know. notre dame has done its best to put its best foot forward, but for whatever reason, [Anzalone] seems to have some doubts about the school. I’d say I’m more negative than positive about the situation, and it wouldn’t surprise me if he de-commits.” 
Frank also said the notre dame recruiting staff has work to do to strengthen the com­mitment of another member of its 2013 linebacker class. danny mattingly from spokane, Wash., committed to notre dame on June 26 but is still taking visits to other campuses. Frank said there might be a disagreement about mattingly’s position. 
“[mattingly] is definitely a risk. I think the problem notre dame has run into with danny mattingly is that he wants to play offense, and notre dame recruited him as a defensive play­er,” Frank said. “notre dame has probably told him he is going to end up on defense. The problem is some other schools are saying they will take him as an offensive player because they like him on offense.” 
With two home games remain­ing in the season, Frank said the Irish staff must remain focused on securing the commitment of another defensive back. 
“The priority at this point has to be cornerback. They need a cornerback. That has to be where they are focused right now, with guys like L.J. moore and chris hawkins and Priest Willis still out there,” he said. “one of those guys would have to be the top priority at this point.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com 
Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 




ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2012 | The observer 


Comeback kid 
Junior linebacker Danny Spond completes journey from hospital bed to starting lineup 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate sports editor 
It was a simple routine for danny spond. 
he would wake up. his neu­rosurgeon would visit him. They would discuss his prog­ress. his physical therapist would come in. They would move around. he would rest and wait — wait for a progno­sis, wait for a recovery, wait to walk again. 
The next day, the junior line­backer would wake up in south bend memorial hospital and do it all over again. 
What started as a simple headache grew to a pound­ing and crippling migraine for spond, who spent three days at memorial hospital and one day in a fourth-floor room at the University of michigan’s neurology clinic. 
“It was tough, a lot of tears,” spond said. “I just realized this was all in my plans, all in God’s plan for me. he wasn’t going to give me anything I wasn’t go­ing to be able to face.” 
After spond arrived at the hospital Aug. 8, he could not move the left side of his body and feared he would never walk again — but then the visi­tors began to come. 
The entire coaching staff and senior linebackers manti Te’o and dan Fox stopped by Wednesday night to visit the Littleton, colo., native. spond’s father and girlfriend both made the trip to check in on him. 
“It meant everything to me,” spond said. “I was in the hos­pital alone for a little bit with­out my family because they couldn’t get there right away. Just having my other family there meant everything to me. 

“medicine can only support you for so long until you need your family and friends to help you.” 
despite the upcoming sea­son, spond, who suffered a se­vere concussion in high school, said he could only think of one thing. 
“The only thing I was focus­ing on was my health, being able to fully function again and I had no idea how long it was going to be,” spond said. 
spond, who still does not know what caused the debili­tating migraine, missed the first two games of the season, relegated to the sidelines as notre dame topped navy and Purdue. 
“It was really tough, just watching from the sidelines, acting as a coach really,” spond said. “It was very difficult and it was tough to deal with, a lot of ups and downs. The love for the game just kept me go­ing through. my faith know­ing that I was going to get back out there was my driver. It was very hard. I didn’t like it by any means, hope to avoid it.” 
despite the increased aware­ness on head injuries in foot­ball, spond said the migraine has not affected the way he plays. 
“once I was fully recovered and was confident I was going to be taken care of, I just played my game, just get out there and do what I love to do,” spond said. 
Breaking out 

spond made a full recovery in time to make his first career start at then-no. 10 michigan state, taking over at the drop linebacker position. 

“Going into that week’s prep­aration, I told myself, no matter how good of a game, no matter how bad of a game, we’re just going to give it our all,” spond said. “At the end of day, we’ll be okay. The score and my play will take care of itself. I was very nervous, first start in a college game going up against michigan state, an awesome team and very strong. I was nervous but I knew I was pre­pared for this.” 
spond finished with four tackles in notre dame’s 20-3 domination of the spartans. 
The Knott hall resident played quarterback and de­fensive back in high school and was recruited to notre dame as an athlete but pri­marily played on special teams his first two seasons in south bend. he totaled 14 tackles in 2010 and 2011. 
“It was great for game expe­rience,” spond said. “I learned the game speed the past couple years on there. It definitely had a lot of benefits.” 
As a former quarterback and a current coverage linebacker, spond said his experience on the other side of the ball helps him tremendously. 
“I’ve seen what the quarter­back sees during the game so that definitely helps with my coverages,” he said. “It adds a new dimension to being able to play a game.” 
spond has piled up 22 tack­les, an assisted tackle for loss and an athletic pass breakup despite playing in just five games. he said the production can be attributed to his new­found experience. 
“I’m very comfortable at my spot and I understand my role,” spond said. “The past couple this team. he’s dedicated him-years, I have been a little hesi-self and he could have easily tant to make a mistake here just threw in the towel,” Te’o or there but this year I have a said. “I think it motivated him new perspective on the game, even more to come back bigger, I have a second chance and it’s stronger and faster, and to play time to get out there, play and the amount of snaps that he’s have fun.” playing it takes a lot. It takes a 

spond has been a key cog toll on your body, and for him for an Irish defense that ranks to do what he’s doing and be 
“I just realized this was all in my plans, all 
in God’s plan for me. He wasn’t going to 
give me anything I wasn’t going to be able 

to face.” 
Danny Spond Irish junior linebacker 
second in the country in scor­ing defense, allowing just 9.4 points per game. The political science major has consistently been on the field for not only first and second down but also third down. 
“I think it’s the classic case of somebody making you notice him,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. “his play makes you no­tice him. he’s played extremely well this year, and we knew he had some real strengths at the position for us. he’s thick, he’s strong.  but he’s athletic, and he works really well in space for a big fella. 
“And I think that’s been his development this year, is that he’s kept himself on the field on third down. he’s not just a first and second down guy. I think that speaks a lot to him.” 
Te’o agreed with Kelly’s as­sessment of spond. 
“danny has sacrificed a lot and put a lot of hard work into doing the things he’s doing so as well speaks a lot to his dedi­cation and commitment to this team.” 
during notre dame’s 17-14 win over bYU on saturday, spond had another career first — an interception. on the cougars’ final possession, spond dropped back into cov­erage before making a leaping snag to seal the Irish victory and 7-0 start. 
“That was unbelievable for me, having to get in there and seal the game and having that happen was awesome,” spond said. “The ball went up in the air and there wasn’t going to be anybody that was going to take it away from me.” 
now danny spond has a new routine — no more hospitals, no more headaches, no more bedrest. Just football. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 



SOONERS PASSING 
The Irish defense will face its toughest test yet in sooners senior quarterback Landry Jones. Jones owns nearly every record for an oklahoma quarterback, including wins, passing yards, touch­down passes and completions. The se­nior has already thrown for 1,644 yards and 12 touchdowns this season. In his last three games, Jones has 871 passing yards, seven touchdowns and a quarter­back rating of 151.7 while throwing just one interception. The sooner offense is fifth in the ncAA in scoring, averaging 
44.7 points per game. 
Jones leads a sooner offense that has found its groove since a 24-19 loss to then-no. 15 Kansas state on sept. 22. The sooner have outscored their last three opponents by a 156-48 margin. In those games, oklahoma averaged 
484.7 yards of total offense. Junior re­ceiver Kenny stills remains an explosive threat, leading the sooners in receiv­ing yards (471), receptions (38) and re­ceiving touchdowns (4). Jones and his receiving corps average a first down per completion at 12.4 yards per catch. out of the backfield, junior fullback Trey millard poses a significant passing threat. The fullback averages 15.5 yards per catch and has two touchdowns to go along with his 201 receiving yards. 
Going up against the 24th best pass­ing offense in the country, the Irish secondary has been criticized for its inexperience. but the Irish passing de­fense ranks 14th in the nation, giving up only 174 passing yards per game. sophomore defensive end stephon Tuitt is third in the ncAA in sacks with eight­and-a-half after recording two in notre dame’s 17-14 win over bYU on saturday. meanwhile, only one player in the Fbs has recorded more turnovers than Irish senior linebacker manti Teo’s six. After an interception saturday, Teo is tied with junior cornerback bennett Jackson for the team lead with four. The Irish de­fense gave up a touchdown for the first time in over a month saturday in the form of two passing touchdowns. The Irish also came away with two more in­terceptions against the cougars. 
EDGE: OKLAHOMA 




HEAD TO 
NO. 8 OKLAHOMA 




AP 

SOONERS RUSHING 
Junior running back damien Williams leads a balanced sooner rushing attack with 572 rushing yards and seven rushing touchdowns. but the real twist in the sooner offense is soph­omore quarterback blake bell. Used in short-yardage and goal line situations, the 6-foot-6, 254-pound bell leads the team with eight rushing touchdowns. 
The Irish defense still has not allowed a rushing touchdown this season. The Irish head to norman boasting the sec-ond-best scoring defense in the coun­try and the 15th best rushing defense. Against bYU, the Irish gave up only 66 rushing yards. saturday’s match-up at oklahoma will pit the sooners’ top-ranked red-zone offense against notre dame’s second-ranked red-zone defense. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
SOONERS OFFENSIVE COACHING 
defensive coordinator bob diaco has succeeded at preparing his defense against a variety of threats this sea­son and looks to do the same against the best offense he has seen so far this season. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
SOONERS SPECIAL TEAMS 
oklahoma is the only team in the Fbs to rank in the top six in kick re­turn average (31.2 yards) and punt re­turn average (17.9 yards). Last week sooners returned a 90-yard punt re­turn and a 100-yard kickoff return for 
touchdowns.  
EDGE: OKLAHOMA  
SOONERS SCHEDULE  
sept. 1  @ UTEP                W 24-7  
sept. 8    Florida A&M              W 69-13  
sept. 22 Kansas State                 L 24-19   
oct. 6  @ Texas Tech  W 41-20  
oct. 13  Texas                W 63-21  
oct. 20  Kansas  W 52-7  
oct. 27  Notre Dame  
nov. 3  @ Iowa State  
nov. 10  Baylor  
nov. 17  @ West Virginia  
nov. 24  Oklahoma State  
dec. 1  @ TCU  

AP 
(Jr.) Kenny Stills


WR
 (Fr.) Trey metoyer 17 
(Sr.) Lane Johnson 


LT 
(so.) Tyrus Thompson 71 
(Jr.) DamienWilliams 

(So.) Adam Shead 
RB 


LG
(sr.) dominique Whaley 8 (Jr.) Austin Woods 50 
(Sr.) Landry Jones 

(Jr.) Gabe Ikard 
QB


C
 (so.) blake bell 10 (Fr.)Ty darlington 56 

(Jr.) Bronson Irwin 
(Jr.) Trey Millard 


RG
FB 

(so.) Aaron ripkowski 48 (Jr.) Austin Woods 50 
(So.) Daryl Williams


RT 
 (r-Fr.) derek Farniok 72 
(So.) Geneo Grissom 


TE
(Fr.) Taylor mcnamara 88 
(Sr.) Justin Brown


WR
 (Fr.) durron neal 13 

(Jr.) Aaron Colvin 

CB
(Fr.) Gary simon 27 
(Jr.) Gabe Lynn

NB 
(so.) Julian Wilson 2 
(Jr.) Tony Jefferson 

(So.) Chuka Ndulue
FS
(sr.) Jesse Paulsen 42 


DE 
(sr.) r.J. Washington 11 
(Jr.) Tom Wort 



(r-Fr.) Frank shannon 20 
MLB (Sr.) Casey Walker

DT 
(r-Fr.)Jordan Phillips 80 
(Jr.) Corey Nelson

OLB 
(so.)  Aaron Franklin 25 
(Sr.) Jamarkus McFarland 


DT 
(sr.) david King 90 
(Sr.) Javon Harris 

SS (Sr.) David King 
(Jr.) Gabe Lynn 9 


DE 
(Fr.) mike onuoha 84 
(Sr.) Demontre Hurst 

CB
(sr.) Lamar harris 15 


(So.) Michael Hunnicutt (r-Fr.) eric hosek  47  PK  (Sr.) Tress Way  KO  
(Sr.) Tress Way(r-Fr.) dylan seibert  37  P  (Jr.) Roy Finch(Jr.) brennan clay  24  KR  
(Sr.) Justin Brown (Jr.) Kenny stills  4  PR  (Jr.) Austin Woods  LS  







Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
When the best teams clash in the biggest games under the brightest lights, the simplest things tend to determine the outcome. defense. Turnovers. special teams. mental mistakes. Penalties. Tackling. The list goes on — but the point is, fundamentals matter. 
The sooners are incredibly skilled. Their passing game is a bona fide juggernaut, their defense is stout and they’ll have an amped-up memorial stadium on their side. but their offensive line is young, and their rush defense has shown vulnerability. In the end, though, this game will be won in its waning minutes by the team that makes fewer mistakes and has a stronger will to win. It’s going to be epic, and it’s going to be remembered for a long time. especially since the Irish are going to pull it off. 


Andrew Owens 
Assistant managing editor 
notre dame has two factors in its favor heading into saturday’s top-10 clash with oklahoma. The sooner rush defense ranks 46th in the country — lowest among top-10 teams — and oklahoma’s turnover margin ranks 43rd. If the Irish can force turnovers, protect the football and estab­lish the running game early in norman, they have a chance. 
I just don’t see those three stars aligning this weekend for the no. 5 Irish. notre dame should compete in any game because of its elite defense, but the stagnant offense will fi­nally catch up to brian Kelly’s squad. 
The Irish run defense will hold running back damien Williams in check, but this will be the week notre dame’s secondary makes a couple costly miscues in a sooner victory. 

Chris Allen 
sports editor 
over a month has passed since, but this sure feels a lot like michigan state week. Yet again, the Irish head on the road to a top-10 opponent fresh off an ugly home win against an inferior team. Yet again, for many of the same reasons, few think the Irish will win. but on the field in east Lansing, this team showed that there was quite a bit more to the story. There is more to the story this week, too. 
Against an oklahoma offensive line that has endured an up-and-down season — against tame big 12 defenses 
— bob diaco will unleash his playbook and let the likes of stephon Tuitt and Prince shembo free. Landry Jones and oklahoma got punched in the mouth by Kansas state and backed down. The Irish are built like the Wildcats and may do the same. 

FINAL SCORE: notre dame 24, oklahoma 21 FINAL SCORE: oklahoma 23, notre dame 10 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 24, oklahoma 21 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2012 | The observer 


TO HEAD 

NO. 5 NOTRE DAME 

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer OE KENESEY| The Observer 

IRISHPASSING the Irish their only rushing touchdown sophomore quarterback everett saturday early in the fourth quarter to KeiVarae Russell (Fr.) 
Golson is back in the starting role after give notre dame a lead it wouldn’t relin-

CB 43 Josh Atkinson (so.) 
missing saturday’s 17-14 win over bYU quish. Atkinson has recorded 314 rush-due to a concussion suffered the previ-ing yards and leads the Irish with four ous week. Filling in for Golson, junior rushing touchdowns and an impressive 

Danny Spond (Jr.) 

OLB 
quarterback Tommy rees threw for 117 8.1 yards per carry. 
30 ben councell (so.) 
Zeke Motta (Sr.) 



29 nicky baratti (Fr.) yards with a touchdown and an inter-The sooners have the no. 12-ranked 
S
Kapron Lewis-Moore (Gr.) 


ception while completing less than half scoring defense in the country, giving 
DE 
91 sheldon day (Fr.) 
Dan Fox (Sr.) of his passes. Golson leads the Irish up 15.3 points per game. The sooners 

ILB 
44 carlo calabrese (sr.) 

Louis Nix (Jr.) with 968 passing yards and four touch-also give up 138.2 rushing yards per 
NG 
Kona schwenke (Jr.) 


Manti Te’o (Sr.) downs and has also thrown three inter-game, good enough for 46th-best in the 

96 ILB 
59 Jarrett Grace (so.) 

DE 
Stephon Tuitt (So.) ceptions. The win over bYU saw senior nation. Against the Jayhawks last week, 
69 Tony springmann (so.) 
Matthias Farley (So.) tight end Tyler eifert return to form with the sooners gave up 185 rushing yards, 
24 chris salvi (sr.) 

S 
four receptions for 73 yards and a touch-while they gave up 213 rushing yards in 
Prince Shembo (Jr.) 

OLB 
11 Ishaq Williams (so.) down. eifert leads the team in receiving a 24-19 loss to Kansas state. with 319 yards and three touchdowns EDGE: NOTRE DAME while junior receiver T.J. Jones leads the 
CB 
21 Bennett Jackson (Jr.) team with 21 recptions and is second on IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 
Jalen brown (so.) 
the team with 275 receiving yards and The Irish may have found a niche in its two touchdowns. rushing attack, but brian Kelly’s spread oklahoma’s passing defense ranks offense has been inefficient in the pass-ninth in the country in passing defense, ing game. meanwhile, oklahoma coach 
T.J.Jones (Jr.) 


10 
giving up only 163.5 passing yards per bob stoops and his brother, defensive 
WR 
davaris daniels (so.) 
game. senior safety Javon harris leads coordinator mike stoops, have a track 
Robby Toma (Sr.) 


19 davonte’ neal (Fr.) the sooners with four interceptions, record as one of college football’s great including two last week in a 52-7 win defensive coaching staffs. over Kansas. In their last three games, EDGE: OKLAHOMA 

Christian Lombard (Jr.) the sooners have forced nine turnovers, 
WR 
RT 
64 Tate nichols (Jr.) 
with seven of them coming as intercep-IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS 
Theo Riddick (Sr.) 
Mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) 


72 
20 cierre Wood (sr.) tions. Junior safety Tony Jefferson leads sophomore kicker Kyle brindza missed 
RB RG 

nick martin (so.) 
the team in tackles with 48. two field goals against bYU and is 1-for-3 
Everett Golson (So.) 
Braxston Cave (Gr.) 

C 
57 mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) QB 
11 Tommy rees (Jr.) EDGE: OKLAHOMA in field goals of 40 yards or more. senior punter ben Turk averages over 40 yards 
Chris Watt (Sr.) 
65 conor hanratty (so.) 

LG 
IRISH RUSHING per punt, but the Irish average only 2.8 
LT 

Zack Martin (Sr.) In the last three games, the Irish have yards per punt return with freshman re­
78 ronnie stanley (Fr.) 


rushed for 796 yards, led by senior run-ceiver davonte neal. Atkinson averages 
TE 
Tyler Eifert (Sr.) ning back Theo riddick. riddick had a 19.4 yards per kick return and has yet to 
18 ben Koyack (so.) 
career game last week against bYU, rush-show the same explosiveness on returns ing for a career-high 143 yards and aver-as he did last year. 

WR 

John Goodman (Gr.) aging 9.5 yards per carry. The highlight EDGE: OKLAHOMA 
87 daniel smith (Jr.) 
of the afternoon came on a hard-fought 55-yard run in the third quarter where IRISH SCHEDULE riddick kept his balance and nearly ran sept. 1 vs. Navy W 50-10 for a touchdown. riddick leads the team sept. 8 Purdue W 20-17 with 451 rushing yards and 95 carries. sept. 15 @ Michigan St. W 20-3 Just as he did in a 41-3 win over miami sept. 22 Michigan W 13-6 


Kyle Brindza (So.) 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 


40 nick Tausch (sr.) 
40 nick Tausch (sr.) on oct. 6, senior running back cierre oct. 6 vs. Miami W 41-3 
KO 
PK 
Wood gave the Irish a second running oct. 13 Stanford W 20-13 (OT) 
George Atkinson (So.) 
Ben Turk (Sr.) 
6 Theo riddick (sr.) 27 Kyle brindza (so.) 

KR 
P 
back with over 100 rushing yards in a oct. 20 BYU W 17-14 
PR 
LS 

Davonte’ Neal (Fr.) single game with 114 yards on 18 car-oct. 27 @ Oklahoma 
Jordan Cowart (Sr.) 


61 scott daly (Fr.) 81 John Goodman (Gr.) 
ries. since missing the first two games nov. 3 Pittsburgh to suspension, Wood has rushed for 393 nov. 10 @ Boston College yards and two touchdowns. sophomore nov. 17 Wake Forest running back George Atkinson gave nov. 24 @ USC 


Andrew Gastelum 
Associate sports editor 

For notre dame, this is the gauge game: The game that will determine whether this notre dame team is for real or just plain lucky. 
The key to this game will be controlling possession, mean­ing the Irish must run the ball effectively and hold onto it. nothing would be better for everett Golson on the road than to hand the ball off on almost every single play rather than feel the pressure of having to try to do everything himself. 
on the road, the Irish cannot settle for field goal attempts. To win this one, they have to take advantage of their scoring opportunities because the defense will be occupied with Landry Jones and the prolific oklahoma offense. 
but somehow and someway, they will, just like they have done all season long. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 24, oklahoma 23 


Matthew DeFranks 
Associate sports editor 
Let’s look at the stats. oklahoma’s scoring offense is fifth in the country and is averaging 52 points per game in their last three contests. 
now let’s check out the other side of the story. The sooners’ biggest wins are over Texas and Texas Tech while they lost to the only elite team they faced — Kansas state. In the win, the Wildcats rushed for 213 yards against oklahoma while forcing three sooner turnovers. can the Irish do that? of course. 
but the question is will they? everett Golson and the three notre dame running backs should be able to carve out some space in the oklahoma defense and the Irish front seven could cause problems for Landry Jones. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 16, oklahoma 14 



The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Shembo evolves into pass-rushing force 

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 

Irish junior linebacker Prince Shembo chases BYU quarterback Riley Nelson during Notre Dame’s 17-14 victory over the Cougars on Saturday. Shembo has been one of the main  pass rush­ers for the Irish, recording two sacks on the season. He is tied for the Irish lead in quarterback hurries with eight on the year. 
little things. That’s where it really “To be honest, I like road of little kids. We like to have fun a weapon out there,” senior line-
By ANDREW GASTELUM 

Associate sports editor happens.” games. I like away games,” and run around.” backer manti Te’o said. “If you 
Irish coach brian Kelly said the shembo said. “I like when people shembo sets the edge for the look at him, Prince is not that big, 
before notre dame home reason the coaching staff moved come and they have stuff to say nation’s second-ranked scoring compared to the guys he’s going games, spectators usually see the shembo to the drop linebacker and everyone is against us. I like defense that gives up only 9.43 up against, but when you watch intimidating sight of junior line-was to make sure the defense that feeling, so I think it will be a points per game and has yet to the tape, that little 6-foot-1 dude backer Prince shembo running had its top talent on the field as great atmosphere [saturday].” give up a rushing touchdown is folding 6-foot-8, 300-pound the sidelines with a key tool to much as possible. “It’s the same mentality. We this season, drawing the praise linemen. so I’m happy to be on the defense’s success. “It was definitely to get our best are never going to change for any of coaches and teammates alike. the same side as Prince shembo.” 
“We brought a sledgehammer players on the field at the time,” game. Whatever the challenge is, “Prince has done a tremendous out and it symbolizes toughness, Kelly said. “And, as you know, we we are going to be the same and job in not only just setting the Contact Andrew Gastelum at that’s what it is,” shembo said. were developing some younger be ourselves. We are like a bunch edge but being a player and being agastel1@nd.edu “It bends a lot of things, smashes players at the position. Prince ob-
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
stuff around like nails and stuff. viously plays much better when 




That’s what we do. It might have we can shorten the field and he been coach [bob diaco’s] idea. can get after the quarterback […] “If it comes [to oklahoma], I’m It’s just a more natural fit for him going to grab it.” being at the cat position.” 
Furnished townhomes include: 
since moving from the drop The charlotte, n.c., native 
• 42’’ flat screen TV 
linebacker position in pass cov-leads the Irish with eight quar­
• Living and dining room sets 
erage to the strong-side rusher terback hurries, a crucial asset this season, shembo has been when going up against one of 
• Furnished bedrooms with desks 
a destructive force in the Irish college football’s most prolific 
Now Leasingfor 2013-2014 
front seven with two sacks and passers in oklahoma senior three tackles for a loss. quarterback Landry Jones. 
“I just worked hard in the off­season,” he said. “The coaches have improved my skill set so I’m trying to be a better overall player. Just studying more film is where it all starts. This is my third year, so obviously funda­mentals and learning my oppo­nent [is key]. Just being a student of the game and working on the 
In his last road game on sept. 15, the Irish upset then-no. 10 michigan state by the score of 20-3 behind shembo’s career-high nine tackles — eight coming in the first half alone. heading into the biggest road game of the season, the third-year linebacker said he is looking forward to the challenge. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
Furnished Only $475 per month per student Unfurnished Only $395 per month per student 
Corner of Ironwood & 23 

2202 South Bend Avenue Choose from spacious 3, 4, or 5 bedroom townhomes 
(574) 855-2432 
with 1560 - 1860 sq. ft. floorplans 
. Local Ownership and Management . 
Call (574)234-2436 to see furnished model 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Join the East Coast Club 

GET THE 423 N. Eddy Street
at psmichiana.com, 
www.kramerhouses.com 
GRILL THING. Get a Complimentary Sub 
*Lease must be signed by December 10, 2012. One signing bonus per lease. 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26 , 2012 | The observer 


Oklahoma offense features top QB Jones 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Assistant managing editor 
A little over a month ago, Kansas state’s defense stifled oklahoma in a 24-19 Wildcat vic­tory that handed sooners coach bob stoops his fourth home loss in 14 years at the helm of the program. 
since then, oklahoma quarter­back Landry Jones has resembled the heisman candidate he was projected to be at the beginning of the season, with seven touch­downs to just one interception during the sooners’ three-game winning streak. but Irish coach brian Kelly said Jones is not the only reason for oklahoma’s of­fensive resurgence. 
“It’s the balance on offense,” Kelly said. “It’s not just Landry Jones.  If it’s just Landry Jones, then they’re not where they are. It’s their ability to run the football equally as well as throwing the football. 
“The offense is certainly about Landry Jones, but more impor­tantly it’s the balance that they have.” 
Jones has been aided by the emergence of sophomore quar­terback blake bell. bell has be­come the de facto goal-line running back in recent weeks for the sooners to the tune of eight rushing touchdowns in four games, earning him the ‘belldozer’ moniker. bell stole the show in the red river shootout against Texas, when he scored four times on 11 rushes in a 63-21 rout of the sooners’ biggest rival. 
“If it’s first and goal from the five, we’re going to have a hard time keeping them out of the end zone,” Kelly said. “And so they bring [bell] in … and he’s big. he’s physical. 
“so I would tell and I told our defensive coaches this: If he’s on the field, we’re going to have to do something really extraordinary, because he’s a tough guy to stop. so, again, I think the way they use them, the circumstances and when he goes into the game, he’s been very, very effective, espe­cially in their short yardage goal line offense.” 
Irish senior linebacker manti Te’o said the approach remains the same despite bell’s 6-foot-6, 254-pound frame. 
“You just hit him. It’s nothing different,” Te’o said. “At the end of the day, you bring him to the ground. It’s nothing different. he runs the same as anybody else. he’s bigger than normal run­ning backs, but that’s football. It’s nothing different.” 
but it’s still Jones’ job to take the offense into the red zone. 

“I am a lot different now. I have been playing a lot better,” said Jones, who passed up the nFL draft to play his senior season at oklahoma. “obviously after games like Texas Tech, Texas and last week against Kansas, you are going to have a lot higher confi­dence and I think everyone on this team is going to have higher confidence because of the way we have been playing.” 
oklahoma dropped to no. 16 in the AP poll after the home loss to Kansas state, who has risen to third in the bowl championship series (bcs) rankings. With the momentum of a perfect october, the sooners are back in the na­tional championship picture with their no. 8 ranking in the bcs. 
“That’s where we want to be,” Kelly said of the level to which stoops has taken the program. “We want that consistency. Year-in and year-out you know oklahoma is going to be part of the conversation. And that’s where we want to get our football program.” 
Kelly and the Irish can take a substantial step to that end this weekend by slowing down Jones and keeping the ‘belldozer’ out of the picture. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 



PAId AdverTIsemenT 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 







