The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 44 | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students evaluate voter ID laws 
As identification requirements tighten, citizens consider inequality, fraud 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
when voters across the nation visit the polls nov. 6, residents of some states may be required to bring along a document they did not need in previous elections — a form of identification. 

The popularity of so-called “voter id laws,” the first of which was enacted in alabama in 2003, has increased greatly over the past several years. presently, 30 states have passed some form of law requiring voters to present a valid form of identification prior to voting in an election. The form of identification re-
senior mickey gardella, presi-quired by states varies. some dent of notre dame’s college state legislatures have passed republicans, said voter id laws strict laws requiring a govern-are reasonable and present a very ment-issued photo id, while oth­small infringement on liberty, if ers will accept anything with an any at all. individual’s name on it, such as 
“it’s very important in prevent-a food stamp card or a utility bill. ing voter fraud and making sure although gardella’s home state people are who they say they are,” of new Jersey does not have a he said. “in today’s day and age voter id law in place, he said he it’s very easy and almost neces-understands the laws are intend­sary to have some form of id.” ed to protect the rights of voting citizens. 
“we look at it as protecting the rights of citizens, that their votes count and there votes are not di­luted by people who should not be voting because they are not citizens, not registered or they’re impersonating someone else,” he said. 
senior Jessie bretl’s home state of wisconsin recently passed a strict id law requiring voters to present photo identification prior to casting their ballots. The law will go into effect after the 2012 elections. 
bretl said she was surprised she did not need to present identifica­tion when she voted in a recall in June and said she will be glad when the new law takes effect. 
“all i needed was my name to be able to vote,” she said. “any person could have said my 
see voTer id PAGE 3 



visitation planned to mourn Zhang 
Observer Staff Report 
students, faculty and staff may pay their respects to saint mary’s sophomore Ziqi Zhang, who passed away oct. 18, on wednesday during a public visi-


tation with her family, according to an email to all college stu­dents monday afternoon. 
Zhang, 19, died from injuries 
see ZiQi PAGE 3 




panel discusses film on migration 
By BEN HORVATH 
news writer 
panelists drew from fic­tion to tackle the real-world challenges faced by mi­grants yesterday when the center for social concerns and department of romance languages and literatures co-hosted a viewing and dis­cussion of the film “al otro lado.” 
“al otro lado,” spanish for “To the other side,” relates the fictional migration ex­periences of three men from the perspective of each man’s wife and children. while the stories each take place in different parts of the world 
— 
morocco, spain and cuba 

—
 the film focuses on the commonalities of the fami­lies’ experiences. 


prior to the viewing, spanish professor ben heller gave a brief history of migra­tion patterns from cuba and mexico to the united states and discussed the signifi­cance of geographical borders and distances. 
“geographical factors are not just things on maps, but are symbolic spaces of trial, transition and growth for mi­grants,” he said. 
french professor catherine perry’s commentary focused on the recent immigration patterns within europe, as one of the film’s narratives featured migration to spain. 
The feature-length film touched on some of the other challenges immigrants face, such as poverty and prejudice. 
panelist and theology pro­fessor fr. dan groody — who 
see migraTion PAGE 3 


ROTC cadets participate in Field Training Exercise 
By PETER DURBIN 
news writer 
a group of army roTc ca­dets from notre dame and other indiana colleges put their training to the test last week­end when they travelled to fort custer in augusta, mich., to participate in a field Training exercise (fTX). 
saint mary’s senior katie roitz said 70 cadets were involved in the exercise from schools including notre dame, saint mary’s, indiana university in south bend, bethel college and valparaiso university. 
“[The exercises are an] oppor­tunity to be challenged during land navigation assessments, garrison leadership positions, and during all situational Training exercise lane train­ing,” roitz said. 
roitz said the events took place throughout the day, as ca­dets were required to complete both day and night land naviga­tion exercises requiring cadets to locate and plot a number of points on a map. 


“They had to figure out their pace count and correctly use … 
their compass in order to find these points”, roitz said. 
The cadets were split into dif­ferent squads and given various tasks to complete, roitz said. each was designed to test how 
see roTc PAGE 4 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


If you could describe your roommate in one word, what would it be? 

Erin Bouquet 
senior off campus 
“spunky.” 

Paul Hurley 
freshman 
o’neill hall 
“pretty boy.” 

Kim Mai 
freshman breen-phillips hall 
“Quirky.” 



Connor Carmichael 
senior 
fisher hall 
“i have a single.” 


Patrick Albright 
junior 
dillon hall 
“canadian.” 


Dan Finan 
senior off campus 
“dimples.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
John cameron Jack hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
dan brombach megan finneran adam llorens isaac lorton 

Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
laura laws maria fernandez 
Photo Viewpoint 

BAVO Speaker Jewish Religious A Time to Heal Dinner Readings from Nuclear Accelerator 
mackenzie sain meghan Thomassen 

Student Center (SMC) Expression in ND Stadium Dante’s “Divine Tours 7 p.m. Byzantine Palestine 5 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Comedy” 124 Nieuwland Hall The Belles Against McKenna Hall Foster community Campus-wide 10 a.m. - 1 p.m. 
Corrections 

Violence Office hosts 2 p.m. - 7 p.m. healing against sexual 2 p.m. - 5 p.m. Tours leave every 15 
The observer regards itself as Debbie Riddle. Register online. violence. Public performance. minutes. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Art Dept. Fundraiser “Know Your Rights as El Día de los Muertos ND Chorale Concert BINGO 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Riley Hall an Author” Hesburgh Center DeBartolo Performing LaFortune Student 
however, recognize that we will make 

11 a.m. - 2 p.m. Geddes Hall 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Arts Center Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

Chili cookoff. Funds 4 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Day of the Dead 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. 10 p.m. - 1 a.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

go to breast cancer Lecture by Nick festivities. Free and Renaissance to Free and open to all 
we can correct our error. 

screenings. Shockey. open to the public. present-day works. students. 


Students prepare for holidays 
By ANNA BOARINI 
news writer 
it may be the day before halloween, but saint mary’s fine arts students and faculty are already revving up for the christmas season. 
The college’s department of music and department of Theatre have begun prepara­tions for the madrigal dinner, an annual medieval-themed holiday celebration in its 40th year at the college. 
Theatre professor michaela duffy said the event incor­porates song and dance into a commemoration of christ’s birth. 
“[The madrigal dinner] is a feast celebrating the nativity, with performers in traditional garb, usually singing tradi­tional christmas music and sometimes featuring actors, dancers, jugglers or other per­formers,” she said. 
This year’s event will in­clude a redesign of the produc­tion’s traditional set. duffy led a team of students responsible for the set redesign for this year’s celebration. 
“The previous scenery was a backdrop hung behind the ris­ers where the singers stand,” she said. “There were also christmas decorations hung throughout the hall. This year, we’re adding backdrops throughout the entire hall and adding even more christmas decorations.” 
having been at the college for seven years, duffy said she is excited to see the revamped production come together. 
“we’ve been very busy painting and sewing and we are very excited to see the new elements for this year’s din­ners,” she said. 
senior sophia korson is also a member of the team working on the set. duffy tasked her scenic design class with the redesign last spring, korson said. 
“as you can imagine, out of our ideas came some good ideas and not so good ideas,” korson said. “but michaela took bits and pieces of our good ideas and added a lot of her great ideas and developed the design that you will see at madrigals this year.” 
korson said the event is not only a chance to perform but also an opportunity to engage with the audience. 
“it’s a great way to meet new people who come year after year to these dinners,” she said. “it’s also just awesome to stand in the middle of a room with everyone watching as you make a fool out of yourself.” 
The madrigal dinner will run nov. 30 through dec. 2. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

Voter ID 
conTinued from page 1 
name and voted for me. The new law will make me more comfort­able that the process is fair and that chances of election fraud would seriously decrease.” 
although the laws have many supporters, opponents of voter id laws claim the laws favor republicans since citizens more likely to vote democrat are also more likely to have difficulties obtaining identification for fi­nancial reasons. 
however, gardella said some states with id laws make provi­sions for these voters. 
“i know in indiana and pennsylvania, if you do not have an acceptable form of id, you can go to the [department of motor vehicles] or the voting office and they will give you a free photo id you can use for voting,” he said. “you have to look at the people who are fol­lowing the law. That’s the people the republican party is trying to defend when we have tried to pass these laws.” 
on the other hand, bretl said she understands the difficulties some people face in acquiring identification. 
“i know it is difficult for some people to obtain ids, whether they cannot afford them or do not have a driver’s license,” she said. “if the restrictions on the id were less strict, i think it would be better for everyone. i just be­lieve something with your name on it should be required, picture or not.” 
florida resident vicky moreno agreed id laws are fair since most states are lenient with the type of identification they will accept. 
“in florida you can even show your food stamp card with your picture on it to vote,” she said. “it doesn’t have to be a license.” 
florida requires voters to pres­ent photo identification but does not limit the type of id as spe­cifically as the new wisconsin law. other forms of acceptable identification include a driver’s license, student identification or a neighborhood association id. 
identification laws such as florida’s are intended to protect voters rather than to deter them from voting, moreno said. 
“i think it’s a nice safety net where people can think there’s a little less fraud,” she said. “The law is meant to prevent fraud, not to deter people from voting and certainly not to exclude low-income or democratic-leaning voters. To suggest otherwise would be inserting a political agenda on an apolitical issue.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
ROTC 
conTinued from page 1 
the cadets would fare in real-world scenarios. 
“[The tasks] helped with their leadership skills and how to act in various situations,” she said. 
cadets were designated leader­ship duties in various capacities on a daily basis, roitz said. 
“[it offered an] opportunity to be exposed to the responsibilities of both company-level leadership as well was squad level leadership in the garrison environment.” 
freshman cadet brett Quick said he enjoyed the leadership tasks the most. 
“it was cool to make decisions and look out for people,” Quick said. 
developing leadership skills in fTX is integral to preparing ca­dets for leadership development 
Migration 
conTinued from page 1 
has personally worked with migrants in mexico, syria and morocco — discussed the theological framework of mi­gration following the film. 
“immigration is a social, political and economic real­ity, but it is also a spiritual and theological journey as well,” groody said. 
groody compared migrants’ journeys from their homeland to humanity’s ultimate jour­ney away from and eventual return to god, applying a theo­logical symbolism on a politi­cal issue. 
“The theology of migration allows us to gain a new imagi­nation of who we are before god,” he said. 
Ziqi 
conTinued from page 1 
sustained in a car-bicycle ac­cident outside the entrance to saint mary’s at state route 
933. a resident of regina hall, Zhang was a dual-degree stu­dent majoring in mathemat­ics at saint mary’s and taking engineering classes at notre dame. she was a resident of Jiangsu province in china. 
her parents, ruicheng and yongli Zhang, travelled to saint mary’s from Xuzhou, china, last week. They ar­ranged for a public visita­tion wednesday at kaniewski funeral home from noon to 2 p.m. The funeral home is located at 3545 north bendix drive in south bend. 
shuttle bus service will be available to students and will depart from the front of le mans hall at saint mary’s, the email stated. The bus is scheduled to leave every half hour between 11:45 a.m. and 
1:15  p.m., and it will return to campus every half hour be­tween 12 and 2 p.m. 
a memorial fund has been established for Zhang’s and assessment course, a re­quired summer program, roitz said. 
“fTX built upon the funda­mentals the cadets have learned in previous labs and classes and used those skill during this event,” she said. “it better pre­pares the [cadet] class for their summer camp and gives them an opportunity for various lead­ership positions.” 
Quick said the experience was exhausting. 
“The most difficult part of the weekend was the lack of sleep and cold,” he said. 
despite the business of the weekend, the roTc students found time for one important lei­sure activity. 
“we got to watch the football game,” he said. 
Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu 
sean o’brien, assistant di­rector at the center for civil and human rights, provided a legal perspective on migration in his remarks following the film’s conclusion. he attribut­ed much of today’s migration to violations of human rights. 
“we recognize human rights as inalienable and univer­sal regardless of legal status,” o’brien said, citing the united nations’ universal declaration of human rights. 
o’brien said the awareness of these rights allow migrants to take advantage of them and improve their situation. 
“These rights are a tool for empowerment for immigrants as well as a set of remedies,” o’brien said. 
Contact Ben Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 
family, and contributions can be made by sending donations to karen Johnson, vice presi­dent for student affairs, saint mary’s college, 175 le mans hall, notre dame, in 46556. checks should be made pay­able to saint mary’s college and indicate in the memo line the donation should be direct­ed to the Ziqi Zhang family. 
college president carol ann mooney expressed her sympa­thy last week during a memo­rial service for Zhang oct. 23 at regina chapel. 
“each of us has lost a sis­ter,” mooney said. “it is ter­ribly difficult to lose a young person with so much talent and so much promise. Ziqi’s death leaves a hole in the saint mary’s community. 
mooney told the crowd gathered at the memorial ser­vice that the college would welcome the Zhang family to the best of its ability. 
“for her family, this is an unspeakable grief,” she said. “when they arrive on campus, we will make every effort to let them know how valued Ziqi was, what a positive contribu­tion to saint mary’s she was and that she had a home here.” 


$200 Signing Bonus* LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES Furnished townhomes include: • 42’’ flat screen TV • Living and dining room sets • Furnished bedrooms with desks Now Leasingfor 2013-2014 Furnished Only $475 per month per student Unfurnished Only $395 per month per student Choose from spacious 3, 4, or 5 bedroom townhomes with 1560 - 1860 sq. ft. floorplans . Local Ownership and Management . Call (574)234-2436 to see furnished model Lafayette Square Townhomes 423 N. Eddy Street www.kramerhouses.com *Lease must be signed by December 10, 2012. One signing bonus per lease.  


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 



IRAN 
iran claims to have israeli base photos 
Associated Press 
Tehran, iran — iran has images of sensitive israeli mili­tary bases taken by a drone that was launched by lebanon’s hezbollah movement and downed by israel earlier this month, a senior iranian law­maker claimed monday in the latest boast from Tehran about purported advances in the capabilities of its unmanned aircraft. 
will respond to israel inside (its) territory, should it take any ac­tion against us,” said kowsari, a former commander of the pow­erful revolutionary guard. 
iran has claimed that iranian­made surveillance drones have made dozens of apparently un­detected flights into israeli air­space from lebanon in recent years. israel has rejected the account. 
iran’s defense minister ahmad vahid also claimed 
MYANMAR 

Victims of ethnic violence criticize government 
Associated Press 
siTTwe, myanmar — victims of ethnic clashes in western myanmar lashed out at the government for failing to prevent violence between muslims and buddhists that has displaced more than 32,000 people over the last week. 
The crisis, which erupted in June, has raised interna­tional concern and posed one of the biggest challenges yet to myanmar’s reformist president Thein sein, who in­herited power from a xenopho­bic military junta last year. 
The latest violence between ethnic rakhine buddhists and rohingya muslims began oct. 21 and has left at least 84 people dead and 129 injured, according to the government. human rights groups believe the true toll could be far higher. 
“The authorities are not solving the problem and sol­diers are not defending us,” said kyaw myint, a muslim who took refuge at Thechaung camp outside the rakhine state capital, sittwe. he fled his home in nearby pauktaw when it was torched wednesday. 
“i feel as though i am in hell,” he said. “we have no one to take care of us, no place to go, and now no job to earn a living.” 

a 37-year-old rakhine trader named maung Than naing, reached by phone in the village of kyauktaw, also expressed anger over the government’s handling of the violence. 
“we are helpless because the government is not dealing with the root of the problem,” he said. “we no longer want to live with the muslims.” 
maung Than naing, who also lost his home in an arson attack, blamed the rohingya for breaking the calm. 
“These poor muslim peo­ple who live hand to mouth burned their own homes so that they enjoy the u.n. aid where they are given shelter and free food,” he said. 
a tense calm has held across the region since saturday, rakhine state spokesman myo Thant said. more police and soldiers have been deployed to increase security, but he de­clined to give details. 
The priority now is to ensure those who lost homes have ad­equate shelter and food, myo Thant said. 
paid adverTisemenT 
although many rohingya have lived in myanmar for gen­erations, they are widely deni­grated as intruders who came from neighboring bangladesh to steal scarce land. 
The rohingya also face of­ficial discrimination, a policy encouraged by myanmar’s previous military regimes to enlist popular support among other groups. a 1982 law for­mally excluded them as one of the country’s 135 ethnicities, meaning most are denied basic civil rights and are deprived of citizenship. 
human rights groups say racism also plays a role: many rohingya, who speak a bengali dialect and resemble muslim bangladeshis, have darker skin and are heavily discriminated against. 
bangladesh, though, also denies them citizenship. The 
u.n. estimates their popula­tion in myanmar at 800,000. 
Tensions have simmered in western myanmar since clash­es first broke out in June after a rakhine woman was allegedly raped and murdered by three muslim men. The June vio­lence displaced 75,000 people 
— also mostly muslims. 
The announcement gave no details about the photos — oth­er than calling the israeli bases “forbidden sites” — but it sug­gested iranian drones have the ability to transmit data while in flight. it also appeared aimed at warning israel about the op­tions for retaliation for any pos­sible strikes on iranian nuclear 
sites.  
a  prominent  lawmaker,  
ismaeil  kowsari,  also  was  
quoted  as  saying  that  the  
iranian-backed  hezbollah  

possesses more sophisticated iranian-made drones than the one that was downed, including some that could carry weapons. 
“These drones transmit the pictures online,” kowsari he told the semiofficial mehr news agency. “The pictures of forbid­den sites taken and transmit­ted by this drone are now in our possession.” 
The lawmaker, who heads the parliament’s defense com­mittee, said hezbollah is “defi­nitely” equipped with more sophisticated drones, but gave no further details. 
a senior israeli military of­ficial in israel’s northern com­mand said he did not believe the drone possessed a camera, though he noted an israeli in­vestigation is continuing. he spoke on condition of anonym­ity under military guidelines. 
hezbollah “won’t announce it as long as it doesn’t see the need to do so ... That’s why we say we on sunday that Tehran has drones far more advanced than the ayub unmanned aircraft launched by hezbollah, saying it was not the “latest iranian technology, definitely.” he did not elaborate. 
hezbollah leader sheik hassan nasrallah has said the ayub drone was manufac­tured in iran and assembled in lebanon. 
iran routinely announces technological breakthroughs in its defense program. last month it claimed to have started producing a long-range missile-carrying drone with a range of 2,000 kilometers (1,250 miles). 
The shahed-129, or witness-129, covers much of the middle east including israel and nearly doubles the range of previous drones produced by iranian technicians, who have often relied on reverse en­gineering military hardware with the country under western embargo. 
but it’s unclear whether the new drone contains any ele­ments of an unmanned cia air­craft that went down in eastern iran last year. iran said it has recovered data from the rQ­170 sentinel and claimed it was building its own replica. 
iran’s claims are impossible to independently confirm because the country’s arsenal is not open to widespread international in­spection with multinational war games or other cooperation. 



u.s. seeks support against militants 
Associated Press 
algeirs, algeria — u.s. secretary of state hillary rodham clinton sought algeria’s assistance on monday for any future military inter­vention in mali, pressing the north african nation to pro­vide intelligence — if not boots on the ground — to help rout the al-Qaida-linked militants across its southern border. 
clinton, on the first stop of a five-day trip overseas, met with algerian president abdelaziz bouteflika as the united states and its allies ramped up preparations to fight northern mali’s break­away islamist republic. 
when mali’s democratically elected leader was ousted in a military coup in march, Tuareg rebels seized on the power vacuum and within weeks took control of the north, aid­ed by an islamist faction. The islamists then quickly ousted the Tuaregs and took control of half the country. 
The u.n. security council has unanimously approved the idea of an african-led military force to help the malian army oust islamic militants, but its details are still unclear. 
one plan would see mali’s embattled government in the south and its west african neighbors taking the military lead to battle with the mili­tants, with the united states and european countries in support. 
any military intervention would likely require algeria, whose reforms have headed off the arab spring tumult expe­rienced by neighbors such as libya and Tunisia and left it with the strongest military and best intelligence in the region. 
clinton said she and bouteflika spoke at length about mali, with the algerian leader appearing to caution against any rash action. 
“i very much appreciated the president’s analysis based on his long experience as to the many complicated factors that have to be addressed to deal with the internal insecurity in mali and the terrorist and drug trafficking threat that is posed to the region and beyond,” clinton told reporters. 

Syrian regime launches widespread airstrikes 
Associated Press 
beiruT — syrian fighter jets pounded rebel areas across the country on monday with scores of airstrikes that anti-regime activists called the most wide­spread bombing in a single day since syria’s troubles started 19 months ago. 
The death toll for what was supposed to be a four-day cease-fire between the regime of president bashar assad and rebels seeking his overthrow exceeded 500, and activists guessed the government’s heavy reliance on air power re­flected its inability to roll back rebel gains. 
“The army is no longer able to make any progress on the ground so it is resorting to this style,” said activist hisham nijim via skype from the north­ern town of khan sheikhoun. 
activists said more than 80 people were killed nationwide monday while videos posted online showed fighter jets screaming over syrian towns, mushroom clouds rising from neighborhoods and residents searching the remains of damaged and collapsed build­ings for bodies. one video from maaret al-numan in the north showed residents trying to save a boy who was buried up to his shoulders in rubble. another showed the dead bodies of a young boy and girl laid out on a tile floor. 

The airstrikes focused on rebel areas in the north­ern provinces of aleppo and idlib, as well as on restive ar­eas in and around the capital damascus. The regime has been bombing rebel areas in the north for months, but had sparingly used its air force near the capital, presumably to avoid isolating its supporters there. 

but analysts say that ram­pant defections and rising rebel capabilities have less­ened the regime’s ability to take back and hold rebel areas, making air strikes its most ef­fective way to fight back. 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





recession may defy next u.s. president 

Hurricane Sandy buffets East Coast 

Associated Press 
washingTon — whoever wins the u.s. presidential election will likely struggle to manage the biggest economic threats he’ll face. 
That’s the cautionary mes­sage that emerges from the latest associated press economy survey. 
europe’s recession will persist deep into the next presidential term, according to a majority of the 31 economists who responded to the survey. a weaker european economy would shrink demand for u.s. exports and cost u.s. jobs. yet there’s little the next president can do about it. 
an even more urgent threat to the u.s. economy, the econo­mists say, is congress’ failure so far to reach a deal to prevent tax increases and spending cuts from taking effect next year and pos­sibly triggering another recession. yet as president barack obama has found, the white house can’t force a congressional accord. 
and whether obama or his republican challenger mitt romney wins nov. 6, he’ll likely have to deal with one chamber of congress led by the opposing party. polls suggest the senate will remain in democratic hands af­ter the election and the house in republican control. 
“it’s not like there’s a clean slate for someone to do what they want,” says Joshua shapiro, chief economist at mfr inc. 
still, there are some ways in which the economists think the white house will be able to drive the economy. 
The next president, for example, could help lift growth and reduce unemployment by backing lower individual and corporate taxes and looser business rules, more than 70 percent of the economists say. They think such policies — the core of romney’s economic mes­sage — would be more likely to help than would obama’s plans for more spending on public works and targeted tax breaks for businesses. 
only about one in five of the economists say obama’s poli­cies would be more likely to help spur growth and reduce unemployment. 
The economists were surveyed before the government estimated friday that the economy grew at an annual rate of 2 percent in the July-september quarter — too slowly to spur rapid job growth. on friday, four days before election day, the government will issue the jobs report for october. 
The ap survey collected the views of private, corporate and academic economists on a range of issues. among their views: 
—
 The u.s. economy and job creation will remain weak the rest of this year but should pick up slightly in 2013. The economy will expand at a 1.9 percent an­nual pace in the second half of 2012, little changed from the first half. next year, they think growth should amount to 2.3 percent, enough to boost hiring slightly. 

— 
americans’ average pay will trail inflation over the next three years, as it has for the past three, a slight majority of the economists say. The tight job market means many employers feel little pressure to raise pay. and rising prices for food and gas could swell inflation and reduce purchasing power. 

— 
lack of customer demand is most responsible for weak u.s. job growth, slightly more than half the economists say. fewer than half say a bigger factor is a short­age of skilled workers or employer uncertainty about future taxes or regulations. 

—
 The $1 trillion-plus budget deficit isn’t significantly worsened by the nearly half of americans who pay no federal income tax or by the lower effective rate paid by the top-earning 1 percent com­pared with a decade ago. fewer than one in five of the economists think either factor is a major con­tributor to the deficit. 


The economists also think the depth of europe’s crisis has made mario draghi, president of the european central bank, even more crucial to the global economy than his counterpart in the united states, federal reserve chairman ben bernanke. 
europe is struggling to control a debt crisis, save the euro curren­cy and prevent the entire region from slipping into recession. if its crisis spread to the united states, another u.s. recession would be possible. 


Associated Press 
aTlanTic ciTy, n.J. — superstorm sandy slammed into the new Jersey coastline with 80 mph winds monday night and hurled an unprece­dented 13-foot surge of seawa­ter at new york city, flooding its tunnels, subway stations and the electrical system that powers wall street. at least 10 
u.s. deaths were blamed on the storm, which brought the presidential campaign to a halt a week before election day. 
for new york city at least, sandy was not the dayslong onslaught many had feared, and the wind and rain that sent water sloshing into manhattan from three sides began dying down within hours. 
still, the power was out for hundreds of thousands of new yorkers and an estimated 
5.2 million people altogether across the east. and the full extent of the storm’s damage across the region was unclear, and unlikely to be known until daybreak. 
in addition, heavy rain and further flooding remain major threats over the next couple of days as the storm makes its way into pennsylvania and up into new york state. near mid­night, the center of the storm was just outside philadelphia, and its winds were down to 75 mph, just barely hurricane strength. 
“it was nerve-racking for a while, before the storm hit. everything was rattling,” said don schweikert, who owns a bed-and-breakfast in cape may, n.J., near where sandy roared ashore. “i don’t see any­thing wrong, but i won’t see ev­erything until morning.” 
as the storm closed in, it converged with a cold-weath­er system that turned it into a superstorm, a monstrous hybrid consisting not only of rain and high wind but snow in west virginia and other mountainous areas inland. 

it smacked the boarded-up big cities of the northeast corridor — washington, baltimore, philadelphia, new york and boston — with sting­ing rain and gusts of more than 85 mph. 
Just before sandy reached land, forecasters stripped it of hurricane status, but the distinction was purely tech­nical, based on its shape and internal temperature. it still packed hurricane-force wind, and forecasters were careful to say it was still dangerous to the tens of millions in its path. 
sandy made landfall at 8 p.m. near atlantic city, which was already mostly under water and saw an old, 50-foot piece of its world-famous boardwalk washed away earlier in the day. 
authorities reported a re­cord surge 13 feet high at the battery at the southern tip of manhattan, from the storm and high tide combined. 
in an attempt to lessen dam­age from saltwater to the sub­way system and the electrical network beneath the city’s financial district, new york city’s main utility cut power to about 6,500 customers in low­er manhattan. but a far wider swath of the city was hit with blackouts caused by flooding and transformer explosions. 
The city’s transit agency said water surged into two major commuter tunnels, the Queens midtown and the brooklyn­battery, and it cut power to some subway tunnels in lower manhattan after water flowed into the stations and onto the tracks. 
The subway system was shut down sunday night, and the stock markets never opened monday and are likely to be closed Tuesday as well. 
The surge hit new york city hours after a construction crane atop a luxury high-rise collapsed in the wind and dangled precariously 74 floors above the street. forecasters said the wind at the top the building may have been close to 95 mph. 
as the storm drew near, airlines canceled more than 12,000 flights, disrupting the plans of travelers all over the world. 
storm damage was project­ed at $10 billion to $20 billion, meaning it could prove to be one of the costliest natural di­sasters in u.s. history. 
Ten deaths were reported in new Jersey, new york, west virginia, pennsylvania and connecticut. some of the victims were killed by fall­ing trees. at least one death was blamed on the storm in canada. 
president barack obama and republican challenger mitt romney canceled their campaign appearances at the very height of the race, with just over a week to go before election day. The president pledged the government’s help and made a direct plea from the white house to those in the storm’s path. 
“when they tell you to evac­uate, you need to evacuate,” he said. “don’t delay, don’t pause, don’t question the instructions that are being given, because this is a powerful storm.” 
sandy, which killed 69 peo­ple in the caribbean before making its way up the atlantic, began to hook left at midday toward the new Jersey coast. 
new  Jersey  gov.  chris  
christie  said  people  were  
stranded  in  atlantic  city,  

which sits on a barrier is­land. he accused the mayor of allowing them to stay there. with the hurricane roaring through, christie warned it was no longer safe for rescuers, and advised people who didn’t evacuate the coast to “hunker down” until morning. 
“i hope, i pray, that there won’t be any loss of life be­cause of it,” he said. 


INSIDE COLUMN 
on failure 

Joseph Monardo 
sports writer 
sports offer the opportunity to excel. successful players can gain glory and wealth in excessive quantities. ordinary people can become household names and athletes can even transcend the sport they dedicate their lives to. 
unfortunately, sport also offers the possibility of failure. monumental, heart­breaking failure befalls a subset of ath­letes who never fulfill their potential. for those who are turned away at the thresh­old of success, the failure is especially devastating. 
several recent events have emphasized this fact. Three separate cases, with three completely separate sets of circumstances and actors, have hammered home what it feels like when transcendent athletes do what the public could never imagine: fail. 
The story of benjamin wilson, a top high-school basketball project from chicago, addressed this very phenom­enon in last Tuesday’s installment of espn’s “30-for-30” documentaries. “benji” described wilson’s meteroic rise into the national spotlight and his subsequent murder in 1984 — he was shot and killed near his high school. wilson did not so much fail as he was robbed of his future. Those interviewed in the film relay the sense that wilson was supposed to have been the best of the city. The residents felt wilson’s success could reflect in some small way on them, that they could share in his triumph. his death instead be­came a stark representation of promise unfulfilled. 
last Thursday the road to redemption of Tyrann mathieu took what could turn out to be a damning blow. The former lsu football star was arrested, along with three other former Tigers, on drug charges after being found with marijuana in baton rouge. The honey badger, after forcing his way into heisman discussion last season, has become another reminder of how tenuous athletic success can be. not a victim of external forces, mathieu has simply proven himself to be unable to handle the responsibilities that come with sports fame. 
south carolina senior running back marcus lattimore suffered a gruesome knee injury saturday against Tennessee. a preseason heisman contender, lattimore suffered his second season-ending injury in as many seasons. for lattimore, and less so for mathieu, the prospects for re­covery seem bright. 
for wilson, however, the path to success was permanently halted. These headlines are dark news for all of us in that their main characters could have been the best. wilson’s death remains tragic, matthieu’s recklessness is disappointing despite its status as a product of individual weakness and lattimore’s pain is our pain. Those who revel in the other-worldly success of athletes better be willing to stick around for the failures that come part and parcel. 

Post-racial rhetoric won’t work 
Alex Coccia 
shard of glass 
racialized rhetoric has been at the fore­front of public conversation both nationally and at notre dame. it surrounded events such as the election of president barack obama in 2008, the shooting of Trayvon martin and the Town hall meeting last spring to discuss instances of racial harass­ment on campus. all of these occurrences have raised a series of questions: is race still an issue? do we create racial tension by bringing it up in conversation? have we reached a post-racial society? 
a recent letter to the editor in The observer (“segregation at the tabernacle,” sept. 3) made the case that we live in a post-racial society and that bringing up race only furthers any divisions: “by focus­ing incoming freshmen on their race, we are not ‘unifying’ them with the rest of campus. until notre dame stops classify­ing its students by race or orientation, the campus will have problems. we, as notre dame, are not made up of ‘white students,’ ‘black students,’ ‘gay students,’ etc. no. we are notre dame.” The intention behind this statement — a vision of a post-racial notre dame — is one of unity. This argu­ment represents an individual assimilation model, which suggests that racial identities would not play any significant role in the incorporation, whether socio-economic, political, etc., of people into broader com­munities. The model suggests that racial divides would be diminished if proponents of policies, such as multiculturalism, that emphasize race would stop their advoca­tions. it suggests that prejudices and their concrete consequences can passively dis­solve over time, and that ultimately, every­one, regardless of race, assimilates to the community, whether to american society or to notre dame’s. 
however, there are problems in adhering to an individual assimilation perspective and in arguing that post-racial rhetoric is needed to bridge the racial divide. The following criticisms acknowledge that race is a social construct. however, they also recognize that it has pervaded societies and manufactured realities that bolster structural inequality. The “perception” of race has created consequences that are all too real and very recognizable. post-racial ideology assumes that these consequences are eliminated psychologically by requiring the oppressed to forget the past wrongs that have been done to them. This assumes it is even a possibility, and practically requires the oppressed to accept the institutional inequality is in fact a “new normal.” notice, however, how both of these options place all responsibility on the non-dominant paradigmatic group. 
This leads to the first criticism: an indi­vidual assimilation model subtly assumes there is a point of equilibrium to which people assimilate. however, the dominant paradigm, in the notre dame context, is white, upper-middle class, straight male. This first assumption is in the phrase, “we are not ‘unifying’ them with the rest of campus,” as if the “rest of campus” is a de­racialized one, and all who choose to step outside it, even registered students, are no longer part of “notre dame.” 
The second criticism is that an indi­vidual assimilation model assumes a level of equality in historical experiences that influence opportunity in society. whatever inequality and oppression that currently do exist are the results of perceived psycho­logical oppression rather than actual physi­cal oppression, and are, therefore, the fault of the oppressed. There is no physically descriptive, normative value to “american society” or “notre dame;” however, by arguing that we live in a post-racial society, we fail to appreciate the historical injustices towards different groups, and we add insult to injury the moment we ascertain that those experiences should be set aside in order for assimilation into the dominant paradigm. 

The third criticism is that an individual assimilation model assumes that silence, or the idea of “the best way to end racism is to stop talking about race,” is the best means to overcome such inequality. silence never works to eliminate oppression, whether physical, psychological or structural, be­cause silence reinforces a status quo that is inherently unequal. 
if the intention of “unification,” for which i believe we should all strive, is to be reached, post-racial rhetoric will not work. what is needed is a pluralist model, which does not place the burden of re­sponsibility to actively create a unified community solely on the shoulders of the historically marginalized and regularly silenced. This model needs to address the causes of structural inequality of opportu­nity rather than to silence all efforts. This model is not one where racial differences do not matter, but where racial differences are not subjugated to one another. such a model encourages conversation and coalition building, and states that racial distinctions, as components of self-identity, actually provide a participatory outlet for incorporation in a broader society. if we want unity, in american society or at notre dame, the process by which we achieve it must not be community-critical, but community-based. 
Alex Coccia is a junior Africana and Peace Studies major, and a Gender Studies minor. He appreciates classroom conversations in Black Politics in Multiracial America. He can be reached at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“it takes two to speak truth, one to speak and another to hear.” 
Henry David Thoreau American author and philosopher 

who is your favorite football player? 
Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll by 5 p.m. on Thursday 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Speak up 
Mia Lillis 
raising voices 
Two weeks ago, a former student at amherst college published a detailed account of her sexual assault and the administration’s subsequent failure to address her needs. 
within 24 hours, the president of the college released a statement outlining immediate changes to the college’s sexual assault policy. 
This sequence of events reveals the palpable power of speech, a founding ideal of our nation. The american civil war was fought in part to se­cure the freedom of speech in the political arena. Today, american citizens can voice political dis­sent, thanks to freedom of speech. citizens residing in censorship-prone nations fight tooth and nail to secure the freedom of speech, to give voice to the truth. even the ancient greeks wrote tomes dedicated to the power of orators. 
one would think, since we live in a country where even the ku klux klan is given the freedom to voice their hateful ideology, we would take advantage of this precious right. but more often than not, we remain silent. 
we offer many excuses for such silence. sometime people choose 
Leila Green 
off the wall 
The vast differences between each presidential candidate’s life jour­ney strongly influences the ways in which they decide to lead and steer our country. The manner in which president obama or mitt romney will run this country is highly de­pendent upon various factors, one of the most important being each man’s moral compass. 
president obama, with roots in community organizing and law, grew up in hawaii and indonesia in a middle-class family as a minority. meanwhile, romney is privileged and was raised in an affluent family and had a career in business before becoming governor of massachusetts in 2003. 
consequently, president obama and mitt romney hold vastly differ­ent worldviews — worldviews that strongly impact the way that they view the citizens of this country and the world. similarly, each man’s posi­tion in society influenced his respec­tive moral code. 
being a part of the privileged, up­per class has undoubtedly impacted romney’s bid for presidency, as the average american does not earn ap­proximately $250 million. his mas­sive wealth disconnects him from the reality of american citizens in the poor and middle class. his crafted tales of alleged struggle are silence to remain “polite.” other times people choose silence because they believe their opinion to be a mi­nority one, and fear social reprimand or isolation. and who can blame them, for in a majority-rules society, a minority voice doesn’t even matter, right? 
wrong. The amount of academia refuting this deterministic “majori­ty-rules” mindset is overwhelming. on one level, society is largely famil­iar with the all-too-common phe­nomenon of the vocal minority and silent majority — the phenomenon that inspired the progressive student association’s 4 to 5 movement. but on an even deeper level, society must become aware of the mutability of opinion when faced with so much as a single dissenting voice. social psy­chologist serge moscovici dedicated his life to studying the power of the minority voice. 
moscovici executed a revolutionary and often-replicated psychological experiment in which a substantial portion of a group of people chose obviously wrong answers to ques­tions, simply because a clandestine confederate within the group spoke up in defense of the wrong answers. his findings indicated that having one single voice of dissent in a group of people can substantially change the viewpoints of other people within the group. if the minority voice can be that powerful when wrong, imagine how much more power it carries when right. 
despite this reassurance, some individuals may still choose to re­main “politely” silent. They claim that it is better to “let it go” than to create conflict. but even this excuse is questionable. our very own kelsey manning recently wrote an article for nextgen Journal discussing the damaging effect of derogatory lan­guage, especially in reference to the pervasive use of phrases such as “that’s so gay,” or “that’s so retarded” on our own campus. 
frequently, those who would ex­perience the damaging effects of derogatory language, such as the young woman from amherst, are not in a psychologically stable enough position to feel comfortable speaking out, and as a result such victims rely on allies. 
but all too often, we remain silent when our peers use derogatory or damaging language, or make jokes we find distasteful. certainly, our peers have the freedom to say what­soever they choose, but we, too, have the freedom to speak up when we are insulted. 
To speak up in response to insult­ing language is to create inception, to plant the idea that perhaps we 
The morality of mitt 
key indicators of his blindness to the often-grim realities of those that are not prosperous. 
romney maintains a sincere be­lief in an american dream that is not completely attainable by all americans. we are not all born on equal socioeconomic footing from which to pursue this “dream” and he ignores this. 
mitt romney’s potential policies and current ideology on issues like women’s rights, education, immi­gration and the economy indicate a lack of compassion and disregard for struggling americans. This is an ethical failure. he lacks the morals that the leader of a diverse, complex country must have. The president is not the pope, but he does need the character and ethics to view our country through a lens of compas­sion and recognize the marginalized and disadvantaged. 
his campaign champions creating jobs for americans and supporting small businesses. given his inconsis­tencies and flip-flopping on essential issues like equal pay for women, con­traception rights and education, can we really believe this? when viewed through a moral lens, romney’s con­tinuous dishonesty and lack of true conviction points to a lack of rooted principles and moral consciousness. before romney lessens our country’s deficit, he must relieve his own moral deficiency. 
we cannot fault mitt romney for being born into a wealthy family and we cannot fault his business savvy. being rich does not automatically diagnose you as morally bankrupt, the same way that being poor does not inevitably indicate laziness. however, we can fault mitt romney for his lack of compassion for less-fortunate individuals. need i men­tion the 47 percent? 
mitt romney and paul ryan’s disregard for the poor, education, women, immigrants and global citizenship is a moral issue. unless you are a wealthy, white male, mitt romney does not hold your interests at stake. if mitt romney is elected, he will have to learn the hard way that what worked for him and people like him does not work for all americans. he must value the interests of all americans, regardless of race, socio­economic status, creed, sexuality or legal status. 
furthermore, u.s. catholic bishops and catholic nuns have sharply re­buked paul ryan’s proposed house republican budget that includes cuts to hunger and nutrition programs that aid poor and working-class americans. The bishops called these proposed cuts “unacceptable,” “un­justified” and “wrong.” The catholic sisters participating on a tour to pro­test ryan’s budget, nuns on the bus, say on their website: 
“we cannot stand by silently when the u.s. congress considers further enriching the wealthiest americans at the expense of struggling, impov­erished families.” 

ought to be mindful of language. and if you fear you may lose a friend by speaking up and, for example, expressing your distaste at their use of the word “retarded,” you must ask yourself if a friend who values his “freedom without criticism” (not a real freedom) to use a frankly un­creative slur over your friendship, is worth keeping as a friend. 
freedom of speech is internation­ally recognized as a basic human right. it may be the case that you completely disagree with the views i have presented in this column concerning the damaging effect of derogatory language, and if so, i en­courage you to speak up. we as indi­viduals learn and grow when faced with new perspectives. alternatively, some of you may simply wish to use your freedom of speech to insult, and as voltaire said, “i disapprove of what you say, but i will defend to the death your right to say it.” but i, too, will not hesitate to use my freedom of speech to tell you exactly how i feel. 
Mia Lillis is a junior political science and philosophy major who is also pursuing a business-economics minor. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
while mitt romney and paul ryan have found relative success in other arenas, they are not qualified to lead this country because they are unsympathetic toward the struggle of real americans. obama is by no means perfect. however, his accurate understanding of the poor and mar­ginalized and of minorities is what makes him a qualified leader for our complex country and is due to his character, experiences and upbring­ing in the middle class. 
neither the trickle-down eco­nomic approach nor the trickle-down presidential approach will work. we do not need a president who is too disconnected, too privileged and too untethered from the american reality to adequately lead our coun­try. president obama insists helping the poor and supporting the middle class is going to move our country forward. he is right. as mahatma gandhi said: 
“man becomes great exactly in the degree in which he works for the welfare of his fellow men.” in order to win the election, mitt romney is going to have to work for all men — and all women. we need an approach that recognizes the dignity of all americans and all humans. we need barack obama for president. 
Leila Green can be reached at lgreen2@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


swift’s duets with ed sheeran (in “everything has changed”) swift’s earlier albums draw listeners in with her honest and 
By CARRIE TUREK 

scenewriter and gary lightbody (in “The last Time”) reflect her strength real lyrics, “ialmost do” has a simple and personal quality that 
as a versatile vocalist. “The last Time” showcases swift’s great captures listeners. 

i’ve heard it blasting through dorm rooms, talked about ability to balance her style and strength with another singer other songs reflect more ambiguous feelings about life between classmates and hummed by those walking behind especially well. and love, expressing twin feelings of risk and excitement reckers. it’s been discussed and glorified in facebook posts “red” feels simultaneously fresh and familiar. swift com-(“Treacherous”), and disillusionment with fame (“The lucky and “22” has been playing in the advertisements for the up-prises “red” of songs that sound classically “Taylor swift” with one”). coming country music association awards. i could only others that exhibit a new type of maturity. songs like “red” and Taylor swift’s “red,” like all of her previous albums, only gets be talking about one thing — Taylor swift’s “red” album. “stay, stay, stay” feel familiar — full of those spot-on, “i know better with time, as listeners discover new tracks and learn released oct. 22, Taylor swift’s “red” still controls the no. 1 that feeling” lyrics and a bit of a country feel. They call to mind more of her lyrics by heart. most of swift’s charm comes from spot on iTunes’ top album downloads and the deluxe edition swift favorites like “love story” and “our song.” at the same the honesty and feeling that she instills in her tracks, and her was sold out on Target.com as of oct. 28. it seems swift’s fourth time, these new songs and those like “knew you were Trouble” fourth album certainly possesses these qualities. i’m sure we studio album “red” could more aptly be titled “golden.” and “starlight” share a new type of enthusiasm and energy — will be hearing more and more humming and singing along to 
as someone who became hooked on swift’s relatable lyrics one that could definitely be colored red. this album in the near future. and down-to-earth country style as a young eighth-grader, Tracks like “knew you were Trouble” and “we are never, The deluxe album, which includes six bonus tracks (three and who has absorbed the tunes and lyrics of both “fearless” ever getting back Together” certainly have a radio-ready qual-studio tracks and three remixes) is available at Target and is and “speak now,” i was more than enthusiastic to see what ity, as they unquestionably get stuck in your head, but they certainly worth the buy. swift’s fourth album would bring. Though the subjects of her are by no means boring or run-of-the-mill. each of these two music have morphed from the abstract “cory” and “drew” tracks perfectly represents swift’s ability to appeal to a wide Contact Carrie Turek  at  cturek@nd.edu 
into more well-known interests over the years and through range of listeners without ever feeling stale. The catchy repeti­the albums, swift’s musical talent and poignant lyrics have re-tion characteristic of “knew you were Trouble” and “we are 
“Red” 
mained the same. “red” is marked by the same versatility and never, ever getting back Together” is echoed in “girl at home,” 
Taylor Swift 
fluidity that has made swift’s previous albums and songs such a track worth the listen and one that showcases the flexibility a success in transcending the boundaries between the coun-and range of swift’s voice. 

Label: Big Machine Records 
try and pop genres. looking at the “bluer” tracks on the album like “sad, Tragic, 

Tracks: “Knew You Were Trouble,” “I Almost Do,” 
swift’s album runs the gamut of emotions, cycling through beautiful,” “The moment i knew” and “i almost do,” swift’s 

“Moment I Knew,” “The Lucky One” 
the colors and feelings she references in the title track “red.” as strength at transferring deep emotions into song comes the liner notes suggest, swift shares with her listeners the feel-through. “The moment i knew” (from the deluxe album) is 

If you like: Demi Lovato, Carrie Underwood, Miley Cyrus 
and Lady Antebellum 
ings she has recently experienced and grown to understand in a deep, poignant track that reflects swift’s country roots and her relationships. Though all of swift’s albums focus on rela-has a ballad-like quality similar to that of “last kiss” and “dear tionships and life experiences, this album feels notably more John” from swift’s “speak now” album. like many of swift’s mature. in addition to the obvious nod to growing up in “22,” sadder tracks, “i almost do” has an unavoidable draw. Just as 



By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 
with the election only a week away, it’s every american’s duty to be as informed a voter as possible, and there’s no better way to do this than by watch­ing some great movies that deal with the wild wicked world of politics. here are some of scene’s favorite po­litical films: 
“JFK” (1991) 
director: oliver stone 
starring: kevin costner, kevin bacon, Tommy lee Jones 
writer/director oliver stone’s first — and certainly most controversial — in a trilogy of films focusing on american presidents presents what stone calls a “counter-myth” as to how president John f. kennedy was really assassinated. 
kevin costner stars as new orleans district attorney Jim garrison, who becomes obsessed with the assas­sination and continually pursues conspiracy theories in efforts to uncover the truth. 
The film came under fire for questionable his­torical accuracy, but is still an impressive cinematic experience. 
“All the President’s Men” (1976) 
director: alan J. pakula 
starring: robert redford, dustin hoffman 
based on journalists bob woodward and carl bernstein’s book detailing their investigation of president richard nixon and the ensuing scandal, this political caper is one of the greatest movies of all time. 
robert redford stars as woodward and dustin hoffman as bernstein as they track clues following the break-in at the democratic national committee head­quarters at the watergate complex, and is an exciting thriller from start to finish. 
“Mr. Smith Goes to Washington” (1939) 
director: frank capra 
starring: Jimmy stewart, Jean arthur 
perhaps underappreciated over the years because it came out in the same year as film giants “gone with the wind” and “The wizard of oz,” “mr. smith goes to washington” remains one of the greatest political films and inspirations to the american spirit of all time. 
Jimmy stewart stars as a country bumpkin who is picked to replace a deceased u.s. senator. unbeknownst to him, he is picked by a powerful po­litical machine that expects him to do as he’s told. but come on, this is Jimmy stewart. when pressured to sign off on a graft scheme, stewart holds an hours-long filibuster to block the bill in one of the most iconic scenes in american film history. 
“Wag the Dog” (1997) 
director: barry levinson 
starring: dustin hoffman, robert de niro 
This black political comedy, which was ironically re­leased just before the bill clinton sex scandal, focuses on spin-master conrad brean, played by robert de niro. brean is brought in to work with the white house after the sitting president who, in the middle of a re­election campaign, is accused of inappropriate behav­ior with a fictional equivalent of a girl scout. 

brean orchestrates a fake war in albania with the help of eccentric hollywood producer stanley motss (dustin hoffman), not unlike the recent film “argo.” but in this case, they fake a war to cover up a sex scandal. 
“Dave” (1993) 

director: ivan reitman 
starring: kevin kline, sigourney weaver 
kevin kline plays dave, a part-time president-impersonator, in this political comedy. dave is un­knowingly brought in to impersonate the president by a secret service agent in order to cover up the president’s extramarital affair with a staffer. The president suffers a stroke, and the white house chief of staff insists that dave act as president until further notice. 
“Black Sheep” (1996) 
director: penelope sheeris 
starring: chris farley, david spade 
okay, so this might be technically the “worst” movie on the list, but that doesn’t mean it isn’t hilarious. chris farley stars as mike donnelly, who is determined to aid in his brother al’s campaign for the governorship of washington. 
after farley proves an embarrassing brother and a political liability (surprising twist, right?) his brother sends him to the middle of nowhere with a campaign aide played by david spade. a whole slew of hilarity ensues, including a number of run-ins with a deranged war veteran played by gary busey. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
LAURA LAWS | The Observer 
The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


accident at the end of season Three, the in 2006 and “Jumper” in 2009. she 

By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
show was never the same. 

is currently playing dr. Zoe hart on barton’s successful career was nev­
scene writer 

The cw’s “hart of dixie” series. Turn on the television, read the news or log in to er the same either. after she left “The facebook and everyone is currently talking about hurri-o.c.” cast, she starred in some minor 
Adam Brody 
cane sandy hitting the northeast. i have a lot of hometown films, such as ”st. Trinian’s,” “closing 

seth cohen was my favorite “o.c.” friends who go 
the ring” and “assassination of a high 

character, and it was all due to my to school in the 
school president.” 

never-ending crush with the actor area, so i decided 
in 2009, she returned to television in 

who played him, adam brody. to call them and 
ashton kutcher’s “The beautiful life: 

after the show got cancelled, he see how they 
Tbl,” but the show did not last long. 

appeared in several popular films, were. 
mischa barton is currently performing 

including ”mr. & mrs. smith,” “in as i caught up 
in the irish stage production of “steel 

the land of women,” “Jennifer’s with my friends, 
magnolias.” 

body,” “cop out” and “scream 4.” we began talking about odd hurri-
Benjamin McKenzie Peter Gallagher 

cane names, and 

actor benjamin mckenzie played last but not least, what is sandy sandy is defi­
marissa’s on-again off-again love in-cohen up to these days? nitely one to add terest, ryan atwood. his character in the show won the before and after playing a cool california dad and well-on the list. why hearts of many young female viewers. however, his most known public defender in “The o.c.,” peter gallagher ap­would such a violent and devastating natural disaster be recent and successful film projects have expanded his au-peared in various hollywood films, such as “mr. deeds,” named after seth cohen’s cool and laid-back father? dience and fan base. 
“center stage,” all throughout high school, my closest friends and after the fourth and last season of “The o.c.” mckenzie 
“burlesque ” i would meet once a week to watch the latest episode of played lapd officer ben sherman in nbc’s drama series 
and “step up fox’s most popular Tv series at the time, “The o.c.” we “southland.” in 2008, he got his first starring role in fea­
r e v ol ut i on ,” wanted to dress like marissa, be summer’s best friends, ture indie film, “Johnny’s got a gun,” and earned great 
among oth­play videogames with seth, fall in 
reviews. 

ers. he cur-love with ryan and live in a beauti­
rently plays cia ful mansion next to the ocean with 
Rachel Bilson 

clandestine sandy and kirsten. 
who didn’t like summer 

services so after four seasons of great 
robert’s bubbly personality and 

director arthur “o.c.” gossip, where are these actors 
relationship with seth in “The 

campbell in now? 
o.c.”? 

usa’s “covert actress rachel bilson became 
a f f a i r s .” 
Mischa Barton 
well known in hollywood by 

looking at starring as marissa cooper in 
playing summer in the show, the entirety of “The o.c.” was mischa barton’s 
and now she continues to be in-“The o.c.” cast, claim to fame. she quickly became 
fluential in the film and fashion gallagher is the most successful in the film and television a hollywood “it girl” and a fashion 
world. industry today. icon. everyone loved marissa, and 
after “The o.c” ended, bilson after she tragically died in a car 

starred in films “The last kiss” Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 







and black peppered chicken. my only complaint was that the 
By ANKUR CHAWLA 

chicken was a bit dry and the burrito could have used some type 
of hot sauce throughout, though the manager assured me that 
This year the university granted students’ wishes and opened the california burrito had just that. The side of chips and salsa one of the biggest cash cows on campus when they changed were as fresh as one would get at a proper sit-down restaurant: sbarro to a Taco bell/pizza hut express. i was one of the big-the chips still warm and crisp from the fryer. The salsa was mild gest supporters of this change and still am a frequent visitor in and thin for my taste, but certainly more authentic than the old the basement of lafun. however, like many of you, i quickly el paso in my fridge. lose interest in the food options that are readily available for the burrito chulo is a solid option that should be added to your monopoly money loaded on to my student id card. chipotle is rotation of Taco bell and chipotle for a quick mexican fix. it’s generally a suitable substitute, but its closing at 10 p.m. on the open late, delivers and offers a lot of fresh, authentic food for a weekends still left Taco bell the only late night option if you’re relatively cheap price. and how can you say no to a place called craving a burrito. or so i thought. burrito chulo? 
enter burrito chulo. The re-branded store, formerly Julio’s, provides a much-needed option outside of the on-campus and Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 
scene writer 
eddy street burrito stops. while it is a bit of a hike for those of you in the dorms (it’s located on ironwood next to nick’s patio), it’s open until 4 a.m. friday and saturday — and deliver within the area. i repeat: they are a mexican semi fast-food place that 
Burrito Chulo 
delivers until 4 a.m. on the weekends. 
convenience and store hours aren’t the only draw for burrito chulo. The combo menu offers a dozen options for entrées each 

Location: 1724 N Ironwood Dr., South Bend, IN 
coming with either rice and beans or chips and salsa, and a 

Phone number: (574) 885-4078 
large fountain drink, all for $5.99. That’s less than you’d pay for a single burrito at chipotle. a la carte items are also available 

Hours: Sunday to Thursday from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m., 
with everything ranging from three to seven dollars. in addition 

Fridays and Saturdays from 11 a.m. to 4 a.m. 
to being relatively inexpensive, the quantity of food is quite fill­ing though admittedly no chipotle-sized burrito. 
in terms of taste and food quality, burrito chulo is as authen­tic as it gets for take-out or delivery. The burrito i got came filled with delicious refried beans, cilantro and lime glazed lettuce 

LAURA LAWS | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Giants prove to be the best team 

Sam Gans 
sports writer 
all year long, in both the regular season and national league postseason, the san francisco giants had to come from behind, leaving speculation from april to october about just how far the team would go. 
so, of course, the world series they won sunday night was the exact opposite of their style all season. 
The giants dominated the detroit Tigers, sweeping the fall classic and leaving no doubt about who was the best team in baseball. 
as easy as they made it look in the final four games, they made things very dif­ficult on themselves before the world series. The giants started the year on a three-game losing streak and were trailing their bitter rivals, the red-hot los angeles dodgers, by 7.5 games in the national league west on may 27. despite catching the dodgers on June 27, the two teams alternated places at the top of the division — los angeles held sole posses­sion of the nl west lead as small-ball were each uti­lized effectively. 
what makes the result even more impressive is they did it without some marquee players. melky cabrera, the all-star game mvp, was left off the playoff roster fol­lowing a 50-game suspen­sion for testing positive for high levels of testosterone. young studs pablo “kung fu panda” sandoval and buster posey filled the void. all-star closer brian wilson and his renowned beard missed nearly the whole season due to Tommy John surgery. sergio romo performed marvelously in his absence. 
in addition, Tim lincecum and midseason acquisition hunter pence, both stars, struggled at times, yet found ways to contribute. pence batted a miserable .210 in the postseason, but played a key role in san francisco’s 2-0 win in game 2 with a run and rbi. 
meanwhile, lincecum, a two-time cy young award winner, had a terrible 2012 season and was demoted from the starting rotation to the bullpen for the play­offs. yet he accepted his role and pitched quality innings 
When the posteason finally arrived, it appeared a rough start would finally cost the Giants after they fell behind Cincinnati two games to none in the best­of-five NLDS. Yet San Francisco managed to win three in a row — all on the road — 
to advance.  
late as aug. 19 — until san  in middle relief to help his  
francisco pulled away with  team.  
a strong september.  and speaking of cy young  
when the postseason fi­ award winners, how about  
nally arrived, it appeared  the resurgence of barry  
a rough start would finally  Zito? The 2002 al cy young  
cost the giants after they  winner struggled with an  
fell behind cincinnati  injury and career-high era  
two games to none in the  in 2011 and had an average  
best-of-five nlds. yet san  2012 regular season. but in  
francisco managed to win  his three starts this post- 
three in a row — all on the  season, he pitched a total of  
road — to advance.  16 innings with only three  
and in the nlcs, again  earned runs allowed. san  
needing three wins in a  francisco won all three  
row to move on after trail- games he pitched.  
ing three games to one, the  The giants did it their  
giants did to the cardinals  way. They may not have had  
what st. louis notoriously  the offense of the rangers,  
did in 2011 to win the world  the pitching of the reds or  
series: rally despite long  the hype of the yankees,  
odds.  but they had the best all­ 
san francisco showed by  around team. and as a re- 
that point it had the men­ sult, they’ve now won their  
tal fortitude to win with its  second world series in three  
back against the wall. but  seasons. 
was it a fluke?  
The giants’ play in the       Contact Sam Gans at  
world series answered that  sgans1@nd.edu 
question clearly.       The views expressed in this  
They won through all  Sports Authority are those of the  
facets of the game. strong  author and not necessarily those  
pitching, power hitting and  of The Observer.  

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Lattimore will return as a Gamecock 
Associated Press 
columbia, s.c. — south carolina coach steve spurrier led the cheers of more than 1,000 people who turned out monday to wish injured star marcus lattimore a quick recovery and a happy 21st birthday. 
“This is not a memorial ser­vice,” spurrier said. “This is a happy birthday to marcus and an appreciation for everything he’s done and is going to contin­ue to do for south carolina.” 
and then spurrier gave out a gift of hope to worried gamecock fans. 
“The message he gave me was, ‘i’ll be back,’” spurrier said. “so he’s coming back.” 
That was the last thing on anyone’s mind after watching lattimore’s devastating injury. his right knee was dislocated and sustained significant liga­ment damage requiring surgery and maybe needing more than a year of rehabilitation. lattimore was released from the hospital sunday night. 
playing again, though, wasn’t what monday’s gather­ing was about. fans filled the area in front of the mckissick museum on the school’s his­toric horseshoe, many wearing lattimore’s no. 21. They signed large cards of support, brought birthday balloons and sang “happy birthday” to their be­loved star. 
“i told somebody, he might be the most popular gamecock player ever,” spurrier said. 
The respect for lattimore was evident on the field saturday when Tennessee’s players came over to show support as he was carted off the field. 

WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-appt earnparttime.com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confi­dential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more infor­mation, visit ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Mr. Jones” by Counting Crows 
I was down at the New Amsterdam staring at this yellow-haired girl Mr. Jones strikes up a conversa­tion with this black-haired flamenco dancer She dances while his father plays guitar She’s suddenly beautiful We all want something beautiful I wish I was beautiful So come dance this silence down through the morning Cut up, Maria! Show me some of them Spanish dances Pass me a bottle, Mr. Jones Believe in me Help me believe in anything I want to be someone who believes Mr. Jones and me tell each other fairy tales Stare at the beautiful women “She’s looking at you. Ah, no, no, 


georgia coach mark richt said he and bulldogs prayed for lattimore’s recovery after their session sunday. rival clemson coach dabo swinney, who heav­ily recruited the lattimore before he chose the gamecocks, said the player was everything that’s right about college football. 
“regardless of what happens, he’s been a great representative of the game of football and a great representative for his uni­versity,” swinney said. 
lattimore has gotten messag­es of support on Twitter from a “who’s who” of sports stars and other celebrities like miami heat star lebron James, new york Jets quarterback Tim Tebow and hootie and the blowfish singer darius rucker. 
“i’ve never met anyone who says they dislike marcus lattimore,” gamecocks quar­terback dylan Thompson, who’s known the running back since childhood. 
on monday, the tributes continued. gov. nikki haley — an unabashed clemson fan — declared it “marcus lattimore day” in the state. 
u.s. sen. lindsey graham, a republican, brought a bi­partisan letter from the state congressional delegation about the wonderful influ­ence lattimore’s had on south carolina. 
university president harris pastides shared words of good wishes from vice president Joe biden, whose personal aide is former south carolina player fran person. 
lattimore was watching the ceremony on the internet, pastides said. 
seth rose, a former south carolina tennis player, brought his 16-month-old son cole dressed in a lattimore jersey. rose recalled this summer run­ning into lattimore near the school’s athletic complex and the star athlete graciously posed for a photo with the toddler. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
she’s looking at me.” Smiling in the bright lights Coming through in stereo When everybody loves you, you can never be lonely I will paint my picture Paint myself in blue and red and black and gray All of the beautiful colors are very very meaningful Gray is my favorite color I felt so symbolic yesterday If I knew Picasso I would buy myself a gray guitar and play Mr. Jones and me look into the future Stare at the beautiful women “She’s looking at you. I don’t think so. She’s looking at me.” Standing in the spotlight I bought myself a gray guitar When everybody loves me, I will never be lonely I want to be a lion Everybody wants to pass as cats 



SMC CROSS COUNTRY | miaa championships 
Squad boasts personal bests 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
despite season-best ef­forts from several team members, saint mary’s fell just short of a top-five con­ference finish, as the belles took the sixth spot at the miaa championships in albion, mich., on saturday. 
Junior Jessica biek re­corded her best time of the season, completing the six-kilometer (6k) course in 23:06 to grab the top spot for the belles and fin­ish 22nd overall. senior emma baker finished sec­ond for saint mary’s and 
“Thankfully, we have about two weeks to prepare for the regional meet ... We’ll look to improve on our times from championships at the regional.” 
Jackie Bauters 
Belles coach 
43rd overall with a time of 
23:59. behind them, fresh­man allie danhof recorded the best 6k time of her sea­son to finish 53rd and ju­nior colette curtis posted the first sub-25 minute 6k of her career to finish in 56th place. 
saint mary’s coach Jackie bauters said she was im­pressed with her team’s efforts. 
“i do believe it was the best race of the season,” bauters said. “The team really prepared for it both physically and mentally. i was really excited to see their hard work pay off.” 
bauters said she was particularly proud with the results of some of the younger members on her veteran-laden team, which includes six seniors. 
“it was great to see my non-seniors have stellar days,” she said. “colette curtis had the breakout race we’ve been looking for all season, and she fi­nally finished where she is capable of running. allie danhof and [freshman] katelyn dunn put together great races, and we will be looking for more from them next fall.” 
The belles recorded a team score of 165 to finish sixth in the field of nine teams. in doing so, saint mary’s matched its fin­ish at last month’s miaa Jamboree and finished sixth overall in the confer­ence standings, which are based one-thirds on the Jamboree and two-thirds on the championship meet. 
calvin took home the conference crown after winning the champion­ship meet with an overall score of 26. calvin junior nicole michmerhuizen was named the miaa most valuable runner. 
saint mary’s will now turn its attention to the ncaa regionals, which will be held on nov. 10. 
bauters said the team plans to use the extended break to build on its over­all times. 
“Thankfully, we have about two weeks to pre­pare for the regional meet,” bauters said. “we’ll look to improve on our times from champion­ships at the regional.” 
The belles will compete in the ncaa regional meet in Terre haute, ind., on saturday, nov. 10. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL | calvin 3, smc 0; hope 3, smc 0; smc 3, wheaTon 0 
Weekend closes season 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
for the belles, an up-and­down season finale weekend started with a tough loss to no. 2 calvin on friday, as the team lost 25-10, 25-20, 25-16. 
“we dug ourselves into a hole early. it’s very difficult to come out of a hole playing a tough team like calvin,” belles coach Toni kuschel said. “The pass­ing just wasn’t there. we went into the second set fired up and were able to play a lot more com­petitively against a very talented team.” 
against calvin (26-2, 15-0 miaa), sophomore outside hitter kati schneider led saint mary’s (14-14, 7-9). schneider finished the match with 12 kills, while hitting at an impressive 42 per­cent. defensively, freshman out­side hitter kati hecklinski led the team with nine digs. 
on saturday the belles saw more success against no. 4 hope (27-3, 14-2) but still fell to anoth­er miaa rival. after winning the first set, saint mary’s lost three consecutive sets to fall 23-25, 32-30, 25-22, 25-17 to the flying dutch. 
“it was very exciting. we played great volleyball and our team hit very well against a phenomenal team,” kuschel said. “we passed extremely well. it was a great match.” 
against hope, schneider once again led the belles. schneider led all players in the match with 18 kills, while also provid­ing strong defensive help with 14 digs. sophomore defensive specialist meredith mersits led the belles defense with 15 total digs. senior setter danie brink and sophomore middle hitter melanie kuczek performed well also, as brink provided 39 assists while kuczek had 15 kills at 44 percent. 
following the match against hope, saint mary’s wrapped up its season with a win against wheaton (11-22, 2-5 cciw). in their second match on the day, the belles swept their out of con­ference opponent, winning in three sets 25-23, 25-23, 25-21. 
“it was an all-around fantas­tic team performance,” kuschel said. “it was a great way to end the season. our goal was to have a 14-plus win season and we did that.” 
against wheaton, kuczek again shined, as she led the belles with 18 kills at 43 percent, bringing her kill total on the day to 33. 
“melanie has been so efficient. she has just taken her game to another level,” kuschel said. “she is just a special player and we’re so blessed to have her on our team.” 
defensively, mersits led saint mary’s with a match-high 17 digs. brink chipped in as well, providing a team-high 40 assists in her final game for saint mary’s. brink will leave the belles sitting at second all-time in program history with 3,170 career assists. 
for the belles, the individu­al standout performances did not go unnoticed. brink and schneider were both named miaa specialty player and position player of the week respectively. on the week, schneider had 58 kills, 50 digs and six service aces. brink’s 79 assists on saturday pushed her weekly total to an impressive 137, or 10.4 per set. This was the first time since 2008 that the belles swept both awards. 
overall, the belles finished the season fifth in the miaa, as the team holds the head-to-head tie­breaker over adrian. as a result, saint mary’s will not be continu­ing on to the miaa tournament, which only the top four teams in the conference compete in. 
“we had a great season over­all,” kuschel said. “we just had one really tough week of volley­ball where we did not come up with a win like we would have liked to, which prevented us from making the top four. it’s tough to not make that top four slot.” 
still, things are on the rise for the belles, kuschel said. The team will graduate brink, but bring back all their remaining players. outside of brink, every player on saint mary’s is either a freshman or a sophomore. 
“we are such a young team though and are so excited to have so much potential to build on,” kuschel said. “we think of the season as a success. we have improved in every area possible.” 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
Speed 
conTinued from page 20 
gameplan, just go out there and crash the defensive boards, play hard and execute on offense.” 
The 6-foot-10 sherman, along with cooley, anchored the irish frontcourt, finishing with eight rebounds and 12 points on a per­fect 5-for-5 shooting night from the field. 
The highlight clip of the night came on an alley-oop from atkins to grant with 15:13 left in the sec­ond half. coming out of a time­out, grant stole the ball on the right wing and dished to atkins, who gave his roommate a perfect lob pass. grant finished the dunk and drew a foul to put the irish up 68-28. 
“That’s just our team,” grant said. “give it up and give it right back.” 
The irish went on a 19-2 run to start the game despite shooting 27.3 percent in the first half. notre dame finished the night shooting 
62.3 percent from the field. 
“Those starting five have really played a lot of basketball together and they know each other,” brey said. “They do a really good job of mentoring those [younger] guys […] That’s part of the culture we’ve created here that i’m really proud of.” 

notre dame will wrap up the exhibition season against cardinal stritch on friday at 9 
p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Badin 
conTinued from page 16 
“i am very proud of all of our girls and couldn’t be coaching a better team,” he said. 
king said the bullfrogs would work hard in striving toward the championship, even if it means a complete change in their offensive philosophy. 
“we plan to completely revamp our offense to an oregon spread offense.” king said. “we’ll be looking like the female version of the ducks in the playoffs.” 
no. 3 cavanaugh will face no. 6 pangborn, while no. 7 badin will square off against no. 2 mcglinn in the first round of the playoffs next sunday. 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla West 27, Lyons 0 
By D.H. Kim 
sports writer  
behind a dominant offense and defensive line, pasquerilla west kept its undefeated re­cord intact sunday, as it shut out lyons 27-0. 
The purple weasels (6-0) were led by senior defensive tackle meghan schmitt, who had two sacks and an intercep­tion. senior receiver kirsten danna and senior receiver alice yerokun each caught two touchdowns from sophomore quarterback lauren vidal to power the purple weasels’ of­fense. danna recovered from a shaky start in which she failed to catch three consecu­tive passes. 
“we were great overall and the only thing we could work on is catching the ball,” pasquerilla west junior coach Jake wrigley said. “but danna is a great receiver and will come back.” 
vidal supplemented her strong arm with some strong rushes, as she ran for a total of 60 yards in the second half to move the purple weasels down the field. 
“our offense was great to­day, and we came out strong like any other game,” vidal said. “we are going to con­tinue that going into the playoffs.” 
The lyonites (1-5), who have several freshmen on their ros­ter, will look to apply their ex­periences from this season to next year. freshmen maddie hahn and alexa lodenquai played important roles for the lyonites on sunday, as they helped lyons’s defense to con­tain pasquerilla west’s run­ning game. 
The lyonites struggled with pulling flags and finding pass routes, which allowed the purple weasels to spread their offense. 
despite the loss in her fi­nal game, senior quarterback erica miller said she would cherish the memories from this season. 
“it was a different year from last year and all of them have been so memorable and spe­cial for me,” miller said. “we are younger, and i am sure the many young players next year will mature and develop lyons football.” 
although the season is over for lyons, no. 1 pasquerilla west will look to remain un­defeated when it meets no. 8 ryan in the first round of the playoffs next sunday. 
Contact D.H. Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 
McGlinn 19, Farley 0 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
sports writer 
playoff-bound mcglinn rode a strong passing game and stout defensive line to earn a 19-0 victory over farley on sunday. 
mcglinn (5-1) came out strong in the first half with a touchdown catch by sopho­more receiver emma collis. senior quarterback and cap­tain emily golden found collis again later in the half to put the shamrocks up 12-0. 
midway through the second half, mcglinn secured its lead with a pass from golden to se­nior receiver katie ritter for a touchdown. golden was 4-for­7 passing in the second half. 
“passing was working really well,” golden said. “my re­ceivers were catching and ev­eryone was gelling and it was awesome.” 
The shamrocks clinched a playoff berth after their last matchup against welsh family, which mcglinn won 14-6. golden said that her team is hoping for a high seed but will remain focused on playing well. 
“we’re just going to do our normal thing,” golden said. “it’s been working for us so far, so we’re going to keep it up and try to get a little more focus.” 
The finest (0-5) struggled to make offensive progress. Junior quarterback lauren ladowski was intercepted in the first half by mcglinn se­nior cornerback caitlin day. 
ladowski went 2-for-8 pass­ing in the second half, but the game ended by mercy rule af­ter an interception by mcglinn sophomore linebacker laura Thomas stopped farley’s last offensive drive late in the sec­ond half. 
“we just couldn’t put any­thing together today really,” ladowski said. “Their defense was really good.” 
although farley did not qualify for the postseason, no. 2 mcglinn will look to take the next step toward a second consecutive title when it meets no. 7 badin in the first round of the playoffs next sunday. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER | belles 3, Trine 0 

Belles gather record number of season wins 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
The belles made history with their 3-0 victory over Trine on saturday. The victory was their 12th win of the season — the most wins the program has ever had in a single campaign. 
senior captain maddie meckes gave the belles (12-5-2, 9-5-1 miaa) a head start with a long goal 30 minutes into regulation. not long after, sophomore midfielder hillary burton converted a pass from freshman midfielder maggie mclaughlin to give saint mary’s a 2-0 lead. Trine (1-15-3, 0-13-2 miaa) was unable to respond, getting only two shots on goal for the entirety of the match. 
freshman midfielder kathryn lueking drove the victory home in the last 15 minutes of the match with her first assist of the season, sending the ball to junior forward Jordan diffenderfer to bring the fi­nal score to 3-0. 
The game also marked soph­omore goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum’s seventh shutout of the year. 
meckes said as a whole the team was extremely unified during the game against Trine. 
“we really came together as a team and connected passes,” meckes said. “we played our game and eventually the goals started coming.” 
The 12-win season breaks the previously held record of 11 from 
“We have really turned the Saint Mary’s soccer program around and we are a top team in the conference.” 
Maddie Meckes 
senior captain 
2005, but the belles are looking to add at least one more win to their total. 
meckes said the success her team found this season has been incredible, but they are still striving for postseason opportunities. 
“we have really turned the saint mary’s soccer program around and we are a top team in the con­ference,” meckes said.  “we aren’t ready for the season to end and that’s why we will be playing our hearts out on wednesday.” 
wednesday marks the final game of the regular season for the belles when they take on kalamazoo at home. The game will determine saint mary’s standing in the con­ference. The belles currently sit in sixth place in the miaa, where only the top four teams advance to the conference tournament. kalamazoo, alma and hope all boast 9-4-2 miaa records, though, leaving the belles just one point out of a logjam for third place and the final two postseason berths. all four of those teams will be fighting for their lives on wednesday, mak­ing saint mary’s final regular sea­son game its most important of the year, as well. 
“in order to make the postsea­son, we need to win our game wednesday,” meckes said. “we would also need another confer­ence game to go our way and the best scenario is for calvin to beat adrian.” 
saint mary’s will look to extend their season on wednesday when they take on kalamazoo at home at 3 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 



MEN’S INTERHALL 

Last-minute players motivate Fisher victory 
Knott takes home win; Keenen, Keough tie; Morrissey, St. Edward’s, O’Neill forfeit 


“we ended the year on a with just under two min-brighter spot than most of the utes to play, keough (3-0-1) year went,” krakowiak said. was finally able to get on the 
knott, meanwhile, has its board when junior quarterback sights set on the work still to be michael fischer ran a quarter-done if it hopes to garner the ul-back keeper in from five yards timate prize. out. 
“we have a big week ahead of The touchdown came after a us in getting ready for playoffs defensive pass interference call and a lot of hard work to do,” against the knights on fourth hodgens said. “we’re excited.” down sustained the drive. 
duncan is finished for the The score was tied at six but season while knott will square the extra point attempt was off with keenan on sunday in pushed wide right after a low the first round of the playoffs. snap. 
keenan regained posses-Contact Alex Stembaugh at sion with just under two min­astembau@nd.edu utes to go and moved the ball into keough territory. but Keenan 6, Keough 6 mcdonough was sacked on sec­ond down and the game ended 
By RICH HIDY 
in a tie. mcdonough said while the 

Two of the top interhall teams outcome wasn’t ideal, the played up to their level of com-knights knew they faced a petition sunday as keenan and tough opponent. keough tied 6-6. “keough is a good football 
both teams put everything on team and we knew it would the line as the no. 1 seed in the be a physical matchup,” playoffs was up for grabs along mcdonough said. “we drove with divisional bragging rights. the ball after missing four start-Fisher 27, Carroll 6 both sides of the ball played its share of the divisional title keough, however,after the ers so we just have to work on well for the green wave, as the with a gritty 13-7 victory over game couldn’t resolve the the little things. we definitely 
sports writer 
By ALEX WILCOX 

sports writer defense allowed just 73 total duncan on sunday. deadlock, keough won the tie-didn’t take a step backwards, yards and forced three fumbles, “This was a great way to cap breaker and the division title. and this week of practice will 
Just minutes before kickoff two of which were caused and off the season with a solid win kangaroos sophomore captain make sure we take the next step against carroll on sunday, it recovered by sophomore defen-today in a hard fought game,” charlie magiera said he was forward.” appeared fisher would have to sive linemen John warner. knott junior defensive end satisfied with the performance keenan will face knott on forfeit for not having enough “The defense came up big James hodgens said. against a strong opponent. sunday in the opening round players. at the very last min-today,” sarkis said. “we’ve got The Juggerknotts (3-1) “we expected the looks we while keough will battle ute, though, two more players mounted a ground attack that got from keenan,” magiera alumni. showed up and the green wave 
the highlanders had difficulty said. “we were able to figure (3-1) never looked back, domi­

“We’re feeling containing. knott senior run-out some minor details with Contact Rich Hidy at nating the vermin 27-6. 
ning back Joey beglane led the the back end of our defense at rhidy@nd.edu 
strong. ... We’re 
with the win over its division 
way with over 75 rushing yards. the end to hang on to the tie, so 
going into the 
rival, fisher finished the sea­

knott opened the game with we like where we are right now.” Forfeits son in second place in its divi­
playoffs on a high a physical 65-yard drive capped it was keenan (3-0-1), 
Observer Staff Report 
sion and, more importantly, 
note. It’s always off by a 20-yard touchdown though, that struck first when clinched a playoff berth. 

pass from sophomore quarter-senior quarterback andrew morrissey (1-3) forfeited its 
good when you get 
“we’re feeling strong,” se­

back david Taiclet to freshman mcdonough found junior re-game against alumni (3-1) be-
the offense going.” 
nior captain chris sarkis said. 

receiver griffin carroll to get ceiver Jeremy riche on a deep cause it did not have enough “we’re going into the playoffs 
Chris Sarkis the scoring started. fade for a touchdown in the first players. on a high note. it’s always good 
senior captain after a series of three-and-quarter. riche had his extra st. edward’s (1-3) did not when you get the offense going. 
Fisher outs by duncan, knott again point attempt blocked follow-show up for its game against it’s a real defensive league so if 
turned to beglane and its ing the touchdown, leaving the sorin (4-0) and forfeited by you can score a couple touch-running game before Taiclet score at 6-0, where it would stay default. downs usually you can win a lot a real good secondary, our ‘no connected once more with a until the fourth quarter. o’neill (0-4) forfeited its of games.” fly Zone’ came through again.” touchdown pass to carroll. ---- late in the final quarter. game against dillon (2-2). 
fisher’s offense got going carroll was able to sustain duncan (0-4) was able to gain early and often, scoring touch-just one drive, a 13-play, 65-yardage by utilizing the speed downs on each of the team’s yard possession that ended of junior running back gerrit first two drives. The green wave in a touchdown on a halfback hobson, but the tenacious utilized the big play, including pass from junior running back Juggerknott defense would not long runs by junior quarterback bobby dorman. The rest of the allow the highlanders to con-Joe paggi and junior running game, the vermin were done in vert yardage into points. back ricky neville, as each ac-by costly penalties and turn-duncan increased its inten­counted for two scores. overs in crucial situations. sity in the fourth quarter after 
carroll junior captain Tom The loss eliminated carroll sophomore running back eric spoonmore noted earlier in the from postseason contention. krakowiak returned a punt 65 week that, historically, fisher fisher moves on to the play-yards. on the following play, had always been able to run offs and will play sunday krakowiak rushed for a seven-the ball effectively against the against siegfried, while yard touchdown to put the vermin (2-2). sunday proved no carroll’s season is over. highlanders on the board. different as neville rushed for “in the second half we 108 yards and two touchdowns Contact Alex Wilcox at played really well,” krakowiak on 11 carries, and paggi added awilcox1@nd.edu said. “There was a lot more 60 more yards and two scores excitement.” on seven rushes. Knott 13, Duncan 7 while the highlanders fin­
“we’ve just got a couple of big ished the season winless, they 
By ALEX STEMBAUGH 
bruising running backs,” sarkis sports writer are already looking to improve said. “we know if we get them next year and view sunday’s rolling, they’re just going to run knott was able to keep its game as a starting point, over everybody.” playoff dreams alive and stake krakowiak said. 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Ryan beats Pasquerilla East in close contest 
Lewis, Howard, Cavanaugh, Pasquerilla West and McGlinn take easy wins to close regular season 


but we’re not down about it. sunday’s game marked the we’re looking forward to the end of a challenging season for playoffs.” howard.. 
with the loss, lewis’s season “it was an up-and-down year is over, but no. 6 pangborn will for us,” ianni said, “we will con-look to survive and advance tinue this winning streak next when it plays no. 3 cavanaugh year.” in the first round of the playoffs with the season over for both next sunday. teams, howard and breen­
phillips will look to rebuild for Contact Samantha Zuba at next year. szuba@nd.edu 
Contact Kyle Foley at Howard 26, Breen-Phillips 0 kfoley2@nd.edu 
By KYLE FOLEY 

sports writer Cavanaugh 32, Badin 0 
By MEG HANDELMAN 

sunday’s matchup between sports writer howard and breen-phillips proved to be a one-sided affair, cavanaugh dominated as the high-powered ducks of-badin en route to earning fense cruised past the babes a 32-0 victory in sunday’s by the count of 26-0 in the fi-matchup. nal game of the season for both cavanaugh’s offense put on teams. a stellar performance to pull 
howard (2-5) set the tone off a win. early, as junior quarterback senior quarterback clare robinson completed a rosemary kelly ran for the 40-yard pass that set up a quick team’s first touchdown early score on the first possession of in the first half. her touch-the game. robinson led the of-down was closely followed fense for the ducks, as she went by an interception by ju­8-for-17 passing and scrambled nior meaghan ayers, one of to keep the babes defense on its three she had on the day. 
penalty on the wildcats.  20-12 in the final regular-sea-toes.their toes. ayers’s interception led to 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 

sports writer although the pyros have son game for both teams. robinson hit her targets with cavanaugh’s second touch-reached the end of their season, The quarterbacks for both pinpoint accuracy, finding down, scored by sophomore 
in sunday’s regular-season fi-they made a great appearance teams played aggressively, freshman receiver maria ianni caroline gerstle. nale, ryan defeated pasquerilla on the field today and played firing long passes and rarely twice in the corner of the end chaos senior coach Ted east 7-6 to secure its playoff well, senior captain and line-handing off the ball to their zone. ianni helped the ducks on huntington said he was berth. backer anna perino said. running backs. 
proud of players on both The wildcats’ and pyros’ de-“we moved the ball really The phoxes (4-2) struck first 
sides of the ball. fenses were put to the test in on an opening drive that in­
“it was a great win.” 
“In our hearts we 
this low-scoring battle. 
cluded two 15-yard pass plays. 
huntington said. “we had a 
won ... We had 
“our defense came to play 
pangborn’s passing game 

suffocating defense and the today,” ryan freshman receiver 
looked strong, and lewis (2-3-1) 

more wins this offense looked great.” erin clark said. “They made 
initially struggled to respond, 

season than in freshman receiver katie 
“Our defense came 
some great plays and had some 
as the chicks went three-
martin caught cavanaugh’s 
the last three 
great flag pulls.” 
to play today ... and-out on their next posses-third touchdown, while 
combined, so it 
with two minutes left in the They made some sion. a turnover-on-downs by 

sophomore receiver olivia first half, ryan junior lineback­
pangborn, however, gave lewis 

was successful. dietzel hauled in the fourth 
great plays and 
er kelly o’brien intercepted 
good field position and chicks 

The Babes are one. 
had some great 
the ball, paving the way for the 
senior quarterback and captain 
kelly said she was thrilled 
back.” 
wildcats (4-2) to score. senior flag pulls.” connaught blood capitalized, at the performance of the 
Molly Toner 
quarterback and captain maya 
as she completed a 24-yard pass 
chaos (5-1) on sunday. 
Erin Clark 
junior quarterback 
pillai threw a 30-yard pass to 
to start the drive and a 5-yard 
“our offense broke through 
freshman receiver Breen-Phillips 
clark for a touchdown. 
pass for the touchdown. 
and learned to relax,” kelly 
Ryan 
early in the second half, pillai 
lewis scored again to start 

said. “They have greatly ma-suffered a knee injury, and 
the second half, but the phoxes 

tured over the season and clark came in as her replace-
responded quickly to tie the defense with multiple tackles have made big steps in grow­ment, making her debut as 
game at 12. The chicks went and an interception that killed ing as a team.” quarterback. ahead in the closing minutes of any momentum breen-phillips after a disappointing per-
midway through the half, the well today, and our defense was the game on a 30-yard touch-(1-5) was trying to generate. formance, badin (2-4) plans pyros offense finally broke the tough the entire game,” perino down pass from blood to senior “our team showed up big to-to revamp the team in prep-wildcats’ defense. sophomore said. receiver caitlin connelly. blood day,” ianni said. “it’s just unfor-arations for its playoff run quarterback macy mulhall The no. 8 wildcats will said she was proud of her team’s tunate this is the last game of next week. The bullfrogs completed a 40-yard pass to put look to continue their win-effort after a rough season filled our season.” were without several players, the pyros (1-4-1) in scoring po-ning streak when they meet with close losses. on the other side of the ball, including fifth-year quar­sition. mulhall then completed no. 1 pasquerilla west in the “That’s how the whole season breen-phillips junior quarter-terback carli fernandez, a quick 10-yard pass to sopho-first round of the playoffs next should’ve been,” blood said. “it back molly Toner carried the for their game against more receiver nicole ameli in sunday. feels good to end that way and babes, as she evaded the ducks cavanaugh. the end zone. The pyros went to have a senior catch the win-defense on multiple running senior captain Tommasina for a two-point conversion, but Contact Kit Loughran at ning pass.” plays. Toner completed 4 of 12 domel said she was disap­mulhall’s pass fell incomplete. kloughr1@nd.edu pangborn senior captain passes but was unable to get the pointed at her team’s perfor­
for the remainder of the ragan Todd said the phoxes ball in the end zone. mance but knows it can do game, the wildcats ran the ball Lewis 20, Pangborn 12 would hold their heads high de-despite the loss, Toner said better. down the field, as junior run-spite the disappointing loss and the babes were very satisfied “This was not badin foot-
By: SAMANTHA ZUBA 

ning back leah fisher accu-sports writer the team’s mistakes, which in-with the results of their season. ball,” domel said. mulated over 40 rushing yards cluded an interception that led “in our hearts we won,” Toner badin senior coach colin in the second half alone. fisher lewis and pangborn put on to lewis’s final scoring drive. said. “we had more wins this king maintained pride in his ran the ball into the end zone, an aerial display sunday, but “it would have been nice to season than in the last three team despite its struggles. but the touchdown was called the chicks came out on top, win,” Todd said. “i think they combined, so it was successful. off due to an illegal contact as they defeated the phoxes were a little more prepared, The babes are back.” see badin PAGE 14 
paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Shots 
conTinued from page 20 
crystal Thomas owns the next closest total with 38. it should come as no surprise that bohaboy turned in another solid effort in notre dame’s 1-0 win against the orange (9-7-2, 6-3-1) on sunday. although it was freshman forward cari roccaro’s turn to score the winning goal, bohaboy still left her mark on the stat sheet. she recorded three shots, including two on goal. 
“i think i’ve been effective by just focusing on moving off the ball and creating space for my­self,” she said. 
bohaboy is just one of many talented players on notre dame’s roster, but said she has asserted herself more on of­fense this season. 
“i think this year that i have,” bohaboy said of assuming a bigger offensive role. “i think we count on all our forwards and offensive players and we need everyone to play their best in order for us to win.” 
in addition to her efforts on the field, bohaboy has helped bring together an inexperi­enced team off the field. 
“i think that all the return­ers needed to be leaders for the freshmen this year and help bring the team together,” she said. “we needed to help incorporate them and make them feel like they’re part of the team.” 
Though only a sophomore, bohaboy has already acquired a soccer wisdom beyond her years. she spent last sum­mer playing for beach fc, a women’s premier soccer league team in long beach, calif. bohaboy said her expe­rience has helped her lead her young teammates. 
“i think just playing with dif­ferent players and older players and a variety of different girls just helped me to work with the new people on our team,” she said. 
bohaboy may already have helped notre dame win a reg­ular season title, but make no mistake, she has her sights set on bigger things. 
“obviously, our goal is to win the big east tournament and go to the final four for the ncaa tournament.” 
if the irish accomplish their goals, they will not have done it without significant contribu­tions from their star forward. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
Hight 
conTinued from page 20 
made 40 saves. freshman forward crystal Thomas has played in all 19 games for the irish and leads the team with eight goals. 
irish coach randy waldrum and his staff have turned what most teams would surrender to a “rebuilding year” into a chance at winning the big east tournament and making another run in the ncaa tournament. 
with a roster of only two seniors and twelve freshmen, plenty of teams would be satisfied with a mediocre year, focusing on the future instead of the present. but that’s just not notre dame soccer. 

There is a culture of winning in alumni stadium. notre dame has earned a berth in the champion­ship weekend of the conference tournament 16 of the last 18 years. it has won three national champi­onships, the most recent coming in 2010. 
That said, the irish have certain­ly dealt with their share of adver­sity this season. They’ve taken the proverbial lumps along the way: a 1-0 defeat at wisconsin to start the regular season, a three-game stretch in early september during which they went 0-2-1. 
but every time it seemed as though a series of events would crush the young team, it found a way to bounce back. following the opening loss to the badgers, the irish came back and won three straight. after the tough three-game stretch, notre dame rattled off seven straight big east wins. 
most recently, the irish tied rutgers 2-2 in double overtime and fell 1-0 the next game to georgetown. but then it won its last two regular season games and its opening game of the big east tournament against syracuse on sunday in alumni stadium. 
much can be said about the youth of this year’s squad, its in­experience and lack of a strong corps of veterans. certainly, the irish don’t have an all-american like melissa henderson or melissa Tancredi leading the charge. 
but just as much can be said about the way notre dame turned what could have been a “down” year into a successful one thus far. 
some questions have yet to be answered: how will a young team perform under the pressure of the postseason? how far can talent take them? 
These questions will linger over the course of the postseason. 
but if their performance this season has been any indication, the irish will emphatically answer. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING | dual meeTs 

Belles struggle in busy opening weekend 
collegiate dive posted a 189.95 in performers for the belles on “since saturday was a double-earned the bronze spot with a time 
By ISAAC LORTON 

sports writer the one-meter dive for the fifth-saturday. dual meet, the girls had more rest of 3:52.81. 
best score in program history. watson finished second in the time between swims, which is “The girls really capped off the 
saint mary’s began its season “it was a good meet for us,” 200 freestyle with a time of 2:02.74 one of the reasons i think they im-afternoon with their performance with grueling back-to-back away benishek said. “we matched up and third in the 500 freestyle with proved on their times,” benishek in the 400 free,” benishek said. meets friday and saturday, as they well with [albion]. we had some a time of 5:29.93. nolan nabbed said. The belles will be back in ac-lost to albion 196-97 on friday, and strong swims. [canacci] had a second place in the 50-yard free-The last race of the day proved tion at the wabash woehnker then in a double-dual meet, lost to great dive friday night. it was a tre-style with a time of 26.07. neville to be the highlight of saturday, invitational in crawfordsville, ind., hope 244-52 and alma 176.5-118.5 mendous night for her. across the finished in second in the 100-yard benishek said, as the belles took starting nov. 16. onsaturday. board it was pretty good.” freestyle and third in the 200 med-third in the 400-yard freestyle relay. 
belles coach mark benishek said The trio of watson, nolan ley with times of 56.93 and 2:25.76 The team of watson, nolan, neville Contact Isaac Lorton at he was pleased with bhis squad’s and neville were again the top respectively. and freshman emily brown ilorton@nd.edu improvement from friday to 
paid adverTisemenT 
saturday. 
“overall [on saturday], we had much, much stronger times com­pared to friday,” benishek said. “The team as whole improved on their times … That was great to see. our athletes handled the back to back meets very well … it shows we are growing and remaining fo­cused. our goal is to improve on our times as the season goes on. we focused on each race and it showed.” 
against albion on friday, the top performers were senior ellie watson, sophomore anna nolan and freshman carolyn neville, who all won an event. neville fin­ished first in both the 100-yard and 200-yard freestyle, with times of 57.13 and 2:04.33 respectively. watson captured the top spot for the 200-yard individual medley by three seconds with a time of 
2:25.12. nolan narrowly defeated albion junior rachel francis in the 50-meter yard freestyle by three­hundreths of a second, with a time of 26.24. 
The belles sole diver, fresh­man andrea canacci, in her first 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTrick cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: ben foster, 32; gabrielle union, 40; winona ryder, 41; richard dreyfuss, 65. 
Happy Birthday: fine-tune old projects to suit current demands. There is money to be made if you are diligent and focus on what will bring the highest returns. let your intuition guide you. your ability to come up with innovative plans will lead to success. your numbers are 2, 9, 12, 21, 26, 39, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): a change in the way you feel about your looks, image and love life will result in an overhaul. aggressive action will be productive and bring positive results. There is a financial gain heading your way. opportunity knocks -- open the door. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Quickly size up your situation when dealing with partners, colleagues or peers quickly and make your move. don’t hesitate, or you may be put in an uncompromising position. use your intuition coupled with your knowledge and expertise to move forward. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): observation and keeping what you know to yourself will be what’s required if you want to get ahead. don’t ruffle feathers or exagger­ate a situation that could start a feud that suggests you meddled. focus on love, self-improvement and staying out of trouble. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t sit back waiting for things to come to you. embrace change and adventure. open your mind to new hobbies, people and places. indulge in a creative endeavor that you can share with someone you love. Take action. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): being less opinionated and more perceptive will help keep the peace with friends, your lover or family members. making alterations at home that support the needs of those you reside with will pay off. love will get you what you want, criticism won’t. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you have the discipline and the upper hand, so let ev­eryone know what you want. use your skills to convince others to see things your way. don’t argue when finding solutions is all that’s needed. a simpler lifestyle will help get you back on track. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): put more time and effort into mastering your skills and improving what you have to offer, who you are and the image you present. love is highlighted, but recognizing who is sincere and who isn’t will be difficult. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): spend more time on the relationships you have with partners. open your mind to suggestions made by someone who comes from a different perspective or has experienced difficulties that you have not. a creative venture will pay off. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): lay low, spend very little and listen attentively to what others say. making your changes based on what you already know works through the observations you’ve made. love is in the stars, and sharing your feel­ings will lead to a closer bond. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): home, family and striving to reach your profes­sional goals will take top priority. you will make gains through an unexpected and unusual source. good fortune is within reach and will allow you to follow a dream. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): present your plans and ideas for the future and you will get an enthusiastic response and the help you need to move forward. love is highlighted, and a promise can be made that will make your home life better and your future less stressful. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): finish what you start. contracts, settlements and legal matters will favor you. a change in a partnership will be a force play, but in the end, it will be to your benefit. being different will show your leadership ability. 


Birthday Baby: you are aggressive, intense, loyal and mysterious. you are a smooth operator. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 111, Quincy 52 

Irish start strong in exhibition game 
Veteran starters lead squad to victory over Quincy with cooperation, assists 

By ANDREW GASTELUM 
sports writer 
returning all five start­ers from last season, no. 23 notre dame didn’t miss a beat. senior forward Jack cooley and junior guards Jerian grant and eric atkins combined for 57 points on 21­for-28 shooting as the irish cruised to a 111-52 victory over division ii Quincy at the purcell pavilion. 
The irish put on a passing clinic from the get-go, com­bining for 30 assists in the game, led by atkins’ 13. 
“i’m just so impressed with how we passed the ball,” irish coach mike brey said. “i just don’t think there is anyone in the country that can pass the ball better than us […] and to have 30 assists, i don’t care who you are play­ing. when you’re sharing the ball like that, it’s something that’s a good trait and really positive.” 
atkins captained the of­fense with 6-for-6 shooting 
— including 3-for-3 from be­yond the arc — for 17 points to go with his 13 assists and five steals without a single turnover. grant added eight assists and 19 points, 13 com­ing in the first seven-and-a­half minutes in the second half. 
“i don’t really care how we score it,” brey said. “we are just so good about reading what’s a good shot. if Jerian’s got a good shot three times in a row, i think we are secure enough to let him do that. “ 
as he did in big east play last season, cooley got off to a quick start, scoring 11 points in the first 11 minutes of the game. The preseason all-big east first-team selection end­ed the half with 16 points, just five behind Quincy’s total of 
21. cooley led the irish with 21 points, seven rebounds, five steals and a technical foul. 
“i don’t know what got in his head that he could just grab me like that,” cooley said of the technical foul. “he just kept holding me and i told him ‘you have got to get off of me, i’m not going to stand this.’ he just didn’t listen so i threw him to the ground. you have to protect yourself.” 
senior center garrick sherman and freshman for­ward cameron biedscheid made their irish debuts just over six minutes into the game. with an impressive display of quickness and length, biedscheid proved to be a tough matchup for the hawks. The four-star re­cruit ended the night with 12 points, with 10 coming dur­ing his 10 first-half minutes. 
with 7:42 left in the first half biedscheid scored five straight points to put the irish up 27-6, forcing a Quincy timeout. 
“it felt great just to be out there with my teammates,” biedscheid said. “i have a lot of veteran teammates and when i went on the court i wasn’t nervous or anything because i knew they had my back the whole time. 
“coach brey always tells me to use my length and my speed to my advantage. There really wasn’t too much of a 
see speed PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

bohaboy’s game-winner propels team forward 
Sophomore helps clinch Big East confererence title 
By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 
notre dame entered its big east championship quarterfi­nal match against syracuse on sunday already boasting a share of the big east national division title. it would not have done so, however, without a certain soph­omore forward. 
lauren bohaboy netted the game-winner in a 1-0, double-overtime victory over depaul in the season finale. bohaboy’s goal provided the irish (13-4-2, 8-1-1 big east) a share of the regular season division title and provid­ed the forward quite the thrill. 
“That was really exciting,” bohaboy said. “it was a great win for our team and helped us to win the big east conference. i had a lot of fun in doing it.” 
bohaboy leads the irish in shots with a whopping 62 on the season. freshman forward 
see shoTs PAGE 18 

Irish answer questions emphatically 

Matthew Robison 
sports writer 
notre dame entered the season with plenty of questions about its team. how would it handle the departure of several crucial gradu­ated seniors? how would a roster so young compete in the big east? who would step up to fill leading roles? 
over the course of the regular season, the irish have made a statement, answeringall those questions. 
as one of only two seniors on the roster, defender Jazmin hall stepped up as the leader of the back line. Junior midfielders mandy laddish and elizabeth Tucker anchored a solid midfield, and freshmen across the roster proved youth would not hinder production. 
freshmangoaltender elise hight played in 12 games, started 11, only allowed six goals and 
see highT PAGE 18 




