
COMMENTARY 

Brey ranks as one of regular season’s best 
Mike Brey did not make it four of six Big East Coach of the Year awards Tuesday night. Instead, this year’s honor went to South Florida’s Stan Heath. By no means was Heath undeserv­ing — Brey voted for him after all. But the award should have belonged to Brey. 
Of all the criticism the Irish coach has faced in his 12 years under the Dome, one thing can no longer be doubted: He is one of the best regular season coaches in the country. 
Is that a back-handed com­pliment? Perhaps. But isn’t a back-handed compliment better than no compliment at all? 
Could this back-handed com­pliment have been delivered in years past? Quite possibly, but this year eliminated any shred of doubt from even the harshest of critics. 
Is this the description Brey wants attached to his name? Doubtful, but this usually pre­cedes those loftier accolades. 
Notre Dame begins play in the Big East championships two days later than teams such as Pittsburgh and Connecticut because Brey’s engineering avoided a down-year similar to the ones which struck the defending conference and na­tional champions, respectively. 
Pittsburgh’s Jamie Dixon and Connecticut’s Jim Calhoun joined the other coaches in the Big East to place Notre Dame ninth in the conference pre­season poll. Such a finish would have the Irish sweating come Selection Sunday. Instead, Brey can sleep easy Saturday night 
— no matter how his time in Madison Square Garden goes this week — knowing Notre Dame has a berth in the Big Dance. 
In those same preseason votes, coaches selected Irish graduate student forward Tim Abromaitis to the preseason all-conference first team. In­stead, Abromaitis only played two games this year. Following a four-game suspension due to a minor NCAA violation he averaged 14.0 points and 7.0 rebounds per game, all at the CBE Classic in Kansas City, Mo. Then, just after Thanksgiving, Notre Dame’s best player, and to this day the one averag­ing the most points per game this season, tore his ACL and ended what should have been a campaign for the Big East Player of the Year award won by Marquette’s Jae Crowder on Tuesday. 

Douglas Farmer 
Senior Sports Writer 
Without Abromaitis, the Irish could have packed in this season. That expected ninth-place conference finish had plummeted to a likely 11th or 12th, at best. Notre Dame was in serious trouble. 
Except no one told Mike Brey. 
A week into 2012, Notre Dame stood at 9-6, with all six losses coming away from home. In the first of Abromaitis’s two games this season, the Irish lost by 29 to Missouri. They fol­lowed that with a 20-point loss to Gonzaga and a 16-point shel­lacking from Cincinnati. Next up was a trip to Louisville. Few media members showed up, and even less expected the Irish to do so. 
Except no one told Mike Brey. 
Notre Dame waltzed into the KFC Yum! Center and finagled a double-overtime win over the then-No. 11 Cardinals. Yet, the Irish were still in trouble. A split of a two-game home stand later left the Irish at 11­8, with a 3-3 record in the Big East. Undefeated, top-ranked Syracuse was coming to town. Teams who start poorly in the Big East don’t have the luxury of soft games to make up the deficit. The Irish were not out of danger of watching their season disappear. 
Except no one told Mike Brey. 
The Irish beat the Orange, sparking a not-to-be-forgotten court storming. The Irish went to Seton Hall and Connecticut, and beat them too, and for good measure, added six more conference wins to the streak. For a few brief moments, one Wednesday night, it looked as if a Big East regular season title was within grasp. Alas, Syracuse beat South Florida on Feb. 22, and kept on winning, but Notre Dame will gladly take its third-place finish. Yes, that is six spots better than the Abromaitis-led squad was predicted to finish. 
Someone should be sure to tell Mike Brey. 
Or, don’t. Let’s see what bliss this ignorance brings next. 
Mike Brey is, without ar­gument, a magician when it comes to regular season suc­cess. He took a down-trodden 11-8 team and led them to a 21-10 conclusion with a top-25 ranking. 
If no one tells him, can he finally lead the Irish to Satur­day night at Madison Square Garden, or, better yet, the first appearance in the NCAA’s second weekend since the last of Matt Doherty’s recruits left in 2003? 
Perhaps Mike Brey knows the answer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu
   The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Irish head to NYC for tourney 


By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Editor-in-Chief 
A year ago, an Irish squad that lost two senior leaders to graduation surprised many in the Big East by earning a 14-4 league record en route to a No. 2 seed in the confer­ence tournament, where they were defeated in the semifi­nals by Louisville. This year, a Notre Dame team that lost veteran leaders to graduation, injury and early departure again exceeded expectations by earning a No. 3 seed in the postseason tournament — but this year, the Irish hope to go farther. 
“We were so close [to the title game] last year and it still stings a little bit,” senior guard Scott Martin said. “We still have that in our memory, so hopefully we can build on that.” 
The Irish (21-10, 13-5 Big East) struggled to find a rhythm in the early part of the season, highlighted by a 29-point loss to Missouri and a 20-point loss at Gonzaga at the end of November. After muddling through the early part of the conference slate, Notre Dame found its stride at the end of January when it upset then-No. 1 Syracuse 67-58 to kick off a nine-game winning streak, the longest league winning streak in program history. Now, Irish coach Mike Brey wants his squad to return to the mental­ity that helped his team hand the Orange their only loss of the season. 
“You’re kind of trying to get back into a frame of mind that you were in before the Syra­cuse game,” he said. “Can you get back into that kind of prac­tice routine … and that kind of psyche where man, you really needed each other? That’s the kind of mentality we have to have.” 
The late-season surge was enough to earn the Irish a No. 3 seed and double-bye in the tournament, just two wins away from the title game. Notre Dame has never ap­peared in the Big East tour­nament championship game, which traditionally has taken place on Saturday night. 
“[Getting to Saturday night] is something that’s been a goal for us,” Martin said. “Most of the year, we’ve talked about it as one of our points of empha­sis this year, just trying to get there.” 
In the quarterfinals, the Irish will face the winner of the South Florida-Villanova game, which took place af­ter this Irish Insider went to print. The Irish beat the Bulls 60-49 in their only meeting this year, a Jan. 10 meeting in Purcell Pavilion. Despite his team’s familiarity with the South Florida squad, Martin said the Irish are well aware of the challenge the Bulls would pose. 
“They’re big … and they rebound well, which is some­thing we kind of struggle on at times,” Martin said. “But we’re just excited to get out there and get to work and get kind of a routine before we play Thursday.” 
Notre Dame won a 74-70 overtime thriller at Villanova on Feb. 18, a victory marked by a late comeback to earn the seventh of nine consecutive league wins. 
No matter the opponent, the venue might be the single big­gest challenge the Irish face. The Irish are 55-45 all-time in Madison Square Garden, but lost their only contest there this year and have notoriously struggled to shoot accurately in the famously round arena, especially in the Big East tournament, where the Irish are 8-16 all time. 
Brey said that while his team has struggled there in the past, last year’s quarterfi­nal game showed Notre Dame is capable of success in the Garden. 
“You’ve got to get past that psychologically,” he said. “We were in a good rhythm last year … maybe that’s what I’ll talk to [my team] about.” 
Martin said he and his teammates will try do exact­ly what their coach has told them to do. 
“There’s always in the back of your head that we’ve dropped some games there and haven’t shot the ball par­ticularly well,” Martin said. “It’s still a basketball court. We try to enjoy it and relish the moment, but try to get some wins too.” 

Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 






Captain comeback 
Senior guard Scott Martin leads youthful Irish squad through rough times, into No. 3 seed at tourney 
By ERIC PRISTER ery time he has to take the Valparaiso, Ind., transferred Senior Sports Writer captain off the floor. from Purdue after his fresh­“He has a really amaz-man season and so had to sit 
The Irish started the season ing basketball IQ,” Brey said. out his entire sophomore sea-short on leadership with just “He really knows the game. If son. Then during preseason two senior returning start-there’s a smarter basketball practices heading into his ju­ers. But when fifth-year for-player in the country, I want nior year, Martin tore his ACL ward Tim Abromaitis went to see it. I really value that. and missed the entirety of his down with an ACL tear, se-He has great input here in second season with the Irish. nior guard Scott Martin had practice, in scouting reports, Martin was finally eligible to start taking charge — and bring up questions. He’s re-and healthy last season and taking charges. ally helped our younger guys’ became the fifth starter on a 
“I think I had to be even basketball IQ. [Junior forward senior laden team. He aver-more vocal when [Abromai-and All-Big East second-team aged just under 10 points per tis] went down because you selection forward] Jack Cool-game and played more than lose that voice on the floor,” ey’s [success] this year has 30 minutes per contest, win-Martin said. “He was so big a lot to do with Scott Martin ning the teams Most Improved for us in every aspect of the being his partner on the back Player award. But this season game that there’s a lot of open line and talking to him and Martin said he had to change air out there, and I felt like I getting him confident and his on-the-court demeanor had to pick up the slack a little helping him. He’s a big, big because now he was the most bit.” factor.” experienced player on the 
Abromaitis entered the sea-But Martin is not just a vocal court. son as the de facto leader of leader. He regularly guards “I think I’m more vocal than this year’s Notre Dame squad the opponent’s best big man I’ve ever been, and I just try to after averaging 15 points and and unofficially leads the na-lead through example,” Mar-six rebounds per game in 2010-tion in charges taken. tin said. “If something needs 
11. But he missed the first four “I don’t really think about to be said, it’s my responsibil­games of the it too much,” ity to step up and say it. I need regular sea-Martin said to speak a little bit more than son because of taking I have in the past.” of an eligibil-c h a r g e s . The leadership role could not ity violation “I think I’m more vocal “You just try have come at a more difficult during his than I’ve ever been, and to make the time, Brey said. Notre Dame redshirted I just try to lead through right play started slowly and dropped second sea-example. If something at the right its first four road games by an son with the needs to be said, it is time, and if I average of 15 points per game. Irish. After my responsibility to feel like I can Martin struggled with the rest returning for step up and say it.” get one, I try of his team on the court, but two games, and get one. Brey said he kept his focus Abromaitis Scott Martin I just try to and attitude strong. tore his ACL not move and “I think he was in a fog a 
senior guard 
in practice, hope for the little bit [when Abromaitis ending his call. went down],” Brey said. “He season. “We work was down for a couple days. 


M a r t i n on it in prac-But one of the things I respect was forced to tice. Coach is about Scott is when [Abro­pick up the slack and became always talking about trying to maitis] is gone, he’s out there the lone Irish captain before get charges and being in the leading a bunch of puppies to lead in a tougher situation year seniors, even though sophomore guard Eric Atkins right place, so it’s definitely around that are running into than Scott Martin, and he ab-[Abromaitis] can’t play, have was given the honor midway something we work on. But each other, and he’s not play-solutely delivered.” really helped us skyrocket through the season. And while you have to have a feel for it, ing very well. And yet his de-Martin played an impor-into the team we are now. He Martin ranks just fourth on and I think that just comes meanor at practice on a daily tant role in Notre Dame’s took on the role better than the team in points per game with me being old.” basis was pretty consistent, turnaround. He recorded he would have if [Abromaitis] and third on the team in re-Martin’s career at Notre as far as helping, leading and back-to-back double-doubles was playing.” bounds per game, Irish coach Dame was rocky from the out-being upbeat. I don’t know if in wins over Louisville and Martin said that for the Mike Brey said he cringes ev-set. The 6-foot-8 guard from I’ve had a captain who’s had South Florida, games which younger players, he had to be 

Brey said really started Notre a more vocal leader and give Dame’s winning mentality. more instruction to his team-
The senior captain also mates. scored 13 against Syracuse, “It’s an overall mentality handing the Orange their that I try to have,” he said. only loss of “You try to the regular keep every-season and body in the begin ning right spots Notre Dame’s “I don’t know if I’ve had and the right school-record a captain who’s had to places, but I nine -game lead in a tougher situation think a lot of Big East win-than Scott Martin, and he it is vocally ning streak. absolutely delivered.” just yelling at It was his guys, telling 3-pointer as them, ‘Get 
Mike Brey 
the shot clock here and get 
Irish coach 
expired in there,’ and the second then calming half that put them down a dagger into when things the No. 1 team in the country. need to be calmed down.” 
Martin was surrounded by Martin and the Irish turned inexperience — Notre Dame’s their season around, but now four other starters averaged have more to prove in the Big just 36 minutes per game East tournament. Last season, among them. But for new Martin excelled in Madison starters like freshman guard Square Garden, scoring 11 Pat Connaughton, Martin was points in Notre Dame’s quar­just the type of leader they terfinals win over Cincinnati needed. and then exploding with 23 
“The energy he brings and points and eight rebounds in his desire to win has sparked its semifinals loss to Louis-me because I’m the same ville. As this year’s tourna­way: I want to win, what-ment approaches, Martin said ever it takes, and that’s what he just hopes he can channel he wants to do,” Connaugh-some of that success. ton said. “I know he’s been “You try to ride any posi­that guy, the one who’s really tive momentum you can get, helped us get over the hump, so hopefully I can use it for especially in the tough times. momentum and replicate it,” Even if he was having hard he said. times, he was helping us help the team. Him and [Abromai-Contact Eric Prister at tis] both, just being the fifth-eprister@nd.edu 





No. 0 Eric Atkins 

So. guard, 6’1” 
12.4 points per game 



4.1 assists per gameNo. 22 Jerian Grant 1.3 steals per game No. 24 Pat Connaughton 


39. 4 minutes per game in Big East play

So. guard, 6’5” Fr. forward, 6’5” 
12.5 points per game A speedy and durable sophomore, Atkins has provided a steady and 6.9 points per game 
4.9 assists per game 4.5 rebounds per game
reliable point guard for the Irish in a topsy-turvy regular season.


2.8 assist to turnover ratio Seven games with 10 or more points
The Columbia, Md., native and tri-captain has topped 30 minutes of

Four games with 20 or more points Started last 12 games playing time in all but two games this season and provides Notre
A streaky and lanky sophomore, An athletic and versatile freshman, Connaughton has forced his way
Dame with another capable perimeter shooter. 

Grant has emerged as a viable into the starting lineup in the latter half of the season with not only scorer after not playing last his scoring ability but also his rebounding prowess. The Arlington, season. The Bowie, Md., native Mass., native has struggled in the last four games, registering only earned a spot on the All-Big East 15 points as the Irish split their f nal two games. 






No. 14 Scott Martin No. 45 Jack Cooley 


rookie team after a year in which 


Sr. guard, 6’8” Jr. forward, 6’9” 
he scored in double f gures in 

9.5 points per game 12.5 points per game No. 12 Alex Dragicevich 24 of Notre Dame’s 31 games. 5.5 rebounds per game 9.2 rebounds per game 




So. guard, 6’7”

Grant’s smooth 3-point shot and 1.7 assists per game 62 percent from the f eld 

7.0 points per game
43 percent from the f eld in Big East play 12 double-doubles
desire to take the last-second 


1.9 rebounds per game shot could be critical for the An experienced and savvy senior, A physical and talented junior, 1.2 assists per game 
34 percent on 3-pointers

Irish. Martin has been solid for the Cooley — an All-Big East second Irish all season long, starting team selection — has provided A long and rangy sophomore, Dragicevich has every game he has played in. an interior scoring threat for the slipped into a sixth man role for the Irish during The Valparaiso, Ind., native and Irish this season. The Glenview, the f nal half of the season. The Northbrook, Ill., Purdue transfer is not f ashy by Ill., native and Big East Most native will rely on his 3-point shot as he battles any means but can f ll up the Improved Player has averaged Connaughton for playing time in the postseason. stat sheet in a variety of ways. just less than 18 points per game Dragicevich tallied double f gures in the season The tri-captain has also provided in the f nal eight games, racking f nale for the f rst time since December. invaluable leadership off the up six double-doubles in that court. stretch. 


Nov. 18 

Irish start off the 

Oct. 19 
season with a four-Abromaitis named 
game winning streakto Preseason All-Big without Abromaitis 
Nov. 27 East First Team 
Irish handle Bryant in f rst game after 

Sept. 15 Nov. 12 
Abromaitis’ injury 
Tim Abromaitis Eric Atkins leads the way 
and Scott Martin in 80-67 season opening win over Mississippi Nov. 30 Valley State 


Nov. 25 


Abromaitis tears ACL in practice, Jan. 16

Oct. 11 
Nov. 21–22 

misses remainder Irish look lethargic
NCAA suspends Notre Dame drops Rebuilding Maryland with 69-58 win in 

of the season Cincinnati, 71-55 in 65-58 road loss to
Tim Abromaitis for two straight to No. 21 f ghts past reeling Crossroads Classic lowly Rutgers

four games due to Missouri and Georgia Irish in BB&T Classic eligibility issues in CBE Classic 

Jan. 21 Feb. 8 

Feb. 22

Feb. 13
Cooley starts streak

Notre Dame hands No. Jan. 29 Feb. 18 No. 20 Notre Dame annihilates West 
Mar. 4 
Irish ranked in both polls for

1 Syracuse its only loss Notre Dame upsets of four-straight double-No. 23 Irish come from Virginia 71-44, sets school record for Cooley named
f rst time, Cooley selected as 

of the seasons; students No. 24 Connecticut doubles in win at 20 points down to steal consecutive Big East wins with nine Big East Most
Big East Player of the Week 

in Hartford, Conn., hostile West Virginia overtime road victory Improved Player with 50-48 win at Villanova, continue Mar. 4 Feb. 11 Cooley named to second
No. 20 Irish clinch 

Notre Dame team All-Big East; Grant
Feb. 15 double-bye and
Jan. 25 Feb. 4 beats DePaul named to Big East All-
No. 23 Notre Dame three-seed in BigIrish shoot lights-
Irish defense in “trap game” gets revenge in 71-Feb. 20 East tournament with Rookie Team 
out in 76-59

shuts down behind Jerian 53 win over Rutgers Irish peak Senior Night win over
blowout win over Mar. 5 
Seton Hall, gives Grant’s 22 points at No. 18 Providence
at Purcell Pavilion

No. 15 Marquette Irish head
Pirates f rst in ESPN/on national to New York 
home loss USA Today 
television for Big East
Coaches’ Poll No. 20 Irish comeback attempt tournament
falls short in 61-58 loss at St. John’s; winning streak ends at nine 
Feb. 27 
No. 20 Notre Dame struggles to f nd rhythm at No. 11 Georgetown in 59-41 loss 

Douglas Farmer Eric Prister Allan Joseph 
Senior Sports Writer Senior Sports Writer Editor-in-Chief 

When it comes to Madison Square Garden, common sense and recent history say don’t put too much faith in Notre Dame. The sight lines simply mess with Irish shooters’ mojo. 
This year won’t be any differ­ent in that regard, but what will differ is the quality of opponent. 
Notre Dame does not need to shoot all-that well to beat the likes of South Flor­ida and even Marquette. If the Irish play solid, fundamental basketball, they will advance to Sat­urday. 
As for next weekend, it will likely be the last of the year for the Irish. It all depends on the draw, but if a Long Beach State or a Drexel appears op­posite Notre Dame, such as it ends. 


It has been a magical season for Notre Dame in a completely different way than it was last year. Last year, five senior starters came together, nearly won the Big East and earned a No. 2 seed in the NCAA tournament. This year, one senior starter and a multitude of new faces fought through early-season struggles and did some­thing no Notre Dame team had ever 
done before, winning nine straight conference games. The postseason will not be as kind to the Irish and get­ting past Marquette will prove to be too much. 
Unless they earn a very favorable draw, the NCAA tour­nament will prove to be much of the same, as the Irish will struggle to get through the first round before losing in the second. Despite this, the season should be considered a success. 

It’s one of those things that makes no sense, but is fact none­theless: Notre Dame is no good in Madison Square Garden. 
Maybe it’s the bright lights, maybe it’s the perfect circular­ity of the arena or maybe it’s the gigantic Reese’s billboard under­neath the scoreboard. Whatever 
it is, the Irish always struggle in the Garden. I don’t think this team will flame out in its first game of the tournament — they’re too solid for that 
— but I don’t see them reaching the title game ei­ther. 
The Irish will fall to Marquette in the semifinals due to some untimely cold shooting, but it won’t de­rail all hopes of a deep run in the NCAA tournament. 

BOTTOM LINE: Syracuse 74, Notre Dame 59 BOTTOM LINE: Marquette 63, Notre Dame 59 BOTTOM LINE: Marquette 68, Notre Dame 60 

Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 

Once again, Notre Dame enters the Big East tournament with high expectations. Once again, Notre Dame faces questions about its futil­ity in the Big East tournament and at Madison Square Garden in general. 
What better way for the Irish to celebrate the last year of the Big East as we know it than to exorcise their demons and make it to the Saturday 
final for the first time ever? 
Unfortunately for Irish coach Mike Brey’s squad, I don’t see it happening. Despite being the beneficiaries of the easiest path possible to the championship game, I expect Marquette to exact revenge against Notre Dame in the semifinals. 
With two or three wins this week, the Irish can trans­form a memorable season into a magical one. 
BOTTOM LINE: Marquette 75, Notre Dame 67 
Matthew DeFranks 
Sports Writer 


The Irish, who have overcome ob­stacle after obstacle, feel like a team of destiny. Lose the reigning Big East Player of the Year? No problem. Lose your senior captain and best player to a season-ending injury? No prob­lem. Lose road games by 20 points? Not an issue, either. 
But I don’t think all the intangibles 
are enough to bring home Notre Dame’s first Big East championship. I do think the Irish overcome their shooting woes in Madison Square Garden and slip by Marquette in the semifinals. But I do not see them taking a conference title from a deep Syracuse team that will have stalwart center Fab Melo this time. 
Think Jim Boeheim hasn’t shown footage of the Or­ange’s only loss of the year over and over and over again? Think again. 
BOTTOM LINE: Syracuse 68, Notre Dame 57 
Andrew Gastelum 
Sports Writer 

The Irish were not supposed to get a double-bye. They weren’t supposed to go on a nine-game winning streak. They weren’t even supposed to be con­sidered for the NCAA tournament. 
But something tells me this Irish team has peaked and it isn’t entering the Big East tournament on the best of terms with two losses and an unim­pressive Senior Night win. 
Meanwhile, No. 9 Marquette looks poised to win its first Big East title. With All-Big East first team seniors Darius Johnson-Odom and Jae Crowder, this may be the only shot at the title for a while. Also, the Golden Eagles remember how it felt to be blown out on national television by the Irish. But if the Irish can knock down shots at a decent rate, watch out. They aren’t supposed to win, but that hasn’t stopped them this season. 
BOTTOM LINE: Marquette 62, Notre Dame 54 






Cooley develops into All-Big East selection 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Jack Cooley lives life in a ho-hum way, adhering to rhythm and routine rather than sponta­neity, so the way he found out he received Big East second team honors Sunday should surprise no one. 
“I’m … disappointed in my team, because I found out from my best friend … because I don’t check Twitter or Facebook,” the junior forward said. “I woke up at 12:15 [p.m.] and didn’t have any texts, but my best friend texted me ‘congrats’ [at 12:30] and I was embarrassed and asked, ‘For what?’” 
Now in his third year at Notre Dame, Cooley has transformed himself from a Luke Harangody look-alike into one of the best players in what is typically re­garded as the nation’s top con­ference. 
“I’m really proud of Jack,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “He cer­tainly was probably a candidate for first team, but I’m kind of happy he isn’t first team. He still needs to have things to shoot for. But from where he came from in the fall to being a second-team guy, I’m very, very proud of him and I know he’s proud of himself, and he’s earned it.” 
During the regular season, Cooley averaged 12.5 points per game and 9.2 rebounds per game, numbers that reached 
14.6 and 10.2, respectively, in Big East play. What is most remark­able, however, is that he was even in a position to hang with the big boys of the Big East. 
Last summer, Cooley was diag­nosed with a condition that lim­its his blood from processing and delivering oxygen, raising doubts about his endurance and ability to play extended minutes. He an­swered that challenge by start­ing in 28 of 30 games in which he played and registered 32.7 minutes per game in conference play. He even recorded a season-high 44 minutes in the double overtime victory over Louisville on Jan. 7. 
When his condition was an­nounced in November and Notre Dame suffered several embar­rassing non-conference defeats, it was borderline unfathomable that Cooley could wind up on the Big East’s second team and be named the conference’s Most Im­proved Player. 
“The only person who called that I’d get Big East team was [former Irish guard] Ben Hans­brough, who actually Facebook-messaged me before the season and told me that I should be re­ally disappointed if I don’t get at least Big East [second] team and then [it] happens … I’m extremely excited and happy,” Cooley said. “To think at some parts early in the season that this would hap­pen now, it’s just incredible.” 
Cooley said he is disappointed in himself for not earning Big East first team honors, but that it will drive him to improve for his senior campaign. 
“I definitely use it [as motiva­tion],” he said. “I wouldn’t con­sider myself better than anyone on the first team. The choices that were made to pick that team were great and I think they all were justified. So I just use it more as motivation than disap­pointment.” 
For now, though, Cooley is less concerned with next season than with the task at hand: helping Notre Dame overcome its typi­cal struggles in Madison Square Garden. 
“[It’s] a little bit [of a psycho­logical hump], but this year we’ve done a lot of things that have never been done before, so we have that edge,” he said. “It’s a little different because it is the Garden. It’s a pretty big deal. You just have to get through it and play as a team and remember it’s just another arena and just go out there and play hard.” 
Cooley said he regards the tournament as a proverbial reset button, with each squad starting on a level playing field. 
“The season was good, but now it’s over,” he said. “Everyone gets going in the postseason, ev­eryone has something to prove and everyone has to go out there and reprove we’re a good team and just start over.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 



Young guards earn playing time 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS they have both had standout Sports Writer performances this year. 
Dragicevich’s signature per-

Entering this season, sopho-formance came in Notre Dame’s more guard Alex Dragicevich 72-59 win over then-No. 22 and freshman guard Pat Con-Pittsburgh. The Northbrook, naughton were unproven and Ill., native poured in a career-unknown. They combined for high 22 points, including four zero starts, 20 points and 62 3-pointers. minutes of playing time. Since that game, however, 
Now,  the  Drag icev ich  
youthful  duo  has  dipped  
has combined  into  double  
for  around  “If one of them can  figures  just  
14 points and 45 minutes — per game — in help­ing provide  provide us with some big time minutes and big time stats, it really boosts everyone’s confidence.”  once. He had 12 points in the regular season finale against Provi­ 
much-needed depth for a thin Notre  Eric Atkins sophomore guard  dence. “Their pro­duction defi- 

Dame squad ha mpered by the loss of graduate student Tim Abromai­tis. 
“It makes the team totally dif­ferent [if five or six players are producing],” sophomore guard Eric Atkins said. “If one of them can provide us with some big time minutes and big time stats, it really boosts everyone’s con­fidence. To see one of them hit a couple of threes, it just really keeps everything flowing well.” 
The pair of inexperienced guards has largely fought for playing time all season long, with Dragicevich earning the starts early and Connaughton garnering the starts lately. 
“We need both of their punch­es,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “At times, we’ve had Alex here for the most part and Pat on the road. A couple games, we had them sharing pretty well — one scored eight, one scored seven. That’s important for us.” 
While each player averages a modest seven points per game, nitely helps 
us, and gives 
us another dimension,” senior guard Scott Martin said. “It’s a little bit more of an inside-out presence. We focused so much on getting the ball to Jack last game, and [Dragicevich] hit a couple of big ones to stretch it out for us. So I think they just make us that much tougher to guard.” 
Dragicevich has shot well from behind the arc this sea­son, knocking down 34 percent of his 3-pointers. Brey said he credits Irish assistant coach Martin Ingelsby with Dragicev­ich’s improvement from a year ago, when he averaged just 1.4 points per game. 
Brey also said the coaching staff must use a different ap­proach with Dragicevich. 
“I’m tired of telling him [not to overthink plays],” Brey said. “I don’t want to meet with him too much because then he starts analyzing everything we talk about.” 
Connaughton, meanwhile, has stepped into his role seam­lessly, playing a big role in Notre Dame’s upset of then-No. 1 Syra­cuse. His two 3-pointers early in the first half set the tone for the Irish and energized the capac­ity crowd at Purcell Pavilion. 
The Arlington, Mass., native also propelled the Irish to vic­tories against Marquette and Villanova. Against the Golden Eagles, he recorded his first double-double with 23 points and 11 rebounds. 
In the overtime road win over the Wildcats, Connaughton knocked down seven 3-pointers while also snatching nine re­bounds. Since that game, how­ever, he has scored just 13 total points in four games. 
Brey said a goal of his head­ing into the Big East tourna­ment was to get both Connaugh­ton and Dragicevich going. 
“I think Alex’s frame of mind is good,” Brey said. “What I need to do is get Pat prepared. This is his first postseason. He’s logged a lot of minutes and there’s been a lot of responsibil­ity, and I almost want to get him re-energized this week.” 
After the 75-69 win over Providence, Brey said he toyed with the idea of shuffling Dragicevich into the starting lineup in place of Connaughton. 
“I think we’ll stay with what we have,” Brey said. “My gut tells me, after thinking it through over the weekend, that we stay the course and get Pat going and bring Alex off the bench.” 
Connaughton, Dragicevich and the rest of the Irish will look to capture the school’s first Big East title this weekend in New York’s Madison Square Garden. 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 




Atkins, Grant compliment each other in Irish backcourt 
By ANDREW GASTELUM “It’s an unbelievable feel-lineup and playing 35 minutes Sports Writer ing playing at the Garden un-per game — without missing a der those lights,” Atkins said. single one — would make a size-
Opposites somehow attract. “It’s a little bit more pressure able dent in most players’ rookie Welcome to the Notre Dame because of the mystique of the seasons, but Grant had a men­backcourt, where confident whole place. We just have to be tor in Atkins who went through meets bashful and intense fuses focused out there and focus on the trials of Big East action last with reserved. But sophomore basketball.” season. guards Jerian Grant and Eric These two guards have shown “[Eric] has meant a lot [to Atkins are united by the game, a nothing but focus on the court all me],” Grant said.  “He has game once started on D.C.-area year, culminating in Irish coach shown me a lot and taken the playgrounds, which now magi-Mike Brey naming the soft-pressure off of me and is able to cally finds itself heading north spoken Atkins captain midway help me out. He is a huge part of to Madison Square Garden. through the season and Grant my game. 
“Before the game, it’s mostly being named to the All-Big East “[Eric has helped] just learn-like, ‘Wow, you’re playing in Rookie Team on Monday. ing how to play both ends be-the Garden,’ but once the game “I’m really proud of [Grant],” cause almost every night you are starts it’s just another basket-Atkins said. “He really deserves playing against a guy in the Big ball game in an arena against to be on the All-Rookie Team. East that can score. Being able another team,” Grant said. “The He played well all year for us to play the game defensively and big hype about the Garden is and took really big shots at big offensively and put the game to-before the game, but during the times. Also, he had a really good gether [is key].” game it is just basketball.” assist-to-turnover ratio [11th in While Atkins builds his own 

Madison Square Garden is the NCAA].” legacy, Grant is trying to sepa­basketball’s Acropolis — the al-Meanwhile, Grant couldn’t rate himself from a path seem-practice, much to the jovial cha-rebounds we get. He has more mighty center of the basketball accept all of the credit for ingly already paved for him. grin of other Irish players. rebounds than me, which is not world —which, according to At-his team-leading 12.5 points Grant’s father, Harvey, was the “Last year [Brey] would run supposed to happen,” Grant said kins, provides the ultimate chal-and 4.9 assists per game. Be-12th pick in the 1988 NBA draft, game situations and he’d have while cracking a smile. “It’s a lenge. ing thrown into the starting while his uncle Horace won four [Grant] take the shot and we’d little rivalry for sure.” 
NBA championships — three as be like, ‘J’s not even playing this Familiar rivalry or friendly a part of Michael Jordan’s Bulls. year, coach. Did you know that? competition, the two are instru-Although not known for their He can’t do that in a game,’” ju-mental cogs in Brey’s plan for assists, twin-brothers Harvey nior forward Jack Cooley said success. and Horace may have passed jokingly. “And he’d hit it, and “The B-W Parkway guards their desire to win and competi-if he didn’t he’d be really mad are going to be a key,” Brey said. tive edge to the 6’5” Jerian. at himself. From that point on “There is no question they give 
“Even on the playground, I knew when next year came us a confidence and they make when the last basket came up around and when he was al-plays for us. Really, they were I want[ed] the ball. When it lowed to play, coach knew some-the ones when we won at Lou-comes down to your team need-thing.” isville, which was kind of a big ing a basket and your team While Grant wants the ball light bulb going on. Those were needing a win, I want the ball in his hands for the final shot, the guys that kind of made us in my hands,” Grant said. “[It Atkins will assuredly make the believe down the stretch and comes from] just watching bas-stellar pass to his roommate into overtime.” ketball so much and knowing (see the final minutes against Dubbed the B-W Parkway the best players have the basket-Villanova). Atkins has seen an guards for the famous Wash-ball in their hands. I just want to enormous jump in his produc-ington D.C. highway, a mere 21 be that guy at the end who helps tion this season, which includes miles separate Columbia and the team.” averaging 12.4 points and 39.4 Bowie, Md., the hometowns of 
Even when Grant took the minutes per game in Big East Atkins and Grant. The duo even year off last year due to a guard-play — which means he is on the faced off in an AAU champion-heavy lineup, he would still take bench for only 36 seconds per ship with their Washington the clutch, last-second shots in game. D.C. club teams in high school. 
Against DePaul on Feb. 11, the At Notre Dame the guards are duo combined for 27 points in a joined under one jersey but they 50-point second half. On Feb. 18 never forget their roots. against Villanova, Atkins led the “Coming from the same place charge with 17 points. Not to be makes our relationship easier,” outdone, Grant answered back Atkins said. “We knew each oth­the next game with 20 points er before coming into here, but against West Virginia on Feb. it transitioned here. And coach 
22. While remaining unselfish, [Brey] giving us the confidence forthcoming teammates, the and being from the same area as roommates have developed an well helps us while we are on the uncanny on-the-court rivalry of court. It’s really nice to have.” sorts. 
“We talk about how many Contact Andrew Gastelum at assists we get and how many agastel1@nd.edu 









PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

From upper left, clockwise: Freshman guard Pat Connaughton attempts a shot during Notre Dame’s 71-44 win over West Virginia on Feb. 22; sophomore guard Eric Atkins tries to corral a loose ball during Notre Dame’s 79-65 win over Providence on March 2; sophomore guard Alex Dragicevich drives to the basket during Notre Dame’s win over Providence. 


