
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Third Eye Blind rocks Notre Dame 
Veteran band plays for a sold-out Stepan Center crowd with newcomer Hoodie Allen 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
Students experienced a blast from the past when Third Eye Blind took the stage Saturday night for the annual Student Union Board (SUB) spring con­cert at Stepan Center. 
The band, in its third perfor­mance at Notre Dame, played several of its early hits to a sold-out crowd of nearly 2,000 students, SUB concert program­mer Lauren Keating said. 
“We sold all of the tickets the day they went on sale, which was great,” Keating said. “If you were going to see a band like Third Eye Blind anywhere else, tickets would usually cost somewhere between $40 and $50. When you would usually pay that kind of money for a show like this, I think $15 is an incredibly reasonable price.” 
Keating said rapper Hoodie Allen’s opening performance energized the crowd before Third Eye Blind took the stage. 
“Hoodie Allen … did a great job of engaging with the crowd. He performed a freestyle rap about Notre Dame, and incor­porated everything from [men’s basketball coach Mike] Brey to [Club] Fever, which was a definite crowd-pleaser,” Keat­ing said. “I’ve talked to several people who had never heard his music before the concert but left as new fans.” 
Keating said students were enthused by the selection of Third Eye Blind for the annual spring concert.“I thought we 

see CONCERT/page 6 



Pub sparks scholarly discussion 
By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
Students and professors can step outside the class­room to discuss intellectual matters in an informal set­ting through the new Stu­dent Pub. 
Sophomore Neal Ravindra, academic affairs director for student government, said the Dean’s Fellows, the College of Arts and Letters and stu­dent government co-sponsor the Student Pub. 
“It’s kind of founded in the idea of the Oxford University pub model where [authors C.S.] Lewis and [J.R.R.] Tolk­ien used to go to the pub and talk about their different lit­erary ideas over drinks,” he said. 
Student body president Pat McCormick said the pub helps foster a “community of learning” on campus, in­corporating both faculty and the student body. 
“This was another oppor­tunity to really advance this effort in a way where we can create a space on cam-

see PUB/page 3 



Holy Half runners conquer campus 
Website tracks usage of 

campus laundry rooms 
the machines and extra trips down the stairs looking for an open machine,” Zheng said. 
Zheng said Casey Cock­erham, former chair of the campus technology commit­tee, helped make the launch of LaundryView a reality during his term. 
“[Cockerham] did a little re­search, talked to student gov­ernment members from other colleges and decided it was a project we should pursue,” she said. 
The idea was proposed at one of the committee’s meet­ings during the 2010-2011 academic year after, learning about a similar system in place at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Zheng said. She said Cockerham spoke with David Prentkowski, NDFS di­rector, about the possibility 
see LAUNDRY/page 5 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Saturday morning, 1,120 run­ners toed up to the starting line for the eighth annual Holy Half Marathon and 10k race before most on campus had even eaten breakfast.  
Sponsored by the Class of 2014, the event raised approxi­mately $30,000 in support of Hope Ministries, the St. Joseph County Public Library and the Literacy Council of North Cen­tral Indiana.  
Student organizer Carolyn Green said the event planning team was pleased with the race’s turnout. 
“The goal was to make an opportunity for students to in­teract outside of [normal] cam­pus events … this was a really unique way for doing that,” she said. “Really, it is a physical ac­complishment, but it becomes something bigger than yourself, because it’s not only fulfilling something that is a part of the Notre Dame tradition, but we 



By CAROLINA WILSON 
News Writer 

Gone are the days of go­ing to your dorm’s laundry room with an armful of dirty clothes, only to find a room of occupied washers and dryers. 
Last week, student govern­ment and Notre Dame Food Services (NDFS) announced the campus launch of Laun­dryView, a website that shows the availability of washers and dryers on campus at any given time. 
Yiting Zheng, chair of Stu­dent Senate’s campus technol­ogy committee, was a driving force behind the launch of the site at Notre Dame. The pro-
also raised $30,000 for local year’s race, Green said. 

gram is also available in a mo-charities.” “The administration was kind 
bile version for further conve-The biggest challenge for of reluctant to have the race 
nience. race coordinators was over-this year because of all the in­
“I hope it will be a useful coming the negative effects of 
tool for the students [by] pre­the scorching heat during last see MARATHON/page 5 
venting forgotten laundry in 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Saint Mary’s hosts prospective students page 3 u Women’s basketball to compete in Elite 8 page 24 u Third Eye Blind Review page 12 u Viewpoint page 10 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT MADE THE 90S AWESOME? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Michelle  Rachel Dever  Concha Prado  Ryan Andersen  Ryan Smith  Greg Habiak  
Lundholm  
junior  junior  sophomore  junior  freshman  freshman  
Welsh Family  Cavanaugh  Lewis  Duncan  Zahm  Keenan  
“Pokeman.”  “Tomagatchi.”  “Backstreet  “Chumbawamba.”  “We did.”  “Furbies. No  
Boys.  wait — my birth.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Reality TV star ‘flour bombed’ on the red carpet 
HOLLYWOOD, Cali. — Just before 8 p.m. after finish­ing posing for the photog­raphers at an event for her new fragrance, True Reflec­tion, at the London Hotel off of Sunset Blvd., Kim was speaking to the house crew on the red carpet when a young woman strolled up to the reality star and dumped a bag of what appeared to be flour on Kim’s head. 
She came from Kim’s left, with a Zip-Lock baggie,” an Access Hollywood staffer on the scene said, noting the bag had about three fists full of white powder, believed to be flour. 
According to the Access 


LOCAL WEATHER 

staffer, who witnessed the event, no one stopped the woman, as she approached Kim. 
“She went in between Kim and her publicist and started dumping the bag on Kim’s head and shoulders,” the staffer recounted. 
Only a small amount of the powder actually touched the reality star, landing on her head and shoulders. 
Navajo Nation looks for Grand Canyon Development 
FLAGSTAFF, Ariz. — Gen­erations of Navajo families have grazed livestock on a remote but spectacular mesa that overlooks the con­fluence of the Colorado and Little Colorado rivers. This is the East Rim of the majes­tic Grand Canyon — the last with no development. 
But ancestral tradition and the tranquility of the landscape could be subject to change if the Navajo gov­ernment’s plans are realized for a resort and aerial tram­way that would ferry tour­ists from cliff tops to water’s edge. 
The vast 27,000 square-mile Navajo reservation abuts Grand Canyon Na­tional Park, and tribal lead­ers say they’re losing out on tourist dollars and jobs for their people by leaving the land undeveloped. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Campus Ministries will host Notre Dame Encounter #113 this weekend. Come to­gether to examine your faith and commitment to follow Christ. Submit your appli­cation by tonight. 
Stop by the LaFortune Ballroom today from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. to participte in a blood drive hosted by Sorin College. All participants will be entered in a drawing to win an iPad 2. Register at http://bit.ly/SORIN. 
The ND German Club will be hosting its annual Sound of Music Sing-Along tonight in Washington Hall from 7-10 p.m. The club invites you to dress in costume and enjoy the classic musical for free. 
There will be a panel dis­cussion entitled “Partners  in Mission: Working side by side with the Congregation” from 8 to 9:30 p.m. tonight in Geddes Hall/ Center for Socials Concerns. This lec­ture is part of  Holy Cross Week. 
Tuesday, J. Christopher Love, the Latham Family Career Development Profes­sor of Chemical Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, will present a seminar discussing single-cell bioanalytic processes complex cellular systems from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall. 
Tuesday at 5:15 p.m. Fa­ther Peter McCormick will be presiding a senior class Mass at the Basilica of Sa­cred Heart. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY’S STAFF  
News  Sports  
Kristen Durbin  Brian Hartnett  
Nicole Michels  Vicky Jacobsen  
Kaitlyn Rabach  Matthew  
Graphics  DeFranks  
Dan Azic  Scene  
Photo  Kevin Noonan  
Kirby McKenna  Viewpoint  

HIGH 48 LOW 32 

HIGH 63 LOW 54 
HIGH 66 LOW 37 

HIGH 50 LOW 34 
HIGH 55 LOW 45 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
Meghan Thomassen 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 













Week educates campus about Haiti 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
This week, several Notre Dame campus organizations will hold a variety of events in support of Haiti Awareness Week and the work the Uni­versity does in the poverty-stricken Caribbean nation. 
Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Haiti Working Group, Friends of the Or­phans, the Notre Dame Haiti Program, ND Fighting NTDs and ND-8, Haiti Awareness Week will feature cultural events, lectures on devel­opment and a conference focused on the country’s unique issues. 
Senior Megan Stoffer, leader of the Haiti Working Group, said this week allows all Haiti-focused campus groups to collaborate and share the work they do with each other. 
“This week, ND Fighting NTDs is having a TOMS shoe giveaway, and Friends of the Orphans is having sign-ups for a 24-hour fast next week to benefit an orphanage,” she said. 
ND-8, the student orga­nization that works toward achieving the Millennium Development goals, will help promote greater understand­ing about microfinance and the tourism industry in Haiti, Stoffer said. 
The Kellogg Institute’s Haiti Working Group is also collaborating with the other groups on campus to sponsor lecturers and other events throughout the week, Stoffer said. 
She said the week’s most important event is Saturday’s Haiti Working Group Confer­ence, titled “Transforming Dialogue into Action: Pas­sion with a Purpose in Haiti.” The conference will feature perspectives from Catholic Relief Services representa­tives, InterVol and the Notre Dame Haiti Program, among others. 


“The Haiti [Working Group] Conference is bring­ing together a bunch of Mid­western colleges with Haiti groups, and there will be a lecture from a doctor who goes to Haiti and discussion [about it],” she said. “There will be a panel discussion geared towards how students can be effective with the aid and development they get in­volved in.” 
Senior Tania Mathurin, a member of the Haiti Working Group, said she thinks this week is an excellent way to educate Notre Dame students about the ongoing issues and problems in Haiti. 
“I’m actually Haitian, and I heard about the Haiti Working Group after being abroad,” she said. “I got in­terested in some of the things they were doing and think it is a great way to show the culture and teach students more about Haiti.” 
Mathurin said she is very excited about the conference because it presents an oppor­tunity to educate the public about development and aid in Haiti, as well as elements of Haitian culture, including a concert by the Chicago-based Haitian group D-Lux. 
“This is a great way not only to learn but also to learn more about effective ways to do development and aid,” she said. “I’m also really looking forward to the Haitian band that’s playing at the confer­ence. It will be different and exciting. 
Contact anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 




Saint Mary’s welcomes prospective students 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Sunday’s welcoming South Bend weather warmly greeted a new crop of prospective students visiting campus for the “Meet Me at the Avenue” event at Saint Mary’s. 
The annual, invitation-only event showcased Saint Mary’s and its campus to women who have been accepted to the College, but may or may not have made the official decision to attend, junior Meghan Feasel said. 
Feasel, a student worker in the Alumnae Relations Office and an admissions office volun­teer, served as a tour guide for the event, which hosted approxi­mately 600 admitted students and family members. 
“As a student who volunteers to lead tours, I take it upon myself to make the incoming students love Saint Mary’s as much as I do,” Feasel said. “This event is a great way to provide ample information to the students and their parents.” 
Feasel said prospective stu­dents were encouraged to ask tour guides any questions they had about the College. 
“This year, there was a ‘green card’ system, so guests were able 
Pub 
continued from page 1 
pus that would serve as a place for students and faculty to meet in an informal setting,” McCormick said. “That was something that had been a hope of ours, as a way to try to build up a community of learn­ing here on campus and to pro­vide ways for students and faculty members to come together and get to know each other in a more ho­listic way.” 
Senior Malcolm Phelan, a mem­ber of the Dean’s Fellows and co­ordinator of the Student Pub, said a University alumna developed the idea when she was an under­graduate. Phelan said Assistant Dean Joe 


“I would love to see 
Stanfiel lat­er took an it become a part of interest in Notre Dame culture, to the Student engage the intellect and Pub and stimulate conversation approached with professors and 
student 

other students outside 
govern-

the classroom.” 
ment lead­ers with the 

Neal Ravindra 
idea. “[The Academic Affairs Director 
St udent Pub] allows students and profes­sors to relate on a different level, a much more fulfilling level for both parties involved,” Phelan said. 
Ravindra said the Student Pub is an opportunity to discuss various issues and promote intellectual en­gagement outside the classroom. 
“[Participants] would be stand­ing or walking around, discussing whatever issue of the times they want to discuss,” he said. 
The College and student govern­ment held a pilot run of the Student Pub on Friday in the Hospitality Room of South Dining Hall, Ra­vindra said. He said the event fea­tured free snacks, coffee and soda, as well as alcoholic beverages for purchase. 
“In my group, we discussed education reform, healthcare re­form, the HHS mandate and also to write down their questions and hand it to their tour guides to an­swer,” she said. “This eliminates the ‘I don’t feel comfortable’ is­sue of asking questions in front of parents.” 

In addition to campus tours, prospective students learned more about each other and the College through icebreaker activi­ties, a panel discussion on student life at Saint Mary’s and a club and activity fair in the first floor of the Student Center, Feasel said. 
“In the morning, the groups participate in icebreakers as a way to introduce themselves,” Feasel said. “Team building exer­cises are also used to help the girls get to know the rest of the group, since they may be attending Saint Mary’s together next year.” 
Feasel said the variety of activi­ties leads some students to spend much of the day exploring campus with their families. 
“There are so many things you can do during ‘Meet Me at the Av­enue,’” she said. “Girls can set up a First Source Bank account, or they talk to professors in their in­tended majors. They can even see the dorms.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at            jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
just general Notre Dame stuff, like what Notre Dame students care about or are interested in,” Ravin­dra said. “There would be maybe a professor sitting at a table and then students would come up to them and introduce themselves and conversation would go from there.” 
Ravindra said he thought the pi­lot run went “wonderfully.” 
“I would love to see it become a part of Notre Dame culture, to engage the intellect and stimulate conversation with professors and other students outside the class­room,” he said. “And so it’s just one more venue for students to jump on that opportunity.” 
Phelan said he foresees the Student Pub becoming a popular 
event and, eventu­ally, a tradition. 
“Hopefully it’s something that will go on and the demand is here,” he said. “Basically the [first] event went really well. We ended up hav­ing 50 people come through.” 
Although the Student Pub is cur­rently open only to professors from the College of Arts and Letters, Ravin­dra said he hopes participation will 

expand in the future. He said the coordinators are in the process of developing a permanent name for the pub. 
The coordinators plan to adver­tise the Student Pub more in the future, Phelan said. 
“We’re going to up the scale a little bit, since the first one went so well, and hopefully we get to the point where it’s kind of standing-room only,” he said. 
Ravindra said he is excited about the ongoing development of the pub. 
“I think it’s a wonderful oppor­tunity for students,” he said. “It’s still developing, but I think it shows wonderful promise for the future.” 

Contact Marisa Iati at                 miati@nd.edu 




Laundry 
continued from page 1 
of implementing such a system at Notre Dame. 
“[Cockerham] was surprised to find that Food Services was already considering such a system,” Zheng said. “With budgetary approval, Prentkowski said it would be in­stalled by 2012.” 
Although LaundryView wasn’t fully approved until this term, Zheng said the launch could not have been finalized without the efforts of Cock­erham and his team. 
Student body vice president Brett Rocheleau said LaundryView will solve a problem many students face in their dorms. 

“Many times, students find them­selves walking down to the laundry room to find out there is a line or all of the machines are in use,” Ro­cheleau said. “This invention allows people to see what machines are available from the comfort of their room or while walking back from class.” 
Rocheleau said the biggest ob­stacle impeding the site’s success at Notre Dame is informing the cam­pus to promote widespread use. 
“Once the word is out there, though, I anticipate that students will use this every time before they do laundry,” Rocheleau said. 
LaundryView for Notre Dame’s campus can now be accessed at www.laundryview.com/notredame. 
Contact Carolina wilson at cwilso16@nd.edu 


Marathon 
continued from page 1 
juries last year,” Green said. “Over fall break, we made this appeal and presented to them, focusing on how the race has become something on Notre Dame bucket lists, and such a big tradition.” 
Green said the Holy Half team was prepared to give medi­cal attention to runners at any point during the race, but the cool, cloudy weather minimized medical emergencies. 
“This year, we partnered with the medical team from the Sun­burst Marathon (a local mara­thon event), that way we’d have ambulances and a medical tent, all the necessary precautions,” Green said.  “We were so lucky with the weather this year.” 
Sophomore participant Vin­cent Burns said this year’s weather made for a more enjoy­able race experience. 
“I think that the weather this year made it tremendously more fun,” he said. “I wasn’t worried that I was going to faint, where­as last year people were falling left and right.” 
Burns said he also enjoyed the new course designed by this year’s event planners. 
“I really liked the course this year,” Burns said.  “It was basi­cally the reverse of the course they had last year and it made for a much more enjoyable race … because the lakes were to­wards the end instead of run­ning around the edge of cam­pus [at the end of the race].” 
The new course design treat­ed racers to a view of the golden dome as they ran down Notre Dame Ave., finishing on Irish Green. 
Green said the 13.1-mile course is popular because it is run entirely on Notre Dame’s campus. In addition to orga­nizing the event, Green ran the race the last two years, giving her unique insight into the ex­perience. 
“The whole time I was run­ning I could see when we did a good job marking this, or that that spot was clear, I can follow that,” Green said.  “I’m not sure how big [this race] can get be­cause it’s all on campus, and it depends on the course’s capac­ity.” 


University administration capped the race at 1,000 rac­ers, but allowed the organizers to open the waiting list because so that was promising,” Kreipke around 200 people indicated said.  “But right towards the late interest in participating, end, I was running on the edge Green said. of the sidewalk to try to get 


She said the event is unique the shortest line when my foot because it attracts both experi-slipped off and I sprained my enced racers and more casual ankle.” competitors. Kreipke said he was lucky 
“It’s tricky that there are all enough to be about 600 meters these alumni coming in and from the finish and finished the 
it  might  be  race on adren­ 
their  first  aline.  
[half]  mara­ “At  the end  
thon  …  right  I wasn’t abso­ 
next to grad­uate students  “The last three miles  lutely exhaust­ed. I still had  
who  have  were the hardest.  At  a little gas left  
been training  10 miles it was kind of  in  the  case,”  
really hard,” Green said. G r a d u a t e  hard, but I kept going and didn’t stop.”  Kreipke said. “It was a re­ally fun course  
student Ty­ler Kreipke, who won this  Erin Hanratty sophomore  and really nice to get to run around cam­ 
year’s  Holy  pus.”  
Half  with  a  Sophomore  
time  of  76  Erin Hanratty  
minutes, said  said  she  en- 
he  used  the  joyed  the  on- 

race as an indication of his fit-campus race and the challenge ness level as he prepares for it provided.  She said the train-the upcoming Indianapolis Half ing plan provided by the Holy Marathon and Chicago Mara-Half organizers prepared her thon. well for the race. 
“This race was [an opportu-“Everyone hits a wall at ten nity] to go out and gauge where miles, apparently, and so did I,” my fitness level was at, and to Hanratty said.  “The last three get into a competitive race to miles were the hardest. At 10 prepare and see where I’m at miles it was kind of hard, but I going into the Indianapolis Half kept going and didn’t stop.” Marathon,” he said. Looking ahead to next year, 
Kreipke said he planned to Green said she wants to build start with the lead pack of run-on the momentum created by ners and play the rest of the this year’s raffle, expanding the race by ear. event to include a weekend for 
“I started out with a few the alumni interested in attend-people at the front of the race ing. 
— about three or four when we Green said the event’s capac­started off — and just hung with ity to strengthen Notre Dame’s them,” Kreipke said. “At about connection with the surround-four or five miles, the group ing community is one of the im­started to spread out and then portant features of the race. 
[I] was kind of in no-man’s land “The Holy Half Marathon di­and settled into my own pace.” rectly engages part of the Uni-
Kreipke said he was happy versity’s mission: to engage with his first-place perfor-the greater South Bend area,” mance, despite an in-race in-Green said. jury. 
“My fitness was better than Contact Nicole Michels at          I expected to see at this point, nmichels@nd.edu 


Obama chastises North Korea 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea — In a direct challenge to North Ko­rean leaders, President Barack Obama implored them “to have the courage to pursue peace” while warning of the wrath of the world if they don’t. Failure, he said Monday, would mean a future without dignity, respect or hope for its people. 
Obama stood by his pledge for a globe without nuclear weapons, declaring flatly that the United States has more than it needs and can cut its arsenal without weakening its security or that of its allies. That assessment put him on a collision course with congres­sional Republicans who say any significant cuts would un­dermine the U.S. ability to de­ter aggression. 

As Obama spoke of peace in the midst of an international nuclear summit, tensions rose in the Korean peninsula. Seoul warned it might shoot down a expected to press for help in North Korean rocket carrying dealing with North Korea. a satellite if it violates South Following their meeting, Korean territory. The United Obama and Medvedev ac-States maintains the launch knowledged continued ten-amounts to a test of North Ko-sions between their countries rea’s rocketry. on key issues, including Syria 
In unusually personal terms, and missile defense. Obama said he spoke of his Still, Obama aimed his most wish for further nuclear re-stern remarks to North Korea’s ductions as the president of the leaders, saying the interna­only nation ever to use nucle-tionally isolated country needs ar weapons, as a commander to change its ways because whose country’s nuclear codes continuing down the same are never far from his side, and path will lead to “more broken as a protective father eager to dreams” and “more isolation.” erase the threat of nuclear an-His blunt remarks came a day nihilation. after he visited the Demilita-
Obama also met on the side-rized Zone between North and lines of the summit with outgo-South Korea and described the ing Russian President Dmitry experience as akin to witness-Medvedev. Later he planned to ing a “time warp” of despair. sit down with Chinese Presi-“By now it should be clear,” dent Hu Jintao, whom he was he said. “Your provocations 


Two Miss. students shot over weekend 
Associated Press 
STARKVILLE, Miss. — Mis­sissippi Gov. Phil Bryant on Sunday expressed his sorrow at the shooting deaths of two col­lege students in the state over the weekend. 
Late Saturday, 21-year-old John Sanderson of Madison, Miss., was shot to death in a Mississippi State University dormitory, though the killing appears to be isolated, accord­ing to university officials. 
Early Sunday, a 19-year-old freshman at Jackson State Uni­versity died from being shot in the face and killed at an off-campus apartment pool party in Jackson. Police identified the victim as Nolan Ryan Hender­son III of Atlanta. 
Bryant said in a statement that he and his wife Deborah were “saddened to learn that Mississippi lost two college stu­dents this weekend.” He said he’s spoken with university leaders and instructed the state public safety commissioner to assist in the investigations. 
“Those perpetuating these crimes will be apprehended and held accountable,” he said. “Mississippi does not take these instances lightly, and rest assured, we will continue to provide a safe learning envi­ronment for students at all our Mississippi College and Univer­sity campuses.” 
At Mississippi State, universi­ty president Mark Keenum said in a statement on the school’s website Sunday that the killing of Sanderson was the first time a student had been shot on the campus. Keenum said officials could reveal few other details because of the ongoing investi­gation. 
University spokeswoman Maridith Geuder said police re­ceived a call about the shooting at Evans Hall around 10 p.m. Saturday. Police were on the scene within a minute. Sand­erson was taken to Oktibbeha County Hospital, where he died. 
Three male suspects fled the building in a blue Crown Vic­toria, officials said. No arrests had been made Sunday. 
Shortly after the shooting, the university began sending a series of text message alerts to students. Police officers stepped up patrols to make sure the campus was safe, Kee­num said. 
The four-story Evans Hall holds about 300 male students and is located on the north side of campus. The campus of about 20,000 students is locat­ed in a rural area in the north­eastern part of the state, about 125 miles northeast of Jackson. 

and pursuit of nuclear weap­ons have not achieved the security you seek, they have undermined it. Instead of the dignity you desire, you are more isolated.” 
Speaking at Hankuk Uni­versity, Obama said that the international community has made progress in reducing the threat of nuclear material but says “we’re under no illu­sions.” 
“Even as we have more work to do, we can already say with confidence that we have more nuclear weapons than we need,” he said. “I firmly believe that we can ensure the securi­ty of the United States and our allies, maintain a strong de­terrent against any threat, and still pursue further reductions in our nuclear arsenal.” 


Concert 
continued from page 1 

we had a really positive re­sponse from students once we announced the band se­lection, and that definitely showed at the concert,” she said. “A lot of people came to the show dressed in 90s clothes, and … students seemed to really embrace the idea of making it an all-day event leading up to the concert.” 
Junior Kat Wilson said the band’s performance of songs like “Jumper” and “Semi-Charmed Life” evoked nos­talgic feelings. 
“It brought me back to the good old days of Pokemon and ‘All That,’” she said. 
Junior Brynne Miller said she enjoyed hearing Third Eye Blind play its most pop­ular songs, but she also ap­preciated its tributes to cur­rent popular artists. 
“I really enjoyed it when [Third Eye Blind] did the Calvin Harris cover,” Miller said. 
Sophomore Bill Leigh said he thought the band gave a crowd-pleasing performance and he said he appreciated its extension of gratitude to the audience. 
“I thought it was really good, and I especially like when bands thank their fan base,” Leigh said. “They definitely did that and did a good job playing. My favor­ite song they performed was ‘Never Let You Go.’” 
Junior Betsy McGovern said she and her friends woke up at 5:30 a.m. Wednesday to make the trek to LaFor­tune to purchase tickets. 
“It was definitely worth waking up early for the tick­ets,” she said. “The whole concert was really fun, but it was especially awesome when they played ‘Jumper’ and ‘Semi-Charmed Life’ be­cause everyone went crazy.” 
Junior Eric Stumpf said Third Eye Blind’s perfor­mance demonstrated the band’s eagerness to perform for Notre Dame students. 
“They did an exception­ally great job getting the crowd involved and creating a fun concert atmosphere,” he said.Stumpf, a longtime Third Eye Blind fan, said the band provided a broad sam­pling of their repertoire dur­ing the concert. 
“I’ve wanted to see Third Eye Blind for a very long time and was so glad I got to before they stopped tour­ing,” he said. “I think they did a good job integrating their newer, less well-known songs with their bigger hits.” 
Though the concert was an enjoyable experience over­all, Stumpf said he had one complaint about its venue. 
“The only thing I can com­plain about is how ungodly awful the acoustics of Ste-pan are,” he said. “If you didn’t know the lyrics to the songs before the concert, you would have thought the singer was speaking gibber­ish.” 
Keating said SUB has worked with the same con­cert production company for roughly 15 years, but the company’s owner told Keat­ing this year’s concert was the biggest production it has put on at Notre Dame. 
“Everything, including the lights, speakers and even the stage, were bigger and more elaborate than in previous years, and all of that played into making the show such a success,” Keating said. 

Contact Kristen Durbin     kdurbin@nd.edu 





Cheney transplant sparks debate 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Doctors say it is unlikely that former Vice President Dick Cheney got special treatment when he was given a new heart at age 71 that thousands of young­er people also were in line to receive. 
Still, his case reopens de­bate about whether rules should be changed to favor youth over age in giving out scarce organs. As it stands now, time on the waiting list, medical need and where you live determine the odds of scoring a new heart — not how many years you’ll live to make use of it. 
“The ethical issues are not that he had a transplant, but who didn’t?” Dr. Eric Topol, a cardiologist at Scripps Health in La Jolla, Calif., wrote on Twitter. 
Cheney received the trans­plant Saturday at Inova Fair­fax Hospital in Falls Church, Va., the same place where he received an implanted heart pump that has kept him alive since July 2010. It appears he went on the transplant wait list around that time, 20 months ago. 
He had severe congestive heart failure and had suf­fered five heart attacks over the past 25 years. Cheney has had countless proce­dures to keep him going — bypasses, artery-opening angioplasty, pacemakers and surgery on his legs. Yet he must have had a healthy liver and kidneys to quali­fy for a new heart, doctors said. 
“We have done several patients hovering around age 70” although that’s about “the upper limit” for a transplant, said Dr. Mari-ell Jessup, a University of Pennsylvania heart failure specialist and American Heart Association spokes­woman. “The fact he waited such a long time shows he didn’t get any favors.” 

More than 3,100 Ameri­cans are waiting now for a new heart, and about 330 die each year before one be­comes available. When one does, doctors check to see who is a good match and in highest medical need. The heart is offered locally, then regionally and finally nationally until a match is made. 
“You can’t leapfrog the system,” said Dr. Allen Tay­lor, cardiology chief at Med-Star Georgetown University Hospital. “It’s a very regi­mented and fair process and heavily policed.” 
Jessup and Taylor spoke Sunday from the American College of Cardiology’s an­nual conference in Chicago, where Cheney’s treatment was a hot topic. 
Patients can get on more than one transplant list if they can afford the medical tests that each center re­quires to ensure eligibility, and can afford to fly there on short notice if an organ becomes available. For ex­ample, the late Apple chief Steve Jobs was on a trans­plant list in Tennessee and received a new liver at a hospital there in 2009 even though he lived in Califor­nia. 
That’s not done nearly as often with hearts as it is for livers or kidneys, said Dr. Samer Najjar, heart transplant chief at MedStar Washington Hospital Cen­ter. Each transplant center decides for itself how old a patient it will accept, he said. 
“Most centers wouldn’t put somebody on” at Cheney’s age, said University of Penn­sylvania bioethicist Art Ca-plan, who has testified be­fore many panels on organ sharing issues. 
“I’ve been arguing for a long time that the system should pay more attention to age because you’ll get a better return on the gift” because younger people are more likely to live longer with a donor organ, Caplan said. 
News reports detail oth­er successful heart trans­plants in septuagenarians. 
In Canada, a man de­scribed as a home builder and philanthropist received a heart transplant when he was 79 at the University Hospital in Edmonton, Al­berta, Canada. He lived for more than a decade with the organ, dying in 2010 at age 90. 
In Texas, a 75-year-old re­tired veterinarian received a heart last year from a 61-year-old donor, but he had been a marathon run­ner and was presumably healthier than many of his peers. 
Cheney will have to take daily medicines to prevent rejection of his new heart and go through rehabilita­tion to walk and return to normal living. He was for­mer President George W. Bush’s vice president for eight years, from 2001 until 2009. 



Nation’s churches stand in solidarity with Martin 


Associated Press 
EATONVILLE, Fla. — Wear­ing hooded sweatshirts similar to the one that Trayvon Martin wore on the night he was killed, many preachers and worshippers echoed calls for justice Sunday in the shooting death of an unarmed black teenager in Florida last month. 
The one-month anniversary of Martin’s death is Monday. He was shot while wearing a “hoodie” as he walked home on a rainy night in a gated community. The neigh­borhood watch volunteer who shot him, 28-year-old George Zimmer­man, is the son of a white father and Hispanic mother, and the de­mands to charge him in Martin’s slaying have grown ever louder. He had called police to report the hooded figure as suspicious; the 17-year-old Martin was carrying a bag of Skittles and a can of iced tea, talking to his girlfriend on his cellphone. 
In African-American and other religious centers from Florida to Atlanta, New York and Chicago, messages from pulpits couldn’t help but touch on a seemingly avoidable tragedy that continues to be rife with more questions than answers. But while the call continued for the arrest of Zim­merman, there were also pleas to use the incident to spark a larger movement. 
“How do we turn pain into pow­er?” the Rev. Jesse Jackson asked a standing-room only congrega­tion of hundreds while preaching at Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church in Eatonville, Fla., about 20 miles from the site of the San­ford shooting. “How do we go from a moment to a movement that cur­ries favor?” 
Jackson preached a sermon en­titled “The Substance of Things Hoped For.” He called for Mar­tin’s “martyr” death to be used as an opportunity to revive the Civil Rights Commission and draw at­tention to long-standing issues. Very young children and teens sat in the choir behind him. 
“The blood of the innocent has power,” Jackson said to shouts of “Amen” and loud clapping. 
Jackson invoked the names of Emmett Till, the 14-year-old boy bludgeoned and shot to death in Mississippi in 1955 for supposedly whistling at a white woman, and slain civil rights figures Medgar Evans and Martin Luther King, Jr. 
“There’s power in the blood of Emmett Till! There’s power in in the blood of Medgar Evers! There’s power in the blood of Dr. King!” declared the 70-year-old Jackson, who marched with King. 

Jackson made a direct plea to change the “Stand Your Ground” self-defense law that many believe authorities in Florida used to avoid arresting him. 
Amid the outcry over the lack of charges against Zimmerman, the Sanford police chief and state’s attorney in the case have both stepped aside. The U.S. Justice Department has opened a civil rights probe into the shooting, and a grand jury is scheduled to meet April 10 to consider evidence in the case. 
Zimmerman’s attorney has said he believes the case falls under Florida’s stand-your-ground law, which dictates that a person has the right to stand his or her ground and “meet force with force” if at­tacked. Attorney Craig Sonner has said Zimmerman is not a racist. 
After Jackson’s sermon, congre­gants said the civil rights activist’s message resonated. 
“This kind of activism never stopped in the church, that’s what they do for us in the black com­munity,” said 34-year-old Nacia Bradley of Orlando. “That’s what they’re here to do.” 
Black churches have long served as catalysts for change and were instrumental during the civil rights era. 
“The activism (in the church) is bigger and better than ever,” said Kenneth Byers, 47, of Orlando. “Everything Rev. Jackson said was right on time.” 
At Chicago’s St. Sabina Catholic Church, a predominantly black congregation, the Rev. Michael Pfleger wore the hood of his robe over his head while celebrating Mass. Pfleger, who is white, has long spoken out against violence. 
During Mass, one congregant held a sign reading, “We are all Trayvon Martin.” 
In New York City, Middle Col­legiate Church pastor Jacqueline Lewis said the church must as­sume both a spiritual and political role to end “the epidemic” of rac­ism. She encouraged her congre­gants to send packages of Skittles to Sanford police, sign an online petition and attend an April con­ference on building multiracial congregations. 
It’s that sense of activism that resonated with Michael Ambro­sini, who left the service wear­ing a gray hooded sweatshirt. He said he attends the church in part because “such violence dictates strong political action, and this church takes action.” 
In the nation’s capital, the pas­tors of Reid Temple AME in Glenn Dale, Md. and Metropolitan AME in downtown Washington, both wore hoodies. 


Scholars agree: US still on top 
Associated PRess 
NEW YORK — Anyone wor­ried about an erosion of Ameri­ca’s global status might consid­er this modest fact: Facebook is the dominant social network in Mongolia. 
Along with its pervasive so­cial media, the United States leads in myriad other ways — from the allure of its movies and music to the reach of its military. It’s tough to match a nation that deploys troops to Australia and central Africa, propels Beyonce to global star­dom, and produced the Twitter-style technologies that abetted the Arab Spring. 
“American entrepreneurs are defining the digital age,” said Harald Leibrecht, the German government’s coordinator for 
U.S. relations. “And when look­ing for the ‘next big thing,’ we very much expect it to come from over the Atlantic as well.” 
So what’s with all the talk about America in decline? There seems to be a forest’s worth of recent books raising that possibility, with gloomy titles such as “That Used to be Us.” Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney sug­gested that President Barack Obama considers the U.S. “just another nation.” 
Abroad, foreign policy ex­perts are following this discus­sion with a mix of bemusement and concern. A dozen of them, in nine countries on five con­tinents, shared their thoughts with The Associated Press — agreeing that the U.S. stands alone as a global superpower, yet perceiving an array of weak­nesses that could undermine its stature as numerous emerging powers seek a bigger role on the world stage. 
Cited most often: the partisan political gridlock in Washing­ton — viewed as hindering ef­forts to tackle other long-term problems. 
“Some U.S. vulnerabilities are quite obvious,” said Dmi­tri Trenin, a Russian expert on diplomatic and security policy, in an e-mail from Moscow. “The issue of debt ... too loose finan­cial regulation, social inequali­ty which is punishing America’s middle class.” 
Trenin, director of the Carn­egie Moscow Center, predicted the U.S. will nonetheless re­main pre-eminent for decades, yet questioned the ability of America’s political elite to in­terpret and respond wisely to global developments. 
“This is not always impres­sive, and some comments made on the election stump are downright depressing,” he said. 
Narushige Michishita, a pro­fessor at Tokyo’s National Grad­uate Institute for Policy Studies and adviser to Japan’s govern­ment on security issues, views the debate in the U.S. over its global stature as a sign of inse­curity. He says it has prompted to Japan to look to other strate­gic partners to bolster its posi­tion in Asia. 
“It is clear in relative terms that the U.S. is starting to de­cline in comparison with Chi­na,” said Michishita. “As U.S. commitment and influence starts to decline ... it is inevi­table China will expand.” 



Pope urges Mexicans to fight with faith 
Associated Press 
SILAO, Mexico — Pope Benedict XVI urged Mexicans to wield their faith against drug violence, poverty and other ills, celebrating Sunday Mass before a sea of hushed worshippers in a visit that has warmed many Mexicans to a pontiff they often saw as austere. 
Many in the crowd said they were gratified by Benedict’s recognition of their country’s problems and said they felt reinvigorated in what they described as a daily struggle against criminality, corrup­tion and economic hardship. 
The pope delivered the mes­sage to an estimated 350,000 people against the backdrop of the Christ the King monu­ment, one of the most im­portant symbols of Mexican Christianity. The statue re­calls a 1920s Roman Catholic uprising against the anti-cler­ical laws that forbade public worship services such as the one Benedict celebrated. 
“We pray for him to help us, that there be no more violence in the country,” said Lorena Diaz, 50, who owns a jeans factory in nearby Leon. “We pray that he gives us peace.” 
With his first visit to Mexi­co, the pontiff appeared to lay to rest doubts that he was a distant, cold pope who could never compare to the charis­ma and personal connection that his predecessor, John Paul II, forged over his five visits to Mexico. Many Mexi­cans said they were surprised by their depth of feeling for Benedict. 
On Sunday, he charmed the crowd by donning a broad-brimmed Mexican sombrero. 

“Some young people rejected the pope, saying he has an an­gry face. But now they see him like a grandfather,” said Cris­tian Roberto Cerda Reynoso, 17, a seminarian from Leon. “I see the youth filled with ex­citement and enthusiasm.” 
He charmed them again lat­er Sunday when he was sere­naded by a mariachi band and presented with another som­brero at the entrance to the school where he was staying. 


“I’ve made a lot of trips, but I’ve never been welcomed with such enthusiasm,” Benedict told the wildly cheering crowd in off-the-cuff remarks. “Now I can understand why Pope John Paul II used to say, ‘I feel like I’m a Mexican pope.’” 
Esther Villegas, a 36-year­old cosmetics vendor, said Benedict’s image in Mexico has been changed greatly by the visit. 
“We saw a lot of happiness in his face. We are used to see­ing him with a harder appear­ance, but this time he looked happier, smiling,” Villegas said. “A lot of people didn’t care for him enough before, but now he has won us over.” 



Senators contest legality of asking for passwords 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — Two U.S. sena­tors are asking Attorney Gen­eral Eric Holder to investigate whether employers asking for Facebook passwords during job interviews are violating federal law, their offices an­nounced Sunday. 
Troubled by reports of the practice, Democratic Sens. Chuck Schumer of New York and Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut said they are call­ing on the Department of Jus­tice and the U.S. Equal Employ­ment Opportunity Commission to launch investigations. The senators are sending letters to the heads of the agencies. 
The Associated Press report­ed last week that some private and public agencies around the country are asking job seekers for their social media creden­tials. The practice has alarmed privacy advocates, but the le­gality of it remains murky. 
On Friday, Facebook warned employers not to ask job ap­plicants for their passwords to the site so they can poke around on their profiles. The company threatened legal ac­tion against applications that violate its long-standing policy against sharing passwords. 
A Facebook executive cau­tioned that if an employer dis­covers that a job applicant is a member of a protected group, the employer may be vulnera­ble to claims of discrimination if it doesn’t hire that person. 
Personal information such as gender, race, religion and age are often displayed on a Face­book profile — all details that are protected by federal em­ployment law. 
“We don’t think employers should be asking prospective employees to provide their passwords because we don’t think it’s the right thing to do. While we do not have any immediate plans to take le­gal action against any specific employers, we look forward to engaging with policy makers and other stakeholders, to help better safeguard the privacy of our users,” Facebook said in a statement. 
Not sharing passwords is a basic tenet of online conduct. Aside from the privacy con­cerns, Facebook considers the practice a security risk. 
“In an age where more and more of our personal informa­tion — and our private social interactions — are online, it is vital that all individuals be allowed to determine for themselves what personal in­formation they want to make public and protect personal information from their would-be employers. This is espe­cially important during the job-seeking process, when all the power is on one side of the fence,” Schumer said in a statement. 
Specifically, the senators want to know if this practice violates the Stored Communi­cations Act or the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. Those two acts, respectively, prohib­it intentional access to elec­tronic information without authorization and intentional access to a computer without authorization to obtain infor­mation. 


French candidates analyze shootings 

Associated Press 

PARIS — A week that terri­fied France may be just what Nicolas Sarkozy, an underdog in the race for presidential elections in April and May, needs to win a second term. 
Or not. 

The conservative president is vaunting his tough-on-crime credentials, but polls show vot­ers still think jobs are what matters most. And with unem­ployment near 10 percent after a half-decade under Sarkozy, most still favor Socialist Fran­cois Hollande. 
Sarkozy’s campaign strate­gists are tapping the fear that gripped many in the country last week, after a radical Mus­lim Frenchman gunned down children and a rabbi at a Jew­ish school. Police tracked down Mohamed Merah two days lat­er and killed him as he jumped out a window, guns blazing. 
With four weeks left before voting begins, the events dis­rupted the presidential cam­paign and revived concerns about religious extremist-in­spired terrorism. And Sarkozy painted himself as France’s savior. 
“I assume responsibility for all decisions that led to the de­finitive neutralization of this monstrous killer,” Sarkozy said at a campaign rally Saturday, doing nothing to conceal his pride. 
He dismissed suggestions that the gunman could have been a victim of circumstance, a poor, minority youth from neglected housing projects re­jected by the French state but embraced by fundamentalists. 
“No, France is not guilty. No, there is not a climate in France that can explain these crimes, because these crimes are inex­plicable and inexcusable,” he said. 
He may be winning over some voters from the anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim far right. But France’s Muslims, who number some 5 million, fear a backlash, and Sarkozy may be alienating others with his violent language and fear-mongering. 
Hollande, a moderate and inoffensive leftist who wants to raise taxes on the rich, re­mains at the top of polls re­leased in recent days — even though security is one of his weak points. 
Hollande asked why the gun­man wasn’t arrested despite being on a counterterrorism watch-list. On a campaign stop Sunday in Corsica, he suggest­ed Sarkozy was to blame for unusually high murder rates there in recent years. France next president must “assure everyone’s tranquility, but at the same time there are all the other emergencies” such as income inequality, unemploy­ment and pensions, Hollande said. 
From early on in his career, Sarkozy styled himself as a crime-fighter and protector of the French. As mayor of a well-off Paris suburb in 1993, he helped negotiate with a hostage-taker strapped with explosives in a nursery school. Elite police killed the kidnap­per and Sarkozy helped carry children to safety. 
Sarkozy’s highest point of national popularity came when he was interior minister, in charge of police and security. 




Hunger Games takes box office by storm 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — “The Hun­ger Games” has filled fan ap­petites with a $155 million opening weekend that puts it near the top of the domestic record book. 
The huge haul marks the third-best debut ever in terms of revenue, behind the $169.2 million opening for last year’s “Harry Potter” finale and the $158.4 million opening of 2008’s “The Dark Knight.” 
“Harry Potter” and “Bat­man” were well-established franchises. “The Hunger Games” set a revenue record for a non-sequel, taking in more than twice what the first “Twilight” movie did with its $69.6 million opening week­end. 
“This is the birth of a fran­chise. To launch in this fash­ion is mindboggling,” said Da­vid Spitz, head of distribution at Lionsgate, which now also owns the “Twilight” franchise after its purchase of Summit Entertainment. 
While it’s already a block­buster on its North Ameri­can home turf, “The Hunger Games” had a much slower start overseas. The film took in a modest $59.3 million in 67 markets, including Great Brit­ain, Germany, France, Russia and Australia. 

The “Harry Potter” finale took in a record $314 million overseas in its debut last sum­mer, and half a dozen other films have opened with more than $200 million outside the United States. 
Even “John Carter,” a dud domestically, managed to take in more than “The Hunger Games” overseas, launching with $70.6 million in 55 inter­national markets two week­ends ago. 
Still, “The Hunger Games” amassed a worldwide total of $214.3 million in just a few days. 
Domestically, it also was by far the biggest start for a film opening outside the busy sum­mer and holiday seasons. Ac­cording to Sunday studio es­timates, “The Hunger Games” came in nearly $40 million ahead of the previous March record-holder, 2010’s “Alice in Wonderland” at $116.1 mil­lion. 
“The Hunger Games” slid into the No. 3 spot on the do­mestic revenue chart ahead of “Spider-Man 3,” which opened with $151.1 million in 2007. Factoring in today’s higher tickets prices, “The Hunger Games” sold fewer tickets over opening weekend than “Spi-der-Man 3,” though. 


INSIDE COLUMN 


Snow over bros 
Why go to Notre Dame? Southern frat kids may be your answer. 
My experiences in life have led me to believe that sometimes, an ap­preciation of what is all around you comes only when you leave it be-Dan Brombach hind, step over the fence and test if News Writer the grass is, in fact, greener on the other side. 
At no time was this more apparent than during my spring break trip to Destin, Fla. 
Don’t get me wrong, Destin was beautiful and I had an amazing time, but the whole trip also served to squash any reservations I had about choosing to attend Notre Dame. 
I won’t lie — the thought of going to a southern school like Alabama or Florida and being able to enjoy blue skies and white sandy beaches almost year-round was certainly a tempting one. 
I also won’t deny that South Bend can be a dismal place to live in the long winter months, during which it has all the cheerful atmosphere and warm, enjoyable weather of a Sibe­rian work camp. 
Going to crowded dorm parties is sometimes the only way to get warm, provided you don’t mind the over­whelming smell of sweat, stale beer and social anxiety. 
All thoughts of weather aside, the reason why my decision to attend Notre Dame was so strongly validated came down to one thing: at Notre Dame, I don’t have to deal with south­ern frat boys. 
Frat stars infested seemingly every place we went on our vacation, exhib­iting behavior so consistently intoxi­cated, haughty and belligerent that it would have put even Charlie Sheen to shame. 
The amount of muscle shirts and snap-back hats per square-inch made most of the college students we encountered resemble the unholy off­spring of the “Jersey Shore” cast and a college lacrosse team. 
Most of you are probably familiar with the expression, “If I had a nickel for every time ‘blank’ happened, I’d be rich.” 
Well, I can confidently say that if I had earned a nickel for every time I heard someone say “bro,” “chill” or “pledge” during my trip, I might have made enough money to actually fit in with all the pretentious frat kids liv­ing off their parents’ trust funds. 
Flying out of Destin, I reflected on how much this glimpse into what my college experience could have been had made me appreciate the students who surround me everyday at Notre Dame. 
I won’t say that all students at southern universities are like the ones I encountered, and I’ve met my share of pretentious classmates, but I feel a connection with the students of Notre Dame that was noticeably absent from my interactions with stu­dents from other schools. 
Only by stepping over the fence into this radically different atmosphere did I gain an appreciation of how special the culture of mutual respect at Notre Dame truly is. 
Give me that over the beach any day. 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Greening graduation 
For the freshmen and sophomores thinking, “I can’t wait for spring break next year!” or the juniors that can’t wait to live it up as seniors in the fall, believe me when I tell Michelle Fuhrman you that it’s just around the Ask the corner. Greenman 
I’ll be hon­est; I’ve been somewhat in denial that I will be leaving my home under the dome. The reality of being awarded my diploma and being sent out into the real world slapped me in the face Wednesday when I attended the Graduation Fair. However, what got me excited and made me know I was leaving Notre Dame in a good place was seeing all the sustainability ini­tiatives on display from the university and their vendors. 
To preface this, I recently came across an article that highlighted Michigan Tech for using caps and gowns made from recycled water bottles. I thought this was a novel idea, but that got me wondering about Notre Dame’s graduation set-up. 
Clearly, not wanting to be outdone by a Michigan school, it inspired me to ask Donna Hodges, vice president of Oak Hall Cap and Gown, if her company had similar sustainable practices in place. She told me the gown I had just acquired is made of about 23 plastic water bottles that were extracted from landfills. Point Irish! Hearing this eased my competi­tive knee-jerk reaction at least for a moment.
 “Water bottles to gowns — how can that happen?” you may be asking yourself. Once the used bottles are collected, they are broken down in a process that forms fibers that are wo­ven together to create fabric.  For Oak Hill Cap and Gown, this process oc­curs entirely within the United States and creates domestic jobs. One Notre Dame graduation ceremony takes three full tractor-trailers of water bottles from landfills. The best part is that the recycling continues even after you wear it on graduation day. Post-ceremony there will be bins placed on campus for seniors to recycle their gowns, where they will be remade into furniture and carpet. Touchdown Irish! 

Next, I went to order my announce­ments and was thrilled to learn that Balfour, the company who prints the announcements, uses 50 percent recycled post-consumer cards and envelopes and 100 percent recycled materials for all of their packing sup­plies. Chris Barr, the representative from Balfour, told me all about how 10 years ago the quality of fine recycled material was not able to withstand the 30,000 pounds of pressure that is required to press the Notre Dame seal on to the paper.  Due to better tech­nology and knowledge, next year the company will be making announce­ments from 100 percent recycled fine paper,” Chris Barr, a Balfour repre­sentative, said. 
Class rings are another area where Balfour exhibits expertise in social responsibility by becoming the first class ring manufacturer to endorse No Dirty Gold’s “Golden Rules.” This policy encourages the mining indus­try to extract and manufacture gold under higher social, human rights and environmental standards.  These standards include responsible dis­posal of toxic wastes, safe mining practices and promoting social and environmental justice. Balfour also has a “No Dirty Diamond” Policy, and ensures that their diamonds come from conflict-free sources. 
As I walked away from the counter carrying my 23 recycled water bottle equivalent gown in a reusable shop­ping bag provided by the Notre Dame bookstore, I thought to myself Notre Dame if I have to graduate, at least I am doing it in a green way. It is not easy to do the background work to ensure that suppliers and vendors use sustainable practices, and I commend the university’s efforts for ensuring that our school is associated with companies that have high social and environmental standards. Even though I’m experiencing a mix of emo­tions as the big day comes near (only 8 weeks away!), I am proud to go to a university that lets me make a green choice. Maybe this whole graduation thing won’t be so bad after all. 
Have a question about the envi­ronment or how to go green in your personal life? Ask the GreenMan! Seriously. The GreenMan will be here every other week to answer your eco­related questions: email askthegreen­man@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Stand your ground? 
When news broke regarding the  2005, the law states that an individual  Unfortunately, an innocent teenager  
death of Trayvon Martin, a teenager  is not required to retreat when in  lost his life because an overzealous  
from Florida, the public was horri­ danger, and in many situations if one  neighborhood watch volunteer stereo­ 
fied. A neighborhood watch volunteer  were to claim they acted in self-de­ typed him.  
shot Martin on  fense, they can be exempt from arrest.  Furthermore, an article published  
a rainy night, The Daily Free  With such a public outcry sur­ by the BBC yesterday detailed that  
claiming he at-Press Staff  rounding the Martin case, a review of  police forces didn’t press charges  
tacked because  this law is definitely in order. While  against Zimmerman possibly because  
he felt he was in The Daily  being permitted to defend yourself in  he wanted to become an officer him- 
danger and had Free Press  a threatening situation is necessary,  self. Such a blatant bias toward the  
to defend him  holding no accountability for poten­ man who killed an innocent boy will  
self.  tially destructive actions will only  only hinder the judicial process, as  
According to an article published  promote abuse of the law.  well as tarnish the police force’s repu­ 
in The New York Times yesterday,  Another issue raised by the unfortu­ tation for keeping its jurisdiction safe.  
a grand jury is set to hear evidence  nate incident is how the police han- This situation should serve as a  
pertinent to the case next month, in  dled the case. Zimmerman allegedly  warning that attention must be paid  
addition to an investigation being  relayed information to police officers  to existing laws and police force  
conducted by the Justice Depart- saying that he suspected Martin was  conduct; perhaps after such a review  
ment. This time last week, a petition  “on drugs” and he was “just walking  careless incidents like these won’t  
boasting 500,000 signatures called  around, looking about.”  continue to frequent news headlines.  
for the volunteer in question, George  When he emerged from his car  
Zimmerman, to be prosecuted for his  toward Martin, a 911 operator warned  This article originally ran in the  
crime.  Zimmerman against following the  Mar. 21 version of The Daily Free  
The incident has drawn significant  teenager. In addition to such an am- Press, serving Boston University.  
criticism to the “Stand Your Ground”  biguous law regarding self-defense,  The views expressed in this column  
law, which is especially vague with  lenient gun laws in Florida have also  are those of the author and not  
regard to self-defense. Approved in  contributed to a rise in such incidents.  necessarily those of The Observer.  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We have so much time and so little to do. Strike that, reverse it.” 
Roald Dahl British author 
WEEKLY POLL 

What did you think of the 
Third Eye Blind concert? 
It was awesome! I went for Hoodie Allen I didn’t get a ticket Who’s Third Eye Blind? 

Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 



Monday, March 26, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
Between faith and reason 
Pope John Paul II called faith and reason the “two wings on which the human spirit rises to the contempla­tion of truth” in his encyclical “Fides et Ratio.” The Pope believes human be­ings come to know truth through a Dee Tian combination of faith and reason. Confessions The absence of of a Christian either one will Party Girl impair our ability to know ourselves, the world and God. The two, in fact, exist harmoniously. 
Aquinas also articulated a similar argument. Because the light of reason and the light of faith both come from God, there can be no contradiction between them. 
Or can there? 

Many of my philosophy and science courses have caused me to wonder about the relationship between faith and reason. Often, it seems the tension is now said to be between religion and science. 
I think it’s interesting that. as stu­dents we take many courses from dif­ferent disciplines, but we rarely try to synthesize what we learn from each. Many times, what we learn in these courses are actually contradictory. In ecology, we learn that sexual selection was the mechanism by which evolu­tion worked and that there is no truly altruistic act (depressing). In psychol­ogy, we learn that there are many rea­sons for our motivations and desires. 
In genetics and anthropology, we discuss the question of nature versus nurture — are we born a blank slate, or are our natures mostly genetically decided? In philosophy, we question Mackie’s Problem of Evil and the issues of free will and determinism. 
I walk out of these courses in­terested but slightly confused, and sometimes even concerned. What did all these things mean for my faith? My values? How I view the world? But like most busy college students, I dismiss these worries quickly in favor of party­ing, watching TV or doing homework. I didn’t have time to think about these things with my insane schedule of balancing friends, work and extracur­riculars. 
Unfortunately, this semester, I was forced to consider how my beliefs may conflict with the “truths” I was be­ing taught in class. I signed up for a seminar that explored the theological and philosophical impacts of Darwin’s evolution. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Humans vs. Zombies 
On it’s exterior, Humans vs. Zombies may have the appearance of a simple game of tag.  Looking further though, it goes much deeper than that. Humans vs. Zombies reflects humanity’s subconscious desire for a world in chaos, where their personal actions actually matter in the big picture. It fulfills the desire to beat all odds and be the champion of humanity — if you’re a human. If, on the other hand, you’re a zombie, it’s your opportunity to lose all known fears and go all-out, destroying whatever is left of order. 
As the human teams loses members to the zombie hoard, each individual becomes closer and closer to their team’s last hope. As players turn into zom­bies, they find themselves as part of a growing, unstoppable force attempting to overwhelm the ever-shrinking remnants of the human team. 
People formerly nameless to one another clump together in teams on either side.  The random individual can take the role of a leader for their team, or can become a feared name among both sides. People come up with crazy strategies, as what would be normally considered insane may now be a viable option. In the end, whether humanity survives, or whether the zombies take over, everyone has participated in a epic, entertaining apocalyptic scenario. 
Humans vs. Zombies is having it’s third play-through this month from March 27 to March 31, and the more people that play, the more fun the game becomes. It’s free, and registrations are open for all at http://hvzsource.com/nd and close this Saturday, March 24. 
Come join the battle for (or possibly against) mankind next week. You may very well be the force that determines the fate of civilization. 
Matt Coats
 sophomore Siegfried Hall March 25 
Alex Muench
 junior Siegfried Hall March 25 


I never previously saw a problem with evolution and the existence of God. I thought, “Simple, God worked through evolution.” I could hold onto my religion while being a 21st century person of science, right? Wrong. It was not that easy. 
The class challenged me to reevalu­ate how I viewed God and the world. Details of philosophical and scientific arguments aside, it seemed that evolu­tion provided many problems to the traditional Christian God. 
So what to do now? Dismiss God? Well there was no way I could do that. Dismiss evolution? That doesn’t seem very reasonable either. For the first time, I was forced to attempt to recon­cile two seemingly conflicting truths. 
I’m not sure if I’ve made too much progress, but I think it’s important for us (as students, Christians and hu­man beings) to not just take everything we learn in class at face value and to consider how they interact. Wasn’t that the original purpose of universities? To pursue truth and knowledge? 
While I refuse to believe science alone can ever provide all the answers, I also refuse to be completely ignorant of its findings and theories. It drives me nuts when students and professors dismiss areas outside their expertise as unimportant. As I harped about in my article “Thou Shall Not Judge,” how arrogant was it for my philosophy professor to look down on business majors? 
At the same time, how frustrat­ing when someone doesn’t know the answer and so decides just not to think about it (guilty as charged). 
At Mass one Sunday, a priest said that Notre Dame was one of the few places left where smart people still believed in God. How impactful. Notre Dame’s mission has always been to educate, not just the mind, but the heart and spirit as well. 
I would love to be able to understand the harmonious relationship between faith and reason as easily as the Pope and Saint Aquinas. I may not be there yet, but I’ll definitely continue trying. Through both faith and reason, I hope to better know myself, the world, and God. Is ignorance really bliss? Maybe. But I would argue not. 
Dee Tian can be reached at ytian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Social networking may stave off Israel-Iran conflict 
The Israeli and Iranian governments have both exchanged quite a lot of threats that entail large-scale bombing runs on each other. President Barack Obama re­cently stated the United States would defend Israel, especially if that required the use of military force, inching us closer and closer to all-out war. 
Yet, maybe there exists the assertion that these threats are merely political fig­ures flexing their military muscles. Under such politicking, one must ask, do these political figures truly represent their citizens’ intentions? 
To place the domestic environment in perspective, U.S., Israeli and Iranian citi­zens almost never talk to each other. The only contact that really occurs is among our elected officials and ambassadors. 
There are some Israeli citizens who disagree with their elected officials and their statements, instead seeking out the Iranian citizens directly, conveying passive messages of peace and love. 
Writers, teachers and graphic designers Ronny Edri and Michal Tamir are lead­ing a campaign on “IsraelLovesIran.com,” encouraging fellow Israelis to join in on the positive conversation surrounding the similarities between the people of Jew­ish and Islamic states. 
The website makes a strong effort to address all “fathers, mothers, children, brothers and sisters” of Iran. The campaign’s leader, Edri, wants them to know that “war is not on his radar.” His artistic creations, containing images of Israeli citizens advocating for cooperation, certainly reiterate constructivist art, aiming to effect social change. 
The campaign has received support from thousands of citizens, a majority com­ing from Israel. 
This demonstrates another effective use of social networking to create change that could very well radiate to a global stage. Through social networking, the citi­zens are talking among themselves, circumventing their elected officials and delv­ing straight into the domestic heart of each other. This certainly shows the world there is a shining niche of people who believe in peace and cooperation in stark contrast to their warmongering administrations. 
As students and social network users, we too have the opportunity to effect real change in our political and domestic environment. This represents a changing world, where we can exercise our citizenship electronically from our bedroom, where we can reach out to thousands of people. 
We should commend Edri for his efforts and mirror his constructivism into our own lives. We each have a unique way in which we can participate in such over­arching matters. Whether you are a writer, musician, painter or whatever, change can still come from your creative mind. The Israeli citizens are certainly beginning to realize this, and are reintegrating constructivist art to convey their message. 
Who knows, given the political instability in Iran, maybe this movement will prevent war with them. 
This article originally ran in the March 25 version of the Iowa State Daily, serving Iowa State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By COURTNEY ECKERLE “Semi-Charmed Life,” which drew a huge explosion Scene Writer of energy from the crowd. A very polite mosh pit al­
most started. 

Past weekend nights playing Rock Band clearly pre-Some of the band’s song choices left something to pared students for Saturday’s Third Eye Blind  SUB be desired, and the crowd’s energy flagged a bit, but Spring Concert featuring Hoodie Allen. People were that is going to happen at a concert where the crowd jamming on their air guitars and air drums, eyes only knows about four of the band’s songs. closed, pretending the music was coming straight out Third Eye Blind might not be poised for a takeover of their fingers. of this decade, but what made the concert was the 
In other words, the makings of a good old-fash-audience. Dancing, jumping, air guitar-ing, even a bit ioned rock concert. There was even one small, flick-of grinding (which is weird to Third Eye Blind) made ering lighter raised before it was squelched by con-the concert a blast. The kind of concert that makes cert ushers. you remember what college is all about: good friends 
Hoodie Allen started off the night right with a solid and good tunes. opening act. He got the crowd revved up, swaying their arms back and forth and even chanting along to Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu his song “James Franco.” 
Allen was clearly excited to be playing at Notre Dame, and like any good Domer, had obviously done his homework. 
During a freestyle South Bend rap, he dropped names of local establishments like Legends and Fin­ny’s, even saying he might hit up Club Fever after the 
Performers: Third Eye Blind and Hoodie Allen
show. To which a student in the audience loudly cor­rected him, “Dude, you don’t go to Fever on a Satur-
Where: Stepan Center
day.” 

Allen made his feelings about USC clear, which 
Top Tracks: “Never Let You Go,” “Jumper,” without getting specific, clearly matched those of the crowd. Judging by the reaction, he might have made “Semi-Charmed Life” and “James Franco” a thousand Notre Dame fans for life from his com­ment. 
In between acts, several groups in the audience raised three fingers into the air as a “Hunger Games”­esque salute to Third Eye Blind. 
When the band made their entrance, they were greeted by a crowd that had raided the closets of “Saved by the Bell” characters in an ode to a group that represents all that was great about the 90s. 
All the classic songs were there, “Jumper”, “Nev­er Let You Go” and saved for the grand finale was 
COURTNEY ECKERLE / The Observer 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 


Monday, March 26, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 13 

MARIA FERNANDEZ /The Observer 

By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Jenny Piccione 
Spotted: North Quad 
Jenny laid out in the quad and enjoyed the sunny, warm weather with this casual and colorful outfit. Her flower-print skirt looks great combined with a simple pink shirt and silver flats. It is a comfortable and trendy ensemble, perfect for spring. 

By SAM STRYKER cross between Lady Gaga and Miss Assistant Managing Editor Manners, Effie steals every scene 
she is in. Haymitch, while not as 
It is one thing to be perhaps the developed a character as he is in most-hyped movie of the year. It is the novel, nevertheless provides another to deliver on that excite-support to a lost Katniss and Peeta ment — and luckily for the legion while also milking his own sad-of fans of “The Hunger Games,” the sack ways for a few laughs. film adaptation of the wildly popu-Fans of the novel will not be dis­lar novel is a thrill-a-minute block-appointed. Collins was brought on buster. to help write the screenplay, and it 
For those of you who live under shows. In terms of plot, very little a pop-culture rock, “The Hunger fails to make it from the book to the Games” tells the tale of a post-movie. Even more of the relief is di­apocalyptic North America, known rector Gary Ross didn’t try to add as Panem, with twelve districts too much that wasn’t in the book. ruled over by the imposing Capitol. This was a smart move — the lack As retribution for their rebellion, of tampering allows for the roller-each of the districts annually offers coaster experience of reading the up two tributes — one male, one fe-novel to make the transition to the male — to participate in a televised big screen with ease. One thing that competition to the death known as does not translate as well, howev-The Hunger Games — think “Sur-er, is the development of the char­vivor” meets “Gladiator.” The film’s acters’ personalities. Despite the heroine, Katniss Everdeen, and the long running time of the film, the love-struck Peeta Mellark are cho-connections between the gallery sen as District 12’s tributes for the of “Hunger Games” figures never 74th Hunger Games, where their re-seems fully-developed. However, lationship is tested as they fight to this is not a film made for awards survive the competition. season — what it lacks for in emo-
Jennifer Lawrence, Josh Hutch-tional depth, it makes up with in erson, and Liam Hemsworth star as over two hours of sumptuous cos-the love triangle of Katniss, Peeta tumes, crackling action and beauti­and Gale Hawthorne, respectively. ful people. Lawrence, who grew up in the re-Even for those who haven’t read al-world District 12 of Kentucky, is the book, “The Hunger Games” pure force as Katniss — she takes is not just an awe-inspiring pop-no prisoners, striking the per-corn flick. The movie is a remark­fect balance between beauty and able commentary on what young toughness. Hutcherson and Hems-adults struggle with — newfound worth are strong counterpoints in responsibility, human loss, roman-their roles — Peeta as the outgoing tic troubles — all the while juxta­baker’s son, and Gale as Katniss’ posed against a sick envisioning brooding hunting partner. Move of our reality television obsessed, aside, Edward and Jacob — Peeta 24-7 media cycle-crazed modern and Gale aren’t just eye-candy, but culture. Katniss is an inspiration to they kick some butt as well. viewers to stand tall, keep our head 
The action in the arena is fast-held high and march on. The ac-paced, despite the film’s 142-min-tion and beauty of the “Games” may ute running time. While this may draw viewers in, but the film was be long, and the camera handling a reminder of the strong characters was at times shaky, “The Hunger that made the book so great. So vol-Games” truly captures the spectacle unteer as tribute to see “The Hun-author Suzanne Collins portrayed ger Games” as soon as you can, and in the novel. The film respects both may the odds be ever in your favor. the epic scope of the event and the real people who not only compete in Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu the games, but also enact them in the first place. We even go behind the scenes of the event, into the Game-makers control room, an in­spired addition to the film. 
Directed by: Gary Ross 
Capitol babysitter Effie Trinket, 
Starring: Jennifer Lawrence, Josh
alcoholic trainer Haymitch Aberna­thy, Katniss’ stylist Cinna and the Hutcherson, Liam Hemsworth, Elizabeth 
nefarious President Snow round 
Banks and Woody Harrelson 
out the colorful cast of supporting characters. While Katniss, and to some extent Peeta and Gale, is the focus of the movie, the support­ing characters, in particular Effie (Elizabeth Banks) and Haymitch (Woody Harrelson) provide some comic relief to a film already siz­zling with tension. An uproarious 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Tiger’s return makes golf more interesting 

Can you hear that roar? Did you catch that flash of red? 
Yep, Tiger Woods is back. And I could not be more ex­cited about it. 
In case you haven’t heard, Woods won his first PGA Tour tournament since 2009 yesterday. Yes, that’s right. It has been almost three years since Tiger won an event that matters. 
Since then, he’s gone through one of the biggest downfalls in sports history, stopped com­petitive golf­ing entirely, entered 


“Like it or not, Tiger was 
rehab, fired world’s No. 
absolutely the driving 
his caddy, 1 golfer. 
lost his force behind golf’s That’s swing coach, increasing relevance in why it’s so struggled the 2000s. Step back for exciting to mightily and a second and think about have Tiger faded from this: he made golf — yes, back. He relevance as the sport of old men makes golf 
he dropped fun again. 
and Jim Nantz whispers 
out of the There was 
— popular beyond the 
top-10 in the a certain 
country club. People knew 
rankings. thrill of 
something, anything 
But now, watch­
he’s back. about professional golf.” ing Woods 
watch the 2011 edition, when you knew Tiger wouldn’t be a factor? Didn’t think so. 
Will you watch this year? Absolutely. 
Like it or not, Tiger was absolutely the driving force behind golf’s increasing relevance in the 2000s. Step back for a second and think about this: he made golf — yes, the sport of old men and Jim Nantz whis­
pers — popular beyond the country club. People knew something, anything about professional golf. As Tiger went, so went the TV rat­ings. Wherever Tiger went, 
the massive galleries fol­lowed — and wouldn’t stop growing. 
No offense to Luke Don­ald, but he’s not exactly 
inspiring 
a whole lot 
of commer­
cials as the 
To be sure, Woods is but a shadow of the golfer he once was. At 36 years old, he no longer has the athletic dominance that allowed him to simply overpower fields. After the complete upending his life underwent, he struggles to find focus on the golf course like he once did. Perhaps the most striking difference is that the mere appearance of the name “Woods” on a lead­erboard is no longer enough to shake anyone unfortunate enough to be standing in Tiger’s way. 
But at his core, Tiger is still the same golfer. He’s a phenomenal ball-striker with perhaps the best iron play in history. He struggles to keep his driver in the fairway, and his putting is inconsistent at times. 
Most importantly for the PGA Tour, Woods is a per­sonality. 
When was the last time the Masters was a relevant tournament? When Woods returned in 2010. Did you roar past 
an entire 
field in the 
blink of an 
eye — one moment, he was fading from contention on Satur­day; the next, he was at the top of the leaderboard. Of course, nothing matched the experience of watching Tiger take on the final day of a major tournament in a red shirt. On the one hand, the setting was suspense­ful, and the outcome was in doubt. You knew Tiger was going to win, and so did he. 
That’s what he lost. 
Hopefully, that’s what he’s found again. 
Forget the marital infi­delities. Don’t worry about the layoff. Just listen for the roar, and watch for the red. 
Tiger’s back. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PGA 

Woods wins Palmer Invitational 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Florida — Two weeks after another injury scare, and two days before his former coach’s book goes on sale, Tiger Woods looked dominant as ever in that red shirt on Sunday to win the Ar­nold Palmer Invitational. 
It was his first PGA Tour victory since a sex scandal at the end of 2009 led to one of the greatest downfalls in sports. And with the Masters only two weeks away, Woods looks more capable of ever than resuming his pursuit of Jack Nicklaus in the majors. 
Woods closed with a 2-un­der 70 for a five-shot win over Graeme McDowell. 
The question two weeks ago was when he could play again. Now, it’s whether he can get back to player who once ruled golf. 
Even though he won the un­official Chevron World Chal­lenge last December, this was meaningful for Woods 
— a full tour event against a strong field, and a perfor­mance so clean that he was never seriously challenged on the back nine. 
The final hole was a mere formality, and Woods tapped his putter on the ground wait­ing for his turn, knowing that 30 months without a win on the PGA Tour was about to win. He walked off the green with his arm extended, wav­ing his cap to a raucous gal­lery. 
“It does feel good. It feels re­ally good,” Woods said before signing his card. “It’s been a lot of hard work.” 
Woods finished at 13-under 275 for his 72nd PGA Tour win, one short of Nicklaus for second place on the career list. But that’s not the record Woods wants. He has 14 ma­jors, four shot of the Nicklaus standard, and he tries to end a four-year drought at the Masters, which starts April 5. 
“I am excited, no doubt,” Woods said. “I’m looking for­ward to the momentum I’ve built here.” 
It was the first time Woods had all four rounds under par since he returned from his personal crisis at the 2010 Masters. 
McDowell made a 45-foot birdie putt and a 50-foot eagle putt early in the round to try to stay close, though he was never closer than two shots after starting with a double bogey. He closed with a 74. 
Ernie Els failed in his bid to get into the Masters. The three-time major cham­pion started the final round three shots behind, but twice missed par putts inside 3 feet and shot 75. He would have needed a two-way tie for second to crack the top 50 in the world. Instead, he tied for fourth and will have to win the Houston Open next week to avoid missing the Masters for the first time since 1993. 
This day belonged to Woods, as it used to at Arnie’s place. 
Only two weeks ago, Woods was taken off Doral in the mid­dle of the final round with tight­ness in his left Achilles tendon, the same injury that caused him to miss three months last year, including two majors. It turned out to be a mild strain, and Sunday was the eighth straight day that Woods played golf — starting with a practice round last Sunday at Augusta. 
His injuries have received more attention in the last year than the personal life crisis that cost him his marriage and corporate support. But in the last week, Hank Haney’s book — “The Big Miss” — was mailed out to various media outlets, another distraction for Woods. 
The book is go on sale Tues­day, and while it deals mainly with Haney’s six years teach­ing Woods, it raises questions about Woods’ fascination with the Navy SEALs and whether that contributed to his injuries, and it portrays Woods as self-centered and rarely satisfied, a side of him that Woods has sought to keep private for so many years. 
The win at Bay Hill, his re­cord seventh in the event, puts the focus back on golf. 
“He was a man on a mission today,” caddie Joe LaCava said. 

“He was pretty jacked up. He was out there to prove himself.” 
Woods goes to No. 6 in the world, his first time back in the top 10 since May 22. He had gone 923 days — dating to Sept. 13, 2009 — since he last won on the PGA Tour at the BMW Championship. And it was his first win on any tour since Nov. 15, 2009, when he won the Australian Masters at Kingston Heath. 
Twelve days later, Woods ran his car into a fire hydrant, and revelations poured on about his extramarital affairs. He has not been the same since then, and players began to wonder if his mystique could ever return. 
This was a step. A big step. Woods renewed his reputation as golf’s greatest closer, win­ning for the 38th time in 40 attempts when he had the lead going into the final round. 
It was McDowell who took down Woods in shocking fash­ion at the end of 2010 by ral­lying from four shots down to beat him at the Chevron World Challenge, something long con­sidered unthinkable. And it was McDowell, speaking for so many others on tour, who sug­gested last August that the red shirt on Sunday was not as in­timidating as once was. 
McDowell gave Woods a big cushion on the opening hole when his approach buried so badly in the bunker that only the top half of the ball could be seen. He blasted out through the green into another bunker and made double bogey. That gave Woods a three-shot lead, and McDowell never got closer than two the rest of the way. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

garage, walk to campus. $1200/mo A Baby is a Blessing: Adoption Tiger Woods Major Wins Jack Nicklaus Major Wins 
FOR SALE PERSONAL 
+ utilities 847-420-7589 Masters: 1997, 2001, 2002, 2005 Masters: 1963, 1965, 1966, 1972, 
We’re both educators who value US Open: 2000, 2002, 2008 1975, 1986 House for rent. 3BR $600 per learning, family and our happy 8 yr The Open Championship: 2000, US Open: 1962, 1967, 1972, 1980 bedroom. Utilities included. 506 No marriage. 2005, 2006 The Open Championship: 1966, 
2002 Audi A4 1.8T quattro. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
ND Ave. Call 574-272-2940 PGA Championship: 1999, 2000, 1970, 1978 
Excellent condition.85,000 Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame We’ll give your child a happy home, 2006, 2007 PGA Championship: 1963, 1971, mi.$8,000. 574-273-8683 has many resources in place to a stay-at-home mom and a large, 1973, 1975, 1980 assist you. If you or someone you 
Faculty or Grad Students. devoted Catholic family (9 cousins Tiger Woods’s average clubhead 
love needs confidential support 

Spacious 2br,2-1/2 ba with and growing!). speed is 125 mph, while the Nicklaus won 18 Major 
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 
FOR RENT 

LR,DR,fam rm, 4-season rm, AC, average person’s speed is 84 mph. championships and 73 PGA Tour 
Dunn at 1-7819. Sec Sys, 2-car gar, near campus, For more information, visit ND’s We very much look forward to events, second to Sam Snead. bsmt, fen. yrd + utility rm, no pets. website at: talking to you. Tiger Woods has won six Optimist Faculty or Grad Students Only. 
$1500/mo + utilities. Call Kim & Robert International Junior World Titles, Nicklaus was inducted into the Immac 3br with large rec room, 262-332-0015 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu (855) 788-2810. the first coming at the age of eight. World Golf Hall of Fame in 1974. 
MLB 

Johnson, Marlins defeat Rays 
Associated Press 
PORT CHARLOTTE, Fla. — Josh Johnson had to work out of a few jams Sunday in pitch­ing five scoreless innings for the Miami Marlins in a 5-1 vic­tory over the Tampa Bay Rays. 
“A little bit of everything,” Johnson said of his fifth start. “Some good, some bad, some ugly, but I got my pitch count up and got my adrenaline go­ing that last inning, so it was good.” 
Mia mi’s 
opening­

“That’s normal for 
day starter, 

him from what I hear. 
Johnson al­lowed three JJ threw the ball very 
hits, struck well. I’m very happy out four and where he is at right.” walked five. 
He threw 45 

Ozzie Guillen 
of 79 pitches 

Marlins manager 
for strikes. 
He walked Evan Longo­ria in the first, threw a wild pitch and walked Carlos Pena, prompting catcher John Buck to head to the mound. 
“I knew he was a little out of whack,” Buck said. “Every time he was delivering the ball it looked a little different. I could see a bunch of his chest, the spin of the ball would change.” 
The next two innings were far smoother for Johnson, who hit an RBI double to deep left-center in the second. 
“Everything was on time. My tempo was a lot better. I was going after guys, throwing quality pitches. That’s what I’ve been looking for all spring, those two innings right there,” Johnson said. 

Johnson encountered trou­ble in the fourth, giving up a leadoff single to Longoria and loading the bases with walks to Pena and Luke Scott. He in­duced Jose Molina to ground into an inning-ending, 6-4-3 double play. 
Johnson escaped another jam in the fifth, with runners on second and third and no 
out. He struck out Ben Zo­brist and Matt Joyce, then re­tired Longoria on a flyout. 
“You have to do whatev­er you can to get guys out,” Johnson said. “That’s one of those times you go for the strikeout.” 
Marlins head athletic trainer Sean Cunningham 

and pitching coach Randy St. Claire went out to check on Johnson in the fifth, but he shook them off. They were concerned about a fingernail, which digs into his skin when he throws his slider. John­son said it’s just something he deals with and has played through for a while. 
“That’s normal for him from what I hear,” Marlins man­ager Ozzie Guillen said. “JJ threw the ball very well. I’m very happy where he is at right now.” 
Rays starter Wade Davis struggled in what could be his final bid to make Tampa Bay’s rotation. Davis gave up four runs, seven hits and three walks in 4 2-3 innings with two strikeouts. He threw 52 of 91 pitches for strikes as his ERA rose to 4.91. 
It wasn’t an ideal outing for a pitcher competing with fel­low right-hander Jeff Niemann for a spot in the starting rota­tion. 
“I would have loved to have done a lot better,” Davis said. “The past couple of spring trainings I’ve had some rough springs. I’ve definitely excelled better this year than I have in the past. But at the same time you want to do better, and I’m definitely on a better track of being ready for the season that I have been in the past physi­cally. My stuff’s sharper, I’ve added more weapons to my repertoire and ultimately it’s not up to me.” 
Rays manager Joe Maddon liked what he saw from Davis at the start, when he struck out Hanley Ramirez after the speedy Emilio Bonifacio tri­pled down the left-field line. 
“I thought he started out great,” Maddon said. “I real­ly liked the first inning a lot, and then after that it just, the stuff just went away a little bit. Nothing wrong with him phys­ically, but I really liked the first inning a lot and I thought we were going to see more of that, and then it seemed like after home run it went back into that high-80 range. He still threw some pretty good breaking balls but lost a little bit of his fastball.” 
Davis gave up homers to Buck and Bryan Peterson in the fourth, which extended Mi­ami’s lead to 4-0. 
NBA 

Smith, Hawks outlast Utah in four overtimes 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Joe Johnson was exhausted by the time the Hawks and Utah Jazz had dragged each other into a fourth overtime — in Atlanta’s third game in three nights, no less. 
“It was unbelievable,” he said. “I just had to laugh it off. I’ve never played in a game like that.” 
Johnson scored 37 points, Josh Smith added 22 and the Hawks ended Utah’s six-game winning streak with a 139-133 victory Sunday night in the NBA’s first quadruple-overtime game since 1997. 
The four overtimes tied for the third-longest game in NBA his­tory. It was the ninth NBA game to go four OTs and the first since Phoenix beat Portland 140-139 on Nov. 14, 1997. 
Al Jefferson finished with 28 points and 17 rebounds, and Paul Millsap had 25 points and 13 boards for the Jazz before both players fouled out in the final overtime. 
“We’ll take a moral victory out of this one,” Millsap said. “This was a good ball team we played tonight. They played ex­cellent defense. We just didn’t get it done.” 
Atlanta has won four straight and six of seven. The Hawks im­proved to 30-20 and moved one-half game ahead of Indiana for fifth place in the Eastern Con­ference. 
“It would happen on the third (straight night), but it shows the toughness of this ballclub to be able to push through that many overtimes and come out victori­ous,” said Smith, who fouled out with 1:57 left in the first over­time. “It was a special win, and I think we’ll probably appreci­ate this win more so than any other win during the season thus far.” 
Johnson ended the first quar­ter with 18 points after going 8 of 8 in the period. He missed eight of his next nine shots, in­cluding a potential game-win­ning runner with 3 seconds left in regulation, before hitting a 3-pointer that forced the third overtime. 
With 16.9 seconds remaining in the fourth OT, Johnson’s 20­foot jumper over C.J. Miles gave the Hawks a 135-131 lead. 
“I got some great looks in that first quarter,” Johnson said. “I got into a rhythm early and for whatever reason it took me a little while to get that rhythm back, but other guys stepped up and made plays.” 

Jeff Teague, who had 18 points and nine assists, added a pair of free throws with 13 seconds to go to make it 137-133. Johnson’s two free throws sealed the vic­tory with 5.5 seconds remain­ing. 
Zaza Pachulia, who pulled down 20 rebounds, hit a short jumper in the final seconds of the second quarter that gave the Hawks a 17-point lead, their biggest of the game. 
Utah rallied with a 27-9 run, giving the Jazz their first lead since early in the opening pe­riod. Millsap’s 16-footer made it 65-64 with 3:23 left in the third. 
Jefferson gave the Jazz their biggest lead of the game when his turnaround 12-footer made it 109-104 in the third OT, but Utah never went ahead in the final two periods. 
“It’s over with,” Jefferson said. “We’ve just got to get ready for tomorrow. That’s why you get in shape. We can’t make any ex­cuses. It was their third game in three nights. They found a way to pull it out in the end.” 
The Jazz, who have won only one road game when they trailed after three quarters, fell to 7-17 away from home. They began the day as one of six teams sep­arated by only 1 1/2 games for the final five playoff spots in the Western Conference. 
“We showed a lot of character and fight,” Utah coach Tyrone Corbin said. “That’s what we need on the road in the second half to win. We’ve got to make sure we understand that’s what’s going to make us have a chance.” 
Utah’s biggest lead in regu­lation came when Gordon Hay­ward’s two free throws made it 93-89 with 5:31 left in the fourth. 
Hayward scored 19 points and Devin Harris handed out 10 assists for the Jazz. 
Not surprisingly, Johnson was delighted when Jefferson and Millsap both picked up their sixth foul in the last OT. 
“I was so happy when they fouled out, man, you wouldn’t even believe it,” Johnson said with a smile. 

FENCING 

Irish finish third at NCAA championship 

By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish captured third place in the NCAA championships Sunday in Columbus, Ohio, fin­ishing behind Ohio State and Princeton. Notre Dame failed to defend its 2011 national cham­pionship. 
Irish coach Janusz Bednarski was pleased with the outcome, considering the relative youth and inexperience of this Irish squad compared to champion­ship teams in the past. 
“I’m really happy that we made the top three, losing the second place finish to Princeton by only one bout,” Bednarski said. “It was a satisfying mo­ment. Of course we’d like to be second or first. But in general, we had a very young team.” 
The fencers had a slightly dif­ferent reaction to the outcome. As competitors, they wanted to go in and capture another crown. 
“We’re disappointed as a col­lective,” junior James Kaull said. “We go into every champi­onship thinking we have a very legitimate chance of winning it, and when that doesn’t happen, you just have to go back to the drawing board and figure out what you have to do better next season.” 
Notre Dame was able to cap­ture titles in one weapon, men’s foil. The top performer for Notre Dame in that contest was senior Enzo Castellani. He was the only Irish fencer to finish in the top three of his weapon. For that effort, Castellani received first-team All-American honors. 
All other weapons were near the top, but the cumulative re­sults landed the Irish in third. Some other top finishers for Notre Dame were senior Reggie Bentley, who finished fifth in the men’s foil, and Kaull, who fin­ished seventh in the men’s epee. Both were named second-team All-Americans. 
“We performed pretty strong­ly,” Bednarski said. “From the attack fencing position, it caught up to us because of the intensity of the bouts.” 
Bednarski lauded his team’s effort, as they experienced a strong push from Penn State and St. John’s in an attempt to knock Notre Dame from the podium po­sition. The intensity of high-pres­sure bouts can catch up with a team, Bednarski said. That hap­pened to the Irish on Sunday. 
“A lot of kids spent a lot of ef­fort to keep attacking the win­ners,” Bednarski said. “They did what I predicted they would. They were simply fighting. As long as they had any power, they were under the mood to attack. They did a great job.” 
Kaull stressed how different this year’s squad was from last year’s championship team. For that reason, the Irish had to fig­ure out who they were as athletes and as a team during the year. 
“We had to just really cre­ate an identity for ourselves,” Kaull said. “We had to do that in the most pressure situation like NCAA championships. We didn’t win it, but we learned a lot about ourselves as a team and who we are as competitors.” 
Over the course of the season, the Irish had to mature quickly, because of veterans they lost to graduation and Olympic training. 
“There were a lot of growing pains,” Kaull said. “We’re grow­ing into ourselves. I think that’s the big theme of this year.” 
The result gives Notre Dame something to build on for the fu­ture. The Irish are a perennial force in collegiate fencing, and next year will be no different. A stronger, more experienced squad will produce stiffer com­petition among teammates to earn the privilege to compete. 
“I will have a very good situ­ation with competition for a starting position on the team,” Bednarski said. “Usually it’s very good for a team to have in­ternal competition for a spot.” 
“[The future] is very bright,” Kaull said. “We have a lot of kids coming back from the Olympics next year. We have a lot of good freshman recruits and a lot of veteran leaders who understand their roles and know how to lead. They’re confident in what they have to do to bring home another championship.” 
Contact Matthew robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles rebound against Judson 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
Even though Saint Mary’s was not able to overcome regionally-ranked Wheaton, the Belles were able to shine in their second match of the weekend, beating Judson 7-2. 
Wheaton (15-1), ranked No. 8 in the Central Region, took all but one of the singles matches in beat­ing Saint Mary’s 8-1. In five singles matches, the Thunder were able to claim straight-set victories. 
“They were stronger than us in the singles for the most part,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “I know they are a [regionally] ranked team, but they just had overall more depth than us.” 
In the sixth singles spot, soph­omore Margaret Boden man­aged a solid come-from-behind victory over junior Julia Carey. 
“Margaret Boden played very well,” Campbell said. “She won us a hard-earned match.” 
The Belles (7-4) struggled to com­pete in the doubles matches, typi­cally one of the team’s strengths. 
“I thought we played a little bit closer in the doubles,” said Camp­bell. “I definitely thought we could compete with them in the doubles and had some chances.” 
In the end, Wheaton managed to sweep all three, something that disappointed Campbell. 
Conversely, the Belles set the tone early against Judson (5-11) sweep­ing all three of doubles matches. 
“We played better,” Campbell said. “All in all, we played well.” 
Following this impressive start, the Belles were able to shine against the Eagles in singles play, capturing four of the six matches. It began with soph­omore Mary Catherine Faller, playing in the one spot, who defeated Judson junior Alexa Schofield. Following Faller’s victory, both freshman Shan­non Elliot and Jackie Kjolhede took victories in their respective matches at the third and fourth positions. Sophomore Margaret Boden, who claimed a victory in the sixth spot, wrapped up the singles victories. 

“They definitely had some good players, but we still pretty much con­trolled that match,” Campbell said. 
Regardless, Campbell said the team is improving. As Campbell sees it, this is something that will prove to be vital for such a young team. The Belles are entirely made up of freshmen and sophomores. 
“We’re such a young team, but we’re gaining a lot of experience and getting better,” Campbell said. “We still have to make a couple changes to make to do well in our confer­ence, but we’re getting better.” 
Tuesday the Belles will return to play when they travel to Albion to face their conference-rival Britons at 4 p.m. 
Contact aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Saint Mary’s splits with North Park 
Observer Staff Report 
After falling 5-2 in its open­ing contest, Saint Mary’s re­sponded with a dominant per­formance, shutting out North Park in a 4-0 win in the second game of the doubleheader. 
The opener was a closely contested, defensive contest for much of the game.  The game was scoreless until the top of the sixth inning, when the visitors pushed across three runs. 
The Belles (11-5, 0-2 MIAA) an­swered with a run in the bottom of the sixth when sophomore pitcher Cassie Selner scored on a fielder’s choice. 
North Park (11-5) added two runs in the top of the seventh, silencing Saint Mary’s comeback attempt. 
In the second game, the Belles rode a strong pitching perfor­mance from senior pitcher Moni­ca Palicki to a shutout victory. 
Saint Mary’s got on the board early, scoring three runs in the third inning. They pushed their first run across on senior outfielder Kristen Nelson’s RBI triple. A throwing error allowed Nel­son to score. The Belles scored their last run of the inning on junior catch­er Morgan Bedan’s RBI single. 
This would prove to be all the run support Palicki needed, as she closed out the game without allowing a single North Park run. 
Saint Mary’s added an insurance run in the bottom of the sixth in­ning on freshman first baseman Jordie Wasserman’s RBI single. 
The win marked Belles coach Erin Sullivan’s 150th career victory at Saint Mary’s. 
The Belles are next in action when they travel to Defiance Monday, with first pitch scheduled for 3:30 p.m. 



MEN’S GOLF 

Notre Dame finishes sixth in 12-team field 

By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
For the second tournament in a row, Notre Dame found it­self in the middle of the pack, watching Alabama claim the title at the Linger Longer Invi­tational in Greensboro, Ga. The Irish finished in sixth place in the 12-team field. The Crimson Tide shot a dominating 26-un­der par over the three rounds, outpacing second-place Georgia by three strokes. The Irish com­bined to shoot an 18-over par (882 strokes), just three shots behind fifth-place Kentucky. 
“Overall, it was a middle-of­the-road performance that led to a middle-of-the-road finish,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “The field was actually very good. It had more ranked teams than the Schenkel [Invitational] had two weeks ago, but we still need to get better.” 
After 36 holes of golf Satur­day, the Irish sat in fourth place, but were jumped by Oklahoma on Sunday in the final round. For Kubinski, the struggle has been to find the third and fourth scores to complement the top two. 
“We have two or two-and-a­half scores, and that’s just not going to cut it against teams like Alabama and Georgia,” Kubinski said. “We need to get better performance out of the bottom of our lineup.” 
Notre Dame was paced by reigning Big East Golfer of the Week senior Max Scodro, who finished with a five-under par score of 211, good for a share of fourth place. Alabama sopho­more Cory Whitsett took first with an eight-under par 208. The finish by Scodro marked the seventh-consecutive tour­nament in which the senior re­corded a top-25 finish.  Scodro fired below-par scores in the first two rounds before settling in at par in the third. 
Sophomore Niall Platt was the next highest finisher for the Irish, posting a one-under par, good for a share of 14th place. His second round three-under par tied with Scodro’s second for the lowest scoring round of the tournament for the Irish. 
Senior Chris Walker and soph­omore Andrew Lane rounded out the scoring for Notre Dame, finishing at nine-over par and 19-over par respectively. It was Lane’s first time in the lineup on the season, replacing senior mainstay Tom Usher. 
“Lane played well for one of his first looks all spring,” Ku­binski said. “But he didn’t man­age his misses as well as we’d like. He’d get a number of birdie looks, but then end up hurting himself with a number of bad shots.” 
Whether or not Lane remains in the top five will remain to be seen. With Kubinski perceiving a lack of production at the bot­tom of the lineup, changes may still happen, and Usher is cer­tainly still in the mix. 
“We’re going to get Tom [Ush­er] back in there for sure,” Ku­binski said. “He’s just been ex­hausted recently, and his play at the Schenkel really showed it. We’re going to reevaluate in the next few weeks what our lineup is going to look like going for­ward, but it’s definitely not the last you’ll see of Tom or Andrew [Lane].” 
The Irish return to the course April 9 at the All-American In­tercollegiate in Houston. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish shut out Golden Eagles 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 

Despite the absence of soph­omore Britney Sanders — the No. 4 singles player who se­cured the lone singles point for the Irish in their last match — No. 17 Notre Dame cruised to a 7-0 shutout home victory over Big East opponent Marquette on Sunday. 
Sanders played one extra match in the fall, so had to sit out one spring match. Accord­ing to Irish coach Jay Louder-back, Notre Dame (13-5, 2-0 Big East) felt confident enough against the Golden Eagles (10­6, 3-1) to take the opportunity to sit Sanders for the contest. 
“We just felt like this was a good one for her to sit out,” he said. “And to do that, we felt like we needed to flip the doubles around just to make us tougher at all three spots.” 
The change in the doubles lineup was not enough to pre­vent the Irish from captur­ing their ninth-consecutive doubles point, as senior Kristy Frilling teamed up with sopho­more Julie Sabacinski at No. 1 doubles and won 8-4. At the No. 2 spot, the other half of the nation’s No. 1 doubles pair, senior Shannon Mathews, paired with freshman Kather­ine White to win 8-3. The only traditional doubles team — ju­nior Chrissie McGaffigan and sophomore Jennifer Kellner — rounded out the third doubles victory on the day. At 8-3, Mc-Gaffigan and Kellner secured their sixth-straight match at the position. 
Stepping in at No. 2 doubles and No. 6 singles was White, who earned her first singles victory since Jan. 29. Louder-back said after a long absence due to a shoulder injury, White needs to get back in her groove. 
“Her big thing is to just get her playing matches. She missed almost a full year with shoulder surgery before she came in and it’s just a matter of getting comfortable playing matches again,” he said. “She played against Hawaii and lost in three sets, but played a great first set, and then started mak­ing a few errors. And today she played a very good first set, and backed it up and played a good second set, too. 

“So it was good to see her play two good sets in a row. And she has the ability to be good, it’s just a matter of get­ting her more match experi­ence right now. But it was good to see her come out and play well. She also played well at doubles, too.” 
The 7-0 victory brought the Irish to 8-3 at home, a tally that is assisted by the team’s familiarity with the court sur­face in South Bend, according to Louderback. 
“You go to some places where the courts are really slow and you have to play a long, long match and some places where the ball doesn’t come up really high and it’s fast. So it’s much easier at home, because you’re used to your facility,” he said. 
Another advantage of Sun­day’s match was the unusually warm March weather, a ben­efit that Louderback says will pay off for the Irish come the NCAA tournament. 
“It was great for us, because I don’t know when we’ve played an outdoor match in March — I don’t know if we’ve ever played an outdoor match in March,” he said. “So it was nice to be able to play outside today. We’ve only been indoors twice in the past three or four weeks and the NCAAs are outdoors, so just getting outdoors was big for us today and especially just playing an outdoor home match — we don’t have a lot of those.” 
But before the national tour­nament, the Irish have several important conference matches ahead of them. At 2-0 in Big East play, Notre Dame will face DePaul, South Florida and Louisville in the upcoming weeks, which will give it a bet­ter gauge on conference stand­ings. 
“We’ve got three big ones coming up in the Big East. And [DePaul, South Florida and Louisville] will probably be three of the top six teams in the conference, so that will give us a little bit more of an idea. And those two teams, DePaul and South Florida, are both good 
— South Florida is ranked No. 30 and DePaul is ranked [No. 49]. So they’re both very good teams. And then Louisville on the road will be a tough match. So we’re excited to get some more of the Big East matches in.” 
The Irish will be in action March 31 at home against De-Paul at 2 p.m. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 


MEN’S SWIMMING 

Dyer leads ND to best finish in school history 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame officially ended its season Saturday, closing out one of the best years in school history. The Irish finished 6-4 in dual meets, won their fifth Big East conference title and added individual accomplish­ments across the board. 
Most exciting was the nam­ing of the first Irish All-Amer­ican for the program, when sophomore Frank Dyer fin­ished fourth in the 200-yard freestyle Friday at the NCAA championships. 
“I just rode the momentum we had coming out and even­tually got into the [200-yard freestyle] final,” Dyer said. “Being named All-American is great and to have that next to my name for life is really spe­cial, especially when I can rep­resent Notre Dame.” 
His time of 1:34.00 earned him fourth place and 15 points for the Irish, the first points on the board for the team in its history. 
“Obviously the team’s sup­port has been crucial getting here. After my morning swim on Friday, I received texts and tweets from my teammates showing their support and that’s really what encouraged me,” Dyer said. “I had [junior] Bill [Bass], my family and my coaches here but the guys back home pushed to me per­form at my best level.” 

The Irish sent Dyer and Bass to the NCAAs at the King County Aquatic Center in Fed­eral Way, Wash. This marked the first year in program his­tory multiple Irish swimmers competed in the event. 
Bass swam in the 100-yard butterfly Friday, finishing in 
48.33 to earn 38th place. 
Both swimmers also com­peted Saturday, the final day of competition. Dyer took 39th in the 100-yard freestyle with a time of 44.04 and Bass placed 30th in the 200-yard butterfly in 1:46.64. 
“I am extremely happy with my performance,” Dyer said. “It’s exciting to surprise your­self and now I can build on the confidence I’ve gained going into next year.” 
Their combined efforts seat­ed the Irish in 28th place at the end of the weekend. This season’s success has only add­ed motivation to the squad. 
“This team put in a lot of hard work all year,” Dyer said. “Next year, our team is going to be the best this program has even seen and we’ll be ready to perform at the na­tional level.” 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 

TRACK AND FIELD 

Both squads win in Houston 

By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
Both Irish squads were able to make a dominant impression in their first outdoor meet of the season, winning the Victor Lo­pez Invitational in Houston at Rice University. 
“It was excellent,” Irish coach Joe Piane said. “We had good things on both sides, from both genders, and it was a pretty good meet. 
“This meet was more indi­vidually based. So there were many athletes who could have helped us score a lot more who we didn’t end up taking.” 
Piane highlighted the fact three of the four runners who captured an NCAA title in the distance medley during the indoor season stayed home, as well as senior Maddie Butt­inger, who competes in multiple events. 
Individually, the Irish started the first day well, capturing four victories. Both the men and the women nabbed the first spot in the hammer throw, as senior Andrew Hillis won with a toss of 54.62 meters and soph­omore Vivien Devaney followed suit with a toss of 52.82 meters. 
This dominance continued in the women’s 1,500-meter run, where five Irish runners were able to place in the top eight. Sophomore Kelly Curran, who finished first with a time of 4:26.80, headed off the pack. Sophomore Alexa Aragon was close behind, taking second with a time of 4:27.01. Piane said these performances stood out. 
“Both girls ran exceptionally well and showed a lot,” Piane said. 
The men also impressed, with senior Jordan Carlson claim­ing first place in the 3,000-me­ter steeplechase. Carlson led the competition with a time of 9:00.57, with other Irish run­ners also landing in the top-four. Senior Kelly Lynch took third with a time of 9:13.58 and senior Joe Miller took fourth with a time of 9:14.16. 
On the second day of compe­tition, the Irish were led by se­nior Kevin Schipper, who took first place in the pole vault with an impressive 5.15 meters. The Irish shined in the women’s pole vault as well. Sophomore Kelly Burke claimed second with a vault of 3.85 meters. 
Freshman Kaila Barber con­tinued the success with a run­ner-up finish in the 400-meter hurdles, finishing the race in 
59.04. Also succeeding on the track were the Irish men who competed in the 400-meter dash. The group was headed by freshman Chris Giesting, who took second with a time of 
46.59. Following close behind was sophomore Patrick Feeney, who took third with a time of 47.18. 
The Irish men continued strong performances in the field events, as sophomores An­drew Brock and Logan Renwick both took third in their respec­tive events. Brock excelled in the shot put, where he finished with a toss of 16.92 meters and Renwick impressed in the triple jump, with a leap of 14.38 me­ters. 
The Irish men and women ex­celled in their team events as well, as both squads finished second in the 4x400-meter re­lay. The group of men, com­prised of Giesting, Feeney, ju­nior Brendan Dougherty and senior Mitchell Lorenz, cruised to their success with a time of 3:07.51, establishing a new school record, shattering one that had stood in place for near­ly twenty years. 

“That really stood out,” Piane said. “It was just a very good performance.” 
Also making an impression were the women. Consisting of runners junior Natalie Gieger, sophomore Megan Yanik, fresh­men Jade Barber and Kaila Barber, the 4x400-meter relay claimed their second-place spot with a group time of 3:39.67. 
Piane couldn’t help but note that this was a step in the right direction, leading the team to­ward the end objective of this spring season. 
“Our goal every year is to do well at the Big East meet and get people to the NCAAs and we’re well on our way to doing that,” Piane said. 
The Irish will look to continue this impressive start to their outdoor campaign this week. The team will split up, with some athletes making the trek to the Clyde Littlefield Texas Re­lays in Austin, Tex., on Wednes­day and Thursday, others going to the Eastern Illinois Multi-Events Invitational in Charles­ton, Ill., on Thursday, and a final group travelling to the Purdue Poehlein Invitational in West Lafayette, Ind., on Friday. 
Contact aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Weather halts three-game series 
Observer Staff Report Prior to this trip, Notre Dame noon they fell 2-1 to Michigan. 
(11-10) traveled to Fullerton, They closed the trip with a 7-2 
The Irish traveled to Wash-Calif., over spring break for loss to Washington on March ington this weekend to face the a five-game series at the Judi 16 and a rainout cancellation Georgetown Hoyas in a three-Garman Classic. The squad against Arizona State on the game series. Due to weather, went 2-2 in the tournament, 17th. all three games were can-missing the last game due The Irish host their first celled. No makeup date is cur-to rain. The Irish triumphed home game after 21 road rently set, but possible changes 16-0 over Cal State Fullerton games Tuesday against West-will be announced on UND.com on March 14 and 2-0 against ern Michigan at 6 p.m. at Me-if and when they are made. Iowa on March 15. That after-lissa Cook Stadium. 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish open conference play with victory over Louisville 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
Returning to Arlotta Stadium after four games on the road, the No. 6 Irish scored nine con­secutive goals over a 16-minute stretch to overcome a sluggish start and outlast Louisville 13­11 in their Big East conference-opener Saturday. 
Coming off of a win against No. 18 Cornell, the Irish (7-0, 1-0 Big East) looked slow out of the gate, allowing the Cardinals (2-6, 0-1 Big East) to jump out to a 5-1 lead early in the first half. The Irish offense was stifled ear­ly on by Louisville junior goalie Danielle Pawliw, who notched nine saves in the opening half. 
“I just thought we lacked fo­cus early in the first half,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said. “I think we were taking advan­tage of whatever opportunity presented itself, not necessarily the best opportunities, and we rushed our shots, which is not characteristic of us.” 
After Halfpenny called a timeout midway through the first half, the Irish rediscovered their first spark on offense, as sophomore attack Lindsay Pow­ell scored at the 9:35 mark to end a long scoring drought for Notre Dame. The Irish then fol­lowed it up with three addition­al goals, one coming from senior attack Maggie Tamasitis in the final few seconds of the half, to go into the break tied 5-5. 
Coming into the second half with momentum, the Irish went on a furious scoring run early, notching three goals in the first 90 seconds to widen their lead to 8-5. Powell would then add two consecutive goals for Notre Dame, increasing the team’s lead to 10-5 before Louisville sophomore midfielder Colleen O’Malley ended the Cardinals’ 23-minute scoreless stretch with a goal at the 23:55 mark of the second half. Halfpenny said the team’s scoring run resulted largely from increased patience at the offensive end. 
“I think our shooters, instead of rushing their shots, took an extra second to see the goal and that obviously helped us out,” Halfpenny said. “They con­tained us nicely down to the low angles and once we got the ball moving to the backside a little more, we started to see more success.” 
The Cardinals continued to challenge the Irish down the stretch, outscoring the Irish 6-3 during the last 23:55 of the sec­ond half, but late goals by Powell and sophomore attack Lauren Sullivan iced the game for the Irish, keeping their undefeated record intact. 
The Irish saw eight differ­ent players score in the victory, with Powell and her four goals leading the way. The Irish also received key contributions from Tamasitis, who scored two goals and added four assists to con­tribute six points overall and junior midfielder McKenzie Brown, who notched two goals. Powell attributed her strong of­fensive outburst to strong fun­damentals and sense of team­work present in her fellow team members. 
“It’s our whole team working together that makes me look good when I score goals,” Pow­ell said. “This happened in the second half, when we started playing together as a team and playing our game of lacrosse.” 
Notre Dame also received a stellar showing on the other end of the field from junior goalie Ellie Hilling, who stopped eight shots en route to her seventh-straight win in goal. 
With the win, the Irish im­prove to 7-0 on the year and re­main one of two undefeated pro­grams in the nation, the other being perennial power and top-ranked Northwestern. Despite their early success, Halfpenny said the Irish are not done im­proving and will continue to stay focused on the immediate tasks at hand. 
“Seven games in, I do think we certainly feel a sense of con­fidence, but we’re not done im­proving yet,” Halfpenny said. “Today, we developed a couple more sophomores and freshmen right there during the game. Honestly, 7-0 to us is great, but it’s just a number and just a path, so we’re staying focused on the next game.” 
That next step for Notre Dame will come next weekend when the Irish travel east to face Big East foes Rutgers on Friday and Loyola Maryland on Sunday. basics, I think we’re going to be so we’re going to be ready for 



“We have to get better at successful, but the road doesn’t the next game.” ground balls and some of the get any easier. This team trav­other basics,” Halfpenny said. els really well, and I know how Contact Brian Hartnett at “If we can hammer home our hungry they are for the Big East, bhartnet@nd.edu 
matches a record high in a re-tive group … When we lost last 
Bonnies 

gional semifinal, while St. Bo-year, I think the whole summer naventure’s 35 points marked a workout for them was about continued from page 24 Sweet 16 record-low. getting back and having extra 
“They’re able to get up on motivation to try to get back to McGraw said. “Our goal was you, and then if you do get by that,” she said. to shut down Jenkins, and them, they have great shot Mallory, whose defensive ef-I thought [graduate student blockers and they react really fort prevented Jenkins from guard] Brittany Mallory did well to the ball,” Bonnies coach being a factor in Sunday’s con-an outstanding job, as well Jim Crowley said. “They have test, said last season’s narrow as [senior guard] Fraderica such smart hands, and they loss in the national title game Miller and everybody else that understand how to go for the has given Notre Dame a chip guarded her doing the game … ball … They’re so much bet-on its shoulder despite its No. I thought we forced them into ter in person than on film, and 1 seed in the Raleigh Regional. some turnovers, and did a bet-I thought they were terrific on “The last game last year, ter job on the boards in the film.” we didn’t accomplish what we second half.” After the Irish opened up a wanted, so we’ve really been 
Despite a five-minute, 27-sec-40-point lead with over 10 min-using that as our emphasis this ond scoring drought in the first utes remaining in the second year, really trying to push us period, Notre Dame (33-3, 15-1 half, McGraw substituted her forward,” she said. Big East) rallied past the Bon-bench and junior guard Kaila With the win, Notre Dame nies with runs of 13-2 and Turner took full advantage, advances to the Raleigh Re­20-7 to open up a 22-point lead knocking down a career-high gional finals where it will take heading into the break. Senior four 3-pointers and maintain-on No. 5 Maryland (31-4, 12-4 guard Natalie Novosel scored a ing Notre Dame’s defensive in-ACC), 81-74 winners over Texas game-high 16 points and Kay-tensity. McGraw said this year’s A&M in the first regional semi-la McBride chipped in 10, as squad, from Naismith Trophy final contest. The Terps are 4-1 Notre Dame shot a blistering finalist junior guard Skylar all-time against Notre Dame. 
ers, with 338 over her four 64 percent in the second half. Diggins to the bench, has been Tip-off is slated for 9 p.m. in 
Bench 
seasons with the Bonnies. 
Notre Dame’s remarkable driven to return to the NCAA Raleigh, N.C. “[Turner] was Jenkins all 
defensive effort set multiple tournament finals after falling continued from page 21 week in practice, and she was 
NCAA tournament records. just short in 2011. Contact Chris Masoud at shooting a lot of threes,” Mc-
The 44-point margin of victory “This is a really competi-cmasoud@nd.edu junior guard Kaila Turner, Graw said. “Maybe that’s what freshman forward Markisha we need to do, is have her be Wright and sophomore forward the other team’s best player.” Ariel Braker. Turner said her ability to 
Turner came off the bench, come off the bench and per-played 18 minutes for the Irish form well for the Irish can and scored 14 points. She went also be attributed to the pres­4-for-5 from the 3-point line. sure she faces scrimmaging 
“It felt really good just be-her teammates in practice. cause my teammates and my “I think practice makes it coaching staff have a lot of con-much easier for me because fidence in me, so it felt really we really push each other good not to knock some shots in practice, and I’m going out today,” Turner said. up against some of the best 
Turner scored the second-guards in the country,” she most points for the Irish against said. “So it makes it easier St. Bonaventure, only two coming out and coming off points shy of starting senior the bench and playing against guard Natalie Novosel’s 16. this competition.” 
“It’s really important for Achonwa also came off the [Turner] to come out and do that bench and contributed her for us, and it’s difficult because fair share in Notre Dame’s she doesn’t get a lot of shots,” win, adding nine points and McGraw said. “She’s not going five rebounds as the team’s to get a lot of opportunity; she’s fourth-leading scorer and going to get one or two shots second-leading rebounder in when she comes in the game the victory. because we have so many other “It was a total team effort scorers. Today was a great day today,” Irish junior guard for her, and the whole team gets Skylar Diggins said. “Build­excited to see her score.” ing such a big lead early was a 
Turner’s performance be-good thing for us. A lot of our hind the 3-point line mirrored players were able to rotate what the Irish expected from in, and I feel that is going to St. Bonaventures’ senior guard be key going into Tuesday’s Jessica Jenkins, who concluded game.” her collegiate basketball career with the most career 3-pointers Contact Molly Sammon at in the nation among active play-msammon@nd.edu 
hold on, despite the awak-“I hope that [the play­ened Panther bats. ers] draw some confidence 
Sweep 

“I thought we put so much from [the series],” he said. pressure on their pitching “I think we saw some kids staff to have to make pitch-[Sunday] to be perfectly hon-with a squeeze bunt the next es, and credit to them be-est that had first-time-in­at-bat. cause they did in a lot of sit-the-conference butterflies 
Notre Dame completed the uations,” he said. “The kids … I thought it was a situa­sweep Sunday, as it held on played great, they competed tion where we can build on despite a late Pittsburgh great, it was a really good it and hopefully move for-rally to win 7-5. The Irish weekend.” ward.” scored three runs in the Aoki said the Irish will en-Notre Dame and Illinois-first inning for the second joy the victory before suit-Chicago will face off Tues-consecutive game and added ing up Tuesday at Illinois-day, with the first pitch slat-three insurance runs in the Chicago, with Notre Dame ed for 7:05 p.m. bottom of the eighth. Aoki looking for its sixth-consec­said Notre Dame’s timely utive victory after a perfect Contact andrew owens at hitting helped the squad homestand. aowens2@nd.edu 





games against Stanford and ing class after decommitting Florida State, said he is still from LSU at the last minute in 
Starter 

learning and improving. January. The six-foot-four Co­“I’m better today than I was lumbus, Ind., native said the continued from page 24 yesterday,” Hendrix said. “Ev-team welcomed him with open 
ery mistake I make, I learn arms. on naming a starter and said from. Every single rep I take, “The quarterbacks have there may be more than one. I’m taking mental reps like been great to me and have 
“I believe there’s going to I’ve never taken before.” welcomed me,” Kiel said. “And be more than one quarter-In limited action in just five that goes along with all the back,” Kelly said. “I think games, Hendrix threw for 249 guys. They have been so great. if there’s no clear break as yards, one touchdown and two When I first got here, no one we go through the spring, I interceptions. He also ran for asked me any questions about think this process continues 162 yards, good for third-best LSU. They just knew they were to evolve as we work through on the team. glad to have me on their team. preseason camp.” “I’m extremely confident in To have that family atmo-
Kelly said he wants the my own ability,” Hendrix said. sphere is huge and made me quarterbacks to cut down “Right now, I’m just doing the feel very part of the team very on the turnovers and mini-absolute best that I can. I’m quickly.” mize mistakes a year after having a blast out there. I’m the Irish committed 29 turn-starting to understand. The Running backs impress overs — ranking 110th in the pieces are starting to fall into Junior running back Theo country. place for me as I watch plays Riddick, who is making the 
“We’re a lot more deci-develop. I’m starting to get it transition from wide receiv­sive with the football [this and that’s really exciting for er to the backfield, split reps spring],” Kelly said. “We’ve me. with freshman running back told our quarterbacks, ‘Be “Every guy obviously thinks George Atkinson III during the eraser of a bad play.’ they’re the best. If you don’t Saturday’s practice. They’re understanding that think you’re the best, then you Riddick broke a few long if they take care of the foot-should probably just not come runs during the scrimmage, ball, they’ve got a chance to to practice.” including one where he tried be very successful.” Golson, like Hendrix, sat out to run over junior safety Zeke 
Rees, who started the fi-his first year on campus and Motta. He also had a long nal 12 games in 2011 for the views the experience as a posi-run that ended when he was Irish, enters camp as the in-tive one. pushed out of bounds at the cumbent after throwing for “[Sitting out last year] was opposition’s 10-yard line. 2,871 yards and 20 touch-a blessing,” Golson said. “Be-“[Riddick] did some good downs, but with 14 intercep-ing on scout team and going things today,” Kelly said. “He 
corded seven saves and helped tions. against the first-team defense caught the ball out of the back­

“I think [my experience] is helped me out a lot. I got used field. He really gives us such Corrigan said he is always 
Rutgers 
the Irish hold on for the win. 

something that is pretty valu-to the speed of the game real great options as it relates to continued from page 24 satisfied with a win and is 
able,” Rees said. “It just adds quick. I think the only thing I matchups, coming out of the pleased to be 6-1, but he 
some comfort level out there was lacking after that was the backfield, running the foot-the lead to 7-5. Irish coach knows the Irish didn’t play as 
when you start going live and footwork.” ball. Kevin Corrigan said Rutgers’ well as they could have. 
start doing some things.” Golson said he also devel-“He’s got that background as second-quarter resurgence was “I’m a little torn on this one,” 
Kelly and new Irish of-oped rapport with some of the a receiver, really puts him in a a result of poor defense, espe-Corrigan said. “It’s always 
fensive coordinator Chuck scout team wide receivers, in-good position to help our foot­cially against picks. good to get a win — and for 
Martin have simplified the cluding spring standout fresh-ball field.” “Our pick play is very frus-us to go through a week and 
offense to make for a fairer man DaVaris Daniels, which Atkinson also received car­trating right now and we don’t get three wins in eight days is 
competition between the can help him make a smooth ries during the scrimmage think it’s very complicated, but really good so I don’t want to 
four candidates. Although a transition into the starting job. with junior running back we’re not executing and that’s be too down on our guys but 
change like this may seem While Golson has adjusted to Cierre Wood out with a minor getting us in trouble,” Corri-I’m very disappointed in the 
to take an advantage away the speed of the college game, leg injury. gan said. “We’re struggling in consistency of our play today. 
from an experienced player Kiel has not yet. “We really wanted to see some other areas too on defense At this point in the year, we 
like Rees, he said it has been “The speed of the game is George today,” Kelly said. that we should be better at and should be better in some ar­
helpful. ten-times faster and the guys “This is really George Atkin­we’re not.” eas where we’re not. I’m glad 
“I’ve been in this offense are a lot better,” Kiel said. “It’s son’s opportunity to get a lot of The third quarter consisted we’ll have a chance this week 
for two years now,” Rees said. a lot different but for this be-reps. It was nice to see him do of more back-and-forth action, to go back and address those 
“There’s not much they could ing the third practice, I think a nice job.” as the Irish couldn’t break away things we know we can do but 
put in that I haven’t run. The it is going pretty well. I’m fi-Kelly said he was pleased from the Scarlet Knights. we’re just not doing every time 
process of what we’ve been nally starting to get into it and with a running attack that Rogers scored the second of … We’re thrilled to be 6-1 and 
putting in has been really getting into a routine.” saw the first 17 rushes go for his four goals — all of which in a position now with a little 
good and it’s been helpful to Kiel — the nation’s top-rated at least seven yards. came in the second half — time this week to focus on get-
all the guys, learning-wise.” high school quarterback — with 3:33 to go in the quarter ting better.” 
Hendrix, who received was a late addition to Notre Contact Matthew DeFranks at to give Notre Dame a two-goal The Irish are back in action 
significant playing time in Dame’s incoming recruit-mdefrank@nd.edu lead. That lead was short-lived, Sunday at 1 p.m. when they though, as DePaolera came travel to East Rutherford, N.J., from the behind the Irish cage to take on St. John’s in the Big with just 16 seconds to go and City Classic. scored to cut the Notre Dame lead to one. Contact Mike Monaco at 
The Irish pulled away at the jmonaco@nd.edu start of the fourth quarter, as Marlatt and Rogers each scored in the first three minutes of the period to give Notre Dame some breathing room. 
“We just knew we had to win the [fourth] quarter,” Rogers said. “With our defense, we knew if we could put some goals on the board it would be harder for [Rutgers]. We had a couple good bounces and we were able to finish our chances.” 
Notre Dame dominated the ground ball battle 38-19 and repeatedly came up with loose balls in the offensive zone, giv­ing the offense more chances. Rogers, who led the Irish with four points against Rutgers for the second consecutive year, converted two of those oppor­tunities into goals in the fourth quarter. 
“It was good to get the better of the ground ball play in the second half,” Corrigan said. “I thought that was a very impor­tant part of the game, because we made some plays out of those ground balls that ended up being big.” 
Notre Dame had to fight off two penalties in the final frame, but junior goalie John Kemp and the rest of the Irish defense were up to the task. Kemp re­



CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUgENIA LAST 



HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE KELLy LyNCH 
MIKE ARgIRION 

THE LONDON EXPRESS JAMES SOLLITTO, CODy ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEy 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, March 26, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Bonnies held to Sweet 16 record-low 35 points 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Senior Sports Writer 
Raleigh, N.C. — No double-doubles, no highlight-reel baskets and no exciting lead changes. No. 4 Notre Dame’s 79-35 victory over No. 21 St. Bonaventure in the semifinals of the NCAA tournament’s Ra­leigh Regional was simply a ca­sual, dominant defensive per­formance from the opening tip. 
The Irish defense never re­linquished, forcing 21 turn­overs and holding St. Bonaven­ture (31-4, 14-0 Atlantic 10) to just nine field goals, the fewest ever in an NCAA tournament game. Averaging 14.3 points per game, Bonnies leading scorer senior Jessica Jenkins was held scoreless for this first time this season. 
“I’m really pleased with our defense,” Irish coach Muffet 
see BONNIES/page 21 

Elite Eight bound 

Bench contributes to Sweet 16 win 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Senior Sports Writer 
Raleigh, N.C. — Notre Dame took the opportunity to test its bench in its 79-35 win over St. Bonaventure on Sunday, quali­fying for the Elite Eight, while several nonstarters received significant playing minutes, a rarity in Sweet 16 competition. 
Each player contributed at least eight minutes of time on the court to keep the starters rested and the back-ups well-versed in competitive situations as the tournament continues. 
“When you go down through the team, you realize that they are all the type of player that just hates to lose,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Thirty-one of Notre Dame’s 79 points came from five differ­ent non-starting players: sopho­more forward Natalie Achonwa, senior guard Fraderica Miller, 
see BENCH/page 21 
BASEBALL 

First Big East series brings sweep of Pittsburgh 
By ANDREW OWENS East) won 6-5 Friday in dra-ning, but rallied back to tie Junior pitcher Adam Nor-no fear about putting his Assistant Managing Editor matic fashion, with a lead-the contest on a one-out, ton followed Bull’s perfor-stuff in the strike zone. He 
off, walk-off home run by two-run double by sopho-mance with a stellar out-doesn’t seem to get rattled … 
Due to a strong showing freshman right fielder Ryan more first baseman Trey ing on the mound in Notre I really think, from a num­from their pitching staff and Bull. Mancini. Dame’s 3-2 win Saturday. bers standpoint, we’re a lit-timely hitting throughout “It was a great experi-“I just think it was an The right-hander tossed tle behind what those guys the weekend, the Irish swept ence,” he said. “I had never overall really good team ef-8.1 innings of five-hit ball, did last year, but they’re ev-Pittsburgh in a perfect 3-0 done something like that fort,” Bull said. “Everybody yielding only two first-in-ery bit as effective.” start to conference play. before. It was really exhila-contributed in a positive ning runs. All five of the The Irish erased a 2-0 def-
The sweep gave the squad rating and my parents were manner and we were string-game’s runs were scored in icit in the bottom of the first its first home sweep to open here [from Minnesota], so ing hits together, putting up the first inning. with a two-run single from Big East play since 1998 and I’m just glad they could see some runs and when some-“[Our pitchers] are strike-junior catcher Joe Hudson. the first sweep overall to be-it.” body may have had a play throwers and I think all Senior infielder Tommy gin its conference schedule The Irish trailed the Pan-that wasn’t so hot, somebody three are great competitors, Chase gave Notre Dame a since 2008, with both series thers (10-11, 0-3) by four else was there to pick them in particular Norty,” Irish lead it would not relinquish coming against Georgetown. runs in the fourth inning up and we were all contrib-coach Mik Aoki said. “He 
Notre Dame (15-7, 3-0 Big and two in the eighth in-uting.” just goes out there and has see SWEEP/page 21 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish beat Rutgers, continue win streak 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
In their Big East Conference opener, the No. 6 Irish beat Rut­gers 12-9 at Arlotta Stadium on Sunday to win their fifth-con­secutive game. 
Notre Dame (6-1, 1-0) explod­ed for five first-quarter goals from five different players and got out to an early lead against the Scarlet Knights (4-5, 0-2). Sophomore midfielder Jim Mar­latt scored an unassisted goal less than 90 seconds into the game and the Irish didn’t look back as they concluded the first quarter leading 5-1. Senior at­tack Sean Rogers said the key to the quick start was simply ex­ecuting the game plan. 
“We had a general idea of what we wanted to do coming in and what plays we wanted to execute against [Rutgers],” Rogers said. “Our offense did a great job running those to completion at the start of the game and we were able to fin­ish all our opportunities.” 
The Scarlet Knights came out aggressively in the second quarter and fired 11 shots af­ter only recording six in the first frame. Senior midfielder Will Mangan and sophomore attack Nicholas DePaolera led the charge with two goals each and helped Rutgers cut 
see RUTGERS/page 22 
FOOTBALL 

Quarterback competition continues 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor 
For the first time since its 18-14 loss to Florida State in December’s Champs Sports Bowl, Notre Dame suited up in full pads for Saturday’s practice. And all eyes were on the quarterbacks — all four of them. 
Juniors Tommy Rees and Andrew Hendrix, sopho­more Everett Golson and freshman-enrollee Gunner Kiel all took snaps with the first-team offense during Saturday’s scrimmage that included a heavy dose of the run game. 
Irish coach Brian Kelly has not placed a timetable 
see STARTER/page 22 


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Sophomore quarterback Andrew Hendrix takes a snap during spring practice Saturday at LaBar Practice Fields. 




