The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 52 | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ELECTION 2012 

Implications of Obama’s second term analyzed 
Experts provide insight on next four years 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
news editor 

in the next four years of his presidency, barack obama will expand on the efforts of his first term in office. but he wouldn’t have had the oppor­tunity to do so without a broad national base of support. 
in terms of the immediate results of the election, politi­cal science professor darren davis said obama’s mainte­nance of his 2008 electorate contributed to his reelection. 
see elecTion PAGE 6 




Students react to election results with mixed feelings 
By ANNA BOARINI 
news writer 

much like the rest of the country, the reactions of notre dame and saint mary’s students to the outcome of the 2012 presidential elec­tion spanned the political spectrum. 
For saint mary’s senior liz craney, president barack obama’s reelection was a positive outcome. 
“The issues that mean the most to me, my views line 
see reacTion PAGE 7 



Panel explores coeducation at Notre Dame 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 
“it was like running a gauntlet, every single day.” 
Jeanine sterling, a 1976 alum­na and member of the first fully coeducated notre dame fresh­man class, dealt with the im­pact of gender integration at the university firsthand. 
“we were very young, so the bombardment of mixed mes­sages the girls received was very disconcerting,” sterling said. “on one hand, we were treated as someone very special … but then the reporters and the cam­eras left town and the banner went down and then reality hit.” 
sterling spoke at the eck visitor center Thursday in a panel discussion titled “paving the way: reflections on the early years of coeducation at notre dame,” commemorating the 40th anniversary of coeducation at the university. 
The panel, sponsored by the cushwa center for the study of american catholicism, opened with a recorded comment from university president emeritus Fr. Ted hesburgh, who com­mended all involved in the co­education process. 
“This was a great male bas­tion and no one thought it could possibly assimilate women,” hesburgh said. “i’m just delight­ed that we are a better university, better catholic university, better modern university because we have women as well as men in the mix.” 
dr. susan poulson, history professor at the university of scranton and co-editor of “going coed: women’s experiences in Formerly men’s colleges and universities, 1950 – 2000,” be­gan the discussion by presenting findings from her research ex­ploring women’s experiences of coeducation.  
see panel PAGE 5 



Football hits 1993’s record 
By TORI ROECK 
news writer 
9-0. 
To those notre dame alum­ni who were here during the 1993 football season, this re­cord feels familiar. on nov. 13, 1993, a 9-0 Fighting irish team ranked no. 2 in the country defeated no. 1 ranked Florida state at home, 31-24, in the “game of the century,” and the no. 1 sign atop grace hall lit up the next day. 

“i’ll never forget after we won the game when that no. 1 lit up,” 1994 alum steve camilleri said. “it wasn’t there for very long, but to have that no. 1 light up when you’re a student at notre dame, espe­cially during your senior year 
— it’s really special.” 
one week later, boston college dashed the 10-0 irish’s hopes for an undefeated sea­son on a game-winning field goal in the final seconds of the game, and the no. 1 light went out. 
“[at the boston college game] there was a sense of ex­haustion i think all around in the student body, in the fans and in the team, because the Florida state game had been such an effort and such an undertaking for everyone,” 1994 alum and university 
see Fans PAGE 5 


professors discuss ‘sexuality 101’ 
By KATIE CARLISLE 
news writer 
in response to a controversial upcoming lecture addressing sex­ual orientation and the church, five saint mary’s professors presented their thoughts on this issue as part of “sexuality 101”in spes unica hall Thursday evening. 
psychology professors catherine pittman, rebecca stoddart, bettina spencer, religious studies profes­sor stacy davis and global studies professor laura elder defined sex, gender roles and sexual orienta­tion and discussed the topic within an interdisciplinary context that 
see seXualiTy PAGE 4 


sTudenT gov PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 9 scene PAGE 10 men’s baskeTball PAGE 20 women’s baskeTball PAGE 20 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 





QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What is your biggest guilty pleasure television show? 

Alex La 
sophomore 
sorin college 
“The bachelor.” 

Andrew Taniguchi 
senior 
alumni hall 
“my [super] sweet sixteen.” 

Griffin Smith 
sophomore 
sorin college 
“glee.” 



Jennifer Prather 
senior opus hall 
“Jag.” 


Kelsey Weber 
sophomore 
ryan hall 

“The bachelor and The bachelorette.” 

Megan Braconnier 
sophomore 
ryan hall 

“my big Fat gypsy wedding.” 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
kristen durbin sam gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
annmarie Jakubowski isaac lorton maddie daly Joseph monardo 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
sara shoemake carrie Turek 


Photo Viewpoint 

“We Are Made of Asian Allure “The Servant of Two Lecture: “The  Maya Blood Drive 
kirby mckenna dan brombach 
Star Stuff” Washington Hall Masters” Mysteries” Geddes Hall Jordan Hall 5:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Hall 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Celebrate Asian Arts Center 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Sponsored by the 


Corrections 

Digital Visualization heritage and culture. 2:30 p.m.-5 p.m. Study on archaeology, Graduate Student 
The observer regards itself as Theater show. $10 at the door. Play by Carlo Goldini. prophecy and fantasy. Union. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Lecture: “Ethics in Film: “Chicken with Film: “Grand Illusion” Veteran’s Day Film: “Asterix chez 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Contemporary Irish Plums” DeBartolo Performing Ceremony les Bretons” 
however, recognize that we will make 
Journalism” DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Fieldhouse Mall 329 DeBartolo Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
424 Flanner Hall Arts Center 3 p.m. 5 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
3 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-8 p.m. Directed by Jean Follows a 24-hour vigil. Dinner, screening and 
we can correct our error. 

Irish studies talk. $4 for students. Renoir. Open to the public. discussion. 




Students reach out to city 
By MADDIE DALY 
news writer 
under the leadership of president brett rocheleau, vice president katie rose and chief of staff katie baker, this year’s student government has worked vigorously to ac­complish five specific goals for the university by collaborat­ing with on- and off-campus organizations.  
baker outlined these goals on behalf of the group and discussed its accomplish­ments and current projects in progress. 
in order to increase the safe­ty of all students and modern­ize the university, baker said members of student govern­ment have collaborated with the call to action movement, the 4 to 5 movement, core council and the office of student affairs. 
“[student government] partnered with the call to action movement to advo­cate for improved resources for historically underrepre­sented students, deepen the university’s commitment to diversity and implement a one-stop shop for reporting of discriminatory harassment,” baker said. 
The administration also aims to deepen the rela­tionship between students and residents of south bend through collaboration with campus and local leaders, baker said. 

“hosting a community summit in downtown south bend [brought] together city and university leaders in an effort to deepen relationships between local colleges and universities and the south bend community,” she said. 

“Hosting a Community Summit in Downtown South Bend [brought] together city and University leaders in an effort to deepen relationships between local colleges and universities and the South Bend community.” 
Katie Baker 
chief of staff 
Student Government 

To accomplish the goal of globalizing the university, baker said student govern­ment has worked with the career center and various on-campus institutions to centralize resources regard­ing international summer and post-graduate opportunities for students. 
paid adverTisemenT 

although the administra­tion has kept busy working to make progress toward achiev­ing these goals during the first half of the semester, baker said additional projects and initiatives are slated for the rest of the year. 
such initiatives include launching a website to central­ize all service opportunities for students, creating an end hunger booklet to aid people in the south bend commu­nity who use food stamps to make healthy eating, working with the office of auxiliary operations to implement domer dollars at off-campus retailers and working with the community to improve visibil­ity of crosswalks to off-campus destinations. 
in response to these con­cerns, off-campus council president katie kehl said the organization will host a “know your rights” question­and-answer session monday at 4 p.m. in the montgomery auditorium of the laFortune student center. 
“while geared towards off-campus students, everyone is welcome to hear brooks grainger, a lawyer from krisor & associates, speak of student off-campus rights,” kehl said. 
students can email any ques­tions they would like answered at the forum to occ@nd.edu. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 


alumni choose paths in service 

By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
For many college seniors, there seem to be only two op­tions for life after graduation: getting a job or continuing ed­ucation. however there exists a third option, postgraduate service, especially popular for university of notre dame students. 
2011 alumna catherine scallen is currently a recruit­ment associate for catholic volunteer network. catholic volunteer network is an or­ganization of service pro­grams that “fosters and promotes full-time national and international service op­portunities for people of all backgrounds, ages and skills,” according to the organiza­tion’s website. 
“catholic volunteer network supports and en­hances the work of its mem­bership by providing training and resources, network­ing opportunities, and na­tional advocacy,” it states in the organization’s mission statement.“The recruitment associate position is a six-month program for two stu­dents who have just finished postgraduate service,” scallen said. 
in this position, scallen and the other associate travel to different schools around the country and talk about their personal volunteering experiences. 
“we’re essentially road-warriors,” she said. 
For a year after gradua­tion, scallen worked with good shepherd volunteers as a marketing assistant at handcrafting Justice, an or­ganization dedicated to eco­nomic justice and fair trade products. at the end of her year of service, scallen began looking for “real” job options, she said. 
“The service year is a very intense immersion experi­ence, but i didn’t feel that i was done processing my ex­perience and no jobs stood out to me,” scallen said, 
scallen said she likes the mission-oriented nature of the job at the catholic volunteer network, as well as getting to work with service program di­rectors and coordinators. 
“i love getting to spend more time with these people, who are so unique”, she said. 
scallen, who studied spanish and american studies, says her involve­ment in many of the center for social concerns programs as an undergraduate encour­aged her to pursue postgradu­ate service opportunities. 
“i did a summer service learning program between my freshman and sopho­more years, and it got me hooked,” she said. “i did an urban plunge, and between my junior and senior years i interned at a nonprofit in minnesota.” 
To students considering postgraduate service, scallen said she highly recommends getting involved as an under­graduate, utilizing the notre dame alumni network and doing research. 

Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Saint Mary’s welcomes senior dads to campus 
College hosts three-day event to offer seniors father-daughter bonding experience 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
This weekend, saint mary’s will wel­come men from all over the country as fathers arrive on campus for senior dads weekend, a three-day long event that encourages fathers to reconnect with their daughters through both or­ganized and informal activities. 
senior sarah huser said she is look­ing forward to sharing her college ex­perience with her father for a few days. 
“it’s not something most college students get to do. i feel like the saint mary’s community extends beyond the student body and the professors;, it encompasses each person’s family,” she said. “i’m excited to let him experi­ence first-hand why i love saint mary’s so much.” 
senior and elkhart native mara scott said she plans to give her father a personal tour of campus as well, even 


Sexuality 
conTinued From page 1 
included biological, environmental and cultural explanations for hu­man sexuality. 
pittman said the event, sponsored by the psychology department, provided a necessary source of information from the op­posite side of a highly contested public debate that will come into fo­cus during the nov. 13 Theology on Fire lecture, titled “The church and same-sex attraction” and featur­ing dr. philip sutton, a psychologist and marriage and family therapist. 
“when we learned about the lec­ture hosted by campus ministry, the psychology department was concerned about why he was cho­sen to represent the catholic view­point,” pittman said. 
sutton’s approach to same-sex at­traction therapy does not coincide with widely held views on the issue, pittman said. 
“in the psychology department, we’re aware of what the standards of treatment are, and his [sutton’s] practices are contrary to every or­ganization that offers therapy,” she said. 
The multifaceted nature of sex­ual orientation makes it difficult to study and draw conclusions, elder said. 
spencer said such controver­sial events as sutton’s upcoming lecture often isolate lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and ques­tioning (lgbTQ) students, so she encouraged the saint mary’s com­munity to consider the importance of campus climate to lgbTQ stu­dents and how it impacts their col­lege experiences. 
student diversity board president maggie galvin said the event pre­pared student attendees for sutton’s visit to campus next week. 
“i thought this event was great and so informative.  even if half of the girls who came tonight go to [sutton’s] event they’ll bring edu­cated and knowledgeable ques­tions,” she said. 
Contact Katie Carlisle at kcarli02@saintmarys.edu 
though she sees her parents about once a week. 
“it’ll be fun to show him around and literally walk through my daily sched­ule with him,” scott said. “he’s not as involved in my college life so it’s nice to involve him in it on my own terms.” 
scott said she is also interested to meet the male role models who have influenced her peers. 
“i’m so used to talking with my friends’ moms and having them talk to my mom, but i haven’t even met most of my friends’ dads. i’m not sure what to expect. it will be a good envi­ronment because we’re doing manly things, like the beer tasting,” scott said. “i plan on tailgating and then going to a screening of the football game in vandervennet Theatre.” 
senior maggie galvin said her father hasn’t visited saint mary’s since her older sister’s graduation two years ago. 
“i seriously just got off the phone with him about [this weekend],” galvin said. “he loves spending qual­ity time with me. i’m definitely daddy’s little girl.” 
The weekend’s official events in­clude evening entertainment in noble Family dining hall, “The secret garden,” a game watch and a mass. 
“i’m pumped for the beer garden,” galvin said. “i think my goal of the weekend is to make my dad feel like he’s back at school and living it up with his frat.” 
scott said she is most enthusiastic about the hypnotist featured in the dining hall Friday night. 
“i’m hoping it’s the one that they’ve had at nd. i’ve been to three shows over there and it seems so fun and un­usual,” she said. “i want my dad to be hypnotized!” 
in comparison with her moms weekend experience, senior nicole deroche said she anticipates a more laid-back, “carefree” weekend with her father. 
“i would probably shop with my mom, whereas my dad and i will most likely go to the Football hall of Fame, out to eat and then out to bars,” deroche said. “my dad’s a notre dame alum, and he’s eager to return to his old stomping ground and show me where he used to party.” 
while senior dads weekend is a privilege for saint mary’s students, it also marks the beginning of the end of their time at the college. 
“it’s one of the things that i’ve looked forward to since freshman year,” galvin said. “so it’s almost surreal for both me and my parents for me to be in my last year of school. when i started college [my dad] told me it was just going to fly by and here i am … ap­proaching an event that already marks the end of it.” 
huser said her father is apprehensive about her impending graduation. 
“honestly, the weekend is probably more important to him than it is to me. i’m excited about being a senior and he isn’t,” huser said. “i’m moving out of the house officially in six months and as much as he respects the person who i have become, there’s no doubt he’s missing the little girl who always ran up to him in the driveway when he pulled in on his truck.” 
For deroche, this weekend repre­sents a unique father-daughter bond­ing experience. 
“we’ll definitely be having a lot of ‘what’s happening next’ conversa­tions,” deroche said. “it’s a special time for my father because it will prob­ably be the last organized event we’ll ever do together, besides the father-daughter dance at marriage.” 


Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 





Fans 
conTinued From page 1 
photographer matt cashore said. “i think everyone was just a little flat.” 
as this year’s 9-0 team trav­els to chestnut hill, mass., to reprise the “holy war” on saturday, camilleri said he ex­pects a different result. 
“This notre dame team that we’re putting on the field saturday night in boston is not going to lose to this boston college team,” camilleri said. “it’s just not going to happen.” 
despite hopes for a win over boston college this year, camilleri said he sees a lot of parallels between his senior football season and this one. 
“i’ve been in the stands at all the home games this year. i was at the game in chicago when we played miami, and i just felt a lot like i did back in 1993,” he said. “There’s just a real excitement and an energy that’s as heightened as it’s ever been since 1993.” 
while previous notre dame teams in the late 1980s and ear­ly 1990s had been consistently ranked in the top 10, cashore said students expected the 1993 season to be a “wait and see year.” Quarterback rick mirer had just graduated, and promising freshman quarter­back ron powlus had broken his collarbone before the sea­son began. 
but senior quarterback kevin mcdougal shone in the second game of the sea­son with a 27-23 win against michigan, a game notre dame was expected to lose, and cashore said that changed the momentum of the season. 
“They didn’t expect much out of kevin mcdougal, and the michigan game was his chance to show what he could do and the team’s chance to show that they were going to 

“There’s just a real excitement and an energy that’s as heightened as it’s ever been since 1993.” 
Steve Camilleri 
Notre Dame class of 1994 
exceed expectations,” cashore said. 
many fans also began this season skeptical of the team’s ability and uncertain over who would be taking the snaps. 



This time sophomore quar­terback everett golson stepped up to show he could lead the offense, camilleri said. 
“The way the team bounced back last weekend against pittsburgh, they found a way to win,” he said. “everett golson found a way to win.” 
confident in golson’s leadership, many fans start­ed looking forward to a na­tional championship as this year’s undefeated record continues, just as in 1993. 
“everyone was going ahead booking plane res­ervations for whatever the bowl game would be for the national championship … and suddenly snapped awake in the fourth quar­ter [of the boston college game],” cashore said. 
while the loss to boston 
college  didn’t  completely  
squash  the  1993  team’s  
chances  for  a  national  

championship, Florida state ended up winning, despite a loss to the irish earlier in the season. 
“we felt like we deserved to be the national champion because we beat the team that became the national champion,” camilleri said. “we were disappointed, but we weren’t disappointed in our team. we were disap­pointed in how our team got voted. i think some of us still think we were the na­tional champion that year.” 
cashore said most stu­dents’ reaction to the na­tional championship snub was to say, “we’ll be back.” 
“There was a sense that … this is a place that will always be in contention for a national champion­ship,” cashore said. “we certainly didn’t have the sense of, ‘well, that was the last chance for 20 years to do that.’ … no one foresaw the bad string of almost 20 years that happened.” 
while the pressure is on for the 2012 team to reclaim the national championship title that was just out of reach for their 1993 counter­parts, camilleri, executive director of the south bend center for the homeless, said win or lose, the two notre dame football teams are united by their play­ers’ unique concern for the community. 
“i’ve been fortunate to get to know some of the players because they volunteer at the center for the homeless. … They are just an incred­ible group,” camilleri said. “much like the team i knew in ’93 who were friends of mine, this team is very deeply involved in helping out their surrounding com­munity, and that is one of the best comparisons we can make.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 




Panel 
conTinued From page 1 
Fr. Thomas blantz, professor of history and former vice presi­dent of student affairs, said the university began coeducation by admitting 325 undergraduate women in the fall of 1972, after a failed merger with saint mary’s college. 
kathleen cekanski-Farrand, attorney for the south bend city council for 38 years, previously served as rector of badin and breen-phillips halls while teach­ing law during the early years of coeducation. she said she ap­preciated the work of prominent university figures like Fr. blantz and Fr. hesburgh to provide sup­port for female students. 
“The one thing that we all talked about was the lack of role models in the dorm,” she said. “i can remember Fr. Ted saying very vividly that the best role model is on top of the golden dome.” 
The panelists who experienced coeducation as undergraduate students shared their personal experiences of the integration of women at notre dame. 
sterling said life as the new minority on campus was diffi­cult to swallow. 
“suddenly you’re the only girl in a classroom full of 30, you have upperclassmen telling you that you’re not welcome at notre dame, you hear a lot of alumni are angry, there are guys in south dining hall waving score cards rating your looks,” she said. “on that first football saturday, a crowd of alumni stood silently watching each of us emerge to go to breakfast.” 
double domer ann Therese darin, an attorney and journal­ist, was The observer’s first fe­male news editor and received the sigma delta chi award for her reporting on notre dame co­education. darin also authored the book “Thanking Father Ted: Thirty-Five years of notre dame coeducation,” which is distributed to all female under­graduates upon entering the university. 
during the earliest days of coeducation, darin said “weird things happened.” 
“one of my best friends was kicked out of a required class for her government major repeated­ly … because the professor said he had never taught a woman and he wasn’t going to start,” she said.  “For two weeks, all that she did was bounce between dean waddick’s office and the class like a ping-pong ball and finally, she couldn’t take it anymore.” 
darin said her friend’s brother advised her to work for the top grade in the class on the first quiz so the professor would stop dismissing her from class. 
“she ended up getting the top grade in the class in the spring. amazingly, she wasn’t the only one of my classmates to experi­ence this,” she said. 
humor was the only antidote to the unfair treatment, darin said. 
“a sense of humor went a long way, particularly when you were called in class and the professor said ‘mr.!’ and he was talking to you, or asked for the ‘woman’s point of view’ and was looking directly at you,” she said. 
darin said women worked hard to assimilate into main­stream, masculine notre dame culture. 
“one of the basic ways to fit in, when you were one out of 20, was to dress like guys,” darin said. “To dress like a woman at any time other than a football week­end was just inviting trouble.” 
dan reagan, a 1976 alumnus and former associate vice presi­dent for university relations, said he was ecstatic to be a mem­ber of the first coeducated class, but many of his classmates were not prepared for the maturity of the 125 women. 
“The boys … seemed to fall into three categories: the per­centage that felt women had taken their space … the little larger percentage were ready to strut their stuff and sweep you off your feet … the third group … was a bit oblivious, was more concerned with just plain being guys,” reagan said. “we notre dame men knew that the notre dame women were smart … more prepared, definitely more mature …we were intimidated.” 
The intimidation factor set the tone for awkward gender rela­tions, reagan said. 
“what do large groups of in­timidated males do?  They try to be funny, try to take advan­tage of large numbers, they lose sight of decorum,” he said. “The groupthink would take over, es­pecially in those early years.” 
reagan said the precedent set by the first group of brave wom­en continues to pay dividends today. 
“you have changed the place its people, maybe in ways you don’t think about,” he said. “i guarantee as we raised our daughters we had you in mind as the role models: strong, faithful, smart, loyal … you prepared us to be fathers to the future wom­en of notre dame, and you need to be thanked for that.” 

Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

of victory reflects a “problem house in 2016, there are things our most central problems?” the american people, explain-


Election 

in american politics.” they need to do, but whether he said. ing leadership and reasons 
conTinued From page 1 

“There is a partisan cleav-they can do it is a different but arnold said the president behind choices, and obama 
“looking at the results, i age in which democrats have story.” will likely be more flexible on simply wasn’t doing that. That think what stands out is the the advantage because their That party identity will also policy in his second term with-was a really striking failure,” remnants of obama’s electoral demography is the emerging factor into the basic function out considering his prospects he said. coalition from 2008,” davis national demography,” arnold of the government’s legislative for reelection. “now that obama seems to said. “it was reduced … but said. branch, arnold said. “now that he’s not facing re-realize his weakness, i think there were still those signs of davis and arnold said the “we’re still in a real pickle re-election, you’re going to find we’ll get a president who is an intact coalition that got him outcome of the election re-garding governance because of that obama is more flexible more aware and more com-elected.” vealed the republican party’s the polarization of the parties than in his first term and will-mitted to the explanation of 
Just as in 2008, davis said primary weakness in appeal-and the republican control of ing to make deals if he can find his leadership to the american obama performed well among ing to a broad electorate, as the house,” he said. “The stra-republicans willing to make people. presidents are suc­young voters, women, african-evidenced by the president’s tegic problem for obama is still deals with him,” arnold said. cessful because they explain americans and latinos but sweep of all battleground figuring out how to do business “but the republicans in the themselves well and have a garnered little support from states except north carolina. with house republicans.” house right now are so ideo-narrative, not necessarily be-white male voters. but both professors said arnold said collaboration logical that it will be a real cause of what’s happening be-
political science professor strengthening that weakness between congress and the challenge for him.” hind closed doors.” peri arnold said republican by 2016 will prove challenging. president will be necessary to despite that challenge, davis as the president transi­gov. mitt romney’s reliance “The real dilemma for the address the nation’s impend-said the reduction of pressure tions into his second term, on white voter support — exit republican party … may be ing economic issues. on obama will impact the arnold said obama must take polls showed 89 percent of more than a matter of what “The initial posture of the president’s governing style. care to consider the second­romney’s total votes came kind of candidate they put for-republicans in the house is “i think you’re going to see a term precedent set by former from white voters — does not ward,” arnold said. “it may be that they don’t plan to be very different barack obama in his commanders-in-chief. bode well for his party’s future. more of a deep cultural matter flexible, especially in terms of second term. his presidential “we as americans and 
“That’s a bad sign because because the republican party a fiscal policy deal to avert the style and character are going obama as a second-term presi­we are quickly becoming a mi-is old, religious and white, coming fiscal cliff, so that’s to become more assertive and dent ought to be wary of the nority majority country, so the which is not very appealing cause for immediate worry,” aggressive,” davis said. “he’ll historical pattern of traps and problem for republicans that as america becomes less re-he said. identify areas where he would crises for second-term presi­emerges is that they do very ligious, less white and more continuing disagreements like to have a substantial im-dents,” arnold said. “more well in oklahoma, so to speak, diverse.” about marginal tax rates and pact and focus on those things. than anything else, it’s a ten-but oklahoma is not the future “it’s one thing for people to the dramatic drop in the stock he has to think in terms of his dency towards overconfidence of america,” arnold said. “The suggest that the republican market over the past two days legacy.” because they don’t have to run election seems to suggest kind party needs to moderate and also raise questions about but in order to become a again and got a mandated re-of a remnant or older embodi-be less antagonistic, but … the ability of the government more effective leader, arnold election, so presidents have ment of the republican party parties are made up of indi-to cooperate on vital issues, said obama must overcome over and over again acted in in the largely white, largely viduals, so it’s really difficult arnold said. his first-term weakness of fail-ways to suggest they think they older electorate.” for some authority to reframe “now that the election is ing to discuss his decisions can push boundaries.” 
despite the breadth of the what a party stands for and over, what we really need to with the american public. president’s victory, arnold said what it is,” davis said. “if the worry about is can this gov-“The presidency is an office Contact Kristen Durbin at obama’s close national margin republicans want the white ernment govern and deal with of narrative and storytelling to kdurbin@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





hurricane affects used-car market, damages vehicles 

Associated Press 
deTroiT  — in the days since superstorm sandy, an alarming prediction has flashed across the internet: hundreds of thousands of flood-damaged vehicles will inundate the nation’s used-car market, and buyers might not be told which cars have been marred. 

not true, according to in­surance-claims data reviewed by The associated press. The actual number of affected ve­hicles is far smaller, and some of those cars will be repaired and kept by their owners. The dire predictions are being spread by a company that sells vehicle title and repair histo­ries and by the largest group representing american car companies shows the number we’re talking about in the dealers. of cars reported damaged so katrina situation,” said 
They claim the number of far is a fraction of that. James appleton, president cars damaged by sandy could The companies — state of the new Jersey coalition be larger than when hurricane Farm, progressive, new Jersey of automotive retailers, katrina hit the gulf coast in manufacturers, nationwide a statewide association of 2005 and marred more than and usaa — have received more than 500 dealers. 600,000 vehicles. but an ap about 38,000 car-damage Frank scafidi, a spokes-analysis of claims data sup-claims. man for the national plied by major insurance “it’s not anything near what insurance crime bureau, 
paid adverTisemenT an insurance company group that monitors fraud and other trends, con­curred, saying insurers watched by his group are logging far fewer claims than they did with katrina. 
“it doesn’t translate to there’s going to be 2, 3, 400,000 cars out of this thing just because this is such a huge geographic storm,” scafidi said. 
other large insurers, such as Farmers, allstate, geico and liberty mutual, either did not return calls or de­clined to release claims information. 

paid adverTisemenT 



Reaction 
conTinued From page 1 
up the most with the presi­dent,” she said. “i don’t think he’s the perfect president, and i don’t think the country would have gone down the tubes if [gov. mitt] romney were elected … but knowing that someone who shares my beliefs [is the president] is really exciting to me.” 
craney said she believes equality will become a pri­ority during obama’s second term. 
“same-sex marriage is the civil rights issue of our time,” she said. “i think … regard­less of skin color, sexuality … eventually, everyone will be seen as equal sooner rather than later.” 
Junior alex coccia said obama’s reelection reflects the diverse future of the country. [ed. note: coccia is an observer viewpoint columnist.] 
“To me, this was a testa­ment to the confidence i have in how we are moving forward … becoming more accepting, [having] more di­versity,” he said. “These are things that i hold very dear, things i strive for and pro­mote and advocate for.” 
senior Jimmy walsh said the president’s reelection, though unsurprising, was a disappointment. 
“i wasn’t surprised,” he said. “i knew all the polls were indicating obama wins. i knew romney had a slim chance to none to win in the first place.” 
For walsh and the majority of the american electorate, the economy was the most important issue throughout this election. 
“i felt like obama had four years and wasn’t able to ac­complish anything for the employment rate,” he said. “i’m hoping obama and the republicans can work to­gether … and somehow re­duce the deficit, but i don’t know if, given the past four years, they can reach an agreement.” 
while walsh said he is ner­vous about the nation’s eco­nomic future during obama’s second term, coccia said he views obama’s next four years as an opportunity to continue the work of his first term. 
“i think what [the result of the election] says to me re­garding the economy is our focus has to be on people and not on profit,” he said.” my personal opinion is that president obama’s policies reflect that more, and this will be a good opportunity for us to see how we can do better with both republican and democratic policies.” 
walsh said his home state of missouri has begun to shift away from the politi­cal trends of the country as a 

“I felt like I didn’t have to watch the election results, I just had to look at my Twitter or Facebook feed.” 
Jenny Gracyalny 
senior 
whole. 
“in 2008, missouri voted for mccain, which was the first deviation away from the country, and this election, missouri voted for romney by a margin of 10 points,” he said. “The country and missouri are going two dif­ferent ways and i’m starting to wondering what’s going on.” 
saint mary’s senior Jenny gracyalny said she was in­trigued by the large role of role social media in the elec­tion compared to elections past. 
“i felt like i didn’t have to watch the election results, i just had to look at my Twitter or Facebook feed,” she said. “i think this has changed from years past.” 
gracyalny said she ob­served a high volume of political argument and dis­agreement via social media. 
“i had people tell me they stopped being friends with people [on Facebook] be­cause of what they said about the election,” she said. 
although social media provided a source of con­flict, gracyalny said she was encouraged by high voter turnout.
 “i was really pleased … to see how this election was important to a bunch of dif­ferent people,” she said. “The fact that you can vote, that your voice can still be heard … voting is a right we should and could take advantage of.” 

Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 





Facebook politicking 

Nicole Michels 
news writer 
“off the fiscal cliff we go.” 

“ohio may not win championships, but we sure do win presidential elections.” 
“if i’m going to live in a communist country i prefer to live in a tropical one.  off to cuba!” 
“it’s chill, the apocalypse is in like a month.” 
“ballots full of women.  love you, obama.” 
“luckily, in illinois, my vote is cancelled out by the vote of at least one dead person’s and possibly someone’s pet.” 
while these excerpts from my news feed are funny, far too many of the pre- and post-election statuses were insanely partisan rants about the “injustice in our country,” the “cor­rupt political system,” the “ruin the u.s. is quickly approaching” and about other subjects ranging from taxes to abortion and healthcare. 
why do so many of our peers seem to think the internet — Facebook, specifically — is an appropriate venue to reveal intimate aspects of our political beliefs?  Forget amusing ones like those at the beginning of this column, i’m talk­ing about posts where people indulge in pros­elytizing on social media.  i have to question the motives of these people, because i cannot think of even one person i know who would see a Facebook post and change his or her political views.  why, then, do so many of us do this? 
maybe the person just wants affirmation his or her viewpoint is ‘right’ by soliciting com­ments confirming the opinion he or she posts. maybe the original poster just wants to appear clever, to make sure everyone knows just how funny, smart and well-informed they actually are.  maybe the person genuinely wants to transform the mindsets of his or her Facebook community in an arguably misguided attempt to inform. 
The truth of the matter is any of these mo­tivations are misguided when the status is a partisan diatribe.  proclaiming political affili­ations on Facebook is the equivalent of stand­ing in the middle of south Quad, debartolo hall or any other public place in your real-life ‘network’ and screaming “i hate pro-choice/ pro-life people!” or “i want the government to give me money!” 
very few people would do that. when you don’t know your audience it is incredibly dif­ficult to share very personal aspects of belief without doing it offensively — or at the very least, awkwardly. 
To all you partisan Facebook ranters: do you really want to show your hand by reveal­ing your political beliefs to everyone in your community?  by delivering that information in person, you can ensure that you control who knows it and the perception that they form of you.  by passing that off into the internet world, you give that choice to anyone in your social network. 
at least we all can now take a collective breath: election season is over.  as our news feeds clear of partisan bickering, hopefully we can all use Facebook more constructively … right? 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


EDITORIAL 
Tuesday night we elected our commander in chief for the next four years. we did not elect a presi­dent for new york or california or washington or massachusetts. more than 60 million people acted on their belief that president barack obama was the better choice to tackle the major challenges we face today, both at home and abroad. but more than 57 million people disagreed. 
anyone watching any sort of screen on election night was well aware of the dissension in our coun­try. Twitter and Facebook exploded with angry comments denouncing the president, the voting population and even the electoral process as a whole. even before the election, anxious observers ex­pressed all sorts of ultimatums should their favored candidate lose — so when is the mass exodus from the country we’ve been hearing so much about? 
short of impeachment, there’s no going back from our decision as a people. americans must continue to live and work and raise families in a country led by president obama — whether they voted for him or not. a lost election is not the time to give up on america or democracy or our elected officials. it is a time to maintain dialogue, to express concerns and to hold our officials to the highest standards, all while remaining respectful and supportive of our leaders, so long as they act in good faith. we all lose as a people when we cannot demonstrate to the out­side world a decent level of national solidarity. 
both former mass. gov. mitt romney and obama ran for the highest office in our government with the belief their policies and backgrounds would best benefit the american people. while their ideolo­gies differed — sometimes drastically — there is no reason to assume they weren’t acting in accordance with their consciences. accordingly, there is no need to hold a grudge toward either candidate or either party, whether we like the outcome of the election or not. 
we should be thankful for the political debate and disagreement we have in our nation. it’s evidence of the vast number of choices we are fortunate to have. we have close races because we have competent can­didates with well-reasoned views that hit home with a substantial number of americans. more important­ly, it’s an indicator that americans are willing and able to disagree and to express their beliefs in a very public way. 
This is not the case everywhere. even today, brave individuals outside the united states risk every­thing they have in pursuit of the right to vote at all or to have their votes count in a legitimate election. demonstration of political opposition is still often met with violence in the middle east and elsewhere, where illegitimate leaders rule by fear, without con­cern for “winning” over the people’s vote. 
beyond our borders, voting results or transitions between political regimes can spark a level of con­flict requiring police or military intervention. in the united states of america, we expect the losing can­didate to offer a concession speech the very night of the results, which romney graciously did. while the results of such a hard-fought election may sting, it is important to appreciate the constructs of the great — though imperfect — system our predecessors worked tirelessly to establish. 
no one should ask or expect romney supporters to become obama supporters or republicans to become democrats. no one is asking disappointed voters to give up their principles or stop fighting for what they believe in. on the contrary, now is the time to push harder than ever, to keep politicians accountable and truly representative of the people. what we should all expect from one another, however, is that we will first and foremost be americans, unified under lead­ers we elected through a fair and legitimate system not afforded to many across the world. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“it behoves every man who values liberty of conscience for himself, to resist invasions of it in the case of others; or their case may, by change of circumstances, become his own.” 
Thomas Jefferson 

United States president 








Free bus tickets to Canada 
disgust me.” more friendly regulatory environment have staged his photo opt and amassed 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

For mitt romney supporters, president barack obama’s reelection is not unlike 1972, when my fellow notre dame seniors and i swore we would flee to canada if the great “silent majority” of pro-vietnam war devout christians and hardhat construc­tion workers voted together to reelect richard nixon. we were absolutely certain our nation could never survive another four years of nixon’s policies. we were sure thousands more of our generation would die in an unjust war. we were utterly convinced of nixon’s inherent evil when he characterized us with an anti-youth, anti-drug, anti-war and anti-choice slogan: “acid, amnesty and abortion.” 
Today — four decades after my gen­eration’s post-election “flee to canada” impulse — many have the same urge to escape northward, while some have actually gone beyond rational think­ing. last sunday, two days before the election, a virginia man worried his defense contract might end if obama were reelected. after attending church, he murdered his wife and two teen­age boys before killing himself. on Tuesday evening, former snl come­dian victoria Jackson proclaimed through Twitter she could not stop crying. she concluded, “The democrat party voted god out of their platform and adopted romans 1 … in the good vs. evil battle, today, evil won. Thanks a lot christians for not showing up. you 
mentally fragile meltdowns ignited this week in response to the anti­obama forces’ nasty campaign bra­vado. operating since the 2010 citizens united decision by the supreme court equated unlimited money expendi­tures with free speech, a number of sources attempted to paint a picture of obama as a “lazy, un-american, santa claus socialist, america-hating, welfare supporting, war on coal, food stamp muslim” president. remarkably, outside groups spent a billion dol­lars, mostly from a handful of aging caucasian men, to fuel that narra­tive. Former george w. bush politi­cal mogul karl rove led advertising spending with $100 million through his super pac crossroads gps. sands casino magnate sheldon adelson spent between $70 and $100 million while the oil tycoon koch brothers personally contributed $60 million and leveraged another $100 million to defeat president obama and elect republican u.s. senate candidates. To their surprise, they collectively failed to achieve either goal. 
These plutocrats hoped to lessen governmental regulations and pay lower taxes under romney. perhaps if they simply paid their modest tax increases under obama, they would have more money in the bank today compared to their larger out-of-pocket expenditures directed against the president. individually, their motives vary between power and political survival. rove views himself as a gop kingmaker. The koch brothers desire a to further their oil and business prof­its. adelson, on the other hand, wants a stronger commitment to israel as well as an end to government probes into his business empire. 
unless we could individually dwell within their social and uber-financial circles — the so-called “wealthiest one percent” romney personally and perfectly epitomized over the course of his campaign — we have no way of fathoming their lifestyle’s daily bubble. however, we can judge them through their public deeds and certainly gauge the size of their hearts through their charitable works. For example, mega-famous and ultra-wealthy entertainer lady gaga announced this week she will donate $1 million to the american red cross for the hurricane sandy relief effort. what checks have these angry, anti-obama old white billion­aires written to ease the devastation overwhelming their pal, new Jersey gop governor chris christie? That answer, in light of the millions they quickly and freely contributed to de­feat obama, exposes how true their hearts beat. 
For his part, romney could have better connected with the diverse suf­fering population facing homelessness and desperation due to hurricane sandy. rather than staging an ohio collection drive using $5,000 of staff-bought wal-mart goods to supply attendees with no handout, romney should have stayed within himself and bundled several large checks from his billionaire backers. he could still peanut butter jars from supporters as they filed into his rally venue. but, he should have also collected five $100,000 checks from his billionaire backers, and then personally matched them to total a $1 million donation. a good campaign staff would have turned his awkward, cheesy peanut butter collection drive into a heart­felt peanut butter and cheese soufflé extravaganza. 
on election evening, while buying gasoline during my return from driv­ing my 97-year-old aunt sophie to vote in pennsylvania, my purchase totaled $17.76 as the radio played “don’t you worry about a thing.” i took those as good omens for election day, which every american should also expect going forward. our nation continues to survive like it has after every elec­tion. if anyone deserves a bus trip to canada, it is those moneymen who just tried to buy our presidency. while not their preferred mode of transportation, a bus is all they deserve. For anyone who also wants to join them, i’m offer­ing free bus tickets to canada. 
Gary Caruso, a 1973 graduate of Notre Dame, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
darpa’s newest designer is you 
individual or group who wishes to submit designs. The space enthusiasts to contribute to a cause that interested 
Austin Lagomarsino 
The Toolbox 

darpa, the defense advanced research project agency, is the united states’ main agency for top secret, highly classified defense projects. when the military fac­es a challenge current technology cannot satisfy, darpa is tasked with creating an outside-the-box solution, and quickly. They have amassed an incredible list of projects they headed or started, including asTovl, precursor to the F-35 Joint strike Fighter, arpaneT, precursor to the internet, the mQ-1 predator drone and the X-37, the se­cret new unmanned space plane. 
For most defense companies, where a security clear­ance is often required to know anything, the thought of opening up a project to the public would be absurd. because of the threat public knowledge would create, most defense companies keep all important technical information secret, hidden in encrypted emails and protected by armed guards. For darpa, the thought of farming a project out to the public is just another clever solution. 
because darpa only employs around 140 technical employees, the agency does not have the manpower to solve all the problems it is presented with. instead, it realized there are millions of bright minds in the country who are capable of thinking of the one perfect solution everyone else missed. They have held several contests before: for a driverless car, for a social networking strat­egy and for a robotics competition, among others. This month, darpa unveiled a new challenge for 2013: Fang. 
The Fast adaptable next-generation ground vehicle contest has been announced and is open to any challenge is to design the next-generation amphibious infantry fighting vehicle for the united states military. The challenge consists of three phases, which begin in early 2013: chassis and drive train, superstructure and final design. in each design, submissions will be sub­mitted, analyzed and returned to the designers with comments, suggestions and a score. The team may then revise, edit and resubmit their design. The team with the winning design of each phase is rewarded with a million-dollar cash prize. in addition, the winning final design is forwarded on to iFab facilities, who will con­struct several production models. These will then be shipped to the united states marine corps for testing and demonstration. 
Two major implications stem from this project. The first is that with the incredible connectivity the internet affords, the industry of design may be rapidly changing. The concept of having other firms or consultants design components for a given firm’s product is fairly common, as vertical integration is not standard in most industries. however, the idea designs could come from anyone inter­ested enough to submit a design is very creative. 
one of the first predecessors of this approach is al­ready the common approach used seTi, the search for extraterrestrial intelligence. seTi takes in so much data from its array of radars, antennae and telescopes that they could never afford the amount of computing power it would take to process it all effectively. Thinking creatively, they presented astronomy enthusiasts the opportunity to donate the use of their idle computers: whenever you are not active on your personal computer, seTi uses this computing capability to process data. This allowed seTi to get the desired information and allowed them. 
another creative project was Foldit, a game challenging players to model proteins. while scientists and doctors made only modest progress combatting the chemistry of hiv/aids in the last 10 years, the contest was opened up on Foldit. with the challenge of modeling the illusive en­zyme the hiv virus uses to multiply, it took players only three weeks to find the answer. This discovery, through use of the brilliance of the masses, is theorized to lead to significant improvements in fighting hiv/aids. 
The same concept applies to Fang, but with even more advantages. with the interest of many young, creative minds, darpa gets not only a laundry list of brilliant new ideas for this project, but an impressive list of potential employees who have already demonstrated proficiency in the creative environment darpa is built around. in the future, we may see this kind of approach used to solve even larger problems. 
The second major implication is i will be forming a team to submit a Fang design. Following darpa’s strat­egy of opening the contest to the public, consider this an open casting call for anyone who wishes to get involved with the project to join the team. because the project is new, work will be defined as the project unfolds, but there is a place for everyone. if you are interested in joining the team or getting more information, please contact me at alagomar@nd.edu. 
Austin Lagomarsino is a junior aerospace engineering major. He can be reached at alagomar@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Best Bond Movies 


1. “Goldfinger” 

widely considered by many fans to be the quintessential bond film, “goldfinger” follows the formula for an epic 007 movie. megalomaniac villain? check. girl with a double-entendre? check. aston martin? check. Throw in the first appearance of Q and you’ve got one of the best bond films — ever. 

2. “On Her Majesty’s Secret Service” 
george lazenby may have only played James bond once, but boy did he make it count. critics contend if sean connery starred in this flick it would be the best by a landslide. set against the swiss alps, this action-packed thriller is about as good as it gets. plus, the film packs the biggest emotional bang at the end of any bond movie — but we won’t spoil it for you. 

3. “Thunderball” 

The fourth bond entry into the series is the first when James bond isn’t just a british spy but a larger-than-life action star; and this film set the tone for the rest of the series. no longer was bond just combating cold war communist baddies, but the evil organization specTre. Throw in the underwater climax, and you’ve got a winner. 

4. “Casino Royale” 

daniel craig’s first foray into the world of 007 is one of the series’ best. a franchise reboot, the film does not feature mainstays Q or moneypenny, but nonetheless craig brings a fresh, thrill­ing take on the character. plus, Judi dench as m and eva green as vesper lynd give inspired performances. 
5. “The Spy Who Loved Me” 

easily the best of roger moore’s seven tries as James bond, “The spy who loved me” features one of the best bond girls ever, anya amasova, and a climax on a submersible villainous lair. plus, bond’s ski jump, complete with a union Jack parachute, is one of the signature moments of the series. 

Bond Rankings 
1. Sean Connery 

his accent. what more is there to say? sean connery will always be the one and only original James bond. 
2. Pierce Brosnan 

as James bond from 1995 to 2002, brosnan brought the most suave english sophistication to the screen. another bond with a great accent, brosnan embodies 007 flawlessly. 
3. Daniel Craig 

craig ranks as the third best bond, positioning himself as a beautiful compromise be­tween connery and brosnan. craig is equal parts tough and smooth. craig, at the center of the present bond era, hasn’t disappointed so far. 

4. Roger Moore 

Though moore had one more appearance than connery as bond, their representations of the agent differ. while connery brings a gruff sort of secret agent style to the screen, moore’s handsome yet funny portrayal makes him a top contender for the best bond. 

5. Timothy Dalton 

Timothy dalton takes the prize for most intense and driven bond. he brought a certain seriousness to the role when he took on villains in “The living daylights” and “license to kill.” 

6. George Lazenby 

as bond for only one film, lazenby is at a numerical disadvantage for judging. as the ringo starr of James bond, there is little to say about his performance, though “on her majesty’s secret service” is one of the best of the series. 


lowing the smash suc­
assistant managing editor 

cess of “skyfall,” daniel craig and everyone else 
Kevin Noonan 

involved with the new-
scene editor 

est James bonds mov­ie, from director sam mendes to the guy who gets sandwiches for the break room, shocks the world and quits. billionaire warren buffet sees an investment opportunity, and opens his checkbook to scene editor kevin noonan and assistant managing editor sam stryker. 
“make the greatest bond movie imaginable; spare no ex­pense,” buffet tells the enormously talented, wildly good-looking and rather humble pair. 
all right, so most of that isn’t true. but what if it was? what if sam and kevin could build an entire bond film from the ground, picking everything from the car to the villain to mr. bond himself? 
well, it would be a great scene story, that’s what. 
Kevin: i think the first place to start is to figure out ex­actly what we need. what are the core pieces that make up a bond film puzzle? off the top of my head, i’d say it’s the bond actor, the villain, bond’s car and the gadgets. and probably the director, too. did i miss any? 
Sam: kevin, you missed a key ingredient — the bond girl. a James bond movie without a leading lady is like choco­late chip cookies without chocolate chips. it just isn’t right. now, i may not know a lot about ladies, but i do know this — behind every great man is a woman. in James bond’s case, sometimes she wants to kill him and take over the world. regardless, she’s an important ingredient. one other key ingredient is who sings the theme song. in recent years, we have had madonna, alicia keys and adele lend their vocals to 007. you need someone with a solid set of pipes to sing a bond theme song. 
otherwise, i think you have a pretty good grasp on what makes a bond movie tick. 
Kevin: so now that we’ve decided what we’re deciding on, let’s get to it. 
1. Who’s going to wear the tux? 
Sam: i’ll be the first to say i am very disappointed daniel craig quit his role as James bond. as a fellow blond, it was nice to see someone who looked (somewhat) like me in the role, fulfilling my fantasies of one day being an interna­tional man of mystery. he even looked good in a speedo, to boot. alas, now that he is gone, we need to find a new man for the job. James bond needs to be handsome, suave and witty (like yours truly). but most important, he needs to be an embodiment of all things british. That is why i choose christian bale to be my new James bond. 
when he is not too busy cursing out production assis­tants or saving gotham city, christian bale is a handsome, proven oscar-winning actor. and a little-known fact is that he is actually english. now that he is done suiting up as batman and hanging around in the bat cave, he has more than enough free time to don a tuxedo and save the world. i know an aston martin is a step down from the batmobile, but somehow i think he would agree. 
Kevin: while i won’t say that i don’t like christian bale for the bond role for fear of sam going patrick bateman on me, i’m going to go in a different direction. an actor from the 
u.k. has traditionally played the role, but i’m going to pluck from one of the empire’s former colonies — guy pearce. The aussie actor has dipped in and out of the spotlight af­ter a promising start to his career (“l.a. confidential” and “memento” followed by a decade of junk), but regardless, it appears no role is outside of his range. 
daniel craig brought a stony handsomeness to the role and it’s been wildly successful for him, because — let’s call a spade a spade —  he’s a stonily handsome man. with pearce though, bond returns more to the sean connery a wisecrack on the tip of his to different angle to the role, and 


2. The Villain 

Kevin: a wide range of char tle as bond’s rival —  christo destroy silicon valley in “a vi be menacing, of course, but b have a little character to them villains, they’re always a litt a bond villain has to scare yo degree. 
my instinct is to go with J pretty sure he’s the square roo but it feels a little obvious. 
instead, i’m going to go out o brody. brody is a spectacula play good guy roles. i think h lain like nobody else and surp ly creepy character. plus, with h be from just about any place i 
Sam: some of the most m been women. evil does not ha choosing angelina Jolie — w playing a bond baddie in the p my James bond movie. she’s g world and she has a slight edge t having worn a vial of blood ar married to billy bob Thornton 
most importantly, she is o planet who is not only a tale one who can match the actio she’s been a tomb raider, mrs. shoot-em-up roles. Jolie is the p 

3. Bond Girl 

Sam: a bond girl has to be b but she also has to match wits w ing men in the world. she nee and hopefully a bit spunky. by n eye candy. she needs to have a c like eva green did as vesper l 
That’s why i choose charl she’s got acting chops and a s ing won an oscar for portra in “monster’s ball.” she also of action movies. This south blonde, and she is more than c plus, she gets mad props for st if she can handle a gigantic g James bond should be a piece o 
Kevin: i’m picking two. dea 
For my first bond girl, eve mold of the usual bond fare, i actress —  Freida pinto. she’s p millionaire,” and played a co gotten, but still pretty good “ apes.” she’s tough, she’s gorg tences and given a few weeks ably kick some butt. i’m goin “the one who seems question be the good one.” 
The second bond girl, who w who falls for bond’s charms a l able and turns out to be bad a end,” is emmanuelle chriqui chriqui as sloan, e’s off and on be forever known as the tex ing your coverage.” chriqus is a enough deviousness in her to d least. 
4. The Song Kevin: like sam said, a l 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

s, but also always the hint of ongue. i think pearce brings a d i like it. 
acters has taken up the man­pher walken once plotted to ew to a kill.” The villain must bond villains always seem to 
m. They’re never just ordinary le unique, if not a bit gaudy. ou, but also intrigue you to a 
ohn malkovich, because i’m ot of every movie villain ever, 
ut on a limb and go with adrien r actor, but always seems to e could delve into a bond vil­rise people with a legitimate-h his facial hair skills, he could n the world. 
emorable bond villains have ave a gender. That’s why i am ho has expressed interest in e past — to play the villain in s got looks, she has traveled the e to her. she certainly is scary, ound her neckewhen she was n. s one of the few ladies on the nted actress, but also some-on star power of James bond. 
smith and a handful of other e perfect bond femme fatale. 
e beautiful, that is to be sure, s with one of the most interest-eds to be smart, independent y no means should she just be e a certain sense of allure to her, ynd in “casino royale.” ize Theron as my bond girl. d a serious mean streak, hav­ying a serial-killer prostitute 
has starred in her fair share 
african stunner is no dumb n capable of defending herself. arring in “mighty Joe young.” c gorilla and bill paxton, then e of cake. 
al with it. 
n though it might break the i’m going to go with a proven s proven her merit in “slumdog re role in the likely to be for-The rise of the planet of the eous, she can complete sen­s of training, she could prob­ng to cast pinto in the role of nable at first but turns out to 
o
 will play the role of “the one s a little too quickly to be believ­d and probably dies before the . “entourage” fans will know n love interest, in what should tbook definition of “outkick­s absurdly stunning, with just 

o
 deceive bond, for a while at 


a long line of accomplished singers have belted out the bond theme song, including paul mccartney, gladys knight, Tina Turner, madonna, alicia keys and adele. Those are some big, soulful shoes to fill. when it comes to soul, power and musical genius, there’s no better in the music world right now than John legend. a musical prodigy, there seems to be no limit to legend’s infinite abilities, and there’s no doubt that he could belt out a memorable tune. plus, with his collabora­tion connections, there could be some pretty sweet possi­bilities for “featuring” credits. 
Sam: bond themes have been their best when sung by a british singer with power vocals — that’s why adele was chosen to sing “skyfall” and absolutely nailed it. she may not quite have the star power of her english compatriot, but Florence welch has a powerful set of pipes. her voice is soulful and introspective and would serve the new bond series well. she fits in the classic mould of bond singers — think shirley bassey and carly simon — while also appeal­ing to a modern audience. my backup choice is sia. either way, you can’t go wrong. 

5. The Car 

Sam: choosing James bond’s car is obvious. it has to be an aston martin. yes, he has driven other cars, including a bmw and — gasp! — a Ford, in addition to a lotus that con­verted into a submarine. but bond will always be synony­mous with aston martin. seeing him drive something else is like seeing him order something besides a vodka martini, shaken, not stirred. i sure don’t want to see bond sipping a cosmo. so buckle up, bond — you’re still riding an aston martin if i have a say. 
Kevin: The aston martin is indeed the typical bond choice, but little known fact; aston martin is a wholly-owned subsidiary of — gasp! — Ford. my movie is going to be a little progressive; i’m going after the hippie, en­vironmentalist, “save the whales” crowd and that stuff. Therefore, my James bond will be driving a model from the coolest electric motor company on the market — Tesla. The Tesla roadster reportedly gets 120 miles to the gallon, in addition to look absolutely filthy awesome. 

6. The Gadget 
Sam: i’m going to be honest; the gadget question per­plexed me at first. sometimes, when bond’s gadgets get too high-tech, the movie loses credibility. remember the laser guns in “moonraker” meant to mimic “star wars” or the invisible car in “die another day”? absolutely ridiculous. i prefer my bond gadgets futuristic but within the realm of realism. That’s why bond absolutely must have a jetpack in his next film. because when the aston martin can’t get you to the top of a building, Q better have a good backup plan for you. 
Kevin: i was an engineering major for three days once upon a time. i’m anti-qualified to invent a gadget for a bond movie. but, if i must, i think there might be a good joke somewhere if bond had bulletproof pants. simple-minded maybe, but they have bulletproof vests; who wants to get shot in the pants? 

Sparknotes 

Sam: christian bale as bond, angelina Jolie as The villain, charlize Theron as The bond girl, Florence welch for The Theme song, aston martin for The car, Jetpack for The gadget. 
Kevin: guy pearce as bond, adrien brody as The villain, Freida pinto and emmanuelle chriqui as The bond girl(s), John legend for The Theme song, Tesla for The car, bulletproof pants for The gadget. 
To paraphrase the late great buffalo bill, would you see those movies? i’d see those movies. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu and Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 



The leader of the criminal organization specTre, and the exact basis for dr. evil’s char­acter in “austin powers,” blofeld appears in six different bond films, constantly at war with bond and the british secret service. 
2. Goldfinger 

a classic bad guy obsessed with gold and wealth, goldfinger plots to devalue the entirety of america’s gold stock in Fort knox with some pretty fancy radiation technology. a very economically devious plan. 
3. Jaws 

a monstrous figure with unlimited strength, Jaws actually appeared in two different bond films, “The spy who loved me” and “moonraker.” he survives a building collapsing on him, being thrown from a train, being hit by a car and even a fight with a shark. not bad. 
4. Oddjob 

a Japanese henchman in “goldfinger,” oddjob was famous for his nasty hat-throwing skills. 
5. Scaramanga 

bond’s nemesis in the 1974 film “The man with the golden gun,” scaramanga is a three-nippled assassin who wields the infamous golden gun. christopher lee, who found vil­lainy again later in life as saruman in “The lord of the rings” trilogy, played the villain. 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Howard is not the bad guy 

Andrew Gastelum 
associate sports editor 
To laker haters everywhere, dwight howard isn’t a problem. 
To laker fans everywhere, dwight howard isn’t a solution, either. 
dwight is a push in the right direction for the lakers, who desperately needed to get rid of the laziness of andrew bynum and his two bad knees. with that move for dwight, the lakers got a refund on one of the most logic-shattering players in the nba (Javale mcgee wins that title three times over, unanimously) for one of the most hard-working. 
dwight is a true throwback to the big man of the olden days. defense first, rebounding sec­ond and everything will follow. but to expect dwight to put a fat championship ring on kobe’s finger — if he even has room — is incredibly naïve. although, it almost seems as though mitch kupchak made the trade for the Thunder to send James harden to houston so the lakers could have a shot of coming out of the west. 
as we saw with the 2010-2011 heat and even the 2003-2004 lakers, it takes a little bit more than a roster move to win a championship. it takes time. Time to mesh, time to study, time to win. a 1-4 lakers team is evi­dent of that. but there is another issue that should concern nba fans everywhere — maybe not those of the “other” tenants in staples center, though. 
dwight howard is dwight howard, but not the same dwight howard we all fell in love with just because of a trade request. 
he has been to the all-star game six times, earned three defensive player of the year titles, was a no. 1 pick and somehow made his way to the Finals in 2009. oh, and he’s 26 years old and considered one of the best big men in basketball, if not the best. 
but he has also seen his pub­lic image suffer from switching back and forth between his fa­vorite trade destinations every other week while still in a magic uniform. 
some of the criticism came across as warranted, but the majority of it is arrogant backlash against one of the nba’s move lovable, fun-loving figures. 
in 2009, howard almost single­handedly took the magic to the nba Finals, becoming just the fifth player in nba history to record 20 double-doubles in a single postseason. That magic team defeated the reigning nba champions in the boston celtics and the Three amigos before be­ing tossed around by the purple and gold that dwight would eventually wear. 
if you’re a superstar-caliber player like dwight, imagine hav­ing to wade through a small-mar­ket franchise with a post-slam dunk contest Jason richardson, a post-“gun in the locker room” gilbert arenas and a post-duke 
J.J. redick, while lebron James gets to choose which super-team he would like to join on national television and carmelo anthony maneuvers his way out of the mile-high and to the big apple. 
That comes just two years after the magic get to the nba Finals and vow to work to give dwight some firepower to make a run at his first nba title. Following that Finals appearance, the magic immediately let hedo Turkoglu — who had a ridiculous postseason — flee to portland (then not like the weather, back out and go to Toronto). and then they moved key role players in courtney lee and rafer alston to new Jersey. 
but don’t worry dwight, because we added a past-his­prime vince carter and Quentin richardson, who is doing a stel­lar job of collecting a jersey from every team in the nba before causing some controversy. 
From there, the magic got progressively less magical. and dwight wanted out. 
he didn’t necessarily do it the right way by constantly switching his allegiances and distracting from his team’s focus. maybe the frustration just boiled over from being told the same thing by orlando management. dwight realized he was in the prime of his career and going nowhere fast, yet he probably would change how he handled the situation. 
but the outrage is, well, outra­geous. why? because if he went anywhere but to the lakers, no one outside of stephen a. smith would call him out. 
Think about it. if he goes to dallas, brooklyn, new york or even somehow to miami, the outrage isn’t quite the same as it is with the lake show. 
so in forcing his way out of orlando as melo did with denver the year before, a lovable figure suddenly turns into an outcast? That doesn’t quite connect, sort of like blake griffin doing anything good but dunking and playing funk in his kia. 
The more interesting question is whether or not he is treated like lebron, where winning a title can erase it all. 
either way, david stern can’t turn this trade around. or maybe i spoke too soon. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish take on busy weekend 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 

The irish begin their jam-packed weekend today as they compete in the Tribe invitational, hosted by william and mary in williamsburg, va. 
notre dame will play three schools from the east coast over the course of the weekend to fin­ish off its fall season. 
“we are going to be able to play against teams from harvard, who was a top-25 team from last year, old dominion, who has a whole lot of international players, and william and mary,” irish coach bobby bayliss said. 
The action kicks off this morn­ing against harvard when the top-six singles players from each team square off. The irish doubles teams will then face two of the three schools on Friday afternoon, followed by the lower-tier singles matches against harvard on Friday night. 
saturday and sunday will fol­low a similar schedule, but notre dame will compete against william and mary and old dominion. 
The weekend represents a chance to evaluate where the team stands, especially because the irish will have all players available for the event, bayliss said. 

“i think it’s going to give us an op­portunity to see where each of our guys is,” bayliss said. “[senior] blas moros had to miss the [midwest regional championships] be­cause of mononucleosis and he’s back in the saddle. it’s good to have him with us. [Junior] matt dooley is going with us and he missed both events due to inju­ries this fall, so this will be his first event. it’s going to be fun to see how everybody does.” 
The opponents this weekend are not strangers to the irish, as the team has faced off against william and mary and harvard in previous years. additionally, the irish will return to williamsburg this spring to challenge the Tribe, while the team will also play harvard in norman, okla., in January. 
The Tribe invitational this weekend marks the end of notre dame’s fall season that began in dublin in august. The fall in­cluded four other events, high­lighted by a dominating home performance in the Tom Fallon invitational. after the completion of this weekend’s event, the irish will take a two-month break from competition before the spring sea­son begins. 
The Tribe invitational begins at 9 a.m. today when notre dame faces harvard. The event will run through sunday in williamsburg, va. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

notre dame seeks title 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 

The irish are set to take the court two final times during big east regular season play this weekend. They will welcome cincinnati to purcell pavilion on Friday eve­ning and travel to marquette on sunday. 
as notre dame (19-6, 12-1 big east) approaches the close of big east play, junior captain and out­side hitter andrea mchugh said the team has performed well under pressure and is looking to continue its 10-match win streak. with victories over the bearcats (11-16, 9-4) and the golden eagles (23-4, 12-1), the irish will clinch the big east regular season title. a win this weekend will also give the irish their 19th 20-win season, and their first since 2009. 
“i am so proud of how the team has performed so far this year,” mchugh said. “we have been put in some pretty difficult situations during games, but because of our 

WANTED 

PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-appt earnparttime.com 
composure we have been able to come out victorious. one of our goals was to win the big east regu­lar season and with two wins this weekend, we can clinch that title.” 
marquette also has the oppor­tunity to clinch the title with two wins this weekend. mchugh said notre dame is concentrating on cincinnati first. 
“it’s really important for us to focus on one team at a time and not get too ahead of ourselves,” she said. 
The irish have put in their time preparing for each team this weekend, primarily focusing on defensive play to counter each team’s strong offense. 
“cincinnati and marquette both have very strong offenses and run the loop a lot,” mchugh said. “during practices, we have been putting a lot of emphasis on defense, especially against certain plays that both teams will run. in addition, we’ve been tuning up individual skills, like serve-receive passing, serving and hitting.” 
The team has been performing well defensively lately, with some individuals receiving recognition for their play last week. Freshman libero Taylor morey earned big east Freshman of the week, while junior setter maggie brindock was put on the weekly honor roll. morey averaged 5.50 digs and 1.88 assists per set in notre dame’s matches against rutgers and seton hall, while brindock aver­aged 2.0 kills, 11.13 assists and 2.75 digs per set over the weekend. she also had a triple-double in notre dame’s win over rutgers. 
“as a team, we have been doing really well with our blocking and attacking,” mchugh said. “we are continuing to work on our defense and becoming more aggressive with our serving.” 
The irish are set to square off against the bearcats tonight at 7 
p.m. and the golden eagles on sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
you. If you or someone you love needs 
PERSONAL 

confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has information, visit ND’s website at: many resources in place to assist http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 


Baraka 
conTinued From page 14 
in her one-two combinations. pena kept couri off balance by mixing in body shots. couri tried to defend her lower body, which left her face open for peña’s dev­astating right punches. 
Gina “I’m Not Sorry” Rogari def. Elizabeth “Marvin Gardens” Garvin 
The junior rogari and her slick footwork defeated junior garvin in a split decision. rogari danced around the ring to elude garvin’s right jabs. garvin responded late in the first round with several well-timed body shots. rogari, however, took control in the third round. rogari used her jabs to set up sequences of one-two com­binations and took advantage of garvin’s lowered gloves to secure her victory. 
Kat “Outta Yo Reach” Leach def. Catherine “Dizzy” Gillespie 
in a battle of seniors, leach de­feated gillespie in a unanimous decision. leach was solid defen­sively and would throw jabs at op­portune moments. she executed each combination with powerful precision and mixed in body shots to prevent gillespie from gaining any offensive momentum. both boxers were aggressive, stringing together powerful combinations of punches. gillespie tried to re­spond to leach’s advances, but leach’s punches were more ac­curate, and sealed her the victory. 
Emily “Goldilocks” Smith def. Allison “Knockdown” McKown 
Freshman emily smith claimed victory over the sopho­more mckown in a split decision. mckown displayed a strong jab in the first and third rounds. smith stopped mckown’s charges, how­ever, with excellent parries and blocks. smith capitalized each time mckown was caught in the transition between offense and defense. smith’s defense pre­vented mckown from landing the punches she would have needed to win in the close split decision. 
Grace “Speedy” Pettey def. Elise “Golden” Eiden 
The freshman pettey won a battle of footwork over the ju­nior eiden in a unanimous de­cision. pettey and eiden fought strategically against each other rather than resorting to haymakers. eiden effectively blocked pettey’s blows until the third round, when pettey be­gan throwing body shots, which forced eiden to lower her gloves. pettey took advantage of this and landed key hits in the third round on her way to victory. 
Sarah “Metal” McCarthy def. Colleen “Old” MacDonald 
The junior mccarthy domi­nated the fight from her first punches and defeated the senior macdonald in a unanimous de­cision. mccarthy opened the fight with a quick flurry of strikes. macdonald failed to land punch­es in response, as mccarthy danced away from her. in the second round, mccarthy pushed macdonald around the ring and prevented her from gaining any momentum. macdonald came back strong in the final round with several solid one-two com­binations, but it was not enough to overcome mccarthy. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
Ana “Anarchy” Hernandez def. Madeline “Bring It” Hahn 
Quick on her feet and with her punches, the senior hernandez pounced to an early advantage over her freshman opponent and did not give it up as she won unanimously. in the first round, hahn took to the defensive and primarily blocked hernandez’s jabs, while avoiding getting trapped in the corner. however, the freshman came out strong in the second round, matching the 
paid adverTisemenT 


senior punch for punch. once again, hahn opened the third round with a flurry of punches, but this resurgence was not enough to overcome the strong headshots from hernandez. The senior entrapped her opponent against the side of the ring to close the third round and seal the decision. 
Anna “The Maine-iac” Carmack def. Susanna “Grace” Spaulding 
The night’s final fight did not dis­appoint, with the junior carmack taking the split decision over the senior spaulding. both box­ers opted for a controlled, more decisive pace, choosing to con­centrate on technique instead of speed. carmack took the of­fensive in the first round, but spaulding blocked most of her punches. in the second round, carmack once again came out on the attack and doled out a steady stream of punches. This time, she made contact and gave her opponent a bloody nose, in­terrupting the fight’s progress. despite her injury, spaulding still matched carmack’s inten­sity punch for punch to end the second. entering the final round, the fight was even, but carmack maintained her offensive de­meanor and took home the split decision. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



Title 
conTinued From page 17 
The third round kicked off with a quick exchange of headshots between the two seniors. while kunycky attacked with body shots, buchanan continued to utilize headshots and swift move­ments to lead her to victory. 
Julia “Can’t Be Controlled” Berchtold def. Tamara “TKO Win” Nguyen 
The senior berchtold set the tone of the fight early, attacking with a combination of body and headshots. This strategy helped berchtold win the fight by unani­mous decision. 
in the second round, nguyen stepped up her intensity, open­ing with a left hook. but berchtold responded with a series of headshots. 
The third round was an even battle with both opponents fight­ing aggressively. berchtold used several shots to the head and mixed in a few strategic hooks to secure the victory. 
Rose “The Riveter” Raderstorf def. MJ “Thing 1” Durkin 
in a quick-paced and aggres­sive fight, the senior raderstorf won the contest by split decision. 
The first round was marked by an exchange of a series of head-shots. raderstorf and the senior durkin both moved skillfully around the ring. 
in the second round, durkin used solid left and right hooks to throw raderstorf off guard. raderstorf bounced back though, and attacked with strong jabs to durkin’s head. 
raderstorf’s combination of hooks and body shots in the third round helped her to rise above durkin and win by split decision. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
sports writer 
Carmen Lopez def. Ann “No Need to Duck” Castner 
The senior lopez started off strong against the smaller se­nior castner. The second round found both fighters advancing cautiously, conserving energy for a decidedly more energetic third round. castner was frequently able to duck under lopez’s quick jabs, forcing lopez to aim lower. Through the third round, the women traded punches fairly evenly. castner attacked with a strong finish, but it was not enough to secure the win. lopez walked away with the unani­mous decision. 
Stani “The Bulgarian Beast” Sevova def. Julie “Thing 2” Saxer 
in a quick battle of rapid blows, the off-campus senior sevova tri­umphed over fellow off-campus senior saxer. saxer instigated the fight with a fierce attack, but sevova held her own throughout the rest of the match. both fighters approached each other carefully in the first round, but sevova had the edge with several direct hits to saxer’s head. in the second round, sevova gained a quick edge with rapid shots to saxer’s head. saxer rallied several times and finished the round with a strong punch. sevova forced saxer to remain on defense through the third round and ended with the unanimous decision in her favor. 
“Muhammed” Molly Allare def. Meghan “You’re Gonna Be Bawlin” Zwahlen 
despite Zwahlen’s height ad­vantage, the sophomore allare defeated fellow sophomore Zwahlen in a unanimous deci­sion. neither boxer seemed to gain definitive control through­out the match. The referee was forced to call time during the first round to ensure Zwahlen’s headgear fit properly. allare came up strong after the break and launched an emphatic attack on her opponent. The fighters traded shots at the head for much of the third round, but allare overcame the height discrepancy to secure the victory. 
Shannon “The Glommer” Bugos def. Danielle “La Guerrera” Duarte 
despite a remarkably fast start by duarte, pangborn freshman bugos earned a unanimous decision with several decisive attacks. pasquerilla west sopho­more duarte threw several rapid punches at her taller competitor. at first it seemed that her tenac­ity would force bugos to play defense, but bugos responded with several strong hits. duarte’s quick attacks lost some of their fury and bugos’ punches be­came more emphatic as she pushed duarte back. Though duarte tried to push bugos away, her force was no match for bugos’ power as bugos took home the win. 
Courtney Currier def. Michelle “Michelle Michelle” Young 
Farley senior currier found ways to avoid fierce attacks and win a unanimous decision over the senior young. both boxers showed off skilled footwork as their lunges and pivots forced each competitor to move around the ring and in and out of corners. young started the match with a strong attack, but currier contin­ued to evade her punches. currier managed to land several shots in the second round, during which both fighters advanced tenta­tively. in the third round, currier increased her attack and her dominant display of power was enough to secure the win. 
Dionne “Striker” Sandoval def. Jennifer “Fitz of Fury” Fitzpatrick 
in a split decision, the badin sophomore sandoval defeated the senior Fitzpatrick. sandoval aimed her initial shots low, cor­nering Fitzpatrick multiple times. The taller Fitzpatrick had a strength advantage, but sandoval was rapid and relentless in her at­tacks. in the second round, both boxers varied their aim and their shots, forcing each other to adapt more quickly. by the third round, exhaustion had begun to affect the fighters as the pace of the bout slowed. The women advanced cautiously and exchanged blows and in the end, sandoval won the narrow victory. 
Kasia “Polish Punisher” Prouty def. Erin “Fired Up” Flattery 
The mba student prouty de­feated senior Flattery in a split decision that sparked cheers on both sides in the crowd. prouty leveraged her height and strength advantage to push Flattery around the ring. Flattery re­sponded with short, quick jabs that temporarily deterred prouty. but by breaking up Flattery’s at­tack with a few strong punches, prouty managed to retain control of the first and second rounds. Flattery took a stronger approach in the final round and landed a few solid shots against prouty. her comeback was not quite enough though, as prouty edged out the split decision. 
Dagny “To Honor” Nagengast def. Alison “Call Your Mom” Collins 
with a fast and dominant start, the senior nagengast quickly overcame fellow senior collins in a decision decided by referee stoppage. nagengast instantly forced collins into a corner with several powerful punches. Time was called once in round one to allow collins to adjust her head­gear. The bout was stopped again after collins’s headgear fell off. in round two, both boxers had strong attacks, but nagengast maintained a clear competi­tive edge. after the referee again called time for collins, victory was awarded to nagengast. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
Diana “May the Force Be With” Yu def. Sunee “Shiner” Fleshman 
The fifth-year student yu defeated the senior Fleshman in a unanimous decision with strong one-two combinations and strategic body shots. yu started the fight aggressively with a one-two-body shot sequence. she pushed Fleshman around the ring, and Fleshman was forced to fight defensively. Fleshman tried to rally in the third round, as she stood her ground and threw her own punches more aggressively. however, yu’s domination in the first two rounds led her to victory. 
Tori “No” White “Flag” def. Lauren “The Big Labowski” Ladowski 
sophomore white, using straight right jabs, fended off junior ladowski’s combinations for a unanimous victory. white parried and blocked an extended series of strong, straight punches from ladowski in the first round. 



white opened the second round with a flurry combination of one-two punches followed by a powerful right hook. she pushed ladowski to the ropes in the third round, but ladowski fought back. ladowski took advantage each time white lowered her gloves and landed several solid hits with her right, but white landed more punches throughout the bout to secure the win. 
Alisa “Baaadd” Blumenthaler def. Michelle “Action” Purvis 
The senior blumenthaler defeated the mba student purvis in a unanimous deci­sion. blumenthaler knocked purvis down early in the first round to set the tone for the fight. purvis, however, refused to back down. she fought well in the second round and gained on blumenhaler’s early lead. purvis backed blumenthaler onto the ropes and forced her into defen­sive mode. in the third round, though, blumenthaler’s powerful jab overtook purvis and she re­gained control of the fight. 
Amanda “Bringing the” Pea def. Cristina “TripleX” Couri 
The sophomore peña and her quick body shots defeated the se­nior couri in a split decision. both boxers came out swinging in the first round of the fight. couri showed off a strong straight right 
see baraka PAGE 13 paid adverTisemenT 





MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish face Connecticut in conference semifinal 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
after a first-round loss in the big east tournament a season ago, the no. 5 irish are back in the big east semifinals for the fifth time in six years with a game Friday night against no. 8 connecticut. 
notre dame (14-3-1, 5-2-1 big east) will take on the huskies (15-2-1, 6-2-0) in ppl park in chester, pa., after beating connecticut 2-1 on sept. 29. The irish fell behind 2-0 in the first half to the host huskies in that contest before senior captain and midfielder dillon powers scored notre dame’s lone goal in the second half. 
irish coach bobby clark said a slow start cost the irish in the first match. 
“They know us [and] we know them a little bit better than we did,” clark said. “i think if you look at the last game, i thought we certainly started fairly slow­ly. That’s kind of the way it’s been this year. 
“we fell behind, but we had a very, very strong second half. so it’d be nice the way we played the second half, if we could play two halves like that, i think we would be in good shape.” 
The game will consist of a battle of strengths, as the irish are fourth in the nation in goals scored with 44 while connecticut is fourth in the country in goals allowed, sur­rendering only nine this season. 
The winner of the match-up between notre dame and connecticut will play the win­ner of Friday’s other semifinal between georgetown (16-2-1, 6-2-0) and marquette (16-2-1, 5-2-1) in the big east champi­onship game sunday at noon at ppl park. 
The semifinal and final matches were originally sched­uled for red bull arena in harrison, n.J., but were relo­cated to ppl park, home of the philadelphia union of the mls, due to the effects of hurricane sandy. 
clark said playing in a large stadium like ppl park, which has a capacity of 18,500, will not hinder the irish. 
“we played at columbus crew stadium in the spring. The boys really enjoyed that,” he said. “and of course two years ago we played in red bull arena, so that was fun. i think [the team] will respond very positively, actually. They’ll be excited just to play in a stadium. i think that’s always something that you look forward to, and i think that this team will re­spond very favorably to playing at ppl park.” 
clark said the game against connecticut is important for several reasons. in addition to trying to bring home a con­ference championship for the first time since 2003, the irish, who are no. 1 in the nation in the rpi ranking, are hoping to secure a top-four seed in the ncaa Tournament, which would guarantee home field ad­vantage until the college cup in hoover, ala. The irish are 8-0-0 in alumni stadium this season. 
“obviously, we want to beat connecticut because we’d like to get into the finals of the big east,” he said. “but then the other thing is, we’d also like to do it so we keep a high rpi and we earn a top-four seed in the ncaa Tournament, because if we could get a top-four seed, provided we kept winning, that would make it that we would play all our games at alumni stadium and that’s big for so many things. 
“if you can get into that 
paid adverTisemenT 


situation of playing at home, it’s great for our kids from an academic standpoint. it means we’re not traveling, we’re not on the road, we’re not miss­ing classes. so that would be great. and it’s also a treat for the home fans to let them see the big games at the end of the sea­son. i think that would be big. and then the final thing if you play at home is the comfort of just being in your own stadium. it’s been quite good to us this season.” 
The irish take on the huskies in the big east semifinals Friday at 7:30 p.m. at ppl park in chester, pa. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

McGlinn and Pangborn battle in semifinals 
Pasquerilla West and Walsh face off on other side of bracket in regular-season rematch 
to right the ship and improve Pasquerilla West vs. Walsh 
By RICH HIDY 

sports writer from their only loss of the year 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
this time out. 
sports writer 

no. 2 mcglinn will take on “we’re definitely looking for no. 6 pangborn on sunday in a a little redemption,” golden with the first round of the play­regular-season rematch with a said. “at the end of the day, offs behind them, familiar foes trip to the finals on the line. this is going to be a really great no. 1 pasquerilla west and no. 4 
mcglinn senior cap-game between two teams who walsh are set to square off in the tain emily golden said the will settle for nothing less than semifinals sunday. shamrocks (5-1) will be espe-playing in the stadium.” both teams are coming off tight cially focused as the favorites. To arrive at the semifinals, victories in sunday’s quarterfi­
“i’m expecting our team to pangborn (4-2) upset no. 3 nals. pasquerilla west (7-0) went come out fighting for our lives cavanaugh 18-12 on sunday. to overtime against ryan before on sunday,” golden said. “even senior captain colleen bailey escaping with a 19-12 win behind though we’re a higher seed, said the phoxes will need to put sophomore quarterback lauren we’re preparing for this game forth a strong effort to keep its vidal’s touchdown run. walsh (5­as if we’re the underdogs be-unexpected playoff run alive. 2), meanwhile, managed to secure cause pangborn was our only “we are looking for everyone a close 12-7 victory over welsh loss in the regular season. to give 110 percent and leave it Family. They’re a very solid team, but all on the field,” bailey said. walsh senior captain and safe-sophomore center colleen doyle game plan, and our defense we wholeheartedly believe we bailey said pangborn’s game ty lauren dunn said the wild may take snaps at quarterback. works to stop the other team’s ball are capable of beating them.” plan is to get off to a fast start. women are prepared to take on pasquerilla west and walsh movement.” 
golden said mcglinn made a “we can’t let the little mis-the purple weasels. have met twice already this sea-schmitt said the purple weasels number of mistakes in its 13-0 takes affect us,” bailey said. “we really know our strengths son, once in a scrimmage and a will look for strong performances loss to pangborn (4-2) on sept. “we need to come out with and weaknesses,” dunn said. “we second time sept. 25. in the regu-from junior offensive lineman 23, lapses which caused the our best foot forward from the are going to continue sticking to lar season matchup, the purple elaine rousseau and freshman shamrocks to fall behind in the get-go.” our game plan.” weasels defeated the wild women defensive end katie Ferrara. game. bailey also said the phoxes in the other camp, pasquerilla 18-12. schmitt also said team chemis­
“last time we played will use their team chemistry west senior captain and defensive “we have an advantage to try has been important so far this pangborn our offense shot to propel them to a win. lineman meghan schmitt said the already playing each other,” season. us in the foot, and i take full “we want to maximize our purple weasels are employing a dunn said. “we look to exploit “we all get along really well, and responsibility for that as the ability to have each other’s new strategy. their weaknesses and limit their wanting to be out on the field and [quarterback],” golden said. “i backs and to support one an-“in practice, we’ve been seeing strengths.” keep practicing has led to great threw three interceptions and other as a team,” bailey said. a lot of new things about our play-dunn said walsh will rely on success,” schmitt said. made some really dumb plays pangborn and mcglinn face ers,” schmitt said. “we are looking both strong offense and defense to The purple weasels and wild that prevented us from scoring off at labar Fields at 5 p.m. on to switch up some of our players’ exact revenge on pasquerilla west. women kick off sunday at 4 p.m. any points. if you don’t score sunday. positions to improve our game.” “our game starts with our [se-at labar Fields. points, you can’t win. it’s as schmitt said pasquerilla west nior] quarterback, kat leach,” simple as that.” Contact Rich Hidy at plans to switch senior safety dunn said. “she and her receiv-Contact Kit Loughran at 
The shamrocks are looking rhidy@nd.edu maria harmon to receiver and ers take care of the offensive kloughr1@nd.edu. 

paid adverTisemenT Temperatures are expected 
Waldrum 
to sit in the 50s and the con­
conTinued From page 20 

ditions look to be pitch-per-Tucker and her mobility, fect for soccer, something [freshman midfielder] cari waldrum hopes will bring out roccaro and her goal-scor-the best in his players and the ing ability, and some fresh-student section alike. men like [forwards] anna “playing at home is huge,” maria gilbertson and crystal he said. “having a crowd out Thomas can step up for us, there — that ‘12th man’ — to-too,” waldrum said. “Those morrow night will be huge for key players are going to be re-our players, and we need them ally important for us in terms to turn out. it’s up to us to take of creating chances.” advantage of that.” 
and while wisconsin-The team doesn’t boast milwaukee, the horizon much playoff experience league champion, doesn’t and is the youngest squad have a strong record or waldrum has ever had at hail from a power confer-notre dame. but with only six ence, waldrum said that the games standing between the panthers would nevertheless irish and the program’s fourth pose a stiff challenge for his national championship, their players. coach sees no reason to back 
“Their record doesn’t mark down now. them as a women’s soccer “our goal is not going to power, but what i noticed change just because we have in watching them was that a whole bunch of freshmen on they’re very well-organized the team this year,” waldrum and they are a group of hard-said. “we want to be back in working, blue-collar kids,” the Final Four. That’s our goal waldrum said. “and they’ve every year. if we lower that played in six games that have expectation, then we’re just gone to overtime, so they keep cheating those players.” most of their games close. notre dame will try and They’re a hard team to break take the first step towards down, and they’re probably the college cup when it takes playing their best soccer right on wisconsin-milwaukee to-now.” night in alumni stadium at 7 
notre dame will also p.m. have the advantage of play­ing in front of its home Contact Jack Hefferon at fans in alumni stadium. wheffero@nd.edu 



MEN’S INTERHALL 

Knott prepares for undefeated Keenan 
Unbeatens Sorin and Keough enter Sunday’s semifinal matchup with trip to the Stadium on the line 
By KYLE FOLEY 
sports writer 
second-round playoff action continues sunday, as no. 3 knott squares off against no. 2 keenan with a trip to the championship game in notre dame stadium on the line. 
coming off a 14-0 shutout against Fisher in last sunday’s quarterfinals, knott (4-1-0) will look to stay on pace offensively. 
“i loved our ability to run the ball and our defense [against Fisher] especially because we had several starters out with injuries,” senior captain Joe beglane said. “Fisher’s quarterback is a big guy, and it was tough to stop him on the run. i would like to see us run-defend better against keenan’s quarterback.” 
meanwhile, keenan (4-0-1) con­tinues to use the team motto of “one step at a time.” after losing as the top seed in the first round of last year’s playoffs, the knights have taken each game of the sea­son one step at a time, senior cap­tain andrew mcdonough said. 
similarly, beglane said the Juggerknotts hope to maintain their composure and avoid look­ing too far ahead. 
“i like our chances if we can exe­cute and not let them have any big plays,” beglane said. “we just have to focus on one game at a time. we cannot lose focus and start think­ing about the stadium.” 
last sunday, keenan shut down a dark-horse alumni team in a hard-hitting game that turned on keenan’s performance in the trenches. mcdonough said the knights would look to succeed up front against the Juggerknotts, as well. 
“in order to be successful, we need to control the line,” mcdonough said. “if we do this, it allows us to establish a run game, which in turn opens up the field for our receivers. if we can do this, i feel very optimistic about the outcome of sunday’s game.” 
The depth of the knights squad has helped carry the team to an undefeated record thus far, mcdonough said. 
“we live by ‘next man up,’” mcdonough said. “if someone goes down, we have the young guys to help us out. it is this depth that has contributed to our team unity and has enabled us to win.” 
sunday’s matchup promises to be a hard-hitting contest. with a trip to historic notre dame stadium on the line, knott takes on keenan on sunday at 1 p.m. at labar Fields.. 
Contact Kyle Foley at kfoley2@nd.edu 
Sorin vs. Keough 
By D.H. KIM 
sports writer 
coming off important vic­tories in last weekend’s quar­terfinals, no. 1 sorin and no. 4 keough meet in sunday’s semifi­nals with a berth to the champi­onship game on the line. 
in its quarterfinal matchup, sorin (5-0) overpowered dillon’s defense and shut down the big red offense to earn a 14-0 shutout.. 
meanwhile, keough (4-0-1) needed every minute to put away a tough siegfried squad in its quarterfinal showdown. with 30 seconds left in the second half and the score tied 6-6, keough junior quarterback seamus donegan threw the game-win­ning, six-yard touchdown pass to freshman receiver mitch patin. 
donegan said he anticipates a tough defensive battle this weekend. 
“both teams will have solid defenses this week, and we have to continue that,” donegan said. “i don’t know much about sorin, but we try not to worry and just play our football. 
after the kangaroos commit­ted several turnovers against siegfried, donegan said his team would focus on maintaining strong possession of the football. 
keough will also look for con­tributions from senior corner­back Joe williams and senior defensive lineman robby Toole, who were both critical in holding siegfried to six points, donegan said. 
sorin, meanwhile, avenged its loss to dillon in last year’s cham­pionship game by defeating the big red.  senior captain and run­ning back ryan robinson scored both touchdowns in the semifi­nal game. 
“we have always had a solid defense and that will be our key,” robinson said. “we just have to keep doing what we have been doing.” 


senior quarterback Ted spinelli is expected to play de­spite an injury that forced him out of sorin’s game against carroll several weeks ago. although the injury provided a major scare for the otters, spinelli returned the next week and has put up solid numbers since. 
sorin and keough will meet in a battle of strong defenses sunday at 2:15 p.m. at labar Fields. 
Contact D.H. Kim at dkim16@nd.edu. 
BARAKA BOUTS 

bouts conclude with second-round fights 
in the first fight of the night, the she controlled the fight by push-The contest was stopped at the 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 

sports writer junior hoang was forced to forfeit ing hoang around the ring with beginning of the second round, 
the match to the senior casill af-her swift left jabs. Throughout the leaving casill the victor. Alyssa “The Karate Kid” ter the first round due to injury. round, hoang was on the defen-Casill def. Jolynn “Baby J” casill opened the fight with a sive, battling back with a couple Ragan “Hot” Todd “y” def. Hoang series of quick jabs to the head. of left hooks. Teresa “Pika” Choe 
paid adverTisemenT 

The senior Todd utilized her quick movement and right hook to narrowly reach a split decision victory over the senior choe. 
Todd opened the fight with a series of aggressive, fast-paced headshots to choe, who main­tained a steady left-hand hook throughout the first round. 
with the start of the second round, the aggression and com­petition of the fight escalated as the two opponents battled one another with an explosion of headshots. 
in the third round, Todd con­tinued to stun choe with her right hook, giving her the advantage in the fight. ultimately, after a heat­ed exchange of punches, it was Todd who won the fight by split decision. 
Christina “The Cannon” Buchanan def. Brianna “Sting Like a Bee” Kunycky 
in an intense and evenly matched battle, the senior buchanan took home a split deci­sion victory. 
buchanan opened the fight with a strong punch to the se­nior kunycky’s head, taking her off guard. but kunycky attacked with a left hook shot, refusing to back down. 
see baraka PAGE 14 


First had a game-high 20 points on 6-11 
Brey 
shooting. 
conTinued From page 20 
conTinued From page 20 

ohio state enters the classic said. without having played an exhibi­
had to play our key guys to get “it’s supposed to be 67 [degrees] tion game. however, the buckeyes 
away from cardinal stritch the and sunny … Friday, but i think will present a tough test for the 
other night.” the sun will be setting by the time irish, mcgraw said. 
Fresh off its best season in the the game is in the second half, “it’s going to be a great game,” 
missouri valley conference, so it should be cooler, and we do she said. “They’re an experienced 
evansville returns three start-have some adidas long-sleeved team. They lost their starting 
ers and nearly 70 percent of its shirts to put on underneath the point guard to graduation, and 
scoring. uniforms.” we of course lost three starters. 
in their season opener a year notre dame received the in-so i think the rest of their team is 
ago, the purple aces defeated vitation around the time of last pretty experienced. we have a lot 
butler 80-77 in overtime, who year’s inaugural carrier classic, of new faces — we’re incredibly 
was coming off a trip to the 2011 which pitted north carolina young. it’s a big test for us this early 
ncaa championship game. against michigan state in a men’s in the season.” 
brey said the irish are aware of game on nov. 11, 2011 — veteran’s Friday marks the first time since 
evansville’s past early-season day. 2008 — when they defeated no. 22 
success and are expecting an “we were approached about lsu — the irish will begin their 
“unbelievable challenge” from it last year … we were called pri-regular-season slate with a game 
a veteran, perimeter-oriented marily because we have a former against a ranked opponent. if the 
team. player [danielle green] who was irish are to capture another sea­
“we’re not good enough to be attack. atkins, grant, senior for-that come to mind after those in the army and lost her arm in son-opening win they will have to 
looking past anybody, a team ward Jack cooley, graduate stu-seven that kind of established iraq, and they wanted some-show something on the defensive 
that won 16 games last year dent forward scott martin and themselves.” one with a military connection,” end, their coach said. 
that is trending up,” brey said. sophomore forward/guard pat even within the core of sev­mcgraw said. “They heard the “[senior guard] Tayler hill from 
“They can shoot the ball. They connaughton will again make en players, brey said he feels story about danielle green, and ohio state, one of their leading 
make shots from out there. up the starting five. senior he has a lot of versatility with so that’s why they wanted notre scorers in the nation, led the big 
They know how they play. … it’s center garrick sherman and substitutions and playing dame in the game. Ten in scoring, and also a great de­
a heck of a challenge for us. it’s a freshman forward cameron styles. “[green] is here with us, now. fensive player,” mcgraw said. “so i 
good, tough first game.” biedscheid round out the top “when you deal with just she flew out with us and she’ll be think she’s a big key to their team. 
evansville senior guard colt seven. while brey said he feels those seven, you’ve got a lot of at the game.” so we’ve got to come along defen­
ryan averaged 20.5 points per good about those seven players, interchangeable parts there,” in their lone exhibition contest sively. we lost [former irish guard] 
game last year and was named he is still deciding how to allo-brey said. “here is what we’ve this year, the irish defended their brittany mallory, who was our best 
to the all-conference first team. cate remaining minutes. done with the program … we home court and handed edinboro defender. we lost [former irish for­
“They’ve got a kid who can “where we go after [the first can put garrick sherman in an 88-28 loss on nov. 1. senior ward] devereaux peters, who was 
really score the ball,” brey seven] is still to be determined,” for eric atkins. we can sub a guard skylar diggins, one of only the big east’s best defender, so de­
said of the 6-foot-5 guard. “he brey said. “if somebody goes center for a point guard. … two returning starters from last fensively we’re very young.” 
can score it. he can put up 25 down in that seven, [fresh-we’re deep because there are a year’s national runner-up team, irish fans will get a first glimpse 
[points] easy. when you have man forward] Zach auguste lot of different combinations. netted 13 points and added seven of the new-look lineup Friday in 
really good veteran guards, has been impressive coming we’re deep at seven.” assists and five rebounds. Junior the carrier classic. notre dame 
you’ve got a chance every back [from an ankle injury] The irish battle evansville guard kayla mcbride, the other and ohio state will tip off at 4 p.m. 
night.” the last couple days. we have on saturday at 2 p.m. at purcell returning starter, contributed 12 aboard the uss yorktown. 
brey will look to two of his [senior forward] Tom knight, pavilion. points and 7 rebounds. however, 
own experienced guards — ju-who at the end of last season it was a new face leading the irish, Contact Joseph Monardo at 
niors eric atkins and Jerian gave us good minutes off the Contact Mike Monaco at as freshman guard Jewell loyd jmonardo@nd.edu 
grant — to propel the irish bench. Those are the two guys jmonaco@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT “you have to contain them. you 
Rivalry 
can’t allow them to get backdoor 
conTinued From page 20 

goals. you can’t allow them to get stepped up. They have a heck of odd-man rushes on the power a program, and it’s one we try to play,” Jackson said. “you’ve got to emulate. The style of play, the have skating ability, stick skills on success is something that we’re defense and anticipation. you’ve trying to replicate here.” got to be willing to block a shot 
despite losses from last year’s or win a battle on the wall to get championship squad, Jerry york’s pucks out.” team has remained at the top of The irish have a strong group the college hockey world, thanks of forwards on the penalty kill, in large part to sterling goaltend-led by junior mike voran, who ing and a lethal power play. The will hope to contain the eagles’ eagles rode the play of now-se-attack. on offense, notre dame nior goaltender parker milner to will continue to look to junior the national championship in his centers T.J. Tynan and captain first year as a starter in 2011-2012 anders lee for production. and have continued to rely on with both schools’ football him this year. The senior owns teams meeting on the gridiron 
a .932 save percentage and a 1.99 saturday, Jackson said the antici­gaa. pation for the game is heightened. 
The eagles have already net-“it’s a notre dame-b.c. week-ted 10 power play goals on the end,” Jackson said. “There’s a lot year at a 40 percent conversion of excitement.” rate that is first in the country. The irish and eagles will hit the acknowledging this strength, ice at kelley rink at 7 p.m. tonight Jackson noted that the irish will in chestnut hill, mass. have to play disciplined, penalty-free hockey and limit mistakes Contact Conor Kelly at on the penalty kill. ckelly17@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTrick cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: emma stone, 24; ethan hawke, 42; maria shriver, 57; sally Field, 66. 
Happy Birthday: refuse to get involved in melodrama. don’t limit the possibilities when it comes to your abilities and utilizing what you have to work with in order to get ahead. own what you have to offer, display it proudly and you will get the kind of response you need to reach the success you are searching for. your numbers are 8, 14, 22, 26, 34, 40, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Travel, regardless of distance, to enjoy the company of someone you share an interest with or who can contribute to what you are working toward. a change in your financial situation is apparent and a personal investment will pay off. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): give-and-take will be necessary if you want to maintain balance at work or within a partnership. don’t let emotions run wild. use your imagination wisely to differentiate what you have to offer. put pressure on anyone holding you back.   


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): choose your friends and colleagues wisely. you will be prone to getting involved with someone who withholds information or is vague. love is in the stars. networking will bring about both personal and professional opportunities 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): mingle with people who are into the same things you are. a creative hobby will bring about various options that will enable you to explore new avenues, pastimes and lifestyles. don’t let a jealous relationship stand in your way 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The people you are closest to will be the most difficult to deal with. keep an open mind and schedule interesting activities. a personal change will do you good. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t mix business with pleasure. avoid anyone looking for an argument or trying to pressure you into something you’d prefer not to do. overreacting, overspending and overindulging will end up ruining your personal plans. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): getting rid of clutter will serve a purpose. The help you give by donating items you no longer use will benefit someone who can offer you insight in return. exploring a creative idea will lead to prosperity. love is on the rise. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): depression will set in if you let emotional issues con­cerning a relative or friend get to you. Try to separate what you do from those having a negative effect on your emotional wellness. let your creative imagination lead to positive output. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take a close look at any deal being offered and you will find a way to slant it in your favor. use your charm or even a little innocent ma­nipulation and you will be able to make changes that will improve your life. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you can pick up information that will help you ad­vance if you are disciplined and attentive. Focus on consistency and responsibility and you will win favors and the support you need from someone in a high position. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t question others or volunteer information that is likely to be used against you or to defeat you. put more effort into your home, family and financial situation. you will also find a way to excel in a new and interesting direction. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): sit back and see what transpires. secure your position by observing what others do. stick to basics when discussing your plans. The less you share with others, the better you will do. For now, it’s best to be secretive about your plans. 


Birthday Baby: you are colorful, generous, sociable and curious. you are a good sport. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Tip-off 

After two exhibitions, the No. 22 Irish host Evansville in Purcell Pavilion for regular-season opener 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
“we’re playing with real bul­lets now.” 
with those words, irish coach mike brey signaled the start of the regular season, which begins when the no. 22 irish square off with evansville in the opening round of the coaches vs. cancer classic on saturday. 
notre dame is coming off a pair of exhibition victories that were anything but similar. The irish rolled to a 111-52 demoli­tion of division ii Quincy on oct. 29 before grinding out a 70-56 win over cardinal stritch of the naia on nov. 2. 
“we had to battle to beat cardinal stritch,” brey said. 
“who are we to look past any­body? if we can win, that’s a quality win. whoever wins saturday, it’s a quality win for the other one because i think evansville is going to get into the missouri valley [conference] and do a lot of damage.” 
brey said battling cardinal stritch for 40 minutes has pre­pared the irish to get that first quality win. 
“what i liked about the other night was at halftime, i told them, ‘we’re in one and we have got to figure this thing out,’ and we had game pressure on us,” brey said. “i’m really glad we had that kind of experience be­fore saturday and obviously we 
see brey PAGE 18 


HOCKEY 

Top-ranked eagles provide tough test 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 
one year ago, notre dame knocked off top-ranked boston college in dramatic fashion on “dedication night” for the re­cently-finished compton Family ice arena, courtesy of a goal from current junior bryan rust with just 1.2 seconds remaining in overtime. 
it was a signature win for the irish, and a scene the team hopes to repeat when no. 7 notre dame (6-2-0, 3-1-0-0 ccha) travels to chestnut hill, mass., for another matchup tonight with the once-again no. 1 eagles (6-1-0, 4-1-0 hockey east). 
boston college is once again ranked first in the country af­ter capturing the 2012 national championship, the program’s third in five years. 
while the annual game be­tween the two teams has always been a natural rivalry, the in­tensity has increased since the eagles defeated the irish 4-1 in the 2008 national championship game and will only become more fervent as the irish move from the ccha to hockey east next season. 
irish coach Jeff Jackson said that the growing importance of the rivalry speaks volumes about how far the irish program has come. 
“until a few years ago, i don’t know how seriously they took us,” Jackson said. “i think they take us seriously now. my first few years here, it was ‘just’ notre dame. now it’s ‘notre dame.’” 
“ever since the national cham­pionship game, the rivalry has 
see rivalry PAGE 18 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame opens season as part of Carrier Classic 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 
notre dame’s season opener will be the first of its kind as women’s basketball moves into the fringes of the ocean. The no. 7 irish and no. 19 ohio state will tip off their respective campaigns in the carrier classic aboard the uss yorktown in mount pleasant, s.c. 
For the irish, the game is the first since they dropped the national championship game, 80-61, to baylor on april 
3. notre dame will retake the court, but this time outdoors. 
“This is the first time ever a women’s game had been played on an aircraft carrier,” irish coach muffet mcgraw 
see FirsT PAGE 18 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

championship road begins in alumni stadium 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
once you reach the postsea­son, everything comes down to achieving and realizing your goals. but if no. 20 notre dame is to reach its expectation of challenging for a national cham­pionship, it is going to need just that: goals. 
The irish defense has held opposing offenses to one goal in the team’s past four games, keeping notre dame (13-5-2, 8-1-1 big east) in games despite its struggles to find the back of the net. Three straight 1-0 wins gave way to a 1-0 defeat at the hands of no. 10 marquette in the big east semifinals, eliminating the irish from the race for the conference crown. 
“we’ve really struggled in the past two or three weeks to score goals and create the kinds of chances we’ll need in this playoff run,” irish coach randy waldrum said. “so this week, we spent a lot of time on the attacking part of the game, and the training has been good and intense. it’s definitely been a playoff week, and i’m really pleased with that.” 
notre dame has one more chance to make this season an unforgettable one in the ncaa tournament, and that jour­ney will start tonight against wisconsin-milwaukee. The panthers (8-8-1, 5-2-0 horizon league) also boast a strong de­fense and have pitched three straight shutouts. waldrum said milwaukee-wisconsin’s staunch defense would force the irish to step up offensively, put­ting an emphasis on a few key players that could decide the game. 
“we need production [from junior midfielder] elizabeth 
see waldrum PAGE 16 






