
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Third Eye Blind returns to campus 
Student Union Board’s spring concert welcomes one act back, introduces another 

By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
This Saturday, Notre Dame students will get a blast from the past when, for the third time, Third Eye Blind headlines the Student Union Board’s spring concert. 
SUB concert programmers Lauren Keating and Meagan Guerin, both seniors, spoke en­thusiastically about the decision to host Third Eye Blind for a third time. 
“When we began the pro­gramming process, we went in with a completely open mind. We know the Notre Dame student body has such a diverse musical taste,” Keating said. “Third Eye Blind have stayed popular for so long that it shows they are a great band and will generate a lot of interest.” 
Keating and Guerin both ac­knowledged the difficulty of choosing an artist that would appeal to the entire student body, especially in the wake of last year’s sold out concert fea­turing Chiddy Bang and O.A.R. 
“We started by asking our­selves who we believed would appeal to most of the Notre Dame student body,” Keating said. “Ultimately, we decided that we wanted to entice the overall group enough that they will go to the show and end up 


Professor publishes paper on Fukushima 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
On March 11, 2011, the world held its collective breath as the Fukushima Daiichi nu­clear power station in Japan melted down after being inca­pacitated by the devastating earthquake and tsunami that left over 19,000 people dead or missing. 
A year after the tragedy, Notre Dame professor Peter Burns and his colleagues at Michigan and the University of California, Davis have pub­lished a paper in which they discuss the interaction of nuclear fuel on the environ­ment following such an ac­cident. 
“The paper looks at what is known, and then lays out a research agenda for under­standing how radioactivity is released from damaged fuel in different environ­ments that can happen after an accident,” Burns said. 
Burns said his paper seeks to build knowledge of the interaction of undamaged fuel with geological reposi­tories.  The paper also ex­amines existing knowledge 

see NUCLEAR/page 5 
having a great time rather than pleasing a small group a lot.” 
Hoodie Allen, an independent rapper from New York, will open the concert before Third Eye Blind takes the stage. By pairing an up-and-coming opener with a more established headliner, Keating and Guerin believe this year’s concert will match the success of last year’s. 
“I think we did a good job of keeping the concert on par with last year’s,” Keating said. “Last year’s was perfect because it paired two very different bands and appealed to two different groups. I think we have the same thing going this year. Third Eye Blind is so popular, but we also have Hoodie Allen, a pretty prominent up and coming hip hop artist.” 
Allen, a one time Google em­ployee, left his career at the In­ternet powerhouse to pursue a music career after generating significant interest during his side gigs, Keating said. 
“He is someone various people mentioned that they would love to see as an open­er,” Guerin said. “I wasn’t too familiar with him, but he is al­ready generating excitement.” 
Based on students’ reactions thus far, Keating and Guerin expect the concert to sell out. 
see CONCERT/page 5 



ND plans for  games at  night 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 

After the success of last year’s night game against USC, the Notre Dame foot­ball team will add two home night games to the upcoming season. According to a Uni­versity press release, Notre Dame will host Michigan on September 22 at night, while the game against Miami at Chicago’s Soldier Field will also be held at night. 
Mike Seamon, the associ­ate vice president for campus safety, said the game day op­erations team started to pre­pare for this season’s night games as soon as they were confirmed. 
“We’ll look to build on the successes of last year’s night game, while trying to iden­tify any new opportunities to improve the game day expe­rience,” he said.  “Last year, we had additional staff, fire department personnel, medi­cal teams, parking person­nel, police, on hand through­out the day and the night to help all the fans and guests.” 
Sophomore Kristen Jack­son said she is most excited for the night game against Michigan this coming season. 
“I’m excited for the Michi­gan game because my par­ents went to Michigan for col­lege,” she said. 

see GAMES/page 5 
Alumnus to launch new website 
By KRISTIN DURBIN 
News Editor 
Notre Dame is not often as­sociated with the phrase “tech startup.”
 But the Notre Dame-bred cre­ators of the social media web­site Wikify.me hope to put the University on the tech world’s radar with the site’s March 26 launch at Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross. 
“We’re trying to put Notre Dame on the map for a tech startup, to become known as ‘that tech startup that came out of Notre Dame,’” founder and 2011 alumnus James Ingalli­nera said. “Seeing a tech start­up out of Notre Dame is pretty unusual, so the idea of the start­up being successful would bring the school into a new domain.” 


Ingallinera founded Wikify.me in the fall of 2010 with the goal of offering users a “third-person 
perspective” on social media by featuring a “page about you cre­
see WIKIFY/page 5 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER DSLC Lecture page 3 u Viewpoint page 10 u Scene NCAA Bracket page 12 u Women’s Basketball moves forward in NCAA tournament page 24 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S YOUR FAVORITE MODE OF CAMPUS TRANSPORTATION? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jill Barwick Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Suzanna Pratt Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Anna Boarini Kelsey Manning Bridget Feeney Joe Wirth Ann Marie Isaac Lorton Jakubowski Scene Graphics Mary Claire Lisa Hoeynck O’Donnell Photo Viewpoint Sarah O’Connor Amber Galik  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 87 LOW 61 


Annie McEnery  Jane Herrmann  Caroline Schurz  Frank Conway  John Kearns  Carolyn Garcia  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  senior  freshman  senior  
Badin  Badin  Badin  off-campus  Stanford  Lyons  
“Piggyback  “Roller blading”  “The shuttle  “Walking”  “Boat”  “I usually walk,  
rides”  from ND to  but if I were cool  
C.J.’s”  enough I would  
ride a Razor  
scooter.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Utah woman, 101, paraglides into record books 
SALT LAKE CITY — A 101-year-old Utah woman who ushered in her birth­day with a tandem paraglide ride last year soared into the record books Tuesday. 
Great-great grandmother Mary Hardison, of Ogden, has been officially recog­nized as the “Oldest Female to Paraglide Tandem” by Guinness World Records. 
Hardison flew with an instructor on Sept. 1, 2011, while four generations of her family watched and cheered. Hardison said she wanted to paraglide because her 75-year-old son began doing it as a hobby. 
“I didn’t want him to get too far ahead of me, so I decided that I’d go too,” she said Tuesday.Hardison said she was shocked to learn her flight had become a world record. 
“To me, I was just going on a little ride,” she said. “I had no idea I’d break a record.” 
Hardison said her active lifestyle has already in­spired others her age to pur­sue similar adventures. 
“Some people have said, ‘Well, if you can do that at your age then there’s no need for me to just sit around,’” she said. “My desire is for the elderly to keep on going. Do things as long as you are physically able. Be positive. Friends don’t like a grumpy person.” 
Aspen man gets bike back from ‘drunk’ needing ride

 ASPEN, Colo. — A Colora­do man whose bike was sto­len says he bears no grudges against a remorseful person who returned it with a hand­written note of apology that was signed “Drunk.” 
The Pitkin County Sher­iff’s Office says the bike was left near the sheriff’s office and police department with a note that said: “Sorry. I stole this bike. I rode it home. Please give it back -Drunk.” 
Police tell the Aspen Times there were no wit­nesses. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 

A workshop for graduate students titled “Planning Ahead for Study and Re­search Abroad” will be held today from 2 to 3 p.m. in 102 Pasquerilla Center. 
A physics colloquium about “Cosmology with the South Pole Telescope” will be held today at 4 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Hall. 
A lecture titled “The Plea­sure of Reading in an Age of Distraction” will be given today at 4 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh library. 
Sign ups for the Super Smash Bros. tournament sponsored by the Japan club will be held from 5:30 to 8 
p.m. in LaFortune. Cost is $3 for one event or $5 for both. 
The Notre Dame base­ball team will play IPFW at 
5:35 p.m. tonight at the Eck 
Baseball Stadium. Student tickets cost $5. 
A discussion and net­working session on “Mak­ing a Living and Making a Difference” will take place tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Geddes Hall Coffee House. 
An optional information session about Pom Squad Auditions will be held at 7 

p.m. tonight in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. 
A reading by author Vu Tran will take place tonight at 8 p.m. in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 








HIGH 77 LOW 60 
HIGH 69 LOW 51 

HIGH 66 LOW 47 
HIGH 61 LOW 42 

Cambodian genocide survivor speaks at DSLC 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 
To kick off the Saint Mary’s Diverse Students’ Leadership Conference (DSLC), Cambodian genocide survivor Arn Chorn Pond shared his story of survival and healing under the rule of the Khmer Rouge. 
“When I was just nine years old the Communists took over the country,” Pond said. “My parents were executed and I was forced to watch my siblings crawl … to a death of star­vation. It was very hard for ers in the camp started a music group; only two members of that group are alive today. 
“Music got me through,” Pond said. “Even today, it still helps me to heal.” 
In 1980, after living several months alone in the Cambodian jungle, Pond was rescued and adopted by Reverend Peter L. Pond who brought him back to New Hampshire. 
“I felt very lucky, but very scared at the same time,” Pond said. “It seemed as though no one in the Unit­ed States un­derstood me or 

me to feel so p o w erl e s s and know that I could not help them.” While in the camps, s ol d i er s forced Pond  “Do not underestimate one person. Everyone has their own story to share. Everyone has their own pain. Do not spend time comparing pain, just live united. One by one you are the angel that the world needs. Go  where I came from.” After coming to the U.S., Pond said he felt an­ger, depression, resentment and even suicidal at times. His adopted father  
to partake in some of the  fly and be that angel.”  encouraged him to speak out and  
murders. “ S o me -times they  Arn Chorn Pond Cambodian genocide survivor  share his story to help deal with his feelings.“I  
would  force  didn’t  know  
me  to  help  what it meant to  
them  out,”  be heard,” Pond  

Pond said. “I was a prisoner, and said. “I never thought that white they could force me to push oth-Americans would care about ers into the graves. If I showed me, but I was wrong.” any emotion with the victims I He started speaking at local would have been killed.” churches and today his voice has 
Pond said his love for tradi-been heard by Amnesty Inter­tional Cambodian music, spe-national groups, the United Na­cifically the flute, helped him tions and even former President through his difficult experi-Jimmy Carter. ences. He and four other prison-After sharing he began to share his experience, Pond stepped into a new role: human rights activist. He is the recipi­ent of many international hu­manitarian awards and founder of several organizations, includ­ing Children of War, Cambodian Volunteers for Community De­velopment and Peace Makers. 

“I choose to sing and to start different organizations,” Pond said. “It is not easy to share my story, but it is part of my heal­ing process. I love the work that I do now because it saves lives and inspires others. This work allows me live.” 
DSLC chair Guadalupe Quin­tana said Pond’s talk was a per­fect way to kick off events for the conference because his talk will inspire others. 

“His story is very capturing and embodies everything that DSLC represents,” she said. 
Quintana said DSLC rep­resents sharing stories that would otherwise go unheard and learning of differences that would often go unnoticed. 
Pond expressed the impor­tance of embracing one’s roots and one’s own unique stories. 
“It is our life and our story,” Pond said. “Don’t deny your dif­ferences or your stories, because then you will be denying your culture.” 
Pond ended his talk by encour­aging the members of the audi­ence to go out in the community and share their voices for social change. 
“Do not underestimate one person,” Pond said. “Everyone has their own story to share. Everyone has their own pain. Do not spend time comparing pain, just live united. One by one you are the angel that the world needs. Go fly and be that angel.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 


Legends holds focus group for Saint Mary’s students 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Legends of Notre Dame is a restaurant, bar and club that serves as a gathering place for the Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross communities. On March 8, the Legends marketing team held a focus group at Saint Mary’s for students to voice their opinions and concerns. 
Catherine Flatley, a Notre Dame junior and marketing re­search manager of Legends, is in charge of coordinating focus groups. 
“We try to get a better insight to specifically what students want to see at Legends,” Flatley said. “Focus groups and surveys are held for Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students so that we can find ways to bet­ter serve our customers’ needs.” 
By holding a Saint Mary’s fo­cus group, Flatley hoped to learn how Saint Mary’s students looked at Legends differently from Notre Dame and Holy Cross students, she said. 


“By acknowledging the needs of the Saint Mary’s students, we will be able to modify the expe­riences they have at Legends to make it more enjoyable,” Flatley said. 
JoLynn Williams, Saint Mary’s senior and Legends’ branding manager, also assisted Flatley in holding the Saint Mary’s focus group. 
“I am the only Saint Mary’s student on the marketing team at Legends, so we felt that my pres­ence in this focus group would be very important to maintain­ing our goals,” Williams said. “A big part of my job is to make sure we can extend the olive branch to Saint Mary’s students and re­mind them that while Legends is on Notre Dame’s campus, we cater to the whole community of students.” 
Over the past four years, Wil­liams noticed there has only been one promotion driven by handing out flyers, as opposed to posting them in dorms, for a Legends event on Saint Mary’s campus. 
“There are usually three to four members of the marketing team on campus [Notre Dame] who hand out promotions for our events happening each weekend,” Williams said. “Saint Mary’s has not seen this much.” 
Williams said this type of pro­motion can help bring people to events. 
“The one time I saw this type of promotion for an event at Leg­ends, it struck me so much that I actually went to the event and enjoyed myself,” Williams said. 
By holding the Saint Mary’s focus group, Flatley and Wil­liams hoped to gain constructive criticism to make changes where needed. 
“We use more of guideline questions to steer our focus groups so that the participants have a chance to get the dialogue really flowing without being pushed in different directions,” Flatley said. “This is what leads to the constructive criticism, which is what we are looking for.” 
When building the focus group, the participants tended to be ju­niors and seniors, Flatley said.
 “The most common thing we heard was Legends being com­pared to other bars around town and the differences between Leg­ends and other go to places in the community,: she said. 
To maintain the constant input from Saint Mary’s students, Wil­liams hopes the marketing team at Legends will have at least one or two students from Saint Mary’s on future teams. 
“I know there have been Saint Mary’s students on the team in the past, but currently I am the only one on the marketing team,” Williams said. “It would be truly beneficial to maintain a work­ing relationship between Saint Mary’s, Notre Dame and Holy Cross students in the future.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


Nuclear 
continued from page 1 
of the physical processes that occur during a meltdown and instantaneous release of gas­eous radioactivity.“There’s a lot of unknown in between these two scenarios,” Burns said.  “We don’t have any real studies of the interaction of water with damaged fuels when the radiation field is in­tense.” 
Although he said it can be useful due to its high melting point, Burns said nuclear fuel is also extremely hazardous to people and the environment if improperly released. 
“The fuel going into the re­actor is pretty much harm­less, but the fuel coming out is at least a million times more radioactive,” Burns said. “Once containment is lost, bad things happen to the popula­tion.” 
As director of an federal En­ergy Research Frontier Center focusing on actinides, Burns said the decision to write this paper flowed more from the requirements of his work than from any private interest. 
“It’s just a normal progres­sion of our study and our work [at the Research Center],” Burns said.  “I guess I wasn’t so much inspired as I was just doing my job.” 
As a review article, the paper could not cite any unpublished work, and thus served to pro­vide new analysis without uti­lizing new data, Burns said. 
“For this type of article, it was more about combining knowledge than it was creating knowledge,” Burns said. “We had to distill all the literature on the subject.” 
Burns said he dislikes get­ting into political discussions about the continued usage of nuclear fuel, preferring to deal 
said. .The night game provides the University an opportuni­ty to tell its story to an even 

continued from page 1 broader audience. A game at Notre Dame Stadium under the lights is a pretty special Sophomore Matt Hayes said experience.. 
he is most excited to watch the Even though night games are 
Games 
Irish play in a large venue in a big city. 
“I got to go to the Army game, so I’m really pumped to see us play in a legit stadi­um at night,” he said. 
Seamon a fan favorite, they are not going to be 

“The energy is just a lot heavily inte­grated into 
better. You have more time 
future Notre 

to get into the game.” 
Dame football schedules, se-

Noah Rangel 
nior associate 

sophomore athletic direc­tor for media relations John Heisler said. 
also looks forward to another game under the lights. 
.I enjoyed seeing the Uni­versity showcased in prime time on national television,. he 
“For a variety of reasons, the University is not looking for a steady diet of home football night games,” he said. “How­ever the response to the Notre with the facts and leave the debating for others. 
“I would imagine that de­veloping nations are going to build a lot of new nucle­ar reactors, so I don’t see much point in engaging in a debate about whether it’s a good idea, or whether it should happen, because it is happening,” Burns said. 
Ultimately, Burns said he hopes the paper will serve as a springboard for future research to address the lack of knowledge of water’s in­teraction with damaged fuel, thus putting the world in a better position to deal with a future nuclear acci­dent. 
“We want to better equip society to deal with the next serious nuclear ac­cident and to minimize its impacts,” Burns said. 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 


Dame-USC game last year proved favorable and that certainly played a major role in consideration of an­other home night game for 2012.” 
Even though the Univer­sity does not plan on add­ing more night games in the future, many students would like to see more on the schedule. 
“The energy is just a lot better,” sophomore Noah Rangel said. “You have more time to get into the game.” 
Freshman Max Brown also wants to see more games played at night. 
“A night game is a really cool experience, he said. “I mean, they already have the lights there.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
Concert 
continued from page 1 

“We had a lot of requests for Third Eye Blind,” Guerin said. “We did casual polling and asked students to name five bands they would like to see come to campus. They were included on a lot of peo­ple’s list.” 
Even though nineties hits “Jumper” and “Semi-Charmed Life” remain the band’s most popular songs, Keating be­lieves the band’s energy will capture the audience. 
“They do play their hits, but you don’t have to know every song to enjoy their concerts,” Keating said. “They play all their instruments and sing live, and the lead singer walks around the stage the entire 
Wikify 
continued from page 1 
ated by your friends,” he said. 

“It’s an alternate perspective to everything out there in social media, which revolves around the first-person perspective,” Ingalli­nera said. “You are the modera­tor of your own page, but others can contribute to it. You have complete control of everything on your page, from who can contrib­ute to it to who can see it.” 
After enlisting a firm to build the original version of the site, In­gallinera recruited 2011 alumnus Trey Griffith, senior KC Youm, juniors Kyle Buckley and Bobby Thompson and sophomore Mi­chael McDonald to serve as the site’s “house team.” Since gradu­ating from Notre Dame, Ingal­linera has quit his job at Bain Capital to pursue development of Wikify.me full-time. 
Wikify.me will initially be open exclusively to students at Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross. Based on the site’s perfor­mance and user feedback, the team will decide whether to ex­pand to a larger audience or keep it on “home turf,” Ingallinera said. 
“We’re starting here because we feel that the feedback we get would be more useful from some­where we’re already affiliated with and help us create a success­ful company,” he said. 
Thompson likened the site to a “reverse Twitter” that focuses on users’ thoughts about a given user instead of a user’s thoughts and opinions on others. Wikify. me pages also display a list of con­tributors on the side of the page, which Thompson said fits in line with the “followers and follow­ing” feature of Twitter. 
Youm said the current version of the site has been simplified to a few core features but will change according to user feedback. 
“We had a bunch of ideas in the beginning and we had to stream-time and really engages with the audience.” 
Guerin said Third Eye Blind has a reputation for engaging concerts. 
“They are known for putting on really good, fun shows,” Guerin said. “I’ve heard noth­ing but good things about their concerts from friends who have attended their shows be­fore.” 
Tickets go on sale today at 7 
a.m. in the LaFortune box of­fice for all Notre Dame under­graduates. At 9 a.m. Thurs­day, St. Mary’s, Holy Cross and Notre Dame graduate students cawn purchase tickets. When purchasing tickets, each stu­dent can bring up to three ID cards and buy one ticket per ID. The doors to Stepan open at 7:30 p.m. Saturday with the concert beginning at 8 p.m. 
Contact Aubrey Butts at abutts@nd.edu 

line it, so we are going to start with as stripped down a version as we can and then build on it based on user feedback,” Youm said. 
Ingallinera said user feedback will be especially important in developing the site, which is one of the first of its kind in terms of its unique perspective on social networking. 
“It’s a new concept that hasn’t been tested too extensively to date, so it’s kind of a question mark,” he said. “Well over half the people we’ve run the idea by found it interesting and were willing to sign up, so I think it will be pretty well-received.” 
In addition to offering users personal pages featuring contri­butions from other users, Wikify. me will eventually incorporate pages for other organizations based on user feedback, such as restaurants, local businesses and student organizations, Ingalli­nera said. 
“The concept of the site involves the outside looking in versus the other way around,” he said. “We want to start with people but branch out beyond individuals to whatever our users want to see in terms of what everyone is saying about those things.” 
Youm and Thompson said they and other team members have been promoting the site among their friends and in related class­es, including computer program­ming and Internet development, and feedback from these promo­tions has been generally positive. 
Based on this initial feedback, Ingallinera and his team said they are optimistic about the fu­ture of Wikify.me and its ability to bring Notre Dame into the realm of social media development. 
“We hope to help Notre Dame establish a presence in an area that it is largely unknown for … by building a real company,” In­gallinera said. 
Contact Kristin Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


Romney wins Illinois Republican primary 
Associated Press for statehood the island common­
wealth should adopt English as 

SCHAUMBURG, Ill.  — Front-an official language. runner Mitt Romney sailed to an While pre-primary polls taken easy victory in the Illinois prima-several days ago in Illinois sug­ry Tuesday night, trumping Rick gested a close race, Romney and Santorum in yet another indus-Restore Our future, a super Pac trial state showdown and padding that backs him, unleashed a bar-his already-formidable delegate rage of campaign ads to erode lead in the race for the Republi-Santorum’s standing. One ad ac-can presidential nomination. cused the former Pennsylvania 
“What a night,” Romney told senator of changing his principles cheering supporters in suburban while serving in Congress, while Chicago. Turning his attention two others criticized him for vot­past his GOP rivals, he said he ing to raise the debt limit, raise had a simple message for Presi-his own pay as a lawmaker and dent Barack Obama, the Demo-side with former Sen. Hillary Rod­crat he hopes to face and defeat ham Clinton to support legislation in November: “Enough. We've had allowing felons the right to vote. enough.” In all, Romney and Restore Our 
Romney triumphed after bene-Future outspent Santorum and a fitting from a crushing advantage super PAC that backs him by $3.5 in the television advertising wars, million to $500,000, an advan­and as his chief rival struggled to tage of 7-1. overcome self-imposed political Romney’s victory was worth at wounds in the marathon race to least 13 delegates. pick an opponent to Obama. That gave him 535 in the overall 
Returns from 47 percent of the count maintained by The Associ­state’s precincts showed Romney ated Press, out of 1,144 needed to gaining 50 percent of the vote win the nomination. Santorum compared to 33 percent for San-has 253 delegates, Gingrich 135 torum, 9 percent for Ron Paul and and Paul 50. 7 percent for a fading Newt Gin-In the long and grinding cam-senators who supported legisla-Illinois fell into Romney’s col-heavyweight, we're in trouble.” grich. paign, Santorum looked to re-tion that was bitterly opposed by umn far more easily than Michi-Anticipating a primary defeat, 
Exit polls showed Romney pre-bound in next Saturday's primary labor unions. gan or Ohio had. Santorum’s campaign argued ferred by primary goers who said in Louisiana, particularly given Already, Restore Our future has The night’s vote count was that the race for delegates is clos­the economy was the top issue in Romney's demonstrated difficul-put down more than $2 million in plagued by ballot difficulties. Ru-er than it appears. the campaign, and overwhelm-ties winning in contests across television advertising across Wis-pert Borgsmiller, executive direc-Santorum contends the Repub­ingly favored by those who said the Deep South. consin. Santorum has spent about tor, of the Illinois State Board of lican National Committee at the an ability to defeat Obama was A 10-day break follows before $50,000 to answer. Elections, said in late afternoon convention will force Florida and the quality they most wanted in a Washington, D.C., Maryland and Neither Newt Gingrich nor Ron that 25 counties and the city of Arizona to allocate their delegates nominee. Wisconsin hold primaries on Paul campaigned extensively in Aurora were affected by the bal-on a proportional basis instead of 
The primary capped a week in April 3. Illinois. lot problem. He didn't know how winner-take-all as the state GOP which the two campaigns seemed Santorum is not on the ballot in Gingrich has faded into near-ir-many ballots were affected but decided. Romney won both states. to be moving in opposition di-the nation's capital. relevance in the race, but he was said “clearly you can say more On Tuesday, about four in 10 rections — Romney increasingly Private polling shows Romney defiant in a statement issued after than hundreds.” voters interviewed as they left focused on the general election with an advantage in Maryland, Romney sealed his victory. Romney and Santorum cam-their polling places said they were battle against Obama while San-and Restore Our Future launched “To defeat Barack Obama, Re-paigned energetically across the evangelical or born again. That's torum struggled to escape self-a television ad campaign in the publicans can’t nominate a can-state, and not always in respect-about half the percentage in last created controversies. state during the day at a cost of didate who relies on outspending ful tones. week's primary states of Alabama 
Most recently, he backpedaled more than $450,000. his opponents 7-1. Instead, we “Senator Santorum has the and Mississippi, where Santorum after saying on Monday that the Wisconsin shapes up as the need a nominee who offers pow-same economic lightweight back-won narrowly. Despite an unusu­economy wasn't the main issue of next big test between Romney erful solutions that hold the presi-ground the president has,” Rom-ally lengthy race for the nomina­the campaign. “Occasionally you and Santorum, an industrial state dent accountable for his failures,” ney said at one point. “We're not tion, less than a third of those say some things where you wish next door to Illinois, but one where it said. going to replace an economic voting said in the polling-place you had a do-over,” he said later. Republican politics have been Gingrich said his campaign will lightweight with another econom-survey they hoped the primary 
Over the weekend, he was roiled recently by a controversy spend the time leading to the par-ic lightweight.” season would come to a quick end humbled in the Puerto Rico pri-involving a recall battle against ty convention “relentlessly taking Santorum had a tart reply. even if that meant their candidate mary after saying that to qualify the governor and some GOP state the fight to President Obama.” “If Mitt Romney’s an economic might lose the nomination. 

Donors contribute to super PACs 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON  — Major con­tributors to a key Republican po­litical organization founded by political strategist Karl Rove have boosted their financial support for Mitt Romney, signaling that the GOP’s big money may be starting to coalesce around Romney’s can­didacy, according to an analysis by The Associated Press of federal election data released Tuesday. 
Wealthy GOP donors like Bob Perry, Philip H. Geier Jr. and Jerry Perenchio collectively provided much of the $6.4 million in con­tributions last month to the pro-Romney “super” political commit­tee Restore Our Future, mostly from Perry's $3 million contribu­tion, according to campaign re­cords submitted to the Federal Election Commission. 
The donors also are among the most generous contributors to American Crossroads, the super PAC founded by Rove, who was a top adviser to President George W. Bush. Crossroads is likely to be­come the pre-eminent GOP group airing negative advertisements against President Barack Obama this year. 
The new campaign reports il­lustrate the financial advantage that Romney —the winner in Tuesday's Illinois primary —har­nessed heading into Super Tues­day primary elections. Romney, ahead in the count of Republican delegates, was aided by more than $29 million worth of ads paid for by Restore Our Future, the super PAC supporting his campaign. 

That $29 million figure is higher than spending by any other Repub­lican super PAC or campaign, in­cluding Romney’s own campaign. Super PACs, like Romney’s and Rove's groups, are not permitted under federal law to coordinate directly with campaigns — but the PACs often pay for media cam­paigns that allow the candidates to concentrate on state organiza­tions and get-out-the vote efforts. 
So far, other GOP candidates have struggled to keep up with the financial support that Romney's candidacy has enjoyed. Gingrich, the former House speaker who won the South Carolina and Geor­gia primaries, collected only $2.6 million last month while spending roughly $2.8 million during the same period, his campaign said. Much of his support has come in the form of ads from Winning Our Future, which received a $5 mil­lion infusion from Las Vegas ca­sino mogul Sheldon Adelson and his wife, Miriam. 
The Rick Santorum-supportive super PAC— the Red, White and Blue Fund — brought in $2.9 million last month, including $600,000 from longtime support­er and Wyoming businessman Foster Friess. Santorum’s own campaign pulled in about $8.9 million in contributions during the same period when he saw a surge in support. 
All told, the money flowing to Republican super PACs is expect­ed to counterbalance cash flowing to Obama’s campaign, which has raised more than $120 million in total contributions as of Feb. 29. The political committee support­ing Obama, Priorities USA Action, collected $2 million last month. 
Romney has lost several South­ern primaries, but his campaign raised more than $11 million in February. Helping his campaign 
— albeit independently under federal law — Restore Our Future has spent millions on attack ads against rivals Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum. 
Perry, 79, previously gave $1 million to the pro-Romney super PAC in addition to his $3 million last month. He also gave $2.5 mil­lion to Rove's group. He heads a major Houston-based home­building empire and has been a million-dollar player among GOP fundraisers since the late 1990s, working closely with candidates and causes tied to Rove. Perry was a big money contributor to Bush's campaigns for Texas gov­ernor and was a top bundler for his 2000 presidential race. 

Santorum looks for win in Louisiana primary 
Associated Press 

GETTYSBURG, Pa. — Dealt a resounding defeat in Illinois’ presidential primary, Republi­can Rick Santorum brushed off the latest loss to rival Mitt Rom­ney and told his supporters on Tuesday to “saddle up like Rea­gan did in the cowboy movies” and help him narrow a seem­ingly insurmountable deficit in delegates. 
Santorum had hoped to make a real contest of Illinois, the birthplace of actor turned pres­ident Ronald Reagan, but he was outspent in advertising by a 7-to-1 margin by Romney and his allies and fled the state be­fore balloting began. 
“We’re heading to Louisiana for the rest of the week, then we’re back here in Pennsylva­nia and we’re going to pick up a whole boatload of delegates and close this gap and then on to victory,” he told a packed ho­tel ballroom in Gettysburg, Pa., as more than 1,000 supporters waited outside. 
Santorum won the Southern states of Alabama and Missis­sippi last week. Romney has not posted a win in the South since his January triumph in Florida. “We’re feeling very, very good 
about  winning  Louisiana  on  
Saturday,”  Santorum  said  to  
cheers.  

A 10-day break follows Loui­siana before Washington, D.C., Maryland and Wisconsin have primaries on April 3. Santorum is not on the ballot in the na­tion’s capital, the latest example of his campaign's struggle to or­ganize. 
But Santorum has shown new signs of political life. Aides said the campaign raised more than $9 million in February and has more than $2.6 million on hand for a Republican primary that shows no sign of ending soon. 
Santorum campaign sought to downplay the Illinois results, instead looking at adding dele­gates from rural areas to Santo­rum’s column in any sum. 
“Whoever wins the state doesn't matter as much as who wins the different congressional delegates, so that’s how we'll be keeping score,” longtime San­torum adviser John Brabender told reporters. 
“We’re not even at halftime yet,” he said. “And so, you know, we'll get through tonight.” 
Office of Sustainability hosts energy competition 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWKSI 
News Writer 
This March, the Office of Sus­tainability is working to make sure the buildings on each quad are just as green as the lawns and trees around them. The fourth annual campus energy competition is taking place from March 10 to 30, splitting the 29 residence halls into four teams to collectively “go green”. 
Rachel Novick, outreach pro­gram manager for the Office of Sustainability, said the project’s goal is to build awareness about energy conservation among students on campus. The office has projects aimed at reducing energy in classroom and facil­ity buildings, but Novick said the residence halls are also an im­portant target. 
“We definitely want to work with buildings across campus to conserve energy, but students have the most opportunity to im­pact the places where they live,” Novick said. “It’s a great educa­tional tool and provides a way for them to think about sustainabil­ity and making more sustainable choices.” 
The four teams are South Quad, North Quad, West Quad and Mod/God Quad. The com­petition takes into account the varying number of dorms on each team, as well as each dorm’s respective size and char­acteristics. 
“Each dorm is ranked online against its own baseline, using data from a few weeks ago to compare conservation rates in­dividually for each dorm in each quad,” Novick said. 
The competition’s progress can be tracked online through the Energy Dashboard on the Of­fice of Sustainability’s website, which updates the energy use data for each dorm regularly and shows each team’s current rank­ing. Novick said the dashboard data will continue to be updated even after the competition so in­terested students can keep track of how their dorm consumes en­ergy compared to the others on campus. 
“The dashboard is a fantas­tic tool because people can re­ally see the impact of the energy they’re using and see the use in their dorms change day by day,” Novick said. 

Similar competitions have been held each year since 2008, but according to Novick, the decision to group the dorms in teams was new for this year. 
“We teamed the dorms up in quads instead of having every­one on their own because we thought it would be fun to have quad events as part of the com­petition, and we also wanted to see more cooperation among the dorms,” Novick said. 
Sustainability commissioners from each dorm are in charge of posting flyers to spread news of the competition, as well as to tell their hall mates about opportu­nities to conserve energy. 
“We definitely encourage stu­dents to think about those things or items that sit around the dorm, like a freezer or refrigerator in a break room that might be rarely used,” Novick said. “Clothes dry­ers might be the biggest energy user in the dorm.” 
According to the energy dash­board, South Quad leads in the competition with a 30.6 percent energy reduction as of Tuesday night, closely followed by Mod/ God Quad, which attained a 28.4 percent reduction. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Storms sweep through south central U.S., destroy towns 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Storms shuffled through parts of the south-central United States again Tuesday, bringing more heavy rain, damaging winds and thunder so loud some peo­ple in Oklahoma mistook it for an earthquake. 
Forecasters said the slow-moving storm system that socked the region Monday could cause more flash floods, hail, strong winds and possibly tor­nadoes in a corridor stretching from Texas east to Louisiana and as far north as Missouri. 
The National Weather Ser­vice issued tornado watches for parts of Arkansas, Texas and Louisiana, though the watch in the latter states expired by Tuesday evening. Two torna­does in the San Antonio area injured at least eight people and damaged about 30 buildings Monday. A twister injured four people and damaged homes near North Platte, Neb., on Sun­day. 
In central Arkansas, strong winds Tuesday afternoon caused extensive damage in the town of Morrilton and contrib­uted to at least one injury when a tree fell on a home, authorities said. 
“Anytime a tree falls on a house, someone is going to get hurt, but no one went to the hospital by ambulance,” deputy emergency manager Brandon Baker said, adding that “we have lots of houses with trees right through them.” 
The city parks complex was destroyed along with the con­cession stand and exhibit build­ings at the Conway County Fair­grounds, Baker said. 
In Baxter County in northern Arkansas, several people were be widely felt.” 




Manhunt continues in Southern France for school shooter 
Associated Press 
TOULOUSE, France — Police searched southern France on Tuesday for an expert gunman suspected of fatally shooting seven people in the head at close range in attacks that may have been moti­vated by neo-Nazi ties or grudges against minorities. 
The shooter is suspected of car­rying out three deadly attacks: leaving four people dead on Mon­day at a Jewish school in Toulouse, three of them young children; kill­ing two French paratroopers and seriously wounding another last Thursday in nearby Montauban; and fatally shooting another para­trooper in Toulouse on March 11. 
All the victims in the school attack were Jewish with duel French-Israeli citizenship, and the paratroopers were of North Afri­can or French Caribbean origin. The shots were fired at such close range that the gunfire burned the skin, prosecutor Francois Molins said Tuesday. 
“We are confronted with an indi­vidual extremely determined in his actions, an armed individual who acts always with the same modus operandi,” he said, “in cold blood ... with premeditated actions.” 
He added the crimes appear to be premeditated due to the killer’s “choices of victims and the choices of his targets” — the army, the for­eign origin of the victims or their religion. 
The killer could “act again,” he said. 
Interior Minister Claude Gueant described the suspect as “someone very cold, very determined, very much a master of his movements, and by consequence, very cruel.” 
However, his suggestion that the attacker was wearing a camera around his neck that could be used to film and post video online was described by the prosecutor as “a hypothesis.” 
Norway's Anders Behring Breivik, the right-wing extremist who killed 77 people in a rampage last year, had suggested in an on-line manifesto before the killings that a camera could be used to film such “operations.” There was no mention in his indictment that he used one. 
On Tuesday night, the school at­tack victims were being flown to Israel for burial there, accompa­nied by French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe. 
A funeral service is being held Wednesday in Montauban for the paratroopers. 
All three attacks — which also left a paratrooper and a teenage boy seriously wounded —were carried out by a man on a power­ful Yamaha motorcycle who was wearing a helmet and carrying a Colt 45, Molins told reporters in Paris. 
But he said other clues to the killer’s identify were scarce. 
Molins noted that the attacks had occurred every four days, but said he could not address secu­rity arrangements that might be in place Friday — the fourth day after the attack on the Jewish school. 
President Nicolas Sarkozy has raised the terror alert for the southwest region to scarlet, the highest level on the four-color scale that automatically added 14 new units of riot police and gendarmes to the region. 
Hundreds of extra police will be on duty Wednesday for the funeral services of the three paratroopers and Sarkozy will speak. 


More than 200 specialized in­vestigators, including psycholo­gists and profilers, are on the case and “no clue will be abandoned or neglected,” Molins said. Hundreds of people have been questioned, but no one has yet been detained and no searches carried out, he added. 
The manhunt took place as friends and family tearfully mourned the four people slain Monday at a Jewish school in northern Toulouse — a rabbi, his two young sons and a young girl. 
A “monster” is on the loose in France, Sarkozy declared, vowing to track him down. 
“There are beings who have no respect for life. When you grab a little girl to put a bullet in her head, without leaving her any chance, you are a monster. An anti-Semitic monster, but first of all a monster,” he said. 

The focus fell Tuesday on three paratroopers who had been ex­pelled from their regiment near Toulouse in 2008 for neo-Nazi sympathies, a police official said. 
The prosecutor said that track was among those being studied. Investigators also are checking the hypothesis that the killer could be a former soldier with psychologi­cal issues or with racist and anti-Semitic motives. 
The killer has shown he can handle large-caliber guns with expertise, leading some to suspect he had a military or police back­ground. 
France was reeling Tuesday af­ter the school attack, the deadli­est school shooting in the country and the bloodiest attack on Jewish targets in decades. Schools across the country  and French schools around the world  held a moment of silence Tuesday to honor the vic­tims. 
The French Football Federation said that a minute of silence in memory of the victims was being observed before each match in the French Cup quarterfinals on Tues­day and Wednesday night. 
In Monday's shooting, the at­tacker first gunned down a rabbi and his two young sons, then chased down the daughter of the school principal, shooting her dead at point-blank range. Reports of the children's ages varied, with the Israeli Embassy saying Tuesday the boys were 3 and 5 and the girl was 8. 
Three online dating sites screen for sex offenders 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES  — Three on-line dating giants agreed to screen for sex offenders and take other safety steps after a woman was assaulted on a date, the California attorney gener­al's office announced Tuesday. 
Match.com, eHarmony and Spark Networks signed a joint statement of business principles intended to provide an example for the industry and help guard against sexual predators, iden­tity theft and financial scams. 
“Consumers should be able to use websites without the fear of being scammed or targeted,” Attorney General Kamala D. Harris said in a statement. 
Among other things, the com­panies agreed Monday to check subscribers against national sex registries, supply members with online safety tips, and provide a quick way to report abuses. Some of the companies already are using some of those practices. 
The dating services also will provide the attorney general's office with reports of suspected criminal activity, she said. 
The statement is nonbind­ing and carries no enforcement penalties, but it does publicly hold dating sites to account for their members' safety, said Lyn­da Gledhill, a spokeswoman for the attorney general's office. 
“They can’t be sued by private parties based on this agree­ment. We fully expect that the companies will, in good faith, comply,” she said. 
Match.com, based in Dallas, was a pioneering dating web­site. Owned by IAC/InterAc­tiveCorp, It now operates in 24 countries and territories in 15 languages. 
Based in Santa Monica, eHar­mony operates in the United States, Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom. 
Spark Networks Inc., based in Beverly Hills, runs a number of dating sites geared to specific religions and ethnicities. 
Last year, an estimated 40 million Americans used an on-line dating service and spent more than $1 billion on dating website memberships, accord­ing to the attorney general’s of­fice. 
In statements, the three com­panies all said they make the safety of their members a pri­ority and hoped the statement would encourage other compa­nies to adopt similar policies. 
The statement was prompted by the 2010 sexual assault of a Los Angeles-area woman by a man she met through Match. com, Gledhill said. Alan Wurtz­el had a string of previous con­victions for sexual battery. 
Prosecutors said that on their second date in 2010, Wurtzel drove the woman to her home, followed her inside and assault­ed her. 
The defense at first argued the sex was consensual, but Wurtzel last year pleaded no contest to sexual battery by re­straint and was sentenced to a year in jail. He also was ordered to register as a sex offender. 

Allen testifies before Congress 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Republicans looking for a political opening to challenge President Barack Obama on national security got little help Tuesday from the top military commander in Af­ghanistan, who insisted that the White House is heeding his ad­vice. 
In his much-anticipated ap­pearance before Congress, Ma­rine Gen. John Allen said shift­ing the security responsibility from U.S. and coalition troops to Afghan forces is on track more than 10 years after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and after more than a decade of war. The on­going conflict has divided Con­gress and increased the public demand to bring the 90,000 U.S. troops home, a call that grew louder in recent weeks after burnings of Qurans and a shoot­ing spree that killed 16 Afghan civilians stoked anti-American rage. 
The current plan calls for the 
U.S. to withdraw its surge force of 23,000 American troops by the end of September, with a complete drawdown by Decem­ber 2014. Allen told the House Armed Services Committee that he would assess the insurgency threat and the progress of coali­tion forces later this year before recommending the pace of fu­ture withdrawals — a step that pushes that decision past the No­vember elections. 
Republicans repeatedly pressed Allen on whether the White House, facing election-year pressure to speed up the drawdown, was at odds with the military commanders, dic­tating the mission or the size of the U.S. force. Republicans hope to challenge the Democratic commander-in-chief on national security issues, but the killing of terrorist leader Osama bin Lad­en, a weakened al-Qaida and the end of combat operations in Iraq have given the GOP limited op­portunities to criticize Obama. 

The president gets high marks in public opinion polls on nation­al security. 
Focusing on the narrative that Obama isn't listening to his com­manders, Rep. Mike Conaway, R-Texas, questioned what Allen would do if the administration announces, without his input, what the size of the U.S. force in Afghanistan should be. 
“I've been given no indications that there is a number that will ultimately be detailed to me to build a strategy around,” Allen said. 
One exchange with the chair­man of the Armed Services pan-el, Rep. Howard "Buck" McKeon, R-Calif., underscored that Al­len and his commander in chief were speaking from the same page at this stage in the conflict. 

“Have you been given assur­ances by the White House that you can have the forces that you believe you need through the end of the 2013 fighting season?”McKeon asked. 
“I have been given assurances by the White House that we're in a strategic conversation, chair­man. There has been no number mentioned. There has been no number that has been specifical­ly implied,” Allen said. “There's an excellent, I believe, strategic conversation that is going on, that will account for my recom­mendation, the recommendation of the theater commander, and the Joint Staff in this process. And I'm very pleased, frankly, with where we are in that con­versation now.” 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Mad for March Madness 
This year, March brought quite a few surprises to South Bend — sunny skies, green grass, warm weather — but to me, March has always meant one thing and one thing only: March Madness. Already some of my friends Katie Heit are rolling their eyes. After one Sports Writer weekend of com­petition, they are already tired of the constant presence of basketball in their lives. What they don’t understand is that March Madness is hands-down the greatest three weeks of sports in the entire year. Sure, the Super Bowl has its merits, the Masters create an entertaining Sunday afternoon and the All-Star weekend pulls our focus away from the real world for a few days. March Madness, however, is magical. It catches the attention of sports lovers and haters alike, creating a sense of competition between people who might normally not care at all. 
People watch every game because they have a personal interest in who wins — they don’t want to see their bracket busted only two games in. It’s the time of year where anything can happen. No. 15 seeds can defeat top-ranked Missouri (effectively bust­ing one of my brackets). Bad calls can prevent No. 16 teams from making history (I am firmly of the belief that the officials handed Syracuse their first game) and, yes, even Xavier can find some luck and defeat our beloved Irish. It is a time of impossible hope as you place your favorite team in the National Championship round, despite their seventh seed, and you believe with all of your heart that anyone who does otherwise is a traitor. It’s the time when Friday and Saturday nights are sacrificed in favor of heart-pounding wins and horrifying losses. 
It’s one of the only times during the year when it is acceptable to yell at your television. It is a time of empower­ment, as you tell the coaches through your TV what exactly they and their players are doing wrong. It is a time when you always know best, more so than your fellow viewers and more so than the experienced coaches and play­ers. I’ve found that, as the players are now near my own age, I feel much more in the right to yell at them that they’re making stupid mistakes and need to start using their brains. It is also the only time of the year where I can enter a sports competition against the Ob­server Sports department and actually feel like I know what I’m talking about (a feeling that has been proven by my current first-place status). 
For all of these reasons and a few more, March Madness is by far my favorite time of year. When the fi­nal buzzer sounds after the National Championship in two weeks, no matter who wins the title, I will find myself disappointed. I will also find myself drafting possibilities for next year’s bracket. 
In the meantime, you can be assured that, come this Friday night, I will be sitting alone in my room, yelling at the television as my KU Jayhawks hopefully save me from another year of shame by advancing to the Elite Eight. 
Contact Katie Heit at      kheit@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Feeling lonely? Try Lent 
Most of us know that we enter into the 40 days of Lent, in part, in imita­tion of Jesus, who before beginning his public ministry entered the desert for 40 days, where he was tempted by but ultimately overcame Satan. I Fr. Lou DelFra always begin each Lent with this im-Faithpoint age of Jesus bat­tling in the desert. Perhaps imagining Jesus duking it out with Satan provides a bit of a spiritual adrenaline rush as my own 40 days be­gins; but, like most adrenaline rushes, it wears off soon after. 
So here we are, halfway through Lent, with some Lenten resolutions perhaps already by the wayside while others are badly leaking. We stand in need of some motivation, a halftime pep talk, a reinvigorated purpose for persevering in the Lenten promises and self-denials to which we committed with such determination way back on Ash Wednesday. 
Recently, I discovered one such source of mid-Lenten motivation.  I found it in the Gospel of Luke, chapter 5, verse 16. The verse reads simply: “Jesus often withdrew to lonely places to pray.” Despite their simplicity, those words leapt off the page and clung to me throughout the day, stirring up something in my soul that I struggled to grasp. It seems Jesus didn’t enter the desert just once at the beginning of his ministry to battle with Satan, defeat him and then get on with his life. Rather, says Luke, he “often withdrew to lonely places to pray.” Why this con­tinual disruption of the normal rhythm of his daily life? The question is impor­tant to our purposes because if Jesus had to constantly withdraw to the des­ert, might there not be some motivation for us, in the middle of our forty days, to persevere in our withdrawal and disruption (giving up sweets, meat or whatever) as well? 
“Jesus often withdrew to lonely places to pray.” For someone who, ac-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
cording to the Gospels, so fully reveled in the company of others and was so fully immersed in a life of active ser­vice, it’s a curious and almost counter­intuitive description. I think in the past I have conveniently misread the line, choosing a more comfortable reading than perhaps is warranted. I usually have interpreted it to mean, “And Jesus would frequently get so tired by his service and the busyness of life, that he needed to withdraw from time to time in order to rest and reenergize.” 
But there’s a problem with this read­ing. There are many times when Jesus needs precisely to rest and reenergize, which Luke describes differently, without that stark phrase “withdraw to lonely places.” The most conspicu­ous is after the feeding of the 5,000 people, an obvious point when Jesus would have needed a break. Luke 9:10 reads, “After they had fed the crowds, Jesus took his disciples with him, and they withdrew by themselves to a town called Bethsaida.” He goes with friends, and there’s no mention of that haunting phrase “lonely withdrawal,” with all its Lenten connotations of separation, self-denial, discomfort and longing. No, when Jesus needs to rest and rejuve­nate, he normally withdraws with his disciples. 
So, I wonder if Luke is being very deliberate about his word choice when he says, “And Jesus often withdrew to lonely places to pray”? If Luke is being deliberate, then I wonder if Jesus is not engaging in a continuous spiritual act of Lent in these moments. That is to say, I wonder if he is not momen­tarily withdrawing to lonely places precisely to feel lonely. Not so that he will become depressed and gloomy, for which the Gospels give no evidence, but so that he can recall and stay in touch with one of our most basic human re­alities (especially before his death and resurrection). A reality that was ham­mered home during his initial 40 days in the desert: that at some level, we are cut off from home, separated and alienated from God, from one another and from creation. And that if we don’t have times and seasons when we get in touch with this uncomfortable, agitat­ing reality, we actually become less human, less attuned to an important part of the human condition. 

The near-instantaneous connection Jesus has with the alienated, the lonely and the sick throughout the Gospels never ceases to amaze me. From walk­ing into a town square in Samaria and conversing with the troubled woman at the well, to calling out to the alienated thief Zacchaeus in the sycamore tree; from trespassing the purity laws to touch the leper, to standing up for the entrapped woman caught in adultery 
— when Jesus senses someone who is separated, his compassion wells up and impels him to connect, intervene and save. How is he able to respond so con­sistently, so fully, so lovingly, to these outcasts? 
I wonder if it is not because “often” he himself “withdrew to lonely places” to stay in touch with the deep human reality of our alienation and the even deeper longing to be reconciled. Per­haps this is a reason, in the dog days of Lent, to persevere in our resolutions and discomforting self-denials — so that we too can, so to speak, with­draw momentarily to a deserted place, experience an emptiness or a hunger, recall that we all live with our deepest desires as yet unfulfilled and realize a disturbing percentage of our planet still lives with their most basic desires unfulfilled. In doing so, perhaps we might become more conscious of our longing for God and respond more com­passionately when we encounter the lonely and alienated in our lives. 
This week’s column is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, director of Pastoral Life for ACE and member of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It takes a great deal of courage to stand up to your enemies, but a great deal more to stand up to your friends.” 
J.K. Rowling British author 

WEEKLY POLL 
What are you giving up for Lent? 
Huddle candy Facebook stalking Super Smash Brothers Naps 

Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Wednesday, March 21, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
State of disaster 

Warren Buffet, America’s most fa­mous investor, often says: “You don’t know who is swimming naked until the tide rolls out.” The Great Reces­sion has revealed many different policy shortcomings in America that were Adam Newman hidden during the 1990s and 2000s by Scientia a relatively strong Potentia Est economy. Some such shortcomings are the massive unfunded obligations that states face due to their retirement obligations for public sector workers. While it may not seem interesting or important, this situation is already having a devastat­ing effect upon the states. If left un­reformed, it could even lead to a new economic crisis. 
According to the Pew Research Center, the 50 states have a combined $1.26 trillion in unfunded liabilities owed to retirees for pension and health care benefits. This crisis has material­ized over past decades as state leg­islators, eager to gain the support of public sector employee unions, voted to increase pension and health care ben­efits while lowering the contributions that workers had to make and the age at which they could retire. Meanwhile, most states did not properly fund these benefit increases and promised unre­alistic returns on investments made to 
UWIRE 

In his 2008 book In Defense of Food: An Eater’s Manifesto, Michael Pollan advised people to restore simplicity to food practices. Pollan’s message, clearly encapsulated as, “Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants,” resonated Beatrice Walton strongly with the myriad groups Harvard and differentiated Political Review movements that have morphed into “the food movement.” In stressing sim­plicity, these recent efforts at food re­form have differed from their predeces­sors by moving past the politics of food production, regulation, and inspection. They focus instead on the diverse ethi­cal, cultural, environmental, and health implications of food. Yet, despite that broad focus, the recent food movement is inherently political.  By challenging us to slow down and carefully consider pay for the benefits. 
My home state, Illinois, is a prime ex­ample of how retirement benefits have not only put the state in a bad situation but have also paved a road towards bankruptcy. Currently, the state can fund about 51 percent of its benefit promises, much lower than the 80 per­cent that the Government Accountabil­ity Office recommends. The situation was so bad in 2009 that Illinois was forced to borrow money through bond sales to make the 2010 contribution as mandated by law. Recently, it was pro­jected that the Illinois retirement fund would go bankrupt in 2018, meaning that in 2019, Illinois would be forced to allocate one-third of its budget to make its mandatory retirement benefit contribution. For Illinois and other states, these obligations may have been appropriate decades ago, but are simply unaffordable today. 
The most important reform states can take is switching retirement plans from defined benefit (pensions) to defined contribution (401K). A defined benefit plan calculates future retire­ment benefits based on final salary, years worked and cost of living. Thus, it is possible for state legislators to promise huge benefit increases without allocating funding for them, creating future unfunded liabilities. A defined contribution plan is based on an em­ployee making ongoing contributions to a retirement fund that the employer then matches. Because of the matching formula, it is not possible to create un­funded liabilities with defined contribu­tion plans, because if state legislators decide to increase retirement benefits for their employees, they must cut spending or raise taxes in the present. 
Other necessary reforms include rais­ing the retirement age on state work­ers (some can retire as early as 50), amending state constitutions so that at least 80 percent of all benefit increases are covered by tax increases or spend­ing cuts and having public employees pay more for their retirement benefits. 
The recession and weak recovery has led many Americans who work in the private sector to lose their jobs or take pay and benefits cuts. As more Ameri­cans have learned about the perks that public sector employees receive due to the political clout of public sector unions — whether it is early retire­ment, protection from pay or benefit cuts, lush retirement packages or a job for life — many have began to harbor bad feelings toward the public sector. This dissent will most likely increase as states raise taxes to pay for the cost of past unfunded promises. 
Public sentiment against public sec­tor unions helped propel Republican governors like Chris Christie (New 
The politics of food 
the consequences of food consumption and creation, the movement and its crisscrossing components challenge us to rethink the role of government in the new “politics” of food. 
Though the movement often strives for simplicity in food practices, its debates hardly have narrow scope.  In one sub­set of food politics, health and lifestyle concerns drive efforts to change Ameri­ca’s “food culture” and render its defin­ing practices more sustainable.  This has given rise to campaigns promoting gardening, composting, healthy cooking, and food literacy.  Likewise, as Ameri­cans continue to struggle against diet-related illnesses, government health experts are tasked with balancing the country’s needs for greater access to quality food (online article) and limit­ing unhealthy food in programs such as school lunches.  This debate is central to efforts to reform the food stamp program, where ensuring positive health outcomes is more important than ever, given that one out of every seven Americans currently uses the program. In these instances, the food movement has stressed the importance of fostering positive relationships with healthy food. 
Elsewhere, there is concern about how governments impact agricultural practices.  From subsidies in the U.S. Farm Bill to preferential trade poli­cies for European agricultural produc­ers in the EU’s Common Agricultural Policy, debate as to which crops should be supported and what effects those preferential policies have on developing foreign markets. Genetically modified crops, and their potentially controver­sial environmental effects, are also in­cluded in this discussion. Furthermore, political moves to support agriculture at the expense of natural resources have recently come under fire, as with the Jersey), Scott Walker (Wisconsin) and Terry Kasich (Ohio) into power. Even some Democratic governors, like New York’s Andrew Cuomo, have taken on the perks and benefits that public sec­tor workers receive. 

Tough choices will be forced onto states concerning public sector em­ployee benefits that have been decades in the making, whether states choose to embrace them or not. Public sector em­ployees should work with state govern­ments to solve the crisis. If citizens see this effort, they will be more willing to pay more in taxes. Fighting tooth and nail to protect outdated and unafford­able retirement benefits could be a tragic political miscalculation. It could create a road for bankruptcy for states like Illinois and California and produce more anti-union politicians like Scott Walker. My guess is that the public sec­tor employees will not take this advice. Even still, it is important for them to remember (especially as states begin to make unpopular and painful decisions) that if you do not come to the table, you will eventually be placed on the menu. 
Adam Newman is a junior finance major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Florida Everglades. 
Ultimately, moves towards sustain­able, grass-grazed, cage-free, and organic foods, as well as improved food access and culture, form the backbone of the modern food movement. Still, as China’s example shows, oversight is still necessary, particularly when concern­ing the deceptive food-marketing tactics of corporations in the developing world. If there is one overarching goal that ev­eryone in the food movement agrees on, it is avoiding exporting past mistakes of the United States’ unsustainable and unhealthy food practices abroad. 
This article was published in the Spring 2012 issue of the Harvard Political Review, a quarterly magazine published by Har­vard University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Sweet Sixteen 
No. 4 Indiana Hoosiers vs. No. 1 Kentucky Wildcats 
Who dat say they gon’ beat them Hoosiers? That’s not right ... Earlier in the year Indiana pulled off one of the biggest upsets of the season beating Kentucky on a last-second shot. This time around, the Wildcats’ athleticism in the paint will out muscle Indiana’s reliance on the 3-point shot in a hard-fought defensive struggle. Just kidding, I just pulled some of the most overused headlines from the sports pages of The Observer. Indiana Hoosiers, because Indiana grows corn and I like cornbread. Plus, that Ken­tucky kid’s unibrow is revolting. Get it out. 
No. 10 Xavier Musketeers vs. No. 3 Baylor Bears 
Man has had a longstanding conflict with the bear. De­spite years of peace talks and deliberation, bears remain ruthless even with their cuddly appearances. In this bat­tle between man and wild, we must side with the Bears. We could hardly imagine a present-day militia being able to take down a pack of grizzlies, let alone these so called “musketeers” from the 1800’s. Baylor Bears by a claw-ful. 
No. 4 Louisville Cardinals vs. No. 1 Michigan State Spartans 
Every March people remember those overused lines from the mov­ie “300” and proclaim, “This is Madness!” when referring to March Madness. While the immediate reply in the movie is, “This is Spar­ta!” people forget that the Spartans died at the hand of Xerxes. We’re siding with the Persians on this one. Louisville Cardinals by 300. 
No. 7 Florida Gators vs. No. 3 Marquette Golden Eagles 
The problem with Gators playing basketball is that they aren’t very tall nor can they jump very high. Gators are very scary animals and not a good choice to play against in a game of water polo, but for basketball I’m going with the Golden Eagles — they can fly and are golden. Plus, this guy playing for Marquette looks like a robot version of Kanye West. Now, I’m gonna let Florida fight to the finish, and I’m really happy for them, but Marquette will win in one of the great­est NCAA games of all time! Marquette Golden Eagles by 5 platinum albums. 



Photos courtesy of stinkpaw.blogspot.com 

Elite Eight 
No. 4 Indiana Hoosiers vs. No. 3 Baylor Bears 
It’s a matchup of the new upstarts versus the tra­ditional powerhouse. Not the teams themselves, of course, but the uniform styles. Indiana plays it clas­sic and simple, with the same maroon and white look they’ve used for decades. It calls back to the good old days of Indiana basketball, when Bob Knight threw that chair at that kid. On the other side, you have Bay­lor, the flying highlighters. Seriously, the neon yellow needs to go. It’s frightening. Indiana wins, mercifully. 
Scene Staff Report 

The original Scene bracket, l pretty roughed up by the first w ville going down that early real has decided to collectively re-p maining teams and show off i Just kidding. It just gave Scene y force all the stereotypes the Spo are our picks, along with the soning behind them. Check bac and Championship predictions. 



No. 4 Louisville Cardinals vs. No. 3 Marquette Golden Eagles 
In a classic matchup of the Catholics versus Rick Pitino, I think God wins. Rumor has it the Louisville players didn’t even give anything up for Lent. Plus, we flipped a coin ten times and it came up for Mar­quette on six of the ten. Clearly God is on their side. Marquette wins, by 40 days and 40 nights. 
Photo courtesy of iuhoosier.cbscollegestore.com 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, March 21, 2012 page 13 
, like many others this year, got 
t weekend of games. UNC-Ashe­ly killed us. But the Scene staff Sweet Sixteen 
ick its bracket based on the re-
ts prophetic sports knowledge. No. 4 Wisconsin Badgers vs. No. 1 Syracuse Orange 
e yet another a chance to rein-Since they’re known as the “Orange,” Syracuse should have 
orts section has about us. Below 
a mastery of orange colored spheres. Contrarily, badgers are somewhat unconventional rea­
probably more inclined towards woodland matters and other ck next week for the Final Four 
small animal things. Syracuse by a bushel. 
No. 6 Cincinnati Bearcats vs. No. 2 Ohio State Buckeyes 
Skyline Chili trumps any food that has come out of Columbus, Ohio. I mean, has any famous food come out of Ohio (not in­cluding Cincinnati, that is)? The Bearcats, fueled by this food of champions, will overcome the odds to beat OSU. Plus, it’s no lon­ger the Ides of March, so Brutus and his Buckeyes are doomed to fail. Cincinnati by a Loaded Chili Bowl. 
No. 13 Ohio Bobcats vs. No. 1 North Carolina Tar Heels 
Michael Jordan played for the Tar Heels. And he played for the Toon Squad. The Monstars, aka Bobcats, don’t stand a chance, particularly without Mike’s Secret Stuff. My money’s on Bill Murray coming in the second half to lead the Tar Heels to victory. North Carolina Tar Heels by a montage of Michael Jordan dunks. 

No. 11 North Carolina State Wolfpack vs. No. 2 Kansas Jayhawks 
Go Irish! Beat Wolfpack! SUCK IT, WOLFPACK! Go, Irish, go! At least one of us on staff remembers the chants from her first football game fresh­man year, and now that Charlie Weis is a Jayhawk I like the chances of their offense putting up a lot of points. Kansas Jayhawks by a Golden Tate touchdown. 





Photo courtesy of thepenaltyflagblog.com 

Elite Eight 


No. 1 Syracuse Orange vs. No. 6 Cincinnati Bearcats 
It’s a slugfest fit for the MGM Grand, with the hideous bright orange of Syracuse up against an upstart challenger, the black and red camo outfits of Cincinnati. No clear loser there. A bearcat versus the color orange? Sounds like a win for the bearcat, until you realize that a bearcat is really just a glorified possum. Well, our editor’s roommate is from Cin­cinnati; he’d love it if he’d get some quiet about it for a day or two. Syracuse, because shut up Andrew. 
No. 1 North Carolina Tar Heels vs. No. 2 Kansas Jayhawks 

What’s a Tar Heel? What’s a Jayhawk? Nobody really knows for certain. But what I do know is the fighting force in Kansas called the Jayhawkers resisted the Southerners who tried to make it a slave state in the pre-Civil War era. Score one for freedom. Kansas by four score and seven. 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Denver transitions from Tebow to Manning 
What have you done for me lately? 
The age-old adage continues to apply more and more to the modern world of sports busi­ness, which looks more like business than sports too much of the time these days. 
Football fans have witnessed an extreme case Andrew Owens of the cruelty of business in Assistant sports with Managing the Peyton Editor Manning saga. 

After 14 seasons with the Colts, the first 13 of which were injury-free, Manning was let go by Indianapolis in early March. 
During the past couple weeks, several teams courted the future Hall-of-Famer, before he eventually decided to continue his illustrious career with Denver, which will likely displace another starting quarterback from his perch: the eternally polarizing Tim Tebow. 
Tebow won over the hearts of the Broncos’ fanbase with a late-season surge (was it Tebow or was it the defense?) that resulted in a playoff berth and a thrilling overtime win over the Steelers. 
Regardless, Manning’s sign­ing shows Denver has moved on from its young quarterback, whom executive vice president of football operations John Elway never fully embraced. 
It’s hard to argue with the deci­sions made by either organization. The Colts have the opportunity to select Andrew Luck with the first overall pick, a player who is ironi­cally regarded by many as the best signal-caller in the draft since Man­ning or Elway. The team’s roster moves over the past couple weeks reveal a team trading its veterans for a fresh start after last season’s 2-14 Manning-less debacle. 
Rarely does a team have the opportunity to immediately replace a legendary quarterback with one who has the potential to be the same. The Packers represent the exception, not the norm with Aaron Rodgers. 
Look at the Dolphins: They still haven’t found a quarterback since Dan Marino retired over a decade ago. 
Heck, it took the Lions 50 years after they dumped Bobby Layne to find Matthew Stafford. 
With Denver, the shift from the run-happy Tebow to the leadership and precision of Manning was an easy one. Without the passing skills necessary to sustain success in the NFL, Tebow is likely to be a one-hit wonder, whereas Manning instantly propels the Broncos into the Super Bowl discussion. 
Regardless of the opportunities Luck and Manning present to the Colts and Broncos, respectively, it is still amazing to think of how quick­ly these organizations have chosen a new signal-caller, especially with Indianapolis. 
Peyton Manning was the In­dianapolis Colts. He led the team to playoff berths year after year, including a Super Bowl victory in 2006, the team’s first since 1970 when they were known as the Baltimore Colts. 
Although the team choked in the playoffs more often than even LeB­ron James, Manning gave the Colts credibility among the league’s elite and was viewed as the class of the National Football League during the past decade, with the likes of New England and Pittsburgh. 
Even after owner Jim Irsay declined to pick up Manning’s $28 million option for 2012, No. 18 showed why he is a true throwback in today’s NFL. He thanked the Colts and their fans for the opportunity and never complained about being let loose by the only organization he has ever known — something he certainly had the right to do. 
No one really knows how the con­troversial decisions these organiza­tions have made will play out. 
Maybe Manning will win a Super Bowl in Denver in the next three or four years before retiring. 
Perhaps Luck is next in line in the strong tradition of elite Colts quarterbacks. 
Would it even be that surprising if Manning never fully recovers from the neck operations or if Luck fails to live up to the grand expecta­tions? 
Only time will determine the suc­cess of Manning, Luck and Tebow. But one thing is for sure: If any of these signal callers trip up, the teams will already be on the phone with the next candidate. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Manning welcomed in Denver 
Associated Press 
DENVER — Peyton Manning stood next to John Elway, holding up a bright orange jersey with the No. 18 on it. 
Yes, that could take some getting used to. 
And now if Manning’s surgi­cally repaired neck cooperates, these two quarterbacks — one in the Hall of Fame, the other headed there one day — think they might be taking a similar photo together, only next time they’ll be holding a Super Bowl trophy. 
Manning was introduced as the new quarterback of the Denver Broncos on Tuesday, the four-time MVP taking the spot once held by Elway, who as Broncos vice presi­dent engineered the deal to bring the NFL’s most sought-after free agent to town. 
It’s a deal that could also mark the end of Tim Tebow’s days in Denver — a bold move, for sure, but one Elway was more than will­ing to take. 
“Plan B?” he said. “I don’t have a Plan B. We’re going with Plan A.” 
After his photo op with Elway and owner Pat Bowlen, Manning answered many of the questions that have been bouncing around since March 7, when his old team, the Indianapolis Colts, released the quarterback and set in motion one of the most frenetic free-agent pur­suits in history. 
On the neck injury that kept him off the field through 2011: “I’m not where I want to be. I want to be where I was before I was injured. There’s a lot of work to do to get where we want to be from a health standpoint.” 
On his potential role in being the man who could bring about the end of Tebow’s popular stay in Denver: “I know what kind of player Tim Tebow is, what kind of person he is, what an awesome year it was. If Tim Tebow is here next year, I’m going to be the best teammate I can be to him. He and I are going to help this team win games. If other opportunities pres­ent themselves to him, I’m going to wish him the best.” 
On Elway’s role in leading him to choose Denver over other suitors, the most serious of which were the Titans and 49ers: “I’m seeing him as the leader of a franchise. I really liked what he had to say. Everyone knows what kind of competitor he is as a player. I can tell he’s just as competitive in this new role. That got me excited.” 
And so, the deal was sealed. 
Manning has a five-year, $96 million contract and plans to re­tire in Denver. His familiar No. 18 was actually retired — a tribute to Denver’s first quarterback, Frank Tripucka, who was more than happy to let Manning bring it out of mothballs. The Broncos, mean­while, have some protection in the way the contract was formulated. There’s no signing bonus. Manning will get $18 million guaranteed for next season, but must pass a physi­cal before each season, starting in 2013, to get paid. 

“I don’t consider it much of a risk, knowing Peyton Manning,” Elway said. “I asked him, ‘Is there any doubt in your mind that you can’t get back to the Peyton Man­ning we know of?’ And he said, ‘There’s no doubt in my mind.’” 
It was 14 years ago that Bowlen stood on the podium in San Di­ego, lifted the franchise’s first Su­per Bowl trophy and proclaimed: “This one’s for John.” 
But this franchise hasn’t been anywhere near what it was since Elway retired a year later with a second title in tow. 
His return to the front office last year set off a whirlwind of activ­ity that landed the Broncos in the playoffs. But Elway has always been in this to win Super Bowls and he’s throwing his hat in with Manning, the 50,000-yard passer who redefined the quarterback position through the 2000s, not Tebow — who seems most com­fortable carrying and not throw­ing the ball. 
“Tim Tebow’s a great kid. If I want someone to marry my daugh­ter, it’s him,” Elway said. “Tim is a great football player, but with the opportunity that presented itself here, we had to take advantage of that.” 

He said no decision has been made on Tebow’s future, but he seemed to be preparing the quar­terback’s fans to say goodbye. 
“That’s the tough part of this business,” Elway said. 
Manning, who turns 36 on Sat­urday, said he made a quick con­nection with Elway, who won his two Super Bowls in Denver after his 37th birthday. Since No. 7’s re­tirement, a long string of quarter­backs have come to Denver, trying in vain to replace the unreplace­able. If anyone can get out of that shadow, Manning could be the man. 
He’s got two trips to the Super Bowl and one title, 11 Pro Bowls and was the fastest player to reach 50,000 yards and 4,000 comple­tions. 
Long known as a master stu­dent of the game, there are hours of highlights available that begin with Manning standing at the line of scrimmage, surveying a defense, checking out of a play — or two — then calling the right one and get­ting the Colts to the end zone. 
It’s expected he’ll be able to run his kind of offense in Denver, which reverted to an option-style system to maximize Tebow’s po­tential last year. 
One other factor in Manning’s decision to play outdoors in the Mile High City: The nearly $40 million in salary cap room the Broncos have, putting them in the mix for quality free agents, pos­sibly including Manning’s former teammates Jeff Saturday and Dal-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
CLASSIFIEDS Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR SALE  FOR RENT  WANTED  PERSONAL  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  LIMERICKS  
Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has  
many resources in place to assist  The limerick is furtive and mean  
you. If you or someone you love  You must keep her in close quarantine  
2002 Audi A4 1.8T quattro.  Faculty or Grad Students Only.  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make  If you used Yaz/Yazmin/Ocella  needs confidential support or  Or she sneaks to the slums  
Excellent condition.85,000  Immac 3br with large rec room,  a difference in the life of a child!  birth control pills or a NuvaRing  assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn  And promptly becomes  
mi.$8,000. 574-273-8683  garage, walk to campus. $1200/mo +  Summer therapy camp for children  Vaginal Ring Contraceptive  at 1-7819. For more information,  Disorderly, drunk and obscene.  
utilities 847-420-7589  with physical disabilities. Located  between 2001 and the present and  visit ND’s website at: http://  
on the shores of Lake Superior in  developed blood clots, suffered  pregnancysupport@nd.edu  
House for rent. 3BR $600 per  Big Bay, MI. Positions available for  a stroke, heart attack or required  There once was a dinosaur named Fred  
bedroom. Utilities included. 506 No  Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors  gall bladder removal, you may be  A Baby is a Blessing: Adoption  Who liked to eat nothing but bread.  
ND Ave. Call 574-272-2940  for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation,  entitled to compensation. Call  We’re both educators who value  But it had not been invented  
Nurses, Therapists, Food Service,  Attorney Charles Johnson, 1-800­ learning, family and our happy 8  So he grew thin and dented  
Faculty or Grad Students. Spacious 2br,2-1/2 ba with LR,DR,fam rm, 4-season rm, AC, Sec Sys, 2-car gar, near campus, bsmt, fen. yrd + utility rm, no pets. $1500/mo + utilities. 262-332-0015  and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 10 through August 5. $1800 plus room board, and the experience of a lifetime provided. Download application: www.baycliff.org. For  535-5727.  yr marriage. We’ll give your child a happy home, a stay-at-home mom and a large, devoted Catholic family (9 cousins and growing!). We very much look forward to talking to you. Call Kim &amp; Robert (855)  And soon he was lying there dead.  
more information call or e-mail:  788-2810.  
(906) 345-9314 or baycliff@baycliff.  
org. Email baycliff@baycliff.org  

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Griner completes historic dunk in Baylor’s rout of Florida 
Georgia Tech, Duke defeat Georgetown, Vanderbilt to advance to Sweet 16 of NCAA tounament 
Associated Press  Baylor led 35-26 at halftime, but  ing herself up toward the rim.  
Griner was only beginning to as- When the game started, Griner  
BOWLING GREEN, Ohio —  sert herself. She scored eight points  was called for an early charging foul  
Brittney Griner took a pass from a  in the first half, including six in the  when she tried to dribble coast to  
teammate, stepped toward the bas- final 3:56.  coast following a defensive rebound.  
ket, stretched out her right arm and  “It was hard to get her touches,”  She didn’t attempt a shot until about  
slammed the ball through.  Mulkey said. “I go back to what I’ve  midway through the half and didn’t  
Then the Baylor star reacted in  said all along. I don’t care how you  score until a layup with 8:18 re- 
typically modest fashion.  guard Griner. We’ve seen it all. If  maining.  
“I think my team got fired up a  you guard her with two and three,  The Gators used a zone defense to  
little bit more than me. I got a little  the other positions are going to be  deny Griner the ball inside, and al­ 
bit more fired up, I think, on one of  exposed and we will score. If you  though Baylor led 26-11 at one point,  
the blocks I had,” Griner said. “But  guard her with one — you saw what  Florida answered with a 9-0 run.  
it definitely felt good throwing it  happened tonight when they guard- Griner then scored six quick  
down.”  ed her with one.”  points for the Lady Bears — two free  
Griner became the second wom- Griner began the second half with  throws, a putback and a shot from  
an to dunk in an NCAA tournament  a turnaround and a layup. Then Ki- out near the free throw line. The  
game Tuesday night, and top-seed­ metria Hayden came up with an  Gators kept answering for the rest of  
ed Baylor rolled to a 76-57 win over  offensive rebound near the basket  the half, but that stretch was a sign  
ninth-seeded Florida. The 6-foot-8  and passed to an open Griner, who  of things to come for Griner.  
junior phenom went nearly 12 min- dunked for the first time since Feb.  Griner went 8 of 14 from the field  
utes without scoring at the begin­ 19, 2011, at Texas Tech.  with nine rebounds and six blocks.  
ning of the game, but she finished  The Lady Bears led 41-28, al- Florida beat Ohio State in the  
with 25 points.  though Florida didn’t exactly crum­ first round, defiantly holding off  
The highlight, of course, was Gri­ ble.  the Buckeyes in front of a partisan  
ner’s dunk early in the second half.  “We talked about it in the locker  crowd in northwest Ohio. The Ga­ 
“That wasn’t just a barely-over­ room. We know she’s capable of do- tors didn’t back down from Baylor  
the-rim type of dunk. That was a  ing that. She’s does it in warmups,”  either. At one point in the second  
monster dunk,” Baylor coach Kim  Stewart said. “We said that if they  half, Deana Allen lost her left shoe  
Mulkey said. “I think Brittney is so  make a big 3 or she dunks, we have  while going to the basket. She hus­ 
conscious of people writing good  to get the ball in and out quickly. It  tled back and played an entire de­ 
or bad about the dunk, that she’s  didn’t affect us, I don’t think. It’s a  APfensive possession without it.  
scared to get excited sometimes  great play — most women can’t do  Baylor’s Brittney Griner scores on a layup during the second half of  
and celebrate a dunk, because she’s  that.”  Georgia Tech 76, Georgetown 64 the Lady Bears’ win over Florida on Tuesday in Bowling Green, Ohio.  
been written about in a negative  Baylor hasn’t lost since falling  CHAPEL HILL, N.C. — This Sweet  
way. I said, ‘Honey, if I could dunk  in the quarterfinals of last year’s  16 is Sugar-free.  low Jackets two days after she was  play off,” Magee said. “And No. 23  
it, I’d do backflips down the floor.’”  NCAA tournament. The Lady Bears  Sugar Rodgers and Georgetown  held to 11 points by Fresno State.  (Wallace), she did a great job hitting  
Odyssey Sims added 14 points for  will face fourth-seeded Georgia  were denied their second straight  She came to Chapel Hill averaging  shots. They just hit shots at the most  
Baylor (36-0). Azania Stewart led  Tech in the round of 16 on Saturday  berth in the regional semifinals of  nearly 19 points.  crucial times, and every time we  
Florida (20-13) with 14.  in Des Moines, Iowa.  the women’s NCAA tournament on  It got so rough that, after Rodg­ tried to fight back, throw a punch  
Candace Parker of Tennessee  Griner began this tournament  Tuesday night when Georgia Tech  ers missed seven of her eight 3-point  back, we couldn’t get it rolling.”  
dunked twice in an NCAA tourna­ quietly, playing only 22 minutes in  beat the Hoyas 76-64 in the second  attempts, coach Terri Williams- Walthour finished with 15 points  
ment game in 2006 against Army.  Baylor’s first-round rout of UC Santa  round of the Des Moines Regional.  Flournoy told her to stop shooting  and Regins added 14 for Georgia  
Griner’s dunk was her first of the  Barbara. She delighted the crowd  This certainly wasn’t how George- from beyond the arc.  Tech, which had never won multiple  
season and sixth of her career.  Tuesday with her dunking display  town’s leading scorer envisioned her  “I feel bad for ‘Sug’ because she  games in any of its previous seven  
Parker holds the career record with  in warmups, at one point throwing  season ending. She had 14 points on  wants it really, really bad, and  NCAA tournament appearances.  
seven.  down a two-handed effort and pull­ 4-of-19 shooting against the Yel­ sometimes as a shooter when the  These Yellow Jackets set school  
shot’s not falling, it’s hard to think of  records for victories both overall  
anything else,” Williams-Flournoy  and in the Atlantic Coast Confer- 
said. “At this point, she had to stop.  ence (12) and claiming its best-ever  
I don’t ever, ever think it’s anything  NCAA seed, and came to Chapel Hill  
that a defense has done to Sug. ...  hoping to make some more history.  
I always think that Sugar has to  “Ever since we came in, we  
make herself available, Sugar has to  wanted to do something special. We  
go hard off a screen.  wanted to leave our mark on this  
“Sugar Rodgers can never be  program,” said Goodlett, a senior.  
guarded if she doesn’t want to be  “We came in thinking, ‘We have to  
guarded.”  make it to the Sweet 16. We have to  
On this night, she was guarded —  take this program somewhere it’s  
by a determined Georgia Tech team  never been.’ We don’t have any ex- 
that kept changing defenses and  cuses. ... We’re not going to let this  
giving her different looks.  program drop. We wanted to el­ 
“We wanted to deny her and just  evate it, take it a step further.”  
make it tough for her to catch the  
ball,” guard Metra Walthour said.  Duke 96, Vanderbilt 80  
It worked, and it helped send the  NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Losing in  
Yellow Jackets to the regional semi- the Atlantic Coast Conference tour- 
finals for the first time.  nament seems to have lit a fire un- 
Freshman Sydney Wallace scored  der the Duke Blue Devils.  
23 points, and Sasha Goodlett added  Haley Peters’ career-high 25  
14 points and 11 rebounds for the  points led five Blue Devils in double  
Yellow Jackets (26-8), who shot 50  figures, and Duke turned in its best  
percent and never let Georgetown  shooting performance of the season  
get closer than eight in the second  Tuesday night in routing Vanderbilt  
half to win for the 15th time in 18  96-80 to advance to the Fresno Re- 
games and prolong the best season  gional semifinal.  
in school history.  The second-seeded Blue Devils  
Up next is their biggest challenge:  (26-5) trailed only once before a  
A trip to Iowa to face Baylor — the  display that included nine straight  
tournament’s top overall seed — on  made baskets in the first half. Duke  
Saturday in the regional semifinals.  advanced to its 14th regional semifi­ 
“We know we’ve never been to  nal in 15 seasons.  
the Sweet 16 before, so we want to  Tricia Liston had 23 points for  
celebrate,” Walthour said. “But this  Duke. Elizabeth Williams had 13,  
is not as far as we want to go. We’re  and Chelsea Gray and Shay Selby  
here to play, and we’re confident  each had 10.  
and we know we’re not done yet.”  Not even Memorial Gym, the  
Tia Magee added 10 points for the  Southeastern Conference’s oldest  
Hoyas (23-9), who didn’t get closer  gym with no air conditioning, gave  
than 10 in the final 12 minutes.  seventh-seeded Vanderbilt (23-10)  
Alexa Roche’s jumper pulling  any help on a night the temperature  
them to 64-54 with 6 minutes left.  reached 90 by halftime.  
Chelsea Regins followed that with  The only thing hotter was Duke’s  
a layup and Walthour added a  shooting.  
3-pointer with about 4 minutes to  Christina Foggie had 26 points for  
play to make it 69-54 — the Yellow  Vanderbilt. Jasmine Lister had 16,  
Jackets’ largest lead to that point.  Stephanie Holzer scored 12 points  
“We had the right pace going —  and grabbed 10 rebounds, and Elan  
just at the wrong times we took a  Brown 13.  

SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles split doubleheader on road against Wheaton 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s split its double­header against Wheaton on Tuesday, coming from behind to win the first game 3-2 while falling just short in the second, losing by a score of 5-4. 
“I am really pleased with how we played against Whea­ton. They are an excellent team and we should have won both,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “The pitchers threw really well and we did a great job defen­sively for the most part. [We made] just a couple of mistakes that cost us game two.” 
The first game featured a late inning rally by the Belles (10­2), who scored all three of their runs in the sixth inning. 
Down by one, freshman out­fielder Victoria Connelly drew a leadoff walk and advanced to second on a single by junior shortstop Emily Sherwood. Junior catcher Morgan Bedan doubled, driving in the Belles’ first run. Sophomore pitcher Callie Selner and senior second baseman Angela Gillis followed with RBI hits, giving the Belles a 3-1 lead. 
That proved to be all the Belles needed, as Selner fin­ished off her complete game to earn her fifth win of the season. 
“Selner pitched a great first game against aggressive hit­ters,” Sullivan said. “She also hit very well, going 3 for 6 with a double.” 
The second game however, saw a rocky start for the Belles, as Wheaton (12-2) scored five runs in the first three innings, taking a 5-0 lead. 
Saint Mary’s rallied late and scored two runs in each of the fifth and sixth innings, bring­ing the game within a run. 
Unfortunately it proved to be too little, too late for the Belles, as Wheaton was able to hold on for the win. 
Senior captain Lauren Enayati was absent for the games for the Belles due to a class conflict.  Though Sulli­van was overall happy with her teams’ performance, she felt Enayati’s presence could have changed the outcome of the second game. 
“It was tough not having Enayati,” Sullivan said. “We lost our leadoff batter and play­er with the highest batting av­erage, as well as a senior cap­tain in her, but the team really stepped up.” 
Saint Mary’s next will take on Adrian on Saturday in its MIAA opener. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles get shut-out by Indiana Wesleyan 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer  
After  falling  to  Indiana  
Wesleyan  9-0  on  Tuesday,  
Saint Mary’s will  need  to  

prove its ability to bounce back for the second time this season. Earlier this season, the Belles (6-3) suffered a 9-0 loss in their season opener to Case Western. But following that shutout loss, the Belles were able to put together a five-game win steak, show­casing their ability to move past tough defeats, some­thing Saint Mary’s will look to do again following its sec­ond shutout of the season. 
The Wildcats (15-0) were undefeated entering the match, but despite their op­ponents’ impressive record, the Belles were somewhat optimistic entering the con­test. 
“I thought it would be a closer match, but it’s hard to know the level of competition when you don’t have a lot of common opponents,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. 
After matching up with the Wildcats directly and getting a closer look at their team, Campbell said he was im­pressed. 
“They were better than 
thought today,” Campbell said. “They were a very good team.” 
The Wildcats demonstrat­ed their talent at the top of the lineup and defeated the Belles’ talented No. 1 and No. 2 singles players, sophomore Mary Catherine Faller and freshman Kayle Sexton. Ac­cording to Campbell, howev­er, what makes Indiana Wes­leyan stand out as a team is its depth. 
“They had a lot of depth throughout their lineup,” Campbell said. “They were good at all positions.” 
Still, the Belles said they took away some positives from the tough loss. Accord­ing to Campbell his squad played better than the re­sults convey. 
“I thought we performed fairly well,” Campbell said. “Everyone gave it their best. We learned from it and it was a good test for us. It was good for us to see this.” 
Campbell said his athletes were able to maintain a simi­lar sense of perspective and optimism following the loss. 
“I’m sure they’re a little bit upset, because you’re always upset with a loss,” Campbell said. “Yet, overall I think they feel it’s good to see such good competition.” 
St. Mary’s will look to use this optimism to kick off an­other streak on Saturday, when the Belles will take on both Wheaton and Judson at Hanover Park in Elgin, Ill. The Belles take on Wheaton at 1 p.m. and Judson at 5 p.m. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
Novosel 
continued from page 24 
en Bears to handle. 
“We’ve got three really good guards; they can do so many things,” McGraw said. “[Novosel] and [Diggins] really took over.” 
The Irish and the Bears were evenly matched through the first 10 minutes of play. Diggins hit a shot with 10 minutes remaining in the first half to give the Irish a narrow edge by a score of 17-15. The Irish managed to go on short 4-0 and 5-0 runs. But every time Notre Dame looked ready to pull away, the Golden Bears hit a big shot to quell the fire. 
Novosel started hot, scoring 17 points in the first half. She also knocked down nine free throws, driving aggressively and getting to the charity stripe often. For the game, Novosel made more free throws than the entire Golden Bears squad attempted. 
“My shots weren’t falling for me at first, so I started attacking the basket,” Novosel said. “I was able to get comfortable that way.” 
California freshman forward Reshanda Grey hit a layup with 53 seconds remaining in the first half to put the Golden Bears up 31­
29. Novosel answered at the other end with a jumper from the free throw line, sending the teams into the locker room all knotted up at 
31. Novosel had her way with the California defense all night. 
“Their trying to get up and pressure the ball made it a little easier for me,” Novosel said. “It was easier for me to get a step on them.” 
The Irish broke out on an early 10-2 run in the second half on a putback by graduate student for­ward Devereaux Peters, a pair of free throws and a jumper by Dig-gins, a steal and a layup by sopho­more guard Kayla McBride and a scoop shot by graduate student guard Brittany Mallory. 
“We switched defenses at half-time,” McGraw said. “When the drive came, the guards were attacking the ball a little bit more. I thought that was pretty effective.” 


“In the first half, we weren’t con­taining the ball at all and the guards were having their way to the basket,” Diggins said. “We wanted to make sure we did a better job staying in front of the ball, helping our bigs out a little bit. We were getting outworked. We had to pick up the hustle and I think we did a good job of that.” 
With 12:29 remaining in the sec­ond half, Diggins was fouled hard on a breakaway layup. An intentional foul was called and Notre Dame was awarded two free throws and the ball. On that possession, the Irish pulled ahead by 17 and never looked back. California made a few runs, but the Irish never lost control. 
“I was just so pleased with the way we came out in the second half,” Mc­Graw said. “I thought we ratcheted up the intensity with our defense.” 
On the other end, whenever the Irish offense seemed sluggish, Dig-gins was able to catalyze scoring with a drive, a steal or a quick pass. 
“When you’ve got [Novosel] attack­ing like she is and so many people paying attention to her, I’m surround­ed by good shooters, and I can throw anything to [Peters] and she’ll catch it,” Diggins said. “That opens up stuff for me. I think tonight, in particular, my teammates did a good job of find­ing me.” 
Peters had perhaps her most com­plete statline of the year, finishing with 11 points, 14 rebounds, a career-high seven blocks and a game-high five assists. 
“To be able to count on her for so many rebounds, and her assists today I thought were phenom­enal,” McGraw said. 
Peters said Notre Dame’s ex­perience helped them withstand the Golden Bears’ challenge. 
“We’re an older team, we’ve been here before,” Peters said. “I think we play a lot better when we keep our composure. We know what we have to do to execute.” 
The Irish travel to Raleigh, N.C., on Saturday for a matchup with No. 5 St. Bonaventure. 
en Bears to handle. 

“We’ve got three really good guards; they can do so many things,” McGraw said. “[Novosel] and [Dig­

BASEBALL 

Eagles no match for ND offense 
ANDREW GASTELUM 
Associate Sports Editor 
Just four days after playing in the NCAA men’s basketball tournament, Irish freshman pitcher Pat Connaughton took the mound for his collegiate debut in Notre Dame’s 11-4 win over Eastern Michigan on Tuesday. 
On a limited pitch count of 31 pitches, Connaughton im­pressed in his 1 2/3 innings pitched, topping out at 94 mph in front of his basketball teammates, Irish coach Mike Brey and Notre Dame basket­ball coaching legend Digger Phelps. All five of the fresh­man’s outs came from strike­outs, often blowing past op­posing hitters with a steady diet of fastballs and the occa­sional, deceptive curve. 
“I was really excited, and I knew coach Brey and all the basketball kids were com­ing,” Connaughton said. “I tried not to think about the loss with basketball and this kept me occupied. 
“I got the call Saturday af­ternoon from [Irish coach Mik Aoki] about what their plan was and seeing if it was ready and alright ... We have beaten a few good teams, so I am just trying to help out any way I can.” 
Aoki said Connaughton’s performance was right on par with his expectations and plans to allow the right-hander plenty of time to find his rhythm. 
“I thought Pat did well,” Aoki said. “He did as I would expect. There were some pitches that were big misses of the strike zone and then he made some quality pitches. The way I have always seen Pat is when you put him up against the wall … he has a knack of making good pitch­es. 
“31 pitches allows him to be available this weekend against Pitt and it gets his feet wet on the mound. Right now we have got to get him consistent outings so he can get his pitch count up. May­be at one point we decide he needs to be a weekend guy for us.” 
The Irish (11-7) gave Con­naughton the early lead with a two-run first inning high­lighted by back-to-back two-out RBI singles from sopho­more first baseman Trey Mancini and junior catcher Joe Hudson. The heart of the lineup for the Irish¬ — con­sisting of sophomore third baseman Eric Jagielo, Man­cini and Hudson — combined for eight hits and six RBIs to lead Notre Dame to the com­fortable victory. 
“They have given us quality at-bats all year long and to­day was no exception, ” Aoki said. “To be honest if those guys aren’t going well we as a club are kind of scuffling along.” 
Aoki pulled Connaughton — who was in line for the win — towards the end of the second with a 2-0 lead, replacing him with senior left-hander Steve Sabatino. The Irish pulled out to a 4-1 lead following three-straight doubles in the third, but the Eagles (5-13) came back to tie the game at four in the top of the fifth. Saba­tino was shaky in his 2 2/3 innings of relief, giving up four earned runs. 
But the Irish responded quickly in the bottom half of the fifth with two runs to take a 6-4 lead after a deep blast to right from Jagielo for his team-lead­ing fourth home run of the year. Jagielo finished 3-for-5 and was a triple short of the cycle. 
Meanwhile up two in the sixth, Aoki summoned senior southpaw reliever Ryan Richter to get the Irish out of a one-out bas­es-loaded jam, the Eagles’ last threat to the Irish lead.  
“It was big because we kind of lost control of the game,” Aoki said. “I don’t know if [Eastern Michi­gan] ever took control of it but it was a jump ball at that point … Ryan getting us out of that inning was a big part of us starting to pull away from them a little bit.” 
In the bottom of the sev­enth, Notre Dame exploded for a six-run outburst to put the game out of reach, assisted by two errors and a wild pitch. Freshman left fielder Conor Biggio opened the floodgates with a two-run double to deep left-center as the Irish went through 10 batters in the inning. 
Notre Dame will try to build a winning streak with a 5:35 p.m. home game today against IPFW at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
NBA 

Granger’s scoring leads Pacers past Clippers 


Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS — First, there was a layup. 
Then, there was a 30-foot 3-pointer. Then another la­yup. 
In a 2-minute span in the second quarter, Leandro Bar­bosa showed Indiana Pacers fans why the team traded for him last week. Barbosa scored 12 points in 18 minutes in his Pacers debut, and Indiana beat the Los Angeles Clippers 102-89 on Tuesday night. 
Barbosa, acquired in a trade with Toronto, relishes his role as a reserve on what he con­siders a promising team. 
“I think my teammates re­ally helped me to be out there and be comfortable,” he said. “I’m very happy to get the first win at home. I’m very excited to come in and play with the second group. It’s the energy group and they run like crazy, so it was enjoyable.” 
Even though Barbosa is in his ninth year, he was con­cerned about fitting in on a team that had been successful before he arrived. 
“I was nervous,” he said. “As soon as I got the first basket, I was OK to finish the game.” 
Reserves Barbosa, Tyler Hansbrough and George Hill led a bench that outscored the Clippers’ reserves 50-23. Hansbrough scored 17 points and Hill had 15. 
Hansbrough was glad to see Barbosa get hot right away. 
“I think Leandro is going to be a big lift for us, he’s just going to feed into the energy that I bring off the bench, and the fast break style we bring this year,” Hansbrough said. 
Hill made 6 of 7 shots and had six assists. 
“I think George Hill was definitely the game-changer tonight,” Los Angeles guard Chris Paul said. “I don’t re­member him missing. He shot lights out.” 
Hansbrough made 7 of 10 field goals, helping the re­serves make 21 of 35 shots. The bench supported Danny Granger, who led the way with 25 points. 
Granger was thrilled to see the bench perform so well. 
“They kind of came in like a pit bull tonight,” he said. “When you have a group that plays really well together and you have scorers and you have rebounders on the second unit, that’s really a luxury a lot of teams don’t have.” 
Blake Griffin had 23 points and 10 rebounds, and Paul added 16 points and eight assists for Los Angeles. The Clippers made just 9 of 20 free throws while the Pacers made 24 of 26. Griffin made 2 of 7. 
“We have to keep trying to get better,” Paul said. “The free-throw line is where you can win or lose games. We have to get better as a team.” 
It was a chippy game in which players had to be sep­arated several times but no punches were thrown. Hans­brough and Griffin were in­volved in the most intense confrontation. 
“It was nothing,” Hans­brough said. “It was a just a physical game. Some things happened, so that was that.” 
Granger had been in a scor­ing slump, managing just 20 points combined in con­secutive losses to the New York Knicks. He shot 7 for 17 against the Clippers, but add­ed eight rebounds and made all eight of his free throws. 
Indiana led 54-46 at half­time on the strength of 32 points from its bench. Hans­brough had 15 points and Barbosa added nine. 
Los Angeles got going early in the third quarter. Grif­fin’s two-handed jam off a lob from Paul brought the crowd to life and left the backboard shaking. Paul followed with a 3-pointer and a jumper that cut it to 56-55. The Clippers tied it at 62 on Nick Young’s 3-pointer. 
Hibbert had a three-point play, and Granger hit a pair of 3-pointers to give the Pacers a 71-62 lead. The Pacers held the Clippers scoreless for 4:10 during the 11-0 run. 
Indiana led 78-66 at the end of the third quarter. Granger scored 10 points in the period, and the Pacers held the Clip­pers to 8-for-22 shooting in the quarter. 
A 3-point play by Barbosa pushed Indiana’s lead to 90­72 with just under 8 minutes to play. The Clippers rallied once more, but Hill’s 3-point­er with just over 3 minutes left pushed Indiana’s lead to 98-84. 
“We just stopped making shots,” Griffin said. “A lot of shots that we normally hit did not go down, and that’s go­ing to happen. That’s why we need to rely on our defense, and it hasn’t really been there. That’s what’s going to happen until we get it fig­ured out.” 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Big comeback marks team’s time in Hawaii 
By KATIE HEIT and VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writers 
The Irish hit the beach, attended a luau and visited Pearl Harbor during their week in Hawaii, but the most memorable part of their spring break trip might be the 4-3 win over Texas Tech that took eight hours, three venues and a furious doubles comeback. 
The first surprise of the day for No. 17 Notre Dame (12-4, 1-0 Big East) came on the No. 3 doubles court. Ju­nior Chrissie McGaffigan and sophomore Jennifer Kellner fell behind 0-7 before win­ning the next eight games and eventually claiming the match with a score of 9-8 (7-4), securing the doubles point for Notre Dame. 
“I’d never seen that before,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said, referring to a doubles team coming back from a 7-0 deficit. “They needed to win 
— we lost at No. 1 doubles and won at No. 2. We think they were down six match points during that time, but they came back.” 
The No. 1 ranked doubles team in the country, se­niors Shannon Mathews and Kristy Frilling, had already lost their match 9-7, despite battling back since trail­ing 7-4 earlier in the match. But sophomores Julie Saba­cinski and Britney Sanders squeezed in a 9-8 victory before the beautiful weather turned bad. 
“Just as we finished the doubles there were some clouds that came in and as we were ready to start singles it rained,” Louderback said. “We just went and got lunch, got away from the court.” 
But when the team re­turned from lunch, the rain showed no sign of stopping and the umpire suggest they move the contest to public courts at Diamond Head, where it was not raining. 
The No. 18 Red Raiders (11­3, 1-0 Big 12) won three of the first five singles matches to finish: Texas Tech soph­omore Samantha Adams took down No. 73 Frilling (2-6, 6-0, 6-4), junior Caro­line Starck defeated No. 102 Sanders (6-2, 6-3), and freshman Kenna Kilgo beat Sabacinski (7-6, 6-0). 
No. 52 Mathews earned a point for the Irish with a 6-2, 7-5 win over No. 123 junior Elizabeth Ullathorne and McGaffigan dispatched sophomore Nikki Sanders, but the sun started to set on the unlit courts as Kellner and sophomore Rashmi Tel­tumbde entered the third set of their match, which would decide the overall contest. Kellner eventually took the win, 2-6, 7-6, 6-3 in her third facility of the day. 
“It was awesome to clinch the match. I could tell how much everyone cared and it was by far the most excit­ing tennis experience I have had here yet,” Kellner said. “The conditions were differ­ent [from South Bend] and Tech had been in Hawai’i for almost a week before we got there, so they had a little bit of an advantage.” 
Frilling agreed that the win was particularly sweet. 
“It was tough because we had to adjust to so many el­ements and always be ready to play,” Frilling said. “Jen­nifer Kellner stepped it up for us and got that final point — she was definitely the all-star of the day. It was an important win be­cause they were ranked ahead of us.” 
Mathews said that beat­ing a team with Texas Tech’s talent was crucial in improving the confidence of the team as a whole. 
“Being able to beat such a high caliber team was really exciting,” Mathews said. “It was especially im­portant heading into this weekend.” 
For the remainder of the week, the weather provided a calmer playing environ­ment for the Irish. The oc­casional mist provided a re­lief from the warm weather as the Irish rounded out their trip to Hawaii with two more victories, a 6-1 win over No. 58 Hawaii (8­7, 0-1 WAC) and a 7-0 defeat of No. 59 Wyoming (8-6). 
Although Frilling and Mathews lost two of their three doubles matches while they were in Hawaii 
— they also fell to junior Simona Synkova and soph­omore Veronica Popovici of Wyoming, 9-8 — they moved up to No. 1 in the national doubles rankings. 
“It’s exciting to be ranked No. 1, but it is just a num­ber,” Frilling said. “I think it motivates us more to keep winning all of our matches and prepare for NCAAs.” 
The Irish will head to Ann Arbor today to take on No. 20 Michigan (7-5, 1-0 Big 10), a team that has traditionally proved tough competition. Louderback said the week in Hawaii will likely help the team in their first outdoor matches on the mainland. 
“They played really well [in Hawaii], especially for our first three outdoor matches,” Louderback said. “We’re excited because we’re going to play out­doors again. It’s supposed to be 80 degrees at Michi­gan, so we’re really excited to be playing them outside. They’re a good team, but they’re very, very good in­doors.” 
Mathews and many of her teammates said they were looking forward to facing the Wolverines, who have become tough rivals for the Irish even though Notre Dame has won 22 of the teams’ 32 meetings. 
“It’s always been a big match for us,” Mathews said. “We like to always come out pumped up and so do they. It’s going to be a great battle.” 
The Irish will make the last stop on their road trip today at the Varsity Tennis Center in Ann Arbor, Mich., beginning at 4 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu and Vicky Ja­cobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
NFL 

Smith close to deal with 49ers 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Alex Smith and the San Francisco 49ers were working Tuesday night to finalize a three-year contract, a person with knowl­edge of the negotiations said. 
The person, speaking on con­dition of anonymity because no announcement had been made, said Tuesday night final details were still being worked out and it could be complete as soon as Wednesday. 
“Oh, I’m excited,” tight end Vernon Davis said in a text mes­sage. “I’m glad. Alex deserves all good things that come his way.” 
NFL Network first reported the sides had agreed on a new deal. Earlier in the day, Pey­ton Manning was formally in­troduced in Denver after the 49ers pursued the four-time NFL MVP. Coach Jim Harbaugh worked out Manning at Duke last Tuesday. 
The 27-year-old Smith had met with Miami on Sunday but ultimately decided to stay put with the storied franchise that drafted him first overall in 2005. 
Smith had a breakthrough season last year, helping San Francisco reach the NFC title game. 
“Welcome Back (hashtag) AlexSmith. Let’s get the train rolling now,” tweeted 49ers defensive lineman Ricky Jean Francois. 
Both sides made it clear af­ter the Niners’ 20-17 overtime loss to the eventual Super Bowl champion New York Giants in the NFC championship game they planned to work out a new deal. 
It just took a little while longer than expected after Manning briefly entered the picture. 
While Smith told the South Florida Sun-Sentinel on Sunday he was surprised Manning be­came a free agent, he said he un­derstood the business side of the NFL — so perhaps it won’t take long for Harbaugh and Smith to get over San Francisco’s week-long courting of Manning. 

“It’s a very strong relation­ship,” Harbaugh told reporters while leaving team headquar­ters Tuesday, noting nothing had changed in Smith being “our guy.” He declined to discuss negotiations. 
Last spring, Harbaugh hand­ed over his playbook to Smith during a brief lifting of the lock­out — a show of confidence in the QB even though he wasn’t under contract. Smith wound up re-signing for $4.9 million, then earned a $1 million bonus for making the playoffs as the 49ers ended an eight-year stretch without a postseason berth or winning record. 
“I don’t think there will be any bad blood because he went to Miami for an interview,” former 49ers running back great Roger Craig said Tuesday. “That’s part of the process, it’s the nature of the beast. He has to do what’s best for him and his family. I’m pretty sure the 49ers are going to work something out. Players love him, fans love him. I love him. 
“I think Alex wants to get this put to bed so he can focus on having a great year, an All-Pro year this year,” Craig said. 

“He doesn’t want this dark cloud over him. It’s really his time, and he understands the business. He knows it’s a good situation.” 
49ers CEO Jed York had said the team’s three-year offer still stood despite the pursuit of Manning, and it was just up to Smith to sign. 
Long booed by his home fans at Candlestick Park, Smith threw for 3,150 yards and 17 touchdowns with only five inter­ceptions last year as San Fran­cisco went 13-3 to win its first division title since 2002. That was a remarkable turnaround under first-year coach and 15­year NFL quarterback Har­baugh — the NFL coach of the year — who declared his confi­dence in Smith as a winner from Day 1 when hired away from Stanford in January 2011. 
San Francisco went 6-2 on the road and won four of those games in comeback fashion — and Smith rallied his team from behind five times in all, not to mention a 36-32 victory against the favored Saints in the NFC di­visional playoffs. Smith complet­ed a 14-yard touchdown pass to Davis with 9 seconds left to seal it after Drew Brees had put his team ahead. 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish secure season-best fifth place 
By DREW PANGRAZE 
Sports Writer 
The Irish secured a spring season-best fifth place finish over the weekend at the inaugu­ral Clover Cup tournament at the Longbow Golf Club in Mesa, Ariz. 
Freshman Ashley Armstrong led the Irish on the first day of the tournament with a career-best, five-under par 67 to beat her previous best (71) by four strokes. It was the third-lowest round in Notre Dame school his­tory and placed Armstrong in second place for the individual standings. 
Armstrong credited her per­formance to a great round of put­ting, which helped her take full advantage of the course. 
Notre Dame finished Friday’s opening round with a tally of 288, putting the team on par and in second place behind Colorado. It was just the fourth time in pro­gram history that the Irish have shot an even-par total or better in a single round — the record is a three-under 281 in the second round of the 2008-2009 Heather Farr Memorial. 

The squad’s stellar play con­tinued on Saturday with the Irish shooting an eight-over par 
296. This positioned the Irish in third place overall after 36 holes with an eight-over par total of 
584. Sophomore Kristina Nhim led the Irish on day two with her second-straight even-par round, placing her 10th in the individual standings. Armstrong finished the day fifth in the individual standings with a two-over-par 74 in her second round. 
Sunday’s final round brought chilly weather, rain and even brief periods of hail. The team completed the weekend with a final-round total of 321, giving the Irish a 54-hole mark of 905 to finish fifth in the 12-team field. 
Colorado finished first in the tournament with a 54-hole total of 855, 31 strokes better than second-place Oklahoma. Notre Dame’s Armstrong and Nhim both struggled on Sunday, firing an 83 and 80, respectively. 
“Play was difficult on Sunday because of the cold tempera­tures, rain and even brief periods of hail, but that isn’t an excuse for my poor round,” Armstrong said. “I have played in those con­ditions before and I know what to expect. Going forward, as a member of the team I need to work on finishing my last round strong.” 
Senior Becca Huffer ended up as Notre Dame’s top finisher in the tournament with a five-over par 221, giving her a tie for eighth place in the individual standings after rounds of 72, 75 and 74. 
“The team played pretty well over parts of the weekend, but as a whole we just did not finish well on Sunday,” Armstrong said. “[Huffer], however, posted three solid rounds. 
“The team and I have a week to practice and work before our next tournament and about a month before Big East.” 
Next on the schedule for the Irish is the Liz Murphey Colle­giate Classic at the University of Georgia Golf Club, beginning March 30. 
Contact Drew Pangraze at apangraz@nd.edu 

ROWING 

Irish win 10 at opening invitational 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Irish showed no signs of rust in their first spring competition, as they came home with 10 wins from the Oak Ridge Invitational at Melton Lake in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
The team recorded seven wins Saturday and regis­tered three more in Sunday’s races. With the likes of Lou­isville, Tennessee and Vir­ginia competing, the Irish came out on top against some of the strongest programs in the country. 
“The competition was defi­nitely intense this weekend,” junior Abby Meyers said. “Because this was the first round of racing of the season, we didn’t have any idea how fast the other teams were go­ing to be. Especially towards the end of the weekend in our races against Tennessee, our competition was faster, but in most cases we were able to ultimately come out on top and really show our speed and our mental toughness.” 
Meyers was on the first victorious varsity eight boat on Saturday morning, which defeated Louisville and Jack­sonville handily. She was then on Notre Dame’s last boat to win on Sunday after­noon with a six-second vic­tory over Tennessee. 
The first competition of the year always brings many un­known factors. Meyers said, however, there were most­ly positive surprises in the opening races and she was impressed to see some of the improvements in the team since the fall season. 
“Overall, I think the team had a great start to the sea­son,” Meyers said. “We raced well against some tough competition and individual boats gained a lot of valuable experience racing together. I was very pleased with how well the rowers in the varsity eight and I worked together. I think we surprised ourselves a little with just how strong we can be both mentally and physically when we are down off the start of a race. 
“It’s a great feeling to know all the hard work that the whole team put into train­ing indoors during the win­ter is producing positive re­sults so early in the season. We still have a lot of speed to tap into, and that will be the team’s focus as we move forward and prepare to face even tougher opponents.” 
Meyers said the success the team had this weekend gives Notre Dame an opportunity to ride some momentum into the upcoming races and be­yond.  
“As a team, we still have a lot of potential to tap into,” Meyers said. “We were suc­cessful this past weekend, but there is always room to improve. Each boat will use the experience they gained racing together, whether or not that experience in­volved winning their indi­vidual race, to continue to improve and prepare for another intense round of races against Ohio State, Louisville, Indiana, and Purdue this weekend.” 
Meyer said she hoped Notre Dame’s success would just be the start to a strong season. 
“Every race is an oppor­tunity to show just how fierce, aggressive and fast we are as individual boats and as a collective team,” she said. “We need to take advantage of every single opportunity we have to show the NCAA selection committee that we deserve a bid to this year’s nation­al championship regatta. I think our team has a lot of talent and strength, and I’m excited to see what we can accomplish together this season.” 
The Irish will travel to Columbus, Ohio on Satur­day to face Ohio State and then to Indianapolis, Ind., on Sunday to compete in a four-team regatta against Purdue, Indiana and Lou­isville. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
MLB 

A-Rod has three RBIs in Yankees victory 
Associated Press 

TAMPA, Fla. — Alex Ro­driguez kept rolling, Michael Pineda made a quick change and the New York Yankees beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 10-3 on Tuesday night. 
Rodriguez had two hits — raising his batting average to .333 — and three RBIs, while Pineda impressed manager Joe Girardi with his response after a tough start. 
Andrew McCutchen hit a two-run homer in the first in­ning on a slider from Pineda, who allowed two runs and three hits in three innings. 
After making a mechani­cal adjustment with pitch­ing coach Larry Rothschild, Pineda struck out all three batters he faced in the sec­ond. 
“The first inning I opened my left shoulder a little bit,” Pineda said. “I’m happy with the adjustment.” 
Pineda ended up with five strikeouts and one walk in a 72-pitch outing. 
“It’s a good thing to see a young pitcher make an ad­justment,” Girardi said. “You don’t see that from young pitchers. You have to know how to correct things when you’re struggling.” 
Rodriguez had an RBI sin­gle during a two-run third and drove in a pair with another single in a five-run fourth that put the Yankees up 7-2. A-Rod has driven in nine runs over 10 games. 
Pittsburgh left-hander Erik Bedard gave up four runs and five hits in 3 2-3 innings. Jo-Jo Reyes relieved and al­lowed three runs, three hits and two walks without re­cording an out. 
“Threw all my pitches, try­ing to get the pitch count up,” said Bedard, who made 68 pitches. “I just tried to mix it up, and you’ve got to work on everything. (I feel like) I’m in the middle of spring train­ing. When you’re not at 100 (pitches) yet, it’s hard to say.” 
Bedard split last season between Seattle and Boston, going 5-9 with a 3.62 ERA in 24 starts after missing 2010 with a shoulder injury. 
Yankees closer Mariano Ri­vera struck out one during a perfect fourth and extended his streak of not allowing an earned run in spring train­ing to 25 consecutive innings dating to 2008. 
New York shortstop Derek Jeter remained sidelined by a stiff left calf. Jeter, who hasn’t played since last Wednesday, could return on Friday. 

FENCING 

Irish stand out at Midwest Regional 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
For the second consecutive tournament the Irish took on their regional foes and for the second consecutive weekend the squad turned in a slew of top results. 
After hosting the Midwest Fencing Conference champi­onships on March 3 and 4, the Irish finished with seven top-three results at the NCAA Mid­west Regionals in Cleveland, Ohio on March 10 and 11. Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said he was satisfied with the results given his team’s youth and in­experience. 
“We did pretty well for such a young team like us, where about three-quarters of the team are starters who have never been through NCAA qualification,” Bednarski said. “They fenced without the collegiate experi­ence, so [the results] are great for them.” 
The women took to the strips on day one and a quar­tet of fencers finished in the top-three of their respective events. 
The foilists led the way, as freshman Madison Zeiss and junior Grace Hartman came in second and third, respectively. Sophomore Adriana Camacho, senior Radmila Sarkisova and sophomore Rachel Beck accom­panied them in the top half of the leaderboard with finishes in sixth, seventh and 10th. 
Freshmen Ashley Severson and Nicole Ameli continued their strong rookie campaigns by placing third and fifth, re­spectively, in the women’s epee. Between Severson, Ameli and Zeiss, Bednarski said he was pleased with how his freshmen performed. 
“We wanted to get them to the top and they did just that against experienced fencers from other competitive teams such as Ohio State and Northwestern,” Bed­narski said. “They have shown the potential to be good fencers. Of course it was not easy but they got through the struggles and had great results.” 
In addition to Zeiss, junior sa­breuse Lian Osier also claimed a second place result. After breezing through pool play with a 14-1 record, including a 5-2 win over Ohio State senior Mar­garita Tschomakova, Osier fell 5-3 in the championship bout to Tschomakova. 
The men’s squad was not to be outdone as it took the floor on day two and followed the lead of its seniors. 
The male foilists matched their female counterparts with two podium finishes of their own. Seniors Reggie Bentley and Enzo Castellani claimed second and third, re­spectively, a week after lead­ing the foilists to a gold medal at the conference champion­ships. 
Senior sabreur Keith Feld­man placed third behind two Buckeyes after going 14-2 in pool play. Redshirt junior Max Stearns and sophomore Rhys Douglas each beat Feldman 5-4 in fence-offs to win the top two spots. 
Bednarski said he was ex­pecting such top results from his seniors, but the finishes are impressive nonetheless. 
“They are our leaders,” Bed­narski said. “We expected a great showing but you never know on any given day. They showed very good form and they showed our younger fenc­ers how to perform.” 
The Irish sent four epeeists to Cleveland, and all four fin­ished consecutively in the top 
10. Sophomore Michael Ros­si took sixth, juniors James Kaull and Jack Piasio finished seventh and eighth, respec­tively, and freshman Dale Pur­dy came in ninth. 
Following the Regionals, the NCAA Fencing Committee announced the Irish qualified the maximum 12 fencers for the NCAA championships. Al­though this is the fifth straight year Notre Dame has quali­fied 12 fencers for the cham­pionships, Bednarski said this year is different since his squad is certainly not one of the favorites. 
“We are the underdog [this time around],” Bednarski said. “We are not the favorite for this competition. We are the underdog who can bite [other teams] and we will bite whenever we have a chance.” 
The NCAA championships begin with the women’s com­petition Thursday and Friday and continue with the men’s events Saturday and Sunday in Columbus, Ohio. 
Contact Mike Monaco s at jmonaco@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Reaney and Ryan lead ND at NCAAs 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
The Irish concluded their season with a strong show­ing at the NCAA Swim­ming and Diving champi­onships in Auburn, Ala., on March 15-17. Led by the performances of sophomore swimmer Kelly Ryan and freshman swimmer Emma Reaney, the Irish finished the meet in 22nd place, the best showing for a Notre Dame team since 2002. 
Competing in the NCAA championships for the first time, Ryan excelled in the 200-yard backstroke, fin­ishing the race in a time of 
1:53.67 to shatter her per­sonal record in the event by two seconds and fin­
ish  seventh  in  the  event.  
For  her  performance  in  
the  200-yard  backstroke,  
she  earned  prestigious  

All-American accolades, awarded to swimmers who finish in the top eight of the finals for an event. 
Ryan also competed in the 100-yard backstroke, fin­ishing 27th in the overall field, and in the 100-yard freestyle, finishing 44th in the event. 
Ryan attributed her suc­cess in the championships to enthusiastic support from her teammates, espe­cially her counterpart in the championships. 

“I think one of the keys to my success was definitely the support of my team­mate, Emma Reaney,” Ryan said. “We were the only two swimmers that made it, but she’s one of my best friends on the team and her sup­port really helped, since we always train together and she’s pushed me through­out the year. I also felt re­ally prepared by my coach­es and confident that my training would help me be on the same level as some of the fastest swimmers in the country.” 
Reaney turned in a stel­lar showing of her own, as the freshman wracked up three Honorable Mention All-American accolades, given to swimmers that fin­ish anywhere from ninth to 16th in an event. Reaney began her championships by finishing ninth in the 200-yard individual medley on March 15, breaking her own school record with a time of 1:55.67. 
Reaney finished 11th in the 100-yard breaststroke the following day with a personal best time of 59.81, and capped her streak of impressive performances by finishing 14th in the 200-yard breaststroke on March 17. 
Ryan said that Reaney’s top-notch showing on the national level is only a small part of her contribu­tion to the team, as she has also developed into a key leader in her first year. 
“Emma is a really big as­set to the team,” Ryan said. “She is a leader by example and by word who has really helped our team improve this year, so it’s been great to share this season with her.” 
The combined perfor­mances of Ryan and Reaney helped the Irish earn 30 points overall, allowing the team to finish 22nd in the field of 49 teams. 
Junior diver Jenny Chiang also competed in the cham­pionships for the Irish div­ing team, finishing 17th in the 1-meter dive event with a score of 289.50. Chiang missed qualifying for the 16-person finals by a nar­row margin of two points, but her performance rep­resented the highest fin­ish for an Irish diver since 2005. 
Chiang qualified for the NCAA championships after placing second in the 1-me­ter event at the NCAA Zone C Diving championships on March 9. She earned an impressive score of 598.05 points to place second in the talented field of 61 div­ers. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnett@nd.edu 
Rogers 
continued from page 24 
seconds to play to beat the Buckeyes in Arlotta Stadium. Rogers was also the hero Sun­day with a goal in the third overtime period to give Notre Dame the sudden death win over the Athletics. 
Rogers, a tricaptain, has been a catalyst for the Irish all season, tallying a team-high seven goals and adding an assist. Sophomore mid­fielder Jim Marlatt is the lead­ing scorer for the Irish with seven goals and three assists. 
On the defensive side of the field, Notre Dame has been led by senior tricaptain Kevin Randall, and the Irish have allowed only 26 goals on the season. Junior goaltender John Kemp has made 56 saves, resulting in the na­tion’s best goals allowed average (4.97) and save per­centage (.683). 
The Irish faced some early adversity when they fell in overtime at home to Penn State on Feb. 26. But since then, the Irish have battled back with a home victory over Denver and road wins over Drexel and No. 19 Hof­stra. 
The Irish face off against the Buckeyes today at 4 
p.m. in Columbus, Ohio. The game is the last noncon­ference matchup for Notre Dame before it begins its Big East schedule. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Belles stand out before departing 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary’s traveled to the Phoenix Invitational at the West­brook Golf Course in Peoria, Ariz., over the weekend. The No. 26 Belles turned in a stellar per­formance on day one but had to leave to catch their flight before completing play on the second and final day of competition. 
After the first day of competi­tion the Belles had shot a 331, good for third place going into the second round. Saint Mary’s trailed behind two top-notch op­ponents — No. 2 Washington University with a 294 and No. 7 George Fox with a 295. 

Senior captain Natalie Ma­tuszak led the Belles with a 79 on the first day, along with freshman Janice Heffernan and sophomore Paige Pollak, who both turned in rounds of 82. Senior Christine Brown added an 88 and junior Jessica Kinnick rounded out the scoring with a 90. Sophomore Alexi Brown played as an individ­ual, but tallied an impressive 84. 
The second day of the tour­nament saw Washington fall to George Fox, who fired a 299 on day two to claim the team title with a final score of 595. 
Saint Mary’s will return to ac­tion April 9-10 at the Southwest­ern Invitational in Georgetown, Texas. 


Tee Shepard, and it’s unfortu-
Diggins Kelly 
nate but he’s no longer with us, and we have to move on.” 
continued from page 24 continued from page 24 
Position changes 
including Notre Dame’s only three-

in a timely fashion, coming Several players have changed pointer of the night. 
out accurately, and then good positions for spring practice, On the season, the Irish are 
decisions being made with the Kelly said. Freshman Matthias shooting 34.9 percent from beyond 
football [is what I’m looking Farley has moved from slot re-the arc, good enough for 25th in 
for].” ceiver to safety, freshman Troy the nation but almost certainly 
Kelly said protecting the Niklas has shifted from outside well below what McGraw had envi­
football is even more of a con-linebacker to tight end and Cam sioned at the season’s start. Notre 
cern in the red zone, where McDaniel will join the secondary Dame has found other ways to 
Notre Dame often struggled as a cornerback after spending get it done, though, and ranks in 
last season. his freshman year as a running the top three nationally in over­
“We’ll be looking at good back. all field goal percentage, scor­
decisions but aggressive deci-“We felt like [Niklas] is a young ing offense and scoring margin. 
sions, as well,” he said. “I don’t man we want to get on the field, Against California, the Irish 
want them to have to tuck it and it gives us a lot more flex-offense evolved (or, some might 
and run every time because ibility with [junior tight end] Ty-say, devolved) into a high paced, 
they’re afraid to make a mis-ler Eifert,” Kelly said. “Now you hard-nosed and quick-handed 
take.” could possibly see [Eifert] mov­machine. Sharp cuts, strong 
In order to give all four can-ing to a number of different posi­finishes and disruptive defense 
didates — sophomores Tom-tions [in different offensive sets]. fueled the victory, as they have 
my Rees and Andrew Hen-“We thought initially that [Far­so many other times this sea­
drix and freshmen Gunner ley] was going to be at the safety son for the Irish. No three-point 
Kiel and Everett Golson — an position, but our numbers were shots needed. 
equal footing in trying to win so low at wide receiver last year After beginning the second 
the starting job, the staff will that we had to take a load, and half even with the Golden Bears 
simplify the playbook, Kelly we had an idea … that he was at 31 points, the Irish rode 
said. not going to play this year.” their guards through a frenzied 
“We’ve kind of taken a step 

top 25 for the sixth straight stretch of basketball. Repeat-
back and really looked at our Injury updates 

tournament, but the most edly, the Irish utilized their su­
offensive structure, and we’re Notre Dame suffered a blow 
Tide 

encouraging performance perior speed and athleticism to 
going to make it so all four at running back when freshman 

might have come from an turn the Bears over and get out 
of the guys that are here can Amir Carlisle broke his ankle in 

continued from page 24 Irish golfer whose score in transition. 
compete at a fair level, because a non-contact drill last week and 

was not counted. Sophomore The old adage in basketball is 
[Rees] has got, as you know, the will miss all of spring practice, 

with aggregate scores be-Andrew Lane, who has been that when a shooter finds her-
best knowledge base,” he said. though Kelly said he should be 

low par. The Irish finished on the fringe of Notre Dame’s self in a funk, the best course 
“But if we started the spring ready for summer conditioning 

at 18 over par, beating out lineup all year, carded an is to shoot herself out of it. The 
with page 50 of the playbook, in June. 

Minnesota and North Car-even par three-round score Irish opted to take a different 
Tommy would be ahead of ev-Kelly said freshman lineback­

olina State. of 216, good for 27th place course — one that led them 
erybody. So not to put him at er Anthony Rabasa and fresh-

Friday saw the Irish sit-individually. Competing as right down the lane and straight 
a disadvantage but to give it man offensive lineman Tate 

ting in ninth place after an individual, Lane’s score to the basket. 
an equal footing for all, we’ve Nichols have both been cleared 

18 holes, led by senior was second only to Scodro The Irish converted 10 sec-
kind of scaled it back, so the to practice after recovering from 

Max Scodro’s three-under among the Irish golfers. ond-half steals into quick and 
spring, it’s going to give all shoulder injuries. He said fresh­

69, but the team failed “We’re all pretty happy easy baskets as they opened up 
the quarterbacks, including a man linebacker Chase Hounshell 

to improve over the final for Andrew,” Platt said. “He a commanding lead that would 
midyear in [Kiel] and of course has not yet been cleared, howev­

two rounds. Saturday, the played pretty well when sustain them until the final 
[Hendrix and Golson], an op-er, he is expected to participate 

Irish carded the field’s most of us didn’t.  Coach buzzer. California’s offense was 
portunity to truly compete for in spring drills at some point. 

highest score at five over [Irish coach Jim Kubinski] effectively erased, and the Irish 
par and were particu-said he’ll definitely be in the simultaneously found them-
the position.” Sophomore running back Cam 
While there is no timetable Roberson is not 100 percent yet, 

larly hindered by poor lineup next week.” selves a ready-made offense. 
for a starter to be named, Kel-but Kelly said he will participate 

play around the greens. The Irish will return to If you were watching the 
ly said the goal is to have one in spring practice at some point 

Though Scodro finished Georgia on Friday for the game, you might have said to 
quarterback named the start-after missing all of 2011 with a 

one-under at 71, no other Linger Longer Invitational at yourself, “How is Notre Dame 
er, as opposed to a rotation, knee injury. 

Irish golfer managed to Reynold’s Plantation Great only up three?” If you looked 
once the season begins. Kelly said senior defensive 

come within two strokes of Water’s Course, a course at the statistics, you might have 
end Kapron Lewis-Moore has 

par.  Sunday brought an-the Irish played in the week said to yourself, “How is Notre 
No Tee party been fully cleared and has no 

other lackluster round as leading up to the Schenkel. Dame still in the game?” 
Kelly said he is unable elabo-restrictions, while senior center 

the Irish slipped into 12th “We’re just looking for-At halftime, the Irish were 
rate on what the reasons were Braxston Cave is progressing to 

place where they would ward to getting more rounds shooting 34.5 percent from 
for early enrollee cornerback the point where he might be able 

remain. outside,” Platt said. “We the field, including 0-of-6 from 
Tee Shepard to leave the Uni-to play in the Blue-Gold Game on 

“Obviously we were pret-haven’t played that many three. The Bears, meanwhile, 
versity due to federal privacy April 21, though the staff will be 

ty disappointed with the tournaments outside, and were converting 46.4 percent 
laws. Shepard returned home cautious with him. 

performance,” Platt said. it really showed this week-of their shots, including 4-of-8 
“It was one of those weeks end. We’ll get rounds in at three-pointers. Even after cap-
to Fresno, Calif., last week and The Irish begin spring prac­
will not return to Notre Dame. tice 8 a.m. Wednesday at LaBar 

where we didn’t play hor-the Warren this week, and turing the 11-point victory, the 
“You know me; I’d love to Practice Field. 

ribly, but we needed our we’ll be ready to go.” Irish lost the shooting battle to 
best to win, and we didn’t Cal, most notably from distance. 
talk for 45 minutes on it, I’m 
just not allowed to,” Kelly said. Contact Andrew Owens at 

have it.” Contact Conor Kelly at The one thing that they should 
“From our standpoint we love aowens2@nd.edu 

Scodro finished in the ckelly17@nd.edu have been able to hang their hat on, according to their own coach at the beginning of the season, was providing the Irish nothing but frustration and long rebounds. While this fact serves as a mild cause for concern for the top-seeded Irish moving forward, the fact that they were able to make their own offense is a source of optimism. 
Further, that created offense seems to be more reliable than one predicated on draining a large number of jump shots. Novosel successfully attacked the paint, finishing a number of contested layups and convert­ing 18 or 20 free throws. Dig-gins took over down the stretch, scoring 15 of her 21 points in the second half, many after she squeezed herself into an impos­sibly small window. When their ability to shoot the ball con­sistently failed them, the Irish turned to their athleticism, where they will almost always hold an advantage. 
As they move into the Sweet 16, the Irish would certainly like to improve on their 11.1 percent shooting from three-point range. But it is just nice to know they will not have to. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUgENIA LAST 


THE LONDON EXPRESS LEE HAggENJOS AND ALEx gRISWOLD JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARgIRION 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 



Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Wednesday, March 21, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish get a scare, but advance to Sweet 16 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Led by a 28-point, nine-rebound performance by senior guard Nata­lie Novosel and 21 points from junior guard Skylar Diggins, the top-seeded No. 4 Irish took down California by a score of 73-62 Tuesday in Purcell Pa­vilion to advance to the NCAA tour­nament’s Sweet Sixteen. 
California gave the Irish a run for their money in front of more than 6,000 fans, but Notre Dame was able to build a lead and maintain it. 
“We knew this game was going to be a challenge,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “They gave us every­thing we could handle.” 
Junior guard Layshia Clarendon led the Golden Bears with 17 points, while sophomore forward Gennifer Brandon added nine points and 12 rebounds. 
But on the defensive end, the com­bination of Diggins and Novosel was simply too much for the Gold-
see NOVOSEL/page 16 
Bearing down 


Irish survive poor shooting performance 

The same group Irish coach Muf­fet McGraw repeatedly referred to as the best 3-point shooting team to come through Notre Dame in the past 25 years failed to convert a 3-pointer for the first 27 minutes and 43 sec­onds of Tues­day’s contest. Notre Dame’s inability to score from deep  — the count was 1-of-10 — was surprising, startling and almost in­explicable. 
But it wasn’t damning. 

And it wasn’t a product of poor guard play, either. Diggins was dazzling, Novosel poured in plenty of points and Kayla Mc­Bride made a number of big shots, 
see DIGGINS/page 22 

MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish prepare for midweek game against Buckeyes 
By MATTHEW ROBISON ally have a full week to pre-don’t have the field time and to do for every other game,” in the country, and this sea-Sports Writer pare for an opponent. This the ability to get your guys Corrigan said. son is no different. 
time around, Notre Dame had out there and go full speed The Buckeyes (3-4) started “They’re a very, very good 
Coming off a thrilling tri-only one day between games, against the stuff they’re do-the season strong, going 3-0 team and a team we went ple overtime home victory which makes preparation a ing.” with victories over Detroit, down to the last seconds with over No. 8 Denver on Sunday, much more condensed exer-The majority of prepara-Mercer and Denver. Since last year,” Corrigan said. “So the No. 7 Irish hit the road cise. tion happens in the film then, the Buckeyes have we know we’ve got another today to take on Ohio State. “The biggest thing is it room reading through scout-dropped four straight, losing dogfight on our hands on The midweek showdown is a means most of your prepara-ing reports, and on the field to No. 3 Massachusetts, No. Wednesday.” change of pace for the Irish tion is mental, because you in walk-through exercises, 17 Penn State, Robert Morris Last year, senior attack­(4-1), as all of their other don’t have the time between Corrigan said. and No. 1 Virginia. man Sean Rogers netted the regular season matchups fall recovering from this game “Hopefully our guys can But the slide is not indica-game-winning goal with 33 on either Saturday or Sun-and trying to prepare for handle that kind of prepa-tive of a weak team, Corrigan day. that game,” Irish coach Kev-ration because it’s different said. The Buckeyes are con-
In that case, the Irish usu-in Corrigan said. “You just than what we’ve been able sistently one of the top teams see ROGERS/page 20 
MEN’S GOLF 

Irish struggle as low scores abound in Georgia 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
With favorable conditions leading to abnormally low scores at Forest Heights Country Club, Notre Dame had to make birdies to be competitive at the Schenkel Invitational in Statesboro, Ga. over the weekend. The Irish struggled with their short game, however, and limped to a frustrating 12th-place finish in the 14-team field. Alabama, breaking the tournament record with a 47-under-par mark, took first. 

“Everybody seemed to feel like they were hitting the ball pretty well,” soph­omore Niall Platt said. “We just weren’t making putts. That was certainly the case for me.” 
With no wind and tem­peratures in the 80s all weekend, the course sur­rendered a record num­ber of low scores. Though the Crimson Tide were the chief beneficiaries of the course conditions and ran away with a 12-stroke vic­tory, seven teams finished 
see TIDE/page 22 
FOOTBALL 

Quarterback battle at forefront 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Spring has arrived at Notre Dame, and so has another battle for the starting quarterback po­sition. 
After a turnover-plagued 8-5 season in 2011, the coaching staff will emphasize fundamen­tals on offense, Irish coach Bri­an Kelly said at Tuesday’s press conference to officially begin the spring season. 
“We threw way too many in­terceptions last year for me to be comfortable with,” Kelly said. “I’m not used to seeing that kind of turnover rate, and it certainly affected our win-loss record. The ball coming out 
see KELLY/page 22 








