The IndependenT newspaper serVIng 
Notre Dame 22, noTre dame and USC 13 saInT mary’s 


Volume 46, Issue 59 | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserVer.com 




ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 
editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
managing editor  Business manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
asst. managing editor: andrew owens 
asst. managing editor: sam stryker News editor: John cameron News editor: Kristen durbin 
Viewpoint editor: meghan Thomassen Sports editor: chris allen Scene editor: Kevin noonan Saint mary’s editor: Jillian barwick Photo editor: suzanna pratt Graphics editor: brandon Keelean multimedia editor: sarah o’connor advertising manager: monica mccormack ad Design manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems administrator: william heineman 

office manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

managing editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

assistant managing editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office Information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
los angeles — as the final sec­onds ticked off the clock saturday night, director of athletics Jack swarbrick made celebratory rounds on the notre dame sideline, embrac­ing sweaty Irish players while wear­ing a sharp grey suit. as he moved from player to player, he wore an ear-to-ear grin, and with good reason: swarbrick’s most prominent employee had never looked like a better hire. 
before the season, swarbrick said Irish coach brian Kelly was on the “coolest seat in america” after two consecutive five-loss campaigns. many fans scoffed at swarbrick’s seeming overconfidence — as much as the program had improved in two years, it also seemed to be in a state of flux. 
chuck martin, a safeties coach for two seasons, had risen the ranks to lead an inconsistent Irish offense. The quarterback position was mad­deningly unsettled, and after moving Theo riddick to receiver right after they arrived, Kelly and martin asked him to move back to running back two years later. The defensive front had lost what seemed to be its best player to south Florida, and the secondary appeared vulnerable at best. 
It didn’t help that the previous season‘s turnover-prone offense fell short of its talented potential — yet after truly ugly wins over far-inferior teams (see: at pittsburgh), Kelly was just happy his team was develop­ing a “winning instinct.” The Irish 



swarbrick and Kelly carrying out a grand vision for notre dame 
struggled mightily at times, but he seemed to forgive all after a win. 
Through it all, Kelly stuck with his quiet confidence. he brushed off con­cerns about his sideline demeanor and player management while insist­ing his program was on track. he deflected questions challenging his decisions with his usual polished ease, but there appeared to be an un­dercurrent to his answers. 
“I’ve got this,” he seemed to want to say. “Just wait and see.” 
Then, of course, came the 2012 

The Irish should be 
competing for BCS bowl 

berths for years to come. 
quarterback controversy. There were tortured baseball references, but it just looked like indecision at the most important position on the field. but the Irish kept winning, and Kelly kept forging ahead with his plan. 
Fast-forward to the end of the sea­son. The notre dame offense has found its stride, led by the two play­ers whose management had seemed most confusing. everett golson plays with aplomb more befitting a third-year starter than a sophomore who had been benched twice, while Theo riddick earns the Irish the toughest yards when they need them most. The Irish defense looks better than it ever had, shutting down explosive offenses like oklahoma and usc and reducing aaron lynch to a mere afterthought. 
and most importantly, the coach who insisted developing a nebulous “winning instinct” mattered above all has shown us what he meant: against purdue, michigan, stanford, byu, oklahoma and in legendary fashion, pittsburgh, his Irish found a way to win time and time again. Twelve times, to be exact. 
now, Kelly has led an admittedly imperfect team to a perfect regular season. his vision has come together in a way only he could have foreseen, and he’s one game away from add­ing a new banner to the notre dame stadium tunnel. 
but Kelly is no gene chizik-style one-hit wonder. perhaps the truly amazing part of this transformation is how much notre dame will improve in the next few years. golson will be­come a feared offensive weapon, the special teams have all the room in the world to improve and the incom­ing recruiting classes herald an era of unprecedented talent on the notre dame sideline. The Irish should be competing for bcs bowl berths for years to come. 
swarbrick’s were not the only eyes smiling saturday night — Irish eyes around the country were smiling too. and they had every right to be: They had all just glimpsed the reason Kelly had been hired in the first place: his vision was grander than anyone could have seen coming. 
Contact Allan Joseph at         ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 





Undefeated 
Riddick’s rushing, late goal-line stand close out 12-0 regular season with win over USC 
By aNDreW oWeNS 
assistant managing editor 
los angeles — after the fi­nal seconds of a perfect regular season vanished and the Irish celebrated at midfield, brian Kelly put his arm around his daughter and paced toward the tunnel. on his way to the jubilant locker room, he looked toward the notre dame fan contingent on the south side of the los angeles coliseum and lifted his index finger. 
no. 1 notre dame had risen to the task for the 12th time this season, and now a champion­ship berth in miami awaits the undefeated Irish following a 22­13 defeat of archrival usc (7-5). 
“It was as you would’ve ex­pected,” Kelly said of the post-game scene in the locker room. “There was a lot of singing, dancing. It was what you would expect it to be for a team that’s this close and has won so many games in that fashion. It was fun to be in there.” 
with the conquest of the Trojans, the Irish will play the winner of saturday’s sec championship game between no. 2 alabama and no. 3 georgia in atlanta. a win would secure notre dame’s first na­tional championship since 1988, with the current 24-year drought serving as the longest in program history since the Irish won their first in 1924. 
director of athletics Jack swarbrick, who hired Kelly nearly 36 months ago, had one word for the feeling as he cele­brated with players on the field. 
“phenomenal.” 
The Irish held their opponent to fewer than 20 points for the 11th time this season, and the final instance might have been the most impressive, even with usc quarterback matt barkley watching from the sidelines with a shoulder injury. outside of a 53-yard reception by soph­omore marqise lee, the notre dame secondary largely held the receiver and his talented teammate, robert woods, in check. 
“I think notre dame showed me they have phenomenal se­nior leadership,” embattled usc coach lane Kiffin said. “you can see those guys un­derstand the game and they re­ally play well together. They’re really physical and pretty old school — that’s why they have so many close scores — but they don’t screw up. you have to play really well to beat them. They don’t hand you things.” 
leading by nine points with a little more than five minutes re­maining, notre dame’s defense buckled down and held usc out of the end zone with anoth­er iconic goal-line stand. The Irish took over on downs with 
2:33 remaining after a dropped pass by fullback soma Vainuku, a symbol of how the archrivals’ fortunes have changed since last season’s 31-17 usc victory at notre dame stadium. 
“If you followed us at all this year, that was how we play,” Kelly said. “we come up big de­fensively at sometime during the game. we did that again. unbelievable goal-line stand to hold any program, any team … to get inside your two and come up with a great goal-line stand.” 
notre dame’s offense out-gained usc 439 yards to 281 and more than doubled the Trojans’ rushing output. sophomore quarterback everett golson and senior running back Theo riddick fueled the Irish offense, with the former once again showing no nerves on the road and the latter breaking count­less tackles to secure precious yardage and field position. 
golson completed 15 of 26 passes for 217 yards and added another 47 rushing yards as he improved to 10-0 in his first season as a starter. 
“he’s making better decisions with the football,” Kelly said. “I guess the difference is he’s not careless with the football. careless I can’t take. he’s going to make some bad decisions ev­ery once in a while, but he’s not careless with the football. 
“we couldn’t win the game if we were going to control the game [in a conservative] fash­ion. I felt all week that you can’t come in here hoping that usc doesn’t play well. you’ve got to come in here and take it from them. our gameplan was to let [golson] play.” 


golson engineered scor­ing drives on notre dame’s first three possessions, as the Irish jumped out to a 13-7 lead midway through the second quarter. 
as has been the case dur­ing much of the season, notre dame stalled inside the red zone, one of the points Kelly said he needs to address dur­ing the six weeks and two days leading up to the bcs national championship game on Jan. 7. 
“It means there’s things we still need to work on,” said Kelly of an offense that scored just one touchdown in six red-zone appearances. “we’re not a per­fect team. we know that. here’s what we like: we know that’s going to get better as our quar­terback matures.” 
but sophomore kicker Kyle brindza converted five of six attempted field goals, the lon­gest of which he booted from 52 yards out as the first half ex­pired, giving the Irish a 16-10 halftime lead. 
“I know [Kelly] has confidence in me and it’s a great thing to have from a coach, rather than having a coach trying to rip your head off,” brindza said. “he’s a great guy and is able to go up to everyone, even if they made a mistake and be able to talk to them about what you did wrong and what you did right and be able to instill the con­fidence that you’re going to go out there the next time and do the right thing.” 
brindza contributed with a key special teams tackle as well. lee, a heisman candidate, found a seam in the Irish kick­off coverage with the Irish up 22-13 with 5:58 remaining in the game, but it was the notre dame kicker who forced the speedster out of bounds at the Trojan 45. 
“That was one of my night­mares all week,” said brindza on being the last man between lee and the end zone. “It was a nightmare and when lee was running up, I was a deer in the headlights. It was like a night­mare coming back to me, but then I turned it off and I real­ized I had to make the tackle and I was glad I was able to help my team.” 
after the ensuing goal-line stand and the game’s con­clusion minutes later, senior linebacker manti Te’o, who re­corded his seventh interception of the season in the third quar­ter, found his coach in the tun­nel and had a simple message 




PLAYER OF THE GAME 
for him. 
“I said, ‘I love you.’ I love him,” Te’o said. “[our relation­ship] was bumpy at first, but it’s great [now]. I’m happy to be part of this and have him as our coach. he’s the best coach in college football.” 
Te’o said the Irish reached a goal with the 12-0 regular-sea­son finish, but that there’s one remaining chapter in the 2012 book yet to be written. 
“we’ve brought a lot of pride back to notre dame,” he said. “I’m grateful to be a part of it. 
“we’re the best team. we’re no. 1.” 
notre dame will have the opportunity to finish as the best team and win 13 games for the first time in program history at the bcs national championship game on Jan. 7 against either no. 2 alabama or no. 3 georgia. 
Contact andrew owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
THEO RIDDICK 
NOTRE DAME RUNNING BACK 
riddick had a career game and spurred notre dame to an unde­feated season with 179 total yards. The converted wide receiver took 20 carries and fought for each of his 146 yards on the ground. his highlight-reel spin move set up the game’s final score on a cru­cial drive in the fourth quarter. 



REPORT CARD 




QUARTERBACKS 
everett golson continued a remarkable run of play dat­ing back to the win over oklahoma. The sophomore made plays with his arm and legs, and most importantly pro­tected the ball on the road to ensure the win. 

RUNNING BACKS 
It has been a group effort at running back all season, but under the brightest lights senior Theo riddick shined even brighter as notre dame’s offensive star. riddick had 179 total yards and countless highlight-reel moves. 

RECEIVERS 
another solid, if not spectacular, performance by the receivers. robby Toma and Tyler eifert showed remark­able concentration on bobbled balls down the field. eifert  finally had a defensive back knock a pass away from him on a jump ball in the end zone. 

OFFENSIVE LINE 
It was a great effort in run blocking by the offensive line, particularly the stalwarts on the left side — Zack martin and chris watt. Theo riddick had room to run and make people miss thanks to the group’s work. 

DEFENSIVE LINE 
Though the duo of usc backs silas redd and curtis mcneal got loose a few times, the unit had a solid day. louis nix was a force in goal-line situations and Kapron lewis-moore recorded one-and-a-half sacks in his final regular-season effort. 

LINEBACKERS 
manti Te’o returned to the stat sheet in the interception column with his incredible seventh pick on the year. Te’o and fellow inside linebacker carlo calabrese had a solid game tackling the shifty usc running backs and outside linebacker prince shembo recorded half a sack. 

DEFENSIVE BACKS 
he had to interfere with the best receiver in college football — usc sophomore marqise lee — on multiple occasions, but freshman KeiVarae russell had an inter­ception and contained the star lee and robert woods. 

SPECIAL TEAMS 
Kyle brindza had a career day, making five field goals despite a miss at a crucial time. Though the punt re­turn game was again quiet, george atkinson put to­gether a big kick return in the fourth quarter. 

COACHING 
brian Kelly has completed his transformation of the notre dame program from mediocre to elite. If he can win the bcs national championship game, he will become a legend. 

OVERALL GPA: 3.60 
The Irish played in their 12th game as they had in the previous 11 
— as a team. riddick paced the offense, Te’o and russell paced the defense and brindza shined on special teams. Kelly spoke in his first two seasons of a “winning instinct” he hoped to instill. The Irish clearly listened — they are 12-0 and headed to miami. 


PLAY OF THE GAME 
WITTEK’S PASS TO VAINUKU DROPPED ON FOURTH DOWN 
after stuffing three straight runs inside the 2-yard line in a valiant effort, the Irish defense completed yet another memorable goal-line stand as the fourth-down pass in the flat from usc quarterback max wittek to fullback soma Vainuku was bobbled and dropped. 
NOTRE 
DAME 


VS.USC 
BY THE NUMBERS 
Brindza’s big day 

Irish sophomore kicker Kyle brindza had a career day saturday with five made field goals. brindza now has 23 converted field goals on the year — the highest single-season total in notre dame history. brindza passed the mark of 21 set by long-time nFl kicker John carney in 1986 with a 33-yard kick in the third quarter. brindza’s 31 at­tempts on the season are also the most in notre dame history, besting carney’s 28 in 1986. with his 52-yard field goal as time expired in the first half, brindza tied ex-teammate david ruffer for the second-longest field goal in school history. his kick was one yard short of the record of 53 yards set by dave reeve in 1976. 




The Irish have allowed only nine points in the first quarter all season. 


Golson unbeaten as starter 
Irish sophomore quarterback everett golson improved to 10–0 as a starter in saturday’s win over usc. his 10 consecutive victories to start his career are the second-most in notre dame histo­ry, trailing only bob williams’ mark of 11 set from 1949–50. golson attempted 26 passes without throwing an interception against the Trojans. he has not thrown an interception on the road since the season opener against navy in Ireland, span­ning games against michigan state, oklahoma, boston college and usc. 



only three notre dam have scored more tha touchdown against th all season (purdue, b 
The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 60 | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

A triumphant return 
Fans welcome home undefeated Irish after close victory over USC 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
news writer 
The cold weather and early hour did not stop hundreds of notre dame fans from greeting the no. 1 irish as they returned to campus from los angeles. 
notre dame, with a 22-13 win over usc on saturday night, finished the regular sea­son undefeated and punched its ticket to the bcs national championship game in miami on Jan. 7. 
in frigid 25-degree weather, fans lined the sidewalks leading into the guglielmino athletics complex as the team arrived at 6:13 a.m. sunday morning. a procession of police vehicles escorted the team from south bend regional airport back to campus. 

as the irish approached, Thanksgiving break. said. “it’s a once-in-a-lifetime support for the team.” notre dame fans broke out sophomore Jeff wilush was opportunity. it’s been 24 years wilush said his father went to into chants of “here come the one of the students on hand since the last time we were un-notre dame and believed the irish” and “let’s go irish.” The and said the decision to come defeated so you never know irish would make the national crowd was mostly south bend out early and in the cold was an when you’ll have this chance championship game again. residents, since many notre easy one. again. i’m a student so you have dame students were away for “it’s definitely worth it,” he to take advantage of it and show see reTurn PAGE 6 

donnelly honors school 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
in commemoration of the university’s 170th anniversary, alumnus rep. Joe donnelly hon­ored notre dame in a speech submitted to the congressional 

record, praising the university’s tradition of academic excellence, innovation and public service. 
in the speech, originally sub­mitted to the record on sept. 12 and released yesterday, donnelly highlighted the positive impact 
see donnelly PAGE 3 

students celebrate perfect season 
By ANNA BOARINI 
news writer 
undefeated and bound for the national title game. 
while few students can claim they expected the irish to end the regular season on such a note, they are thrilled with the outcome. 
senior and california native victoria anglin got to watch the game at the los angeles coliseum with friends. 
“growing up, i was in a notre dame family, but saw a lot of usc and ucla games,” she said. “it was actually amazing to be in the coliseum and be on the other side of the nd-usc rivalry.” 
anglin also had the opportu­nity to watch the irish beat the Trojans in los angeles during the 2010 season. 
“while i’ve been [a student at] notre dame, i’m two for two in the coliseum,” she said. 
saint mary’s senior amy Tiberi was also in the coliseum to wit­ness the win saturday. 
“i was so excited to be there in the enemy’s territory but a little anxious [because] this was the last game we needed to win be­fore the bcs bowl,” she said. 
Tiberi said she was ecstatic when the game ended. 
“it was such a surreal feeling realizing that nd is actually 12­0,” she said. “being in california to experience it was unbelievably exhilarating.”  
saint mary’s junior erin edwards wasn’t able to make it out to los angeles for the game, but it didn’t mean she was in friendly territory. 
“i watched the game with my family — my family of michigan fans,” she said. “They were rooting 
see reacTions PAGE 6 



‘A shared responsibility’ 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor 

in response to an increase in pedestrian-vehicle accidents and near misses on campus and surrounding roads, the university will fund the in­stallation of a new crosswalk system at the intersection of vaness and Tywckenham roads on the eastern edge of campus. 
The first hawK crosswalk system in st. Joseph county will be installed at the intersec­tion during the spring semester. mike seamon, associate vice president of campus safety, called the hawK system both “smart” and “dynamic.” 
“once the system is engaged or activated, it makes it clear to both pedestrians and ve­hicles what they are supposed to do,” he said. “it takes out any ambiguity.” 
currently, pedestrians must press a button to activate a flashing yellow light that warns drivers of traffic in the cross­walk. students often bypass the button or cross into the street before cars might have seen them, seamon said. 
under the hawK system, a motion detector will sense the pedestrian traffic ap­proaching the crosswalk and automatically activate a flash­ing yellow light for motorists. The light will then turn red, in­dicating drivers should stop at the intersection. a sign for pedes­trians will also change to a walk­ing figure when it is safe to cross or 

see crosswalK PAGE 7 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What was the highlight of your Thanksgiving break? 

Bright Gyamfi 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“winning over usc.” 
Abby Kostielney 
junior 
off-campus 
“notre dame’s victory.” 
Kevin Fink 
junior 
dillon hall 

“eating an entire pumpkin pie.” 


Megan Yanik 
junior 
pasquerilla east hall 
“seeing family and friends.” 
Elizabet Valcheva 
graduate student 
off-campus 
“First Thanksgiving in the united states.” 
Connor Stacy 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“booking my flight to miami.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

John cameron conor Kelly Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
dan brombach megan Finneran adam llorens matthew robison 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
laura laws maria Fernandez 
Photo Viewpoint 

“How to Topple a Laughter Yoga Zen Meditation “The Death of Aiden Project 
suzanna pratt meghan Thomassen 
Dictator” St. Liam Hall 102 Coleman-Morse Socrates” South Dining Hall Hesburgh Center 12 p.m. - 1 p.m. Center Eck Visitors Center 10 a.m. - 3 p.m. 4 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Relieve stress and win 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. Make fleece blankets 
Corrections 

Lecture by Srdja a gift card to Jamba Open to all students, Lecture from Kathrin for patients fighting 
The observer regards itself as Popovic. Juice. faculty and staff. Koslicki. cancer. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“What Does an “A Grand Tour” Film: “50/50” Riley Family Dinner Film: “Sleepwalk with 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Actuary Do? Bond Hall DeBartolo Performing Noble Family Dining Me” 
however, recognize that we will make 
127 Hayes-Healy 4:30 p.m. - 6 p.m. Arts Center Hall DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m. - 8 p.m. Lecture by Michael 6:30 p.m. - 8:10 p.m. 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Expert panel. Graves. Tickets $5-$7 SMC benefit dinner. 9:30 p.m. - 11 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 



Donnelly 
conTinued From page 1 
the university has had on the nation over the decades. 
“The university has made significant contributions to the united states of america since its founding in 1842 by rev. edward F. sorin, c.s.c.,” donnelly said. “Fortified by a deep faith in god and an un­wavering commitment to the common good, the university has impacted the nation’s his­tory, its educational accom­plishments and its outreach and ministry to the vulnerable and the poor.” 
donnelly cited a long tra­dition of supporting the country, beginning with the university’s work with the navy during world war ii. 
“as Fr. sorin sought to bridge the education gap in the expanding frontier, he be­gan a history that intertwined with and influenced the his­tory of our nation,” he said. “during world war ii, notre dame established a naval cen­ter that trained 12,000 officers in south bend, ind., an epi­sode that is commemorated yearly in a respectful football rivalry.” 
Following in the tradition of strong leadership begun by sorin, donnelly emphasized Fr. Theodore hesburgh’s role in the civil rights movement. 
“notre dame has been a leader in promoting di­versity in higher educa­tion and american culture, especially the pioneering work of Fr. Theodore hesburgh as the guiding voice of the civil rights commission that craft­ed the framework to end seg­regation with the civil rights act of 1964,” he said. 

donnelly recognized the university’s standing as one of the premier academic institu­tions in the country. 
“notre dame’s dedication to education excellence is re­flected in its highly ranked mendoza college of business and law school in addition to a well-regarded school of architecture,” he said. “its re­search programs have made great contributions to na­tional science and health over the years, ranging from the discovery of synthetic rubber by Fr. Julius nieuwland in the 1920s to the mapping of the mosquito genome in this cen­tury as a way to prevent the spread of malaria and other diseases.” 
The senator-elect refer­enced the university’s af­filiations with various service initiatives, beginning in the 1960’s. 
“an association with the peace corps goes back to the agency’s founding in 1961, when the first volunteers were trained on campus un­der the strong support of Fr. hesburgh,” he said. “its summer service learning program has provided some 4,000 undergraduate students with a scholarship to perform eight weeks of community service in the communities 
paid adverTisemenT 

of notre dame alumni clubs across the nation. The alliance for catholic education, ace, sends nearly 200 recent gradu­ates each year to teach in about 100 understaffed catholic schools across the country.” 
beyond the university’s achievements in academ­ics and research, donnelly praised notre dame’s dedica­tion to those in need. 
“The university’s mission is to cultivate in its students not only an appreciation for the great achievements of human beings, but also a love of god and a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and op­pression that burden the lives of so many,” he said. “notre dame makes our nation stron­ger and deserves our deepest appreciation.” 
in a statement to The observer, donnelly pro­claimed his sense of pride in being a product of a notre dame education. 
“i was proud to lead the indiana delegation in recog­nizing the university of notre dame’s 170th anniversary be­cause of its great impact from our community in northern indiana to countries around the world,” he said. “i am hon­ored to be a graduate of the university of notre dame, and i know the many lessons i learned while a student there will continue to help guide me in serving the great state of indiana.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
SPAIN 

students watch game overseas 

By MARISA IATI 
news writer 
Toledo, spain — while most students witnessed notre dame take down the Trojans from their homes saturday, many students abroad cheered on the irish in cities around the world and at all hours of the day. 
Junior laurel Komos is study­ing in london, england, but watched the match-up from athens, greece, beginning at 3 a.m. local time. she and her friends streamed the first half online and saw the second half from a sports bar adjacent to their hostel. 
“The only other person pres­ent was the hostel and bar manager, and he spent most of the time cleaning the floor and preparing for the continental breakfast that opened at 7 a.m,” Komos said. “at some points, he would stop and watch the game with us, and he was definitely interested in our reactions to american football.” 
when the irish won around 6 a.m. local time, the students had to avoid waking up the peo­ple sleeping next door. 
“it was hard not to cheer our brains off, but the jumping up and down, high fives and silent cheers were definitely still a fun way to celebrate,” Komos said. 
For junior caroline Thompson, lack of sleep and impending final exams posed no obstacle to watching the game online at Trinity college dublin. she and approximately 15 other students watched kick­off in a common room at 1 a.m. only five fans remained by the end of the game. 
“i specifically remember be­ing up by nine points with four seconds left in this game and telling my friends to not cel­ebrate just yet since the game is not over,” Thompson said. “when the clock hit zero, i jumped out of my seat, into the arms of my friends and imme­diately played the alma mater on my ipod.” 
Junior Jenny loconsole watched the game at her in­ternational school in Toledo, spain, beginning at 2 a.m. like Thompson, she did not let her­self celebrate until the clock ran out. 
“when the irish won, my thoughts were ‘miami, baby’ and also ‘how many non-notre dame students can i text right now to brag?’” she said. “The answer turned out to be rough­ly half of my phonebook.” 
Thompson said watching senior linebacker manti Te’o’s postgame interview was the proudest moment of the game watch. 
“To see any team with such hard-working, faith-filled and overall respectable athletes pull out a victory is inspiring to me, and it’s all the more uplifting and exhilarating to have that team be yours,” Thompson said. “in short, i just thought, ‘Thank god i go to notre dame.’” 
Thompson said the game re­minded her of a conversation she had with friends after at­tending the united states naval academy game in dublin, ireland. 
“after our win [against navy], the kids in our program joked about the possibility of the irish going undefeated the semester we are abroad,” she said, “and here we are.” 
although she knows friends will comment about her missing the football season, Thompson said huddling around a computer to watch the games in exotic locations with fellow students created life­long memories. 
“if anything, a stronger ap­preciation for this school grows within you when you are re­moved from campus,” she said. “and if i do happen to receive jabs about missing the season, i’ll be sure to remind those people that they have ireland to thank for bestowing their ‘luck of the irish’ on the first game that started this golden season.” 
Contact Marisa Iati  at miati@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




Usher travels from Canada for football games 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 
while even midwestern irish fans might come for a few home games each year, usher paul matthew journeyed 15 hours from ottawa to south bend for each and every one of notre dame’s home games this season. 
a volunteer usher since 2002, matthew recently signed on as a full-time usher. he said he has seen a positive progression on the field and in the stands in recent years. 
“The team’s come so far 
— if we don’t do it this year, the future looks very bright,” matthews said.  “i think this year i’ve noticed the crowd’s been louder more often, but the odd thing about notre dame is the stadium is always packed. other schools have successful years but then dur­ing the unsuccessful years the crowds don’t come – not so at notre dame. The smiles just got a little bit bigger this year.” 
matthew makes a signifi­cant trek to see those smiles throughout the season. after a three-hour drive to syracuse, n.y., he boards a 12-hour, overnight amtrak train ride to south bend, arriving early Friday morning. 
while he maintains a full-time job at home, working as a statistical analyst for the canadian government, matthew said his trips to notre dame do not complicate his working life. 
“From a work standpoint, it doesn’t affect work[ing for the government,]” matthews said. “i get five weeks of vacation each year, and i’m there for seven games — that’s fourteen days. i still have three weeks of vacation time, and because it’s only two days at a time i still have three work days in between.” 
matthew said his interest in american college football is not the norm for canadians. 
“To the canadians this is all a foreign concept, college foot­ball,” matthews said. “when i first started doing this it was a true culture shock, and then i realized it was a pretty cool gig.” 
despite his usual Friday-morning arrival, matthew said his responsibilities typi­cally don’t begin until early saturday. 
“we have a meeting [saturday morning] to find out what’s going on that day, how many people to expect on the sidelines, who is coming, who will help with the play­ers’ entrance: what’s happen­ing in the stadium that day,” matthews said. 
matthew is usually stationed near the north end zone by the 
“When I first started doing this it was a true culture shock, and then I realized it was a pretty cool gig.” 
Paul Matthew 
Notre Dame usher 
tunnel and helps control the crowd and facilitate the en­trance of the team, coaches, media and notable fans. 
“a lot of the work is pregame: some people who have tickets to the game get access to the field, some people just have the pregame pass that allows them to be on one side of the 
paid adverTisemenT 
tunnel until just after the irish football team enters the game, some people have field passes and are allowed on the field for the entire game in a differ­ent area,” matthews said. “you also have to separate recruits … they go on the side with the irish and get to hang there dur­ing the game.” 
while he does not have much direct communication with those on the field, matthew said he has gained a new ap­preciation for all the people working behind the scenes for the football program. 
“They have a job to do, so i’m an observer,” matthews said. “There’s some minimal dia­logue, very minor small talk … but i have developed a percep­tion of the network behind the team: the trainers, coaches, doctors, the people who tape and retape the players when they get hurt.” 
matthews said he has been awestruck by some of the peo­ple who have passed through the tunnel. 
“[basketball legend] david robinson was coming down the tunnel because his son was coming to notre dame … i made sure i was the per­son who said ‘welcome to notre dame, mr. robinson,’” matthews said. “he stopped, turned around and stepped towards me, offering me his hand to shake … i had to calm down after that; that was a per­
sonal highlight.”  
matthews  said  he  was  
thrilled  to  meet  the  
canadian  olympians  dur­ 

ing the tribute to the notre dame olympians earlier this season. 
“i knew about the women’s basketball player [natalie achonwa], but i didn’t know about the two women on our soccer team [melissa Tancredi and candace chapman],” matthews said. “They stopped and intro­duced themselves to me 
— famous canadians intro­ducing themselves to me, an unfamous canadian.” 
matthews said the unpre­dictability is one of his fa­vorite parts of the job. 
“That’s the beauty of the job: you never know who’s going to show up that day,” he said. “all i can do is to try to take it in stride and do my best … i have a job to do.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 




Saint Mary’s recognizes exceptional students 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
a number of saint mary’s finest students were honored at last night’s belles honoring belles reception, an event rec­ognizing students dedicated to pursuing a life of intellec­tual vigor, aesthetic apprecia­tion, religious sensibility and social responsibility. 
student body vice president meghan casey coordinated the reception for students nominated for the belle of the year as well as their peer nominators. 
“The belles honoring belles award strives to honor stu­dents at saint mary’s who are passionate about their educa­tion and who strive to make a difference,” casey said. “each of the women nominated to­night are examples of just this.” 
For senior silvia cuevas, nominating senior social work major adrienna perales for the award was not a hard decision. she attributed the nomination to perales’s dedi­cation to social concerns and involvement on campus as president of the social work club and a member of the class board. 
cuevas, who has known perales since coming to saint mary’s, said recognizing her 
Reactions 
conTinued From page 1 
for notre dame.” 
after the first half, edwards went over to a friend’s to watch the rest of the game. edwards is from ann arbor, mich., and watched the rest of the game at one of the frater­nity houses on the university of michigan’s campus with friends from high school. 
“i went over there [the fraternity house] and there were about 10 people there and no one wanted notre dame to win,” she said. “i was that obnoxious fan the whole time.” 
at the end of the game, edwards 
Return 
conTinued From page 1 
“ever since i was born, i was destined to go here,” wilush said. “i think he [expected notre dame to get to the championship] but i don’t think he knew when it would come so he’s just as excited as iam.” 
while the irish began the season unranked and facing one of the toughest schedules in the nation, the team is undefeated for the first time since 1988, when notre dame took the title. 
sophomore Joseph abbamonte confessed he did not expect notre dame to have a perfect season initially. 
“not at the beginning of the sea­son, no,” he said. 
friend’s achievement was im­portant to her. 
“i just feel like this says a lot about who we are as saint mary’s women and what we are here for, to just be with each other and to do things on campus and off,” cuevas said. “i feel that adrienna is a prime example of these things as well as all the other nominees 
“I just feel like 
this says a lot 
about who we are 
as Saint Mary’s 
women and what 
we are here for, to 
just be with each 
other and to do 
things on campus 
and off .” 
Silvia Cuevas 
senior 
in this room. i have no doubt in my mind that adrienna will show the world what saint mary’s women are all about.” 
perales said she was sur­prised to be recognized for her campus engagement by a peer so involved herself. 
“i was genuinely surprised when silvia nominated me for this, i did not expect it,” perales said. “i feel really blessed, especially having 
said she wanted to celebrate, but immediately focused on the next hurdle — getting tickets to the championship game.
 “as soon as they won, i pulled out my phone to buy [national championship tickets],” she said. “but they were $1,000, so i did not pull the trigger on that one.” 
whether she manages to get tickets or not, Tiberi said she will probably make it to miami to sup­port the irish. 
“i’ll go with both family and friends,” she said. “i really hope i get tickets, but i’ll probably be there either way.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
The irish will face either no. 2 alabama or no. 3 georgia in the bcs national championship game. The two teams play saturday in the sec championship game. 
The irish are 5-1 all-time against the crimson Tide but have not played alabama since 1987. notre dame lost its only meeting against the bulldogs in 1980. 
wilush said he would like to go miami for the game but fears tick­ets may be too expensive. 
“i’m going to be on a family vaca­tion in orlando during the game so i’m hoping so,” he said. “but tickets are already like $1,400 for the worst seat in the house. we’ll see what happens.” 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
a nomination coming from silvia, who is the class board president. i am really appre­ciative that she sees me in this way and i am honored to be nominated.” 
nominating fellow junior alexandra del pilar was also an easy choice to make for ju­nior christina boesler. 
“i feel that alex is the per­fect example of a belle who has embraced the community of saint mary’s and has chal­lenged herself and her fears to make a difference in the world,” boesler said. 
someone who is always smiling, del pilar looks for the good in everything and every­one, boesler said. 
“alex is one of my close friends who has been there for everything that has happened at school and has helped me overcome it,” boesler said. 
del pilar said she did not ex­pect the nomination. 
“i was extremely flattered when i heard i was nomi­nated,” del pilar said. “it just makes me happy that some­one thinks this highly of me and is willing to honor my work in this way.” 
senior maggie galvin did not have to look far for the person she believed should be nominated. 
“i nominated amy Tiberi for this award. she is a recent friend to me this year, but i al­ways knew who she was since freshman year at saint mary’s. she has been one of the most impactful friends i have had in my life,” galvin said. “amy can always put a smile on my face. she is so hardworking. “ 
Tiberi, who is an elementary education major as well as the president of dance marathon, is currently student teaching. galvin noted how Tiberi is always caring for others and putting other people first. 
senior liz Kraig, who works with Tiberi on the dance marathon committee, also nominated her co-worker and friend for the award. 
“i think amy really embod­ies what it means to be a saint mary’s belle. she is always willing to help someone out and i really admire that about her,” Kraig said. “she is al­ways planning ahead and is very organized which allows her to conquer everything she wants to do on campus and in her life.” 
other students nominated include senior ciara ward, senior heidi etzel, sopho­more megan steron, first-year carrie dubeau, senior liz Kraig, senior monica murphy and junior allison gerths. 
prior to presenting the belle of the year award, casey praised all the nominees gathered. 
“you all serve as a testament to the dedication and com­mitment that saint mary’s women have. The belle of the year always goes above and beyond the call of duty, lend­ing a hand wherever she can,” casey said. 
Tiberi was named the 2012­2013 belle of the year. 
“i was honored to be nomi­nated by two of my good friends, it means a lot,” Tiberi said. “i think you spend so much time with people that you don’t realize your actions are affecting people in that way. it means a lot for them to reach out and speak about me in such kind words.” 
as for receiving the belle of the year award, Tiberi said she felt flattered to be recog­nized for all she has done at saint mary’s and outside of the college. 
“it’s exciting. i mean peo­ple shared so many great sto­ries of amazing women and it is a little surreal to me that i was chosen,” Tiberi said. “There are so many other people standing in such great company with me. i am happy to be the inaugural belle of the year.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 




EGYPT 

Morsi refuses to compromise 

Associated Press 
cairo — egypt’s president mohammed morsi struck an uncompromising stand monday over his seizure of near absolute powers, refus­ing in a meeting with top ju­dicial authorities to rescind a package of constitutional amendments that placed his edicts above oversight by the courts. 
morsi’s supporters, mean­while, canceled a mas­sive rally planned for Tuesday to compete with a demonstration by his op­ponents, citing the need to “defuse tension” at a time when anger over the presi­dent’s moves is mounting, according to a spokesman for the president’s muslim brotherhood. 

The opposition rally was going ahead as scheduled at cairo’s Tahrir square, birth­place of the uprising that toppled hosni mubarak’s re­gime nearly two years ago. 
The meeting between morsi and members of the supreme Judiciary council 
paid adverTisemenT 

was a bid to resolve a four-day crisis that has plunged the country into a new round of turmoil, with clashes be­tween the two sides that have left one protester dead and hundreds wounded. 
morsi, according to a presidential statement, told the judges that while the constitutional declaration he announced Thursday grants him immunity from any oversight, he intended to restrict that to what it described as “sovereignty issues.” 
Crosswalk 
conTinued From page 1 
indicate with a hand signal that they should remain on the curb. 
“i think going forward if we look to say, ‘how do we best address this?’, we have to readily admit it’s a shared responsibility amongst all people and all parties,” seamon said. “we cannot expect that one of those enti­ties yields all the burden of this.” 
Tim sexton, associate vice presi­dent of state and local affairs, said the hawK system is over 95 percent effective in managing crosswalks and preventing accidents. The university will fund the installation of the system, for which sexton said he does not yet know an estimated cost. 
sexton said the project is a collab­oration between the university ad­ministration, student government and st. Joseph county. 
“when you look at all those differ­ent players that are touching this too, everyone is passionate,” sexton said. 
The hawK system will be the first of its kind in the county, but the university would plan to install two further systems in a proposed realignment of douglas road next summer. The plans for that realign­ment will be subject to vote by the county council on dec. 4, sexton said. 
“i think one of the things that this douglas road rerouting and this issue down at Twyckenham and vaness is giving us opportunity [to do is] to put in some very, very effec­tive pedestrian crossings,” he said. “it could have been a lot worse.” 
This intersection, located on the eastern edge of campus, has been a particular point of concern in recent weeks. Two students, both cross­ing Twyckenham on bikes, were in­volved in accidents within one week of each other. neither student suf­fered severe injuries. 
on nov. 1, senior ramon yip was biking across the street around 9:30 
p.m. in darkness when a bus hit him in the crosswalk. 
“it was kind of my fault because i didn’t see the bus until i was crossing the intersection already,” he said. “as soon as i saw the bus, i slammed on the brakes as hard as i could and the bus driver swerved, so that helped. … it could have been a lot worse.” 
a passing police officer stopped to help yip, and he was treated for a minor injury to his elbow at the hospital. 
less than a week later on nov. 7, a car hit senior monica o’hearn as she cycled across the same crosswalk. she also suffered only minor injuries from the crash, but her roommate, senior Karen allen, began to circu­late a student petition to install a stoplight at the intersection. 
yip signed the petition when he found a link to it on Facebook. 
“i didn’t know that multiple acci­dents have nearly happened or have happened there,” he said. “i didn’t know until i saw the petition.” 
while yip said the hawK system seems to be an improvement, he hopes to see better lighting on the road in the future as well. 
seamon cited accidents more seri­ous than the most recent incidents as sparks for the university’s concern. 
in october 2011, a female student suffered injuries from a car crash on campus near the a15 parking lot as she jogged across the road. Just over one month ago, saint mary’s sophomore Ziqi Zhang was killed in a car accident as she biked across state route 933 near the entrance of the college. while the intersection at vaness and Twyckenham will be the location of the new hawK system, seamon said pedestrian safety on an around campus continues to be a priority for the administration. 
“This is an issue that’s always been there,” seamon said. “it’s not new, but it seems like we have a new focus and resolve because there’s just a lot of incidents that are happening so we’re trying to put everyone together to say, ‘let’s strategize on how best to address this.’” 
county engineer Jessica clark said in an email interview monday this particular intersection proposed a number of challenges for pedes­trians and vehicles alike as its sur­rounding neighborhood continues to grow. 
one particular challenge at this location is sight distance, or the abil­ity for a driver or pedestrian to suf­ficiently see one another and other vehicles in order to react, both look­ing from vaness and when traveling south on Twyckenham from bulla road, she said. 
“The roadway profile elevation and curvature play a part in evaluat­ing the intersection at vaness,” clark said. 
The u.s. department of Transportation and the Federal highway administration have found the hawK system and other similar systems to be “statistically significant” in reducing crashes, clark said, and the new system was the next logical step up from the marked crosswalk and refuge is­lands currently at the intersection. 
“The pedestrian-activated flash­ing beacons and additional warning signage installed a few years back were installed to enhance safety,” she said. “with the increase in pe­destrian traffic at this location, the hawK system provides a more pro­tected environment for pedestrians to cross the road.” 
senior michael masi, director of the department of university af­fairs in student government, said students have come to him since the start of his term in may to com­plain about the intersection. student government will look to educate students and drivers about this new system in the months before its installation. 
“i brought it up to [student body president brett rocheleau and stu­dent body vice president Katie rose], and they’ve been totally on board with this idea,” he said. “we’re trying to figure out a way that we can also communicate this information to students, to be more open about the process.” 
masi echoed the administration’s call to both drivers and students to work together to improve safety on and around campus. 
“it is a shared responsibility,” he said. “students have to use what is put in place. There’s only so much we can advocate for. They’re going to put in this hawK system that is top of the line but students have to utilize it.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

surreal 

Sarah O’Connor 
multimedia editor 
los angeles — surreal. 

That is seriously the only word i can use to describe the feeling of standing on the field in the middle of our team celebrating a victory over usc. a victory that concluded an undefeated season and a victory that clinched our spot in the national championship game. 
i’ve been imagining this my entire life. i grew up in a state without any profes­sional sports teams, and coming from a notre dame family, notre dame has always been my team. i’ve watched ev­ery single game since i can remember and i’ve had to deal with all the bashing and negative comments about the ir­relevance of the notre dame program for most of my life. still, i’ve stood by this team through everything, always holding out hope for the time that notre dame reemerges. 
everything was surreal: running across the field with the players in dublin to dancing to The Four seasons in the student section following a night game victory against michigan. being on the sidelines as our defense held off stanford in an overtime goal line stand and watching as all of my fellow students were able to join in the celebrations as they rushed the field. Then the following week, after a senior day shutout, watch­ing as both oregon and Kansas state fell to put us as no. 1 in the country. 
Finally, we were only one game away from clinching our spot in the national championship game. standing on the sidelines for the entire game, my heart was pounding. i had to use all of my power to not cheer since as a photogra­pher, i’m supposed to remain an impar­tial member of the media. 
The last five minutes was the most nerve-wracking experience in my life. i just kept watching seconds fall off the clock, every second, one step closer to a national championship. in the final minutes, my heart dropped as i saw usc catch a pass that put the Trojans within the five-yard line. The moment usc dropped the pass on fourth down after nine plays within the five-yard line, i literally jumped up and started cheer­ing, getting numerous disapproving looks from fellow media photographers. i didn’t care. i’ve waited too long for this. 
i lined up on the sideline waiting for the final minute to run off the clock. as the game finally ended, i rushed the field along with the other journalists to docu­ment the celebrations and reactions of the players and coaches. i’m not going to lie, tears of happiness were shed. 
in 43 days i will be on the field as notre dame plays for the national championship. i’m not sure how that game with end, but win or lose, i don’t think i could have asked for a better way to end my senior season. 
Contact Sarah O’Connor at soconno6@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Why Africana Studies? 
Alex Coccia 
shard of glass 

coming to notre dame, i had no idea that africana studies existed. i did not know until i met dr. richard pierce, former chair of the department. he gave a talk that he gives to every group of athletes in the freshman class. in the midst of lec­tures on ncaa rules and procedures, dr. pierce spoke about what it means to be a student-athlete. but it was less a speech and more a poem, a charge, a call to ac­tion, a challenge. he told us, “don’t fear the specter” — the daunting challenges that lie ahead. some of the challenges are there, motionless, to be surpassed. some will actively resist, but progress only results in confronting the specter with the full knowledge of its reality. it is a message for everyone, and ultimately, it is the reason i am an africana studies major. 
in africana studies, an important sym­bol is the sankofa bird. sankofa literally means, “to go back and get it” and is as­sociated with the akan proverb, “it is not wrong to go back for that which you have forgotten.” The symbolic bird is portrayed as reaching back into its feathers with its beak, while thrusting its chest forward, indicating the direction of its forward mo­tion. The protrusion of the chest exposes the most vital part of the bird. it signifies that the bird is vulnerable in the present, but that the quest for truth is still neces­sary. The bird’s feathers represent that truth, a source of self-criticism and analy­sis. The talons of the bird are gripping the earth firmly, signifying that this quest is rooted in history. inferred from the sym­bol of the bird is the concept that the past influences the present, in order to move forward and think about the future. 
isn’t this ultimately the challenge that education provides? Two prominent africana studies scholars state that edu­cation “dispels ignorance, bolsters cour­age and gives insight into the important social phenomena that shape human relationships.” The sankofa bird is the embodiment of one who does not fear the challenges of a self-critical education. africana studies is a series of courses that acts as a set of practical applications for discovering and addressing one’s own socializations. it forces students to tear down preconceived notions of africa and the diaspora, providing the wisdom nec­essary to move forward in the pursuit of justice. it forces students to confront their own internal prejudices in examining african and african-american influence on multiple facets of society. rather than simply administering course material that is the expansion of a body of knowledge about the world and the way it functions, the african and african-american experi­ence as a course of study is an inherently socially and politically active experience. it is prophetic and a social corrective without being self-exculpatory. 
africana studies is inherently prophetic as a basis to better understand the world, and one’s own socializations and how they impact perspective of this world. The combination of this understanding creates an indissoluble and formidable platform to move from the way the world is to the way the world should be. 
we have to go back for what we have forgotten, whether that is a previous rela­tionship or mode of understanding. we have to be willing to see the world as it was, because our current environment is a product of that world. if we are truly going to make progress as a society, we must be agents moving forward in our pursuit of justice but always being grounded in the realities of the past and present. africana studies focuses on agency in human his­tory by creating the space for the voices of those silenced throughout the historical process and silenced by the dominant paradigms in which we are socialized, a study rewarding in and of itself. africana studies stresses respect for each individual and his or her diversity, addresses the lack of appreciation for and knowledge of other cultures within academia and the need for a social and corrective dimension within education and establishes multicultural education as a tool for one to learn to be comfortable in the midst of paradigm shifts. 
symbolically, the most important part of the sankofa bird is its vulnerability, and its pursuit for truth nonetheless. one of the most frightening moments in our lives is when the pillars of our socializations upon which we rely for our bearings and paradigms are no longer veiled in a mythi­cal past untouchable to the inquiry of the mind and crumble down until what is left is the foundation and soul of humanity. upon that foundation we can build. This moment is the most frightening, but it is also the most liberating. africana studies begins this process. africana studies in and of itself is a call to action and a chal­lenge of self-analysis. no matter how frightening, it is a task we must undertake. indeed, we must not fear the specter. 
Alex Coccia is a junior Africana and Peace Studies major and a Gender Studies minor. He appreciates classroom conversations in Black Politics in Multiracial America. He can be reached at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“champions aren’t made in gyms. champions are made from something they have deep inside them — a desire, a dream, a vision.” 


Muhammad Ali professional boxer and social activist 



Where there is life, there is hope 
Elliott Pearce 
The human interest 

like most of my viewpoint col­umns this year, i drew the inspira­tion for this one from a conversation i had. i was discussing abortion (big surprise) with someone who did not share my opinion on the subject (an­other big surprise). 
This conversation went much bet­ter than they usually do, which i attribute to the honesty and open-mindedness of my interlocutor. at one point, she made an interesting and unusual argument by supposing that the fetus is a human person, but that it would still be better for that person to be aborted than to be born into the situation that the children of parents considering abortion find themselves in. 
her argument went something like this: a child’s parent or parents consider abortion because they are not prepared to take care of the child and/or because they do not want to at that time. 
Therefore, if that child was born instead of aborted, its parents would not love it adequately, causing it lasting emotional and psychologi­cal harm. because of their difficult financial and other circumstances, they would also not be able to provide it adequate education, health care, nutrition and enrichment ac­tivities like music, art and sports. all in all, the child would grow up un­fulfilled and unhappy. Therefore, it would be better if that child had not lived in the first place. 
There are a few obvious responses to this argument. one could say that it is presumptuous and wrong to claim that people born into dif­ficult situations cannot overcome the circumstances of their birth to lead happy and successful lives. rising from rags to riches is what america is all about. i am not equating happi­ness with financial success, either. 
Those who are born poor and re­main poor can still achieve more meaningful fulfillment than they could find in money. i also believe that the same holds true for sickness. Today, when doctors identify an ir­reparable birth defect in the womb, they almost always advise the par­ents to abort. 
if they asked the parents of these children who were not aborted whether or not they consider the birth of their child a blessing and a joy, however, i bet that the parents’ answers would not be unanimous “no’s.” i myself have made the mis­take of arguing on these very pages that someone should be denied an opportunity because it would put him in too difficult of a situation. i would be easy for me to dismiss this line of reasoning as another instance of that. anyone who believes in christianity must take this argument seriously, however, because the bible does. 
in the book of Job, god’s faithful servant curses the day he was born. Job suffers so terribly that it makes all the good things he has experi­enced in life seem insignificant by comparison. he wishes god had never given him a family, land, herds or even life itself because the joy he gained from all these things only served to heighten the pain he expe­rienced when god took them away. 
god restores Job’s happiness at the end of the book, but he doesn’t always do that in real life. For every example of a person who overcomes difficult circumstances to succeed, there is another example of a person who plunges from happiness into despair like Job. should we grant the potential Jobs in society their wish by ensuring that those who are most likely to experience terrible suffering are never born? 
i don’t think so. Job’s story makes one crucial point that i have not yet discussed: anyone, perhaps especial­ly those to whom god has given the most, can fall on hard times like Job. 
we cannot predict the outcomes of people’s lives with any kind of certainty. even if we use our most sophisticated statistical methods to determine that a given person has a 99 percent chance of dying of multiple stab wounds in jail while experiencing heroin withdrawal, there is still a one percent chance that this person could live a happy life. likewise, many of those who are born with every advantage end up suffering terrible misfortunes. 
Just as we cannot predict the out­comes of other people’s lives, we can­not predict our own, either. some of us may already have struggled with difficulties like those the children of parents considering abortion face. 
even if we have avoided these chal­lenges, we have no assurance that this will continue for the rest of our lives, or that the other difficulties we face will not bring us even more suffering (and more opportunity for triumph). we cannot divide human life into “life worth living” and “life not worth living.” wherever there is life, there is hope, so if there is hope for us, there is hope for the unborn, too. 
Elliott Pearce can be reached at Elliott.A.Pearce.12@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Thanks for nd 
Thanksgiving wasn’t supposed to be that great. For the first time, i wasn’t with my family for the holiday. 
i decided distance wasn’t going to stop some traditions. i made one of the few dishes i know: banana pudding. i had the ingredients and plenty of time. The lack of kitchen utensils didn’t deter me. with makeshift items, including my room key as a can opener, i succeeded. 
i woke up the malaysian international student down the hall for his first Thanksgiving. i was going to have him watch macy’s Thanksgiving day parade. he answered the door with bed head and a groggy stare. i quickly described giant balloons and a bunch of (poorly) lip syncing singers. his stare turned into a glare. he said, “you americans,” and went back to bed. 
later, i ventured to north for the holiday buffet. it was actually pretty good. our lunch group was comprised of students from coast to coast. we discussed respective Thanksgiving traditions. 
The Tuesday preceding Thanksgiving, my seminar professor in­vited the four students staying on campus during the holiday to her home.  on Thursday, her husband picked me and my banana pud­ding up. 
The four of us listened to our professor and her husband’s first date story.  a minnesotan, virginian, illinoisan, arkansan and two mainers shared thanks, and discussed the upcoming usc game. we then watched “love actually” while eating pumpkin cookies, ice cream and banana pudding. 
after returning to campus, some guys in alumni invited me to their poker night. i lost. 
Thanksgiving wasn’t supposed to be that great. yet, i found myself surrounded by friendship and great conversation. again, notre dame proved why it was the right choice. 
what i thought was going to be a lackluster holiday ended up ex­ceeding my expectations. no, i wasn’t in the presence of my uncles discussing football or my aunts coordinating christmas plans, but i realized i’ve become a part of a larger family: The nd community. 
and ultimately, that is something to be truly thankful for. 
Kyle Witzigman 
freshman morrissey manor nov. 23 
UWIRE 

Israel negotiates for peace 
Michael Kalmowicz and Noah Peeri 
The oracle 

The conflict between israel and hamas in gaza arises from a long-stemming clash between the israeli defense Forces and the extremist hamas government that claimed control over the gaza strip in 2007 from the more moderate Fatah government. 
but the fate of the palestinian people living in gaza is unfortunately at the mercy of hamas. 
israel is attempting to give the palestinian people aid and end the horrendous treatment that hamas provides to the innocent palestinians liv­ing in gaza. 
The history of hamas is one of violence, a direct quote from article 7 of the hamas charter states. 
“The day of Judgment will not come about un­til muslims fight the Jews and kill them,” it said. “Then, the Jews will hide behind rocks and trees, and the rocks and trees will cry out, ‘o muslim, there is a Jew hiding behind me, come and kill him.’” 
This reaffirms that hamas’ mission is not to create lasting peace with the israelis, but to kill the Jews. 
The conflict that is now arising in the middle east is in response to rockets being fired from the gaza strip into the state of israel. hamas has been indiscriminately firing them for the last 12 years, paying no heed to what — or whom — they are targeting. 
hamas has been known to use human shields to cause civilian casualties, in an effort to appeal to the international media. 
The fact is, hamas has killed three israeli civil­ians and wounded 68, according to the associated press. These numbers would be much higher if the iron dome defense system did not exist in the state of israel — it is an anti-rocket defense system that is fired from israeli soil to intercept and destroy the Fajr-5 rockets that hamas has been firing into israel. 
since the beginning of the “pillar of defense,” the operation israel launched nov. 13, iron dome has intercepted more than 325 out of 700 rockets fired, heading for civilian populations in major cities such as Jerusalem and Tel aviv. The only purpose of the rockets fired into israel by hamas is to kill israeli civilians. 
israel is amassing troops on the border for a possible ground assault. a cease-fire was at­tempted when the prime minister of egypt met with hamas leaders on the situation. yet during the meeting hamas vowed to continue firing rock­ets onto israeli soil, thereby ending any hopes of a cease-fire. 
unfortunately, the palestinians casualties have been high, but more than 50 hamas terrorists and leaders have been killed. israel attempts to clear civilians from bombing sites before any operation. unfortunately, hamas keeps women and children against their will, making them vulnerable to israeli rockets — another example of the mistreat­ment by hamas to the people it supposedly repre­sents, and the reason why civilian casualties have been so high. 
at the end of the day, what israel truly wants is a lasting peace and to coexist with its neighbors without the threat of rockets hitting israel on a daily basis. israel is ready to negotiate uncondi­tional peace, but it is up to hamas to do the same. 
This article originally ran in the Nov. 26  edition of The Oracle, serving the University of South Florida. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 

here are two fun facts about the “now That’s what i call music!” series: 
1. 
it’s been around since 1983 (it was released in the u.K. primarily until 1998). The berlin wall was still standing. 

2. 
not even counting the spinoff series (which includes separate u.s. releases, since this is a u.K. original), there are 83 of them. eighty-three. That’s more albums than lady gaga and Ke$ha have songs combined. 


This series has been around forever, and its long and storied history is rich with one-hit wonders, terrible songs and easy-to-make jokes. Too much for one column, for sure. 
part 1: “now That’s what i call music!” ‘80s and ‘90s 
Cassette tapes were a thing once. Even better, vinyl. 
The 1983 original, fondly known as “now 1,” was released in vinyl and, in attempt to be ahead of the technological curve, cassette tape. it was released in the u.K. initially, and reached number one in the u.K. charts in 1983, on the back of 11 songs that reached number one on the u.K. singles chart. 
That Duran Duran was SO hot back then. 
duran duran is featured seven times in the first eight albums. phil collins, peter gabriel and genesis are featured a collective eight times on the first eight, but it wasn’t all under one banner, so they don’t get their own “Zoolander” reference. 
Send a thank you note, Aerosmith 
The eighth installment, in 1986, featured a single from up-and-coming rap group run-dmc, “walk This way.” The wildly popular single featured the rap trio of run, d.m.c. and Jam-master Jay (pour one out) rapping over one of aerosmith’s early hits of the same way. in addition to adding to the popu­larity of run-d.m.c., the single helped revitalize aerosmith’s career. For better or worse, i suppose. 
There’s a band named Bananarama? 
apparently there’s a british female pop group by the name of bananarama. Their music and name isn’t recognizable, but they made more than one appearance on “now” in the ‘80s. 
Just realizing how British these things are. 
The 15th edition, in 1985, includes gladys Knight’s James bond theme song, “license to Kill.” That sounds like an awfully british thing to do, so checking down the other artists on the list, it becomes apparent just how much of a british influence there is on these albums. They weren’t released in the u.s. until 1998. 
Let’s show England how good American music can be ¾ give ‘em Paula Abdul. 
in the first ‘90s release, the brits were treated to that cornerstone of american music tradition, paula abdul, in the form of her single, “opposites attract.” it also featured Tina Turner, but with one of her less popular tracks in “i don’t wanna lose you.” 
More like two-hit wonder, amIrightVanilla Ice? 
The 19th edition, in 1991, features the b-side of vanilla ice’s most and only popular track. The a-side, “ice, ice, baby,” was not included. instead, “now That’s what i call music 19” picked “play That Funky music.” good call. 
Not exactly a trendsetter, are you? 
by the end of 1992, “now” had featured three mc hammer songs, at least two songs popular in the early ‘70s and one song by the monty python crew. nirvana and pearl Jam, who at the time were revo­lutionizing rock music in america, are nowhere to be seen. 
Posthumous poor taste. 
The 25th edition, in 1995, featured one of Freddie mercury’s solo singles from 1985, “living on my own.” mercury died in 1991. maybe let the guy rest for a few years? 
Blur had more than one song. 
blur, most famous for “song 2” in which they yell a bunch in the chorus, has a song, “girls and boys,” featured on the 28th edition in 1994. who knew? 
Duran Duran just won’t go away. 
The band keeps popping up throughout the ‘90s, including the 31st edition in 1995 with “white lines (don’t do it).” somebody in that band’s uncle must’ve worked for the producers of the album. 
Finally, one where I recognize the songs. 
The 34th edition, in 1996, features the spice girls with “wannabe,” 2pac with “california love” and oasis with “wonderwall.” This is my favorite one so far. also, blur has even more songs. color me blown away. 
CHUMBAWUMBA 
in the last edition before they started releasing in the u.s. they start it off right ¾ “Tubthumping,” by chumbawumba is the first track. That’s what’s up. 
British Invasion of “Now Music!” isn’t quite as cool as the Beatles, but it’s okay. 
The first exclusive u.s. release is in 1998, featur­ing some classic ‘90s tracks. “Flagpole sitta,” “sex and candy” and “mmmbop” are all a part of the action. 
1999 is the peak. 
The two u.s. releases in 1999 have some of the best tracks on any of the releases to that point, in­cluding singles from smashmouth, Jay-Z, blink 182, britney spears, enrique iglesias, Fatboy slim and the backstreet boys. going out on top. i like it. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
‘NOW!’ 

PLAYLIST 

Who didn’t listen to “Now That’s What I Call Music!” CDs? Here are the first 10 Scene picks of some of the collection’s best tunes. 







“99 Red Balloons” 
Nena 

“Livin’ on a Prayer” 
Bon Jovi 

“In the Air Tonight” 
Phil Collins 

“Walk This Way” 
Run-D.M.C. 

“Bohemian Rhapsody” 
Queen 
“Creep” 
Radiohead 
“The Way” 
Fastball 

“...Baby One More Time” 
Britney Spears 

“What I Got” 
Sublime 

“Mmmbop” 
Hanson 


Listen to the playlist online at 
ndsmcobserver.com/scene 
LAURA LAWS | The Observer 

The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

freedom to slaves, concerned that an influx non-fiction tome “Team of rivals: The respectively, give the film much needed 
By KEVIN NOONAN 

scene editor of freed slaves will lead to job losses and political genius of abraham lincoln” by comic relief. lee Jones particularly gives other social destruction in the north. doris Kearns goodwin. The book is 944 one of the better “cranky old man” displays a lecture, even delivered by abraham republicans in congress are split into pages long, which probably leads to the of his career, and proves that he still has 
lincoln himself, is still a lecture. two camps: those who think the amend-feeling that there was more depth to this some fire left. 
steven spielberg’s latest drama, ment doesn’t do enough and would like story than was told on screen. The sets and visuals of the film are also “lincoln,” plays out as a quickly moving, to see enfranchisement and other rights For all its shortcomings, however, the impressive. The film is believably set in the well-acted history lecture. it’s not that it’s included, and those who believe the war film is impeccably acted. daniel day-civil war times, and seems completely or-not informative, or even an interesting sto-can be ended more peacefully by negotiat-lewis as lincoln delivers a performance ganic instead of forced or silly. ry. it’s just boring. ing with the rebels rather than passing the unlike any in recent history. it was impos-The film is well made, and day-lewis 
The film centers on abraham lincoln amendment. sible to see day-lewis on the screen under will almost certainly be a top contender for shortly after the inauguration of his second lincoln focuses his entire energy on the the makeup and lines ¾ there was simply a best actor academy award, but the story term as president in 1865, covering the final amendment, neglecting his wife and fam-lincoln. itself is less than exciting, four months of his life before his assassina-ily, leading to internal strife in the white The performance is without a doubt the tion in the Ford Theatre. house that only adds to his stress. saving grace and defining monument of Contact Kevin Noonan at 
by this point in history, the union and the The film sprints through its elements, this film, taking it from a film about lincoln knoonan2@nd.edu 
confederate states are deeply entrenched giving the audience little time to process to the definitive lincoln film. in the civil war. lincoln has already issued each individual event and leading to some The rest of the ensemble delivers strong the emancipation proclamation, and is at-confusion. at the same time, however, each performances all around. sally Field as 
“Lincoln” 
tempting to push an amendment through scene feels like it’s taken straight out of a sally Field shines as lincoln’s troubled 
Director: Steven Spielberg 
congress permanently banning slavery textbook, with more emphasis on historical and neglected wife mary Todd, and their from the united states. lincoln’s main sell-accuracy than engrossing narrative. anxiety-filled relationship gives both vul-
Studio: DreamWorks 
ing point is that once slavery is outlawed, while this is an admirable trait and a tes-nerability and humanity to the otherwise 
Starring: Daniel Day-Lewis, Sally Field 
the south will lose the will to fight and the tament to spielberg’s dedication to mak-immortal figure that is lincoln. 
and David Strathairn 
war will end shortly afterward. ing historical films with true integrity, it James spader and Tommy lee Jones, 
The president faces opposition on all does not always lead to the most exciting as political swindler william bilbo sides. The democrats in congress are storylines. and cantankerous radical republican staunchly opposed to the idea of granting The movie is based on the 2005 congressional leader Thaddeus stevens, 


as they are large and filled with a variety of meats 
By CLAIRE STEPHENS 

and vegetables. For those with early class starving for breakfast in what was once an empty and dreary little 
scene writer 

or in desperate need of a sugar rush during a study corner next to carey auditorium in the hesburgh 
break, there are at least a dozen pastry options library is now the bright, sunny addition of au 
waiting in the back — go healthy with a cranber­bon pain. Though it may seem like other cafes on 
ry or multi-berry muffin or go shameless with the campus, the choices it has to offer fills the gaps be-
chocolate croissant or a chocolate chip-packed pas-tween other eateries on campus. if you’re looking 
try. There are fruit cups and parfaits as well. for a fresh and fast meal or just a snack, au bon pain 
The lemonade and iced tea in the back are an ex-is the right place. Finals are looming over us, but 
tra bonus for those tired of soft drinks; the peach there is now the promise of a cheerful escape for 
iced tea has a southern sugar level that will jolt you food during the long hours of studying/procrasti­
out of your morning grogginess or your late night nating. without having to leave the library or brave 
nod-offs. the cold to make it over to laFortune, you can feed 
au bon pain is perfect for campus not only as a that craving for something delicious. 
different choice from the routine of the dining hall while many campus cafes and eateries offer the 
and grab-and-go, but also for its location and hours. same grab-and-go choices, au bon pain offers fresh 
now that the library is open for 24 hours on five days and unique options that are hearty enough to be a 
a week, cramming students who find themselves in small meal. The small space holds a surprising se­
the library for hours on end can eat and study with­lection of sandwiches, soups, salads and pastries. 
out leaving the building — and the choices are far The best part about au bon pain’s food? 
better than vending machine snacks. perhaps its everything is good. There’s nothing in the place 
greatest asset is that au bon pain usually doesn’t that doesn’t look fresh and there’s sure to be some-
close until 10 p.m., much later than some cafes on thing to hit the spot. For those looking to warm up, 
campus that close around dinnertime. and if you’re there’s some favorite choices from the dining hall 
looking for a place to meet up or take a break, there soups you know and love (broccoli and cheese, clam 
are booths inside and a few tables right below chowder, even macaroni and cheese) with bread-
Touchdown Jesus for warmer weather days. stick choices to go with them, from cheesy to spicy. 
along with the Taco bell/pizza hut, au bon pain For those on the run, there are colorful sandwich-
is a much-needed new food addition to campus that es in more of a european style with fresh veggies, 
will be well used and appreciated by students. fresh cheese, and as the name of the place suggests, good bread. The salads are not for the faint of heart, 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 


LAURA LAWS | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Kent State, NIU could bust BCS 

Sam Gans 
sports writer 
Three weeks ago, it looked like absolute chaos was about to reign in the bcs world. Four un­defeated teams, two spots in the championship game. 
of course, things changed quickly and controversy was averted. baylor destroyed Kansas state and oregon choked against stanford. even alabama couldn’t stop Johnny Football, though that loss proves mean­ingless now. 
so we ended up with unde­feated notre dame versus a one-loss sec champion for all the marbles with seemingly no complaints. everything is okay now, right? 
well, as far as only Jan. 7 in miami is concerned, probably. but an interesting situation is brewing far down the bcs stand­ings that could have a ripple ef­fect in multiple bcs bowls, and due to that, other bowl match-ups, as well. 
bcs rules stipulate that a non­bcs conference champion that both finishes in the top 16 of the final bcs standings and finishes ahead of any bcs conference champion automatically re­ceives a berth in a bcs game. 
currently, mac member Kent state sits at no. 17 in the bcs standings with a record of 11-1. The golden Flashes will face fellow 11-1 opponent no. 21 northern illinois in the mac championship on Friday. 
if the season ended today, neither would qualify. however, there is one more week. right now, ucla sits at no. 16. The bruins face stanford on Friday in the pac-12 championship, and if the cardinal win — which seems likely based on both stanford’s shellacking of ucla last week and the two teams’ seasons — a win by the golden Flashes will almost certainly move them into the top 16, as long as no. 18 Texas also loses to Kansas state. 
The road appears to be a little tougher for the huskies. They would also need Texas and ucla to lose, and hope their victory over the golden Flashes would be enough to vault them over no. 19 michigan and no. 20 boise state. should that happen, they would also finish in the top 16. 
of course, that’s only half the battle. as mentioned, not only does a non-bcs conference champion have to be in the top­16, it has to be ranked ahead of a bcs conference champion, as well. but it seems all but as­sured the mac champion will. The rutgers-louisville game Thursday night is the de facto big east championship game, and neither of those teams are in the current top 25 in the bcs. 
some people would be thrilled to have the little guy make a bcs game, especially one with a loss and one that doesn’t play on blue turf. it would also result in a nice payday for the mac. 
but if Kent state or northern illinois qualify for a bcs game, it would result in another non-exciting matchup. 
The national championship will be notre dame against the alabama-georgia winner. The rose will get the big Ten and pac­12 winners — likely nebraska and stanford, respectively. one of the spots in the Fiesta will go to the big 12 champion — prob­ably Kansas state — and one of the spots in the orange will go to the acc champion — probably Florida state. The sugar would then get a pick to fill one of its slots to replace the sec cham­pion who made the national championship and will almost certainly take Florida of the sec, and then the Fiesta gets the first at-large selection and will take oregon to play Kansas state. 
This leaves two spots remain­ing, one in the sugar and one in the orange, with the sugar se­lecting first. should the golden Flashes or the huskies not qual­ify for a bcs game, the choice for the sugar to play the gators seems easy: oklahoma. The orange would be forced to take the big east champion, either louisville or rutgers. 
This would unfortunately leave one mediocre game — Florida state versus rutgers or louisville in the orange — but the other four would be at worst intriguing and potentially ex­tremely exciting. 
but if the mac champion does make it, the sugar would likely be Florida against the big east champion and the orange would be Florida state versus the mac champion, two pathet­ic contests. The sooners would be out of a bcs game, a tough break for football fans. 
people may say i’m being unfair, but it is hard to be ex­cited about either Kent state or northern illinois, and not just because of their names. Kent state was the only Fbs op­ponent to lose to Kentucky all season, and by a whopping 33 points. northern illinois lost to 4-8 iowa. 
These are the teams that could quite possibly make a bcs game (either rutgers or louisville making it is also ridiculous, but that’s for a different column). 
be prepared and willing to ac­cept it now. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Teams cheer for rivals 
Associated Press 

norman, okla. — casey walker looked squarely into a television camera, clapped his hands and uttered words no oklahoma player is accustomed to saying: “let’s go Texas!” 
archrivals for decades, the no. 12 sooners (9-2, 7-1 big 12) are pulling for the 23rd-ranked longhorns to upset no. 7 Kansas state this week with their only chance to win an outright con­ference title riding on it. 
so, casey, how about flashing a hook’em horns — right side up instead of upside down this time? 
“That’s too far,” he said. 

like clockwork, bob stoops his team in position to contend for a big 12 championship just in time for december. 
if history holds, the sooners will win at Tcu (7-4, 4-4) on saturday and get the help they need from Texas to claim the conference crown outright. after all, oklahoma has won the big 12 championship in ev­ery even-numbered year since stoops has been the coach. 
is cheering for the longhorns uncomfortable? sure. but in this case, it’s whatever it takes. 
“i guess now i’m oK with it because we need them to han­dle business, so then that puts us in a better spot,” walker said. “so, that’s all right.” 
if that scenario doesn’t ma­terialize, the sooners’ bcs chances could be in jeopardy and rest in the unlikely hands of Kent state. The golden Flashes are 17th in the bcs standings, one spot away from securing an automatic bcs bid and perhaps taking away the last at-large op­portunity out there with Florida and oregon seemingly locked in. 
stoops said he hasn’t gone through all that could happen with the bcs, trying to focus in­stead on the game at hand. 
“i think that we have a chance. That’s the only thing i’ve been aware of,” receiver Justin brown said. “i don’t know anything about all of that other stuff. you guys probably know way more than me. i just know we’ve got 

FOR SALE 

Snow  plowing,  salting.  
Reasonable  rates.  
Excellent  references.  
Fully  insured.  
Call 574-309-8517 or cmbraden@ hotmail.com 


FOR RENT 
House for rent. Close to campus on Napoleon. 2BR 
1BA. Available 1/1/13. $590 month. Yard, room for storage. Call 219-629-5483. 
WANTED 
WINTER BREAK Great winterbreakwork.com 


to play Tcu.” 

That’s all that oklahoma can control at this point. with the big 12 membership falling to 10 teams, there’s no longer a championship game to decide it all. The closest to that came in september, when Kansas state won on the sooners’ home field. That would be the tiebreaker if both teams win — or lose — on saturday. 
“That’s why every game is so important now in the regu­lar season. once you get into conference, every game is im­portant. Typically to be the con­ference champion, you have to not lose a game in conference,” quarterback landry Jones said. 
“in an ideal world, we all want the championship game to have another redemption and be big 12 champions but that’s not the way it is,” he said. “we have to play the hand that we’ve been dealt and really just go after it, win this game and then see what happens in the end.” 
a year ago, the sooners had more control of their own destiny in the season finale. with a win at oklahoma state, oklahoma could have tied for first place and claimed the tiebreaker in the process. at that point, stoops was em­phasizing the big 12’s “one True champion” campaign and dismissing the thought of co-champions. 
now, he’s changed his tune and said he’d have no problem accepting a split conference championship. 
“i brought that up in our big 12 meetings but they haven’t changed anything,” stoops said. “you play the hand you have.” 
“The rules are what they are,” he added. “i don’t make them.” 
in the old divisional format, oklahoma won seven big 12 championships — in 2000, 2002, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2010 and the title in 2007. it’s a re­markable run not only for its predictability but the sustained success of never going more than a year without winning it. 
“it’s difficult and challeng­ing with all the excellent teams. i think this is 11 of the last 13 years we’ve been in the last game with championship im­plications,” stoops said. “it’s al­ways tough. it’s hard to do. This game will be equally tough to go down and give ourselves an opportunity to win.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WORK Pay 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?
 Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to as­sist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or as­sistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. 
For more information, visit ND’s web­site at: http://pregnancysupport@ nd.edu 



MLB 

Longoria, Rays reach 10-year deal 
Associated Press 
sT. peTersburg, Fla.  — evan longoria wants to be with the Tampa bay rays for his entire big league career. 
The slugging third baseman got his wish monday when they rays agreed to a $136.6 million, 10-year contract that adds six guaranteed seasons and $100 million. 
“i always wanted to be kind of a benchmark player ... the guy that you could think about or as­sociate with the organization,” longoria said. “my goal from day one was to be the first player that played their whole career here, to be the first guy that came into the organization and went out in the organization, and played all the years in between. There’s no better place for me.” 
The agreement with the three-time all-star incorporates the remainder of the 27-year-old’s existing contract, which called for him to earn $36.6 million over the next four seasons. The new deal includes a team op­tion for 2023 that could make the deal worth $144.6 million over 11 years. 
“it’s a very exciting day for us,” rays principal owner stuart sternberg said. “For evan to have the confidence in us, and i know the confidence that we have in him, to re-up so to speak for the long haul. This is just an enor­mous commitment for us.” 
longoria said a no-trade pro­vision is not included in the deal, although after 2017 he would have a right to block trades as a 10-year veteran who spent his last five years with the same team. 
Just six games into his major league career, longoria agreed in april 2008 to a $17.5 million, six-year contract that included club options potentially making the deal worth $44 million over nine seasons. 
“The significance of this is not lost on anybody,” rays executive vice president of baseball op­erations andrew Friedman said. “we’re extending that commit­ment now.” 
his new deal calls for a $5,000,180 signing bonus — the $180 is for good luck. of the signing bonus, $1,000,180 is new money payable dec. 15 and the rest is pair of $2 million pay­ments on Feb. 15 and June 14. his 2013 salary is reduced from $6 million to $2 million. 
longoria’s salaries remain $7.5 million for 2014, $11 million for 2015 and $12.1 million for 2016. The new deal adds salaries of $13 million for 2017, $13.5 million for 2018, $14.5 million for 2019, $15 million for 2020, $18.5 million for 2021 and $19.5 million for 2022. 
Tampa bay holds a $13 mil­lion option for 2023 with a $5 million buyout, and escalators could raise the option price to $18 million. 
longoria became just the seventh player with a con­tract guaranteed through 2020. milwaukee outfielder ryan braun, detroit first base­man prince Fielder, chicago cubs outfielder Jorge soler and colorado shortstop Troy Tulowitzki have deals covering the next eight years, with los angeles angels first baseman albert pujols’ contract running through 2021 and cincinnati first baseman Joey votto’s through 2023. 
Tampa bay selected longoria as the third overall pick in the 2006 amateur draft, making him the first player drafted un­der sternberg and Friedman. 
longoria played in just 74 games in 2012 because of a partially torn left hamstring. he underwent a minor surgical cleanup procedure on the ham­string nov. 20 and is expected to be ready for spring training. 
“with the time that we had now, there’s no doubt that i’d be able to recover and be at 100 per­cent or close to it by (the start of) spring training,” longoria said. 


longoria will rehab the leg during the winter and will not participate in next year’s world baseball classic. 
Tampa bay was 41-44 during longoria’s absence, and 47-27 with him in the starting lineup. 
The two-time al gold glove 


paid adverTisemenT 
winner and 2008 al rookie of the year ranks second on the rays career list with 130 home runs, third with 456 rbis and fourth with 161 doubles. longoria is one of 11 active play­ers to average at least 25 homers and 90 rbis during his first five seasons. 
longoria will donate more than $1 million during the contract to the rays baseball Foundation, the team’s chari­table foundation. 
sternberg said this deal does not rule out the possibility of signing other Tampa bay play­ers to mulityear contracts, such as al cy young award winner david price. The rays were at the bottom of the big leagues in home attendance this year. 
“one of the challenges we’ll have is figuring out how to take the next step for our organiza­tion,” sternberg said. 
Tampa bay and longoria had brief, preliminary contract talks before the season began and resumed discussions after the season ended. 
“we kind of tried to find a middle ground to where we would able to do some things to be able to afford some players to put ourselves in a position to win every year,” longoria said. “and i told them from the begin­ning that i didn’t want to be the one sucking up all the payroll so we can’t afford anybody else.” 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC BASKETBALL | oTTerbein 73, smc 56; onu 77, smc 62 
Belles struggle to win at Thanksgiving Classic 

By BRENDAN BELL 
sports writer 
saint mary’s had a challeng­ing Thanksgiving break, as the belles (2-3, 0-0 miaa) fell in both games of the saint mary’s college Thanksgiving classic at their home court. 
“This past weekend played two veteran teams,” belles coach Jennifer henley said. “despite both losses, we saw some great moments of bas­ketball from our young squad.” 
on saturday saint mary’s faced otterbein in the first game of the tournament. The belles fell behind the cardinals (3-1) early on, and by the midway point of the first half, the belles had fallen behind by nine points. saint mary’s freshman forward Krista Knapke helped keep the belles in the game, though, as she hit a pair of jumpers along with two free throws to bring the score within six points. Knapke continued to score and had a team-high 13 points in the game, but it was not enough for the belles, as the cardinals were able to pull away and gain a 14-point ad­vantage by halftime. Knapke, along with a number of other freshmen, have helped provide offense for the team this year. coach henley said the younger players have provided a spark to the team. 
“last year we graduated five seniors and knew this sea­son we would be very young,” henley said. “This year’s squad is highly energetic and very passionate about the game. They play hard each and every day and continue to get better.” 
saint mary’s had a quick turnaround from its saturday contest, as they played ohio northern on sunday after­noon, but fell again. The belles were tied with the polar bears (4-1) by the score of 13-13, be­fore ohio northern tallied 11 straight points in a four-minute period. sophomore forward ariana paul lead the belles in scoring with 16 points, followed by Knapke with 14 points and junior guard shanlynn bias with 13 . with the pair of losses, the belles fell to one game under .500, but now turn to miaa conference play against adriane. coach henley sait adrian’s experi­ence will be a big factor in the game wednesday.
 “we know adrian returns some key players from last sea­son,” henley said. “They will look to control the tempo of the game.” 
henley hopet the belles will be able to prevent scoring runs that have occurred in the past few games, and better execute on offense in order to prevent getting behind early on. 
“we need to be ready to play better transition defense and attack on offense in order to be successful,” henley said. 
saint mary’s will tip off against adrian wednesday night in adrian, mich. at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
NFL 

Carroll looks to keep Seahawks composed 
Associated Press 
renTon, wash. — seattle seahawks coach pete carroll expects to have his starting cor­nerbacks available this sunday in chicago. 
after that is anyone’s guess. 
carroll said monday he plans on richard sherman and brandon browner playing this week against the bears, despite the possibility they could be facing four-game suspensions for violating the nFl’s policy on performance-enhancing drugs. 
carroll  didn’t  say  much  
regarding  the  duo  at  his  
regularly  scheduled  media  

availability, trying not to violate league rules. but his belief is that sherman and browner will be able to play in potentially seattle’s most important game of the season. 
“as of right now, i’m planning on those guys playing,” carroll said. 
espn.com first reported sunday afternoon, following the seahawks’ 24-21 loss at miami, that browner and sherman are facing suspensions and are in the process of appealing. The team said sunday night it was aware of the report and accord­ing to the league’s collective bargaining agreement, players can continue to play until the appeal is heard and settled. 
The team is limited in what it can say regarding the possible suspensions and carroll even­tually said he wouldn’t com­ment further until there is some resolution. 
“because it’s so important we do this properly i’m not going to comment on anything about it. That’s the best way to do this be­cause these are league issues,” carroll said. “at this point i’m going to keep it there and hope you can respect that this is the way we have to do that, and we can talk about it later on.” 
in a phone interview with seattle reporters after carroll’s press conference finished, browner’s agent peter schaffer said that his client only re­ceived notice of the failed test last week. 
“brandon browner has no knowledge of how any illegal substance could have gotten into his system,” schaffer said. “he is an outstanding person and a very good football player. he takes tremendous care of his body and he is very careful with what he puts into it. we’re exploring all avenues to try and figure out how any substance out of the ordinary would be in his system.” 
schaffer added that the league typically schedules appeals within 20 days of the notice being received, depend­ing on circumstances. he did not provide specifics on when browner’s appeal would take place. 
“it’s too early to tell what we’re going to need, what wit­nesses and evidence and ex­perts are going to be required, so there is no way to even guess at this point,” he said. 
sherman, an active partici­pant in social media, posted on his Twitter account late sunday night after arriving back in the northwest, “This ... issue will be resolved soon and the truth will come out. not worried.” 
if browner and sherman are found guilty of violating the league’s policy, they would be the fourth and fifth seahawks players in the last calendar year to be violators. guard John moffitt was suspended four games late last season. reserve offensive lineman allen barbre was suspended for the first four games of this season before be­ing released by the team once his suspension was up. and just last week, rookie safety winston guy was handed a four-game suspension after taking an over-the-counter product that had a banned substance in the ingredients, according to his agent. 

none of those suspen-to hold on to the final wild-card sions could have the impact of spot in the nFc. The seahawks browner and sherman, and it (6-5) are tied with Tampa bay could not come at a much worse and minnesota, but hold the time with the seahawks trying tiebreakers. 
paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 



MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 92, chicago sTaTe 65 
Grant, Martin lead Irish to top Chicago State 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
notre dame used blister­ing shooting and timely runs to romp over chicago state 92-65 monday night in its fi­nal tune-up before a prime­time matchup with Kentucky on Thursday. 
Junior guard Jerian grant scored 22 points on 9-of­11 shooting while graduate student guard scott martin returned to the lineup with 11 points — all in the first half. grant also added a ca-reer-high 10 assists. 
“i’m just playing my game, kind of like i was last year, not putting a lot of pressure on myself, just going out there and playing like i usu­ally do,” grant said. 
notre dame (6-1) shot 61 percent and knocked down 

paid adverTisemenT 

12 3-pointers, including 10 in the first half. between the two teams, there was only one two-point basket in the first 6:59 of play and notre dame did not score inside the arc until 11:42 was left in 
“I’m just playing my game, kind of like I was last year, not putting a lot of pressure on myself, just going out there and playing like I usually do.” 
Jerian Grant 
junior guard 
the first half. 
“i thought our offensive rhythm was good tonight and that’s something we’ll need not only Thursday but also down the road,” irish coach mike brey said. “our offensive identity and flow has gotten better here in the last seven or eight days and not a moment too soon with what’s coming Thursday.” 
The cougars (1-6) went nearly four minutes in the first half without scoring a field goal, allowing the irish lead to balloon from three to 
11. The irish used separate 10-3, 12-2 and 12-3 runs to build a 51-32 halftime lead. 
“when we’re knocking down shots and running up and down the floor, coach just lets us go,” grant said. “That’s the good thing about coach, he lets us play and when we play like that, we’re hard to beat.” 
notre dame’s 51 first-half points were the most it scored in a half this season. The irish scored 49 points in the second half against monmouth on nov. 12. notre dame’s 26 assists were also a season-high. 
The irish topped their pre­vious season high for points with almost five minutes to go in the game. notre dame had six players score in dou­ble-figures for the first time this season and also had five players hit at least two 3-pointers. 
after scoring 30 points from behind the arc in the first half, the irish pound­ed the cougars inside after halftime, scoring 30 of their 42 points in the paint in the second half. 
“They weren’t really guarding us on the perim­eter and in the second half, they switched it and over ex­aggerated the perimeter so we could just drive by,” irish senior forward Jack cooley said. “so we played how the game dictated.” 
The irish turned a blowout into a rout by scoring 18 con­secutive points over nearly six minutes in the second half, highlighted by six from senior center garrick sherman. sherman finished the contest with 12 points. 
chicago state hit three of its first four shots but cooled down after that, shooting 36 percent for the game. sophomore guard clarke rosenberg led the cougars with 16 points. 
The irish will welcome 
“I thought our offensive rhythm was good tonight and that’s something we’ll need not only Thursday but also down the road.” 
Mike Brey 
Irish coach 
defending national cham­pion and no. 8 Kentucky to purcell pavilion on Thursday night for notre dame’s big­gest non-conference test of the season. Tip-off is set for 7 p.m. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 




ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 93, mercer 36; nd 76, ucla 64 
Irish reach milestone with pair of wins 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
no. 5 notre dame made the most of its Thanksgiving trip to california, as the irish beat no. 19 ucla 76-64 on Friday at pauley pavilion in los angeles. 
“it was a huge win for us,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said of the victory. “[ucla] is a really good team, a top 20 team, that just got a re­ally good road win against oklahoma and was feeling really confident heading into the game.” 
The irish (4-0) struggled out of the gate against the bruins (2-1), falling behind 10-3 early and burning a timeout four minutes into the game. notre dame re­sponded with a 15-2 run, which allowed the irish to carry a 36-29 lead into halftime. 
notre dame came out strong in the second half, going on an 8-2 run to open the lead to 44-31. ucla closed the deficit to eight after a layup by bruins se­nior forward markel walker with 13:42 left in the game, but the bruins would never come any closer, as the irish rebounded with another 8-2 burst to help seal the victory. 
although the irish held ucla to 39 percent shoot­ing, mcgraw said she was disappointed with her team’s transition defense against the bruins. 
“in the ucla game, we gave up way too many tran­sition baskets, and we didn’t do a good job of matching up in transition,” she said. “i think we can rotate a little bit better, and we can re­bound much better than we did.” 
Freshman guard Jewell loyd led the irish with 19 points, while junior guard Kayla mcbride chipped in with 18 points. Junior for­ward natalie achonwa logged her third double-double of the season, as she racked up 10 points and 10 rebounds. 
The victory over ucla came three days after the irish exploded offensively in a 93-36 rout of mercer in purcell pavilion. 
notre dame jumped out to a 12-0 lead over the bears (3-1) and never looked back, as it took a 48-12 lead at halftime. The irish shot nearly 54 percent from the field and outscored the bears 60-12 in the paint. 


“i think we have a lot of good offensive players and a lot of people that can score,” mcgraw said. “we’re very comfortable sharing the ball, and we’re a very un­selfish team. we were ex­ecuting the offense pretty well, setting good screens and using these screens a lot in transition.” 
achonwa recorded a dou­ble-double in just 18 min­utes of action, scoring a career-high 22 points and grabbing 10 rebounds. loyd contributed 19 points on 8-of-10 shooting in 19 min­utes against the bears. 
For her efforts against mercer and ucla, loyd was named big east Freshman of the week on monday, becoming the sixth notre dame rookie in the past five seasons to receive the award. 
mcgraw said loyd has be­come a major force on the boards for the irish and can contribute in multiple ways offensively. 
“[loyd] is somebody that can rebound, which is a big need we have,” mcgraw said. “she’s able to come out and give us a big person on the boards that can really compete with a lot of the athletes we’re facing. she can score in a lot of different ways. with the way the of­fense is running right now, she’s got an opportunity to go backdoor, but she can also come off ball screens.” 
notre dame also made its 100th consecutive appear­ance in the associated press poll on monday, becoming one of just six schools in the country to achieve that 
“It was a huge win for us … [UCLA] is a really good team, a top 20 team, that just got a really good road win against Oklahoma and was feeling really confident heading into the game.” 
Muffet McGraw 
Irish coach 
milestone. 
notre dame will return to the court Thursday when the irish travel to mcguirk 
arena in  mount  pleasant,  
mich.,  to  take  on  central  
michigan.  

Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


Goal 
conTinued From page 20 
Kelsey wys. 
despite notre dame’s youth this year, waldrum and his staff expected no less from the irish. 
“Just because we were young, we weren’t going to change our goals and ex­pectations,” waldrum said. “our goal was to get back to the Final Four and we fell one game short of that. From that standpoint, i’m a little disappointed for them 
— for the players — that we didn’t continue at least to get through one more game and to make it, especially as close as we were.” 
but the team’s youth makes notre dame’s ac­complishment that much more impressive. of the 22 players notre dame took to Tallahassee, only four have experience playing late in the ncaa tournament. 
“by losing last year in the first round, we have 18 play­ers who have never even played in an ncaa game or advanced one game,” waldrum said. “when you look at it from that perspec­tive, i think our team did re­ally, really well.” 
sometimes, a coach can doubt whether or not his team gave everything it had. sometimes, a crucial mistake results in a loss. in those cases, the coach has a right to be upset. but Friday, waldrum could not fault his team for its effort. 
“This is the one time — i would say — we played really, really well against Florida state and it could have gone either way,” waldrum said. “i was really, really proud of them.” 


after watching his team grow over the course of this season, waldrum is already excited about his team’s fu­ture prospects, and he is quite proud of his current team. 
“i’m more proud of this group, probably, than i’ve been of any of our teams in my 14 years at notre dame because of what they ac­complished with such a young group,” waldrum said. “They just played with so much heart and so much energ y.” 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

ND VOLLEYBALL | ohio 3, nd 2 
Irish receive at-large bid to NCAA despite loss 
lead before the irish could claw led the offensive effort for the during the tournament selection of a surprise for us as we’ve of-
By CONOR KELLY 

sports writer their way back into the match. irish, registering 16 and 13 kills show sunday. ten been matched with big Ten 
behind sophomore outside hit-respectively. Junior maggie despite a disappointing first-teams in the ncaas,” brown 
Just a day after spending ter chelsea bilger’s 18 kills, ohio brindock notched 48 assists in round defeat to south Florida in said. “They’re a very talented, Thanksgiving as a team at the frustrated notre dame in the the loss. the big east tournament, a 13-2 senior-heavy group that is quite home of irish coach debbie first two games, winning each by The defeat was the third in a conference record and a chal-experienced.” brown, the irish traveled to a score of 25-23. The irish pulled row for the irish, dating back to lenging non-conference sched-despite the loss to ohio, notre athens, ohio, for their final even with wins in the third and the team’s final conference tilt ule were enough for the irish dame hopes that the match will regular season game against fourth games and had the score against marquette. despite the to secure a spot in the 64-team help bridge the gap between the bobcats on Friday, unsure tied at 11 in the fifth, but the cold streak, brown said the con-tournament, hosted by no. 16 the regular season and the of whether their season would bobcats rolled off the last four fidence of her team in its ability Kentucky. notre dame will face postseason. be continuing after the game. points of the decisive game for to execute has not ebbed. no. 14 ohio state on Friday in “it’s really important to have Though notre dame (20-9) fell the victory. “i think it’s hard to tell whether lexington, Ky. played in this time period, with to ohio 3-2, the team received “we definitely fell short of our confidence is lacking, but i don’t “This is where we wanted to the hope and knowledge that the good news it had been await-expectation,” irish coach debbie think that it is,” brown said. “we be at the beginning of the sea-we are going to keep playing,” ing when the ncaa selection brown said. “we had a sluggish know what we’re capable of do-son,” brown said. “it’s some-brown said. “we’re not content committee awarded the irish an start and got down early when ing, and in the matches where thing we’ve failed to do the last with just making the tourna­at-large bid to the ncaa tourna-we were really playing high-error we weren’t successful i think two years, so it’s important that ment. we want to advance.” ment sunday. and not executing the way that we can identify how we played we have achieved at least this The irish will take on the 
scheduled as a tune-up with we have to. i thought we played poorly. i think we can address expectation.” buckeyes on Friday at 5 p.m. the hope and expectation of well in sets three and four, but those problems and be in a good The selection placed the irish at memorial coliseum in ncaa play, the match against it’s disappointing that we dug place to compete going forward.” in a bracket that feature the lexington, Ky. ohio proved to expose notre ourselves a hole like that.” even after the match, the irish buckeyes, no. 16 Kentucky and dame’s propensity for slow starts sophomore outside hitters still did not know their ncaa no. 1 penn state. Contact Conor Kelly at as the bobcats raced out to a 2-0 Jeni houser and Toni alugbue fate until it was announced “ohio state was not too much ckelly17@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
The Irish squad celebrates during a match against Cincinnati on Nov. 9. Notre Dame won 3-2 but lost its most recent match 3-2 to Ohio on Friday. 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Lind 
conTinued From page 20 
middle part of that period which caused the whole thing to happen. Just too much emotion. we’re going to have to learn how to deal with that because that’ll cost us when in matters most.” 
some of that emotion may have stemmed from a frustrat­ing 2-1 loss the night before that saw saunders turn away 35 notre dame shots and an official prematurely blow a play dead in the crease just before lee poked the puck over the goal line in the game’s final minute. both lee and Jackson expressed their dis­approval to the officials, but to no available 
The irish outshot north dakota 36-17 in Friday’s con­test but were unable to crack saunders for most of the night. north dakota opened up a 2-0 in the second period lead that the irish were never able to over­come, despite a power play tally by lee off a feed from freshman forward mario lucia. The irish poured 22 shots on saunders in the second and third periods, but the junior netminder turned aside all but one. 
speaking saturday of Friday’s game, Jackson noted that tough calls and hot goaltenders were just some of the things a resilient team must face. 
“That’s a real downer the way we didn’t win that game or tie that game last night,” Jackson said. “everyone goes through those games where you have bad breaks. you have to have the ability to respond to it which our guys did tonight.” 
The irish are now 5-4 in november as they look ahead to a home series against lake superior state this weekend. coming out of series against top teams in michigan, western michigan and boston college, Jackson expressed satisfaction in his team’s play. 
“we got through it over .500 which is really important,” Jackson said. “it helps us confi­dence-wise and that’s why we play the tough games.” 
notre dame will face lake superior state at 7:35 p.m. on Friday at the compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 


Richard 
conTinued From page 20 
senior goalkeeper luis soffner. however, just 56 seconds later, the hoosiers tied the game when Kotlov finished a cross inside the 6-yard box from junior midfield­er a.J. corrado. 
“That’s disappointing,” clark said. “The next five minutes is a very important time [to hold the lead after scoring a goal] and we didn’t do that so that was disap­pointing. i think if we had held it, then you frustrate them and then you get into the game, but that was the way it came today.” 
The match was the second meeting between the two squads this season. both were decided by one goal, as the irish defeated the hoosiers 1-0 in bloomington, ind., on sept. 26. 
The hoosiers dominated most of the first half sunday, recording eight shots to notre dame’s two in the first 45 minutes. but the second half was more even, with indiana holding a 9-8 advantage. 
“i think any time notre dame plays indiana it’s always going to be a great game, and it was a great game,” clark said. “it ebbed and flowed. we had periods where we played very well; they had periods where they played very well. i thought they brought a lot of intensity. They opened the game well and maybe had the better of the early stages of the game, certainly the first half. but i thought we defended su­perbly in that time. 
“i don’t think we gave many chances and i thought as the game wore on, we came into the game, found a bit of space and maybe could have got a little bit more out of it. but it was a great game, somebody’s always going to be heartbroken and i’m afraid in this case, it was us.” 
The irish were missing two starting defenders in sunday’s match with junior andrew o’malley out to injury and ju­nior luke mishu suspended af­ter receiving a red card in notre dame’s 3-0 second round win over michigan state. miller and o’leary — usually a midfielder 
— started in their place. in ad­dition, sophomore midfielder brendan lesch started his first game of the season. 
“i thought danny came in — danny’s usually a wide midfield player — we’re obviously start­ing to hurt a little bit in the back line, and danny did well,” clark said. “it’s a little bit strange; it’s not his usual position, but he did well. and lesch opened up some space. i thought brendan played very well. he’s a very dynamic player. and he was a boy that actually had broken his ankle in the summer time, so he’s really just getting back to full fitness.” 
despite a disappointing end to the season, the team earned the no. 1 seed in the ncaa championship for the first time in program history and won the big east title for the first time since 2003 and third time overall. 
“it’s a great tribute to this group of young men that they had a tremendous season and as i told them in [the locker room], they’ve got nothing to hang their heads and they should hold their heads high,” clark said. “but it’s also set a standard and now for those that follow, we’ve got to go further. The ncaa [tournament] is the ultimate and that’s where we’ve fallen short in recent years. 
so we’re very disappointed but also very proud of what we’ve ac­complished this year. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUREXPECTATIONS |lenny rago & paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: peter Facinelli, 39; garcelle beauvais, 46; Tina Turner, 73; rich little, 74. 
Happy Birthday: rely on your resourcefulness. Take a practical approach to what you have to offer and how you can get the most for your services. past partnerships will play a role in your life and add something unusual to your future prospects. don’t fear being a little different. it’s your unique and fearless quality that draws at­tention. your numbers are 6, 11, 18, 21, 26, 31, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): a partnership offering unusual rewards is apparent. Take care of paperwork that may create a problem if left unattended. a passion­ate encounter will inspire you to resurrect an old project. don’t make an impulsive professional decision. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take advantage of an opportunity to travel for business or to set up a meeting that will allow you to discuss future plans. partnerships will be sensitive. it’s worthwhile to nurture and protect important connections that can influence life. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t be fooled by what your peers say or do. do your best to stand out. show interest and ingenuity when dealing with both colleagues and authority figures. practical coupled with unique will win out in the end. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take on a challenge and you will excel. you can enhance your reputation if you network or socialize. both personal and professional relation­ships will be important. don’t let a last-minute change alter the way you feel about someone special. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t rely on anything or anyone. you’ll face opposition at home if you don’t find a way to compromise. sign up for a course that will help you master your skills. insight into a personal investment will help you make a decision. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t hesitate to choose what you want to do and the people you want to work alongside. love is in the stars, and socializing or taking a trip to a destination that encourages encounters with people who interest you should be scheduled. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t fold under pressure or let someone guilt you into doing something questionable. rely on past experience when dealing with your boss, client or peers. you can make an interesting professional or financial change by investing in your talent. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make personal changes to the way you live and to the relationships that count. letting go of what doesn’t work for you anymore will be beneficial and result in having more time to concentrate on what’s truly important. love is highlighted. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Focus on causes that need your input. you can make a difference as long as you stick to simple but effective plans that are easy to implement. Too much of anything will be your downfall. a favorable change at home will lift your spirits. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): stop putting off the fun things you hope to accom­plish. make a choice and follow your heart. Take on a challenge that will allow you to satisfy both your personal and professional needs. love and romance are in the stars. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): being low-key and observant will be required to avoid negative reactions from the people you encounter. expect to face a force play if you have not taken care of your end of a bargain you made. deal with authority positively and swiftly. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Take pride in what you do and don’t be afraid to brag about what you’ve accomplished. a contract, settlement or money owed to you will be granted. Travel plans must be kept to a minimum in order to avoid going over budget. 


Birthday Baby: you are a strategist and an entrepreneur. you are mysterious, secre­tive, imaginative. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER | indiana 2, nd 1 
No. 16 Hoosiers top No. 1 Irish in double overtime 
HOCKEY | norTh daKoTa 2, nd 1; nd 5, norTh daKoTa 2 
nd wins saturday to split weekend 

By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
no. 1 notre dame fell to no. 16 indiana 2-1 in double overtime sunday in the third round of the ncaa championship in front of a crowd of 1,242 in alumni stadium. 
indiana sophomore forward eriq Zavaleta sent a header past notre dame senior goalkeeper will walsh with 8:54 remain­ing in the second overtime ses­sion to place indiana (13-5-3) into the quarterfinals and end the season for notre dame (17­4-1). hoosier junior defender matt mcKain delivered a cross to the box that was redirected by hoosier junior midfielder nikita Kotlov to Zavaleta for the score and sent the hoosiers celebrat­ing with the large contingent of indiana supporters who made the trip to south bend. 
“it seemed to be a ball that somehow got in between [ju­nior defender] connor miller and [senior defender] danny o’leary and [Zavaleta] just got in the seam between them and got a header on the ball,” irish coach bobby clark said. “it was put well away from will walsh. i don’t think our goalkeeper had any chance. it was a good header.” 

The irish got on the board first when senior midfielder Kyle richard slotted home a shot in the lower corner in the 54th minute past indiana redshirt 
see richard PAGE 18 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 

on Friday night, the irish felt they had been shorted by an of­ficial’s judgment call that led to a 2-1 loss to no. 7 north dakota. saturday, the team left no room for similar doubts. 
no. 6 notre dame (9-4-0) rebounded with a 5-2 victory saturday. officials waved off an apparent goal by junior cap­tain anders lee in the final minutes of Friday’s game, pre­serving the one-goal victory for north dakota. The irish pep­pered north dakota goaltender clarke saunders with 41 shots in the second contest and junior goaltender steven summerhays stopped all but two pucks sent his way as the team salvaged the weekend split. 
lee noted that a desire to finish the business started on Friday was a motivating force for the irish on saturday. 

“For a good hour after the game last night, a lot of us were mentally into the game that had just ended,” lee said. “i think the biggest thing was to try and con­tinue that fire and that aggres­sion and bring it into tonight.” 
after the frustration of seeing a would-be goal waved off, lee turned in a banner performance saturday, opening the scoring for the irish and also burying the eventual game-winner to finish with two goals and an assist on the night. Fellow junior forward Jeff costello also scored twice. 
lee broke a scoreless tie in the first period off a feed from senior defenseman sam calabrese, put­ting a backhander past saunders and later scored to put the irish up 3-1, beating saunders with a wrister from the left circle. 
in the second period, junior defenseman Kevin lind put the irish up for good, breaking a 1-1 tie with his first goal of the sea­son, a slap shot from the left point with assists to sophomore defen­seman robbie russo and junior forward T.J. Tynan. costello fin­ished the scoring for the irish in the third with two goals, one a tally off a rush with an assist to lee and the second an empty-netter at 19:41 of the third. 
“For the most part it was kind of a crazy game, especially in the first period,” Jackson said. “This time we scored the first goal, which made big difference and gave us a little more confidence.” 
The irish penalty-killers came up big once again, stopping north dakota on all five of its power play opportunities, in­cluding a stretch of five-on-three in the second period just after lind scored to put the irish up 2-1. 
“lind’s goal and then killing off the five-on-three was a huge turning point,” Jackson said. “we got overly emotional in the 
see lind PAGE 18 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | Fsu 1, nd 0 
Young squad falls to Florida State in Elite Eight 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
notre dame’s unlike­ly ncaa tournament run came to a halt Friday in Tallahassee, Fla., when the “baby” irish dropped a 1-0 game to no. 7 Florida st. 
early in the year, irish coach randy waldrum noted the nationwide field did not have one dominant team like it had in years past. but he did mention the seminoles (20-3) as a pro­gram that turned heads. 
“i can see after playing them why they certainly spent a number of weeks at the no. 1 ranking,” waldrum said. 
The seminoles’ three losses came in the last week of the regular season and in the acc tournament semifinal. 
“They’re pretty solid all across the field,” waldrum said. “having said that, i still would go back to what i was saying. i still don’t think there’s been a domi­nant, dominant team this yea r.” 
but even faced with a bal­anced, experienced oppo­nent, waldrum believed his team was competitive and very easily could have won. 
“even with the youth and things that we had with our team, we still could have walked away with a win,” waldrum said. 
seminole redshirt senior forward Tiffany mccarty scored the game’s lone goal after a big throw-in from red-shirt senior forward Jessica price and a redirection by sophomore midfielder dagny brynjarsdottir. 
waldrum felt his team played much better in the second period, yet mccarty’s goal came just as notre dame was rallying. 
“we played very well in the second half,” waldrum said. “we didn’t play well in the first half. They could have been up maybe two or three in the first half just because [freshman goalten­der] elyse hight played so well for us. but the second half, we could have done the same thing.” 
hight made four saves on the day, two in the first half and two in the sec­ond. Freshman forward had three shots on goal, all of which were turned away by redshirt junior goalkeeper 
see goal PAGE 17 


SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 

Freshman forward Cari Roccaro breaks away from a Rutgers defender during a game Oct. 7 in Alumni Stadium. 


Riddick leads the way 
on the strength of senior running back Theo riddick’s 146 yards on the ground, notre dame rushed for 222 yards in its regular-season finale, compared to just 95 for the Trojans. notre dame is 43-2 in its last 45 games in which it gains more yards rushing than its opponent, with the only losses in that run coming against michigan and Florida state during the 2011 season. The Irish have now recorded 200 rushing yards or more seven times in 12 games this season. 

me opponents an one offensive he Irish defense yu, pittsburgh). 

By CHrIS aLLeN 
sports editor 
Lucky number 13 

The Irish completed an undefeated regular season saturday, defeating usc 22-13 to improve their record to 12-0. The undefeated run marks the 13th time in the 125 seasons of notre dame football that the Irish have finished the regular season unbeaten and untied. The last time notre dame went undefeated in the regular season was in 1988, posting an 11-0 mark under then-coach lou holtz. The Irish then followed that up with a 34-21 victory over west Virginia in the Fiesta bowl to clinch the national championship. 
Third time’s the charm 
Irish coach brian Kelly can become the latest in a growing list of notre dame coaches to win the national championship in their third season leading the Irish. predecessors Frank leahy, ara parseghian, dan devine and lou holtz all won a national championship in the third year of their respective tenures as coach. The undefeated reg­ular season also continues a personal trend for Kelly, who led cincinnati to a 12-0 season in 2009, his third year as head coach of the bearcats. Kelly was hired at notre dame before cincinnati com­peted in the sugar bowl to close that season. 
Te’o records 100 tackles — again 
senior linebacker and heisman Trophy candi­date manti Te’o upped his season total in tackles to 103 with five against the Trojans. Te’o is the first notre dame player since bob crable during the 1979-81 seasons to record three straight seasons of 100 tackles. Te’o also intercepted Trojan quar­terback max wittek for his seventh interception of the season. The mark is the highest for a Football bowl subdivision (Fbs) linebacker in 13 seasons. Te’o is second in Fbs this season in interceptions, trailing only Fresno state safety phillip Thomas. 

notre dame finishes the regular season with an average of 10.3 points allowed per game, a mark second only to alabama’s 9.3. 
SCORING SUMMARY 


1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
0  10  0  3  13  
10  6  3  3  22  






NOTRE DAME 3, USC 0 
Kyle brindza 27-yard field goal 

11:25 remaining 

Drive: 9 plays, 66 yards, 3:35 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 10, USC 0 
Theo riddick 9-yard run (brindza kick) 

1:48 remaining 

Drive: 12 plays, 87 yards, 6:57 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 10, USC 7 
robert woods 11-yard pass from max wittek (heidari kick) 

14:55 remaining 

Drive: 6 plays, 75 yards, 1:53 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 13, USC 7 
Kyle brindza 29-yard field goal 

9:19remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 67 yards, 5:31 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 13, USC 10 
andre heidari 39-yard field goal 

3:50remaining 

Drive: 9 plays, 54 yards, 5:24 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 16, USC 10 
Kyle brindza 52-yard field goal 

0:00remaining 

Drive: 9 plays, 48 yards, 1:25 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 19, USC 10 
Kyle brindza 33-yard field goal 

0:31remaining 

Drive: 9 plays, 70 yards, 5:24 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 19, USC 13 
andre heidari 21-yard field goal 

9:20remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 80 yards, 6:05 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 22, USC 13 
Kyle brindza 19-yard field goal 

5:58remaining 

Drive: 8 plays, 54 yards, 3:13 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 
95 
222 
PASSING YARDS 
186 
217 


Time of Possession 
Time of Possession 
25:22 34:38 
PASSING 
RUSHING 

Redd 12-77 Riddick 20-146 McNeal 9-38 Golson 9-47 Lee 1-(-1) Wood 8-20 
RECEIVING 

Woods 7-92 Eifert 4-69 Lee 5-75 Jones 3-40 
TACKLES 

Pullard 13 Farley 9 Dawson 10 Jackson 6 McDonald 10 Motta 5 Starling 8 Te’o 5 Williams 8 Shembo 5 


The obserVer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
Defense records another goal-line stand 
By aLLaN JoSePH 
editor-in-chief 
los angeles — yet again, the game was on the line. yet again, the opponents were at the goal line. yet again, the Irish were de­fending a perfect season. and yet again, the notre dame defense came through. 
“This was another clear indica­tion of how we got to 12-0,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. “our guys have an incredible resolve regard­less of the circumstances of com­ing up and finding ways to win. That’s all we talk about.” 
no. 1 notre dame (12-0) had entered saturday’s showdown at the los angeles coliseum prepar­ing for a pair of explosive receivers in usc’s marqise lee and robert woods. yet through 54 minutes, the Irish had contained the usc passing attack, holding redshirt freshman quarterback max wittek to just 124 yards on 12-of­18 passing with two interceptions. 
but facing a 22-13 deficit with 
5:50 left at their own 45-yard line, the Trojans (7-5) came to life. wittek found lee down the left side of the field for a 53-yard com­pletion to the 2-yard line, bringing the flow of usc fans leaving the stands to a loud and immediate halt. 
with its back in the shadow of a flaming olympic torch on the sta­dium’s east end, the notre dame defense dug in and refused to yield a game-changing touchdown. 
“To be honest with you, with us, as long as you put the ball down and there’s time on the clock, we’re going to battle,” graduate student defensive end Kapron lewis­moore said. “we played hard, we got some pressure and we had 11 guys on the field believe.” 
The Trojans immediately backed up five yards on a false-start penalty before running back curtis mcneal pushed usc to the 4-yard line on first down. 
on second down, wittek lofted a pass toward lee in the corner of the end zone, but freshman cor­nerback KeiVarae russell com­mitted pass interference and gave the sophomore receiver no chance at catching the ball — and then did the same thing on the same play call on the very next snap. 
The penalties brought the Trojans to first and goal from the 1-yard line with 4:07 to go. with just three feet separating the Trojans from a two-point game, the situation was reminiscent of notre dame’s overtime win over stanford six weeks ago — and the Irish defense knew it. 
“It gives you confidence that we have done it before, that it can be achieved, that it’s possible,” lewis-moore said. “yeah, we’ve been here before, so that should give us a little more energy. we’ve done this before, so what’s the dif­ference between then and now?” 
There wasn’t much of one, as it turned out. wittek plunged for­ward twice in an attempt to get the yards himself, but the notre dame defensive line held firm, anchored by junior nose tackle louis nix. 
“he’s a hell of a player,” lewis­moore said. “he’s a big guy and he’s really active in the backfield.” 
with precious seconds bleeding off the clock after two consecutive failed rushing plays, usc coach lane Kiffin burned a timeout — and came out of it with a running play for mcneal. Irish safeties matthias Farley and Zeke motta crashed in from the edges and nix blew through blockers in the middle to stuff mcneal yet again, bringing up 4th-and-goal. 
“whenever the ball is that close to the goal-line, we have to tighten up and that’s what we did,” senior linebacker manti Te’o said. 
on fourth down, wittek found soma Vainuku, but the fullback couldn’t hold on to the low pass and the ball bounced to the ground, giving the Irish another goal-line stand in a season full of memorable moments. 
“we did it,” lewis-moore said. 
“we did it. It’s crazy, you know? no. 1 and keeping that no. 1 and being 12-0 and playing for a na­tional championship, it’s some­thing spectacular. 
“It’s awesome. you just put the ball down and if there’s time on the clock we’re going to battle. we’re not going to give up. This team and this defense, we’ve got a lot of character. we’ve got a lot of guys that play hard, and they play with heart. as long as you put the ball down and they’re not in the end zone we’re going to fight.” 


Contact allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

riddick earns tough yards to lead offense 
with flawless pass blocking through the line and looked and caught three passes — in-sure to drop him for a loss. cluding a crucial third-down riddick quickly spun away conversion along the notre from the pursuing defend-dame sideline. ers and broke through a hole, 
but it was his bruising rush-driving through cornerback ing performance that earned nickell robey downfield for his coach’s accolades. many a 15-yard gain into the red of riddick’s 146 yards on the zone. The run set up a chip-ground came after contact. shot field goal for sopho­
“you just look at his jersey more kicker Kyle brindza that after the game and you go, proved to be the game’s final ‘There’s no wonder why this score. team has the toughness that “my will is the same it does,’” Kelly said. throughout every game. I 
Though the 5-foot-11, mean I never try to go down 200-pound back has gained easy,” riddick said. “I keep on a reputation for playing like fighting. I was lucky to get out a much larger back due to his of some tackles today.” bruising style, riddick said on a night notre dame fans his ability to run after contact will not soon forget, riddick is just his natural instinct. completed his season-long re­
“I was just running hard. turn from receiver to running That’s what I’m supposed back by taking 20 handoffs to do,” he said of his perfor-and running right into notre mance. “The offensive line dame lore. For riddick, it was did a great job today. I was the final regular-season game able to explore holes and of a career played at multiple make people miss. positions with his teammates 
“It was just great to see all in mind. the linemen doing their jobs “what can I say? I play back over the last three sea-receiver for me the first two up front, and moving those for my teammates. during 
By CHrIS aLLeN 

sports editor sons, turned in the best game years, we asked him to move big guys to make great holes those transitions, I didn’t re-of his career as the Irish de-back to running back, and for us. like I said, my hat goes ally have a problem with it,” 
los angeles — with one feated usc 22-13. The senior in game 12 he manages 140 off to my offensive linemen. riddick said. “coach Kelly win left to clinch a national rushed for 146 yards — a ca-yards, but broke countless without them, there’s no me.” wanted me to play wide re-championship berth and fac-reer high — and added 33 re-tackles and got us the tough riddick produced the of-ceiver, I played it. getting ing a hostile road environ-ceiving yards while breaking yards that we needed today.” fensive highlight of the game back in the backfield, I did ment against its biggest rival, countless tackles throughout riddick’s versatility as a for notre dame as the Irish that too. I do it for my team­notre dame rode the legs of the game. running back was on display clung to a 19-13 lead with mates … I’m a team guy. I have senior running back Theo “If you want to know about all over the field through-7:47 left on 1st-and-10 from been my whole career. I’ll do riddick to the bcs national the Fighting Irish, you just out the Irish victory. The the usc 26-yard line. riddick anything for my teammates.” championship game. need to look at Theo riddick,” senior from manville, n.J., took a handoff as usc defen­
riddick, who has bounced Irish coach brian Kelly said. kept sophomore quarterback sive lineman morgan breslin Contact Chris allen at between receiver and running “here’s a guy that was a wide everett golson from pressure and safety Josh shaw broke callen10@nd.edu 



THE ROAD TO 12–0 

NOTRE DAME 50, NAVY 10 NOTRE DAME 20, PURDUE 17 

NOTRE DAME 20, MICHIGAN STATE 3 NOTRE DAME 13, MICHIGAN 6 

NOTRE DAME 41, MIAMI 3 NOTRE DAME 20, STANFORD 13 (OT) 

NOTRE DAME 17, BYU 14 NOTRE DAME 30, OKLAHOMA 13 

NOTRE DAME 29, PITTSBURGH 26 (3OT) NOTRE DAME 21, BOSTON COLLEGE 6 

NOTRE DAME 38, WAKE FOREST 0 NOTRE DAME 22, USC 13 

The obserVer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserVer.com 


NEXT STOP: 
MIAMI 
The Irish completed a regular season for the ages under the lights in Los Angeles, defeating USC 22-13 to go 12-0. Senior running back Theo Riddick ran for a career-high 146 yards on 20 carries and senior linebacker Manti Te’o intercepted his seventh pass of the season. Notre Dame is likely to play either Alabama or Georgia in the BCS National Championship Game on Jan. 7. 









