
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Congregation celebrates 175th anniversary 
By KRISTEN DURBIN congregation that has maintained tured from Europe to start schools arrived at Notre Dame in 1843, and Dame was amplified during the News Writer a seamless continuity with our in southern Indiana at the request they immediately recruited local early 20th century with the success 
founder’s vision for the past 175 of a group of French bishops, Con-women to join their community of legendary football coach Knute 

As the Congregation of Holy Cross years,” Jenkins said. ‘The anniver-nelly said, which led to the founding and established a school in Ber-Rockne. celebrates its 175th anniversary to-sary is an opportunity to celebrate of the University in November 1842 trand, Mich., which would eventu-“Immense publicity was brought day, its enduring influence on Notre our past and renew our commit-when several brothers and priests ally become Saint Mary’s College, to Notre Dame with its football suc­Dame’s international vision and ment to education, inquiry and ser-migrated north. Connelly said. cess, so that increased enrollment commitment to Catholic education vice to the Church and the world.” “There was only one school Holy Cross, whose American to the thousands and attracted stu­and service is readily apparent. Fr. Jim Connelly, a Congregation needed in Vincennes, so the bishop headquarters are at Notre Dame, dents from around the country,” he 
University President Fr. John historian, said its 1837 establish-made a deal with Fr. [Edward] So-also played a role in American Civil said. Jenkins said the anniversary signi-ment by Fr. Basil Moreau in Le-rin and the Holy Cross brothers: if War history, as several priests and The onset of World War II nearly fies the strength of the consistent Mans, France, laid the foundation they came to northern Indiana, he sixty sisters served the Union army forced the University to shut down mission of Holy Cross in relation to for the group’s forays into interna-would give them the land to which as chaplains and nurses, Connelly due to lack of male students, but the the legacy of the University it estab-tional mission work and Catholic he held title to start a school,” Con-said. implementation of an accelerated lished in 1842. education. nelly said. Connelly said the national im­
“It is deeply satisfying to serve a In 1841, Holy Cross brothers ven-A contingent of Holy Cross sisters pact of the Congregation and Notre see HOLY CROSS/page 5 
Juniors face off in Saint Mary’s presidential elections 
Parsons, Casey aim to unify campus, implement technology 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Unity, technology and empower­ment are three of the central goals of Saint Mary’s juniors Maureen Parsons and Meghan Casey, who will be running for student body president and vice president, re­spectively, in today’s election. 
The ticket’s platform features four goals: to work with adminis­tration to launch 85 new technology initiatives, unify campus, empower each other as women and encour­age more community service, Par­sons and Casey said. 
“We wanted to focus on things 

see PARSONS/page 7 



Hans, Hudson seek to foster sisterhood through mentorship 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
When the polls close on today’s student government elections this evening, juniors Taylor Hans and Betsy Hudson hope to be the new faces of the Saint Mary’s student body. 
Hans, the current vice presi­dent of the class of 2013, and Hudson, a community committee member, are running for student body president and vice president, respectively. Their campaign is based on a platform of “bringing back tradition but making our own history,” Hans said. 

see HANS/page 7 



Alta Gracia promotes fair factory practices 
By DREW PANGRAZE 
News Writer 
Focused on promoting service and socially responsible busi­ness practices, members of the Notre Dame community met in Geddes Hall on Wednesday to discuss the apparel company Alta Gracia. 
The clothing company pro­vides workers with living wages while maintaining competitive pricing in the apparel market. 
Since its inception 10 years ago, Alta Gracia has surpassed Nike and adidas as the No. 1 supplier of collegiate apparel and is gaining ground as Notre Dame’s chief source of blank T-shirts, event presenters said. 
Alta Gracia’s website states it is also the only clothing factory in the world that pays the peo­ple who make the clothing a liv­ing wage, the amount of money needed to support a family. 
During the presentation “Alta Gracia: Changing Lives One Shirt at a Time,” senior Alta Gracia intern Caitlin Alli said the company can provide ad­equate food, clean water, cloth­ing, shelter, healthcare, child care and education for its work­ers by charging $0.30 more per shirt. 
“With the extra $0.30, Alta 

see ALTA/page 6 




Summit features green transit 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
As a continuation of Notre Dame’s commitment to sustain­ability, the fifth annual Green Summit showcased a trade show focused on green trans­portation, said Sara Brown, program and intern director for the Office of Sustainability. 
“Transportation is something we get a lot of questions about in the community,” she said. “It is something we want to get people talking about, whether it is human powered transpor­tation, hybrid fuels and electric cars or public transportation.” 
The summit, which took place in the Stepan Center on Wednesday, featured various 


see GREEN/page 6 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
Visitors to the Green Summit examine a sustainable car Wednesday in the Stepan Center. 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Loyal Sons and Daughters page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Project 214 preview page 10 u Costello returns to men’s hockey lineup page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE MOST UNDERRATED PART OF YOUR DORM? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Kristen Durbin Matthew Robison Tori Roeck Matthew DeFranks Dan Brombach Kelsey Manning Graphics Scene Elisa De Castro Alex Kilpatrick Photo Viewpoint Mackenzie Sain Caroline Lang  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 42 LOW 36 


Matthew Sushinsky  Robert Niehaus  Tony Schlehuber  Patrick Kissling  James Hesburgh  Danny Barrera  
senior  senior  senior  senior  senior  senior  
Alumni  Alumni  Alumni  Alumni  Alumni  Alumni  
“Wakin’ and  “Sush Week.”  “Dawg Hockey.”  “Walk-on  “Wake Week.”  “Hall staff.”  
shakin’.”  superstar  
Patrick  
Crowley.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Mother and her child both born on leap day 
SADDLE RIVER, N.J. — A New Jersey mother born on February 29 beat 2 million­to-1 odds when she had her daughter — who was also born on leap day. 
Michelle Birnbaum of Saddle River tells The New York Post that she’ll use the occasion to teach her 4-year-old daughter Rose about science and the earth’s cycles around the sun. 
Birnbaum turns 32 Wednesday, but will cel­ebrate for only the eighth time on the actual date. It comes once every four years as the result of a system in­tended to keep the seasons, years, months and days in working order. 
Birnbaum went into labor on Feb. 28, 2008, but Rose was born the following day. 
She tells the newspaper she’s delighted to have a “built in party partner.” 
Man returns to bank after robbery attempt 
CHAMBLEE, Ga. — Au­thorities say a man has been arrested after re­turning back to the subur­ban Atlanta bank he tried to rob in order to withdraw money for his cab fare home. 
The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reports that 39-year-old Trevor Gladston Jr. was charged with attempted armed rob­bery. 
Chamblee police say Gladston is accused of giv­ing a bank teller a note demanding cash Tuesday. Police say he left without money when the teller fled, protected by bullet-resis­tant glass. 
Authorities say he fled in a taxi but the driver flagged down a transit police offi­cer after being concerned her passenger would leave without paying. 
Police say that officer didn’t know about the rob­bery attempt and talked Gladston into returning to the bank to withdraw mon­ey for the cab ride. He later was arrested. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The Breen-Phillips Hall Annual Meal Auction starts today at 12 p.m. in the So­rin and Dooley Rooms in­side the LaFortune Stu­dent Center.  All proceeds from the event will benefit Meals on Wheels. 
Professor Deborah Avant will give a lecture titled, “The Market for Force: Recent Developments and Implications for Peace-building,” today at 12:30 
p.m. in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center for In­ternational Studies.  In her lecture, Avant will dis­cuss recent developents in the private provision of force, the private financing of force and efforts to regu­late the market of force. 
The Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning will  host a panel discus­sion titled, “Reinvigorating Our Teaching,” at 2 p.m. today in the LaFortune Student Center. This panel discussion will explore in­novations in teaching and approaches for reenergiz­ing teaching methods. 
Lina Insana will give a lecture on Primo Levi ti­tled, “The Butterfly’s Face: Ethical Encounters with the Animal Other,” at 4 
p.m. today in the Hesburgh Library. Best known for his account of the time he spent in Auschwitz, Primo Levi was a prolific writer whose poetry and essays contained vivid images of human persecution and suffering. 
To submit information to be included in this sec­tion of The Observer, e­mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 







HIGH 57 LOW 31 
HIGH 38 LOW 22 
HIGH 32 LOW 23 
HIGH 38 LOW 33 





‘Loyal Daughters and Sons’ sparks dialogue 


By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 
This weekend, “Loyal Daughters and Sons” will present true stories of sexual assault submitted by Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s stu­dents. The 2012 installment of the annual production will serve as a means of educat­ing both campuses on the re­ality of sexual assault, junior Athena Hughes said. 
“The main thing is aware­ness of the diversity of stu­dents’ experiences of sex­ual assault and rape,” for scripts for scenes and monologues. 
This year’s performances will also feature abstract dance and a pre-recorded film portion, Hughes said. 
Hughes said she believes the annual performances have improved the treatment of sexual assault on campus since they began in 2006 as a gender studies student’s se­nior thesis. 
“The atmosphere on cam­pus has changed a lot the past few years,” she said. “Loyal Daughters and Sons has started dialogue and 
Hughes, the discussion.” 
“The main thing is 
show’s pro-Prior to the 
awareness of the diversity 
ducer, said. last academic 
of students’ experiences of 
Hughes year, the Du-
sexual assault and rape.” 
said the pro-Lac student duction seeks handbook ’s to correct Athena Hughes policy on sex­mispercep -producer ual crimes 
tions about sexual activ­ity among students on cam­pus. 
“We have a perception that either no one is doing it [sex], or that the people who are do­ing it are doing it in an un­healthy way,” she said. 
She also said she hopes the show will spark dialogue about sexuality at Notre Dame. 
“Generally there is a more conservative attitude [here],” she said, “which isn’t a bad thing, but it keeps people from talking about [sex].” 
treated them 
in a similar fashion as the treatment of consensual sex. This meant students could face conse­quences from the Office of Residence Life for reporting an incident of sexual assault. 
Du Lac has now clarified its sexual assault policy and clearly defines consent, and it created a new process for reporting and investigating sexual assault, Hughes said. 
Initially inspired byscam­pus productions of ‘the Vagi­na Monologues,’ Loyal Daugh­ters and Sons eventual-
H u g h e s lydevolved 
“Generally there is a more 
said using into a yearly 
conservative attitude 
student s’ evenr spon­
[here], which isn’t a bad 
real-life ac-sored by the 
counts in the thing, but it keeps people Gender Stud-performance from talking about [sex].” ies Depart-add resses ment, Hughes the myth that Athena Hughes said. sexual as-She said a 
producer 
sault does not occur at Notre Dame. 
“It makes an impact be­cause you know it’s not made up,” she said. “It brings it home because you know this is happening in your commu­nity … these are our peers’ and classmates’ stories. It’s important to know it really happened so people think of it.” 
This year, the producers and writers worked to further break down stereotypes by ensuring wide variety of students participate 
in the various aspects of the performancd. 
“It tends to be a combina­tion of people involved in gender relations and people involved in theater,” Hughes said. …this is an opportuni­ty to combine an interest in acting and an interest in so­cial issues, Hughes said she hopes the audience will bet­ter understand the variety of experiences of sex, sexu­ality, gender, 
the stories “The atmosphere on religion and presented are campus has changed a relationships not one-sid-lot the past few years. on campus, ed, Hughes Loyal Daughters and and that said. Sons has started dialogue some element 
“This year of the pro-
and discussion.” 
we’re trying duction will to open it up,” appeal to ev-
Athena Hughes 
Hughes said. ery viewer. “We tried to producer “Everyone 
focus on the fact that men could be vic­tims … It’s often complicat­ed.” 
Hughes said the entirely student-generated theatrical production incorporates ma­terial from previous years’ performances, as well as new material. The production pro­cess begins in the fall when the two student writers pe­tition for personal accounts from students, she said. The writers then conduct confi­dential, one-on-one inter­views to accumulate content 
can think about it, talk about it, feel less alone-and hopefully con­nect with someone on stage,” 
Hughes said.  
Loyal  Daughters  and  
Sons  willstake  place  in  the  
Hesburgh  Library’s  Carey  

Auditorium,today, Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $1 for students and $3 for non-students and are avail­able at the LaFortune box of­fice or at the door. 

Contact Abi Hoverman at ahoverma@nd.edu 




Saint Mary’s professor analyzes Michigan primary 
By KEELIN McGEE 
News Writer 
Just across the state line, the Michigan Republican presiden­tial primary took center stage as candidates battled for the state’s delegates Tuesday. 
Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney and former Penn­sylvania Sen. Rick Santorum emerged as the leading candi­dates in a tight Tuesday prima­ry, in which Romney edged out Santorum with 41.1 percent of the reported votes to Santorum’s 
37.9 percent, according to an As­sociated Press poll. 
Sean Savage, professor of po­litical science at Saint Mary’s, said Romney and Santorum’s battle for the lead was a close call. 
“At the end of last week, ac­cording to a composite of differ­ent polls, Santorum was ahead by 0.08 percent,” Savage said. “It was that close.” 
Savage said the economy and the candidates’ electabil­ity against President Barack Obama significantly influenced voters’ opinions. 
“Certainly the economy was a major issue with the impact it has had on Detroit and the auto industry,” Savage said. “Accord­ing to exit polls, voters wanted someone who had business and administrative experience [in the private sector], but people also voted for who they thought would be able to beat President Obama, and that was Romney.” 
Santorum, however, main­tained a solid base of loyal con­servatives supporters, Savage said. 
“According to polls from the primary, Santorum had the most support from labor union members, blue-collar workers, evangelicals, voters who saw abortion as the biggest issue and the more loyal conservatives,” Savage said. 
Savage said Romney’s level of education and affluence ap­pealed to voters. 
Despite the close nature of the race, Savage said a few in­tangible factors contributed to Romney’s victory, including his personal connection to the state of Michigan. 
“Romney grew up in Michi­gan, and his father [George Romney] had been governor,” Savage said. “And even though Romney lost overall to McCain in the 2008 [primary] election, he won Michigan.” 
Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder endorsed Romney, who led a more organized campaign in Michigan than Santorum, Sav­age said. 
“Santorum would hold ral­lies and there would be people cheering, but then there was no follow-up with his supporters,” Savage said. “There was no or­ganized way of collecting names, emails and numbers to continue to encourage their support, but Romney’s campaign did not have such organizational problems.” 




SENATE 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
In the wake of alleged hate crimes against the Black Stu­dent Association and the Af­rican Student Association, Student Senate unanimously passed a resolution requesting a renewed commitment to rid­ding Notre Dame of discrimi­natory harassment Wednes­day. 
The resolution asked the University to improve adver­tisement of how to report and address discrimination. It re­quested the reevaluation of residence hall staff training on creating a welcoming com­munity and the enumeration of staff’s responsibilities in re­sponding to harassment. The resolution also asked residence halls to educate students on what constitutes discrimina­tory harassment. 
Maya Younes, Movimiento Estudiantil Chicano de Aztlán (MEChA) club diversity council representative, said she had heard many stories of racism in residence halls, including an incident in which someone wrote racial slurs on a stu­dent’s poster. She said the stu­dent reported the incident to the rector, but no disciplinary action was taken. The student later learned the rector had discarded the poster. 
Younes said she sent a sur­vey on discriminatory harass­ment to 60 students and 25 re­sponded. Six students said they had been victims of racial dis­crimination in their residence halls, and three of the six said they had reported it to authori­ties, she said. 
“The main problem that we see with this issue of unreport­ed cases is that it is bad for the victim as well as the perpetra­tor because it can have long­standing consequences in the minds of both parties,” Younes said. “We don’t want certain attitudes to develop that this can be tolerated, and if people think that this is acceptable, then they will take it with them into society after Notre Dame.” 
John Sanders, residence life director for student govern­ment, said the resolution in-


Group discusses discrimination 
tends to prevent such instances of discriminatory harassment from being overlooked. 
“The purpose of this is to sort of outline greater steps that we can take to prevent things like this from happening again and to make sure if they do, we can do something about it,” Sand­ers said. 
Younes said other universi­ties, such as Texas A&M, al­low students to report harass­ment on webpages. At Notre Dame, rectors currently decide whether to report instances of discrimination to the Office of Residence Life and Housing, Younes said. 
“The way that policy is out­lined now for the reporting procedure is a bit vague, so if it were more specific that the rector is legally bound to turn in evidence to the Office of Residence Life for example, that could be a way to address [discriminatory harassment],” Younes said. 
Sanders said such incidents may go unreported because the procedure for reporting discriminatory harassment is difficult to find online. 
Student body vice president and president-elect Brett Ro­cheleau said to reach students living off-campus, the proce­dure for reporting discrimina­tory harassment will be adver­tised in academic buildings, in addition to residence halls. He also said most students live in residence halls for multiple years and will be exposed to advertisements there before moving off campus. 
Senate also passed a resolu­tion expanding the role of the student union webmaster to oversee student government’s external communications in a new director of communica­tions position. 
The group then discussed restaurant contracts for the LaFortune Student Center. Sbarro’s contract will expire at the end of the academic year, and Food Services will likely replace Buen Provecho within the next year. 
The majority of Senate sup­ported opening Panda Express in place of Buen Provecho and both Taco Bell and Pizza Hut in place of Sbarro. No final deci­sions were made. 
Rocheleau said revenue earned from LaFortune’s food establishments is returned to Food Services and funds the dining halls. 
“Whatever you think would help make the most money would make all the other food better,” he said. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
While Romney’s close win in Michigan is influential, Savage said it will not determine who wins the GOP nomination, es­pecially because the candidates still face a long road until the Republican National Convention in August. 
“Michigan was a close race and a good win for Romney,” Savage said. “However, Romney only has 14 percent of the nec­essary delegates for the nomina­tion, so there is still a long road ahead.” 


Contact Keelin McGee at kmcgee01@saintmarys.edu 





Fair features options for healthy lifestyles 

By SHANNON O’BRIEN 
News Writer 
With spring break approaching quickly, health-minded students descended on the third annual Student Health and Wellness Fair on Wednesday to learn about the opportunities for healthy living available at Notre Dame and in the South Bend community. 
Jennie Phillips, RecSports assis­tant director of fitness and fitness facilities, said organizers conceived “How the Health Are You?” three years ago after seeing similar fairs at other schools. 
“We felt that Notre Dame could use such an event to make sure students know of all the resources available to them,” she said.  “We looked at all the facets of well­ness in the lives of college students and made sure to address each of them.” 
Phillips said students should pri­oritize their health, even if it means taking extra time to exercise and eat well. 
“As a college student there are so many demands put upon students, that sometimes they can forget the importance of health,” Phillips said. “This fair provides a chance to refocus.” 
The fair brought together a vari­ety of health and wellness groups, including Notre Dame Food Servic­es, RecSports, the University Coun­seling Center and South Bend’s Me­morial Sleep Disorders Center. 
Freshman Kathryn Bush said she appreciated learning about health and wellness opportunities in South Bend. 
“I think it’s really great organiza­tions from South Bend are here,” she said.  “I learned of resources that are so close to campus I never knew existed, such as Salon Rouge, a full-service salon only a few miles away.” 
Freshman Julianne Carson said the fair’s collection of health groups represented a variety of needs. 
“I was so impressed with the di­versity of groups at the fair. They had everything from sleep depriva­tion to fitness,” she said. 
The fair also introduced students to on-campus opportunities to im­prove health and wellness. 
“I had never been to Rolfs [Sports Recreation Center],” freshman Christina Serena said. “So this fair was the perfect opportunity to check the gym out, as well as learn about so many opportunities I nev­er knew existed.” 
The Office of Sustainability con­tributed to the fair to promote the connection between health and sustainable living, senior Office of Sustainability intern Jenna Heffer­nan said. 
“Sustainability is a very impor­tant aspect of health because in or­der for us to be physically healthy, we need a clean environment to live in,” she said. “No matter how many new products we manufacture, we will never be able to produce a new atmosphere.” 
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education allowed students to sim­ulate the visual impairment caused by alcohol by playing Wii Bowling while wearing “beer goggles.” 
In addition to the event’s interac­tive tables, several presentations educated students on relevant health issues, including meditation techniques, sleep issues, energy drinks and partying. 
Phillips said the overall goal of the fair was to promote education and a health-conscious attitude among students. 
“We also wanted to make this fair a learning experience,” Phillips said. “The collegiate setting is the first time many students are living on their own, making it the perfect time to start developing life-time habits regarding health.” 
Contact Shannon O’Brien at sobrie12@nd.edu 
SGA 


Association prepares for turnover 
By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
As the April 1 turnover dead­line quickly approaches, the Saint Mary’s Student Govern­ment Association (SGA) dis­cussed preparations for its last few weeks in office and the out­come of Thursday’s elections at its Wednesday meeting. 
Members of SGA said stu­dents would be able to use their laptops to vote at several locations on campus, including Spes Unica Hall, the Student Center and the Noble Family Dining Hall. Students will also receive a personal voting link via email. 
At last week’s SGA meeting, student body vice president Jacqualyn Zupancic said she hopes the student body mobi­lizes on Election Day. 
“We want as many students to be involved in voting as pos­sible, and that is why we have set up booths at various spots around campus to bring more awareness and involvement,” she said. 
Once the elections conclude, SGA will focus its efforts on pre­paring for a smooth turnover. Student body president Nicole Gans recommended current SGA members take necessary steps to help their successors adjust to their new positions. 
“Make a folder or pass on your actual binders for the people who will be taking your position because just giving in­formation you wish you would have known to people in your position would be helpful,” she said. 
Chief of staff Emily Skirtich seconded Gans’s recommenda­tion of promoting communica­tion between outgoing and in­coming SGA members. 
Skirtich said strong commu­nication will be beneficial in the future when SGA, Residence Hall Association, Student Ac­tivities Board, Student Diversity Board, Senate and class boards collaborate to plan events. 
In preparation for turnover, SGA must complete the SGA Constitution and develop guide­lines for the councils’ presen­tation of legislation to the new Senate. Zupancic said they hope to get the constitution approved before turnover. 
Though preparations for turnover still remain, members of the current SGA said they intend to make the remainder of their term successful while preparing incoming members for a successful future. 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 




SMC hosts Midnight Madness 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s College Student Activity Board (SAB) hosted Midnight Madness on Wednesday night to cele­brate school spirit and build excitement for the midnight announcement of this year’s SMC Tostal performer, Sam­my Adams. 
Junior SAB member Anna Vaughn said the event unites students from all class years for a night of light-hearted games and activities. 
“The purpose is to bring classes together in fun com­petition,” Vaughn said. “Ev­eryone comes together not only as a class, but also as a school.” 
SAB set up a variety of activities, including dodge-ball, “minute to win it” games, hula-hoop contests, an Oreo-eating contest com­plete with milk, a relay race and a tug-of-war competi­tion. Senior Emily Skirtich said the night’s events foster both competition and com­munity among Saint Mary’s students. 
“I love the class competi­tion aspect of Midnight Mad­ness,” Skirtich said. “It’s a great way to bring a sense of community to our school. And I love the ‘minute to win it’ games.” 
Vaughn said students were encouraged to wear clothes in their respective class col­ors, with seniors in blue, ju­niors in green, sophomores in pink and first years in purple. 

The South Bend commu­nity also contributed dona­tions to Midnight Madness, Vaughn said. 
“We also try to promote community businesses as well,” Vaughn said. “We were able to get a lot of do­nations from local business­es.” 
Businesses such as Bru­no’s Pizza, Salon Rouge, Dairy Maid and the Shaheen Bookstore donated prizes for many of the Midnight Mad­ness games and activities. 
First year Maeve Curly said she was excited to par­ticipate in activities at her first Midnight Madness. 
“I think [Midnight Mad­ness] is so much fun,” Curly said. “And I really like how it encourages school spirit at Saint Mary’s.” 
First year Kelly Crookse­said she was impressed by the hard work SAB put into­emaking the event a success. 
“They did such a nice job promoting the event,” Crooks said. “It showed me that it must be a great way to sup­port the school as well.” 
Contact Madeline Miles at miles01@saintmarys.edu 



Holy Cross 
continued from page 1 
Naval officer training program kept campus alive during wartime, Con­nelly said. 
Despite these wartime challeng­es, Connelly said Holy Cross con­tinued its reputation as a leader of Catholic education throughout the world, including such institutions of higher education as St. Edward’s University, the University of Port­land, King’s College and Stonehill College. 
“Because of Holy Cross’s good reputation in establishing Notre Dame, the Congregation was invit­ed to open other schools around the country,” he said. “Some Holy Cross priests are parish priests, but edu­cation has been the primary focus here and in missions abroad.” 
Beginning with the foundation of the Holy Cross missions in Bangla­desh in 1853, the Congregation has maintained a strong international presence in several countries, in­cluding Chile, Uganda, Kenya, Tan­zania, Brazil, Ghana, India, Peru, Mexico and the Philippines. 
Connelly said these missions fo­cus on the development of second­ary schools and parishes, and the work of Holy Cross religious has paved the way for Notre Dame stu­dents to serve abroad. 
“Many of the programs that have developed at Notre Dame started because they went to places where the Congregation was active, such as east Africa and Chile,” Connelly said. 
Fr. Sean McGraw, a Notre Dame graduate and professor of political science, said the international in­fluence of the Congregation is em­bedded in the mission of the Uni­versity, and this connection came to life during his visits to Holy Cross missions in Chile, India and Haiti. 
“In each of these three places I was struck by the joy of the people there and their commitment to serving the poor and serving in schools,” McGraw said. “To be able to see people filled with so much joy working in challenging situations was a powerful witness that we’re part of something bigger, and Holy Cross allows us to remember we’re an international community.” 
McGraw holds a unique connec­tion to the University, as he has lived out the Holy Cross mission as an undergraduate, a co-founder of the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), a seminarian and now as a professor. 
“When I came back to start ACE, I realized the wonderful power of education as a transformative force in the world. As a seminar­ian, I came to know a deeper sense of how everything we do is rooted in Christ and the Gospel,” he said. “Now, as a teacher, I integrate all of those things.” 
Through these varied experi­ences, McGraw said he has come to understand the meaning of the shared mission of Holy Cross and Notre Dame to educate the mind and heart. 
“That’s one of the things you al­ways hear about Holy Cross. We teach, reside, pray, celebrate and do things with students, and the com­munity here gives us the opportuni­ty to live that mission, so hopefully we are witnesses of that,” he said. “Holy Cross has had a strong rela­tionship with the laity by forging its mission with the people we live and serve with, which is one of the great legacies of the mission of Holy Cross at Notre Dame.” 
Citing the University’s founder as an influence for his vision as an ed­ucator today, McGraw said Fr. So­rin’s personal vision of Notre Dame as a beacon of light and hope in the world resonates in his relationship with students. 
“I love the notion of seeing the light and giving them hope,” he said. “That’s what we still try to do here, especially in education. We try to help each student discover their passions, their own light.” 

Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 



Green 
continued from page 1 
purveyors of green transportation, including bicycle shops and car dealerships that distribute electric and hybrid cars. 
Brown said the event gave stu­dents and the rest of the Notre Dame community more informa­tion about green transportation than they might otherwise have access to. 
“This event is a great way to show examples of what the Uni­versity is mak­

“This event is a great 
ing strides (in) 

and the options way to show examples students have of what the University after gradua-is making strides (in) tion,” she said. and the options students “It spans what have after graduation.” 
you can use to­day and what 

Sara Brown 
is offered after 

Office of Sustainability 
you graduate.” 
John Hall, owner of Av­enue Bike Sta­tion in South Bend, said riding a bike is a popular form of green transportation.  He said he strives to make his store sustainable, re­cycling salvageable parts of bikes restored at the shop. 
“At our shop, we don’t believe in throwing much of anything away,” he said. “We recycle what we can [when restoring bikes] and replace what needs to be replaced.” 
The Transpo bus system offers students another green way of travelling. 
Jeanette Panceast, a Transpo representative, said public trans­portation offers people an easy and efficient way to live more sus­tainably. 
“Public transportation is very green and our new building is LEED certified,” she said. “We are also trying to make our routes more efficient by decreasing stops to designated stops only, which will help save fuel.” 
In the winter, Transpo switches to a hybrid fuel blend to cut down bus emissions, Transpo represen­tative Mike Stahy said. 
“We use a B-5 and B-20 hybrid soy ethanol mix with the diesel,” he said. 
McCormick Motors in Nap­panee, Ind., sells the Chevy Volt, 
an innovative electric car. Bernie Beer, McCormick’s principal deal­er, said the Volt promotes green living by elimi­nating the need for gasoline. 
“We’ve got about 1,800 miles on [the showroom model] and so far, we have 
only used 5 gallons of gas,” Beer said. “That comes out to roughly 300 miles to a gallon.” 
Beer said owning an electric car adds the same amount of electric­ity needed to run a refrigerator to his electricity bill. 
Along with selling green ve­hicles, McCormick Motors is com­mitted to being sustainable, vice president Gordon Moore said. 
“Since 1998, we have recycled or used 10,000 gallons of liquid waste, and had an annual reduc­tion of 62 tons of solid waste sent to land fills,” he said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 



Alta 
continued from page 1 
Gracia is able to pay their workers a living wage of $2.83 an hour — that is 240 percent higher than the minimum wage of $0.83 an hour in the Dominican Republic,” Alli said. 
College students nationwide have demonstrated an inter­est in paying extra if it means their purchases will have a di­rect positive impact on work­ers’ lives. Notre Dame, Duke, UCLA and Brown are among the 350 schools nationwide that are currently working with Alta Gracia to produce their collegiate apparel. 
Alta Gracia has already partnered with The Shirt Com­mittee and agreed to produce The Shirt for the 2012 football season. Junior Andrew Alea, president of the 2012 Shirt Committee, said Alta Gracia’s mission makes it the perfect vendor for this year’s version of The Shirt. 
“They produce qual­ity shirts, have a quick turn­around time, are fully com­mitted to The Shirt Project and their message of ‘chang­ing lives one shirt at a time’ is consistent with the inherent goals of The Shirt Project and the University of Notre Dame,” Alea said. 
According to the presenta­tion, Alta Gracia relies heavily on workers’ stories and college student activism for market­ing. Senior Amanda Meza had the opportunity to visit the Alta Gracia factory in the Do­minican Republic last spring. 

“During my time in the Alta Gracia village in the Domini­can Republic, I stayed with a local family,” Meza said. “There was little water and the electricity went out frequently. I was able to talk with the factory workers and to spend some time in their shoes.” 
Meza has since returned to Notre Dame with a passion for the Alta Gracia cause and hopes the community becomes more involved in the compa­ny’s mission. 
“Alta Gracia can make the shirt for any Notre Dame club on campus,” said Meza.  “The factory makes the literal shirt, and a local South Bend ven­dor imprints the graphics. We need students’ support.” 
Sophomore Alta Gracia in­tern Samuel Evola said Notre Dame’s proponents of Alta Gra­cia are working to sell more of the company’s clothing at the Hammes Notre Dame Book­store, as well. 
“We know that socially re­sponsible clothing is highly profitable, so we hope the [Hammes] Notre Dame Book­store will support Alta Gra­cia,” Evola said. “We’re hoping to have as much as $500,000 worth of Alta Gracia gear for sale in the bookstore down the road.” 

Contact Drew Pangraze at apangraz@nd.edu 


student talk about these issues would give other girls confidence and let them know they can open up about body issues and talk about it.” 
Hans and Hudson said they want to promote school spirit by increasing student attendance at Saint Mary’s athletic events through the distribution of free giveaways to fans. 
thing we really want to get across to the student body.” 
The ticket also values the voice of the student body, Hans said. 
“We also thought of having a type of hall meeting where stu­dents can come once a month and voice what they want to see on campus,” Hans said. “We think it’s really important that the stu­dents get in­volved and let 



Hans 
continued from page 1 
If elected, Hans and Hudson plan to bring back dorm dances and the “Big Sister” mentor pro­gram, in which upperclassmen help first years and sophomores become more acclimated to the Saint Mary’s community. 

The mentor program would “Incentives “We would like to us know what follow the example of an existing for attend-work with Women’s we are and are niche mentoring program within ing sporting, Health on body issues not doing.” the College’s nursing program, whether it be around campus.” Hans and Hudson said. giving out sun-Hudson said 
“Actually, the nursing program glasses or t-they want to 
Betsy Hudson 

has developed a type of mentor-shirts, would promote a 
vice presidential candidate 

ing program this year and it has be the way we greater sense 
been working really well,” Hud­son said. “I really think that it is something that would be great to build for our campus.” 
Hans said the recent events of “Love Your Body Week” inspired her and Hudson to include the promotion of body image aware­ness in their platform. 
“We would like to work with Women’s Health on body issues around campus,” Hudson said. “They have a ton of resources that just are not really known. Also, hearing another Saint Mary’s would have more student attendance at sporting events,” Hudson said. “I feel like those giveaways are a big push for people to come out and support their peers.” 
“Posting flyers and hanging posters around campus about the events for that week and incorpo­rating the cheerleaders to make banners for the team would draw awareness to the athletes,” Hans said. “This will bring more unity to our campus, [which is] some-of sisterhood 


and commu­
nity among College students by helping girls foster relationships with their peers during their first year at Saint Mary’s. 
“Incorporating a day every semester during syllabus week where people get together and not just introduce themselves, but re­ally talk together, would bring a greater sense of sisterhood to our campus,” Hudson said. 
Hudson said she and Hans hope to create a master calendar in which students can find out about upcoming campus events. 
Since the Senate has recently been restructured, the student body must become familiar with the new duties and responsi­bilities of the organization. Hans said she hopes to express the role of the new Senate to the College community and promote student involvement. 
“Next year when we get back, we will really need to have in­formation sessions on what the Senate entails,” Hans said. “The student body needs to know what the Senate can do for them since they are unsure of what the Sen­ate actually does. It will be a great change for the whole stu­dent body, so we want everyone to know how they can get involved.” 
Hans said her affinity for her school drives her ambition to im­prove the College through student government. 
“I love Saint Mary’s and I re­ally want to make the necessary changes to our community,” Hans said. “I just hope that we are elected so that we have that opportunity to make the changes we need.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 



Parsons 
continued from page 1 
that we really thought we really could accomplish, “ Parsons said. 
In order to make their goals feasible, Parsons and Casey said they have already started work­ing with faculty to develop the 85 technology initiatives they hope to start this summer. 
“[Saint Mary’s] hired an IT company last semester to evalu­ate the technology situation on campus, and [the company] came up with a plan,” Parsons said. “Throughout the year … they’ve come up with 85 initiatives that will be launched to the student body before the end of the year. It’s a three-year plan, so next year, we really want to focus on keep­ing communication between the administration and the students on these initiatives [flowing] as they are implemented. That way, students are aware of the chang­es, and they see things happening and can appreciate them.” 
Parsons said these 85 initia­tives feature a variety of improve­ments and additions, such as updating current software and establishing a student IT intern position. 
Regardless of the outcome of the election, Parsons said she will actively assist with the imple­mentation of these initiatives next year. 
“The 85 initiatives will be com­pleted,” she said. “It’s just a mat­ter of when considering money, having a person who will be able to do it and having a person who will be able to take over the initia­tive once it is implemented.” 
Additionally, the ticket aims to empower women through a se­ries of leadership talks by current students and alumnae. Parsons and Casey developed this idea based on the current SGA leader­ship series. 
“We want to carry [the leader­ship series] into next year because we thought it was a great idea, and they have been really suc­cessful focusing more on empow­ering women — for example, how women are represented in the media and how you can change that for your personal image or how women in the workforce are presented and treated and how you can get past certain barriers,” Parsons said. “[We also hope to] bring in alumnae to share their success stories to encourage each other as a student body and as women to be there for each other as a support system.” 
The team also hopes to unify campus clubs and organizations by creating a master calendar that will broadcast daily meetings and events. 
“We want to try to find the best and most efficient way for clubs, and boards, and organizations throughout campus to integrate their events and meetings so people are aware of where they’re meeting, what time they’re meet­ing, and try to integrate more clubs working together,” Casey said. 
The calendar would create an hourly newsfeed to update stu­dents. This project would help reduce the number of emails that bombard students daily, Parsons said. 
“Hopefully, fingers crossed, that would eliminate the amount of emails that we get each day so that students really are pay­ing attention to important emails that we receive, and to centralize information to make their lives a little easier,” she said. 
Finally, the team plans to en­courage students to give back to the community by bringing ser­vice opportunities to campus. 
“As a student myself, I’ve had difficulty doing volunteer op­portunities off campus … so we thought it would be really cool to bring different organizations here to give the opportunity to other students who may not have trans­portation,” Casey said. 
Volunteer activities could in­clude anything from babysitting to joining an on-campus club with a non-profit organization, Parsons said. 
“For example, we could work with the Autism Speaks club and bring in representatives from the Logan Center or Hannah and Friends, or maybe there is a ser­vice project we can do here that we can deliver to an outside orga­nization,” Parsons said. 
Above all, Parsons and Casey said their top priority is unifying campus. 
“I think that unifying campus would encompass all [our other goals] — working together and supporting each other and open­ing that line of communication so everyone knows what’s going on,” Parsons said. “And supporting each other on campus is one way to empower and encourage each other.” 

Contact Caitlin Housley at chous01@saintmarys.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 


What’s in store for the White Sox 
As spring training has opened all across Major League Baseball, I cannot help but be excited for the upcoming season. While basketball has always been may favorite sport to watch, I have always had a deep affinity for the game of baseball. Opening Day, the All-Star Game, the trade deadline, the pennant chase, the playoffs and the World Series are all events that I look forward to each Walker Carey year. 

While I am very Sports Writer excited for baseball season, I am dreading watching my favorite team, the Chicago White Sox. My reasoning is simple: I think they are going to be terrible. Not just bad, but like 100 losses bad. At the end of last season, the White Sox former manager Ozzie Guillen decided he had enough dealing with egomaniac general man­ager Kenny Williams and the refusal of owner Jerry Reinsdorf to give him a healthy extension, so the only man­ager to lead the team to a World Series title since 1917 jumped ship and took a managerial job with the Miami Marlins. 
I was upset to see Guillen leave, but I did think that the team might have been in need of new leadership after last season’s uninspired 79-81 record. With Guillen out of the picture, I thought maybe the White Sox would go after former Boston Red Sox manager Terry Francona or highly-revered Tampa Bay Rays bench coach Dave Martinez to lead the 2012 White Sox. My thoughts were very wrong, as on Oct. 6, 2011, the team named former star third base­man Robin Ventura as its new manager. This was flabbergasting for more than one reason — the most important being that Ventura has never been a manager anywhere at any level of baseball. 
Along with the surprising manage­rial move, the White Sox made some baffling roster moves. First, the team allowed longtime ace Mark Buehrle to leave and join Guillen with the Marlins. Second, promising young closer Sergio Santos was traded to the Toronto Blue Jays for two minor leaguers with zero major league experience. The final move came on New Year’s Day when power-hitting, yet injury-prone outfield­er Carlos Quentin was moved to the San Diego Padres for two wood bats and a bag of balls. (It was actually two minor league pitchers, but you get my point.) 
Since the White Sox got rid of several key components, one would assume the team would have made moves to pick up a couple guys with solid major league experience. Well, that assumption was wrong, as the team only made one move in signing underachieving, light-hitting outfielder Kosuke Fukudome to a one-year deal. In summation, the White Sox lost Buehrle, Santos, and Quentin and gained Kosuke Fukudome. Good stuff. 
While I am dreading the upcoming season due to the disaster that I believe will occur, I know that I will still watch mostly every game and take each loss as harshly as before. Being a diehard fan can be a cruel thing and I feel as if I will experience its cruelty this baseball season like never before. 
Contact Walker Carey at      wcarey@nd.edu@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The best women for the job 
Of the two tickets running for student body president programs sound fun and may help unite the campus and vice president, the duo of juniors Maureen Parsons community, but this should not be the focus of our stu­and Meghan Casey shows the most promise for improv-dent leaders. ing the future of the Saint Mary’s Student Government Parsons and Casey also aim to strengthen Saint Mary’s Association (SGA). ties with the greater South Bend community by bringing 
The pair’s experience in student government, current more volunteer service events to campus for those who initiatives and future plans make them the best people are unable to go off campus to serve. While these activi­for the job. The ticket also proposes feasible and substan-ties may involve simple gestures such as babysitting or tial goals for improving SGA next term. building projects on campus that can be delivered to out-
Parsons is running for student body president and side organizations, the variability of their ideas showed currently serves as SGA technology commissioner, while they are willing to try new things to benefit the greater Casey is running for student body vice president and community. previously served as vice president of her class during While Parsons and Casey clarified that their focus to her freshman year. The ticket has already started plan-unify campus will directly target the needs and wants ning ways to address the needs and desires 
of the student body, they said maintaining of the campus community through new and open communication with administrative innovative ways. faculty is a key to enriching the SGA experi-
Parsons and Casey prioritized unifying ence — a reality Hans-Hudson ticket failed the campus as a top goal. While both tickets to note. Parsons said having a strong faculty running this year established a need for a adviser for different segments of SGA could more unified campus, Parsons and Casey establish a better flow of diverse ideas. established concrete goals and deadlines With a background in campus technology for achieving this goal. Meanwhile, the other ticket, issues, Parsons will also serve as a valuable asset to SGA comprised of juniors Taylor Hans and Betsey Hudson, set in addressing the ever-evolving technology needs of the broad, general goals and could not provide much infor-community. Parsons has already helped develop 85 new mation about how the team would establish and imple-technology initiatives, which she plans to help roll out ment their programs. next year. These initiatives feature ideas such as upgrad-
Parsons and Casey also clarified that their initia-ing current technology to better incorporating student tives were to help create a structure on which future voices. SGA leaders could build. Their plans outline beneficial Having observed and served under the current student programs that will help enrich the College community body administration the past year, Parsons will help academically, technologically and emotionally. Creating a facilitate an easy transition into the new SGA Senate campus student calendar, initiating alumnae leadership structure revealed this semester. Her experience with talks and establishing a mentor program are just a few the current process will give her adequate knowledge goals Parsons and Casey hope to meet in order to unify of the reform and allow her to educate the greater Saint the campus. These initiatives would also help to achieve Mary’s community on ways students can use Student Sen-another goal — to empower the women of the Saint ate to their benefit. Mary’s community. Overall, the Parsons-Casey ticket presents the stron-
While Hans and Hudson said they want to enhance gest platform in this year’s student body election. We, the “sisterhood” of Saint Mary’s if elected, they plan to The Observer Editorial Board, endorse Maureen Parsons establish this through what they coined “tradition” — and Meghan Casey for Saint Mary’s student body presi­reestablishing SYR’s and an enhanced SMC Tostal. These dent and vice president. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Loyal Daughters and Sons 
For months now, you’ve seen the banners in LaFortune, the dining halls, down Notre Dame Avenue and even on your way to class — “To Heal, To Unify and To Enlighten.” They are beautiful, concise expressions of the aims that should guide our actions both here at Our Lady’s University and in the world beyond this campus. However, it is our concrete projects and experiences that truly help us to profoundly internalize these abstractions. 
I have had the privilege to participate in this year’s production of Loyal Daughters and Sons and work toward the realization of these intentions to heal, unify and enlighten our immediate community. The scenes and mono­logues are inspired by interviews with members of the Notre Dame community about their experiences with sexuality and sexual assault. These are deeply personal topics, and many are silenced by shame, regret, confu­sion and uncertainty. But silence allows wounds to fester. Only by speaking out can we begin the arduous road to recovery. We must actively initiate this healing. 
The production also seeks to unify our community by representing the diversity that exist here. In the 20 piec­es, we succinctly cover a wide breadth of experiences and opinions. Sometimes these outlooks conflict, but any venture worthwhile requires dialogue. There is a variety of narratives and characters available for our audience members to identity with. There is no one, particular story of this community, but rather, many unique ones. 
Finally, by staging these stories, we hope to enlighten our community. Recognition of others’ anxieties, pain, doubts, joys, desires and triumphs as well as our own is what can release us from the paralysis of ignorance. If we are conscious of what is truly happening, we can begin to work each in our own ways to shape our world into a better one. 
Please come and join the journey at Carey Auditorium in Hesburgh Library this Thursday, Friday and Saturday 
at 7:30 p.m. We await our fellow Loyal Daughters and Sons. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I dream, I test my dreams against my beliefs, I dare to take risks, and I execute my vision to make those dreams come true.” 
Walt Disney US cartoonist & movie producer 
Tara Duffy
 senior Breen-Phillips Hall Feb. 29 
WEEKLY POLL 
What was the best 
part of the Oscars? 
The dresses The speeches Betting on the winners Billy Crystal 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 

Santorum’s words unnecessary, unproductive 
Of the things that we as voters ask of candidates for public office, a couple stand out among the rest. However futile our requests may be, we hope that office seekers will “tell it like it is” and main­tain a sense of civility in the process. We don’t ask Candidate X to give us a narra-John Sandberg tive of his time in the Peace Corps when he Columnist was asked to explain a past mistake. Nor do we care to hear Candidate Y publicly call her opponent a bozo. 
By these criteria, Rick Santorum is batting .500. No other GOP candidates is more of a straight talker than Santorum (with the possible exception of Newt Gin­grich, but at this point most will agree that he is a 2012 after-thought,) yet none strike the juvenile tone of the former Pennsylvania Senator either. 
Most disconcerting of all is that the frequency of these remarks by Santorum has recently increased. We will have to wait and see in the coming week or so just how big of an effect his failure to win the Michigan and Arizona primaries will have on his campaign. But if the past week is any indication of things to come, we can expect Santorum to resort to the low-minded brashness that is quickly becoming his trademark. 
After President Obama described higher education as “an economic im­perative that every family in America should be able to afford,” Santorum responded on Saturday by calling the President a “snob” because he “wants every American to go to college.” 
There are plenty of things about which to criticize President Obama. His desire to make education affordable is not one of them, and calling the man who rose from a single-parent home to the Oval Office a “snob” is not the way to do it. 
Mitt Romney is an easy political target on many levels. This makes calling him both a “joke” and a “bully” seem like a weak attempt to gain attention. Yet this is exactly what Santorum did in the days leading up to the recent primaries. Although they were far from the most vicious attacks that the campaign has seen, they were not insightful either. So why make the attacks at all? What did Santorum gain from it, and how was Romney’s momentum affected? More im-

Hedge your SYR date 
Think hedging is important only for the British gardeners and War­ren Buffets of the world? Think again, because knowingly or not, you hedge all the time. 
For example, say your dorm Grace Concelman has an SYR this weekend. You re-Options and ally want to ask Futures your crush, that dreamy guy from microbiology. We’ll call him DM for short. He’s smart, funny, athletic, etc. He’d be the perfect date. 
The only problem is that you’re not sure he’ll say yes. Maybe he’s going out of town, maybe he already volunteered to rescue abandoned puppies that night or maybe he’s just not that into you. You really want to go to the dance and don’t want to risk being left date­less. What do you do? 
You hedge. 

It’s easiest to think of hedging like insurance against a specific event that could turn out either positively or negatively. Hedging reduces the impact of a negative event by removing some of the risk. 
See, there’s another guy. You two met sometime during Frosh-O weekend and texted for about three days before you placed him squarely in the friend zone. Since then the friendship has blossomed: you had a couple of classes together, he invites you to his dorm parties and you occasionally get lunch in the dining hall. You know he’d be a fun date, but he’s just not DM. You ask FZ (friend zone) to be your backup date. 
Now, if DM says yes, you get to go to the dance with him. If he says no, you still get to go with FZ. Although it seems like a win-win for you, there are costs to every hedge. 
By asking FZ to be your backup you might have hurt his feelings. At the very least, he has to hold the evening free just in case you need him. Even if DM says yes, taking advantage of a friendship makes the success seem just a little less sweet. 
This is an example of the risk return trade-off in hedging. The hedge that reduces the risk you will be left date­less also has a cost that reduces the satisfaction you get even if the event turns out positively (your return.) 
Hedging is obviously used in the fi­nancial industry. Say you’re thinking about investing in the pizza industry because you think all of the national pizza chains are undervalued in the market. You decide to buy shares of Domino’s (DPZ) because you re­ally like the garlic powder that they sprinkle on the crust, and you think there’s a huge demand for chain arti­san pizza despite the fact that that’s an oxymoron. If the pizza market expands, you think DPZ will perform well. 
But, what if you’re wrong and the pizza market contracts? That’s where hedging comes in. You don’t want to create a perfect hedge by selling DPZ shares, because then you’ll remove all of the risk as well as all of the reward. Instead, you want to short sell shares of a company similar to DPZ, perhaps a company in the same industry, so that you remove the risk of the industry tanking but still have the opportunity to reap the reward of DPZ rising. 
You choose to short Papa John’s (PZZA) because you just don’t think that better ingredients make better pizza, and if the industry declines, then PZZA will decline the most. 
If you’re right, the pizza industry takes off, and both stocks rise, then you made money by buying DPZ and lost money by selling PZZA. If you’re wrong, the pizza industry declines, and both stocks drop, then you lost money by buying DPZ and made money by shorting PZZA. 
This is how hedge funds were origi­nally designed to operate. They would go long (buy) stocks they thought would outperform the market and go short (sell) stocks they thought would under-perform. The idea was that regardless of whether the market went up or down, they would make money. 
Nowadays, hedge funds have a va­riety of investment strategies, most of which utilize derivative instruments like options or futures to provide hedg­es. Alas, you can’t buy a DM future for Saturday’s SYR. There’s just no market for dance dates. 
Grace Concelman is a senior major­ing in finance and philosophy. She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
portantly, whose vote did Santorum win by making such silly comments? 
Case number three: Santorum re­vealed on Sunday that John F. Kennedy’s speech on the separation of church and state made him “want to throw up.” Sim­ilar to the incident regarding President Obama’s quote on higher education, San­torum again misinterpreted what was said by someone else and gave a crass response. Nevertheless, if he insisted on bashing one of the giants of U.S. history, he could have done so in a more thought-provoking and less crude manner. 
Santorum has since said that he wishes he could “have that line back” regarding the JFK speech. 
In any case, the remark provides an­other example of the diction which he is utilizing in his attempts to win votes. 
Negative politics, as unappealing as they are, persist for one reason: When done right, they work. 
Yet Rick Santorum’s style of attack is juvenile and uncalculated. His style will not work. Each time Santorum resorts 
to uncouth criticism is a wasted op­
portunity for him to reveal to voters 
the value-based, educated person that he is. It is strange to me that he doesn’t seem to have this figured out. 
In a campaign, words matter. Appear­ing educated and well-versed matters. They are not the only things that matter, but they matter nonetheless. This is why Santorum’s style of speaking falls short. His attacks on opponents are both un­necessary and unproductive. They do not reflect the intelligence required to con­vince people you’re Presidential material and they do nothing to show voters why the other candidates are unqualified. 
Blunt statements laced with play­ground-style insults may win a few seconds worth of TV time or make great viral video material. But that which is popular is not presidential. In time, perhaps soon or perhaps not until No­vember, American voters will be smart enough to tell the difference. 
John Sandberg is a sophomore political science major from Littleton, Colo. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Take it personally 
As I sat and read The Observer in South Dining Hall during a lunch break this past Monday, a fellow diner-reader at another table exclaimed to her friend, “If I were black, I would be very offended by this.” 
While acts like placing fried chicken in mailboxes associated with African American organizations are overt, purposeful and offensive acts of prejudice, the attitude implicit in statements like this are similarly ignorant. 
It seems many students have heard about this event and have expressed sorrow for those who have been directly affected by it. To view the act as insulting solely toward a specific group is to view the group as “the other,” a mindset that ob­structs the complete integration of majority and minority groups. 
Instead, I encourage everyone to take this, and all other prejudicial acts, per­sonally. Think of someone you know or admire in the targeted demographic and imagine how much it would hurt you to see their talents and character belittled by such a tasteless stunt. In this case, think of it especially as an act against persons within the Notre Dame community. In every case, consider it an offense towards someone imbued with the same human dignity as you. Take it personally, get mad and act accordingly. 
Irere Romeo Kwihangana, in his Viewpoint submission “Fried chicken does not celebrate Black History Month” (Feb. 27), detailed an incident where he heard three white students tossing around the n-word and called them out on it to no avail. If we all stood up to this kind of ignorance, instead of pretending it doesn’t affect us, this kind of behavior would likely stop. My theory: because the types of people who hold these racist attitudes are too close-minded to think intelligently for themselves, then some peer pressure in the opposite direction would help to advance us past this bigotry. 
Sarah Brenzel 
senior Walsh Hall Feb. 29 



By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 
Project 214 front man and Notre Dame junior Mike “OB” O’Brien made it clear from the start that Project 214 is not so much a musical group as a musical endeavor he began two years ago. 
“Project 214 is [not] a band,” O’Brien said. “If it were a band, it would be called Band 214.” 
After playing in a musical group in high school, O’Brien said he wanted to form a student band at Notre Dame. He started Project 214 in 2010 after discovering students did not have time to devote to a full throttle band. 
“At that point, Project 214 was focused on re­cording and writing songs, but not necessar­ily the performance aspect,” O’Brien said. “Then we did some Acousticafe, some other things and finally, we played at the Battle of the Bands [at Legends] last April. Part of the concept … is that there is no lineup of Project 214.” 
Project 214’s bassist junior Mike “Mac T” Thompson said the project is composed of O’Brien and whoever wants to come with him to perform. 
“Mike [Thompson], (junior) David [Pratt] and I have been pretty consistent through, but other people have come and gone as have been avail­able and necessitated,” O’Brien said. “They’ve helped us record [songs] or played at shows. It’s a strange concept, but works better than you [would] think it does.” 
“It’s a band with the understanding that it’s a group of people playing music, but the group of people keeps changing,” Project 214’s drummer junior Brian Gilder said. 
O’Brien, Thompson, Gilder and Pratt are the current core members of the musical project, but Gilder said this lineup could change at any mo­ment. 
O’Brien named the project after his dorm room sophomore year, where he, Thompson and Pratt frequently played music. 
“It was my room number from last year, where David and I lived together,” O’Brien said. “I live there now with Brian. [The name] had a nice ring and it made sense, especially because Mike lived down the hall last year [and this year], but Mike would come down and we would all be in Room 214 and write stuff and jam and whatever. 
“That’s where a lot of the [songs] came from. It was a very fitting name.” 
Although Project 214 does not yet have a co­hesive lineup, they have recorded some of their music with the intention of eventually releasing an EP or full-length album entitled “Thug Aim.” 
“We have eight songs [recorded],” O’Brien said. “Some of them are fully recorded, some of them are kind of halfway done. It was this trade off be­tween spending time preparing for concerts and spending time recording. You can’t really do both at the same time, and we’re all busy people.” 

Since Project 214’s lineup is constantly chang­ing and its various members have differing musi­cal interests and influences, Gilder said their mu­sic reflects the structure of the band itself. 
O’Brien said Dream Theater, King Crimson, the Styx and other ‘70s progressive rock bands influ­ence Project 214’s music. 
“Everyone brings their own influences into the equation, but there [is] also already some non­negotiable, then everyone else kind of has the freedom to add within the limits,” O’Brien said. “We’ve even chopped up parts of [songs]. This past week, we were practicing, and then we de­cided we should just chop parts out and throw extra stuff into the songs.” 
This Thursday evening will not be the first time Project 214 has taken the Legends stage. O’Brien, Thompson and Pratt performed at Legends’ Bat­tle of the Bands last April. 
“Last year, at Battle of the Bands, we performed ‘Friday’ by Rebecca Black, but the verses were done in a reggae style and the chorus was done in death metal style,” O’Brien said. 
“You can’t say we’re a 100 percent non-seri­ous band, because a non-serious band would not change time signatures every measure, but there [is] a certain degree of non-seriousness that needs to exist for us to be sane. There just has to be some fun.” 
Project 214 will take the stage at Legends with fellow student band Rednight Thursday at 10 p.m. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: Project 214 and Rednight Where: Legends When: Thursday at 10 p.m. How Much: Free Learn More: 
legendsofnotredame.org 

Project 214 and Rednight Legends 10 p.m. Free 
Check out performances by two student bands at Leg­ends tonight at 10 p.m. Proj­ect 214 returns to Legends after its Battle of the Bands performance at the venue last April. The event is free, so don’t miss out! 
Collegiate Jazz Festival Washington Hall 7 p.m. $5 
Now in its 54th year, the an­nual Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival is a highlight to the year in music. The festi­val brings together the world of college jazz’s best groups for a weekend of musical revelry. 
“The Muppets” DeBartolo 101 7 p.m. $3 
You loved them growing up, so don’t miss a chance to hang out with the Muppets all over again this weekend. Check out Jason Segel, Ker­mit, Miss Piggy and the rest of the gang in this joyous re­boot of a childhood favorite. 
“Antigona Furiosa” Philbin Theatre 
2:30 p.m. $7 
An adapatation of the classic story of “Antigone” with the “Dirty War” of Argentina, “Antigona Furiosa” is a powerful study of grief and the harrows of war. Don’t miss this highly praised production! 
By PATRICK McMANUS 
Scene Writer 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show “The Room,” as part of the Midnight Movies series Saturday. 
As a film, “The Room” fails on almost every level. The plot is largely unintelligible, the act­ing is atrocious, the dialogue is repetitive and filled with non­sequiturs and several shots are out of focus. These flaws can no doubt be traced to the film’s writer, director, producer and star, Tommy Wiseau. 
“The Room” does succeed in one respect: It is a movie that entertains and resonates with audiences. Wiseau deserves credit for that, even though it must be entirely accidental. 
Wiseau first marked the film as a drama about the relation­ship between his character Johnny and Johnny’s girlfriend Lisa (Juliette Danielle). Its ini­tial run in a few Los Angeles theaters attracted little atten­tion  until someone realized the astounding ineptitude with which the drama was assem­bled made it one of the most un­intentionally funny movies of all time. Wiseau has since claimed to be in on the joke. It’s hard to tell, though, as his interview responses can often be as con­founding as the film’s dialogue. 
“The Room” was first re­leased in 2003. Since then, mid­night showings of the movie across the country have become popular events. Attendees often dress as their favorite charac­ters, yell out their favorite lines and throw plastic spoons at the screen (in homage to an inexpli­cably recurrent framed spoon in the movie). 
Several celebrities are among those who love to laugh at “The Room.” For instance Kristin Bell and Rob Thomas report­edly snuck numerous referenc­es to “The Room” in the series “Veronica Mars.” Paul Rudd and David Wain tried to do the same with “Role Models,” but all the references were cut. On the set of “Arrested Development,” all it took was the trailer to entertain David Cross and Will Arnett. 
“The Room” is certainly a fun movie. In one scene, Lisa’s mother tells her that she has breast cancer, to which Lisa re­sponds, “Don’t worry about it” (a line that is repeated a seem­ingly infinite number of times throughout the film). The can­cer is never mentioned again. Please keep in mind that the context does nothing to explain anything about the interaction. That sort of thing happens a lot. 
In another scene, a drug deal­er accosts the creepy neighbor Denny, who serves no obvious narrative purpose, on a roof. The incident is neither prompt­ed by nor explained by the rest of the film. The best part is that it was filmed in front of a green screen, rather than on an actu­al roof, as if no regular roof was available in Los Angeles. 
“The Room” earned the des­ignation ‘The ‘Citizen Kane’ of bad movies.” Perhaps a worse film could be made if that was the intention of the filmmaker, but even then, no movie could mimic this film’s futile earnest­ness. 
Contact Patrick McManus at pmcmanu1@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: “The Room” Where: DeBartolo Performing Arts Center When: Saturday at 
11:59p.m. How Much: $6 for general admission, $3 for students 
Learn More: 
performingarts.nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

MLB needs to expand replay, protect catchers 
Baseball is late to the party. A lot. In fact, baseball has been late to the party so many times I’m surprised baseball still gets invited. 
The powers pulling the strings behind the scenes of Major League Baseball discovered email about a week ago and think change is a running fad. Nev­ertheless, the sport has taken recent steps to at least welcome the idea. 
The league reached an agreement with the Player’s Association last November to remove tobacco from the public’s eye, preventing play­ers and coaches from carry­ing tobacco packages in their uniforms during games. I think more positive changes will come. 
Instant replay might be the most obvious example of clinging to old-world tradi­tions. Calling balls and strikes on 98 mph fastballs and 12-6 curveballs is hard enough to do at home, let alone sitting in a crouch and wearing a mask for three-plus hours. Yet the subjectivity involved in deciphering what consti­tutes a strike has become so ingrained in the game, it shouldn’t be removed. Hitters like umpires with high strike zones; pitchers like umpires with low zones; yet both have to deal with umpires that have moving zones. 
But determining safe or out, fair or foul and homerun or not should not be left to the naked eye. The league has already implemented replay to questionable homeruns — it needs to expand replay’s scope to everything else. Adding a fifth and designated replay umpire in the scorer’s booth is hardly an original idea, yet it is one that would eliminate beyond the shadow of a doubt a base runner’s right to be on the bags, not to mention a number of manager tantrums and ejections. 
But baseball’s most incrimi­nating tradition is the one most likely never to change: collisions at the plate. I’ve been at AT&T Park at its loud­est, like when Barry Bonds slugged his 700th homerun into my section of the bleach-ers. But nothing compares to the silence of May 25, 2011, when I saw Buster Posey break his leg and tear three ankle ligaments after Scott Cousins of the Marlins plowed into the Giants’ catcher. It was as if someone took a vacuum to the life of that stadium, creating the silence that only comes when you know you’ve lost your franchise player for the season and maybe more. 

Two months later, Diamond­back fans lost Stephen Drew to a season-ending ankle injury sustained in a home-plate collision. Forty-one years earlier in 1970, Indi­ans fans lost a rising star in catcher Ray Fosse when Pete Rose famously rearranged his left shoulder in the 12th inning of the All-Star Game, colliding with Fosse before scoring the game-winning run for the National League. Fosse had 16 home runs at the All-Star break. In the nine years following the collision, Fosse never hit more than 12 in a full season. 
I’m tired of hearing the “It’s part of the game” argument. Head-to-hits in the NFL were part of the game. Checking to the head in the NHL was part of the game. How can a sport that employs rigorous drug tests in order to protect “the integrity of the game” undermine the protection of its players by allowing almost certain injury-inducing colli­sions? It’s inconsistent. 
From 1876 to 1926, 38 dif­ferent pitchers earned two complete victories on the same day. That means they pitched at least 18 innings over the course of a double header. But by the end of the 20th century, pitchers were throwing on four days of rest instead of three in light of career-ending throwing injuries from overuse. Own­ers and coaches demanded the protection of their pitch­ing investments, and baseball acquiesced. 
By encouraging players to slide into the plate and man­dating catchers to use swipe tags, owners and coaches are again demanding the protec­tion of their players. For a league that loathes making a change from precedent, base­ball, there’s your precedent. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
INTERNATIONAL SOCCER 
U.S. tops Italy for first time 
Associated Press 
GENOA, Italy — The United States beat Italy for the first time in 11 games over 78 years, a 1-0 victory in an ex­hibition Wednesday night on Clint Dempsey’s goal in the 55th minute. 
Dempsey took a short pass from Jozy Altidore following Michael Bradley’s cross and put a right-footed shot from just inside the penalty area just past an outstretched hand of goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon. 
Although just an exhibi­tion, it was a rare U.S. vic­tory over a world power. 
“I’d like to think that we’re closing the gap and hopefully one day we can do something special,” Dempsey said. 
It was the 25th goal in 83 international appearances for Dempsey, a veteran of two World Cups and one of the players counted on to lead the Americans in qualifying for the 2014 tournament. 
“Initially, I was going to stay where I was and have him lay it back to me,” Dempsey said. “I saw the guy was covering. So I tried to move to my right to try get open so he could play me the ball. He did a great job of holding it up, playing me, and I just tried to hit it low and hard, far post, and it went in. 
A native of Nacogdoches, Texas, who turns 29 on March 9, Dempsey has had the most accomplished sea­son by a U.S. attacking player in European soccer. With 16 goals this season for Fulham, he’s become the American career scoring leader in Eng­land’s Premier League with 43 goals. 
Dempsey also had the best 
U.S. chance in the first half, with a free kick from about 28 yards that Buffon saved with a two-handed punch. 
After returning to the World Cup for the first time in 40 years in 1990 and ad­vancing to the quarterfinals in 2002, the Americans have struggled to make additional progress. They were knocked out in the first round of the 2006 World Cup and the sec­ond round of the 2010 tour­nament, eliminated both times with defeats to Ghana. They wasted a two-goal lead against Mexico last June and lost 4-2 in he final of the CONCACAF Gold Cup, their regional championship. 
“It’s a work in progress, trying to get there,” Dempsey said. “It was a little bit of workout tonight, but we got the result.” 
The loss was particularly deflating for eighth-ranked Italy, a four-time World Cup champion preparing for the start of the European Cham­pionship in June. The No. 31 Americans, who are get­ting ready for their opening World Cup qualifier in June, had been 0-7-3 against Italy and had been outscored 32-4. 
Italy dominated for stretch­es but the American defense held and the Azzurri were called for offsides nine times. 
With retired baseball star Mike Piazza watching from the stands alongside former 
U.S.
 forward Brian McBride, the Americans won their fourth straight match to im­prove to 5-4-1 under Jurgen Klinsmann, who took over as 

U.S.
 coach from Bob Bradley last summer. 

It was a measure of per­sonal revenge for Klins­mann, the former German World Cup great. Germany, then coached by Klinsmann, lost to Italy in the 2006 World Cup semifinals and the Az­zurri went on to win the title. 

U.S.
 goalkeeper Tim How­ard had a big kick save in the fifth minute. Italy nearly tied 



the score in injury time when Riccardo Montolivo’s shot went past a post. 
Italy lost in Genoa for the first time since 1924. The previous time the Azzurri played at Stadio Luigi Fer­raris was a match stopped in the seventh minute by crowd trouble. Italy was awarded a 3-0 win over Serbia in a Euro qualifier. 
With the Americans wear­ing new road jerseys in blue with white sleeves, Klins­mann had most of his regu­lars back following victories over Venezuela and Panama while playing with a backup squad. He had hoped to be able to pair Dempsey with Landon Donovan for the first time since taking over as coach, but Donovan missed the match because of bron­chitis. 
Italy had its own personnel problem, especially up front where it was missing injured forwards Giuseppe Rossi and Antonio Cassano. Manches­ter City striker Mario Balo­telli was left of the squad because of his temper and unpredictability. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR RENT  PERSONAL  WANTED  Brian Chavez: I’m gonna miss the heat.  Boobie Miles: I get straight A’s. I’m  CHECK OUT TOMORROW’S WOMEN’S BASKETBALL INSIDER  
a athlete.  
Don Billingsley: I’m gonna miss  CHECK OUT TOMORROW’S  
FURNISHED REMODELED  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  the lights.  Reporter: In what subject?  BENGAL BOUTS INSIDER  
RANCH  Artist needed for children’s book/  
Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame  program  Brian Chavez: Yeah, me too. Stay  Boobie Miles: Hey, there’s only one  You should also say goodbye to  
10 minute walk  has many resources in place to  low boys, keep those feet moving  subject. It’s football.  the one and only Douglas Farmer.  
assist you. If you or someone you  Today marks his second-to-last  
2 bedroom  love needs confidential support  Contact mkarle@alumni.nd.edu for  Don Billingsley: Hey Chavez! Be  official day as Editor-in-Chief, and  
or assistance, please call Sr.  more information.  perfect.  his last effective one.  
574-309-3758  Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more  Boobie Miles: Y’all wanna win? Put  
information, visit ND’s website at:  Brian Chavez: You be perfect.  Boobie in.  It’s Bruno’s Night, everyone. Get  
rmfopen@gmail.com  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  Don Billingsley: See you Mike.  excited.  

— 

— 

WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE

THE LONDON EXPRESS LEE HAGGENJOS and ALEx GRISWOLD 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 
Thursday, March 1, 2012 







