The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 7 | WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2012  | ndsmcobserver.com 
Initiative to trim University budget 
Strategic Funding Committee pursues creative opportunities to increase revenue, savings 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
news editor 

when university president Fr. John Jenkins announced the campus-wide advancing our vision initiative in February 2011, he challenged the strategic Funding committee (sFc) to identify internal changes that could generate about $20 to $40 million in savings for the university’s budget. 
at the time, Jenkins asked the notre dame community to assess its financial needs as “a way to look inward to iden­tify resources to advance notre dame’s aspirations,” according to the initiative’s purpose. 
Twenty months later, after the committee analyzed more than 100 potential opportunities for increasing revenue and savings, that goal is taking shape on cam­pus without any job or pay cuts. 
linda Kroll, associate vice president for the office of budget and planning, said the goal of advancing our vision was to de­termine the “best and most ap­propriate” uses for funds already included in the university’s $1 billion annual budget. 
“we asked ourselves, ‘what are creative ways and ideas we can come up with to look at re­sources that are already here?” Kroll said. “Then we can use those resources to do things that we’d like to do long-term for the university, whether it’s enhanc­ing financial aid for students, developing new programs or building facilities for emerging needs.” 
between February and august 2011, the committee, 
JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 
which included executive vice president John affleck-graves and provost Tom burish, iden­tified the internal changes that would meet Jenkins’ challenge to repurpose what amounted to two to four percent of the budget. 
“[advancing our vision] is re­ally a program of asking people to do things differently and 
see vision PAGE 6 


asa honors professor’s career 
By DAN BROMBACH 
news writer 
Throughout sociology pro­fessor christian smith’s ca­reer, he has written on the influence of morality on human life. This summer, the american sociological 

association (asa) honored smith for his influence as an academic on his own field. 
The altruism, morality and solidarity section of the asa selected smith as the recipient of its distinguished career award in July. The honor, which is awarded an­nually, recognizes a scholar who has significantly contrib­uted to the section’s areas of focus. 
“over the course of my ca­reer, the main thing covered in many of the books i’ve written has been the impor­tance of morality in people’s actions,” smith said. “i think the award acknowledges this emphasis of mine on morality in human lives.” 
as he reflected on his career, smith said he is most proud of his work analyzing and de­bunking conventional models of human personhood. 
“in the different work 
see award PAGE 5 



Students explore hundreds of clubs at Activities Night 

By CAROLINE SCHUITEMA and CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writers 
hundreds of students swarmed the Joyce center Fieldhouse on Tuesday night with pens at the ready to sign up for a number of clubs and organizations that attracted their attention. 
The 2012 activities night was coordinated by the student activities office (sao), and co-sponsored by recsports. collaboration for the event in­volved the club coordination council (ccc) as well. 
“each table is responsible for bringing their own stuff,” ricky bevington, an intern for sao, said. “such equipment includes banners, computers, sign-up sheets, and poster boards. some clubs additionally use t-shirts, candy, and magnets in order to 

see acTiviTies PAGE 5 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


News Sports 

Jillian barwick Joe wirth bridget Feeney Joseph monardo sarah swiderski brian hartnett 

Graphics Scene 
Jaqueline o’neill Troy mathew 


Photo Viewpoint 

suzanna pratt meghan Thomassen 


Corrections 

The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

If you could do a duet with any singer, who would it be? 

Megan Daly 
senior off campus 
“carrie underwood.” 

Anel Terron 
senior welsh Family hall 
“michael buble.” 


Bri Bocker 
freshman walsh hall 
“lead singer of air dubai.” 



Genette Gaffney 
senior 
walsh hall 
“michael Jackson.” 
Matt Peters 
senior 
sorin college 
“hannah montana.” 
Rachel Chisausky 
senior 
mcglinn hall 
“william hung.” 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Wednesday 
Reading by William O’Rourke 
Hammes Bookstore 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. Personal reflections on American life. 
Prayer Service 
Grotto 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Community prays for college students. 
Thursday 
Cassatt Exhibit 
Snite Museum 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Showing of impressionist paintings. 
Architecture Exhibit 
Bond Hall 11 a.m. Sketches by Brian Kelly, ND ‘81. 
Friday 
Women’s Volleyball 
Joyce Center 7 p.m.-9 p.m. ND vs. UAB 
Women’s Soccer
 Alumni Stadium 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. ND vs. Santa Clara 
Saturday 
Vigil Mass 
Basilica 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Music by the Women’s Liturgical Choir. 
Sunday 
Women’s Volleyball 
Joyce Center 2 p.m.-4 p.m. ND vs. Eastern Kentucky 



SCC sets a ‘knockout’ Guinness world record 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
if at first you don’t succeed, try, try again. 
last year’s sophomore class council (scc) kept this phrase in mind the past spring semester when they attempted to break the guinness world record for largest tournament of knockout basketball, a feat Keough hall had fallen short of in the fall of 2011. 
The scc achieved their goal march 2 when 433 people partic­ipated in the tournament in the Joyce athletic and convocation center (Jacc). The results were recently certified by guinness. 
Junior Jake Frego, a member of last year’s scc, said the council held the event to unite the sopho­more class with a common goal. 
“last year, one of the objectives of the scc athletic committee was to help our class to realize a noteworthy achievement, and to have a great deal of fun while doing so,” he said. “we wanted the achievement to bring to­gether our classmates and offer them some sort of subsequent recognition.” 
The council arranged with the men’s basketball team to hold the tournament immediately after the men’s last home game against providence college. 
Keough hall rector Fr. pete mccormick, who spearheaded the attempt in the fall, said the collaboration helped the scc succeed where Keough had come short. 
“They coordinated this whole event with men’s basketball and the community at large, and that was the reason we were able to make this happen,” he said. 
after the players exited, 
“(The SCC) hoped to demonstrate that if Notre Dame students unite behind an effort, they can achieve something remarkable — even a Guinness World Record.” 
Jake Frego 
member of last year’s SCC 
mccormick said everyone in the stands was invited to go down to the court and join the tournament. 
Frego said the participants in­cluded both students and mem­bers of the notre dame and south bend communities. 
Throughout the tournament, the council took steps to ensure 
paid adverTisemenT 
guinness would validate the at­tempt if they broke the record. 
“we were required to inform guinness of our record attempt and had to submit a very detailed description,” Frego said. 
on the day of the record at­tempt, mccormick said every participant was asked to sign a waiver, and the event was recorded. 
guinness also required a counter who sat at the foul line to double-check that the names on the waivers were legitimate, and two witnesses not associated with the university to verify the event. 
despite the success of the event, mccormick said he does not anticipate an immediate at­tempt to exceed the record. 
“For now there are no plans, but it’s one of those things that if some other school would try to break it or actually break it, then i would expect that we would try to regain that record,” he said. 
The event proved to be an ex­traordinary achievement for the class, Frego said. 
“we hoped to demonstrate that if notre dame students unite be­hind an effort, they can achieve something remarkable — even a guinness world record,” he said. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
bavo hosts kickoff picnic 

By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
belles against violence office (bavo) welcomed saint mary’s students back to campus with a picnic at their kickoff event Tuesday night. 
instituted in april by the college, bavo addresses the issues of sexual assault, rela­tionship violence and stalking, connie adams, assistant direc­tor of bavo, said. 
“our three primary goals in bavo are to provide support and advocacy services to stu­dents who experience violence or abuse or know someone who has experienced violence or abuse,” adams said. “second, we want to provide educational and prevention programming on campus. The kickoff event is one example of this goal. The third is to offer training oppor­tunities to students, faculty and staff to better respond to and prevent violence and abuse as it impacts our community.” 
sophomore linsey  mcmullen, a member of the student advisory committee, was sta­tioned behind the resource table, which held a multitude of information about bavo and the organizations it partners with in the community. 
“we are really trying to raise awareness and promote educa­tion about the issues women face everyday when it comes to violence,” she said. 
spread across the resource ta­ble were bavo bracelets, bavo pins and pamphlets from local resources on sexual assault and violence that were given away to students who attended the event. 
“There are many different things going on at our kickoff event,” mcmullen said. “we have our clothesline project set up so that people can decorate different colored shirts by writ­ing a message to stand against violence. each color represents the different forms of violence that affects women.” 
meghan casey, student government association (sga) vice-president, also participated in bavo’s kick­off event with a craft table.
  “what sga is doing is a project for support a belle, love a belle in which we have girls sign a pe­tition stating that they pledge to be an advocate for all belles,” she said. 
casey said the signature of each student shows others that there are resources at saint mary’s for everyone to access. 
“no one should ever feel alone here,” she said. “our craft table is where girls can write out anonymous letters which will be handed out at support a belle, love a belle week. The notes are love letters to encourage a more positive outlook to the students that read them.” 
also co-sponsored by sodeXo Food services, the kickoff event provided students a change of scenery from the dining hall with a picnic on the library green. 
“both sga and sodeXo strongly believe in the mission of bavo. our kickoff event is a wonderful opportunity to col­laborate,” adams said. “These partnerships allow bavo to in­teract with a wider range of stu­dents and further demonstrate that violence is not one of our community values.” 
adams and bavo, along with sga and sodeXo, wanted to hold a meaningful event with a fun atmosphere for the students. 
“These activities combined allow students to become en­gaged with bavo in a new way,” she said. “The goal of these events is to have students inter­act with our cause in new and exciting ways, and a picnic out­side with a photo booth, craft tables and shirt painting are great opportunities for bavo to connect with the community.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




sculpture garden under construction 
By CHRIS BARNES 
news writer 
The snite museum of art is beginning construction on the notre dame sculpture garden located on the west side of campus between the irish green and the compton Family ice arena. 
charles r. loving, the director and curator of the george rickey sculpture archive at the snite, said that an appreciation of the arts played a role in driving the construction of this new feature on campus. 
“Through the sculpture gar­den, we hope to create an im­portant artistic program for both campus and community audiences,” loving said. “This beautiful site at notre dame’s community entrance could serve as a future campus fine arts district.” 
The presence of the sculp­ture garden on campus could catalyze the construction of facilities on campus devoted to the appreciation of fine arts, loving said. 
“some folks on campus would one day like to add a new art museum building, new art, art history and de­sign building and a new music building to that region of cam­pus that already features the debartolo performing arts center,” loving said.  “This project should regain momen­tum for the snite museum staff to develop funds for a new art museum building to be con­structed at this location.” 


doug marsh, the university architect, said that the gar­den’s beauty and location would allow visitors the op­portunity for reflection. 
“The sculpture garden will provide a place for walking and contemplation amid a naturally distinctive outdoor space,” marsh said.  “its loca­tion between the irish green and the compton Family ice arena is a unique outdoor space given its change in to­pography and grassland con­text.  a storm water retention basin that serves as a water feature further adds to the lo­cation’s artistry.” 
The distinct image created from when the plants within the garden filter the sun’s rays served as further reason for the site’s selection, loving said. 
“The perfect quantity of light allowed through the canopy of trees will be retained with the construction of the sculpture garden,” loving said.  “This effect will celebrate the cycli­cal wonder of nature by sym­bolizing notre dame’s four seasons.” 
loving said that the art within the garden would shift on a rotational basi, with the first installment of the col­lection, which highlights the natural attraction of the land­scape, bearing the platitude, ‘reclamation of our nature’. 
“landscape architect michael van valkenburgh has specified the planting of indigenous trees and shrubs, as well as prairie grass, to re­turn the site to what it might have appeared at the founding of notre dame,” loving said. “The sculptures selected for the first exhibit should speak to the beauty and power of nature, as well as to human­kind’s universal quest for spir­itual transcendence.” 
The architecture present within the park spans a wide spectrum of images, both real and imaginary, loving said. 
“The sculptures are both representational and ab­stract,” loving said.  “They are essentially of the human-scale, and they are all by mod­ern or contemporary artists.” 
marsh said that the university has invested much effort in designing the sculpture garden’s plans and that financial support for its construction has been widespread. 
“This project has been in the active planning and de­sign process for approximate­ly the last year,” marsh said. “its funding has been drawn from a series of gifts from individuals.” 
The building contractor re­sponsible for planning out and instituting the garden was se­lected on the basis of financial practicality, marsh said. 
“a local firm, gibson-lewis llc, was the low bidder on the project and, thus, awarded the construction contract,” marsh said. 
loving said that although the building aspects of the sculpture garden will be com­pleted in a few months’ time, the area’s natural features would not come to fruition for an extended period. 
“construction of the park has just begun and is sched­uled to be completed in november 2012,” loving said. “of course, it will take years for the trees and plants to fully mature.” 
Contact Chris Barnes at cbarnes4@nd.edu 
williams said.  “it depends on what to do.” 
“i certainly wasn’t antici-
Activities 
Award 
what i have time for.” marino said starting a club was 
pating it,” smith said. “There 
conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 
older students enjoyed the intense but seeing the results in 
are awards out there that you 
benefits of focus and hindsight action will be fun.students in 
think, ‘i could win that some-

lure in more students.” when attending activities night charge of other booths used cre­
i’ve done, i think a lot of my day,’ but i wasn’t really think-

with 234 clubs, 34 commu-this year. ative tactics to make sure their 
theorizing has challenged or ing about this one, so it was a 

nity organizations and 27 special “i’m looking for things that club attracted attention. 
critiqued mainstream socio-true honor.” 

guest tables present, some stu-would look good on a résumé, like “last year i yelled at people,” 
logical models of human be-smith said he was not able 

dents may seem overwhelming service or leadership positions,” senior Jane park, a representative 
ings,” smith said. “i’m proud to attend the august ceremo­

to some, but to others it’s a rite of sophomore laura cronin said. at the unchained melodies table, 
of challenging these assump-ny in person, instead sending 

initiation to campus life. “i’m not going to sign up for 50 said. “i stood up on a chair and 
tions and trying to provide al-a notre dame graduate stu­

“activity night makes me feel clubs. i’m going to try to be more yelled. aside from that, we have 
ternatives i think are better.” dent to accept the award in his 

like i belong,” freshman dale selective and actually go to the oreos and hershey kisses.” 
The award put his life’s work place. 

lobo said. “i signed up for around meetings.” both food and noise seemed to 
in perspective, smith said, but “i was moving into town 

15 clubs,” he said. sophomore diego lopez was be popular choices when it came 
here, into a new house, and 

“The main purpose of the night also looking for specific campus to luring students to tables. 
i just couldn’t travel,” smith 

is to help students get involved,” organizations, rather than sign-circle K distributed packs of 
“Teaching is one of said. “i apologized profusely, 

david mattingly, a program coor-ing up for anything that looked ramen noodles at their station, 
but it was just impossible at the 
the greatest joys 

dinator for the student activities interesting. while camp Kesem members 
time.” 

office, said. “we want to expose “i want to look at clubs that i’ve sang along to britney spears 
of my life. I wish I he is currently studying the 

them.” seen on campus, since i’ve seen songs.climbing club member 
could do it more religious and spiritual lives of 

with organizations ranging what they do and i’m interested margeaux prinster distributed 
young americans, and he said 
often.” 

from gluten Free nd to the irish in their movement,” lopez said. cups of granola to students to per-
he intends to launch a new 
Christian Smith 

club and the nordic ski club of mike marino, another sopho-suade them to stop at the table. 
project on parenting in the 
Sociology professor 

notre dame, students had a diffi-more at notre dame, returned to however, attracting students is 
near future. however, smith 

cult time choosing which booths activities night in a different role. only half the battle. now their fo­
said he hopes his work on per-

at which to spend their time. as president of the newly formed cus turns to convincing students 
sonhood will become his pro­

“There’s so much stuff to do hockey club, he spoke of the that their group is fun, engaging 
it has not altered his concrete fessional legacy. 

here,” freshman mike Zaleski work it took to create a new club at and worth the time investment. 
priorities as a researcher and “in a decade, the youth and 

said. “i have already signed up for notre dame. “The girl who was in charge 
professor. religion stuff will likely be out-

engineers without borders and “we did a lot over the summer. of the listserv last year sent out 
“it helped create a kind of dated,” smith said. “ideally, my 

polish club.” we found a coach and joined climbing jokes with the emails,” 
background awareness that theories of human personhood 

elizabeth stachnik, a fresh-the acha (american collegiate prinster said. 
all the research one does ul-will still be influencing people 

man at saint mary’s, agreed with hockey association),” marino but the people who are genu­
timately adds up into a larger after i’m dead.” 

Zaleski about the large number of said. inely interested in a student 
project that can have some in-moving forward, smith said 

clubs present at activities night. marino said coach bill murray group come regardless of funny 
fluence, but didn’t change any-he hopes to shed some of his 

“There are so many. my mind comes to notre dame with exten-emails. 
thing day to day,” smith said. administrative responsibilities 

is blown right now,” she said. “my sive experience. “it’s basically on them,” 
“i’m still focused on finishing and spend more time teaching 

friends and i are planning to talk “coach murray worked with prinster said. “we want people 
projects and not getting buried notre dame undergraduates. 

to representatives of at least 10 the hockey team at indiana who want to be there.” 
by piles of work.” “Teaching is one of the great 

different student groups.” university-purdue university 
receiving the distinguished joys of my life,” he said. “i wish 

Freshman matthew williams Fort wayne for the last six to Contact Caroline Schuitema 
career award from the asa i could do it more often.” 

also left his name at several tables. seven years,” he said. “he came at cschuite@nd.edu and 
was an unexpected and deeply 

“i’ll probably sign up for some over and was working with me all Carolyn Hutyra at 
gratifying experience, smith Contact Dan Brombach at 

and maybe do one or two,” summer long so we could know chutyra@nd.edu 
said. dbrombac@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Vision range from the installation of a positions to make sure our peo-employees and students. vision, Kroll said the university voice-over ip phone system and ple resources are aligned to be “The leadership of the will now monitor the success 
conTinued From page 1 

motion-activated sensors on prepared to leverage services for university charges us with be-and outcomes of new programs, conserve resources where they light switches to the promotion the future.” ing good stewards of all the fi-and determine whether they had the ability to do that,” Kroll of web-based conferencing ser-Kroll said human resources nancials, the tuition dollars,” matched projections and esti­said. “as an institution, we’re vices and the improvement of considered the responsibili-Kocovski said. “we need to make mates and track expectations in looking to recapture resources printer efficiency. ties of employees in any given sure that we do that and commit the future. that were saved so we can move areas of particular focus were position. them to the people.” but as universities across the university forward.” travel, procurement, food and “They make sure the em-one initiative that achieved the country assess their eco-
Kroll said Jenkins and the sFc beverage, printing, technol-ployee’s work is logical and puts this goal was the recent con-nomic and financial situations, appealed to notre dame depart-ogy, the university’s libraries, them on a trajectory of career struction of the notre dame Kocovski said the unified effort ments, employees and the sFc 
progression,” she said. “we need wellness center, which pro-by the notre dame community working group for potential sav­
“I probably haven’t to make sure people feel valued, vides primary care, laboratory to search for internal solutions is ings ideas. The working group, 
seen greater that they are doing valuable services and a pharmacy to all unprecedented. headed by affleck-graves, then 
work and that they’re directly employees and graduate student “i probably haven’t seen 
collaboration 

contributing to the university’s families, Freeman said. human greater collaboration between examined each idea and ana­
between 

mission.” resources also developed a re-departments across campus,” for a favorable return based on 
lyzed its feasibility and potential 

departments advancing our vision’s initia-tirement incentive window as he said. “everyone is trying to the investments of time, money 
across campus. tives also helped improve em-part of advancing our vision. see how to make those dollars and energy required to imple-
Everyone is trying ployee services without making “The wellness center was de-stretch, so that collaboration has ment a given change. 
any pay or employment cuts in signed to save health care costs gone a long way.” 
to see how to make 
“several subcommittees were 

the process, Tammy Freeman, but at the same time provide Freeman said the university’s 
those dollars 

director of talent management better services to employees,” commitment to its vision and perts who could go deeper into 
formed with subject matter ex-

stretch, so that and human resources strategy, Freeman said. “[The retirement mission as a top-tier research the analysis of a specific type 
said. in addition, there was no incentive window] was actu-university with a catholic char-
collaboration has 

decline in hiring this year. ally somewhat positive because acter has also made the initia­of change,” Kroll said. “That 
gone a long way.” 

“at other universities, in-people who were thinking about tive a success. working group before moving 
analysis would go back up to the 

Mark Kocovski cluding harvard and stanford, retiring got kind of a bonus to go That approach is driven by the onto the oversight committee, 
Senior human resources things are much more severe,” ahead and make the decision to unmatched spirit of notre dame who then voted on the ideas that 
consultant Freeman said. “people did lose retire.” and the unity of everyone on seemed the most appropriate jobs. even among private uni-Kroll said one of the only areas campus behind a common vi­and would have the highest re-employee benefits and waste versities, i think we’re pretty in which benefits were reduced sion of the university, Kroll said. turn potential for getting to the reduction, as well as process im-unique in the approach we’ve for employees was in purchas-“notre dame is a special place, [$20 to $40 million] goal.” provement and organizational tried to take. ing football season tickets: so you can get people really mo-
Jenkins reviewed the final rec-structure review, Kroll said. “in looking at how we use our employees no longer receive the tivated to do what’s best for the ommendations for the initiative “The office of continuous resources, we haven’t cut any 20 percent discount as they did institution,” she said. “They’re last fall, and he announced in process improvement has been of our training budget for staff. before. willing to put their personal de­september 2011 that the com-working with departments to we’re continuing those pro-“Football is in high demand partments and interests aside to mittee had identified at least $30 break down their work process-grams and continuing to devel-and people want access to it,” make notre dame the best it can million in recurring funds that es and rebuild them to get rid of op people, so our priorities have Kroll said. “employees will still be. That spirit was very much a could be redirected inside the any inefficiencies or redundant stayed intact.” receive a discount in that the part of this program, even if we budget. steps,” she said. “The office of senior human resources con-season ticket rights fee non-were asking people to change 
Kroll said many of the recom-human resources is also part-sultant mark Kocovski said his employees pay to buy tickets is the way they do things.” mended changes have already nering with leaders of various department viewed advancing waived for employees.” been implemented. The pro-departments to look at organi-our vision as a means of im-as more programs are imple-Contact Kristen Durbin at grams to economize the budget zational structures of employee proving the university for both mented as part of advancing our kdurbin@nd.edu 
Hurricane Issac hits southern Louisana coast 
casinos. by late Tuesday, more 
Associated Press 
than 200,000 homes and busi­

new orleans — nesses had lost power. hurricane isaac spun into the ed rappaport, deputy direc­southern louisiana coast late tor of the national hurricane Tuesday, sending floodwaters center, said isaac’s core would surging and unleashing fierce pass west of new orleans with winds as residents hunkered winds close to 80 mph and down behind boarded-up win-head for baton rouge. dows. new orleans calmly “on this course, the hurri­waited out another storm on cane will gradually weaken,” the eve of hurricane Katrina’s rappaport said Tuesday night seventh anniversary, hoping from the miami-based cen­the city’s strengthened levees ter. he said gusts could reach will hold. about 100 mph at times, espe­
isaac, a massive storm span-cially at higher levels which ning nearly 200 miles from its could damage high-rise build-center, made landfall at about ings in new orleans. 
6:45 p.m. near the mouth of the as isaac neared the city, mississippi river. but it was there was little fear or panic. zeroing in on new orleans, with new orleans’ airport about 75 miles to the north-closed, tourists retreated to west, turning streets famous hotels and most denizens of a Katrina-like event, but re-a new orleans levee system young, who lives in a new, for all-hours celebrations into coastline that has witnessed member there are things about bolstered after the catastroph-two-story home built to re-ghost boulevards. countless hurricanes decided a category 1 storm that can ic failures during hurricane place the one destroyed by 
The storm drew intense to ride out the storm. kill you,” new orleans mayor Katrina. but in a city that has Katrina, said she wasn’t wor­scrutiny because of its timing “isaac is the son of mitch landrieu said, urging already weathered hurricane ried about the levees. 
— just before the anniversary abraham,” said margaret people to use common sense gustav in 2008, calm prevailed. “if the wind isn’t too rough, of the hurricane that devastat-Thomas, who was trapped for and to stay off any streets that “i feel safe,” said pamela i can stay right here,” she said, ed that city, while the first ma-a week in her home in new may flood. young, who settled in to her tapping on her wooden living jor speeches of the republican orleans’ broadmoor neighbor-Tens of thousands of people home in the lower 9th ward room coffee table. “if the water national convention went on hood by Katrina’s floodwaters, were told to leave low-lying ar-— a neighborhood devas-comes up, i can go upstairs.” in Tampa, Fla., already delayed yet chose to stay put this time. eas, including 700 patients of tated by Katrina — with dog while far less powerful than and tempered by the storm. “it’s a special name that means louisiana nursing homes, but princess and her television. Katrina, isaac posed simi­
while many residents stayed ‘god will protect us’.” officials decided not to call for “everybody’s talking ‘going, lar political challenges, a re-put, evacuations were ordered officials, chastened by mass evacuations like those going,’ but the thing is, when minder of how the storm seven in low-lying areas of louisiana memories and experience, ad-that preceded Katrina, which you go, there’s no telling what years ago became a symbol and mississippi, where of-vised caution. packed 135 mph winds in 2005. will happen. The storm isn’t of government ignorance and ficials closed 12 shorefront “we don’t expect a isaac also promised to test going to just hit here.” ineptitude. 



Alaska stockpiles food, prepares for disaster 
Associated Press 
Juneau, alaska — alaska is known for pioneering, self-reliant residents who are ac­customed to remote locations and harsh weather. despite that, gov. sean parnell worries a major earthquake or volcanic eruption could leave the state’s 720,000 residents stranded and cut off from food and supply lines. his answer: build giant warehouses full of emergency food and supplies, just in case. 
For some in the lower 48, it may seem like an extreme step. but parnell says this is just alaska. 
in many ways, the state is no different than the rest of america. most people buy their groceries at stores, and rely on a central grid for power and heat. but, unlike the rest of the lower 48, help isn’t a few miles away. when a fall storm cut off nome from its final fuel supply last winter, a russian tanker spent weeks breaking through thick ice to reach the remote town. 
weather isn’t the only thing that can wreak havoc in alaska, where small planes are a pre­ferred mode of transportation and the drive from seattle to Juneau requires a ferry ride and 38 hours in a car. The state’s worst natural disaster was in 1964, when a magnitude-9.2 

earthquake and resulting tsu­nami killed 131 people and dis­rupted electrical systems, water mains and communication lines in anchorage and other cities. 
“we have a different motiva­tion to do this, because help is a long ways away,” said John madden, alaska’s emergency management director. 
The state plans two food stockpiles in or near Fairbanks and anchorage, two cities that also have military bases. construction on the two stor­age facilities will begin this fall, and the first food deliveries are targeted for december. The goal is to have enough food to feed 40,000 people for up to a week, including three days of ready-to-eat meals and four days of bulk food that can be prepared and cooked for large groups. To put that number into per­spective, alaska’s largest city, anchorage, has about 295,000 people, according to the u.s. census bureau, and Juneau, its third largest, about 31,000. 
it’s not unusual for states that routinely experience hur­ricanes or other large-scale disasters to have supplies like water, ready-to-eat meals, cots and blankets. but alaska is in­terested in stocking food with at least a five-year shelf life that meets the nutrition, health 
paid adverTisemenT 
and cultural requirements of the state’s unique demograph­ics. That means, as part of the effort, trying to incorporate cultural foods like salmon for alaska natives as well as foods that would be more common in urban areas, state emergen­cy management spokesman Jeremy Zidek said. 
an estimated 90 percent of commodities entering alaska are delivered through the port of anchorage. air service is also a critical link to the outside world and generally the only way to reach many rural communities. a volcanic blast emitting a large amount of smoke and ash could disrupt supply lines by air and water for an extended period, madden said, and an earth­quake could knock out airport runways or ports. Those are just some of the disasters that might require emergency supplies. 
parnell has made disaster readiness a priority of his ad­ministration. his spokeswoman said he has experienced first­hand the devastation of natu­ral disasters, including heavy flooding that knocked some buildings off foundations in eagle in 2009, when he was lieu­tenant governor, and the Joplin, mo., tornado last year. parnell and his wife visited Joplin with members of the relief organiza­tion samaritan’s purse. 
Families question fundraising efforts 

Associated Press 
aurora, colo. —  anguished family members of some of the colorado theater shooting vic­tims lashed out at a fundrais­ing campaign Tuesday, saying it collected more than $5 mil­lion “using pictures and names of our murdered loved ones” but so far has given no more than $5,000 each to families facing bills for medical treat­ment, travel and other expense from the attack. 
The families also said they’ve been shut out of decisions on how the money should be spent and that fundraisers were un­responsive to their questions and suggestions. 
“when you generate dona­tions for a fund called ‘the aurora victim relief Fund’ us­ing pictures and names of our murdered loved ones, it would stand to reason the fund is for victims of the aurora shoot­ing,” said Tom Teves, whose son alex was one of 12 people killed in the July 20 shoot­ings. another 58 people were wounded, and many of them face long recoveries or perma­nent disability. 
at a sometimes-emotional news conference, Teves read a seven-page statement de­manding the fundraisers give the victims and their families a say in how the money is used and questioning why so far only a relatively small portion, $350,000, was being distribut­ed to the victims. 
Teves said the statement was on behalf of 11 families. eighteen other people crowded onto a small platform behind him, some dabbing their eyes with tissues, clasping hands or leaning on each other. 
The community First Foundation, asked by gov. John hickenlooper to operate the relief fund, said on its web­site it has raised just over $5 million for the aurora victim relief Fund. The foundation announced on aug. 17 that it would give $350,000 to the colorado organization for victim assistance to distribute among the surviving victims and the families of those who died. earlier, it said another $100,000 was given to 10 non­profit groups. 
marla J. williams, presi­dent the community First Foundation, said a gag order imposed by arapahoe county district Judge william blair sylvester made it difficult to find all the victims and their families. 
she said a group has been set up to recommend how to spend the donations but no victims’ representatives have been cho­sen yet. 
“i don’t know who repre­sents the victims. There are a number of people who were involved,” she said, adding that the group at Tuesday’s news conference did not represent all the victims. 
williams said she worries that Tuesday’s statement will give donors second thoughts. 
“i’m sad because i think there are people who have been very generous and contributors who might think their money has not been used wisely,” she said. 
The 37-year-old community First Foundation supports community programs in the metropolitan denver area. 
nancy lewis, executive director of the colorado organization for victim assistance, said the victims and the agencies involved want the same thing: “They want healing for all the crime victims.” 
she said sylvester’s gag order prevented her from comment­ing further. 
sylvester issued an order on aug. 16 barring the organiza­tion from releasing names and contact information for the victims. The order does not ap­pear to place any other restric­tions on the group. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

‘Zoolander’ pondering 

Ankur Chawla 
scene writer 

in the fall of 2001, a movie premiered that expanded the boundaries of human thought and shined an introspective light on everyone who had the pleasure of see­ing it. it’s not a far stretch to say this film changed my life. of course i am talking about the timeless classic, “Zoolander.” now, in this column it is not my intention to discuss the film’s deep commentary on the fashion industry, nor its political un­dertones against child labor and kung fu. i want to discuss derek’s internal struggle and search for identity to which all of us can relate. 
after spending much of his career at the top of the male modeling world, derek found himself being replaced by a newer, hotter hansel. when hansel won the “male model of the year” award over derek, the internal struggle commenced. peering into a puddle on the side of the road, derek asks, “who am i?” when his reflection only responds with, “i don’t know,” and a goofy face, he realizes he had a lot of pondering to do. 
seeing a new class of freshmen here on campus, it’s hard not to feel the same way or to draw a parallel. coming into the university of notre dame, each of us were the best and brightest from our respective hometowns and high schools. we were the “male model of the year,” if you will. but as we have either recently started, are moving through or finish­ing up our time here at notre dame, we are going through the same process of forming and reforming ourselves and our identity. 
in my time here at college, i’ve been a man of many hats (pun intended, i have a shelf with dozens of them). From the man who likes cupcakes way too much to The observer’s expert film critic, i’ve taken on many roles, names and concepts of who i am, and i’m sure you have too. when asked to tell people about myself, i jump to my list of activities, grade and major, maybe adding that i love to bake and cook. still the list feels hollow and incom­plete, even with the addition of the roles and traits i’ve come to be known by. 
i’m not one to, nor am i one you’d want to, be offering an existential analysis on who we are as humans. but i will say to be sure there is more behind being the guy who makes crepes on sundays and can quote “scrubs” while naming the season and episode the quote comes from. adopting catchy identities and being a guy with a thing (à la “how i met your mother”) can be useful, ice break­ing and fun, but ultimately that will leave you staring into a puddle asking yourself if you really are really, really ridiculously good looking, or, if you’re like myself, you have a lot of pondering to do. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Alex Coccia 
shard of glass 
in my first article freshman year, i referenced Kwame anthony appiah’s “cosmopolitanism,” which seems ap­propriate to resurrect in this current political context. creating the metaphor for Truth as a complete mirror, he writes, “each shard [of this mirror once shattered] reflects one part of a complex truth from its own particular angle. … you will find parts of the truth (along with much error) everywhere and the whole truth nowhere. The deepest mistake … is to think that your little shard of mirror can reflect the whole.” 
There is great responsibility that comes when expressing what is reflected in a single shard of glass — whether it is a politi­cian’s platform, a supreme court justice’s dissenting opinion or a columnist’s criti­cisms. The glass shattered long before the founding of the country. what piece of truth there is must be handled in such a way that does not damage our pursuit of the whole Truth. The means with which we handle our truth requires humility. 
an important framework for the need for humility in our current discourse can be found in 1 corinthians 13: “For now, we see in a mirror, dimly, but then we will see face to face. … and now faith, hope, and love abide, these three; and the great­est of these is love” (12-13). dr. cornel west, a professor at princeton university, echoes 1 corinthians 13 when he writes, “To be a part of a prophetic tradition is not to be a prophet or elitist. rather, it is humbly to direct your strongest criticisms at yourself and then self-critically speak your mind to others with painful candor and genuine compassion.” if we take our role as american citizens to be prophetic within our borders and examples to other countries, we must proceed with humble means. “The greatest of these is love,” and so, if in our humility, we are guided by love, we are more carefully collecting the various shards of glass, resulting in a more complete truth for our country. 

it does a great disservice to our country when humility is notably absent in the po­litical discourse. The lack of it augments the divisiveness of debate, debate which has the potential of being healthy and fulfill­ing. The epithet “war” is applied to almost any disagreement — obama’s “war on religion” or the gop’s “war on women.” both political parties claim their side is the victim and the other side is the beast. There is the Truth according to democrats and the Truth according to republicans. unfortunately, each claims to be the whole Truth rather than a simple shard of it. 
when discussing humility in a political context, one main criticism emerges — a political leader must be confident and appear confident to his or her constituents and the rest of the world. confidence, it assumes, rejects humility, because humil­ity is seen as a form of weakness. however, confidence and humility are not incom­patible; in fact, typically those who are the most confident are also the most humble. The presence of humility does not weaken a politician or his or her positions. 
rather, humility does provide a politi­cian with the foresight to change his or her positioning, not position. positioning allows maneuverability in achieving one’s set position. humility and willingness to change one’s means for the benefit of the end creates room for compromise. 
not surprising in today’s political cli­mate, compromise is both an afterthought and a fairytale. Today, compromise is de­fined as bipartisanship in which one side moves completely across the aisle to agree with the other. 
however, true compromise is a platform for progress as a country, but it is impos­sible without humility. compromise is certainly not possible nor recommended for everything — ultimate positions do not have to be compromised. when it comes to guaranteeing basic human rights and protecting the dignity of the human person, there can be no compromise. but when it comes to how politicians conduct themselves, willingness to compromise and admittance to the reality in which no politician holds the whole Truth, is abso­lutely necessary for progress as a country, because it relies on the assumption that there will be more truth to discover. 
our goal as citizens and as a country should be to create the space in our per­sonal lives and our public lives for humble discourse. The means with which we reconstruct the glass, which we are all attempting to do, are as important as the final product itself. For, one mishandling can shatter each piece into more, setting back any further attempt at attaining the Truth. let’s not shatter the glass further. 
Alex Coccia is a junior Africana and peace studies major, and a gender studies minor. He can be reached at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

contraception is sinful 
To quote the catechism of the catholic church, “The innate language that ex­presses the total reciprocal self-giving of husband and wife is overlaid, through con­traception, by an objectively contradictory language, namely, that of not giving oneself totally to the other. This leads not only to a positive refusal to be open to life but also to a falsification of the inner truth of conjugal love” (2370). 
paraphrasing, contraception is sinful. “[w]e have a responsibility for the sins committed by others when we cooperate in them … ?” (1868). cooperating in the use of contraception by others is a sin. as a catholic institution, the university would contradict its values by providing contra­ceptives. moral philosophy has quite the burden to overcome this straightforward teaching of the church. also, note the university is not preventing non-catholics from obtaining contraceptives elsewhere and thus is not subjecting non-catholics to catholic conscience. 

i am not familiar with the quality and affordability of insurance for graduate students and their families at notre dame. however, “the university should not pro­vide contraceptives” and “the university should provide better healthcare to student-families” are different normative statements. The latter is beyond the scope. 
Finally, consider the irony of all this. looking back to The observer in 2009, Fr. Jenkins was criticized for conferring an honorary degree on president obama. 
Three years later, Fr. Jenkins filed a lawsuit against him. maybe Fr. Jenkins would have joined the 20-plus seniors who boy­cotted their graduation and instead held a vigil for life at the grotto. i recognize the church’s teachings and notre dame’s efforts are not popular. The numbers are staggering for the use of artificial contra­ceptives both within and outside of mar­riage for catholics and non-catholics alike. however, i applaud the university’s efforts to live out fully and faithfully the teachings of the church. 
Brett Ubl 
junior Fisher hall aug. 28 

QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“The world is a book, and those who do not travel read only a page.” 
St. Augustine of Hippo Latin philosopher and theologian 
What do you think of the new design? 
Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll by 5 p.m. Thursday. 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2012  | ndsmcobserver.com 
An incomplete view of the future 
John Sandberg 
Fisherman’s musings 

i like paul ryan. i like that he is a leader with ideas and not just a loud voice and argumentative demeanor. i like that he views reducing the federal debt and enacting sound economic policy not only as responsibilities that come with being an elected offi­cial, but as moral responsibilities his generation owes to the generations which will come after him. 
but as much as i respect ryan for his willingness to put forth a concrete economic plan, i can’t help but find his talk of working to leave behind a better country ironic considering he is one of several members of congress who continues to deny the facts sur­rounding climate change. global warming, if left unchecked, will have disastrous effects on the future gen­erations of americans, who ryan champions. economic strength is an important issue and will continue to be one, but the future entails much more. 
Two weeks ago, brad plumer of The washington post summarized 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

i’ve had “career angst” since i was little. while other children had dreams of becoming astronauts, teachers or firefighters, i was torn between three career paths: 1) running a bowling alley, 2) mowing lawns or 3) manning the check out aisle at the local iga. in spite of all this, there is one thing i have always wanted — to be more like my mom. 
about eight years ago, my mom’s dad (my grandpa), died of alzheimer’s. he was one of the most influential men in her life, a man who sacrificed his life for her dreams of college and law school. it was painful to watch my mom slowly lose one of the people she loved most. his mind, which once han­dled numbers and names with nimble­ness and ease, slowly lost awareness of the family and the world he loved. 
The disease was certainly not kind to him. it reared its ugly fangs for many years. so long, in fact, that i began to become very familiar with the commute between our hometown in cincinnati to the nursing home in dayton, where my grandpa was to spend the last years of his life. 
we would often visit grandpa ryan’s track record on environmen­tal issues and highlighted how ryan has (among other things) voted to block efforts by the epa to regulate carbon-dioxide emissions, as well as disregarded the work of non-partisan climatologists. if the climbing annual temperatures, unforgiving droughts and increasingly unpredictable weather patterns of the past couple years are not enough to convince some of the reality of global warm­ing, another story by plumer in The washington post last year described how the consensus within the sci­entific community on man-made climate change is growing even stronger. 
it’s ironic ryan claims to care about the country he will be leaving behind for the next generation, yet is so will­ing to block others’ efforts to combat a different problem of monumental significance. 
while democrats typically cham­pion themselves as defenders of en­vironmental causes and alternative energy projects, there has still been little to no talk in this election about serious alternative energy plans for the country’s future. i understand this election is about the economy, and for good reason. Try finding someone who is unemployed and searching for a job, and convince him or her the federal government’s top concern should be reducing carbon emissions. you probably wouldn’t get too far. 

while it’s unrealistic, even foolish, to propose the fight against global warming should be objective no. 1 in washington, the fact remains — more must be done about this very seriously problem. if nothing else, our most prominent national figures could begin by giving global warming the attention it warrants. 
The supposition that policy makers must choose between the interests of environmentalists and business owners, effectively pleasing one side and hanging the other out to dry, is as naïve as it is untrue. who’s to say we can’t build a stronger economy and cleaner environment? 
There was a time when america prided itself on being the world’s so­lution center. is that a standard we can’t expect to meet again? surely we have not reached our intellectual capacity as a nation. a favorite line 
To see the face of god 
around meal times. and, save for the slow movements of fork and knife and the occasional clinking of glass, the alzheimer’s wing in which he lived was mostly silent. staff shuffled around from place to place, attending to residents who needed help. most resi­dents, however, sat quietly and ate by themselves. 
all this said, i doubt many people would say nursing homes are places of beauty. but, it hit me recently that these trips to visit my grandpa might be the closest i have ever come in my life to experiencing god, to under­standing the mystery of the one who is unconditional love. 
and it was my mom who helped me see it. you see, during these visits, my mom never left my grandpa’s side. although he never responded, she would talk to him and help him eat. and if the weather was nice, she would bundle him up and take him on walks around the building’s paths. 
but the most beautiful mo­ments came when mom would just hold grandpa’s hand. alexander schmemann captures what i saw in these moments with words more elo­quent than mine, “in silence: all words had been said, all passion exhausted, all storms at peace.  The whole life was behind — yet all of it was now present, in this silence, in this light, in this warmth, in this silent unity of hands.” 

i can only imagine the day of my mom’s birth, the day when my grandpa first looked and held her hands. love must have burst forth from his heart, even though she could not respond or say his name. and now, in these mo­ments, in this unity of hands, it was happening again. This time, however, it was my mom’s turn.  although it was grandpa who now couldn’t respond, no words were necessary to express the love that burst from his daughter’s heart. 
vincent van gogh once wrote, “love is something eternal — the aspect may change, but not the essence.” alzheimer’s could not alter the essence of love present in the relationship between my mom and my grandpa. grandpa was always “dad” to my mom. That is something no disease could ever touch. 
These experiences were poignant reminders to me that, in a similar way, nothing can alter the fact we are be­loved sons and daughters of a different father, a heavenly Father. although we can never understand completely or respond adequately to this beauti­ful gift, we can, bit by bit, try to live into its truth. and we must know, no matter how much we forget or remain among politicians in recent years has been, “it’s time for america to lead again.” why not let green business and effective, clean energy produc­tion be our starting points? 
my frustration over this issue glosses over one stark reality — there are no easy solutions when it comes to global warming. but before bat­tling the problem, let alone fixing it, government leaders and citizens alike must consciously choose to head to­wards a future that includes cleaner energy production and less depen­dence on dirty fuel. 
This election is about many issues, climate change being one of unrecog­nized importance. To be honest, i still don’t know who i’ll vote for. when november does arrive though, i’ll be punching my ballot with the feeling my selection is not doing enough to promote a cleaner future, as well as the hope it will change. 
John Sandberg is a junior political science major from Littleton, Colo. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
obstinate and silent before him, that god always gazes on us with affection. it’s what a loving father does for his children, and it’s something we can give back to him. 
it’s what my grandpa did for my mom, and it was something she was finally able to give back. my mom is a reminder to me that we have to choose love, even when it’s hard, and even when we may not get anything in return. it’s one of the most power­ful things we can do because, when we love unconditionally and without any expectation of return, we have the opportunity, as victor hugo once wrote, “to see the face of god.” so, this year, i am making a commitment to remembering that each time i have the opportunity to love a family member, a roommate, a stranger or a friend, i have an opportunity to experience now what awaits us in heaven — the loving face of god. 
Thanks, mom, for modeling and showing me the way. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2012  | ndsmcobserver.com 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
scene writer 
let’s face it. we all get chronically lazy in the dining hall. why wouldn’t we? The cafeteria is often too busy to bother to try some thing different, and there’s plenty of food already made for us. we either eat the closest thing we find, or go back to the same old stuff. not anymore. Fellow students, i challenge you to try some thing new, to find something you didn’t know was there and use the dining hall to put your culinary skills to work. want to feel the creative thrill of make your own pizza all the time? it’s time to spice things up (literally). 

Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
JACQUELINE O’NEILL | Observer Graphic 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2012  | ndsmcobserver.com 

is a result of a particular fashion culture that has 
By JESS CHRISTIAN 
been established here at nd. somewhere between 
the single-digit, fashion-forbidding winter temps 

Friday marked the closing of the ever-so-long-and the heavily sports-oriented culture on campus, awaited first week of school. on that day, i woke up many students have gradually let style to fall by the well rested to the sounds of birds chirping and with-wayside, allowing for casual clothing to become the out the help of the unwelcomed marimba chimes of university’s dominant form of fashion. even more my iphone alarm. once i managed to lazily maneuver importantly, many of us have allowed the dominance out of my loft, i began to consider the positive pros-of casual clothing to cause us to focus a significantly pect of a day left entirely unscheduled, minus a single higher amount of attention on well-dressed individu­hour-long spanish class 
scene writer 


als. This focus on the standing in my way. with 
fashionable minority un­plenty of time to spare 
doubtedly drives those before i had to leave my 
afraid of being over-ob­room, i began search-
served away from push­ing through my closet for 
ing the envelope and an outfit as great as the 
dressing their best. day before me. i pieced 
as someone who finds together a look of bright 
a person’s expression of colors, beautiful pat-
distinctive style to be terns and feminine cuts. 
almost as telling, if not i accessorized with a 
more so, than speech thin pair of silver hoop 
itself, i find this to be earrings, salmon shades 
somewhat concerning. and a pair of beaded bo­
i want my fellow class­hemian sandals. i threw 
mates to feel free to wear in a touch of confidence 
what they want to wear before i grabbed my acid-
because a fashionably washed denim backpack 
diverse campus is a cam-and headed out the door. 
pus that can make a col­as i walked across cam­
orful statement without pus towards debartolo 
saying a word. and that’s and casually scrolled 
what fashion is all about. through recent posts on 
Therefore, i propose instagram, i glanced up 
the following challenge to meet the gaze of an 
for students of this grand anonymous passerby. 
university we know so The student looked away, 
well. do not allow a pre-
Image courtesy of uptownurban.com 

and we continued walk-established culture of ca­
Don’t be afraid to show off your style this semester — 
ing our separate ways. i sual style to hinder your 
no special occasion necessary. 
resumed my instagram desire to dress nicely. if investigation, but when a turn was fast approaching, you want to look good, then choose to look good. if i looked up again only to catch another individual you want to wear the dress but are leaning towards watching me. i smiled, and she smiled back before the safe bet of a T-shirt and shorts, wear the dress. if the large crowd of students leaving their morning you want to wear the combat boots but are hesitant classes hid her from my 
because you’ve spent line of vision. 
your life in Jordans, wear perplexed, i let the 
the boots. i believe this peculiarity of the reoc­
campus is full of a wide curring incident bounce 
variety of fashionable around in the back of my 
students with the poten­mind throughout my one 
tial to dress to impress class.  when the class was 
all the time. i understand finally through, i reeval­
most students here on uated the series of events, 
campus and around the catching a few more 
world do not have visa looks on my way down 
black cards. They are not the steps. as i walked 
celebrities, and versace through the doors, i saw 
and alexander mcQueen my friends calling me 
are not tossing free de­and went over to join 
signer collections their them. immediately, i was 
way. i am not implying bombarded with a series 
we should all be drop-of questions about why 
ping a pretty penny for a i was dressed so nicely 
new closet. i am pushing and who i was trying to 
students to take a stand, entice. when i began 
dust off those standout thinking of a response, 
pieces in the back of the the cause of all the stares 
closet and help make dawned on me — i looked 
looking good an every-particularly nice that day. 
day campus norm. i am 

i laughed and told pushing students to ven­my friends that i wasn’t ture into that store full trying to look good for of striking clothes they anything or anyone in particular, but i just felt like love but don’t think they can pull off to hit the mall, looking nice. They rolled their eyes and laughed in buy their favorite pieces and dare to be bold. if you’re disbelief, and as we began walking, a huge question hesitant to wear what you want to wear, then you’re popped into my head that left me even more puzzled hesitant to be who you want to be. don’t hold back. 
— why is it that looking particularly nice sets one branch out and dress to impress yourself. you’ll be apart from the normal notre dame collegiate crowd? shocked at who else is impressed. why do i have to be heading somewhere special in or­der to look classy on campus? Contact Jes Christian at jchrist7@nd.edu 
after pondering these questions for a couple of days, The views expressed in this column are those of the i realized that the regularity of this sort of reaction author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 

JACQUELINE O’NEILL | Observer Graphic 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2012  | ndsmcobserver.com 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

boise state needs tougher schedule 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Gators look for starting QB 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
it’s finally, finally football season again, when kids ages 5 to 45 pad up, line up in the trenches and hit each other as hard as they possibly dare. 
someone pushes the pile, someone gets pushed along. somebody initiates con­tact, somebody else takes it. someone wins, someone loses. 
Football leaves no doubt. 
which is why i’ve got a bone to pick with a certain college football team. They have more wins over the past five years than any team in the Fbs, and it’s not even close. They’ve finished with a perfect record twice over that span — 13-0 in 2006 and 14-0 in 2009 — and have only lost six games since 2006. yet they’ve never claimed a bcs national championship, Fiesta bowl win in 2009. 
2010 started with a win at no. 13 virginia Tech. last season, they opened with a win over no. 19 georgia in the georgia dome. but the broncos slipped up with a late loss in each of those seasons, and ended up with nothing but two wins in something called the maaco bowl. 
This year, boise state ap­pears to be following the same game plan. The team will begin their campaign in east lansing against no. 13 michigan state, but if they can upset the spartans there, the toughest challenge left on their schedule will be the mostly toothless cougars of byu. 
but even if the broncos do run the table — a distinct pos­sibility with 11 cupcakes on their plate — they most likely still won’t have a chance to 

  But if you play to compete and to dominate, believing in August your team is the best and have the chance to go out to show it to the world, then prove it. 
or even had the opportunity to play for one. 
That’s right, boise state, i’m talking to you. 
The broncos burst into america’s consciousness on new year’s night in 2007. previously known only as “that team with the blue turf,” boise squared off against oklahoma in the Fiesta bowl, with the sooners favored by more than a touchdown. The broncos played like kids in the backyard, running consecu­tive trick plays before going for two and the win in overtime. 
boise won 43-42, their star running back proposed to his cheerleader girlfriend and one of the greatest fairy tale games in history ended happily ever after. 
boise state made football look easy that year, and to a certain extent, it was. The team hadn’t played a single top-25 team in the regular sea­son, and its strength of sched­ule was in the bottom third in the Fbs. most argued any elite team could finish undefeated with that schedule, and the team finished fourth in the fi­nal ap poll. 
in an attempt to boost their reputation and postseason résumé, boise state began to schedule one signature game early on in each season. They beat oregon – a top-20 squad – in september in both 2008 and 2009, and ran the table in the regular season both years. but voters were still unimpressed, sending them to the poinsettia bowl in 2008 and to another play for the crystal ball. They need to learn the lesson that the polls have been trying to tell them for years: one game does not a season make. 
so my question to coach chris petersen and his team is this: why do you play the game? 
if the answer is to win a big game, coast and backdoor your way into the bcs, then stick to your guns. your move to the big east and the transition to a four-team playoff might even give you a fighting chance at a shot starting next year. 
but if you play to compete and to dominate, believing in august your team is the best and have the chance to go out to show it to the world, then prove it. why set up a sched­ule where perfection is not enough? 
Knock down doors in the sec and big Ten, offer to play teams at their place and dou­ble-dog-dare them to accept. get notre dame or another big-time school to play mid-season. set up a murderer’s row of a schedule that re­wards greatness, not one that explains it away. if you’re the elite program that you think you are, come out and prove to the rest of the country that you deserve a shot to be no. 1. 
leave no doubt. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Associated Press 

gainesville, Fla. — one will start, both will play. and when the season opener is over, no. 23 Florida probably will de­cide between the two. 
offensive coordinator brent pease said Tuesday he’s not sure the team’s two-quar­terback system is viable be­yond saturday’s game against bowling green, meaning the gators likely will choose be­tween Jacoby brissett and Jeff driskel before travel­ing to Texas a&m for the southeastern conference opener. 

“That’s my gut feeling,” pease said. “i don’t know if it’s sustain­able from there. it depends how they play, i guess, and what they create.” 
The sophomores have battled for the starting job since spring practice. coach will muschamp said each will play a quarter in the first half saturday, and then the coaches will decide how to progress after halftime. 
pease credited brissett and driskel with making strides in the offseason, and said that playing both is the fair thing to do. 
“i think it would be difficult to name a starter right now,” pease said. “what would you be telling the other kid? if they had separated each other, yeah. but they’ve both made major prog­ress and done good things. we have a situation in a game where we can play them.” 
The gators expect to pick a starter later in the week. 
pease suggested they might flip a coin. brissett joked that he figured they would decide it by playing cards. 
in reality, starting the game means little. each quarterback 

WANTED 

Math-Tutors Mathnasium seek­ing qualified math tutors. Experience working with children. 10-20hrs/week. Resumes:granger@mathnasium.com 888-850-6284 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential sup­port or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more in­formation, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

will get 15 minutes, maybe just slinger. a series or two, to show what he The gators want to be a run-can do in front of 90,000 at The first offense, with mike gillislee, swamp. mack brown and matt Jones 
“This is our biggest opportu-handling much of the workload. nity and our biggest chance,” and when brissett and driskel driskel said. “They’re going to do throw, they just need to dis-go with the guy who is going to tribute the ball quickly and give them the best chance for accurately. the rest of the season.” pease said brissett needs to 
both guys had a chance to work on his pocket presence. shine last season. driskel strug-“he’s comfortable in the gled in place of injured starter pocket,” pease said. “he likes to John brantley against alabama, sit in there and hold it and try and brissett was mediocre while and throw the ball downfield starting the next two weeks. because he can throw off bal-
They were freshmen then. ance. he’s got a strong arm. he They have one less excuse now. can flick it. and, hey, if it’s not 
“at the end of the day, it’s just there, you better pull it down going out and play football,” and go. you know, make a quick brissett said. “it’s time to play. decision and go vertical.” no more time for interviews and what about driskel? talk, just go out and have fun.” “really with him, because 
although the quarterback he’s not afraid to run, really pro-race has gotten most of the at-tecting himself on the move,” tention the last six months, the pease said. “sometimes he reality is that if things go the thinks he’s a fullback in there way muschamp hopes, neither or sliding into second.” by all will be asked to do too much. accounts, brissett and driskel muschamp is simply looking have handled what could be an for a game manager, not a gun awkward situation pretty well. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Famous quotes about sports: 
“I’ve missed more than 9,000 shots in my career. I’ve lost almost 300 games. Twenty-six times, I’ve been trusted to take the game winning shot and missed. I’ve failed over and over and over again in my life. And that is why I succeed.” - Michael Jordan 
“You can’t put a limit on anything. The more you dream, the far­ther you get.” -Michael Phelps 
“Eighteen holes of match play will teach you more about your foe than 18 years of dealing with him across a desk.” - Grantland Rice 
“Most people never run far enough on their first wind to find out they’ve “Trying to sneak a fastball past Hank Aaron is like trying to sneak the sun­rise past a rooster.” - Joe Adcock 
got  a  second.”  -William  James  
“A  lifetime  of  training  for  just  
ten  seconds.”  - Jesse  Owens  

“One man practicing sports­manship is far better than a hun­dred teaching it.” -Knute Rockne 
“One thing you learned as a Cubs fan: when you bought a ticket, you could bank on seeing the bot­tom of the ninth.” - Joe Garagiola 
“What other people may find in po­etry or art museums, I find in the flight of a good drive.” -Arnold Palmer 
“The fewer rules a coach has, the fewer rules there are for play­ers to break.” -John Madden 
“Bobby Knight told me this: ‘There is not a good defense that can beat a better offense.’ In other words, a good offense wins.” - Dan Quayle 



MLB 

Castro agrees to seven-year deal with Cubs 
Associated Press 
chicago — starlin castro was barely out of his teens when he made his big league debut. now it looks as though he’ll still be donning cubbie blue when he hits his 30s. 
The chicago cubs and their young shortstop agreed to a seven-year contract with a club option for 2020, the team said Tuesday. The deal could keep castro in chicago until after his 30th birthday. 
“only the most talented play­ers get to the big leagues at 20,” said cubs general manger Jed hoyer. “i’m sitting here with a 22-year-old veteran right now. That was a big part of our decision. 
“The way it was looking, starlin was going to be a free agent way too early. he’s a big part of our future. we have four years of control with him after this year. by doing this deal, we now have eight.” 
castro is a two-time all-star in just his second full major league season, and he led the national league in hits with 207 last season. since making his major league debut on may 7, 2010, castro has more hits than any player in the nl with 486. 
“i want to be here for a long time and winning,” castro said. “my family (will) change, but nothing (will) change for my­self. (The money is) not going to stop me from working hard ev­ery day on the field.” 
castro was originally signed by the cubs as a non-drafted free agent on oct. 25, 2006. Terms of the new deal were not released by the team, but pub­lished reports have placed the guaranteed money at $60 mil­lion over the duration of the extension, a figure castro was asked about in Tuesday’s press conference. 
“it’s big, especially for my family, coming from very poor people,” castro said. “now my family is going to be better, their lives changing.” 
castro motioned toward his father, who was standing near­by, and said, “my dad wanted me to play baseball every time. he got me here.” 
while castro’s raw talent has always been evident, things have not always gone smoothly for a player who skirted with trouble off the field and suffered well-publicized mental lapses on it. he was accused of sex­ual assault following the 2011 season, though cook county prosecutors declined to press charges, citing insufficient evidence. 
castro’s on-field focus has also been questioned, most no­tably during a nationally-tele­vised game last season when cameras captured him with his back to the plate as a pitch was being delivered. 
despite the occasional bouts with immaturity, the cubs feel castro is going to be a foundation player for a club just beginning its rebuilding pro­cess under a new front office regime headed by vice president of baseball operations Theo epstein and hoyer. 
“it’s been fun getting to know starlin as a person, but also watching him play every day,” hoyer said. “shortstop is a real­ly hard position to fill in today’s game, especially with someone who can provide it with offense. 
“There is no question in my mind that he can play shortstop in the big leagues on a champi­onship team.” 
castro whet the appetite of cubs fans from the start, hom­ering in his first career at-bat and setting a big league re­cord with six rbis in his debut. he was taken in by cubs vet­eran alfonso soriano, a fellow dominican who helped mentor castro at the beginning of his career. 


“he’s very important,” castro said of soriano. “when i first got here, he took me to live in his house. he talked to me about baseball and how important baseball is for you and your family.” 
castro, a career .296 hitter, was batting .276 this season with 12 homers and 63 rbis before Tuesday night’s game against milwaukee. he’s strug­gled recently and admitted he might have been slightly dis­tracted by the negotiations be­tween the cubs and his agent, paul Kinzer. 
“it’ll be interesting to see if there is any change now that this thing is behind him and he’ll be here for a long time,” said cubs manager dale sveum. “when you get that first contract, you can relax and realize that there really is only one thing to play for and that’s winning the world series.” 
NHL 

nhl offers proposal with lockout looming 
process along,” bettman said, four executives. They met for 
Associated Press 
“we tried to address the funda-two hours last wednesday in 

new yorK — The nhl issued mental issues.” Toronto, exclusively. That meet-a new proposal to the players’ neither the league nor the play-ing was to discuss the state of the association Tuesday as a lockout ers would divulge specifics of negotiations. looms next month. the proposal, although montreal “we don’t know the answer 
and at least one side is happy forward mathieu darche said he to that,” Fehr said when asked if about it. was “encouraged.” the smaller meetings jumpstart­
“we believe,” nhl “we had a lot of people at the ed the negotiating process. “if it commissioner gary bettman office evaluating the proposal,” doesn’t (work), we’ll find another said, “that we made a significant, said darche, who estimated he way.” meaningful step.” received “20, 25 texts” from play-after the sessions in Toronto, 
Time will tell, but at least ers asking for details of the dif-the return to new york was nhlpa executive director ferent proposal. “it didn’t take a strange one for both sides. donald Fehr and his players them five minutes to write it and negotiations resumed in the have another proposal — the it won’t take us five minutes to morning, as planned, but then league’s second this summer — read it.” took a slight break while Fehr left to digest. The two sides will meet The current cba expires sept. the building. upon exiting, he again on wednesday at the nhl 15 and the nhl has said it will told reporters talks had paused offices. lock the players out if a new deal just for a bit. 
a less optimistic Fehr la-isn’t reached. “i think the appropriate thing beled the offering “a proposal limiting the personnel at the to do under the circumstances that we intend to respond to.” bargaining table in the hope of is go back (to our office). we’ve meanwhile, bettman called it making progress, only Fehr and got constituents and so on,” Fehr a “counterproposal” to the of-his top assistant, steve Fehr, met said at the time. “and so we’ll see fer the players presented to the with bettman and nhl deputy you later on i’m sure.” league earlier this month. in that commissioner bill daly on he eventually returned to “core economic,” and if nothing he’s up against. in fact, follow-proposal, the players had of-Tuesday morning when the pro-confirm the proposal, and was else, the players now have more ing the session, bettman said he fered to take two-, four- and six-posal was issued. Traditionally, joined by player representatives to work with. wouldn’t “feel better about this percent reductions in hockey several players have joined in on this time. Fehr was accompanied “i’m trying to get us on to the process until it is successfully related revenue for the first the talks. by darche, san Jose defenseman same page,” bettman said. “i’m completed.” he defined success-three years of a new collective Tuesday’s session was the douglas murray and winnipeg trying to get us on to a common ful completion as having “a col-bargaining agreement. second time in six days that the defenseman ron hainsey. language.” lective bargaining agreement.” 
“we felt in order to move the meeting was limited to just the Tuesday’s session was billed as but, clearly, he knows what Time’s running out for that. 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
NFL 

Wallace has “no regrets” after ending holdout 
Associated Press 
piTTsburgh — mike wallace sat in his usual spot in the corner of the pittsburgh steelers locker room and decided it was time to hold court. 
hey, it’d been awhile for the leader of the self-proclaimed “young money Family.” 
The pro bowl wide receiver posed for the cameras alongside teammates antonio brown, chris rainey, Jerricho cotchery and ike Taylor while flashing a smile and cracking jokes, business as usual for one of the nFl’s fastest playmakers. 
it was almost as if wallace’s lengthy holdout — one that final­ly came to an end on Tuesday — never happened. maybe because that’s the way wallace prefers it. 
“i’m not dwelling on the past,” wallace said. “i have no regrets.” 
he also still doesn’t have the long-term deal he covets. 
instead the 26-year-old re­stricted free agent will play under the one-year, $2.7 million tender offered by the steelers and hope something lengthier gets worked out before the regular season begins next week. as a rule the steelers (no. 7 in the appro32) don’t negotiate contracts during the season. 
wallace, who caught a career-high 72 passes for 1,193 yards and eight touchdowns last season, remains optimistic an agreement can be reached sometime before pittsburgh faces denver on sept. 9. 
“This is the team that drafted me and it’s where i want to stay,” wallace said. “i’m not really wor­ried about down the road. i’m worried about playing football. ... That was business. i’m not on that right now. i’m here to play football and that’s it.” 
even if wallace won’t be able to actually practice until next week under the league’s collective bar­gaining agreement. still, wallace believes he’ll be ready to face the broncos even if it means cram sessions getting up to speed on new offensive coordinator Todd haley’s complex system. 
“we have two weeks to the game,” wallace said. “i’ve been working out. i’ve been really good conditioning. i don’t think that’s going to be a problem.” 
neither does quarterback ben roethlisberger, who kept in con­tact with wallace during the hold­out. The two have developed into one of the nFl’s best deep-pass­ing combinations over the last three years, with roethlisberger’s arm and wallace’s blazing speed giving the steelers an ability to stretch the field few teams can match. 
while roethlisberger allows there’s going to be a steep learn­ing curve for wallace, he’s eager to have wallace back on the field. 
“it’s kind of like your parents telling you you get a new car then it has to sit in the driveway be­cause you don’t have any insur­ance,” roethlisberger said. “once you get that insurance, you get out and take it for a ride.” 
wallace spent a significant amount of time during his hold­out working with trainers in Florida and refining his route-running looking to avoid another slump like the one he endured at the end of the 2011 season. he posted four 100-yard receiving games in the first seven weeks of the year but didn’t top 82 yards in any of pittsburgh’s final nine games as defenses adjusted. 
in his place, antonio brown developed into roethlisberger’s most trusted target and signed a six-year, $42 million extension early in camp while wallace wait­ed for the phone to ring. 
don’t expect any sort of rivalry, however, between brown and wallace. 
“a player like mike is so ex­plosive and gets so many things done,” brown said. “you need a guy like that on your team. it’s amazing when you can get him lined up on the other side and you know what he is capable of. it’s a great thing to have him here.” 
wallace declined to get specific about what he accomplished by holding out and said only “my teammates need me” when asked why he decided to end it without resolving his contract situation. 
“my teammates know what was going on,” wallace said. “my coaches know, i kept in contact with them. so as long as they know, i really don’t care about anybody else.” 
Though he’s had a copy of 

MLB 

blue Jays lose bautista for remainder of season 
Associated Press 
new yorK — Toronto blue Jays slugger Jose bautista will have season-ending surgery to stabilize a tendon in his left wrist. 
bautista said before Tuesday night’s game against the new york yankees that the recovery period is three to four months and he would be ready to play long before the start of spring training next year. 
“There’s just too much insta­bility in that tendon and it got to the point where risking injur­ing the tendon was not worth it,” bautista said. “That’s why we’re opting to do it now.” 
bautista was initially injured in an at-bat against the yankees on July 16. he chose to give rest and rehab a try and he returned from the disabled list Friday. but he says, while he did not experi­ence any pain, he felt the ten­don moving around too much and was taken out of the game against the baltimore orioles on saturday. The two-time defend­ing al home run champion was immediately put back on the dl and sent to cleveland to see a hand specialist. 
dr. Thomas graham will per­form the operation next week in cleveland. 
“luckily for me the tendon is completely intact,” bautista said. 
“he just needs to make it stable what prompted the recommen­again.” dation for surgery. 
manager John Farrell said “it’s a definitive plan going for­bautista made it through his re-ward,” Farrell said. “The tough habilitation program without thing through all this is Jose issue. but the instability he was never felt any discomfort but, yet, feeling when he returned was he didn’t feel the strong stable feeling he typically does.” 
bautista spoke with Tampa bay rays outfielder sam Fuld, who had similar surgery this spring after a more extended period of rest and immobilization. bautista did not want to risk missing time next year by trying lengthy rest since it didn’t work for Fuld. 
after a slow start in which his average didn’t rise above .200 until mid-may, bautista finished with a .241 average, 27 homers and 65 rbis in 92 games. 


paid adverTisemenT 
haley’s playbook for weeks, wallace knows there will be a breaking-in process. he felt he got a few “mental reps” watch­ing his teammates go through drills in preparation for the pre­season finale against carolina on Thursday and huddled with receivers coach scottie montgomery when practice broke. 
“i’m learning the plays,” he said. “here i at least get to see it. at home i couldn’t see it ... i’ll be back on monday hopefully and i’ll be ready to roll.” 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2012  | ndsmcobserver.com 




NCAA FOOTBALL 

Klein’s leadership fuels wildcats’ resurgence 
Associated Press 
manhaTTan, Kan. — The proclamation from coach bill snyder following no. 22 Kansas state’s annual spring game was hardly surpris­ing, even though what it represented was downright historic. 
senior quarterback collin Klein would be one of four captains for the 2012 season. 
Klein ran for 27 touch­downs last season to break a school record set in 1969, and threw for 13 more while leading the wildcats to a 10-3 record and a berth in the cotton bowl. he spent most of the season bloodied and battered, often missing every practice between games, yet never once complaining as he put together one of the finest seasons in school history. 
so everybody expected Klein to be a captain. but the fact that he was made a captain for the third straight year, something that had never before happened for an offensive player in school history, spoke volumes about how he’s viewed inside and outside the program. 
“i think the sky’s the limit for anybody. it’s just what you do with what you’ve got,” snyder said. “he does a great deal with what he has.” 
more than anything, that’s 
Nhim 
conTinued From page 20 
help the freshmen transition into team competition,” nhim said. “college golf is a com­pletely different atmosphere than competition from when we were in high school.” 
despite notre dame’s youth, nhim said she is not worried about how the team will per­form this year. 
“The team we have this year is extremely talented in all as­pects of the game,” nhim said. “so, it all just comes down to executing under pressure.” 
nhim has proven her ability to execute under pressure — she has twice been named to the all-big east team and tied for sixth at the 2012 big east championship. 
although nhim has already exhibited her cool demeanor during her college career, she said she does have minor ticks in her habits. 
“The only superstitions i have are that i never keep score when we play practice rounds, and i always mark my golf balls the day before,” nhim said. 
This summer, nhim and her partner armstrong finished in tied-eighth with a four-over­par at The pure silk collegiate why snyder has such an ap­preciation for him. 
he doesn’t have the great­est throwing motion — wide receiver chris harper called it “jinky,” which he described as “not what everybody typi­cally thinks is correct.” and he certainly prefers to scram­ble out of the pocket than settle back and search down field. 
but even though Klein is just about the furthest thing from the prototypical, 21st­century quarterback, he somehow makes it work in snyder’s modern adaption of the veer offense. 
Klein had the third-most rushing attempts last sea­son in major college football, the 317 carries trailing only bobby rainey of western Kentucky and robbie rouse of Fresno state — both of them running backs, guys who are supposed to be tot­ing the ball. The quarterback with the next-most attempts was Tevin washington of georgia Tech, and he was 75 carries shy. 
it’s no wonder Klein took such a beating last season he often joked he was becoming best friends with the Kansas state training staff. 
perhaps that’s the biggest reason why Klein spent so much of his offseason work­ing with harper and the rest 
Team championship in powell, ohio. nhim said she believes playing with her teammate over the summer will be beneficial for the up­coming season. 
“The pure silk collegiate got me back into play com­petitively,” nhim said. “i had taken some time off, and it was a great experience to be back on the course play­ing. i also learned a lot about my own game playing with ashley because she helped me see weaknesses that i could improve on.” 
on an individual basis, nhim said she just wants to help the team win. 
“i would just like to be able to contribute score-wise ev­ery time we play,” nhim said. 
The team has yet to vote on a captain. whether or not nhim is selected, she said she will contribute with experi­ence and advice. 
“The best advice i can give to my teammates is to put ev­erything they have into prac­tice to get into the mindset of competing,” nhim said. 
The irish will begin their season at the mary Fossum invitational in east lansing, mich., on sept. 15. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at             ilorton@nd.edu 

of his veteran wide receivers. They toiled in the blistering, 100-degree heat of the Flint hills, running endless routes and refining Klein’s mechan­ics to the point where maybe 
— just maybe — he’ll be able to air it out a bit more this season. 
“The growth has been across the board, and it hasn’t just been focused in one area,” snyder said. “he’s grown in regards to his game management. he’s grown in regards to his understanding of our offense and defensive football. he’s grown in terms of leadership, in terms of his confidence level, in just his overall presence on the field, as well as the physical things, the running game and pass­ing game as well. i’ve seen some movement, posi­tive movement, in all those areas.” 
The wildcats started to move away from a one-di­mensional, run-first offense centered around their quar­terback late last year, when teams began to stack the line to prevent the 6-foot­5, 226-pound wrecking ball from running right at them. 
Klein averaged 124 yards passing over the first eight games, but nearly 184 yards in the final four games against oklahoma state, Texas a&m, Texas and iowa state. 

The only loss was a 52-45 heartbreaker to the then-no. 3 cowboys on the road. 
The progress continued throughout the spring, and with Klein calling many of his own plays, he wound up going 47 of 56 for 480 yards and six Tds against the no. 2 defense in the spring game. 
“The point man is collin,” said harper, the wildcats’ leading receiver a year ago. “his release point is better. his mechanics are better. it’s jinky, but he gets the ball there.” 
in other words, he gets the job done. 
That’s all that really mat­ters to the wildcats. 
Klein, who was first-team all-big 12 as an all-purpose player last season, is already on the watch list for manning, maxwell, o’brien and unitas awards — just about all the hardware that is handed out to a quarterback each season. 
but he’s the first to say that personal accolades don’t mean much to him. he’d rath­er talk about the success of the wildcats last season, and what it would mean to dupli­cate such success this season, a task that begins saturday against missouri state. 
“a new identity needs to be carved out,” Klein said. “The 2011 team was amazing, it was a great run, but it was last year. it was a special group of guys, and we have a special 
Kelly 
conTinued From page 20 

the standards that i have for our program?’ ” Kelly said in his Tuesday press conference. 
Kelly said the suspensions handed down were his own, independent from the office of residential life. Lots of receivers to see action 
with the departure of  re­ceiver michael Floyd, the 
“None of them are polished to the level where they’re a standalone player other than Tyler Eifert.” 
Brian Kelly 
Irish coach 

irish lost 100 receptions, 1,147 yards and nine touchdowns. while senior tight end Tyler eifert is expected to provide a safety blanket for sophomore quarterback everett golson, depth behind him is a con­cern for notre dame. 
seniors John goodman and robby Toma, along with juniors T.J. Jones and daniel smith, should be contribu­tors to the irish offense. From 
there, an inexperienced group  other than Tyler eifert.”  
of receivers will take on ex- Kelly said freshmen Justin  
panded roles.  Ferguson,  chris  brown and  
“each one of them right  davonte’ neal will all also see  
now has a different skill set,”  playing time this year.  
Kelly said. “none of them are  
polished to the level where  Contact Matthew DeFranks at              
they’re a standalone player  mdefrank@nd.edu  

paid adverTisemenT 



Kuschel 
conTinued From page 20 
conference play,” Kuschel said. “last year we lost a lot of close games, especially in conference. This year we need more con­sistency, better ball control and 

“We have a strong group of players 
this season; we’re 
ready to prove 
ourselves.” 
Toni Kuschel 
Belles coach 
to win the serving and passing games. if we do this, we can come out on top of those close confer­ence matches.” 
a strong group of returning players will lead the belles this season, Kuschel said. 
“The team is extremely posi­tive going into this season,” Kuschel said. “we have strong leaders in senior setter danie 


ATP 
brink, sophomore meredith mersits and sophomore hitter 

roddick, williams advance 
Kati schneider. we have a lot of returners who saw a lot of action last year and are excited to prove themselves again.” 
brink currently sits third all-time on the saint mary’s set assist leaderboard, with the po­tential to move to the top this season. she will be setting pri­marily for schneider, who last season was the first freshman to lead the belles in kills since 2003. 
“we’re excited to have schnieder’s presence and pow­er back for us on the outside,” Kuschel said. “we have a strong group of players this season; we’re ready to prove ourselves.” 
saint mary’s starts off its 
season  at  the  north  park  
Tournament  on  Friday  and  
saturday.  

Contact Nick Boyle at             nboyle1@nd.edu 


Associated Press 

new yorK — That andy roddick’s last match as a twen­tysomething would not be his last match at the 2012 u.s. open was hardly in doubt Tuesday, especially whenever he was To close the third: ace at 127 launching that intimidating, mph. tough-to-handle serve of his. yes, even as roddick’s 
To close the first set: ace at 141 30th birthday approaches on mph. Thursday, even as his body has To close the second: ace at 134 succumbed to injury after injury, mph. that serve is pretty much still the same as it ever was. now that 

paid adverTisemenT he more frequently faces oppo­nents who grew up cheering for him — such as 21-year-old quali­fier rhyne williams of Knoxville, Tenn., the foil for Tuesday’s 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 victory — roddick knows more than ever he needs to rely on the best thing he’s got, and 20 aces helped this time. 

“you really don’t see that shot,” williams said glowingly about roddick’s serve. 
heading into his grand slam debut, the 283rd-ranked williams had one primary concern: “i was just hoping he wasn’t going to go at me with a serve.” 
“i’m like, ‘oh, no. where’s he going?’ That’s the first thing i thought of. Then it was, ‘it’ll be great. i can play in front of a big crowd.’ it was quite an experi­ence,” said williams, the ncaa runner-up for the university of Tennessee last year and a 12-year­old when roddick won the u.s. open in 2003. 
That was the last grand slam singles title for an american man, the longest drought in his­tory for a country that produced the likes of pete sampras, andre agassi, John mcenroe and Jimmy connors (not to mention others such as bill Tilden or don budge). 
roddick found himself in an era dominated by roger Federer and rafael nadal — and, more recently and to a lesser extent, novak djokovic, who began defense of his u.s. open title by overwhelming 69th-ranked paolo lorenzi of italy 6-1, 6-0, 6-1 on Tuesday night — and while he is without a second major cham­pionship for his resume, he kept adapting his game to try to do just that. 
roddick dedicated himself to stronger fitness. he learned a bet­ter backhand. he improved his volleying. 
“i saw the way the game was going. you have to get stronger and quicker. i don’t think there was much room for a plodder who could hit the ball pretty hard,” roddick said. “it was a conscious effort, at times, and i feel like that’s added to longevity a little bit.” 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NFL 

Jets remain quiet about wildcat 
Associated Press 
Florham parK, n.J. — it has been shrouded in secrecy for months, a topic too taboo for any players to discuss at length — or in some cases, at all. 
it’s the new york Jets’ wildcat package with Tim Tebow, perhaps the most intriguing and confiden­tial set of plays being prepared in any nFl camp this summer. it’s coming, the touchdown-starved Jets insist, but they won’t say when or how. 
“There’s a lot of suspense,” sanchez said with a sly smile Tuesday. “it’s crazy.” 
picture the scene in “men in black” when the agents hold up the neuralyzer to make people forget everything they know. That’s the Jets when it comes to discussing the wildcat package, which hasn’t been used at all in the preseason games. 
“it flashes and it’s a mind eraser,” sanchez said before pausing and then playing along. “wait, what?” 
The Jets (no. 17 in the ap pro32) have taken a lot of criticism for their preseason touchdown drought, becoming the first team since the 1977 atlanta Falcons to not reach the end zone through their first three games. They claim they aren’t too concerned, but offensive coordinator Tony sparano made it clear that they’re not satisfied in any way with the Td drought. 
“it’s field goals. we want touch­downs. There’s no question about it,” sparano said. “make sure you put that in, like, the headlines. we want touchdowns, not field goals.” 
That should ease the minds of antsy Jets fans, who just want to know if the offense will be able to score some points when the games start to actually count. That comes sept. 9, when new york opens at home against buffalo — with the Tebow-led wildcat wrinkle possi­bly sprinkled in. 
or, will it? 
Powers 
conTinued From page 20 
thought we tied too many games last year and didn’t take over many games. we wanted to focus on get­ting the win, especially in that first game, is very important.” 
The irish tied four games last season, all at alumni stadium, including the 2011 season opener against indiana. 
in order to turn those 2011 ties into 2012 wins, notre dame will focus on being more aggressive in the attack­ing third and converting more chanc­es into goals, powers said. 
“The offensive half was a big focus for us, just being more ag­gressive and really getting balls in behind [the defense] is the key,” powers said. “we are trying to get their back four turned and facing their own goal. it opens up the entire field, and i think you score more goals that way.” 
The irish managed to get in behind the defense against the blue devils over the weekend when senior forward ryan Finley buried the game-winner in the 76th minute. powers started the play when he delivered a search­ing ball to junior forward harry shipp, who then crisply sent it to Finley for the goal. 
powers frequently triggered the offense throughout the game with his visionary passing and strong possession. The senior captain also helped stabilize a relatively inexpe­rienced backline, which included three new starters. 
experienced or not, powers said he believes this year’s defensive unit is stronger than that of last sea­son. senior goalkeeper will walsh and senior defender grant van de casteele spearheaded a defensive effort that resulted in just one shot on goal from the blue devils. 
“i think we have a lot of con­fidence in ourselves in the back four,” powers said. “i think we’ve learned from those ties last year, and we’re really hungry.” 
powers, who last season was also a captain and a member of the all-big east second Team, said he is similarly hungry to improve his individual game. This year, he will focus on being a more aggressive, attacking offensive catalyst. 
“i watched a lot of film [during the offseason], and i thought to myself, ‘i seem pretty passive, more passive than i’d like to be,’” powers said. “i really worked on my ball skills and my [one-on-one] drib­bling at guys because i feel that i can already see the field pretty well and i have a good touch.” 
if powers can help the irish avoid the multitude of ties that derailed the team in 2011, notre dame may be able to construct a postseason run. and if powers can continue to develop into the more assertive, attacking playmaker that he envi­sions, he may have to stick with the appropriate jersey — no. 10. 
Contact Mike Monaco at             jmonaco@nd.edu 

“listen, that’s assuming we’re even going to do any of this stuff, oK, and when we’re go­ing to do it and when we’re go­ing to do it,” sparano said. “Just because we have a player in the building here that’s had some history running the football 
— not really in the wildcat, by the way — does not necessar­ily mean that’s exactly what it is that we’re going to do.” 
oh, the intrigue. 
even if they do use it a hand­ful of times a game, it probably wouldn’t radically change the Jets’ offense, right? 
“umm, talk to coach,” sanchez said, grinning. “i don’t know.” 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

YOUR COMIC HERE | 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Florence welch, 26; armie hammer, 26; Jack black, 43; shania Twain, 47. 
Happy Birthday: it’s time to turn up the volume and make a little noise. if you want something, speak up and let others know. socializing more will bring new friends, ideas and plans for the future. Take hold of whatever situation you face. own your life, instead of letting others make decisions for you. your numbers are 5, 12, 17, 20, 31, 38, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): pace yourself. helping someone is fine, unless your work suffers, making you look bad. you can advance by enlisting the help of some­one you can count on and focusing on your goals. a past acquaintance will come in handy. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): promoting, presenting and pushing what you want to do will turn out well, as long as you don’t let emotions stand in your way. accept criticism and implement what’s suggested. don’t let ego stop you from getting ahead. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): stick to your budget. you may have some great ideas that will improve your living arrangements, but if what you do is costly and adds to your financial stress, it won’t be worth it in the end. check out more cost-efficient lifestyles. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): let your imagination wander. implement some of the ideas you come up with to help you meet people who interest you personally or professionally. a contract can be written and signed that will help you financially. love is highlighted. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): mingle, and try new activities that are conducive to meeting people who share your interests or your professional goals. voicing your opinion will open doors that can bring about an offer that is too good to refuse. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): encourage others and you will get plenty of help to achieve your goals in return. include a diverse group of people in your plans. a chal­lenge will be exhilarating and prove that you are up for anything that comes your way. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): seeing is believing. making sense of a situation that is spinning out of control may be difficult if you don’t separate your emotions. stop ignoring facts and take action. you may need to make a move or change your goals. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): be careful when dealing with someone in a competitive position. giving away your secrets or ideas will leave you open to imitation. love is on the rise, and interacting with someone you love will feed your creativity. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): mixed signals may confuse you. ask questions before you promise something you’ll regret. greater opportunity to work as a team player or to broaden your relationships with people you find interesting is apparent. Try something new and challenge yourself. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): put together a plan that will allow you to budget wisely and bank more. consistency will count if you want to move forward. Too much waffling or impulsive action will be equally confining. Focus on what you can do in the moment. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Fix up your surroundings or pick up financial infor­mation that will help you prosper. speak up and share your thoughts with someone who is capable of helping you make personal changes. use your ability to maneuver into a favorable position. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): secrets are apparent, and it doesn’t matter whether it’s you or someone else withholding information; both cases will make you look bad or lead you in the wrong direction. step back and focus on love and having a little fun for now. 

Birthday Baby: you are enthusiastic, progressive and eager to take control. you are a doer. 

SUDOKU | The mepham group JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

YOUR COMIC HERE | 



worK area 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2012  | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Picking up the slack 
Irish coach Brian Kelly is counting on playmakers to make up for the loss of Cierre Wood 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
sports writer 
Following the suspension of senior running back cierre wood, some fresh faces will get their chance to shine in the season opener against navy on saturday. 
senior running back Theo riddick will move into the starter’s role after rushing for 63 yards on only 14 car­ries last season, while sopho­more running back george atkinson will slide into the backup’s spot. 
riddick was part of the irish receiving corps a year ago and has since moved to the running back-slot receiver hybrid position created this offseason. irish coach brian Kelly said he is not concerned about riddick’s transition or atkinson’s development. 
“Theo is obviously someone who has a lot of experience at the wide receiver position, so you have someone who is ex­tremely effective at catching the football,” Kelly said. “he is a guy that was bred for this position. 
“george is progressing every day. [before,] he was strictly the tailback, in the [i-formation], getting the ball seven and a half yards deep. now he’s moving into differ­ent venues as a receiver. he’s continued to evolve in that position.” 
in addition to riddick and atkinson, sophomore run­ning back cam mcdaniel has been exclusively working with the offense after temporar­ily switching to cornerback. meanwhile, sophomore run­ning back and usc transfer amir carlisle, hampered by an ankle injury, will not play against navy this saturday. 
“we’re very encouraged [by carlisle’s development],” Kelly said. “i’m very optimis­tic as we stand here right now that we may be close. … he’s a really good football player, and we don’t want to play him at 80 percent.” 
The active running backs will be counted on to re­place wood’s production first against navy and again a week later against purdue. last season, wood rushed for 1,102 yards and nine touch­downs on 217 carries. 
notre dame released a statement sunday confirm­ing not only the ban of wood for two games, but also a two-game suspension for junior defensive end Justin utupo. both players were suspended for violating team rules. 
“when we suspend some­body, i look at it in terms of ‘how are we going to get this young man to live up to 
see Kelly PAGE 16 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

belles to begin season at north park Tournament 
By NICK BOYLE sports writer  tournament will mark the begin­ning of a better season and a win- to grow as a team over the course of the season. right now we have a  “we want to tryout some dif­ferent things at the tournament,”  coming off a below-.500 season, Kuschel said she believes her team  
ning record in 2012.  great culture led by a strong group  the  fourth-year  coach  said.  has the ability to fare better in the  
saint mary’s kicks off its season  “our goal is to have a winning  of returning players.”  “everything is new for us now at  upcoming year.  
this weekend when the belles head  season this year,” belles coach Toni  The  non-conference  tourna­ the start of the season. we have  “we want to come out and push  
to chicago to participate in the  Kuschel said. “we’re looking to fin­ ment games at north park this  some new faces and we will get to  a little harder and expect a little bit  
north park Tournament.  ish with 14-plus wins and make  weekend will give saint mary’s a  see how they figure into our start-more from ourselves going into  
after finishing last season with a  the miaa conference tournament.  chance to test their mettle, Kuschel  ing rotation. it’s a good time for us  
record of 8-17, the belles hope this  most importantly, we really hope  said.  to figure out how we can win.”  see Kuschel PAGE 17  

MEN’S SOCCER 

Powers not going out quietly 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
Just as in the past three years, a new season means a new uniform number for irish senior midfielder and captain dillon powers. 
This season, the plano, Tex., native is wearing no. 10, an es­teemed number in the soccer tra­dition often worn by the attacking playmaker. 

“i’ve had a different number ev­ery year,” powers said. “i kind of did this in high school as well, and [no.] 10 is always a desired number in soccer, so i thought, ‘why not finish my senior year wearing [no.] 10?’” a disappointing 2011 campaign 
powers wore no. 22 as a fresh-when it did not qualify for the man, no. 8 as a sophomore and ncaa Tournament. no. 5 as a junior. he said he is hop-saturday’s season-opening 1-0 ing the newest number in 2012 win against then-no. 21 duke was will prompt different results for just the start notre dame wanted his irish squad, which concluded for the year, powers said. 

“starting off with a win [against duke] is huge for us,” powers said. “That was one of the things we’ve had on our list throughout the entire preseason. … we really 
see powers PAGE 18 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
nhim called upon to lead young irish 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
remove all underclassmen from the irish roster. only one name would remain — junior Kristina nhim. 
barely an upperclass­man this year, nhim will be the most experienced col­legiate golfer in the young notre dame lineup, which also includes three highly-recruited freshmen and two sophomores. nhim’s sophomore teammates, who proved themselves as strong golfers last season, are ashley armstrong and Kelli oride. 
nhim said she recogniz­es the difficulties inherent with being the team’s only upperclassman, but she be­lieves her sophomore team­mates will be helpful. 
“as the only junior on the team, i know it’ll be chal­lenging at times,” nhim said. “but, i do have [ashley armstrong and Kelli oride] to rely on for help, in terms of leading and setting an example.” 
with a tough schedule ahead, including four tour­naments in the fall season, nhim said she hopes she can be helpful with the many changes the freshmen will encounter. 
“my past experience being on the team will hopefully 
see nhim PAGE 16 




