The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 45 |WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
‘I just want to be home so bad’ 
Hurricane Sandy destroys East Coast hometowns and property of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students 
By JILL BARWICK AND MEGAN DOYLE 
saint mary’s editor and managing editor 
notre dame senior luke heneghan’s hometown of point lookout, n.y., sits on a barrier island with the atlantic ocean on one side and the raymond channel on the other side. 
on monday, the ocean and the channel waters met in the middle of the island. 
“The house is flooded real bad,” heneghan said. “The basement is completely flooded, like above the waist.” 
heneghan’s home was just one of thousands affected by superstorm sandy, which slammed into the east coast on monday. sandy began as a hurri­cane-level storm and had down­graded to a tropical storm by the time it hit land, but its power has wreaked havoc on the northeast­ern coastline since sunday night. 
“i just want to be home so bad,” heneghan said. “my dad was there for 30 years, and it’s the worst he’s ever seen. … he was saying, like everybody in town, it looks like a war zone.” 
heneghan’s parents stayed in their home through sandy’s storm and have safely come through the worst. Their town, however, has seen significant damage. he de­scribed cars flooded in driveways and lost kayaks floating through the streets. The family will be without power for at least a week, he said. 
“it’s just amazing that every­one’s alive,” he said. 
saint mary’s senior Tara Fulton, whose family resides in sicklerville, n.J., about 30 min­utes from atlantic city, frequently checked in with her parents and news reports throughout the day monday. 
“my parents prepared for the storm by buying extra water and food that did not need to be kept cold in case of power outages,” Fulton said. “They took in all of the lawn furniture and anything that was in our yard that might blow away from the high winds the hurricane caused. my dad also went and bought a generator in the event the power went out dur­ing the storm.” 
Fulton’s father, who works at a ups in philadelphia international airport, was shocked to find out that the store was closed and the airport was shut down. 
“no one is allowed to drive on the roads at home because there is a state emergency in new Jersey,” Fulton said. “all of the bridges in and out of new Jersey and pennsylvania were closed down until the early morning.” 
notre dame senior Jamie murray and saint mary’s senior caroline gallagher both said their neighborhoods in new canaan, conn., also felt the effects of sandy’s storms. 


“a tree hit my dad’s house and also blocked the driveway so that my family could not leave their house,” gallagher said. “my town has been okay so far, how­ever, there are tons of electric lines down and everyone has been on a ‘curfew’ since monday at noon. almost everyone lost power, but by some miracle, my mom has not yet.” 
gallagher, who spent her 
see sandy PAGE 5 



SMC hosts a haunted past 
By HAYLEY MILLER 
news writer 
in daylight, saint mary’s is peaceful, historic. 
But when students shut off the lights, centuries-old legends awake in the night. 
This halloween, campus staff and students shared the lesser-known ghost stories preserved in saint mary’s oral tradition. 
Freshmen living in Queen’s court in le mans hall may get to meet mary, a student who alleged­ly hung herself in the dorm many years ago. 
Freshman Julie galvin, who currently lives in mary’s supposed room in Queen’s court, said she believes she saw mary late one night. 
“it was around 2 a.m. and out of the corner of my eye i saw a profile of a woman with a greenish tint,” galvin said. “she was standing by my roommate’s bed staring at the 


wall.” galvin said the image vanished 
see haunTed PAGE 5 


ELECTION 2012 

mullen seeks election to congress 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
news editor 

duty, honor, country. 
as a west point graduate, democratic congressional can­didate Brendan mullen abides by those three words, which “reverently dictate what you ought to be, what you will be and what you can be,” accord­ing to a famous quote from gen. douglas macarthur. 
mullen said that quote and his personal connection to it also drive his campaign to become 
indiana’s next representative for the 2nd congressional district, 

which includes south Bend. “[duty, honor and country] are your rallying points when 
see mullen PAGE 5 


news PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 hocKey PAGE 16 FooTBall PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What are you going to be for Halloween? 

Michael Thompson 
junior 
Knott 
“T.J. dean.” 
Claire Wiley 
freshman 
paasquerilla-east 
“Barney stinson...suit up!” 
Lindsay McSweeney 
junior Breen-phillips 
“Joe dirt.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Ariel Etienne 
freshman 
pasquerilla-east 
“my entire section is going as 50 shades of grey. we are all wearing different shades of grey.” 
Niall Platt 
junior 
Keenan 
“myself.” 
Zack Cox 
freshman 
stanford 
“The avengers.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Jillian Barwick Joe wirth Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Bridget Feeney mike monaco sarah swiderski Joseph monardo 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
steph wulz Troy mathews 
Photo Viewpoint 

Jewish Religious A Time to Heal Dinner Readings from Nuclear Accelerator U.S. Army Field Band 
sarah o’connor caroline lang 
Expression in ND Stadium Dante’s “Divine Tours and Soldier’s Chorus Byzantine Palestine 5 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Comedy” 124 Nieuwland Hall DeBartolo Performing McKenna Hall Foster community Campus-wide 10 a.m. - 1 p.m. Arts Center 
Corrections 

2 p.m. - 7 p.m. healing against sexual 2 p.m. - 5 p.m. Tours leave every 15 2 p.m. -3:30 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as Register online. violence. Public performance. minutes. Free concert. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Know Your Rights as El Día de los Muertos ND Chorale Concert BINGO Hockey Game 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
an Author” Hesburgh Center DeBartolo Performing LaFortune Student Compton Family Ice 
however, recognize that we will make 
Geddes Hall 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Arts Center Center Arena 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
4 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Day of the Dead 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. 10 p.m. - 1 a.m. 5:05 p.m. - 7:05 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Lecture by Nick festivities. Free and Renaissance to Free and open ND vs. Western 
we can correct our error. 

Shockey. open to the public. present-day works. to all students.         Michigan 


Professor analyzes NGOs in Kenya 
By DAN BROMBACH 
news writer 
with their works “making democracy work” and “democracy in america,” polit­ical scientists robert putnam and alexis de Tocqueville re­spectively laid out theories on the positive relationship between civil society and more efficient, democratic governance within developed nations.  
in her lecture Tuesday ti­tled “ngos, civil society and democratic participation in Kenya,” indiana university professor Jennifer Brass argued these theories from putnam and Tocqueville are equal­ly applicable to the world’s less-established nations. 
Brass said the increase of non-governmental organiza­tions (ngos) in Kenya has re­sulted in a bolstering of civil society and a rise in democrat­ic participation in the areas in which these organizations are concentrated.  she used the Kenyan definition of an ngo as a “private voluntary group­ing of individuals or associa­tions not operated for profit or for other commercial purpos­es but which have organized themselves nationally or inter­nationally for the benefit of the public at large.” 
Brass backed up her positive findings with the results of a survey she administered to 501 adults across three districts in Kenya, asking questions about their interactions with ngos as well as about their recent political behavior. 
The survey revealed respon­dents in areas where ngos visited two or more times were 27 percent more likely to par­ticipate in a political protest or demonstration than those without ngo exposure. 
Brass said this significant ef­fect of ngos on the likelihood of protesting in Kenya shows established theories about the relationship between ngos, civil society and democratic participation are valid in the case of developing nations. 
“it shows ngos can be con­sidered to be civil society actors … that participatory development does have spill­over effects into the political realm,” Brass said. 
despite the correlation between ngos and greater political and democratic par­ticipation, Brass said ngos are mainly concerned with issues of general development and of improving standards of living. 
“looking at Kenya, what’s interesting is most ngos are not doing explicitly political work,” Brass said. 
Brass said ngos are steadi­ly gaining more control over areas in Kenya traditionally thought to be the responsi­bilities of local and national governments. 
“looking at core policy ser­vices that we think states provide, we have ngos ei­ther by themselves or jointly providing about 10 percent of services in education, 12 per­cent in healthcare and about 20 percent in security,” Brass said. 
Brass concluded the lecture by saying that the nearly ex­ponential increase in Kenyan ngos reflects the broader trend of donors favoring these organizations over govern­ments when it comes to aid provision.  Brass said donors view ngos as more account­able, cost-effective, par­ticipatory and in touch with grassroots communities. 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 

speaker gives five-step plan for success 
she emphasized following pas-
By MADDIE DALY 

news writer sions and finding niches. 
“you cannot start your career 

Future businessmen and busi-without knowing who you are nesswomen flocked to Jordan as a person,” robb said. “i be-auditorium on Tuesday to listen to gan working at atari when video new Zealander sarah robb speak games were upcoming and popu­on her ultra-successful career lar, but i didn’t think about the in entrepreneurial insights. she fact that i hated video games. i organized her talk around five had never played them and had a specific steps that helped her to tough time fitting in and getting where she is today: the president ideas across. got fired. it’s just an of equinox Fitness. awesome, awesome moment in 
robb’s first point was to “know your late 20s when you think you who you are and who you are not.” know what’s going on and you 
paid adverTisemenT 


lose your job.” industry became a billion-dollar shortly after this low point, industry about two years ago, ac­
robb went to nike, which she said cording to robb, nike refused 
ended up being a much better fit to join in because of the fake 
for her. technology. “nike was a place i had dreamed “nike is one of the best exam-
of working at, and not surprisingly ples in the world of knowing who 
went from being a massive failure they are, which is being inspira­
at atari to quite successful, sur-tion and innovation for athletes,” 
rounded by people with similar robb said. “The whole toning shoe 
values and passions,” robb said. business has imploded and nike robb said she admired nike’s has avoided it because of their 
courage to say no, even when courage.” 
under extreme pressure.  For ex-secondly, robb said she believes 
ample, when the toning-shoes in understanding the consumer better than anyone else. she em­phasized the idea of focusing on micro-communities instead of always equating large-scale with success. “Knowing your consumer and micro-community intimately can drive innovation and growth,” robb said. “virgin airlines, for ex­ample, focused on a very specific, creative customer and only flew to places they knew these people lived.  This consumer focus en­ables virgin to redefine them­selves into the entertainment business.” having worked for virgin airlines early in her career, robb said she noticed how successful they were even with such a small consumer base. however, having such a specific audience allowed them to tailor their services to these people, making the flying experience one of entertainment rather than stressful tedium. “do something spectacular for a few, instead of something average for many,” robb said. “i’m so super passionate about this i can’t even describe to you. There are so many companies out there that focus completely on scale that they’re not really offering anything useful to their customers.” robb piggybacked onto this idea the topic of social media. she said she believes that social media has been around forever and is just now taking on a new form. “we’ve always been influenced by the people around us, the people we trust and the people whose opinions we care most 
about. social media is the same as that behavior just on a really giant scale,” robb said. “and i think it’s the most exciting economic era we 
“You cannot start your career without knowing who you are as a person.” 
Sarah Robb 
president 
Equinox Fitness 
could be going into.” 
robb then told the audience to not be afraid to change things up. she used her experience with gatorade to highlight this point. 
“gatorade was started for foot­ball players. it was purely created to make athletes better,” robb said.  “so after gatorade spread to all the athletes in every sport, it eventually spread to places like wal-mart. This massive growth was not a good thing, especially with the economic crisis of 2008, which of course is exactly when i joined the company.” 
robb explained that although the economy severely hurt sales, it was the non-athletes that were cutting back, which is actually what gatorade wanted. 
“we asked our loyal custom­ers what they thought about our company, and all of them said they had a deep trust for the brand but wished for new things from us. That’s when we introduced the g series, specific to athletes,” robb said. 
robb concluded with her fifth concept: “what you give is what you get.” 
“you must consciously think about the communities you’re serving. one consumer who ex­emplifies the brand can inspire many, create loyalty in the long term,” robb said. “Business is not about making money; it’s about doing what matters to you.” 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 



The oBserver | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Dining halls aim to reduce food waste 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
if you’re reading this while eating a meal at north or south dining hall, stop for a moment and check your plate. 
how many ounces of food are on it? and how many ounces will still be on it when you place your tray on one of the tray returns? 
waste Free wednesdays, a semi-annual campaign to decrease food waste sponsored by the office of sustainability, Food services and greend, was started in the hopes that the answer to the latter question will shrink each time a student leaves the dining hall. 
“our overall goal is to re­duce waste,” campaign co-chair anna gorman said. “Basically we want to get it as small as possible. ideally it would be zero but that’s obvi­ously not plausible.” 
For one month each semes­ter, volunteers stand at the dining hall tray returns each wednesday between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. if a student walks up with no leftover food on his or her tray, the individual is given a raffle ticket. 
each campaign, one winner from the pool of raffle tickets is selected to win $100 in flex points. 
“There are certain things we don’t count as waste, such as banana peels or chicken bones,” gorman said. “But others, like even egg whites, do count as waste.” 
“waste weigh-ins,” to as­certain the average amount of food a student wastes, oc­cur once during the week be­fore the campaign begins as well as after it ends, gorman said, in order to judge the ef­fectiveness of the project. 
“i think people do make an extra concentrated effort [during the campaign],” she said. “it’s not necessarily as lasting as i think we’re aiming for just in terms of how they bring it into when they’re not eating at the dining hall or things like that … But it defi­nitely has a little bit of a fol­lowing that knows what it is and is glad to reduce waste.” 
waste Free wednesdays began in the fall of 2010 af­ter research showed the large amounts of food being thrown away by students in the din­ing halls, gorman said. 
in the fall of 2011, Food services took the campaign one step further when it shrunk the size of the dining hall trays. 



“when the trays were re­placed, that was also part of the campaign to stop waste,” gorman said. “Before the trays [were shrunk], 4.64 ounces per person was the average waste from both din­ing halls. after, it went to 4.22 ounces.” 
gorman said notre dame ought to become more 
paid adverTisemenT 
conscious of the amount of food it wastes as a catholic university. “i think it’s about one in six americans strug­gle with hunger, and we as a university waste a total of about 1.2 tons of food each day,” she said. “it’s just some­thing that hit home for me, and i think it’s more relevant to people than they realize.” 
For students to participate in the effort to decrease notre dame’s food waste, they sim­ply need to think for a sec­ond before they place an item on their dining hall trays, gorman said. 
“it’s mainly just being con­scious of what you’re picking up,” she said. “it’s all about making a conscious effort to reduce waste.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 



Sandy 
conTinued From page 1 
summer in new york city at her apartment on east 34th street in manhattan, close to where tremendous flooding has oc­curred since the hurricane hit the coast, was also nervous about what would happen to that neighborhood. 
“i could not find out any in­formation other than what was being broadcasted on the Tv on monday,” she said. “all i could think about was my family and friends during the day. There are so many people that have been di­rectly impacted by the storm and at different severities.” 
murray said her father is unsure when he will be able to return to work in his new york city office. 
“The train lines are shut down, the city is shut down,” she said. 
murray’s family in connecticut will be without power for between 10 to 14 days, she said. 
“it’s important to remember that it’s still an island, and this was definitely a reminder of that,” murray said. “[new york city] is still susceptible to the ocean and its storms. it’s such a heart of the east coast for my area, and when it’s under stress everything can feel it.” 
christina grasso, a saint mary’s graduate, now lives in lower manhattan and was part of Zone a, the areas in which mayor Bloomberg ordered a mandatory evacuation for residents. 
“i was cautious but truly did not expect it to be quite so disastrous having lived through hurricane irene here last year,” grasso said. “as a result, i just stocked up on water and candles and made sure all of my electronics were fully charged as the power is out indefinitely.” 
grasso, as well as others in her neighborhood, did not follow the mayor’s repeated urgings to par­take in the mandatory evacua­tions established in her area. she, like many others, did not antici­pate the damage to be so severe. 
“Throughout the day monday, it was windy and rainy,” grasso said. “everything came to a head around 7 p.m. when lower manhattan be­gan to flood severely. There were cars fully submerged and floating down surrounding streets in what looked like almost 10 feet of water.” 
as of monday night, grasso was stranded in her apartment build­ing with her lobby under at least a foot of seawater. 
“i am hoping to regain power and have the ability to venture outside of my apartment build­ing without having to swim to get to the nearest location,” she said. “The sooner i can get out, the better.” 
grasso noted how extremely saddening it was to watch new york city, “a place that has been through so much, get hit by such a destructive storm.” 
“This city has the strength and resilience to rebound from just about anything, but it is disheart­ening to watch everything unfold firsthand and worry about others who might be in greater danger,” grasso said. 
while friends and family of saint mary’s students on the east coast are beginning to wade through the destruction, the college offered prayer services during mass on monday and Tuesday nights. 
Judy Fean, the director of campus ministry at the college, sent an email on monday notify­ing students about the masses as well as including links for those who want to make donations for hurricane relief. Fean added that campus ministry will take up a collection at masses on nov. 4. 
notre dame senior mara catlaw said she has only been able to text her family back in interlaken, n.J., as the flood waters in her town recede. 
“The whole county is pretty much just a wreck,” she said. “our house is about a mile from the ocean, the whole boardwalk is pretty ripped up.” 
catlaw will be able to see the damage for herself when she re­turns home for Thanksgiving break. her family might still be out of power then, she said. 
“[my mom] walked around a lit­tle bit and really can’t believe how horrible it is,” she said. “she said we’re lucky that our house is still standing.” 
Contact Jill Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu and Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Mullen 
conTinued From page 1 
your faith is forlorn and you’ve lost hope,” mullen said. “This is a case where i apply those words to why i’m doing this for the community that gave me more blessings than i deserve.” 
a south Bend native, mullen dreamed of playing football for the irish, but his collegiate ath­letic career took a different path when he chose to attend the 
u.s. military academy. 
“when you grow up a mile away all you wanted to do was run through the tunnel [in notre dame stadium],” mullen said. “[Former irish coach lou] holtz didn’t call, but the army team did … and before i knew it i had a shaved head and was shining boots at 2 a.m. behind the walls of the academy.” 
after graduating from west point, mullen served in south Korea and iraq. he said his army service forced him to cooperate with fellow soldiers from “all walks of life, religions, personalities and political views that encompassed america” on behalf of their country. 

“i as a soldier know full well that when you command young men and women in stressful en­vironments, stateside or over­seas, you all don’t really agree 100 percent on everything,” he said. “i have to take my experi­ences from serving with com­panies and apply them to my work in the halls of congress.” 
mullen said the collabora­tive nature of his military ex­perience gives him a greater understanding of the signifi­cance of working together in congress than many of its cur­rent members. 
“in congress today, we have professional politicians that have spent years litigating is­sues, but we don’t have busi­nessmen, nor do we have folks who have stitched that flag and served honorably,” mullen said. “having only 20 percent of elected officials who have worn that uniform is unacceptable because they don’t know how to 
paid adverTisemenT 

work together in stressful envi­ronments with people from dif­ferent walks of life.” 
as a moderate democrat, mullen said he hopes to con­tinue the longstanding tradi­tion of moderate representation from his district established by former representatives John Brademas, Jack hiler, Tim roemer, chris chocola and Joe donnelly. 
he said his primary op­ponent, republican Jackie walorski, has not espoused the same moderate mindset in her campaign. 
“i’m fearful Jackie walorski will not represent that moder­ate voice because she’s wrapped herself around that Tea party flag so tightly that it’s difficult to move beyond that record and the finger-in-your-face legisla­tive manner she’s had,” mullen said. 
But as a moderate democrat, mullen said he understands his moderation will frustrate con­stituents from both ends of the political spectrum. 
“when i launched my bid to run 18 months ago at wndu, i stopped myself at the glass doors and definitively said, ‘what am i getting myself into?’” mullen said. “The day i walk into this, 50 percent of folks are going to dislike me because i put a ‘d’ next to my name. meanwhile, i’m trying to get into an institution that eight percent of americans approve of, [congress,] so i’m going from 100 percent down to dirt.” 
That unacceptably low ap­proval rating for congress, mullen said, is rooted in the fail­ure of legislators from both the right and the left to collaborate to act on behalf of the people and move the country forward. 
“By championing myself as a moderate, i’m trying to thread a needle. But it’s difficult to thread that needle from 50 yards away,” mullen said. “i know full well i’ll make my republican and democrat friends mad at me, but there’s no monopoly on good ideas, so we need to be able to come to the middle and get things done.” 
improving the economy and job creation are priorities for mullen, but he said achieving those goals will require more equality of opportunity for middle-class americans and small business owners so they can “continue to have success in chasing the american dream and reigniting it for them­selves, their families and their employers.” 
“we need to stay laser-focused on the economy and jobs, but the only way to do so is to make sure we level the playing field for middle- and working-class americans,” mullen said. “Big oil and wall street have had it tilted in their favor, but that isn’t going to continue to stimu­late the economy. The only way to stimulate main street econo­mies is to elect people who are willing to work together.” 
notre dame is the no. 1 employer in the district, and mullen said he would work hard to represent the university and its hometown in congress. 
“Knowing the university is a bridge to south Bend … if we can continue to bridge that gap and there’s a possibility for federal help with doing so, i’ll be absolutely the first to do it,” mullen said. “mayor pete Buttigieg is a dear friend of mine, and he has a red phone in his office. when he needs to call washington i’ll be on the other end of it, and when he calls the other red phone for the senate, [democratic candidate for senate] Joe donnelly will be on the other end of it.” 
although south Bend is the metropolitan center of the dis­trict, mullen said both he and donnelly must strive to con­nect with the region’s other communities. 
“we’re both south Bend guys, but while south Bend and notre dame are extraordinarily im­portant, our work transcends to 10 other counties in the dis­trict,” mullen said. “we must ensure that we have bonds to the outside areas of the district.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

Haunted 
conTinued From page 1 
very quickly. 
“iwas a little freaked out, but it was a very beautiful image,” she said. 
on the college grounds, saint mary’s archivist John Kovach said a family named mccomb once lived on the land that is now lake marian, which was sold to the sisters of the holy cross in the early 1800s. as the construction crew was digging the new lake, Kovach said they found the remains of a woman’s body with hair still attached to the skull. 
“no one knows if the woman found was part of the mccomb family, but her body remains to this day below the south end of lake marian,” Kovach said. “now, on a foggy night, if you look closely at the rippling water, you can see the re­flection of a victorian woman.” 
high above the rest of these sites is the bell tower of le mans hall built in the late 1800s — one of the most haunted spots in indiana. 
hambling said saint mary’s ghost stories tell of two people who hung themselves in the bell tower, and if one was to look up at the tower in the dead of night, he or she might see the shape of a hanging body. 
lisa schmidt-goessling, hall di­rector for le mans hall, has lived be­low the tower since July 2004. 
“For the first couple months i lived here, though i always thought i heard footsteps in the tower above me,” schmidt-goessling said. “ikept asking security to go check it out.” 
as the overseer of all maintenance and utilities, hambling said he be­lieves there are logical explanations for many of the “spooky” noises that can be heard around campus. 
“There are pipes that run through the walls, loud heaters in the attic, and large steel doors that can sound like dungeon gates,” hambling said. “many of these buildings are very old with many utility systems; they are bound to be some creaks and groans.” 
however, Kovach takes a different approach. 
“There are things in this world that cannot be explained,” Kovach said. 
Contact Hayley Miller at hmille01@saintmarys.edu 

Romney for president

INSIDE COLUMN 

Ankur Chawla 
scene writer 

Today is one of my favorite holidays of the year (behind st. patrick’s day and the first football game of the season, of course.) halloween is a time of candy, horror and humor, and sometimes it’s tough coming up with the right cos­tume. so you don’t pull a cady heron from “mean girls” and show up in a completely socially unacceptable cos­tume, here is my list of the top 10 cos­tumes of the year. 
10. The Tune squad. “space Jam” is one of my all time favorite movies, and any group that puts together the Tune squad to take down the monstars is an accomplishment. Bonus points for hav­ing michael Jordan show up. 
9. memes in real life. over the past few years, memes have become an ac­cepted form of communication and social commentary. memes in real life, “overly attached girlfriend” or “good guy greg,” for instance are both rel­evant and hilarious. i personally will be “ridiculously photogenic guy.” 
8. The avengers. The biggest block­buster of the summer provides half a dozen easy costume ideas if you’re going solo or as a team if you have a band of five guys. plus, you’ll be needed to take down number 7 … 
7. Bane. it’s not important what your costume is; what matters is your plan. Just kidding. practice his voice if you want to pull this off, though. 
6. aladdin. disney classics never go out of style, and we all know aladdin is not only the greatest disney movie but also the studliest character of all time. speaking from experience, 60 percent of the time this costume works every time. 
5. anyone from our defensive front seven. our defense has been scary good through the first eight games, and any team’s offense would tremble at the sight of you. one of my personal favorite “college gameday” posters was, “why was 6 afraid of 7? Because 7 is stephon Tuitt.” 
4. mcKayla maroney. spend halloween being unimpressed with ev­eryone as the gymnastics star famously was after getting the silver medal. 
3. romney/obama. politics are always a frightful sight, and it’s always easy to poke fun at the two presidential candi­dates. don’t forget to bring a binder full of women if you try to be romney. 
2. hurricane sandy. The winds and rain have been terrifying even in the midwest, a thousand miles away from the hurricane’s epicenter. Too soon though? 
1. psy. gangnam style. 
John Sandberg 
Fisherman’s musings 

i don’t love mitt romney, but i am go­ing to vote for him. 
at the risk of sounding too sentimental, it’s funny how this year’s election fits into the realities of growing older. 
ever since i caught the politics bug in mrs. Figg’s u.s. government class, i looked forward to the day when i’d vote for president. Just as young voters pro­claimed “i like ike” in 1956 and others made themselves “clean for gene” in ‘68, i looked forward to the day when i would campaign with similar enthusiasm. 
But as i’ve learned recently, the gift of growing older comes with the realization that things in life are rarely as glamorous as they once seemed. 
The most inspirational athlete of my generation turned out to be a cheater, not everyone gets their dream job after col­lege, and presidential elections aren’t as uplifting as i thought they would be. 
This year’s campaign has largely been a competition between two well-educated men, each trying to win your vote by scaring you away from the other guy. if today’s campaign model were applied to 1956, eisenhower supporters would have changed ‘i like ike’ into ‘i’m afraid of adlai.’ 
For months i was undecided on whom to vote for, and i wore that indecision with pride. with so much at stake i waited patiently for president obama or romney to earn my vote, the type of vote which each of them holds so dear — that of the independent voter. 
The moment of enlightenment never came. maybe the external environment of this election has made things different from the elections of the past, or maybe i was expecting too much. in either case, each candidate left me wanting some­thing more. 
still, we have two choices of who has the best chance of putting the country back on track in a time of unparalleled uncertainty. and that’s why i’m voting for mitt romney. This won’t be the stron­gest endorsement he receives, but in a time when white-hot political blustering seems to be the norm, i’ve chosen mea­sured, lukewarm support instead. 
From day one this election has been about the economy. nothing else will matter as long as americans are dis­content and out of work. and as a young american in particular, i’m voting for the person who is going to reduce the mount­ing and potentially debilitating burden of debt. 
i’m no expert on economic policy or job creation, but i do know much of romney’s time in the private sector was spent on getting struggling businesses up and running again. and from what i un­derstand, he was very good at it. 
america is in need of a problem-solver. i don’t resent president obama, but i do think it’s time for a change. when it comes to fixing unemployment and reducing wasteful spending, mitt’s my man. 
i have my reservations, to be sure. romney’s lack of foreign policy experi­ence cannot be ignored. and i wish romney shared obama’s commitment to clean energy and the environment. 
even more so than leading the country, i’m concerned about romney leading a party that seems to be more extreme every day. i’m all in favor of lean gov­ernment and low taxes but today’s republican party is more about uncom­promising government and no taxes. 

That’s simply not leadership, and i hope romney realizes it. 
david Brooks wrote Tuesday in the new york Times that, if elected, romney is more likely than obama to get “big stuff done” by compromising with democrats in congress and pull­ing radically-right republicans to the center with him. reluctant as they may be, none of the most conservative mem­bers of congress will want to destroy a republican president. 
The core lesson of romney’s campaign, Brooks wrote, has been: “conservatism loses; moderation wins.” 
i can only hope that proves true in a romney white house. 
as for some of the more popular criti­cisms of romney the person — i’m not buying them. he is a man of sound per­sonal values, uncommon intelligence and work ethic and deep appreciation for his country. i’m well aware of some of romney’s poorly-worded remarks throughout the campaign, but far too much has been made of his wealth and supposed inability to empathize with average americans. 
no, i don’t love mitt romney. But in washington these days, when we’re all just looking for someone to get things accomplished, i don’t need someone to love. i don’t need someone to have a beer with or sit next to at a ballgame — i need a president. 
and in mitt romney i believe i’ve found one. 
John Sandberg is a junior political sci­ence major from Littleton, Colo. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“Be not afraid of greatness: some men are who is your favorite football player? born great, some achieve greatness and some have greatness thrust upon them.” 
William Shakespeare Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll English dramatist & poet by 5 p.m. on Thursday 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

cheers for children 
dear notre dame Family, 

as you know, this past weekend the notre dame football team played the oklahoma sooners in norman, okla. on the Friday before the game, the Band of the Fighting irish, along with the cheerleaders and the support staff, made a special stop at the children’s center in Bethany. 
Founded in 1898, the children’s center is a private, nonprofit hospital serving children with complex medical and physical disabilities from the entire state of oklahoma and surrounding states. The band and the cheerleaders invited several of our patients to march with them around the hospital before performing a special concert. more than 500 patients, family members and employees of the center watched in awe. one of those patients was seven-year-old Fletcher Burns. Fletcher had the awesome opportunity of marching alongside the irish guard. Born with epidermal nevus syndrome, a rare skin disorder, Fletcher’s appearance is very differ­ent from most children. he requires a ventilator to breathe and his body is much smaller than typically-developing children who are of his same age. none of this kept Fletcher and the irish guard from having an unforget­table time together. 
They treated Fletcher with the respect and kindness all children with a disability should receive. The interaction with everyone involved was truly emotional. This was a once-in-a-lifetime experience for Fletcher and our other patients. They would never have been able to travel to see a march­ing band with such tradition and grace. 
as the chief financial officer of the children’s center and a 2005 domer, my heart was filled with pride, admiration and humility for the sacrifices the band and the cheerleaders made to perform for the children. For a short video of the visit, please go to http://youtu.be/yn11snaJpvk. 
The Band of the Fighting irish and the entire notre dame community has left an indelible mark on the patients, their families and the staff at the children’s center. 
students and alumni everywhere should feel proud. we are humbled and grateful for this magnificent experience. may god continue to bless all of you in your endeavors. 
Michael Milligan 
chief Financial officer The children’s center class of 2005 oct. 30 
hypocrisy of obama 
leila green wrote in her oct. 30 article, “The morality of mitt,” that “obama is by no means perfect.” This concluded her criticism of the presi­dent’s morality, as she took the president at his word regarding his support for freedom, equal rights and dedication to alleviating poverty. 
however, a thorough analysis requires less attention to rhetoric and more attention to reality. 
president obama promised in 2008 that within the first 100 days of his presidency he would close the guantanamo Bay detention camp, notorious for torture of alleged terrorists. as of sept. 2012, 167 detainees remain there. 
president obama pledged to close the wage gap between men and women by signing the lily ledbetter act. yet president obama pays his own female staff 17 percent less than he pays his male staff. 
president obama pledged his support for equal rights for women. yet president obama opposed the pre-natal nondiscrimination act, which would have protected thousands of girls from being killed in utero because of their sex. 
president obama declared this may that he supports gay rights. yet last Friday, he said in an mTv interview that “it would be up to future genera­tions of americans to implement meaningful reform,” rather than his administration. 
president obama declares that he tolerates the beliefs of all people. yet president obama is forcing religious institutions to violate their consciences by paying for contraceptives and abortifacient drugs. 
president obama says as commander in chief he supports the troops. yet president obama denied security to the us consulate in Benghazi and furthermore denied support when it was attacked, resulting in the deaths of four americans, including ambassador christopher stevens. 
president obama says he cares for the plight of the poor and unemployed. yet under president obama, the poverty rate has risen by 1.8 percentage points. 
ms. green’s article displayed a shallow, fallacious and naïve understand­ing of both morality and the candidates’ policies. yes, governor romney tempers his morality to appeal to a broader base of people, but president obama has no morality — only plenty of hypocrisy. 
Caroline Jansen 
sophomore cavanaugh hall oct. 30 
UWIRE 
Editorial Board 
The daily Free press 

a recent study conducted by the national Bureau of economic research found that students who are popular in high school are more finan­cially successful later in life, according to an ar­ticle in The wall street Journal on Tuesday. 
popularity helps because “those who learn to play the game in high school are figuring out what they need to know to succeed when they enter the workplace,” according to The wall street Journal. 
popular students are typically strong com­municators, which is a skill that would benefit them in the workplace. in order to enter certain fields nowadays, jobseekers must be able to net­work. someone with strong interpersonal skills would probably be more successful at forming relationships with experts in his or her field than 
Popularity pays 
someone who does not have those skills. strong communicators might also form better working relationships with their bosses and coworkers. Those relationships could lead to job promotions or simply a better work environment. popular kids also tend to have high self-esteem, which is another trait employers find attractive. someone who is confident in his or her skills comes across as more knowledgeable and professional than someone who lacks confidence. confident em­ployees would probably be rewarded with better job offers than timid employees. 
however, popularity is fleeting. Just because someone was popular among his or her high school peers does not mean he or she will be popular among adults. perhaps he or she lacks the composure or maturity that adult conversa­tions require. popularity also depends on factors other than personality — physical appearance and socio-economic status for instance. how can researchers make a statement about something so variable as popularity? The results of this study seem less convincing because there are so many factors that affect popularity and even more fac­tors that affect success. 
not everyone who was popular in high school is going to be financially successful, just as not ev­eryone who was unpopular is going to live a life of financial ruin. while it makes sense that someone with strong interpersonal skills would be more successful in or her career, those skills can be possessed by both popular and unpopular high schoolers. 
This column originally ran in the Oct. 24 edition of the The Daily Free Press, serving Boston University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 





Cloud Fine 
By JES CHRISTIAN 

scene writer want something that will last longer than a candy dress but will be just as much fun to rip a page from the book of “project runway” challenges and make your costume make? grab the same products, but instead of yourself. don’t be afraid to step out on a limb and try some of these cool suggestions candy, try grabbing some cotton stuffing from 
— you’ll end up with a unique look that’s fun and shows off your creative side. your local art supply store like michael’s. add some different colored wash-out hair dye canis-Project Fun Way ters to your shopping bag and you’re all set. use 
ladies, you’ve seen them appear as a growing trend your duct tape platform, whether it is a dress or for various dorm dances and themed events around some other creative piece of duct tape clothing, campus. i’m talking about duct-tape dresses. They’re and begin gluing the stuffing to the dress. in less awesome ways to create a custom look that no one than an hour you’ll have yourself a wispy white else can get their hands on, but how about adding piece of wonderland and a variety of possibili­even more individuality? want a cool halloween proj-ties for how you can use it. Try teasing out your ect that you and all of your friends can do together? hair, adding some soft makeup, incorporating Try using duct-tape dresses as a foundation to lay the number nine somewhere into the look, and 
Image courtesy of fanpop.com candy on. all you need for this diy project is duct going as “cloud nine.” if you want to be even more creative, take individual pieces tape, whatever types of candy you want to use and of cotton stuffing and dye them with the hair dye. use colorful makeup and acces-
Image courtesy of mylifetime.com

strong glue (i would suggest trying to get your hands on a glue gun if possible). once sories and go as cotton candy (bonus points if your name is candace). not feeling you have those things, glue away! need some inspiration? Try looking at fabric dress-it? Try buying a colorful wig to go with your dress and going as the Katy perry from es with cool designs and mimic them with the candy that you choose. The end result the “california gurls” video. The list of possibilities is endless, so try it out and have will be nothing short of fabulous, and you’ll have tons of flexibility when it comes to some fun! choosing what you actually want to be. Team up with your friends, and you’re sure to be the best candy land collaboration on the streets this halloween. Contact Jes Christian at jchrist7@nd.edu 

By SEAN FITZGERALD scene writer  into the shape of a lightning bolt. Facial hair is not required, but highly encour- By CLAIRE STEPHENS scene writer  pop pills from a prescription bottle full of Tic-Tacs.  
aged. if for some reason you have a trident  
Secret Service Agent  in your room, poseidon is also an option.  so you want to get in the halloween  Ke$ha  
it’s time to take that suit out of your  spirit, but don’t want to do any real  girls, wear a less-classy version of what  
closet and use it for something other than  Miss America  work or spend any money? easy. There  you were going to wear out, with a lot of  
interviews. put an earbud in one ear and  if you have a beautiful gown in your  are plenty of costumes you can make in  glitter and all the gaudy accessories you  
talk into your wrist. make sure to keep  closet and are willing to brave the ele­ which laziness it part of their charm.  can manage.  
people away from any presidents walking  ments in heels (this might be a very hard  
around, especially those ninjas.  task), then all you need is the sash and a  Wear your SYR costume  Life  
crown. if you’re really daring, you could  you don’t really have any other reason  write “liFe” on a shirt or hat, and hand  
50 Shades of Grey  try to compete in the swimsuit part of  to dress as a cowboy, pirate or charioteer,  out lemons all night. The dining hall  
if you have a plethora of grey clothes ly­ the competition. remember to limit your  nor will you have the opportunity to dress  might only have limes, so paint them yel­ 
ing around, this one might be for you. you  “ums” and “likes” when speaking.  as a catholic school kid, Kentucky derby  low if you don’t want to leave campus.  
might need to explain yourself once or  fan or ‘70s disco diva anytime soon.  
twice, but if you brought some handcuffs  Psy in “Gangnam Style”  support sustainability and recycle those  The Black Eyed Peas  
along, the costume would be complete.  he wore so many different outfits, so  outfits.  write a “p” on your shirt and paint one  
we won’t question where you got those  you can take your pick. The easiest one  of your eyes black. This costume works  
handcuffs.  would be to obtain dark sunglasses, a  Toilet paper mummy  best in groups of at least two.  
dark suit with a black shirt and an untied  Be sure to use lots of tape. and have a  
Greek God/Goddess  white bowtie. if you can’t obtain a bowtie,  back-up jacket for when your costume  Cereal killer  
This is a great way to recycle that bed  cut out some paper in the shape of a bow  blows away. after all, we are in the midst  Tape empty cereal boxes to yourself  
sheet you used from the last toga party  tie. dance moves are optional, but highly  of hurricane season  and splatter red paint on them. attach  
you went to. if you’re a goddess, put on  encouraged.  butter knives or forks for an extra effect.  
some flashy jewelry to complete the look.  
 House, M.D  
 
if you want to be the almighty Zeus, find  Contact Sean Fitzgerald at  Throw on a jacket over a T-shirt and  Contact Claire Stephens at  
some cardboard lying around and cut it  sfitzge3@nd.edu  jeans, use a broomstick as a cane and  cstephe4@nd.edu  

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


Scene Staff Report 
Paranormal Activity (2007) 

The original installment in this horror series brought a fresh look at fright — using the found-footage method of camerawork. This movie was shot on a $15,000 budget and ended up making almost $200 million at the box of­fice, speaking to the movie’s true creepiness. 
Katie believes the house is possessed by a demon but micah thinks she’s full of it, and begins setting up cam­eras around the house to see what’s up, to which the de­mon doesn’t take to kindly. 
Insidious (2011) 

This truly creepy film follows a family after their young son falls into an unexplainable coma. it soon be­comes apparent that something is wrong with the boy and the house, and the boy’s mother and father (patrick wilson and rose Byrne) bring in a team that special­izes in paranormal activity to find out what’s going on. it turns out the boy has the ability to “astroproject” into “The Further,” and the film turns down a creepy, freaky path before concluding in horror. 
Psycho (1960) 

This hitchcock classic was initially rejected by some critics, some even calling it a black spot on hitchcock’s career, but the general public loved it from its opening and it has proven a lasting classic. 
The story of norman Bates, motel owner and crazed killer, is probably well-known to most at this point in history, as is the infamous shower scene, but the film still proves eerie and disturbing, even if you know what’s coming. 
Carrie (1976) 
This adapted stephen King novel follows carrie white, a friendless and shy teenage girl who suffers at the hand of her religious fanatic mother. carrie also grapples with the fact that she possesses unexplained, supernatu­ral powers. so yeah, carrie’s got some issues. in classic high-school movie fashion, the plot comes to its climax at the prom, which is one of the most memorable scenes in scary-movie history. carrie is the story of high-school angst gone murderously astray, and it is not to be missed this halloween season. 
Halloween (1978) 
“halloween” is a low-budget horror flick that spawned a host of scary movie plot clichés and ten sequels (and counting). when a psychotic murderer escapes from the mental hospital, no one in the sleepy town of haddonfield, ill., is safe. The film is Jamie lee curtis’ breakout role, as she stars as the bookish babysitter who comes face-to-ski-mask with michael myers. The movie lacks the over-the-top gore of modern horror films, and is campy fun perfect for a seasonal viewing. 
The Shining (1980) 

another adapted stephen King novel, “The shining” is a lesson in how to create creepy suspense. Jack Torrance (Jack nicholson) is the caretaker of the overlook hotel, a super-secluded hotel in the mountains, during its off­season. The family is alone, that is, except for the eerie apparitions and supernatural beings that reside in the hotel. as the seclusion sets in, Jack gradually becomes mentally unhinged. after experiencing this film, the phrase “here’s Johnny!” will never be the same again. 
The Exorcist (1973) 

This movie represents one of the first, and creepiest, of the woman-possessed-by-a-demon horror movie genre. when 12-year-old regan (linda Blair) exhibits strange symptoms, her mother (ellen Burstyn) has doctors per­form a litany of tests to diagnose her illness. when noth­ing works, and paranormal occurrences persist, doctors recommend an exorcism. The rest is scary-movie leg­end. The child verbally assaults priests, projectile-vom­its a vile green substance and speaks in demonic tones. “The exorcist” is a necessary addition to your halloween movie shortlist. 

Will Neal 
scene writer 

halloween episodes on television have always been more successful with a little humor involved. looking back on shows both old and new, i want to highlight some of my personal favorite halloween specials. They may not be considered by all to be the best, but they’re definitely entertaining. 
Community 

oh, “community,” you’re always delivering on the laughs, but rarely on the ratings. This isn’t the time to tell you why you should watch this hilarious nBc cult comedy, but for now i’ll say their halloween spe­cial “epidemiology” is a series highlight. greendale community college’s loveable gang of misfits attends a halloween dance where a batch of government-issued taco meat causes a zombie-like outbreak among the stu­dents. Between rapid-fire pop culture gags, flying cats and a zombie smack down to the tunes of aBBa, what more could a reasonable person ask for in a halloween special? especially when george Takei is narrating. 
The Simpsons 

ok, so the annual “Treehouse of horror” special epi­sode of “The simpsons” has brought a lot of hits and misses over the years (what do you expect from a show in its 24th season?). still, their halloween episodes have delivered some of the show’s most memorable moments. if you haven’t experienced an army of dolphins taking over springfield, homer selling his soul for a doughnut or shooting down the zombie ned Flanders (“he was a zombie?”), then i highly recommend putting some of these episodes on your pre-halloween watch list. if there’s a standout, it’s the show’s “The shining” spoof from the season 6 “Tree house of horror” segment “The shinning.” Trust me, it’s worth eight minutes of your time. 
Boy Meets World 
“dun, dun, dun!” in the episode “and Then There was shawn,” cory matthews and the crew are stuck in detention after disrupting mr. Feeny’s class (nobody dis­respects Feeny). detention soon takes a frightening turn as the gang finds itself in a horror movie-like scenario. with masked murderers, creepy janitors, blood-writ­ten messages on the chalkboard and a student named Kenny being impaled by a pencil (“oh my gosh, they killed Kenny!”), this is sitcom horror done right — minus a pretty stupid ending. 
How I Met Your Mother 
it’s “The slutty pumpkin,” Ted mosby! see what i did there? in the first season of himym, the show takes on the classic charlie Brown special as we learn how Ted waits every halloween for a mysterious girl dressed as a sexy pumpkin whose number he lost years ago (“pump­kins can be sexy?”). The episode is filled with plenty of funny moments, from effeminate pirates and rooftop ivy league a cappella groups to Barney’s various cos­tume changes, which enable him to hit on the same girl. There’s even a follow-up to the episode in season 7 where Katie holmes plays the slutty pumpkin (good grief). 
Hey Arnold! 

remember the good old days of mischievous and prank-filled halloween nights — like fooling your town about an alien invasion and nearly getting your friends dressed as aliens killed? no? Then arnold and his friends clearly have way too much free time on their hands. more importantly, it makes for a great episode from every­one’s favorite football-headed cartoon. paying tribute to orson welles’ “war of the worlds” radio drama, arnold and his odd friends scare the pants off their neighbors to prove they can be as frightening as the adults. if only my friends and i were that creative back in 4th grade. 
Modern Family 

“modern Family” is one of the funniest shows cur­rently on television (and it has the emmys to back it up). however, the episode “halloween,” delivers a well-written and well-acted installment, even by the show’s own very high standards. The episode revolves around three storylines: claire setting up a haunted house, mitchell stuck at work as spiderman (when no one else is in costume) and gloria attempting to lose her accent to avoid ridicule (unsuccessfully). in traditional “modern Family” style, the three storylines merge in the end and everyone learns a valuable lesson (including why you should dress as a sexy cat for halloween). The family even manages to put together a pretty stellar haunted house. i can’t do it justice in this article, but trust me, it’s worth your time. 
Contact Will Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

new stadiums need creativity 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
in sports, like with any prod­uct, the packaging is important. we don’t just want to see our team win, we want to see them do it in awesome jerseys, while we eat a quality hot dog and drink a cold beer from our great seats (or, at the very least, on a comfortable couch in front of an hdTv). 
But the most important con­tainer for any sports franchise is the arena itself, the communal cathedral where not just you, but tens of thousands of the faithful all come together to watch, cheer, suffer and com­plain about martinez losing a step. at its best, the stadium can be an identity and a teammate to the players on the field, a fa­vorite star that never graduates or retires. 
sometimes, the venue can contribute more to the gameday experience than the play on the field itself — as anyone who has been to a cubs game in the past decade or so can tell you. 
But instead of taking on the embracing aura and mystique of a wrigley, most modern stadi­wrigley – do have the advan­tage of history and tradition, something that a new venue can never replicate. i will never be confused with someone who knows architecture, but walk­ing around soldier Field for the notre dame vs. miami game a few weeks ago, i was absolutely blown away by the restored col­umns and gates from the early 20th-century design, but the modern spaceship renovations on top of them left a bitter taste in my mouth. 
however, there are plenty of modern stadiums that have carved their own way into histo­ry, and offer fans a mystique all their own. The patriots’ gillette stadium is barely a decade old, but its lighthouse and open, bridge-style walkways have made it an arena fit for the super Bowl teams it has hosted. 
in winnipeg, owners renovat­ed the city’s legendary but run­down eaton’s department store into a 15,000 person bandbox. The new stadium helped bring hockey back to winnipeg, and the arena’s size (the smallest in the nhl) has made the Jets the hottest ticket in the league. 
and for the notre dame stu­dent, spoiled by the living legacy 

But instead of building on the traditions of their franchises and their legendary home-field advantages, the new parks are straight out of the modern cookie-cutter. 
ums package a game more like those plastic, heat-sealed clam­shell containers that are impos­sible to open and end up slicing your fingers open: functional, but not at all endearing. 
my two examples are citi Field and the new yankee stadium, the respective new york homes of the mets and yankees. Built within a few years of each other, the new stadiums were necessary re­placements for the classic but decaying yankees stadium of old, and shea stadium — the consummate “it’s a dump, but it’s our dump” park. 
But instead of building on the traditions of their franchises and their legendary home-field advantages, the new parks are straight out of the modern cook­ie-cutter. expensive (and empty) club seats ring the field, and exclusive suites and executive suits have replaced the bleacher bums and priced out many of the upper-deck lifers. 
when people think of the packers, they think lambeau Field. That’s a reputation the yankees and mets won’t have to worry about — at least until it’s time to build the next round of stadiums. 
it does seem that the classic stadiums — like lambeau or of a certain football stadium, there are still newer local ven­ues that are shining beacons for modern stadia. 25-year old coveleski stadium is the perfect minor-league ballpark, resplen­dent with both a JumboTron and a hill in right field to picnic on. and the brand new compton Family ice arena is a world-class facility, but every seat in the house is about one thing and one thing only: a great view of the game. 
so building a modern, high-tech arena that creates an in­stant connection and is beloved by patrons isn’t easy, but some shining examples have shown they can hold a candle to the likes of Fenway and madison square garden. 
so if you’re designing a new arena, do yourself — and the fans — a favor. go outside the box, and break out of the dull, emotionless mold that has be­come far too common across the country. 
Besides, it’s one of those an­noying plastic ones, anyway. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer, 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Weber takes over at KSU 
Associated Press 
manhaTTan, Kan. — The difference between Kansas state coach Bruce weber and his predecessor, Frank martin, was evident during the first few practices over the summer. 
weber was starting to imple­ment the very basics of his motion offense, a markedly dif­ferent system than what martin had used so successfully, and it was absolute chaos — guys standing in the same spots, bumping into each other and throwing passes to nothing but air. 
at first, will spradling braced himself for an earful after every miscue. after a while, he began to realize that the demeanor of his new coach was much more player-friendly. 
“last year it was, if we made a mistake, we were on the line. we were running,” spradling said. “This year it’s, ‘if you make a mistake, we’re going to do it right. we’re going to get it right. we’re going to do it as many times as we need to get it right.’” 
make no mistake: weber can be intense. 
That became clear during a trip to Brazil over the summer, when the officials let a game get out of hand. But the former illinois coach picks his mo­ments to let loose, while martin 
— who left this spring for south carolina — often seemed to be searching for a reason to let loose. 
several players told The associated press during the offseason that martin created a culture of fear within the pro­gram, one that was never fully recognized while he was lead­ing the wildcats to five consec­utive 20-win seasons and four 

FOR RENT 
Rent Knute Rockne’s home for football weekends. Perfect location 
- 1 block from Eddy St. Commons. Sleeps 8-10. Contact 574-876-4324 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt earnparttime.com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Born on this day in history: 
1974 -Jeff Gooch, linebacker (Tampa Bay Buccaneers) 
1974 - Serge Heuveling, soccer player (NEC) 
1974 - Muzzy Izzet, Turkish footballer 
1975 -Fabio Celestini, Swiss footballer 
1976 - Guti, Spanish footballer 
1977 - Sylviane Félix, French athlete 
1977 - Séverine Ferrer, French singer 
1978 - Emmanuel Izonritei, Nigerian boxer 
1978 - Zachary Knighton, American actor 


trips to the ncaa tournament. 

“i feel like with Frank, if you weren’t a top-seven guy ... if you had a bad practice or some­thing happened, you knew you weren’t going to play, guaran­teed,” sophomore guard nino williams said. “it was kind of a bad situation if you aren’t a top-five guy or starter.” 
weber represents for all of them a fresh start. 
he wasn’t a particularly popular hire among fans after getting fired by illinois, but his everyman charm has slowly endeared himself to weary sup­porters across the state. 
it helps that he was able to keep a deep, talented team intact. 
weber said his first order of business was to convince all-Big 12 guard rodney mcgruder to return for his senior year. Then he started meeting with every other guy from a team that went 22-11 last season, even getting the Brooklyn nets’ deron williams — whom weber coached at illinois — to call angel rodriguez and con­vince the sophomore guard to give weber a chance. 
“d-will was just telling me that he was in the same posi­tion as me. he was frustrated when Bill self left illinois,” rodriguez said. “he just told me to not stress it, take it easy and just remember that he was in the same position, and he will never regret playing for coach weber.” 
indeed, weber was in a famil­iar situation when he took over the illini. self had just left to coach Kansas and left behind a roster loaded with talent. 
after convincing williams, dee Brown and luther head to stick around, weber led illinois to 26 wins his first season in champaign. The illini won the Big Ten title the following year, their first loss coming by a point to ohio state in their regular-season finale, and then rolled to the national title game, where they suffered their only other loss, to north carolina. 
“Bill was truly missed there when he left, but we got them going,” weber said. “you want that challenge, and that’s the exciting part of it.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
1978 - Martin Verkerk, Dutch tennis player 
1979 -Simão Sabrosa, Portuguese footballer 
1979 - Ricardo Fuller, Jamaican Footballer 
1980 -Eddie Kaye Thomas, American actor, 
1980 -Samaire Armstrong, American actress 
1981 - Irina Denezhkina, Russian writer 
1981 - Jon Crocker, American songwriter 
1982 - Tomáš Plekanec, Czech ice hockey player 
Go Irish. 



SMC SOCCER 

Belles face stern test in final game at Kalamazoo 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
The Belles will make a last-ditch effort to clinch a playoff berth in the regular season finale against Kalamazoo on Tuesday. 
The top four teams in the miaa advance to the postsea­son conference tournament, the winner of which automati­cally qualifies for the ncaa tournament. saint mary’s (12­5-2, 9-5-1 miaa) enters the game in sixth place with 28 points, just one point behind hope, alma and the hornets (11-5-2, 9-4-2), who are tied for second. hope and alma each square off against teams 
— albion and Trine — which are winless in conference play, while the Belles battle Kalamazoo. 
“we are very excited and pumped for this game,” Belles sophomore goalie chanler rosenbaum said. “it comes down to this one and we are all very prepared and eager to win.” 
But a win doesn’t necessar­ily clinch a playoff spot for saint mary’s. The Belles would need to defeat Kalamazoo, have calvin (34 points) defeat adrian (31 points) and have both hope and alma win their matchups. in this scenario, the Belles would tie with adrian with 31 points, and saint mary’s would win the tiebreak­er for the final playoff spot. 
“i think we have a very good chance,” rosenbaum said. “we have beaten Kalamazoo before and are playing on our own field. we just have to win this game and calvin has to beat adrian, which is very possible.” 
yet before the Belles can think about receiving help from other teams and advanc­ing to the four-team confer­ence playoff, they need to take care of their own business. 
“we are just going to go out there to do our best and not worry about everyone else,” rosenbaum said. “we have to play our game and worry about winning before we can even think about how the other teams our playing.” 
in the two teams’ first meet­ing, saint mary’s defeated Kalamazoo on sept. 29 on the road when junior captain and midfielder mollie valencia broke a scoreless tie with just 
2:30 remaining in regulation to give the Belles a 1-0 victory. rosenbaum said the final score does not indicate just how well saint mary’s played in that game, a performance it will be looking to duplicate Tuesday. 
“when we played Kalamazoo, we dominated the majority of the game but just couldn’t make a goal until the last minutes,” rosenbaum said. “we know it’s not going to be easy, but if we play as hard as we did before, we can make it happen.” 
The win against the hornets jump-started a stretch in which the Belles won six of seven games. But saint mary’s is just 1-2-1 since that streak ended. rosenbaum said dur­ing recent practices the Belles have been focused on improv­ing their offense. 
“The main focuses [in practice] have been posses­sion, connecting more pass­es, and ripping more shots,” rosenbaum said. 
while saint mary’s will look to improve an offense that has scored multiple goals in just one of those last four games, rosenbaum said the game will be decided based on levels in­tensity and tenacity. 
“i think the deciding factor [Tuesday] will be who wants it more,” rosenbaum said. “we both are fighting for that final spot for the conference tournament. it comes down to heart, dedication and perse­verance for which team is will­ing to fight to the bitter end to get that ball in the back of the net.” 
The Belles and hornets square off at 3 p.m. at the saint mary’s soccer fields. 
Contact Mike Monaco at     jmonaco@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

alabama hopes for offensive success against lsu 
either goats or heroes of the (three misses) and Jeremy 
Associated Press 

kickers. shelley (a 49-yarder blocked) 
Tuscaloosa, ala. — The good news for the Tide: became infamous for their maybe the force-field that has aJ mccarron and the offense troubles in last november’s shielded the end zone the past have been far more successful 9-6 overtime loss to the two times alabama and lsu this season in getting points Tigers. shelley got redemp­have tangled won’t be quite out of trips inside the oppo-tion with five field goals in so powerful saturday night. nents’ 20-yard line, or the red the national title game. 
The top-ranked crimson zone. nearly perfect, in fact. The offense shared the Tide and no. 5 Tigers have and lsu has struggled both blame in that regular-season smacked right into it the offensively and defensively meeting — or lsu’s defense past two meetings at various within that portion of the the credit. points on the field, reaching field. alabama had four drives in-the end zone only once be-The bad news: lsu (7-1, 3-1) side the Tigers’ 30-yard line tween them. has a Top 10 defense and eas-and was pushed back with 
alabama (8-0, 5-0 ily the most formidable group two penalties, two sacks and on this week, most definite-alabama’s done that much southeastern conference) of running backs alabama three negative rushing yards. ly,” Tide wide receiver Kevin better through eight games. especially has been forced has faced, so neither of those call that the crimson zone. norwood said. “scoring when The Tide is tied with no. 12 to attempt a cascade of field trends are guaranteed to hold “oh, we missed a lot of op-we should and scoring when louisville for tops nationally goals after promising drives up. portunities and that’s one we have to and making every in red zone efficiency, scor­screeched to a halt, making Bama kickers cade Foster thing that we’ve got to focus opportunity count.” ing on 34 of 35 trips with 26 
touchdowns. alabama is also 




The oBserver | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

FENCING 

Freshman Kiefer acclimates to nd 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
despite being a division i women’s fencer and the young­est player on the 2012 united states olympic fencing team, freshman lee Kiefer is going through the same struggles as most college freshmen. 
“i’m one of those people who needs to have my own space,” Kiefer said. “so, i’m struggling having to share a room. at the end of the day, it’s okay and i don’t mind it that much.” 
despite facing the usual speed bumps encountering an 18-year­old moving into a college dorm, Kiefer’s first collegiate season with team has begun with some success. on saturday, Kiefer helped the irish beat the reigning national champions, ohio state, in an exhibition match, while winning the both of her matches in the foil division. Kiefer re­cently returned from the north american cup in st. louis, where she won the division i women’s Foil tournament on oct. 14. The freshman said she has enjoyed the beginning of her first year at notre dame. 
“so far, i just really like the team. That was one of the ma­jor reasons i was drawn to notre dame,” Kiefer said. “everyone has a good mentality about fenc­ing. it’s all for fun but we work hard. it’s a good balance that al­lows us to do well both in fencing and outside of fencing.” 
For Kiefer, an aspiring pre­med major, this balance is help­ing academics not go by the wayside, she said. 
“academically, i missed 65 days of school [for fencing] my senior year of high school,” Kiefer said. “so, i’m used to doing a lot of work and getting things done under pressure. That hasn’t been that much of a challenge.” 
Kiefer is currently ranked atop the women’s foil rankings in the 
u.s. in both the senior and ju­nior division. Kiefer is also the no. 4 foilist in the world at the senior level. This summer Kiefer made the trip with the american fencing team to london for the olympic games. while there, she battled her way to the quarterfi­nals, losing to the eventual silver medalist, italy’s arianna errigo. 
“it was a great experience,” Kiefer said. “i felt like a real ath­lete. i know that’s awful to say, but at the olympics they treat fencing like an actual sport, which is really nice.” 
This summer, Kiefer was the youngest member on the olympic squad, but she said it wasn’t an entirely new experience. 
“i’ve been the youngest play­er on the national team for the last year now, so at this point it’s pretty regular,” Kiefer said. “everyone is just really nice and accepting. i heard that in past years the older people weren’t very nice to the younger fencers. i was really happy to see it wasn’t that way at all.” 
For Kiefer, skill with the foil runs in the family. her father was a fencer and team captain at duke. her sister alex is a fencer at harvard and helped harvard win the 2011 ncaa title her freshman year. even Kiefer’s younger brother, axel, is gifted in the art of fencing, as he is the nation’s top-ranked 12-year-old fencer. 
“when i was little, my dad made me and my siblings fence,” Kiefer said. “we thought it was cool when we first started, but then we realized how hard it was. it takes a lot of work to become good when you first start. so, because my dad made us fence against our will, we got good.” 
still, what draws Kiefer to the sport is the blend of skills it re­quires, she said. 
“Fencing is a great sport if you want to be both physically and mentally challenged,” Kiefer said “it never gets boring and there is always something to work on.”
 Kiefer has gotten a taste of the friendliness of the school through her own teammates she said. 
“notre dame had everything i wanted in academics and fenc­ing.” Kiefer said. “everyone here is just so nice. That’s weird to say, but it’s definitely true. 
“i just really like the fenc­ing team. it seems like i should branch out, but i don’t really feel like i have the need. i like a lot of things, but i’m just really close to the fencing team and i like spending time with them, so that’s how i spend the majority of my time.” 
not surprisingly, what little free time Kiefer has, she spends resting. when things are a little bit slower in the summer, the Kentucky native said she enjoys reading. 
“i’m always sleeping when i have the time,” Kiefer said. “over the summer, when i actually had free time, i read a lot. This summer i was really hooked on ‘game of Thrones.’ i just love to read. i haven’t really read in a few months though, which is sad.” 
despite being one of the na­tion’s top athletes in her sport and thriving on and off the strip, Kiefer continues to struggle with some of the same challenges other notre dame freshman face. 
“obviously, i knew there were going to be parietals when i came to notre dame, but i’m used to my parents just being more trusting,” Kiefer said. “it’s definitely taking some getting used to.” 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
NFL 

Rams deny trade rumors 

Associated Press 
sT. louis — The st. louis rams say running back steven Jackson is not available in a trade. 
coach Jeff Fisher did his best to quash persistent rumors, say­ing Tuesday that the rams aren’t shopping Jackson and have not been getting calls about him, either. 
“The steven Jackson rumors are rumors,” Fisher said. “he’s our running back and we’re not calling around, nor are we get­ting calls for that matter. 
“put that to rest.” 
Jackson, who entered the season with a franchise-record seven consecutive 1,000-yard seasons, is sharing carries on an extensive basis for the first time in his career. 

Jackson is 11th in the nFc with 403 yards on 108 carries with a 3.7-yard average and one touchdown and rookie daryl richardson is 12th in the con­ference with 335 yards and a 5.4­yard average. 
richardson, a seventh-round pick out of abilene christian, jumped ahead of second-round­er isaiah pead in training camp. 
Fisher also said that rookie defensive back matt daniels was placed on injured reserve with a knee injury sustained in the rams’ 45-7 loss to the patriots in 
paid adverTisemenT 
london on sunday. 
daniels made the team as an undrafted free agent and played on special teams in four games. 
The rams (3-5) have a bye this week and will practice wednesday and Thursday be­fore getting four days off. They return to action nov. 11 at san Francisco. 
Fisher said the practices this week will emphasize opportu­nistic play. 
“we have a lot of work to do in all areas halfway through the season,” Fisher said. “right now we’re not scoring touchdowns and we’re not getting take­aways, and that’s going to be our focus during the bye week.” 





Focus 
conTinued From page 16 
“The passing game still needs to improve,” Kelly said. “you know, we had where we consider four, maybe five opportunities that we left out there in terms of throwing the ball. so we want to see a higher passing efficiency in that respect. 
“what we need now is to put together a string of games back to back.” 
Kelly said the coaching staff will be asking more out of golson following a good outing in a hostile environment against a top-10 opponent. 
“any time that you go on the road and you play with confi­dence and real good communi­cation, you would hope that that — okay, we’re going to move to that next level,” Kelly said. “But we’ll see, you know, and what we’ll see is consistency of per­formance will be the next step 
“The passing game still needs to improve.” 
Brian Kelly 
Irish coach 
for him … i think we demand more. our expectations are 
high.” 
No BCS politics 
notre dame is just one spot in the rankings away from a poten­tial date in the national champi­onship game, but Kelly said he will steer clear of campaigning for notre dame. 
“i’ve got great people that can fill me in on all those things, and that’s their job to feed you guys all that information as it relates to the politics,” Kelly said. “i got out of politics once. i’m not get­ting back in it.” 
notre dame is one of four un­defeated teams at the top of the Bcs rankings. The irish are be­hind no. 1 alabama and no. 2 Kansas state, and no. 4 oregon trails the irish by just .0011 points. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
Goalie 
conTinued From page 16 
of 10-8-0. summerhays had a 2.43 goals-against average and a .910 save percentage and earned notre dame’s most improved player award as a sophomore. 
This season summerhays has established himself as the start­ing goaltender and as a dominant force between the pipes. in the five games he has started this sea­son, he has a record of 4-1 and has amassed 122 saves with one shut­out. in the 4-1 win over minnesota­duluth on oct. 19, summerhays saved 33 of the 34 shots on goal. 
summerhays said he credits irish coach Jeff Jackson with his development over the years. 
“i have developed into a more positional goalie since i’ve been here,” summerhays said. “coach Jackson has been working with me, helping me become a posi­tional goalie and not to be all over the place.” 
summerhays said he has learned better ways to prepare himself for games and that this readiness has contributed to his success this year. 
“i think i have improved most with game preparation,” summerhays said. “Towards the end of last year, i took away some things that have helped me pre­pare for games and i have carried those over to this season and it has really helped.” 
in preparation to take on no. 11 western michigan on Friday, summerhays has already begun to develop a game plan, he said. 
“we haven’t watched too much tape this week, but from play­ing [the Broncos] in the past, they are a very well coached team,” summerhays said. “They like to get all kinds of pucks to the net, so i have to be ready for shots from all kinds of different angles. i need to really work on rebound control. [northern michigan] scored a couple of rebound goals on me last weekend … those are goals that i would like to have back, so i need to emphasize rebound control this weekend. ” 
overall, summerhays said he is pleased with how he and his team­mates are playing this year, espe­cially in that they are placing an emphasis on winning at home. 
“all the guys are up in the locker room,” summerhays said. “when you are winning it’s obviously easy to have high spirits, but it was big to show that success we’ve had on the road this year at northern [michigan] and in Kansas city [for the ice Breaker Tournament on oct. 12 and 13]. we want to have an emphasis this year on taking care of this building and winning home games. we definitely want to start the weekend off a win here and set the tone for the games in this building.” 
under the leadership of summerhays, the irish will face off with the Broncos this Friday at 
7:35 p.m., at the compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
Tandem 
conTinued From page 16 
and sophomore until he seized the starting job over the final month of last season, with a .954 save percentage in the final five games he started. he proceeded to start the first five games this season, allowing only eight goals, as the irish (5-1-0, 2-0­0-0 ccha) won four of those contests. 
The man he replaced, se­nior mike Johnson, was notre dame’s no. 1 goalie for most of his first three years in south Bend, including the irish run to the Frozen Four in 2010-2011. unfortunately, despite moments of stellar play, Johnson’s incon­sistency allowed summerhays to take over the starting position in February, a position he never let go. 
unlike a backup quarterback in football, however, a backup hockey goalie is not used solely when the starter is hurt or plays poorly. he still has to start some games, both to rest the starter and keep himself fresh should the starter get injured later in the season. 
and so Johnson played for the first time all year saturday, putting forth a solid effort by notching 26 saves in a 3-2 win at northern michigan. 
Johnson’s performance is not a surprise if you look at both his past play and the attitude he’s shown throughout the season. rather than mope after his demotion, he has embraced the challenge to both mentor and push summerhays. 


“we’re rooting for each other and we’re working hard against each other in practice, so it’s still a really healthy relationship and we’re getting along great,” Johnson said. 
summerhays also said he has benefited from Johnson’s presence. 
“he’s someone i look up to,” summerhays said. “he led this team to a Frozen Four, so every­one knows that he can play well. so that was good that he got an opportunity to play this week­end. and everyone has just as much confidence in him as they do in me, so i don’t think that’s a question. it’s nice to have a day off here, and no matter who’s playing either night, he’s always supporting me and i’m support­ing him.” 
ultimately, irish coach Jeff Jackson made the right move going with summerhays, based on the ability he showed late last year. notre dame’s fate – a potential ccha championship or Frozen Four berth –will be largely determined by how the new starter performs. But the irish also have an experienced, capable backup ready to play should they need him. and both have helped push the irish to a red-hot start. 
sound familiar? 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The oBserver | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

WAKING THE ECHOES | Ben hansBrough 
Hansbrough hoping to make it at the next level 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
on a cold February night in 2011, former irish and cur­rent indiana pacers guard Ben hansbrough heated up purcell pavilion on senior night. 
The then-senior closed out his home career in red-hot fashion against villanova, as he connected on seven of 10 three-pointers and finished with 30 points. hansbrough, who was lat­er named the 2011 Big east player of the year, teamed with then-senior forward Tim abromaitis for a total of 16 three-pointers. 
“That was my senior night,” hansbrough said. “i was so mentally ready for that game that i don’t think anybody was going to be ready to come in and have a chance to beat us, especially the way [abromaitis] helped me out too.” 
eighteen months later, hansbrough returned to notre dame when the pacers battled the chicago Bulls on 
“I was so mentally 
ready for that 
game that I don’t 
anybody was going 
to be ready to 
come in and have 
a chance to beat 
us, especially the 
way [Abromaitis] 
helped me out 
too.” 
Ben Hansbrough 
Pacers guard 

Friday night in an nBa pre­season game. The 6-foot­3, 203-pound point guard played for the pacers in the orlando summer league and earned a spot on the pre­season roster. hansbrough entered the game Friday off the bench in the first quarter to raucous cheers and played nearly five minutes as he ran the pacers offense. 
But for hansbrough, play­ing on the purcell hardwood in front of a sold-out arena wasn’t as familiar as you might expect. 
“i’m not really used to the game starting off and i’m being on the bench at notre dame,” hansbrough said. “so i got to see the crowd and i’ve never really noticed the crowd i just go out there and play [when i was at notre dame].” 
despite the differences be­tween his swan song against villanova and his relatively quiet appearance Friday, hansbrough said he was thrilled to be back at notre dame, this time as part of an nBa contest. 
“it’s been great,” hansbrough said. “every time you have an opportu­nity to step on this court 
“He’s been the first guy in our gym every day since we’ve been in camp. You kind of expect that for a guy that’s making a team but I don’t think it’s just because he’s trying to make the team. I think that’s who he is.” 
Frank Vogel 
Pacers coach 

and come back and play at purcell pavilion it’s a thrill. especially to do it at this level is just another dream to come back and play at notre dame.” 
a self-described long shot to make the team, hansbrough survived a re­cent round of roster cuts to play another game at purcell. on monday, hansbrough remained on the trimmed-down 15-man roster while fellow guards Blake ahearn and sundiata gaines were released. 
“i came in as an underdog but with hard work i was able to show people what i was able to do and it helped me out,” hansbrough said. 
Known for his never-end­ing practice sessions in “The pit” and insatiable work eth­ic during his time at notre dame, hansbrough carried that same approach to the nBa and caught the eye of the irish in scoring as a se­pacers head coach Frank nior and was a second-team vogel. all-american, said he has 

“[his work ethic] is not had to get acclimated to his just on the court competing niche on the pacers. in practice, but coming in “i’d say my role [is the early and staying late,” vogel biggest adjustment],” said. “he’s been the first guy hansbrough said. “almost in our gym every day since everybody in here was an we’ve been in camp. you all-american, the stud of kind of expect that for a guy their college team, and you that’s making a team but i go to the nBa where your don’t think it’s just because role completely changes. so he’s trying to make the team. it’s different. But this is the i think that’s who he is.” nBa, you have to try to get 
vogel added that better and better every day hansbrough is a well-round-and worry about what you ed player who impacts the control.” game in a variety of ways. The 24-year old took con­
“his toughness, his feisti-trol of his training regimen ness is all very positive and this summer. hansbrough helps contribute to winning said his older brother Tyler, basketball,” vogel said. “he’s a fourth-year forward for the a shot-maker, a good three-pacers, has taught him how to point shooter and he makes work out like a professional. solid decisions with the bas-“i’ve made a lot of progress ketball running the point this summer,” hansbrough guard spot.” said. “i’ve gotten in really 
But hansbrough, who led good shape and i’ve been 
paid adverTisemenT 

working out really hard so it’s been good for me. … [Tyler] taught me how to ap­proach the game. he’s given me some real good tips on how to work out and how to train, how to be really pro­fessional about it. watching how he handles his busi­ness too, he’s always been a role model of mine in that aspect.” 
For all the progress he has already made, hansbrough said he knows he needs to stay the course and keep el­evating his game. 
“[The next step] is just con­tinuing to improve, become a better basketball player, work on my game every day and try to help this team in ways that i can,” hansbrough said. “right now i’m a rookie and just trying to improve and improve.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at     jmonaco@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher BrucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago &                                           paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: matthew morrison, 34; gavin rossdale, 47; harry hamlin, 61; henry winkler, 67. 
Happy Birthday: partnerships will be intense, but if they are handled properly, they can turn out to be beneficial. social, financial and creative alterations should be em­braced once you have all the facts and figures to clarify what you will receive once you make a move. your disciplined attitude will outmatch opposition. your numbers are 7, 16, 22, 24, 28, 32, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Follow your instincts, not what others push on you. love is highlighted, but you must be the one in charge. make suggestions based on what you find entertaining. a creative idea you have should be developed for future use. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t make any hasty decisions regarding financial matters. less will end up being more, and prudence will turn out to be a wise choice. partnerships can be re-established. show your strengths, not your weak­nesses. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll spin in several different directions, which may work for you, but you will confuse someone trying to keep up. slow down and dis­cover what others have to offer. an unusual approach to using your skills will bring high returns. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): respond to what’s being done and said. it’s staying on top of a situation that will make you look good. your skills coupled with your innova­tive ideas will bring you greater recognition. don’t worry about the changes others make. do your own thing. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep a low profile. let others make the first move. stability is what you should be striving to maintain. a change in the way you do things or the way you portray your image will help to spice up your personal life. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Being upfront may cause a scene, but it will get you what you want. seek answers from outside your immediate family and you will get a better understanding of how your personal situation is perceived and how to make it better. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Talk matters through and come to decisions based on honesty and what works for the majority. problems will arise if anyone refuses to compromise. a change of plans will lead to a turning point in a relationship you have with someone. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): stick to an idea or project that you feel can alter your financial future. exploring new ways of using your skills or talents to generate more cash flow will lead to an interesting partnership and a better personal life. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make choices based on what you require to feel happy and satisfied with your life. a change at home will give you new hope for a brighter future. approach business deals striving for equality and long-term benefits.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you’ve got all the right moves. make interesting al­terations to your home and family life that will bring you greater respect and control regarding future projects and choices. don’t let someone’s change of heart bother you. let go and keep moving. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): hang on to what you’ve got. Talk over financial plans with someone you want to spend more time with. collaboration will help you determine what your next move should be. Take control when it comes to love and commitment. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): listen carefully to what’s being offered. make amend­ments to suit your needs. as long as you are reasonable you will get your way. share your valuable point of view and it will help generate more long-term benefits.  



Birthday Baby: you are strong-willed and in control. you are original, creative and competitive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. Box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

FOOTBALL 

Irish stay focused and prepared 
Kelly says he does not use ‘history lessons’; Golson continues to grow as first-year starter 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
Following a program-de­fining 30-13 win at then-no. 8 oklahoma, the no. 3 irish will now play with realistic national championship hopes in front of them when they take on pittsburgh at home saturday. 
notre dame (8-0) is off to its best start since 2002, but a win would push it to 9-0 for the first time since 1993. in 2002, notre dame returned from a victory over Florida state to drop a game to Boston college. irish coach Brian Kelly said the past will have no impact on the current team. 
“i really focus strictly on the guys that are in the room and how we prepare them,” Kelly said. “i do not use his­tory lessons as much as i want them to realize what it takes to win week in and week out. 
“what will affect how this team plays is how they pre­pare during the week and that is what i can control and that’s what our players can control.” 
Kelly said the hot start to the season can be attributed to the team’s preparation and focus. 
“They have handled success early in the season, and they have shown that they under­stand that if they don’t pre­pare the right way, that they’ll lose. we’re not good enough to not prepare properly, and i think they know that,” Kelly said. “For us, more than any­thing else is that you can pre­pare well, but if you’re not going to play a tough brand of football mentally and physi­cally, then you can lose every week that you play.” 
Golson still improving 
in the win over oklahoma, sophomore quarterback everett golson completed 13 of 25 passes for 177 yards while also running the ball 11 times for 64 yards. despite a solid, mistake-free perfor­mance from golson, Kelly said some aspects of his game need improvement. 
see Focus PAGE 13 
HOCKEY 

experienced goalies lead notre dame 
Summerhays will anchor Irish defense 
By  ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
as the no. 7 irish enter a tough stretch in their schedule — seven straight games against four differ­ent ranked opponents, including three top-10 teams — the man in net will become especially im­portant. Junior goaltender steven summerhays will be called upon to anchor the irish as they traverse the dangerous waters. 
summerhays has come a long way in his three years at notre dame. as a freshman during the 2010-11 season, summerhays played in 12 games, starting 10 games, with a record of 5-4-1. although the rookie saw substan­tial time in net during the season, senior goaltender mike Johnson, then a sophomore, was in charge of the net. 
in the 2011-2012 season, summerhays played in 20 games, starting 17, and compiled a record 
see goalie PAGE 13 


Team has pair of capable netminders 

Sam Gans 
sports writer 
The new notre dame starter is dynamic and exciting, though not as experienced as his backup. 
The backup is older, calm and a former multi-year starter. perhaps not as physically tal­ented as the current starter, he is still more than ready to con­tribute whenever his number is called. 
if you think i was referring to everett golson and Tommy rees in the opening two paragraphs, you are incorrect. 
in the middle of the hoopla over notre dame’s incredible football season up to this point, the no. 7 irish hockey team is quietly off to a great start of its own, thanks in large part to the strong goaltending of junior steven summerhays. 
summerhays was mostly used in a backup role as a freshman 
see Tandem PAGE 13 







