
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


DeMaria praises ND community 
Commencement speaker credits support from Notre Dame family as key to her recovery 
By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 
On a snowy January night 20 years ago, a bus carrying the Notre Dame women’s swimming team slid off the Indiana Toll Road and rolled over. Then-freshman Haley Scott DeMaria suffered a broken back and was paralyzed in the accident. 
Doctors told her she might never walk again. 
But DeMaria beat the odds. Not only did she regain the ability to walk, she returned to swim for the Fighting Irish the following year. 
DeMaria, who will deliver this year’s Commencement Address on May 20, returned to campus this weekend for the Blue-Gold Game and Monogram Club events. She said support from the Notre Dame community still runs strong, even two decades later. 

“It’s been 20 years since the accident, and I can’t tell you how many people still care,” she said. “That level of caring is just differ­ent here.” 
DeMaria said a visit from then-University President Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy after she came out of surgery following the accident was the first of many gestures of support she received throughout her recovery process. 
“I didn’t come here as a Catho­lic, I wasn’t Catholic as a student,” she said. “[Malloy] said, ‘Can I pray with you?’ I remember saying what most non-Catholics would say, ‘But I’m not Catholic.’ And he said, ‘That doesn’t matter. Can we pray?’” 
DeMaria said this visit from Fr. Malloy marked a significant point in her recovery. 

see DeMARIA/page 5 




Former dean to speak at graduation 
Observer Staff Report 
Carolyn Woo, former dean of the Mendoza College of Busi­ness and current president and chief executive officer of Catho­lic Relief Services, will be the featured speaker at the Col­lege’s graduate commencement ceremony May 19, the Universi­ty announced in a press release Friday. 
Woo will also receive an hon­orary doctor of laws degree during the University’s Com­mencement ceremony May 20. 
During Woo’s tenure as dean from 1997 to 2011, the College earned top rankings for its aca­

see WOO/page 5 



Mormon leader to explore political dimension of faith 
Ph.D. in political science from Har-a Utah-based or American church, tries rise out of poverty through a News Editor At Home 
KRISTEN DURBIN Abroad and 
vard University, taught political sci-but we have more members abroad member-funded private welfare in the 21st 
ence at Brigham Young University, than in the U.S. — 14 million total system, Porter said. In recent years, In the midst of former-Mas-Century.” He 
authored several books and aca-members in 150 countries,” he said. the Church’s humanitarian efforts sachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney’s will address 
demic articles and worked with the “We’ve adapted to deal with that have contributed more than $1 bil­presidential campaign and moral his church’s 
Senate Armed Services Committee growth by making organizational lion in aid in nearly 100 countries. debates about contraception and views on 
and the Northrop Corporation. Por-changes, establishing large offices “A key part of our religion is so-abortion in the political arena, the global events 
ter also served as executive direc-around the world to administer the cial justice. We believe all people Mormon faith has garnered heavy and its rela­
tor of the U.S. Board for Interna-church and building chapels and are equal, and that the rich should media attention so far in 2012. tionship to tional Broadcasting for five years. meeting houses.” be helping the poor,” he said. “All 
Dr. Bruce Porter, a senior leader the Catholic In his talk, Porter said he will in-Similar to the Catholic Church, our humanitarian work is funded of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-Church. troduce the basic organization and the LDS Church is committed to by thousands of members, and ter-day Saints (LDS), will address Prior to his doctrine of the LDS Church and ad-promoting social justice through it’s making a huge difference in this media attention in a talk Tues-service as a senior leader involved dress its significant international humanitarian missionary work people’s lives.” day titled “The Latter-day Saints in international Church admin-growth in recent years. around the world, especially in Come Marching In: Mormonism istration in 1995, Porter earned a “A lot of people still think we’re helping its members in poor coun-see PORTER/page 5 




Shirt design invokes storied tradition of Notre Dame football 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
This year, the unveiling of The Shirt “shook down the thunder.” 
Despite rainy weather and cold temperatures Friday afternoon, students and fans still showed up en masse in front of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore to see this year’s design unveiled. 
Junior Lauren Couey, The Shirt’s unveiling coordinator, said consid­ering the poor weather conditions, the turnout was “awesome.” 
“It really seems like people had fun,” she said. “All the players who were expected to come made it.” 
Junior Andrew Alea, president of The Shirt Committee, said by 
3:30 p.m., people were already lined up to get their shirt. 
“By the time The Shirt was un­veiled, there was a line of about 150 to 200 people waiting to get theirs,” he said. 
This year’s design is much dif­ferent than those of previous years, Alea said. 
“[The Shirt committee] wanted to make a shirt that is intense,” he said. “We wanted an ‘in your face’ shirt, we wanted to make [the de­sign] pop.” 
Alea said the committee chose navy blue as their color to comple­ment the powerful imagery they chose for the design. 
“We wanted navy blue, because it’s a Notre Dame color, and espe­cially with the powerful imagery, we thought the navy blue would 


see SHIRT/page 5 


ALEX PARTAK/ The Observer 

Notre Dame football coach Brian Kelly displays The 2012 Shirt to the assembled crowd outside the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore on Friday.  
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER AnTostal connects students to outdoors page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Baking with Brenna page 8 u Blue-Gold Game coverage page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Monday, April 23, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WAS YOUR FAVORITE CHARACTER FROM YOUR CHILDHOOD TV SHOW? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editors: Kristen Durbin John Cameron Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Sara Hillstrom Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sara Felsenstein Matthew Nicole Michels DeFranks Kaitlyn Rabach Vicky Jacobsen Graphics Isaac Lorton Dan Azic Scene Photo Maria Fernandez Grant Tobin Viewpoint Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 52 LOW 42 


Rob Ray  KC Youm  Maria Emilian  Jenna Spizzirri  Chandler  Sharia Smith  
Rosenbaum  
junior  senior  senior  senior  freshman  freshman  
Knott  Siegfried  Ryan  off campus  McCandless  McCandless  
“Metapod.”  “Dexter.”  “Dinky Little,  “Roo from  “Spongebob.”  “Tom and Jerry.”  
from ‘The  ‘Winnie the  
Littles’.”  Pooh’.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Arizona sheriff plays tape for laughs at fundraiser 
PHOENIX —  An audio re­cording has surfaced of an Arizona sheriff playing his refusal to cooperate in a ra­cial profiling investigation for laughs at a fundraiser for an anti-illegal immigra­tion group in Texas. He ridi­cules politicians who sought the probe and displayed contempt toward federal au­thorities who were — and are still — investigating him on two fronts. 
The dismissive comments in 2009 by Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio came as the U.S. Justice Department had already launched a civil rights probe of his trade­mark immigration patrols and the FBI already was ex­amining abuse-of-power al­legations for the sheriff’s in­vestigations of political foes. 

In the September 2009 speech in Houston, Arpaio boasted that he arrested hundreds of illegal immi­grants after politicians and federal investigators started to pick apart his patrols. He said he wouldn’t cooperate with the inquiry, but said he would tone down the patrols 
— if he was proven wrong. 
Nugent agrees to plead guilty in illegal kill 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — Rocker and wildlife hunter Ted Nugent has agreed to plead guilty to transport­ing a black bear he illegally killed in southeast Alaska. 
Nugent made the admis­sion in signing a plea agree­ment with federal prosecu­tors that was filed Friday in 
U.S. District Court. 
Calls seeking comment from Nugent, his Anchorage attorney, Wayne Anthony Ross, and assistant U.S. At­torney Jack Schmidt were not immediately returned. 
The plea agreement says Nugent illegally shot and killed the bear in May 2009 on Sukkwan Island days after wounding a bear in a bow hunt, which counted to­ward a state seasonal limit of one bear. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The Department of Ap­plied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics is hosting a colloquium titled “From Crawlers to Swim­mers - Mathematical and Computational Problems in Cell Motility” in the Hayes-Healy Center at 4 p.m today. 
The Young Presidents’ Association and the Career Center are hosting “2012 CEO Summit: Path to the C-Suite”. The summit is tak­ing place today from 7 to 9 
p.m. in Jordan Auditorium. Richard Riley of the LoJack Corporation, Tom Wiffler of United Healthcare, and Christopher Murphy of First Source Bank are just three of the six CEOS that will be speaking at the sum­mit. 
Today from 7 to 8:30 p.m. the Introduction to World Health Association is host­ing an event in LaFortune Ballroom where students can come and explore dif­ferent perspectives of world health. The event will in­clude a Tai Chi demo, yoga expert, and information about African sports. 
The Progressive Student Alliance is presenting a discussion titled “Profiles on Standing Against Hate: Saint Mary’s Straight and Gay Alliance.” The event is taking place today in Ged­des Hall at 7:30 p.m. 
Notre Dame Christian Athletes are showing the film “Nefarious” tonight in DeBartolo Hall Room 101 at 8 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 









HIGH 57 LOW 45 
HIGH 63 LOW 45 
HIGH 48 LOW 34 
HIGH 54 LOW 36 

Monday, April 23, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




Activist speaks on global sex slavery 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 
Human trafficking survivor and activist Theresa Flores said in a lecture Friday that there is no such thing as child prostitu­tion by federal definition and that people often use the term to describe what should be called modern-day slavery. 
“We must start using the right terms and see these children as victims,” she said. “So often, these children are trafficked, but they are viewed as on the issue.” 

Flores told her personal story of growing up in a suburb out­side of Detroit, Mich., where she was trafficked out of her home. 
“Each night, my trafficker would pick me up around mid­night and then drop me back off in the morning,” she said. “My parents had no idea, and my traffickers threatened to hurt my family if I ever told anyone.” 
She said people often do not 
child prosti­

“We need to be outraged 
tutes who have 

in our country about 
a choice to be 

this issue and stand up 
in the industry. 

They do not against the crime.” have a choice. I did not have a Theresa Flores choice.” 
Anti-slavery activist 
Flores deliv­ered a lecture at Saint Mary’s April 20 titled “Human Traf­ficking from the Inside-Out: A Survivor of Trafficking tells her Story.” 
She began her lecture by de­fining human trafficking and stressing the importance of ed­ucating others about the issue. 
“Human trafficking is defined as the recruitment, harboring, or transportation of a person by force, fraud, or coercion,” Flores, who was sponsored to speak by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, Social Work Department and Justice Education Depart­ment, said. “We must know this definition. We cannot pro­tect our children, siblings and friends if we are not educated realize the size of the global hu­man traf­ficking in­dustry. 
“This is not a sex talk,” Flores said. “This is an economic talk. People all over the world are being traf­ficked be­cause it is bringing in big bucks for the traffick­ers. It is an 

industry and people need to un­derstand that.” 
Much of the lecture focused on domestic trafficking. Flores said 100,000 Americans are currently being trafficked in the United States and that each year, an estimated 20,000 indi­viduals are trafficked in. 
Flores said she believes the main challenge in fighting this issue is changing society’s mindset. 
“People do not think of it as being a problem, because they do not understand what consti­tutes trafficking,” she said. 
Flores said she believes the increased emphasis on sex in 21st-century society is the root of sex trafficking in the United States. 
“We will never make this problem go away if we do not address the demand of men buying sex,” she said. “Look around, sex is everywhere these days. It is normal for our chil­dren to be surrounded by sex. It is in our music, our shows; you cannot even go to the grocery store without seeing magazines advertised around it.” 
Flores said pimps are even misrepresented by popular cul­ture, sometimes in a positive light. 
“People see a pimp as a man with money and cool cars,” she said. “They should see a pimp as a rapist, felon and trafficker.” 
She said anyone, regardless of race, age or social status, is vulnerable. 
“College students are very vulnerable to being trafficked,” she said. “We need to be out­raged in our country about this issue and stand up against this crime.” 
Flores encouraged everyone in attendance to tell two other people about human traffick­ing and its effects. She said she hopes everyone in attendance would join the modern day abo­litionist movement. 
“I hope it rivets you enough to do something about it,” Flores said. 
Sr. Ann Oestreich, congre­gation justice coordinator for the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and Saint Mary’s  junior Cailin Crowe worked together to plan the campus events surround­ing Flores’ visit. 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at         krabac01@saintmrays.edu 




AnTostal 2012 offers free food, celebration 


By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
This year’s AnTostal promises to satisfy every student’s need for a final week of fun and relax­ation before finals through an endless supply of free food and giveaways, continuous stream­ing of “Animal House” on NDTV, a beach party and much more. 
Gaelic for “the festival,” AnTo­stal is an annual tradition spon­sored by the Student Union Board (SUB). This year’s theme, “So Col­lege,” embraces aspects of college life students most enjoy, sopho­more student programmer Matt Hayes said. 
“After long discussions of how we wanted to end the year, we real­ized that the college life you wear sunglasses in the sun, but all the cool kids wear sun­glasses at night.” 
Hayes said he expects Wednes­day’s “Nineties Night,” Saturday’s concert at Legends featuring Van­essa Carlton and Sunday’s beach party to be the highlights of the week. 
“Besides Vanessa Carlton on Saturday, I am most pumped for watching some ‘90s Nickelodeon on South Quad [on] Wednesday night at 8 [p.m.] and the beach party at St. [Joseph’s Beach] at 5 [p.m.]. Who doesn’t enjoy some classic ‘90s Nickelodeon TV shows?” Hayes said. “The beach party is going to be awesome, be­cause we have a band called Joe Moorhead play­ing island music, as well as a pig roast. St. Joe’s Beach is an awe-


is what we “I enjoy AnTostal for some place that enjoy most is underused by 
the quirkiness of it 
throughout campus.” 
... I like how you can be 
the year, so Hayes said 
walking around campus 
why not cel-he has thor­
and all of a sudden a 
ebrate it?” oughly enjoyed 
give-away or a carnival 
Hayes said. programming “This is prob-appears in front you.” for AnTostal ably the only this year, as time in our Matt Hayes the spring fes­lives when all tival represents 
student programmer 
of our friends are going to be living so close.” 
The free food and giveaways going on this week will not surprise students famil­iar with past AnTostal lineups, but Hayes and fellow sophomore student programmer Brittany Backstrand said their committee has improved on one of last year’s giveaways. 
“This year, official AnTostal bro tanks will be handed out at vari­ous SUB-sponsored events, in­stead of all at once like in years past,” Hayes said. “I think this will help people discover more of the cool things that we have planned, instead of just getting a T-shirt and walking away.” 
Besides the AnTostal bro tanks, other giveaways this year include sticky hands and bubbles, Jimmy John’s sandwiches, Sonic, dough­nuts and fresh fruit. 
“All the giveaways are pretty awesome this year, and while the food ones will of course get large crowds, I’m pumped for the glow-in-the-dark shutter shades,” Hayes said. “Now, I know some people are saying why would you care if they glow in the dark when another great 
Notre Dame tra­
dition. 
“I enjoy AnTo­
stal because of 
the quirkiness of it,” he said. “I like how you can be walking around campus and all of a sudden, a giveaway or a carni­val appears in front of you.” 
AnTostal is special because it presents students with a final op­portunity to spend a significant amount of time together before fi­nals kick in and friends part ways for the summer break, Hayes said. 
“I want to encourage all stu­dents to come out and have fun. Studying two weeks in advance for finals is overrated,” Hayes said. “You only live once, and when you look back on your col­lege days, you won’t remember the grades you got, but the experi­ences you had with friends.” 
AnTostal begins today at 9:15 
a.m. with free coffee and donuts outside DeBartolo Hall and ends with the beach party on Sunday. For a full list of AnTostal events, friend “Anne Tostal” on Face­book, or follow SUB on Twitter and Facebook. 

Contact Aubrey Butts at             abutts@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Monday, April 23, 2012 



Dance Arts returns to Saint Mary’s 
By MEAGHAN DALY 
News Writer 
DanceArts is back at Saint Mary’s this weekend. 
The Saint Mary’s College Dance Ensemble Workshop will take the stage of O’Laughlin Au­ditorium Friday and Saturday for its performance, “a Time to Dance....” 
DanceArts is an annual pre­sentation of the Saint Mary’s Program in Dance, Department of Communication Studies, Dance, and Theatre. This year’s performance will take place at 
7:30 p.m. Friday and at 2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. Saturday. 
Artistic director Indi Dieck­grafe-Dreyer, professor of dance at Saint Mary’s, emphasized the creativity and originality of the program’s concepts, ideas, and production elements. 
“Consider dance — its beau­tiful spectrum of forms and styles, allowing us to commu­nicate and enjoy life and art through human movement,” she said. 
The performance features choreography by faculty, guest artists and one student chore­ographer, junior Jean Medin. 
This year’s performance will welcome 2009 alumna Kristin Hingstrum to perform “Falling,” choreographed by Lisa Frank. As a gift to the Saint Mary’s Dance Program, Frank has giv­en her work for the permanent repertoire of the Dance Ensem­ble Workshop. 
Hingstrum said this piece tells a story — the dance is about getting up and moving on even when it is difficult, she said. 
“When I’m dancing the piece, I lose myself entirely. I connect with the character,” she said. “When I first danced this piece, I imagined a young woman who has bouts of insanity and mo­ments of clarity as she tries to discover who she is what she’s supposed to be doing.” 
Hingstrum said she was ex­cited when she was first invited to perform at Saint Mary’s. 
“I was surprised but greatly honored to be invited back to perform a piece that I love and connect with so deeply,” she said. 
DanceArts offers a variety of types of dances and dancers throughout the concert. 
“Saint Mary’s has always done a great job in creating a profes­sional environment for students to experience and participate in,” Hingstrum said. 
Hingstrum currently works as an educational advisor in Mo­line, Ill., and teaches dance to young girls. 
“[It] keeps me busy, but I love seeing them develop a love for dance as I did,” she said. “I stay involved with the performing arts community at home.” 

Dieckgrafe-Dreyer said she is personally excited to be return­ing to the stage after over 15 years. 
“This concert is dedicated to the art of dance, its history, con­tribution to society and its uni­versal importance,” Dieckgrafe-Dreyer said. 
The program of 11 dances in­cludes five premieres, and rang­es in genres from modern, con­temporary ballet, and national character dances. The show will run for approximately 90 minutes, including a 15-minute intermission. 
Tickets may be purchased on-line, by visiting the Moreau Cen­ter box office Monday to Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., or by call­ing 574-284-4626. 
Contact Meaghan Daly at          mdaly01@saintmarys.edu 



Midwestern squash teams unite 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame hosted represen­tatives from various Midwest squash organizations Saturday afternoon to collaboratively ad­dress organizational needs that will define the future of their sport. 
The “2012 Mid-America Squash Summit,” designed by Irish squash club coach Geoff Mc-Cuen, aimed to connect squash teams to help the sport continue expanding in the region. 
McCuen, volunteer coach for the Notre Dame men’s and wom­en’s club squash teams, said he organized the event because of the need for greater communica­tion between squash programs in the area. 
“I reached out to people and said, ‘If you don’t know everyone on this list, there are probably other people that you know that I don’t know,’” McCuen said. “Basi­cally the question is that [squash programs] are all in our own ar­eas, so how do we connect?” 
This question became all the more pressing when squash’s gov­erning body, the College Squash Association (CSA) requested that McCuen, the Midwest club repre­sentative, chastise two Midwest club teams for dropping out soon before a tournament at the Naval Academy. 
“With varsity sports, there are contracts that are entered into that they’ll provide a certain number of games,” McCuen said. “The Naval Academy had been contractually obligated to pro­vide a certain number of games for the leagues, and because these two teams dropped out, technically there was a [breach] of contract.” 
McCuen said he organized the summit to improve the piecemeal knowledge of CSA rules, but it has since moved beyond that ini­tial goal. 
“The summit started out to just be college coaches, so that we could get everyone on the same page and educated about the things we didn’t know about,” McCuen said. “Then it moved to­wards an event where we got ev­eryone together… to build a way to create a central repository for information.” 
Attendees drew two primary conclusions, McCuen said. The group decided regional inter-team communication must be im­proved and the number of avail­able courts must be increased. 
McCuen said the group is also planning on forming a Facebook group, a Twitter handle and a group-Google calendar. He said the latter will be particularly key to increasing awareness of re­gional squash activity. 
“By having a regional calendar, if I go on there I might not even be looking for events for my particu­lar team,” McCuen said.  “[For ex­ample], a lot of junior programs don’t know that college events are happening, but this calendar would let them see [those events] and become aware of them.” 
This increased communication would also lessen frustrations driven by the lack of available court space, McCuen said. 
“U.S. Squash oversees squash at the individual level outside of the CSA, and has a list of courts online that is horribly outdated,” he said.  “An updated list would help people find courts to play.” 
This lack of available squash courts limits the number of participants on his Notre Dame teams, McCuen said. 
“We get this big group that literally packs the room during the first week of school,” McCuen said. “But [eventually] interest wanes and then falls off.” 
Sophomore Paul Mickan said he signed up because he played tennis in high school and want­ed to be part of a team at Notre Dame. 
“There’s a pretty quick learn­ing curve, especially for tennis players,” Mickan said.  “Once you pick it up it’s great… You’re learning, and every time you get on the court, you’re getting bet­ter.” 
Senior Dennis Grabowski, president of the squash club, said the sport is a perfect activity for people who want to stay in shape. 
“I think college is the time where people like to branch out and explore things that they didn’t have access to before­hand,” Grabowski said. “People who want to stay in shape, and do that in a fun way, end up playing squash.” 
Mickan said he sees a lot of po­tential for the sport’s expansion in the Midwest, particularly with Notre Dame leading the effort. 
“I like feel like Notre Dame’s a major player in the Midwest,” Mickan said. “There’s a ton of op­portunity… a lot of energy in the region, it would be great to focus it and channel it through here.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at           nmichels@nd.edu 



Documentary inspires counter-slavery efforts 

By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
After viewing the award-winning documentary “Ne­farious” at a Christian con­ference over winter break, freshman Dougie Barnard said he was “wrecked with tears.” 
Barnard said he knew he wanted to bring the film, which exposes the growing epidemic of human traffick­ing and sex slavery around the world, to Notre Dame so students and faculty could experience the same tre­mendous emotional effect it had on him. 
“When I saw the film over winter break, I felt like the Lord really touched my heart,” Barnard said. “I feel like [‘Nefarious’] has the po­tential to unify the student body to come together on an issue that’s so important and threatening today.” 
Cosponsored by the Center for Social Concerns, Notre Dame Christian Athletes, Student Welfare and Devel­opment, Iron Sharpens Iron, ND-8, Peace Fellowship and Four:7, “Nefarious” will be shown tonight in DeBartolo Hall. 
Barnard said the issues presented in “Nefarious” are particularly relevant to Notre Dame’s mission. 
“It relates to social jus­tice here because [the glob­al sex trade is] one of the most important injustices in the world today, and Notre Dame has always had a deep concern for social justice in the world,” Barnard said. 
Barnard first viewed “Nefarious” at the annual ONETHING Conference in Kansas City, Mo. in Decem­ber. ONETHING, hosted each year by the Interna­tional House of Prayer, is a four-day Christian confer­ence that encourages young adults around the country to join together in prayer and reflection. 
“It was [at ONETHING] that they showed ‘Nefari­ous’ and had the director, Benjamin Nolot, come and speak to us before and af­ter they showed it,” Barnard said. “There were about 15,000 people there that got to see ‘Nefarious.’” 
The film challenges Catho­lics to address an issue that is “sensitive, provoking and disturbing,” Barnard said. 
“It calls us to a place of prayer to come together to work to address this issue and to abolish modern-day slavery,” he said. “So it’s a reminder, and a call to take action. One of the ways we can do that is through prayer.” 
According to a United Na­tions report, human traffick­ing is a $32 billion per-year industry, bringing in more revenue than the NFL, NBA, NHL, and MLB combined. 
Barnard said after the conference, he received an email from a missionary he met at the ONETHING con­ference, asking if he would be interested in hosting a screening of “Nefarious” at Notre Dame. 
“I said I’d love to,” he said. “[The missionary] then put me in contact with members of the Incurable Fanatics [Screening] Tour. They work for an organization called Exodus Cry, the foundation that made this film.” 
Barnard said Sarah Smith, program coordinator for the Student Welfare and Development Office and Notre Dame representa­tive for Christian Athletes, also helped bring the film to Notre Dame. 
“[Smith] has been coor­dinating with the members from Exodus Cry, and she’s been the representative from Notre Dame Christian Athletes to bring this film to campus,” Barnard said. 
“Nefarious” will be shown tonight at 8 p.m. in 101 De-Bartolo Hall. Admission is free. 

Contact Adam Llorens at             allorens@nd.edu 


Monday, April 23, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
The back of the shirt also issues include abortion, mar-the Vatican, respectively. How-



Shirt 

features both the official 

Porter 

riage and family values. ever, LDS clergy are part-time 125th anniversary-year logo 
“We have good relations with volunteers who hold other jobs continued from page 1 of the football program, and 
continued from page 1 some senior Catholic leaders, and are not paid for their minis-text about pride and tradi­
and even though we come from try work, he said. help the white text pop bet-tion of the team. 
Porter said the LDS Church different religions, we have com-In the final portion of his talk, ter,” he said. “We liked the look of a 
also strives to maintain equality mon values and interests in the Porter said he would address the Alea said there is no pat-player running out of The 
in members’ access to religious international arena,” Porter said. LDS Church’s attitude towards tern to choosing the color for Shirt, but moreover, we 
and educational resources. “We certainly have members government, politics, war and The Shirt each year — rath-liked the look of a player 
“We try to promote equal-with different views and don’t national security in relation to er, each committee chooses running out of the tradi­
ity among members in church try to impose political views on the recent wave of publicity fo­a color to best match their tions behind The Shirt and 
operations across country bor-people, but the Church has taken cused on the Mormon faith as theme. the football program,” Alea 
ders, rather than equality in a fairly conservative stance on a result of Romney’s campaign The images for this year said. 
private income,” he said. “We those issues.” for the Republican presidential were chosen to help repre-Former wide receiver 
manage the contributions from Porter said the LDS Church nomination. sent the past, present and Golden Tate’s image is on 
members so that all the money agrees with the Catholic Church’s “As a church, we are politically future of Notre Dame foot-the front of the shirt along 
is redistributed centrally so position on abortion and is op-neutral and do not endorse any ball, Alea said. with the words, “Shake 
the same kinds of chapels and posed to same-sex marriage, but candidate, but we have to deal “The players on The Shirt down the thunder.” 
meeting houses [exist] in poor the churches differ in their views with the publicity generated by each represent something,” “The front is kind of cool, 
and rich cities.” on the use of contraception. Romney’s campaign, some of he said. “We chose [former because [Tate] was No. 23, 
Additionally, the Church’s pri-“Our church has no position which has been inaccurate,” Por­running back] Alan Pinkett and this is the 23rd year for 
vate welfare system includes a on contraception. We agree that ter said. and [former wide receiver] The Shirt,” Couey said. 
fund that has helped more than religious organizations or hos-Above all, Porter said he hopes Tim Brown [for] the back, Alea said “Shake down the 
50,000 members attain higher pitals shouldn’t have to provide to express the central mission because they are celebrat-thunder” was chosen as the 
education in 50 countries over contraception because it relates and values of the Mormon faith ing the past of Notre Dame text for the front because 
the past 11 years, Porter said. to issues of religious freedom, during his talk at Notre Dame. football.” it is an iconic Notre Dame 
“We realized a lot of members but there is no prohibition on the “I want to express that the Pinkett and Brown’s pic-phrase, conveying the pow-
were stuck in poverty without use of contraception,” he said. Church is a worldwide, not tures are shown in black erful sense of tradition The 
education,” he said. “Like any “We think it’s important that American, church that is polit­and white to reflect their in-Shirt Committee strove for. 
church, we want to bring salva-people of conscience can follow ically-neutral and is very com­fluence on the football pro-“It represents the tradi­
tion to our members, but we also that conscience, so in that re-mitted to uplifting the lives of its gram’s past. tions …  We’re been fierce 
want to bring them a better life. gard, we’re 100 percent behind members throughout the world, Former tailback Robert and always will be fierce,” 
We don’t just see our work as be-the [Catholic] Church.” and tries to do social good and Hughes is also on the back of he said. “We wanted to mod­
ing for the next life, so we work In general, the LDS Church’s social justice throughout the the shirt, but in color. ernize the design of The 
in the here-and-now to help peo-views on many moral and social world.” “The original image [of Shirt and make it in-your­
ple.” issues are founded in its belief in Porter’s talk, sponsored by Hughes] is of him leading face, and I think we did a 
The LDS Church’s humanitar-the importance of the right to re-the Notre Dame International the team out of the tunnel,” really great job of doing 
ian collaboration with Catholic ligious freedom, Porter said. Security Program and the Toc-Alea said. “His look, his pose that.” 
Relief Services and other Cath-“We believe religious freedom queville Program on Religion is exactly what we are look­
olic-affiliated charities aligns it is one of the fundamental rights and Public Life, will take place ing for in terms of a fierce Contact Anna Boarini at 
with the Church’s commitment of all of our members and all at 4 p.m. Tuesday in 119 DeBar-Notre Dame player.” aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
to social justice, Porter said, but people,” he said. tolo Hall, and is open to the pub-the two institutions also share Porter said the LDS Church is lic. similar views on some moral similar to the Catholic Church and social issues. He said those in their centralized world head-Contact Kristen Durbin at 
Graduate Schools.” 
quarters in Salt Lake City and kdurbin@nd.edu The graduate programs 
bestowing degrees at the May 19 ceremony include continued from page 1 Notre Dame MBA, Executive 
Woo 

pus in the fall, gradually re-In January, Notre Dame MBA, Master of Nonprofit 

DeMaria 

covered and began to swim held a Mass of Remembrance demic programs and was Administration and Master 
again. Because swimming in the Basilica of the Sacred recognized as the nation’s of Science in Accountancy. 
continued from page 1 was such a big part of her life Heart on the 20th anniversa­leading As president and CEO 
at Notre Dame, DeMaria said ry of the bus crash. DeMaria business of Catholic Relief Servic­
“I knew at that moment I returning to the pool and the said she originally planned to school 
es, Woo presides over the 
would be fine. It didn’t mat-swim team was the highlight spend the day with her fam­in ethics 
operations of the official 
ter that I was a freshman, it of her recovery. ily, but when the Mass was education 
international humanitar­
didn’t matter that I couldn’t “Swimmers are swimmers. organized, she knew she had and re­
ian agency of the Catholic 
walk or I may never swim It’s all that I can do … I’m at to attend. search. 
community in the United 
again for the University,” she home in the pool. Someone “It was the right place for In ad-
States, which serves more 
said. “I was part of this fam-asked me today what my fa-me to be. I think I knew I dition, 
than 130 million people in 
ily, and whatever shape that vorite place on campus is, is would wake up that morning the Notre 
nearly 100 countries annu­
was going to take, I would be it the Grotto or Rolfs [Aquatic and want to be here … Once I Dame 
ally. 
fine.” Center],” she said. “Well, I knew there was going to be a MBA pro-Jacqueline Novogratz, 
DeMaria said she believes love the Grotto, but Rolfs is Mass, I knew I had to be here. gram was founder and chief executive 
she would not have received Rolfs — it’s that sense of chlo-It wasn’t an option to not get r a n k e d officer of the nonprofit pov­
the same level of support rine, that smell.” here,” she said. “It was exact-No. 25 in erty-relief venture the Acu­
had she attended a different A year after returning to ly what it should be.” the U.S. men Fund, was the keynote 
university. She said it was campus, DeMaria swam in In her current role as first News and speaker at Mendoza’s 2011 
“amazing” that students, fac-her first meet since the acci-vice president of the Mono-World Re-graduate commencement 
ulty, professors and coaches dent, winning her heat of the gram Club, DeMaria said she port 2013 survey of “Best ceremony. 
continued to visit her at the 50-yard freestyle. loves interacting with stu­hospital in the two months But she said the meet dent-athletes at Notre Dame. following the accident. was not so much a personal Through these relation­
“It’s very characteristic to achievement as it was a rep-ships, DeMaria said she re-have support at the initial resentation of the strength alizes while the campus has time of an incident or acci-of the University family. Not changed physically, the Uni-dent happening, but that sup-only were professors and fel-versity spirit she experienced port never went away,” she low students in attendance, as a student is still alive. said. “That’s what I think is but the state trooper who first “That sense of what the stu­so unique to Notre Dame.” responded to the accident and dents do, and the traditions 
Physically, DeMaria said her emergency room doctor that haven’t gone away, just the toughest point in her re-were present as well. sort of those snapshots of life covery was when she was “It was also almost like here on campus, a lot of that transferred from South Bend every other meet,” she said. hasn’t changed,” she said. “I to a hospital in San Diego two “That’s what I wanted it to love that.” months following the acci-be, at least for myself. It was When she considers how dent. a big deal in the sense that far she has come in the time 
“By that point, my spine it was such an illustration of since the accident, DeMaria had re-collapsed, they the sense of community that said she is thankful for the weren’t able to straighten my is here.” good that has come out of spine. I was looking at a life DeMaria said receiving the such a trying experience. being very uncomfortable,” Beeler-Hipp Award, named “When I say it truly she said. “I had suffered for freshmen Meghan Beeler changed everything in my heart failure, my lungs had and Colleen Hipp, who died life, it truly changed every-collapsed. I was really in bad in the bus accident, was the thing in my life,” she said. “I shape, physically.” “greatest honor” she could am so blessed and so happy, 
DeMaria said moving away have received at the time. and find meaning in things I from the Notre Dame family First awarded her freshman never would have before. It’s came with emotional chal-year to a freshman male and a challenge at times to think lenges as well. female swimmer, she said the that all of this stemmed from 
“I didn’t have people com-Beeler-Hipp Award remains such a sad event … It’s hard to ing to see me every day,” she the most meaningful honor be grateful for something that said. “It was a very isolating she has ever been given. happened, yet I’m so grateful time, because I didn’t neces-“To be honored in their for the lessons I’ve learned sarily have the level of sup-name, and to have known because of it.” port that I did here, because them, has always been one of people just didn’t know.” the most meaningful things Contact Sam Stryker at                  
DeMaria returned to cam-to me,” she said. sstryke1@nd.edu 




page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, April 23, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 



These are my people 
The other day, I realized I am really lucky. Not because my baseball team is playing great (they aren’t) or because I figured out what I want to do with my life (I haven’t). I’m lucky because I have some seriously amaz­ing friends. 
My mom always says you should count your blessings if you can count your close friends on one hand. Well, according to my mom, I’m one lucky girl. 

Caroline is my sister, my partner in crime, my mortal enemy and my best friend. She’s the person who wears my clothes without asking, and always knocks me down a peg when I’m getting a little too cocky. Basically, she’s the per­son who can be screaming at me about using her hairspray one minute and threatening bodily harm to the boy who broke my heart the next. She’s my little sister, and even when I hate her, she’s my best friend in the world. 
Fran is my roommate and confidant. She knows pretty much everything there is to know about me, and she knows what I’m thinking before I do. We’re total opposites, but somehow it works. She’s the person I can never hide my true feel­ings from, and she always knows how to make me laugh, even when I think I’ll never be able to laugh again. 
Carolyn and Jenna make up Fran and I’s crazy foursome. They complete our little group. Carolyn and I have serious life chats while doing superficial girly stuff, like going tanning and drinking too much coffee. Jenna is the girl who, no matter what we’re talking about, can make it even more hilarious. These three have been there for me through a lot, and our “Sex and the City” marathons, complete with pints of Ben and Jerry’s, do my soul a lot of good. 
One of my friends is not really my friend. She is my chum, Jenny. Fresh­man year, we decided we were more than friends and we have been chums ever since, just like Nancy, Bess and George from the “Nancy Drew” books. I’ve known Jenny since the first night of freshman year, and she’s been important to me ever since. Whether we’re talking about “Gilmore Girls” or she’s hold­ing my hand through my first broken heart, Jenny has been there. She is my constant, and someday we’ll be able to share stories of how we met in college with our kids, who will also be chums. 
Jenny is the person who introduced me to Bonnie. Even though I thought Bonnie hated me when we first met, I later realized she was just shy and getting used to my crazy, over-the-top personality. 
She’s the person I turn to when I need advice. She tells me what she thinks and what she thinks is best for me. Bonnie always makes sure I’m okay, and, on one of the worst nights of my life, she brought me a huge bag of Peppermint Patties, an act I’m still grateful for. 
These are my people. The girls I turn to. The ones who have been there through every defining moment of my college experience, and the ones who will be there a year from now when col­lege is ending. Even better, they will be the ones around for years to come. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Anna Boarini 
News Writer 

Who do I say that I am? 
I applied to Notre Dame on a whim. But everyday, I thank God that I did. 
Why? Because here is where I met my boyfriend of four years. 
In high school, I was a wild child. I caused my parents a lot Dee Tian of grief, and didn’t re-Confessions of a ally believe Christian Party Girl in serious relationships (“Independent Women” by Destiny’s Child was my theme song). That all changed when I met my boyfriend at Domerfest. For the first time in my life, I understood what all those cheesy love songs and silly romantic comedies were about. He made me a better person in so many ways, and I thanked God every day for blessing me with him. His close rela­tionship with his family prompted me to seek reconciliation with mine, his incred­ible intellect pushed me to work harder in school and he showed me there was more to life than partying every night. 
Everything was perfect until junior year. Details aside, our relationship did not weather the doubt, lies and buried issues that surfaced that year. I slowly began to lose interest in things — going out on the weekends, hanging out with friends, and finally and most gravely, “Gyro Day” at the dining hall. I began crying all the time — when I was do­ing homework, when I was working out. Once, I even burst into tears while tak­ing a Managerial Economics exam. My professor probably just thought I stunk at Economics, which I did. I slipped into a deep depression that threatened to engulf me. And I couldn’t talk to my friends about it, because who would understand? I felt utterly alone. 

Who was I without him? My boyfriend was the foundation upon which I had built my life, my goals, my future. If I didn’t know who he was, I didn’t know who I was anymore. I experienced tre­mendous spiritual doubt and trials during this time. I had been a good girl, for the most part, so how could God stand to see me like this? 
Yet through this whole disaster, I felt God’s presence. Hadn’t the Lord been preparing me for this? It was during this time that I received my first Christian literature book. I discovered Christian rock, and listened to it hours at a time. A counselor from my church worked with me, constantly reminding me of God’s love. God was working in my life all along, I just couldn’t see it. He had completely broken me down, only to build me up again, this time with Him as the center of my life. 
I grew immensely through this experi­ence. I realized that my boyfriend should not have been my first priority. That seat belonged to my Heavenly Father. Through these months of pain and confusion, the Lord had been the one in which I sought peace. He loved me despite my many imperfections, my doubt and anger and through my broken state. Our God is the only true Rock and source of uncondi­tional love. 
So much good has come out of that ter­rible mess. I became closer with my mom, embracing instead of dismissing her quirks (she bought me an apron that says “Will Cook for Diamonds” for Christmas). I had been humbled and learned to stop being so judgmental of other people’s relationships. I rediscovered how amaz­ing my friends were in their 24/7 “Dee-Watch” filled with cards and cookies. I learned that I could survive on my own, I didn’t need a man. And most importantly, I found God’s love … in this hopeless place. 
In the past, I read my Bible and prayed each day, as if checking things off a “to­do” list. Today, I’m on the Notre Dame Encounter Board and have encouraged many of my friends, and successfully pressured a few, into going on the retreat, as it is an incredible spiritual experi­ence. I also write this column in hopes of challenging and encouraging students to explore their spirituality. I’m working on building a personal relationship with God. 
I applied to Notre Dame on a whim. But everyday, I thank God that I did. Why? Because here is where I truly found God. 
So who do I say that I am? I am a child of God. My faith is the most important value in my life, above all others. Today, I have rebuilt my relationship with my boyfriend, and it’s stronger than ever, because we have both committed to helping one another grow closer to God. My self-worth isn’t based on how many parties I get invited to each weekend, or my academic success or failure, or my romantic relationship. I am whole and complete, solely because I am a child of God. I am desperately loved by the maker of this universe. I am His. 
So I ask this of you, who do you say that you are? 
Dee Tian is a senior marketing major with minors in philosophy and anthropology. She can be reached at ytian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Democrats are in line with Catholic faith 
Mr. Diamond, 

I am writing today in response to your risibly critical Letter to the Editor (“Holy Votes reponse,” April 20) in which you call into question Rosato’s argumentation. Although your knowledge of Catholic doctrine is impressive and your recall astounding, your knowledge of the Democratic platform (or lack thereof) is frightening. You also say that, as Catholics, we cannot in good conscience vote for a political candidate that supports abortion, or does not respect the tenants of Catholic doctrine. You have missed the point of Rosato’s arguments. In the lack of a candidate that fully supports Catholic doctrine, we must choose the candidate that is best is in keeping with doctrine. 
You call the Democrats a political party that promotes a “Culture of Death.” This is frighteningly strong language, especially given the Republican stance on capital punishment. The truth of today’s political realm is that there is no candidate that is in perfect keeping with Catholic doctrine. Rosato is advocating that in light of this political world, we do not allow ourselves to become single-issue voters and decide which party is most in line with our faith. Also, I would strongly suggest for you to read the Demo­cratic Party Platform that you so harshly dub a “Culture of Death.” 
Please allow me to enumerate some things that you will find in the 2008 Democratic Platform. All of these things come before the section in which they explain their the pro-choice stance on page 52 of 59 (a stance that also supports income support and caring adoption promotion for those that choose to carry their children to term). They are as follows: affordable health care for all Americans, ending HIV/AIDS around the world, ending poverty, gender equality, education for all children, ending the war in Iraq, ending the spread of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear disarmament, promoting global health, ending human trafficking, preventing and responding to future natural disasters and promoting the family. Does this seem like a “Culture of Death?” When a party devotes only one paragraph to a woman’s right to choose out of fifty-nine pages, can you really call it “manifestly pro-abor­tion?” No sir, you cannot. I wholeheartedly agree with Rosato. I stand proudly as a Catholic, pro-life Democrat and have no qualms 
about it. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The meeting of two personalities is like the contact of two chemical substances: If there is any reaction, both are transformed.” 
Carl Jung Swiss psychologist 


Drew Davis 
senior Sorin College April 20 
WEEKLY POLL 
How do you deal with finals-week stress? 
Coffee breaks Naps Pick-up basketball A visit to the Grotto 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Monday, April 23, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
The last Waste-Free Wednesday 
Well, it’s been fun folks … I’m sad to say that this coming Wednesday will be the last Waste-Free Wednesday of the semester. While it does defeat the purpose, I do have to say it’s been en­tertaining watching some of you dump Anna Gorman your food scraps on your friends’ plates Ask the so that you can get GreenMan a raffle ticket. I appreciate all of you who have made a concerted effort to take less and waste less. 
Seeing how much food we waste in our dining halls each day while knowing how many people, especially children, in our own South Bend com­munity are going to bed hungry each night kills me. Not that I’m trying to guilt trip you necessarily, but if it’s working — sorry, I’m not sorry. 
Sometimes I know it can be really hard not to waste, especially on days when the dining hall decides to offer every single one of your favorite foods, and you feel like you’re betraying the food if you don’t put it on your plate. If you take smaller portions, though, this isn’t so much of a problem. Go for seconds. 
Yeah, it may take more time, but honestly, who doesn’t feel somewhat more legitimate when their procras­tination happens in the dining hall, instead of sitting around in their room? You could also try going tray-less. Inevitably, you’ll take less, waste less, get your food faster and become a pro at weaving through crowds of backpacks. 
And while we’re on the topic of food sustainability, I may as well throw in some information about the benefits of going meatless and eating season­ally. Most people don’t realize how many resources are required for meat production and the impact it has on the environment. 
For instance, if every daily-meat­eating American went meat-free once a week, it would be the equivalent of taking 8 million cars off the road. Livestock are a major cause of meth­ane gas emissions and deforestation. It takes almost 1,000 gallons of water to produce one pound of hamburger. 

I rarely crave meat, and even more rarely eat red meat, but ironically every Friday in Lent I really want a hamburger. It’s miserable. I’m no vegetarian, and I’m not asking you to completely give up meat by any means. I know the idea seems a bit daunting, but at least try at a few meals. The dining halls offer plenty of delicious vegetarian meals, I promise. 
In case you weren’t aware, Food Services does what it can to source locally and use seasonal ingredients when possible. But, because they love us all so much, they still provide those menu items we secretly crave that are neither local nor seasonal. Flying foods cross-country, especially refrigerated foods, is pretty darn energy-intensive. Also, who doesn’t want to help out our local farmers? Would Notre Dame really be the same without the scent of ethanol? No, no it would not. 
To sum things up, please try re­ally hard not to waste, especially this Wednesday. Improve your weaving abilities and go without a tray. Try for a few meatless meals a week, and eat more of the foods labeled “locally sourced.” Happy Day-After-Earth-Day! 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com, and let him answer you with a sustain­able twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on, until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR Faculty call to distance Notre Dame from Jenky’s ‘incendiary statement’ 
Dear Fr. Jenkins and Richard Notebaert, 
As you will be aware, the Bishop Daniel Jenky, a member of Notre Dame’s Board of Fellows, has been widely quoted for a homily in which he described President Obama as “seem[ing] intent on following a similar path” to Hitler and Stalin. Jenky’s comments demonstrate ignorance of history, insensitivity to victims of genocide and absence of judgment. 
We accept that Jenky’s comments are protected by the First Amendment, but we find it profoundly offensive that a member of our beloved University’s highest authority, the Board of Fellows, should compare the president’s actions with those whose genocidal policies murdered tens of millions of people, including the specific targeting of Catholics, Jews and other minorities for their faith. 
We request that you issue a statement on behalf of the University that will definitively distance Notre Dame from Jenky’s incendiary statement. Further, we feel that it would be in the best interest of Notre Dame if Jenky resigned from the University’s Board of Fellows if he is unwilling to renounce loudly and publicly this destructive analogy. 
Sincerely, 

Francisco Aragón, Institute for Latino Studies Carolina Arroyo, Political Science Katrina Barron, Mathematics Laura Bayard, Library Gail Bederman, History Patricia Blanchette, Philosophy Susan Blum, Anthropology Keith Bradley, Classics Kevin Burke, Institute for Education Initiatives Joseph Buttigieg, English William Carbonaro, Sociology Robert Coleman, Art, Art History and Design James Collins, Film, Television and Theater Frank Connolly, Mathematics Olivia Remie Constable, History Suzanne M. Coshow, Management Mary Rose D’Angelo, Theology Fred Dallmayr, Political Science and Philosophy Michael R. DePaul, Philosophy Michael Detlefsen, Philosophy Jean Dibble, Art, Art History and Design Bernard Doering, Emeritus, Romance Languages and Literature Margaret Doody, English Julia Douthwaite, Romance Languages and Literature Kevin Dreyer, Film, Television and Theater John Duffy, English Stephen M. Fallon, Program of Liberal Studies and English Barbara J. Fick, Law School Christopher Fox, English and Irish Studies Judith Fox, Law School Stephen Fredman, English Laura Fuderer, Library Agustin Fuentes, Anthropology Patrick Gaffney, Anthropology Jill Godmilow, Film, Television and Theater Robert Goulding, Program of Liberal Studies Daniel Graff, History Karen B. Graubart, History Stuart Greene, English David Hachen, Sociology Christopher Hamlin, History Richard Herbst, Law School Peter Holland, Film, Television and Theater Raúl Jara, Institute for Latino Studies Lionel M. Jensen, East Asian Languages and Cultures Felicia Johnson-O’Brien, Center for Social Concerns Anton Juan, Film, Television and Theatre Asher Kaufman, History and Peace Studies Kathryn Kerby-Fulton, English Janet A. Kourany, Philosophy Thomas Kselman, History Daniel Lapsley, Psychology Julia Marvin, Program of Liberal Studies Diana Matthias, Snite Museum James J. McKenna, Anthropology Maria McKenna, Africana Studies Mark McKenna, Law School Sarah McKibben, Irish Studies Rory McVeigh, Sociology Jenny Mish, Marketing Darcia Narvaez, Psychology Sean T. O’Brien, Irish Studies Catherine Perry, Romance Languages and Literatures Dianne Pinderhughes, Africana Studies and Political Science Ann Marie R. Power, Sociology 
F. Clark Power, Program of Liberal Studies and Institute of Education Initiatives Ava Preacher, College of Arts and Letters Gretchen Reydams-Schils, Program of Liberal Studies Luc Reydams, Political Science Robin Rhodes, Art, Art History and Design Charles Rosenberg, Art, Art History and Design David Ruccio, Economics Fred Rush, Philosophy Maura Ryan, Theology 
Valerie Sayers, English Catherine Schlegel, Classics Siiri Scott, Film, Television and Theatre Kristin Shrader-Frechette, Philosophy and Biological Sciences Anne Simons, Psychology John Sitter, English Cheri Smith, Library Donald Sniegowski, Emeritus-English James Sterba, Philosophy Julia Adeney Thomas, History Maria Tomasula, Art, Art History and Design Chris VandenBossche, English John Van Engen, History Laura Walls, English Robert E. Walls, American Studies and Anthropology Peter Walshe, Political Science Andrew Weigert, Sociology Henry Winfield, Program of Liberal Studies Paul Weithman, Philosophy Richard Williams, Sociology Pam Wojcik, Gender Studies and Film, Television and Theatre 
faculty University of Notre Dame April 22 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, April 23, 2012 

By BRENNA WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 

My family doesn’t pass down many things, but this week’s recipe is one of them. In my home, since I’m from the South, we just call them “Peanut Butter Balls.” However, since coming to Notre Dame, I’ve been informed in the Midwest, they’re called “Buckeyes.” Whatever you call them, there’s no going wrong with peanut butter and chocolate. They’re basically homemade Reese’s — and what could be wrong with that? 
I have this recipe in a binder scrawled on a piece of paper from my stepdad’s mother, and I would guard it with my life. It’s so simple, but so delicious, and with very easy steps, few ingre­dients and no oven, there’s no excuse not to enjoy them. 
With finals coming, you need sugar to keep you awake and to make you happy, and these will not disappoint. 
Ingredients: 

16 oz (about one regular jar) of peanut butter 
1/3 cup of unsalted butter, softened 
2 tbsp vanilla extract 
2 cups powdered sugar 

2 cups chocolate chips, any kind 
Instructions: 

1. Mix together peanut butter, powdered sugar, butter, and vanilla extract in a bowl until combined. Cover and place the bowl in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. Tip: Leaving it in longer will keep the mixture together better when covering in chocolate. 
2. Remove the bowl from the refrigerator, and roll peanut butter mixture into small balls. 
3. 
Create a double broiler by heating water in a pot and placing a larger, empty pot on top. Turn on the stove to high and allow the water to boil. Place the chocolate in the top pot ¾ it will melt without burning because of the indirect heat from the boiling water beneath. 

4. Stir the chocolate chips as they melt until smooth. Remove the top pot from the heat. 

5. 
One-by-one, roll the peanut butter balls in the chocolate until covered. If you want to be a true Midwesterner, make sure to leave an uncovered spot on the top to create the Buckeye aesthetic. 

6. 
Place the chocolate-covered balls on a baking sheet covered with wax paper and place in the refrigerator for at least 45 minutes. 


I would suggest serving and storing these treats cold because there is nothing better than cold chocolate. Hopefully, these will make you or someone you love smile. I know if someone were to bring these to me while I was writing a final paper, my day would improve exponentially. Enjoy! 
Contact Brenna Williams at bwillia9@nd.edu 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 

It’s just a week and a half un­til summer starts (a little more if you care about this cinematic remake of the 1960s television show. Depp plays an 18th-century vampire who awakes from a spell in the 20th century. It’s an odd concept, made by an odd 
director and with an Clement of “Flight of the Concords” join the cast, which ensures an entertaining film. 

“Prometheus” 
This sci-fi thriller from the mind return, including action-movie­stud Channing Tatum, and adding Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson and Bruce Willis. The G.I. Joes are branded as traitors by an infil­trated American government, and 
finals), and the 


odd star, and has made of Ridley Scott marks the director’a the Joes must organize a second summer movie 
for an odd trailer. But return to the genre he helped revo-American Revolution in order to re-season is going 
if Burton and Depp’s lutionize in the 1970s and ‘80s with claim the world from the evil Cobra to be monstrous. 
history is any indicator, “Blade Runner” and “Alien.” The Command. There are big-
this film will be full of film’s trailer is as creepy time blockbust­
dark humor and fun. and intriguing as they 

“The Dark Knight 
ers coming out come, with scary music, 

Rises” 
every single 

“Men in Black 3” cut scenes and flashes of 
It’s appropri­week, and it’s 
Will Smith intro-tension, but all without 
ate to end the list time to get ex­
duced this movie say-giving any of the plot 
with the biggest cited. 
ing, “We’re here for one away. The movie stars 
one of all. The purpose, and for one Noomi Rapace, Michael 
third and much­
“The Avengers” 

purpose only: Just to let Fassbender and Charlize 
anticipated final Marvel’s long-
you know that I’m about Theron on a ship bound 
entry into director term scheme to make 3-D look good.” on a scientific expedition 
Christopher Nolan of getting the world excited about This sequel has been in develop-to discover the origins 
and star Christian superheroes again is finally about ment for 10 years, but is finally of mankind. That’s the 
Bale’s Batman to pay off, as virtually all their hitting theaters this summer. Agent only synopsis Scott has 
franchise finally blockbuster superhero films of the J (Smith) must travel back in time allowed out, but the film hits theaters. past few years converge into one to save Agent K (Tommy Lee Jones promises to be fantastic. Nolan has been slowly letting out mega-film of epic proportions. The and Josh 
details about the film, most com-film stars Robert Downey, Jr. as Brolin as 
“G.I. Joe: Retali-pletely insignificant, but regard-Iron Man, Chris Evans as Captain the younger 
ation” less, the excitement and buzz have America, Mark Ruffalo as the Hulk, incarnation). 
The first film been growing. The previous cast Chris Hemsworth as Thor, Scarlett In case of 
was surpris-returns, with the addition of Anne Johansson as the Black Widow and any doubts 
ingly good, Hathaway and Tom Hardy as Cat-Jeremy Renner as Hawkeye. It cost of the come-
considering the woman and Bane, respectively. The a reported $220 million to make, dic mate­
extremely-low first two films in the series have but the early reviews are saying it rial being 
expectations of set a ridiculously-high standard, was worth every penny. stale, both 
the movie-going making this one of the most excit-Bill Hader 
public, and the ing and anticipated premieres in “Dark Shadows” of “Satur­
sequel looks even years. Oddball-genius director Tim Bur-day Night 
better. Much ton teams up once again with odd-Live” and 
of the cast of Contact Kevin Noonan at ball-genius actor Johnny Depp in Jermaine the first movie knoonan2@nd.edu 

DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 


Monday, April 23, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

By SAM STRYKER is Styles, with a puppy-dog smile and Assistant Managing Editor bouncy persona. While George is see­ing British soap star Michelle Keegan, The Yankees and the Red Sox. India Styles seems to be the hot dish in the and Pakistan. Jennifer and Angelina. boy-band buffet. He has attracted the The Jets and the Sharks. attention of Taylor Swift and Rihanna, 
And now, One Direction and The who have both admitted to crushes on Wanted. the barely-legal teenybopper. 
If history has taught us one thing, it This one is like picking apples or or-is that humans are naturally drawn to anges. Let’s call it a draw. conflict — and no conflict is more ap­pealing than a good old-fashioned head-The Intangibles to-head rivalry. You know you’ve made it when your 
For the past few weeks, popular mu-music is covered on “Glee,” and The sic has been dominated by these eerily Wanted beat One Direction to the punch similar groups. Both are five-member — the Warblers sang “Glad You Came” at British-Irish boy bands. Both have made Regionals. While it has been announced appearances on television shows — One “What Makes You Beautiful” will be in Direction on “Saturday Night Live” and an upcoming episode, The Wanted have Nickelodeon’s “Kid’s Choice Awards,” gotten out to a quick lead. and The Wanted on “American Idol” and Not to be outdone, One Direction ap­“The Voice.” pears to be a hot ticket – literally. While 
But like any good rivalry, someone The Wanted have just wrapped up their has to win — just as the Rebel Alliance first U.S. tour, One Direction is just get-defeated the Evil Empire in “Star Wars” ting started. The group is set to kick off and Coke outsells Pepsi, one group of the U.S. leg of their “Up All Night Tour” lads will need to come out on top. Who in May, and their December concert at will emerge victorious in the second Madison Square Garden sold out in less coming of the British Invasion? than 10 minutes. When most kids their 
age are worrying about getting into col-The Jams lege, these boys are packing The World’s 
“What Makes You Beautiful” and Most Famous Arena. “Glad You Came” are duking it out for The Wanted didn’t do too shabby in dorm party and dingy bar dominance, the concert business either, opening for and it’s hard to choose between the two. both Britney Spears and Justin Bieber. “What Makes You Beautiful” is a sunny But in the battle over the Biebs, One Di­ode to a girl unaware of her stunning rection has come out fighting. looks. On the other hand, “Glad You Niall Horan of One Direction has done Came” is a slinkier, slicker dance-floor the unthinkable — he’s gotten on Justin track. The two signature tracks set the Bieber’s bad side after flirting with Sele­tone for each act. One Direction’s jam is na Gomez at the “Kid’s Choice Awards.” bright, vibrant and catchy — something While this may have most normal peo­you just can’t get out of your head. ple shaking in their boots, Horan ap-
But The Wanted takes the cake here. pears to be safe for now. There are also Their single is infectious, and from the rumblings of a Bieber-One Direction first note, the song takes control of you. collaboration. One Direction’s song may be cute and In between selling out Madison catchy, but “Glad You Came” is like a fe-Square Garden and making the Biebs ver pulsating through every vain in your angry, One Direction also managed to body. snub the First Lady. Michelle Obama 
Advantage, The Wanted. personally invited the group to the White House’s annual Easter Egg Roll, The Leading Men but the group had to turn down the in-
In any music group, there is going to vitation due to “prior commitments.” be a shining star — think Justin Tim-Snubbing the First Lady — now that’s a berlake from ‘N Sync or Beyoncé from bold move. Destiny’s Child. People naturally gravi-Case closed — not only has One Di­tate to the biggest star, the most talent-rection drawn the ire of the Biebs, but ed in a group — contrary to what your they’re too busy for the White House. mother told you, not everyone gets to be These guys have swag. a winner. 
It is quite evident who the spotlight The Verdict shines on in each group — buzz-cut This one may have to go an extra babe-magnet Max George of The Want-round. Choosing between One Direction ed and mop-topped Harry Styles of One and The Wanted is like trying to pick Direction. between Chipotle and Five Guys after a 
These two boys could not look any hard night out — you can’t go wrong. In more different. On one hand, there is this battle, we all come out as winners. George, with steely-green eyes and smoldering good looks. In contrast there Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

Wading through the excessive amount of horrible films on Instant Netflix can be daunting for any subscriber. To ease the process, Scene has graciously provided a list of the best Netflix has to offer. 
1. “Rescue Me” 
This show, equal parts comedy and heartwrenchingdrama, follows Denis Leary as Tommy Gavin, a New Yorkfirefighter dealing with his life in the aftermath of 9/11.The show does not shy away from issues created by thetragedy, showing the ruined families, relationships andpsyches of the men who went into the buildings wheneveryone else was trying escape. But Leary, a comedian atheart, keeps the show from getting too down, and makesfor an entertaining combination of emotion and humor youcan’t stop watching. 
2. “Workaholics” 
For being a fairly-simplistic concept that seemed likely tobe cancelled at its launch, this Comedy Central show hasmaintained a high level of hilarity. The show is about threerecent college grads and world-class slackers that work ata telemarketing company and, not surprisingly, hate theirjobs. Blake Anderson, Adam DeVine and Anders Holm ofYouTube’s “Mail Order Comedy” all star in the show anddo most of the writing. They essentially play themselves,and the realness of the characters and writing make forconsistently funny television. 
3. “SpongeBob SquarePants” 
Relive your childhood and check out “SpongeBob.” Theshow needs no introduction for most, but for those rare few who missed out, head to Netflix immediately. SpongeBoblives in a pineapple under the sea, he’s absorbent andyellow and porous, and he’s full of nautical nonsense. Theshow is still running on Nickelodeon, but early seasons areavailable online. It’s a great chance to catch up on theadventures of SpongeBob, Patrick, Squidward, Sandy andof course, Gary the Snail. 
4. “Sherlock” 
The second season of “Sherlock” is just around thecorner, premiering on PBS on May 6, so there is no bettertime to check out (or re-watch) this BBC hit. “Sherlock”updates the classic stories of Arthur Conan Doyle’sdetective to the 21st century, where the titular investigatormust utilize cell phones, computers and other forms ofnew technology to solve his cases. This fresh new takeon Sherlock Holmes keeps all the integrity of the originalstories, while updating the mysteries with style and ease. 
5. “Hot Tub Time Machine” 
While this film isn’t exactly the most thought-provoking ever made, it is good for laughs. The science-fictioncomedy follows the story of four adult men who travelback in time to the 1980s, thanks to a time-shifting hot tub.They relive some of the moments that defined their boring,unfulfilling lives and, of course, emerge from the situationwith a new, positive outlook on life. The plot may be trite,but with a cast that includes Chevy Chase, Craig Robinsonand Crispin Glover, the movie definitely has its worthwhilecomedic moments. 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 23, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Superstitions emerge in quest for perfection 
Perfection. 
It’s a rare thing in sports, that’s for sure. No one shoots a round of 18 on the golf course, or even 18-under. When was the last time you saw a football team allow its opponent exactly zero yards of of­fense? Point me to the last time a basketball team shut out its op­ponent. 
In baseball, though, perfection is real. It’s exceedingly rare, but it’s real — and Saturday, White Sox Philip Humber became the 21st player to achieve perfection when he retired 27 consecutive Mariners. 
The best part of a perfect game, however, might be all of the superstition surround­ing it — and that’s something unique to baseball, too. 
Go back and pull up the highlights of the last inning of Humber’s perfect game. Notice the game was played in Seattle, not Chicago. Listen to the crowd’s reaction to each out. Sure, it’s not as loud as it would have been in U.S. Cel­lular Field. But after Humber retires the first two batters of the inning, the crowd is on its feet with the peculiar and unique sort of nervous energy that comes along with no-hit­ters and perfect games. 
Even though they all knew what was happening and re­alized they were on the cusp of witnessing history, no one in that crowd of 22,472 dared mention the feat in progress, for fear of jinxing it. Observ­ers on Twitter took pains to not mention the “p-word,” in­stead noting Humber had “not allowed a batter to reach base for seven innings” or that “something really special” was happening on Fox. 
Once a perfect game be­came a real possibility, Humber’s teammates stopped talking to him for fear of throwing him off — there’s no messing with perfection. The whole park holds its breath with every pitch and ner­vously exhales at every out. All of a sudden, what was just another early-season contest became a pressure cooker to be remembered more than perhaps any of the other 161 games on each teams’ 2012 schedules. 

You can watch it, you can read about it and you can imagine it. But it’s not really the same until you’ve expe­rienced something like it. 
A few years ago, I was at old Yankee Stadium to watch Chien-Ming Wang take the hill for the Yankees against a cellar-dwelling team from Tampa named the Devil Rays. (My, how times have changed.) Wang sat down the side in the first inning, and then did it again in the second. The group of guys in front of us was excited to watch a Yankee win, and ordered another round of beers. 
Then the third inning started, and when Wang re­tired those three batters in short order, the mood nearly instantly changed. No longer were we watching a mid-Ju­ly snoozer. Everyone sat up a little straighter. The guys in front of us stopped ogling girls and started watching where the rightfielder was positioned. All of a sudden, Derek Jeter and Alex Rodri­guez at-bats were just in the way of what we wanted to see. 
Wang took the hill for the fourth inning and left it unscathed again, and the House that Ruth Built was abuzz. No one would ever admit why, but we all knew what was happening. Was there a chance, we won­dered? 
As it turns out, there wasn’t — Ty Wiggington led off the fifth with a single, and Wang finished with a two-hit complete game that would turn out to be one of the best of his career. But I still remember the nervous energy that pervaded the Bronx air that night. I can’t really imagine what it would have been like in the eighth or ninth inning if Wang had kept it up, though the word “incredible” comes to mind. 
I know this for sure, though. It wouldn’t have just been perfection for Wang, and it wasn’t just perfection for Humber. 
It was perfection for all of us. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu
   The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles earn key conference win 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
On Sunday, the Belles took a huge step toward making the MIAA conference tournament by beating conference opponent Adrian, 7-2. 
Saint Mary’s (10-7, 3-3 MIAA) started hot by winning all three doubles matches. Adrian (6-8, 2-6) managed to claim two of the singles matches, but the Belles proved victorious in the other four. 
For the Belles, winning dou­bles has been a reoccurring goal. It was no surprise that things were more of the same Sunday. 
“It was a very cold start and a very windy day,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “We talked about the importance of doubles since we play doubles first, and wanted to get off to a good start.” 
The Belles did exactly that, as they swept all three matches, managing a tiebreaker victory in the first doubles. Working together in first doubles, sopho­more Mary Catherine Faller and freshman Audrey Kiefer won a 9-7 tiebreaker set, claiming the sweep for the Belles. Campbell said starting like this is crucial, as it can greatly affect the tone of the match. 
“Going up 3-0 at the start of the match really helped us set the tone of the match for the rest of the day,” Campbell said. “It was really important to get off to that kind of lead, because it seemed to get Adrian down a bit, and it af­fected them the rest of the way.” 
This lasting effect showed up on the score sheet, as the Belles claimed four of the six singles matches. 
Both Faller and freshman Jack­ie Kjolhede managed clear 6-1, 6-0 victories. Both Kiefer and sopho­more Margaret Boden claimed victories for the Belles in singles, but their Adrian opponents played a little closer. Kiefer claimed the fifth singles for the Belles, winning 6-4, 6-2, and Boden took the win at the sixth spot, winning 6-1, 6-3. Adrian’s two victories came in the second and the third singles, as freshmen Kayle Sexton and Shan­non Elliott fell. Elliott did manage to make her match close, forcing a tiebreaker set, which was eventu­ally won by Adrian senior Sarah Brooks 10-7. Sexton encountered more of a challenge, as she lost 6-0, 6-0. 
“All in all, the day went really well,” Campbell said. “I thought we really performed well and pulled out a very big win.” 
As a conference matchup, this win was crucial for the Belles. Only the top four teams in the conference get a chance to play in the postseason tournament. Fol­lowing Sunday’s victory, the Belles sit at sixth in the standings, with two conference matches left on their schedule. This puts them in a must-win situation, Campbell said. 
“This win over Adrian brings back a bit of hope, but we still have two really big games against two really good teams coming up,” Campbell said. “We are probably going to have to win both matches to get into the conference tourna­ment, so, as a team, we really are in a must-win situation.” 
These must-win matches kick off for the Belles on Tuesday, when Saint Mary’s hosts Kalamazoo. Kalamazoo (5-14, 5-2) has strug­gled this season, but has an im­pressive conference record. This means against mutual opponents Kalamazoo has done well, Camp­bell said. 
“According to previous results against common opponents, Ka­lamazoo might be favored a bit,” Campbell said. “Still, we’re going to put everything together so that we can beat them.” 
On Tuesday, the Belles will look to get their second conference win in a row against Kalamazoo at 4 
p.m. at home, as they continue on their road to the MIAA tourna­ment. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at        asantmil@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Saint Mary’s takes down Hornets 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 

In a weekend doubleheader at last-place Kalamazoo, the Belles took care of business in two mercy-rule shortened contests, and put themselves in a strong position to make the MIAA tournament. 
Sophomore pitcher Callie Selner pitched 10 shutout innings and went 5-for-7 at the plate with 6 RBIs, while freshman outfielder Victoria Con­nelly went 5-for-6 as Saint Mary’s (24-10, 9-5 MIAA) took both games in five innings by scores of 8-0 and 15-0 over Kalamazoo (2-26, 1-13). 
With the wins, the Belles cur­rently sit in a tie for third place with Adrian with just two MIAA games left. In order to earn a spot in the conference tournament, they must finish in the top four. Hope currently trails by two games at 6-6, but the Belles own the tiebreaker if the teams finish with identical confer­ence records. 
“We’ve got to take care of business next weekend against second-place Alma, and at worst earn a split,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “Hope will be favored to win their remaining four games.” 
For Saturday’s games with Ka­lamazoo, neither contest was in doubt, as the Belles seized early leads. 
In the first game, senior pitcher Angela Gillis started the scoring on an RBI single in the first for an early 1-0 Saint Mary’s lead. The Belles offense then staged a two-out rally in the second, exploding for five runs. Seven straight Belles batters reached base, as Gillis contributed another RBI single, while freshman first baseman Jordie Wasserman doubled home a run. 
“[The early leads] gave our de­fense and pitching more time to relax,” Sullivan said. “They let Cal­lie Selner throw better and without much pressure.” 
The Belles added two more runs in the third to lead 8-0, and ended the game after five by mercy rule. Selner allowed just four base run­ners, all on singles, and struck out three. 
Meanwhile, in the second game, the Belles again jumped to an early lead via a Gillis RBI single in the first. Just like the first game, Saint Mary’s added five more in the second. 

Connelly singled home a run as part of her 4-for-4 performance in the second game. 
“As a lefty slap-hitter, [Connelly] did a good job of placing the ball where the fielders weren’t located,” Sullivan said. “She’s a smart kid, and is coming into her own as the season progresses.” 
The Belles added four more in the third on two-run singles from senior outfielder Lauren Enayati and Selner to increase their lead to 10-0. Enaya­ti finished the doubleheader 3-for-8 with 4 RBIs and six runs scored. In the fourth, their final inning at the plate, the Belles continued to tack on runs, as junior catcher Morgan Be­dan laced a two-run double to left-center as part of another five-run in­ning. The hit capped off a 3-for-5 day by Bedan, who contributed six RBIs. 
Selner (14-6) again pitched five shutout innings for the mercy-rule­shortened 15-0 win. 
The Belles play their last non-conference games of the season Wednesday in a doubleheader at Manchester beginning at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Matt Unger at                            munger3@nd.edu 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
PERSONAL  This day in history On April 23, 1954, Hank Aaron  According to tradition, the great English dramatist and poet William Shakespeare is born  At a speech at Tulane University, President Gerald Ford says the Vietnam War is finished  Less than two weeks after taking over as president after the death of Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harry S.  THE SECOND GREATEST EVENT ON CAMPUS!!!  
knocks out the first home run of  in Stratford-on-Avon on April 23,  as far as America is concerned.  Truman gives a tongue-lashing to  AFTER THE REVERED KEENAN  
his Major League Baseball career.  1564. Shakespeare’s date of death  “Today, Americans can regain the  Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav  REVUE, MUDDY SUNDAY IS THE  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Twenty years later, Aaron becomes  is conclusively known, however:  sense of pride that existed before  Molotov. The incident indicated  SECOND GREATEST EVENT ON  
Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame  baseball’s new home run king  it was April 23, 1616. He was  Vietnam. But it cannot be achieved  that Truman was determined to  CMPUS, WHICH EVERYONE WHO  
has many resources in place to  when he broke Babe Ruth’s long­ 52 years old and had retired to  by re-fighting a war.”  take a “tougher” stance with the  IS ANYONE SHOULD ATTEND.  
assist you. If you or someone  standing record of 714 career  Stratford three years before.  This was devastating news to  Soviets than his predecessor had.  THAT BEING SAID, MUDDY  
you love needs confidential  homers.  the South Vietnamese, who were  SUNDAY WILL OF COURSE TAKE  
support or assistance, please  Brian Boru, the high king of  desperately pleading for U.S.  On this day in 1969,Sirhan Sirhan  PLACE ON A SUNDAY, AND THE  
call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  Future President  Ireland, is assassinated by a group  support as the  is sentenced to the death penalty  SUNDAY WILL BE THIS SUNDAY!   
For more information, visit  James Buchanan is born in  of retreating Norsemen shortly  North Vietnamese surrounded  after being convicted in the  SO ALL OF YOU OUT THERE WHO  
ND’s website at: http://  Cove Gap near Mercersburg,  after his Irish forces defeated  Saigon for the final assault on the  assassination of politician Robert  UNFORTUNATELY DID NOT SIGN  
pregnancysupport@nd.edu  Pennsylvania, on this day in 1791.  them.  capital city.  F. Kennedy.  UP, SHOULD AT LEAST SHOW UP.  

Monday, April 23, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish win fifth straight title 

By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Despite injuries and rain de­lays, the Irish dominated the field in Tampa, Fla., and played their way to a fifth-straight Big East championship. 
After shutout wins over Rut­gers and DePaul, the week­end finished with the cham­pionship match against South Florida on Sunday. Initially scheduled for 9 a.m., rain de­lays pushed the start of the final match to 2 p.m. before they could begin their contest. Despite a late rally from South Florida, the Irish claimed a 4-2 victory and the Big East title. 
The Irish (19-7, 5-0 Big East) grabbed the doubles point with two close victories at No. 2 and No. 3 doubles. 
Senior Kristy Frilling dropped the first match of the day at No. 1 singles, losing 7-5, 6-3 and giving the Bulls their first point. Not long after, Kell­ner fell 6-4, 6-4, bringing the match to 3-2. 
Senior Shannon Mathews, who was named the tourna­ment’s Most Outstanding Play­er, came back from a 4-1 deficit in the first set before grabbing five-straight wins and clench­ing the Irish victory. She was 3-0 on the weekend and won every set. 
“It was a really rough game,” Frilling said. “We ended up not getting to the courts un­til 2 [p.m.] or 3 [p.m.] Every­one did a great job of staying focused. It’s hard when you’ve been standing around all day.” 
Sanders said that South Florida’s home-court advan­tage was a huge challenge. 
“Playing [South Florida] at [South Florida] was definitely tough,” Sanders said. “We had a loud crowd against us and that definitely helped our op­ponents. Our biggest thing was to focus on our match and not let anything around us af­fect our play.” 
Frilling said the victory will be a motivator heading into the NCAA championships. 
Sophomore Britney Sand­ers said the most difficult part of the weekend was the top competition. Sanders said the matches were not easily won. 
“The most difficult part was actually being the [No.] 1 seed,” Sanders said. “Every team we played had nothing to lose to they gave it their all.” 
The weekend began when the Irish hit the courts Fri­day against Rutgers, snatch­ing a 4-0 sweep.  Notre Dame grabbed each match in only two sets. Highlights included freshman Katherine White, who stepped up against South Florida on April 13 when sophomore Julie Sabacinski was injured. White has been undefeated since stepping in. 
The Irish pulled off an­other shutout against DePaul on Saturday to advance to the final round. Frilling and Mathews came from behind to win four straight games against Jasmin Kling and Gia McKnight to clinch the doubles point. The partners are 17-6 on the year and have won six straight matches.
 “We’re really happy with how we finished out our sea­son,” Frilling said. “We’re in the best position possible for the NCAA [tournament]. Now it’s a waiting game to see where we’ll be placed in the draw. We’ll spend the next few weeks perfecting our game as we head into the NCAA [tournament].” 
Notre Dame’s road to a na­tional championship will be­gin May 11, with the first and second rounds of the NCAA tournament. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 
Usher finishes first, leads team to win 
By PETER STEINER break 290 in any round. We Sports Writer didn’t play particularly well. In 
the fall, it didn’t seem like we 
In the end, the Battle of the had any advantage when we Warren did not prove to be were playing. much of a battle. “But 281 and 283 are really 
The Irish rose above the low scores, especially with the fray Sunday to easily win cold weather and the wind con-Notre Dame’s home event by ditions.” 36 strokes. In addition, the The field faced tougher condi-Irish swept the top six plac-tions than usual. The wind blew es on the leaderboard as the out of the northeast all day, entire Irish lineup finished forcing many of the Irish golf-above the rest of a field that ers to make some adjustments included Illinois State, Evans-to the style they may typically ville, Marquette and Bradley. play at their home course, Ku­
“We shot binski said. 281 and then “I haven’t 283 in the af-seen [the ternoon and conditions] 
“I think [this weekend’s 
both rounds too much 
performance] is a 
were under tougher than 
tremendous lift. It’s 
par,” Irish today and coach Jim Ku-the kind of golf we the guys did binski said. thought we’d be playing a really good “Illinois State throughout the year.” job,” Kubins­finished ex-ki said. “The actly at 600, guys had to
Jim Kubinski 
36 [strokes] get used to 
Irish coach 
behind us. Honestly, I don’t think it could have gone any better for us. We re­ally did a great job.” 
Irish senior Tom Usher took home the first-place fin­ish, shooting two-under par on the day with a 68 and 72. Fellow seniors Max Scodro, Chris Walker, and Ryan Coughlin also played well in their final match event at the Warren Golf Course, finishing third and tied for fourth, re­spectively. 
“Chris Walker came back from a 77 in the morning to shoot 68 in the afternoon,” Kubinski said. “Our other se­nior who made his debut in the lineup, Ryan Coughlin, has never made it into our lineup really, shot a 74 and 71, which was really nice.” 
A majority of the events for the Irish take place out-of­state so avoiding travel and playing a familiar course is not a phenomenon the Irish often experience. These ad­ditional comforts proved to be helpful for a Notre Dame squad that turned in one of its best performances in the spring season. 
“All the teams had prac­tice rounds yesterday, but of course we have played this course so many times so it is a nice advantage,” Kubinski said. “The interesting thing today is that you look at our fall tournament [at the War­ren Golf Course] and we didn’t it a little bit 
and it was 
worth a cou­
ple of shots. That’s why when we started today, I thought to myself that anything in the 280s, 290s to­day will be a solid round so to see a 283 was really great.” 
Marquette and Evansville followed second-place Illinois State, and finished with total scores of 601 and 604, respec­tively. The Irish also entered six individuals on the day, with the top finish coming from sophomore Andrew Carreon. 
The Irish have struggled at times during their spring sea­son, recording only one top six finish in three events. But Sun­day’s dominating performance can only serve to boost the team’s confidence as it heads into postseason play, Kubinski said. 
“I think [this weekend’s per­formance] is a tremendous lift,” Kubinski said. “It’s the kind of golf that we thought we were going to be playing throughout the year. 
“The guys never lost sight of what they wanted to do which is to win the Big East and have a chance to go and compete in the NCAAs. They still have those goals in mind and now they are really starting to play well.” 
The Irish prepare this week for the upcoming Big East championships held in Orlan­do, Fla. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Squad leads South Florida after first round of  tournament 
By NICK BOYLE on a high note,” Irish coach and sophomore Kristina 311. Louisville (312) and St. “We’re not carried by one Sports Writer Susan Holt said. “We’re really Nhim, both shooting a 74, John’s (314) round out the top player, and I like our chances excited about the opportuni-putting them in a seven-way five. because of that. We’ve had 
After a day of golf Sunday, ty.” tie for individual second-Freshman Kelli Oride fin-different players step up all Notre Dame started its title Freshman Ashley Arm-place. ished with a 75. Rounding year.” defense strong, leading the strong led Notre Dame, “We have five solid play-out the Notre Dame contin-Today’s second round play 2012 Big East tournament carding a one-over par 73. ers who on any day can go gent was senior Katie Allare. is scheduled to begin at 8:00 in Orlando with a score of The one-over was good out and get good scores,” Allare turned in a 78, put-a.m. The Irish golfers will 
296. The Irish lead second-enough to tie for the indi-Holt said. “That’s been one ting her five strokes off the be paired with golfers from place South Florida by two vidual tournament lead with of our strong points all sea-tournament-leading Arm-both South Florida and Rut-strokes after 18 holes of South Florida senior Kelli son.” strong. gers. golf. Pry. The Irish have a 15-shot “We’re five-strong, we need 
“We really have an opportu-Right behind Armstrong lead over the third-place all five of us to show up for Contact Nick Boyle at nity here to finish our season were senior Becca Huffer Rutgers, who opened with a us to compete,” Holt said. nboyle1@nd.edu 
page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Monday, April 23, 2012 
ND MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish fall to South Florida in semifinals, finish third 

By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
Entering the Big East champi­onships, the No. 28 Irish had not lost since they fell to South Flor­ida in Tampa, Fla., on March 17. 
After defeating No. 8 seed Vil­lanova Friday to advance to the semifinals, the Bulls met the Irish (20-8) yet again. But after a nearly five-hour long affair, the Irish were unable to over­come South Florida, losing a narrow 4-3 match. 
The Irish recovered from the heartbreaking loss Sunday, when they defeated St. John’s, 4-1, to claim third place at the championships. 
In their first match of the tournament, the Irish affirmed their No. 1 seed by taking ev­ery single set from the Wildcats (10-12) en route to a 5-0 vic­tory. Senior Niall Fitzgerald clinched both the doubles point with senior Casey Watt as well as the overall match — earning a 6-1, 6-2 victory over fresh­man Mike Rosengren at No. 5 singles. 
“I just think we are a lot stronger team and it wasn’t a difficult match,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “We were really weren’t pressed and it went as expected.” 
With the No. 1 seed and sev­en-match winning streak head­ing into Saturday, the Irish had their sights set on a champion­ship. But Notre Dame ran into a motivated South Florida squad playing behind a large home crowd. This clash resulted in a thrilling match from both sides, with the Irish falling just short of the win. 
“We knew they would be a difficult opponent,” Bayliss said. “It was a nearly five-hour match and it was one of the longest and probably one of the most exciting matches I’ve ever been a part of. It was a great atmo­sphere. They had a large, very vocal crowd and the nets swung back and forth.” 
The Irish jumped out to an early lead by taking the doubles point with victories at No. 2 and No. 3 doubles. South Florida and Notre Dame then traded points in singles. 
“At one point, we got up 3-2 in the match, so overall we had to win one of two [match­es],” Bayliss said. “But both of the two went into third-set tiebreakers and we just happened to lose them both. We had opportunities at No. 4 singles. We served for the match twice in the second set and lost the tiebreaker in the third set. 
“At No. 6 singles, we were up a service break twice in the third set and couldn’t quite hold on and lost two straight tiebreakers.” 
Bayliss said some players had difficulty adjusting to the different climate and experi­enced cramping. 
“[Sophomore Billy Pecor] had to spend an hour in the training room afterwards with extensive cramping,” Bayliss said. “[Junior Blas Moros] was cramping and [senior Niall Fitzgerald] was cramping. So we had three guys cramping at the end of the match from exhaustion. 
“They played a very inspired match. We were not great, but we weren’t bad. We fought pretty hard and we just didn’t quite get it.” 
After a physically and men­tally draining loss on Satur­day, the Irish met St. John’s to decide third place. With bad weather looming in the Tampa area, the Irish played the sin­gles matches first in attempt to shorten the match. Taking four of the five singles matches that finished, Notre Dame re­bounded from Saturday’s loss and secured the third place finish in the Big East champi­onships. 
“We actually came out great and we played extremely well [against St. John’s],” Bayliss said. “It was one of the better matches we’ve played.” 
With the conclusion of the Big East championships, the Irish will prepare for the NCAA tournament, which will begin May 11. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Split squad gets good results 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer  
The  Irish  wrapped  up  
a  successful  weekend  in  
Bloomington,  Ind.  in  the  

Polytan Invitational. Notre Dame was able to grab eight first-place victories during the weekend at Indiana Uni­versity. 
“It was a pretty solid week­end,” junior Jeremy Rae said. “A lot of our guys did very well and had some really good outings.” 
On the first day, Irish ath­letes claimed three first-place spots. Sophomore Kelly Burke was able to claim a victory in the triple jump with a 12.01-meter jump. Following close be­hind Burke was freshman Mary Esther Gourdin, who secured the second spot for the Irish with a leap of 12 meters. 
The Irish women also took first and second in the 400-meter hurdles, as freshman Kaila Bar­ber claimed first with a time of 58.92, while sopho­more Megan Yanik took a close second with a time of 1:00.24. 
Junior Rebecca Tracy claimed the third victory Saturday in the 1,500-me­ter run as she finished with a time of 4:20.05. The pat­tern of the Irish sweeping the top-two spots following a victory was continued, as sophomore Kelly Curran took second with a time of 4:22.64. 
Despite the impressive showing Saturday, the Irish managed to top this per­formance on Sunday as the team went on to claim five first-place finishes. In the field events, freshman Keith Mesidor won the long jump with a leap of 7.28 meters. Also in the field, All-Amer­ican senior Kevin Schipper took first in the pole vault with a vault of 5.40 meters. For Schipper, this vault was a season-best by .50 meters and moved him up 10th nationally for the pole vault and 3rd in the Big East. 
On the track, the Irish thrived as well. Freshman Aijah Urssery, who won the 200-meter dash with a time of 24.4 seconds, led the Irish. Urssery contin­ued her strong day with a second-place finish in the 100-meter dash (11.75 sec­onds). 
Also, Tracy continued to shine with another first place finish. She won her second event of the weekend with a time of 2:06.44 in the 800-me­ter. Freshman Jade Barber rounded off the Irish victo­ries when she finished the 100-meter dash in 54.90 sec­onds. Close behind her was sophomore Michelle Brown, who finished the race in 55.56 seconds. 
Yet, the Irish were with­out Rae and senior Johna­than Shawel, who had trav­eled across the country to compete in the Mt. SAC Relays. The Relays are an elite level of competition that features athletes at all levels. Both players compet­ed in the 1,500-meter run. Shawel shined, finishing 25th overall with a time of 3:49.24. 
Yet, Shawel’s strong per­formance was overshad­owed by the stellar perfor­mance put on by Rae. Rae placed fifth overall with a time of 3:40.93. Still, this time was more than good enough as it gave Rae the top collegiate time in the event. On top of this, Rae now has moved into third in the Big East with that time, as well as third overall in the country. 
The results weren’t as posi­tive as one might expect, Rae said. 
“I’m just a lot fitter than I was in the past, so I was able to [set a personal re­cord] in the event without doing my best,” Rae said. “I’m happy that I got the [personal record] but I also know I can go a lot faster so I’m not really that happy with it.” 
This desire to always do better is something the Irish will look to embrace in the coming days. The team will travel to Des Moines, Iowa for the Drake Relays, a three-day event that will take place all day Thursday, Friday and Sat­urday. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
ROWING 

Irish keep up with California rivals 
By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
The Irish pulled out three wins in their final non-confer­ence regatta against two high­ly ranked West Coast teams in Stanford and USC. 
Facing off against teams considered as rivals in other sports, Notre Dame found suc­cess in the varsity four, which won both races against the Cardinal and Trojans. 
The Irish didn’t have the same success in the larger boat races. While they fin­ished within 12 seconds of the winner in each race, the varsity eight did not secure a win. The second varsity eight lost in their morning race to USC, but bounced back with a win in their afternoon race against Stanford. 
Irish junior Abby Meyers said the races were a big test for the Irish as their season winds to an end. 
“I think it was a really good opportunity to race really fast teams,” Meyers said. “USC is ranked fifth and Stanford is ranked 12th nationally. So to be able pull out wins and keep up with teams like that is re­ally important.” 
With the Irish coming close in each of their races, it is a good sign for their progress looking forward. 
“It’s a huge deal, because to a lot of people, we might seem slower than other teams,” Meyers said. “But these races proved that we’re something to watch out for.” 
Meyers thinks this will provide confidence and momentum going into the Big East Invitational. 
“These races proved that we can hold our own against top teams,” Meyers said. “I think knowing that, we can do well in the Big East.” 
The Irish finish their regular season in the Big East Invita­tional this upcoming weekend in Indianapolis. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu 


Monday, April 23, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 

No-hitter 
continued from page 16 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said the key to scoring runs off DePaul sophomore pitcher Kirsten Ver­dun, who, like Winter, started all three games, was scoring early and giving the middle of the or­der chances to drive in runs. 
“In all three games, we scored in the first three innings,” Gumpf said. “I think that our top of the lineup did a great job of setting the table for us. [Junior rightfielder] Kelsey [Thornton] and [senior centerfielder Alexa Maldonado] started us off, and then Amy Buntin came up big three times in three games. So I think the top of the lineup did a great job of really setting the table to be able to give us oppor­tunities to score.” 
O’Donnell ran into trouble in the fifth, as the Blue Demons (26-17, 8-6) scored three runs of their own, forcing Winter back into the game. Winter got out of trouble, finishing the game without allowing another run. 
The Irish scored what proved to be the winning run in the bottom of the sixth when Mal­donado scored on a wild pitch to give Notre Dame a 4-3 lead. 
In Sunday’s series finale, the Irish offense came out aggres­sively, scoring twice in the first inning to take a 2-0 lead. 
“The reason why we were very successful [Sunday] was because we scored early, and our pitching staff kept us in the ballgame every single inning,” Gumpf said. 
Winter kept the Irish in the game, as she breezed through the first three in­nings, before allowing run­ners to reach first and third in the fourth. With one out, DePaul senior rightfielder Katelyn Braget hit a high chopper over the head of freshman third baseman Katey Haus to plate a run and make it a 2-1 game. 
Winter managed to get out of the jam, but the Blue De­mons were back threaten­ing in the sixth inning with runners on first and second and one out. However, Win­ter forced junior outfielder Samantha Dodd to line out to Irish freshman second base­man Jenna Simon, who fired the ball to Miller at first to complete the double play. 
Winter then cruised through the seventh inning, securing the win. 
“These wins were huge nationally, regionally and in the Big East conference,” Gumpf said. “It just puts us in a really good position to take a spot away from De-Paul [in the Big East] and take it ourselves. DePaul is a really good ball club, and they are going to be in the regional tournament. They are the type of team we are going to be playing in the postseason, so this is exactly what we wanted to do.” 
The Irish look to make it six wins in a row Tuesday at 6 p.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium when they take on Michigan State. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Powell scores winner in OT 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
With No. 6 Notre Dame and No. 12 Georgetown both aver­aging more than 14 goals per game, most would have expect­ed Saturday’s battle between the Big East foes to be a high-powered offensive shootout. 
Instead, fans at Multi-Sport Stadium in Washington were treated to 66 minutes of a de­fensive showdown, culminat­ing in a sudden-death goal by Notre Dame sophomore attack Lindsay Powell to give the Irish (12-2, 5-2 Big East) a 7-6 victo­ry over the Hoyas (8-6, 4-3 Big East). 
With double overtime wind­ing down, Powell took a long outlet pass from senior defender Megan Sullivan after Sullivan forced a turnover near the Irish goal. Rushing 30 yards upfield, Powell buried a shot past sopho­more goalie Barb Black with 39 seconds on the clock, sending the Irish home with a win. 
“There was no set play,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said of Powell’s goal. “Our defense got a massive [stop] when they were trying to run a play and pushed the fast break ultimately into Lindsay Powell’s hands. At least three, if not four, of our goals were fast breaks, so our transition game did a great job capturing some momentum, and ultimately helped us win the game.” 
In addition to the transition game, Notre Dame’s defense came out in full force, as ju­nior goalie Ellie Hilling tied a career-high with 16 saves, and the Irish forced 16 turnovers en route to holding Georgetown to its lowest offensive output of the season. 
“I thought our [one versus one] defense was outstanding today,” Halfpenny said. “Our discipline, our ability to stick to the gameplan and our ability to play team defense and dictate were huge. At the end of the day, our girls played with conviction when they were aggressive, and they were able to come up with some great turnovers because they played on their instincts at times.” 
The Irish offense struggled to convert opportunities early, to­taling just two goals in the first half. After Sullivan scored the team’s first goal at the 25:54 mark, Notre Dame would not find the goal until junior attack Jaimie Morrison’s tally with 
5:13 remaining. Despite the low offensive output, the Irish went into halftime tied, as the defense limited the Hoyas to two goals. 
“We were taking looks that they gave us and not necessarily working for the ones we wanted to at the beginning of the game,” Halfpenny said. “We did have some wide-open looks, and we were just uncharacteristically failing by putting some of our shots over the goal. At halftime, we made some adjustments where we really wanted to play Notre Dame lacrosse.” 
Notre Dame found itself in trouble early in the second half, as Georgetown scored two goals in less than 90 seconds to take a 4-2 lead. The Irish responded with a scoring burst of their own, as senior attack Maggie Tamasitis found the goal with 
18:44 left and freshman mid­fielder Caitlin Gargan tied the game just 12 seconds later. 
The remainder of the half proved to be a back-and-forth struggle, with both teams trading goals. Georgetown sophomore midfielder Hannah Franklin gave the Hoyas the lead with 8:35 re­maining, but Irish sophomore at­tack Lauren Sullivan knotted the game at five, converting on a pass from Tamasitis. 
Sophomore midfielder Kaitlyn Brosco gave the Irish the lead with a goal at the 3:44 mark, but Georgetown junior attack Rosie Corcoran provided the equaliz­ing score with 2:54 remaining, forcing the game into overtime. 
With the victory, the Irish move into sole possession of third place in the Big East. 
Notre Dame will now look toward its most difficult chal­lenge of the season on Wednes­day, when it travels to Evanston, Ill., to face No. 1 Northwestern, a perennial power in women’s lacrosse. Halfpenny said a ma­jor key to the game will be the Irish defense, especially as they battle Northwestern senior at­tack Shannon Smith, the reign­ing Tewaaraton Award winner. 
“I think the keys are going to be certainly containing their of­fense, limiting Shannon Smith, and then, as we take care of that, we’re going to have to run with Northwestern, handle their pressure, and play our game,” Halfpenny said. “We’re very ex­cited about this challenge, and we think it comes at a very im­portant time in the season right now.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
Rogers 
continued from page 16 
good to be down, but if you think about it from a defen­sive standpoint, we have con­fidence just because we have [come back] before,” junior goalie John Kemp said. “Our offense has really picked it up as the season has progressed, and at halftime, we realized we were getting what we wanted in terms of shots and opportu­nities. We just weren’t really cashing in.” 
Right on cue, the Irish came out of the locker room with two quick goals from Rogers and senior midfielder Max Pfeifer to tie the game at four with 
13:47 remaining in the third. Four minutes later, Rogers gave Notre Dame its first lead of the evening, as he completed his hat trick. 
Goals from freshman mid­fielder Will Corrigan and junior midfielders Pat Cotter and Ryan Foley extended the lead to 8-4 before Villanova senior mid­fielder C.J. Small broke a 39:13 scoreless draught, scoring with just under 11 minutes remain­ing. 
The Irish responded just 26 seconds later when junior mid­fielder Tyler Kimball sent home a shot to bring the lead back to four. 
The Wildcats scored two goals to make it 9-7 with 9:18 left to play, but Kemp and the rest of the defense shut out Villanova for the remainder of the game. 
Kemp said the improved de­fensive performance was simply a result of the defense regain­ing its composure. 
“I think we just got settled down,” Kemp said. “We had a couple mishaps on the slides and communication in the first quarter, but we settled down. It was a big away game with a big crowd, but that’s not an excuse. We just settled down, to be hon­est.” 

Sophomore attack Westy Hop­kins put the finishing touches on the win with his 10th goal of the season with about 90 sec­onds left. 
The win was the fifth against ranked opponents this season for the Irish, some­thing that will prove help­ful in future matchups with ranked opponents, both in the regular season and beyond, Rogers said. 
“It definitely helps us playing teams like Duke, Denver, Villa-nova and Georgetown, because you get used to these tough battles where you really have to step up at the end of the game,” Rogers said. “It will really pay dividends in the playoffs, be­cause our team has confidence down the stretch.” 
The Irish will look for that confidence to pay off when they try to run their winning streak to 10 games in a matchup against No. 14 Syracuse on Sat­urday at 5 p.m. at Arlotta Stadi­um. The game will be broadcast on ESPNU. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Monday, April 23, 2012 
Serious 
continued from page 16 
whole. In fact, it is the only time we, and Irish coach Brian Kelly, will see this type of extended action until Sept. 1 in Dublin. 
So, yeah, I would take this a little bit more seriously than most are. 
Most saw what they expected from Tommy Rees, Manti Te’o and Cierre Wood. But I want to draw attention to what we didn’t expect: those pleasant surprises who, after Saturday’s scrim­mage, have Irish fans thinking about what could be in this fast-approaching season. 
Biggest surprise: Golson 
If people told you they weren’t surprised by how well Everett Golson played, they are prob­ably lying (or, are Golson him­self). The dual-threat quarter­back surprised us all with his arm strength, his tenacity and, most importantly, Notre Dame’s success this season. These four could take the brunt of the pressure off “Quarterback Quad” and make defenses account for a remarkably balanced offense. It is about time to spread the love to the running backs in Kelly’s spread offense. 
Unexpected surprise: Lo Wood 
The secret is out on the Irish defense already: Attack the secondary. And with USC’s Matt Barkley and Oklahoma’s Landry Jones on the 2012 menu, things could get scary. The success of the secondary is intertwined with the amount of pressure the front seven can put on opposing quarterbacks. But it doesn’t hurt to have a surefire, diligent tackler with solid fundamentals. 
We saw a glimpse of that with Lo Wood. 
The cornerback recorded six tackles in the first half 
alone, and was 
aggressive at 
the point of at-


his poise. tack. Coverage­
“If people told 
Golson led his wise, he was 
you they weren’t 
squad to points solid, but even on every posses-surprised by Kelly has said sion except the how well Golson he doesn’t need first. He topped played, they are Wood to be a all quarterbacks probably lying.” lockdown cor­
with 120 yards and two touch­downs on 11-for­15 passing. The rising sophomore was also the only Irish quarterback without a turnover. 
The biggest hit on Golson is his size, or lack thereof. But the six-foot quarterback took hits with the best of them — includ­ing a punishing “Welcome-to­the-show” late hit by Te’o — and also knew when to drop his shoulder and push for the first down. 
But it was the young gunsling­er’s patience to let plays develop that impressed. 
And this just in — Golson can throw. He was extremely ac­curate on short passes, while throwing one touchdown pass from the pocket and the other on a bootleg right. Meanwhile, his mid-to-long-range passes were so tight on a line (like his 31­yard zinger to Tyler Eifert) that the path could have been the wire for NBC’s Skycam. Without a doubt, you could “NBCee-it,” with “it” being his potential for greatness. 
Pleasant Surprise: George Atkinson 
Sure, Atkinson had more car­ries than all the other running backs combined, but he was known for only one thing last year: returning kicks for touch­downs. It’s not a bad trade, but not too many could have seen Atkinson rushing for 124 yards against a terrifying front seven. But the best part of his stat line was his 8.3 yards per carry. 
The highlight of the day for the rising sophomore was a dominating, “put-the-team-on­my-back” 30-yard run in the second quarter. The lineback­ing corps met Atkinson in the backfield, but No. 4 wouldn’t let it stop him, juking, spinning and turning on the afterburn­ers, while breaking tackles with ease. The two fumbles didn’t help, but what people will re­member most is how well he ran. 
We know how good Cierre Wood will be this year, we saw how good Theo Riddick will be and we heard how good USC-transfer Amir Carlisle will be. But now you add Atkinson to the mix, and this rushing at­tack could be a major key to ner. He just 
needs to be 
consistent in 
coverage and 
continue to be 
aggressive with the ball carrier. 
Honorable Mention 
Ishaq Williams, Anthony Rabasa and DeVaris Daniels could easily be crucial role players this season and did enough to show that Saturday. Williams recovered a fumble and snagged an interception, Rabasa was all over the field and Daniels showed brief pre­views of his amazing athleti­cism. 
With these surprises, it looks like this season’s harvest could be quite fruitful. That is, unless I took this game too se­riously. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
Blue-Gold 
continued from page 16 
my Rees and Andrew Hendrix, soph­omore Everett Golson and freshman Gunner Kiel. Kelly said each of the quarterbacks showed both progress and areas for growth. 
“I think there were strides made, but clearly we’re not there yet,” Kelly said. “We’ve got a lot of work to do with all the quarterbacks to get them to the level that we want — and we have a high bar set for them.” 
Rees completed 7-of-14 passes for 84 yards and one interception, strug­gling to find his accuracy at times. However, the returning starter ex­pressed confidence in how his spring went overall. 
“There is obviously one ball [I’d like to get] back, but other than that, I feel like things went all right,” Rees said. “Obviously that interception put a damper on things. But I’m happy with how spring ended.” 
Golson had the closest thing to a breakout performance, completing 11-of-15 passes for 120 yards and two touchdowns while losing one fumble. Despite his game-best stat line, Gol­son was not satisfied with his game. 
“Coach Kelly has made it appar­ent to me that I have developed the art of [the quarterback position], but the science is still something I have to work on,” he said. “If I had to assess the day I would say it was average. I made some good plays, but there are still some things that I have to clean up.” 
Hendrix completed 4-of-9 passes for 51 yards while throwing one touchdown and an interception. Hendrix was unhappy with the mis­take that led to his interception. 
“I started off strong, obviously threw an interception, which is not what you want,” he said. “The thing about this spring versus any other time is that I know better (than to make mistakes). I knew what I should be doing and it’s just attention to detail at this point.” 
Kiel saw no action in the first quarter but took every snap under center in the second half, which was shortened to two eight-minute quarters with a running clock. Kiel completed five of his 10 passes for 57 yards and one interception but was hampered by his limited knowledge of the playbook, Kelly said. 
“We can’t run everything with Gunner at this point. He just doesn’t have the knowledge base,” Kelly said. “So from that standpoint, we gave him all the reps in the second half, and got him an opportunity to really feel like he was part of the game.” 
Kelly said the eventual starter would emerge during summer workouts and fall practice. 
“Now this summer, they’ve got to help themselves,” he said. “The guy that really commits to the details this summer is probably one of the guys that’s going to start it.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Home run 
continued from page 16 
brought freshman right-hander Pat Connaughton to the mound Saturday after­noon.  Connaughton threw six scoreless innings in his longest outing of the season. 
“I thought Pat did pretty well, and all in all, I think he was a lot better yesterday than against Cincinnati last time out,” Aoki said. “He was working ahead in the count a little bit more, and the tempo of the game lent itself to us a little bit better because we weren’t behind in counts and instead we were working ad­vantages. A couple three-run innings for us and then hav­ing a guy on the mound that the team had confidence in was huge.” 
Aoki said Connaughton, who is also on the basketball team, continues to get better as the season goes on, as he has the opportunity to focus on the diamond rather than the hardwood. 
“He has to do a better job of closing some of the times when he had a two-strike count, but as a whole I think he has been improving and continuing to get better,” Aoki said. 
The Irish pounded the ball Saturday and won 14-4 to close out the series.  In­specting the series against the Hoyas as a whole, Aoki said the three-game set gave a crucial boost to the team’s confidence about playing on the road. 
“I think that game was a big deal because of our struggles winning away from home,” Aoki said. “After the first game, Eric Jagielo con­tinued to swing the bat real­ly well, along with the other guys.” 
The Irish now stand in fifth place in the Big East stand­ings, two games behind first-place Connecticut, which has a league record of 11-4. 
The Irish will face Central Michigan this Wednesday, with first pitch at 5:35 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium, where Notre Dame is 8-2 this sea­son. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 


Monday, April 23, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
EUgENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE 




KELLy LyNCH and JOE MILER 
HENRy ARNOLD 
CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARgIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, April 23, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
FOOTBALL 

A sneak peek 
Quarterback spot still up for grabs 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Editor-in-Chief 
It was just an intrasquad scrimmage, but that didn’t stop Irish coach Brian Kelly from en­joying Saturday’s 42-31 Gold win in the Blue-Gold Game. 
“There was a nice feel around campus today,” he said. “For all of our players, you could sense an excitement around campus … Our guys got the opportunity to play before a nice crowd today, and I think it really excited them getting out there and seeing the support that we had out there.” 
Most of the eyes in that crowd were focused on the four quarterbacks who saw playing time in pursuit of the starting position — juniors Tom-
see BLUE-GOLD/page 14 


A serious look at the Blue-Gold game 
They say not to take the Blue-Gold game seriously. But I say: Why not? 
We still saw guys compete for their spots. It was a starting offense — minus a set quarterback 
— and a starting de­fense play­ing against each other. This was two hours of live-game ac­tion, with the starting units working as a 
see SERIOUS/page 14 


BASEBALL 

Home runs spark road sweep against Georgetown 
By BRENDAN BELL nant 14-4 victory Saturday af-had thoroughly dominated pair of solo shots, sparking the our performances were a little Sports Writer ternoon. that game and we still found Irish to a 7-4 win. bit up and down afterwards,” The big swing of the series ourselves tied,” Aoki said. “So “Trey came back and gutted Aoki said. “Since he got back, Notre Dame broke away was Friday afternoon, when when he hit that home run, it out after he got banged up it adds a lot to our lineup and from the middle of the Big sophomore third baseman and with the way we had been last week,” Aoki said. “He was he puts people back into their East pack in fashion, sweeping Eric Jagielo came up in the pitching, it really helped us able to play and get some good comfort zone. There is not as rival Georgetown in a three-top of the ninth with the score for the rest of the game and swings on the ball.” much of a sense of urgency, game series over the weekend knotted 2-2.  Jagielo popped series.” Mancini’s performance goes because when our lineup is all in Washington. a three-run go-ahead home Two-home-run games were beyond the numbers, though, together, there is a feeling we 
The Irish (22-16, 9-6 Big run that gave the Irish a com-the trend for the Irish this as Aoki said his return has re-can get back in games easier.” East) defeated the Hoyas (18-manding 5-2 lead. The homer weekend, as sophomore first stored a sense of confidence in After a pair of victories in 21, 5-10) 5-2 and 7-4 in a pair was his second of the game. baseman Trey Mancini came the dugout. the doubleheader, the Irish of games on Friday, following “It was a really big home back in the second game of the “When Trey got hurt at the the doubleheader with a domi-run, because I thought we doubleheader and delivered a end of the Seton Hall weekend, see HOME RUN/page 14 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish survive early deficit against Nova 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Maybe this team should try to give up first-half goals. 
A week after overcoming a 5-1 halftime deficit to beat George­town, the No. 4 Irish scored eight unanswered goals after being down 4-0 during the first quarter, and never looked back en route to a 10-7 victory over No. 11 Villanova on Saturday at Villanova Stadium. 
The familiarity of the situa­tion helped Notre Dame settle down and make a comeback after allowing the four early goals, senior attack Sean Rog­ers said. 

“I wasn’t surprised at all [when we got down],” Rog­ers said. “We had been in that The Wildcats (8-5, 4-1) opened situation multiple times before up a quick 4-0 lead just more against St. John’s and George-than 10 minutes into the game, town … So we were really pretty with goals from four different relaxed and not worried at all.” players. With 4:18 remaining in 
Notre Dame (10-1, 5-0 Big the opening quarter, freshman East) won its ninth-consecutive attack Conor Doyle began the game, and clinched the top seed Irish comeback with his eighth in next month’s Big East cham-goal of the season. pionship along the way. Rogers then scored the first of his three goals with 8:57 to play in the first half to make it a 4-2 game. The score re­mained that way at the half­way point. Going into the game, the Irish were 3-0 when trailing at halftime. 

“I mean obviously, it’s not 
see ROGERS/page 13 
ND SOFTBALL 
Winter throws second no-hitter of career 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Three games. Three wins. Two days. One winning pitch­er. One no-hitter. 
Sophomore pitcher Lau­ra Winter started all three games for the Irish in their series against DePaul, which started with Winter earning her second career no-hitter in a 3-0 win Saturday. The no-hitter was the first-ever at Melissa Cook Stadium, which opened in 2008. 
The right-hander from San Diego — who also tossed a no-hitter against South Florida as a freshman — retired the first 13 batters she faced before walk­ing DePaul senior outfielder Katelyn Braget in the fifth in­ning, losing the perfect game. 
Despite the historic perfor­mance, Winter said she was unaware of the situation until after the game. 
“I really didn’t notice it un­til [senior first baseman] Dani [Miller] comes in,” Winter said. 
“She is always the first one to notice it. I remember at USF last year she came running in, she’s screaming and I’m like ‘We won, yeah!’ but she’s like, ‘No, you had a no-hitter!’ It was the same way [Saturday]. I had no idea until she came running in and jumping in, and then I was really excited.” 
Winter was back in the circle for the second game of Satur­day’s doubleheader, turning in four more shutout innings before junior pitcher Brittany O’Donnell replaced her. 
Notre Dame (26-13, 8-3 Big East) broke a scoreless tie in the bottom of the fourth, when ju­nior catcher Amy Buntin ripped an RBI single and Miller blasted a two-run home run to give the Irish a 3-0 lead. 
see NO-HITTER/page 13 





