
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Professor emeritus dies at 79 
Observer Staff Report 
Nai-Chien Huang, profes­sor emeritus of aerospace and mechanical engineer­ing at the University of Notre Dame, died Sunday at his home in Los Altos, Calif., af­ter a long illness. He was 79 years old. 
Huang joined Notre Dame’s faculty in 1983, according to a University press release. Prior to joining Notre Dame’s staff, he served on the facul­ties of the University of Cali­fornia at San Diego, Stanford University, the Massachu­setts Institute of Technology and the University of Wis­consin. He retired in 2001. 
A native of Nantong, China, Huang studied engineering at the National Taiwan Uni­versity in Taipei, graduating in 1953. He earned his mas­ter’s degree from Brown Uni­versity in 1958 and his doc­toral degree from Harvard in 1963. 

see HUANG/page 5 


Campus Housing changes structure 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 

Off-campus students rent­ing property from Campus Housing at South Bend may have noticed a change in how their apartments or houses are managed. 
The rental company termi­nated its relationship with property management com­pany Campus Apartments in November 2011, according to managing member and majority owner Pat Kulisek. The properties include Notre Dame Apartments and sever­al homes near campus. 
“We’re no longer employ­ing a management company,” Kulisek said. “We are now self-managing the properties 
— we’re now involved on a personal level.” 
The transition became offi­cial the first week of Novem­ber 2011, Kulisek said. The management partnership with Campus Apartments began April 2010, accord­ing to an Observer article published at the time. The properties were initially pur­chased from Kramer Proper­ties in February 2008. 
“We made the decision to terminate our relationship with Campus Apartments be­cause of dissatisfaction with previous management com­panies,” Kulisek said. “I felt our properties were under-performing and not meeting standards of our tenants and prospective tenants. I felt we could do a better job.” 
Kulisek cited his role as a father as inspiration for this change in management. 
“As a parent, I wouldn’t want this,” he said. “We found work orders unfilled. I would not have accepted this performance from a landlord for my own chil­dren.” 
Students living off-cam­pus should be mindful of tenant-landlord relation­ships, according to offcam­pus.nd.edu, the off-campus student website provided by the student government’s Division of Student Affairs. 
“Tenants entering into any rental agreement should make a concerted effort to learn about their legal re­sponsibilities and become familiar with the protection granted to them under the law,” the website states. 
With regard to mainte­nance and repairs, the web­site advises tenants to keep clear records. 


see HOUSING/page 3 

MCOB continues dean search 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Dr. Roger Huang, interim dean of the Mendoza College of Business, said a focus on ethics is the College’s “DNA,” funda­mental both to its academics and ad­ministra­tion. 
As Notre Dame con­tinues the search to repl ace former Dean Car­olyn Woo, who left the Uni­versity Jan. 1, Huang said this commitment to ethics is one crucial quality looked for in a candidate. 
“Our calling card is ‘Ask More of Business.’ We need someone who understands that,” he said. 
Huang, the Kenneth R. Meyer Professor of Global Investment Management, is currently serving as Inter-im Dean while the Univer­sity looks for a permanent successor. Previously Men­doza’s Associate Dean, he was notified of his appoint­ment shortly after Woo an­nounced her departure last June. 


After 14 years as Dean of the business school, Woo left Notre Dame to serve as president and chief execu­tive officer of Catholic Relief Services. 
Huang said it’s still uncer­tain as to when the Univer­sity will announce the new dean. 
“It’s difficult to tell … I don’t know what the time frame is,” he said. “I’m not involved in the search pro­cess. The Provost chaired the search committee, and the members of [that] com­mittee [were] chosen by the College Council. We have done that, passed that stage. I believe they are now in the process of picking people to interview.” 
As Interim Dean, Huang said he is responsible for all aspects of the College, from daily matters to strategic planning. He said he worked with Woo for a long time, was involved in everything she handled and is aware of the pending issues. 
He said his short-term position, however, presents some challenges. 
“There are some issues you’re not quite sure wheth­er you should leave to the next dean or not,” he said. “I will ask for guidance from the Provost … if there are strategies involved which may be very long-term in nature. If we restructure an operation here, for example, by abolishing a program or something like that, it’s best to [consult] with someone who’s going to be here per­manently.” 
Huang said on a general level, Mendoza will need a leader who knows aca­demia as well as the busi­ness world, someone who is able to navigate both arenas easily. 
“There are many dimen­


see DEAN/page 4 

ELISA DeCASTRO I The Observer 
Garcia returns to Notre Dame following fall 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
Senior Marcus Garcia, who fell from his third-floor apart­ment window in the early morning hours of August 25, 2011, re­turned to campus over the weekend and began classes with the rest of the student body Tues­day. 
Garcia said he is ready to challenge himself academical­ly after a four-month hiatus at his home in Turlock, Calif. 
“It has been weird to come back after so long,” he said. “It is a little nerve-wracking.” 
Garcia said it was difficult to be away from campus during his senior year. 

“The hardest thing for me was, as a senior, missing the last football season,” Garcia said. “I missed out on a lot of ‘lasts.’ Everyone else’s lives go on, but I was still stuck at home.” 
The 21-year-old spent two weeks at Memorial Hospital in South Bend after the incident. His parents flew to South Bend to be with him during the ini­tial surgeries. He returned home via train immediately following his hospital stay. 
“The doctors said my par­ents and I had to ride an Am­trak train back to California because of damage done to my ear canals,” Garcia said. “A lot of my doctor appointments were at Stanford University.” 
Although he said his health currently stands at 80 per­cent, Garcia said he feels great and is optimistic about his progress. 
“I still have to get some more 
see GARCIA/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Professor write book on homelessness page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Weekend events calendar page 9 u Women’s basketball scores big page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Thursday, January 19, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE LAST SONG YOU LISTENED TO? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sam Stryker Andrew Gastelum Kristen Durbin Sam Gans Tori Roeck Walker Carey Graphics Scene Elisa De Castro Alexandra Photo Kilpatrick Mackenzie Sain Viewpoint Caroline Lang  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 27 LOW 19 


Charlie Bowen  Eric Bens  Erich Kerekes  Michelle Lundholm  Mari Kelly  Mike Della Penna  
junior  junior  freshman  junior  freshman  senior  
off-campus  Siegfried  Morrissey  Welsh Family  Walsh  off-campus  
“‘Wolf Like Me’  “‘Sweet Home  “‘My Way’ by  “‘God Gave Me  “‘Rude Boy’ by  “‘Thousand  
by TV On The  Alabama’  Frank Sinatra.”  You’ by Blake  Rihanna.”  Ships’ by Rachel  
Radio.”  by Lynyrd  Shelton.”  Platten.”  
Skynyrd.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Pa. Robbery Suspect Used Infection Threat 
SHARON, Pa. – Police say a man tried to rob a western Pennsylva­nia gambling parlor by threatening to spread a staph infection.     
     Online court records don’t list an attorney for 41-year-old Fred Parker, of Coolspring Township. 
Police say he walked into Lucky’s Internet Cafe in Sharon on Monday night and began touch­ing the walls and gam­bling machines, claiming he has MRSA – a serious staph infection that re­sists antibiotics. 
Sharon police Chief Mike Menster says Parker then threatened to infect the cashier if he didn’t give Parker money. The chief tells The Herald newspaper of Sharon, “It’s our first case of rob­bery by threat of an infec­tious disease.” 
Police say Parker left when the cashier refused, but was arrested a short time later based on his description. 
Parker remained in jail Wednesday. 
Oppossum takes ride on NYC Subway 
NEW YORK – A suspi­cious passenger of the four-legged variety led to the evacuation of a New York City subway car. 
Startled riders aboard a Manhattan-bound train spotted an opossum curled up underneath a seat near the train’s heat­ing duct around 4:30 a.m. on Friday. 
The New York Times re­ports the animal appar­ently boarded the train at Coney Island in Brook­lyn, where the platform is above ground. The subway car was evacuated several stops later in Manhattan as officers tried to remove it. When the marsupial bared its teeth at them, animal control experts were called in. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Fitness class registration   begins this morning at 7 
a.m. Log in to RecRegister to sign up. 
Patience Kabamba will give a lecture titled, “New Forms of Life from the Debris of the State in the Democratic Republic of the Congo” today from 4 to 5:30 
p.m. in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center for Inter­national Studies. 
The 2012 Notre Dame Stu­dent Film Festival will take place at 6:30 p.m. tonight in the Debartolo Perform­ing Arts Center. The festi­val will screen films made by undergraduate students during the past year as class projects. 
The Complexions Con­temporary Ballet will per­form tonight at 7:00 p.m. in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Student Activites Of­fice will sponsor a Laugh Out Loud Comedy Improv Show tonight at 9:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Doors open at 8:30 p.m. 
Iron Sharpens Iron Inter­denominational Ministry will meet tonight and ev­ery Thursday hereafter at 10 p.m. in Room 329 of the Coleman-Morse Center. ISI welcomes anyone on cam­pus seeking sincere Chris­tian fellowship to gather and sharpen their faith through weekly small-group Bible studies and praise services, sports, schedules retreats and concerts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 









HIGH 20 LOW 19 
HIGH 25 LOW 22 
HIGH 39 LOW 29 
HIGH 41 LOW 34 

Thursday, January 19, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

Professor publishes book on the homeless 


By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Whenever a serious crime is committed, members of the surrounding community are plagued by burning questions regarding who is re­sponsible, why the in­cident oc­curred and how it could have been prevented. 
In his new book “Home­less Come Home: An Advocate, the River­bank, and Murder in Topeka, Kansas,” professor Benedict Giamo examined these com­plex questions in the context of the story of David Owen, an advocate for the homeless who was brutally murdered in 2006 by members of the community he aimed to help. 
Giamo has studied home­lessness since the 1970s, but he was drawn to Owen’s story by the blurred line between victim and perpetrator. 
“Most of the time, the home­less are the victims, and in this case they were the per­petrators,” he said. “But the victim also had a hand in his own death.” 
Giamo’s interest in Owen’s murder also stemmed from the interesting relationships between the story’s broad is­sues and diverse characters, he said. 
“[The book] is about home­lessness, it is about social justice and it is about dis­ability,” Giamo said. “It rais­es these broader issues and tries to do it in an engaging manner through creative nonfiction to give an account as truthful to the crime, to the setting and to the charac­ters as can be.” 
In researching and writ­ing his book, Giamo wanted to find out why someone who had professed his life to help-ing the homeless would reach his demise at their hands. 

Giamo said Owen was a fas­cinating yet polarizing char­acter in his desire to reunite the homeless with their fami­lies through somewhat ques­tionable tactics. 
“Owen wanted them [the homeless] to call their fami­lies and reconnect, but he would get in their faces and be aggressive,” he said. “If the homeless resisted, he would even go so far as to trash their encampments.” 
An encounter between Owen and four residents of a homeless encampment ulti­mately led to his death. Owen was speaking to the group in hopes of encouraging them to reconnect with their families, but the conversation eventu­ally took on a negative tone, Giamo said. 
“When Owen would trash homeless encampments, he would photograph the before and after,” Giamo said. “On that particular day, he had those pictures in his satchel and they [the homeless per­petrators] found the pictures and burned them.” 
Owen was brutally beaten and lynched, and his body was found several weeks lat­er, Giamo said. Four homeless individuals were eventually convicted of felony murder and kidnapping in the wake of Owen’s death. 
Members of the Topeka community characterized Owen for his difficult person­ality during their interviews with Giamo, he said, but the city’s residents also recog­nized Owen’s passion for and dedication to advocacy for the homeless. 
“He was extremely commit­ted to the point that he gave his life, but that was always followed by a sense of fanati­cism,” Giamo said. 
“Homeless Come Home” is available for purchase through the University of Notre Dame Press. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari1@saintmarys.edu 
Housing 
continued from page 1 
“Always notify the landlord about any problems in per­son or over the telephone,” the website states. “Follow that first notification with a signed, dated letter noting the problems that you stated in your conversation. Putting the situation in writing will not only look business-like, but will also establish a re­cord if there are problems later.” 
After the relationship with Campus Apartments was terminated, improvements began immediately, Kulisek said. 
“The biggest improvement made is for the services for our existing tenants, includ­ing maintenance and up­grades,” he said. 
The company changed its website as well. It now op­erates from www.campush­ousingSB.com instead of the Campus Apartments address. 
“Some people have had a hard time getting a hold of us [since the change],” Kulisek said. “We’re trying to make our place more tenant-friend­ly. Our website will contain links for other recommended businesses, and we are doing more promotions and spon­soring.” 
Sponsoring includes every­thing from t-shirts for Late Night Olympics to other proj­ects involving tenants. 
“We want to touch base with what our tenants are involved in,” he said. “If they have something they want us to sponsor, we want to know what it is.” 
Other changes include a completely new office staff, Kulisek said. 
“We’re willing to work with tenants on every property. We’re really willing to listen to tenants and we’re more flexible and open,” Kulisek said. “When people stop in and talk to us, they will see we’re different.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Thursday, January 19, 2012 
SMC playwright wins regional competition 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
While most students spent their winter break relaxing and recovering from the stress of fi­nals, Saint Mary’s senior Emily Schmitt received some surpris­ing news that made her break more interesting than usual. 
In December, Schmitt won the Kennedy Center Ameri­can College Theater Festival’s (KCACTF) Region III full-length playwriting competition for her play “San Luis, 1989.” The play was read at the Region III fes­tival, held at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign January 3-7. 
“My play, ‘San Luis, 1989’ is an example of staged journal­ism,” Schmitt said. “This means that it is based on a true story that I conducted extensive re­search on.” 
Her play addresses issues of racial bias and government corruption in regards to poach­ing in San Luis, Colo., in 1989. Schmitt first learned about the story of San Luis through Su­san Baxter, professor of theatre and journalism at Saint Mary’s. Schmitt and Baxter were paired together through a Saint Mary’s Student Independent Study, Teaching and Research (SIS­TAR) grant project, a program that provides funding for teams of students and professors to conduct research. 
Schmitt and Baxter collabo­rated intensely in their re­search of San Luis, making two trips to Colorado and discussing ways to bring real life events to a stage. 
“I am working on a book which teaches playwrights to use journalism theory; Emily is my case study,” Baxter said. “We could not be more grateful to Saint Mary’s. If not for SIS­TAR, the play would not have happened.” 
Baxter said the selective honor has gone to a graduate student in an MFA playwriting program for the past 10 years. 
Despite the success of the play thus far, Schmitt said she en­countered challenges through­out the process that sometimes made it difficult to persevere. 
“The biggest challenge for me 
Dean 
continued from page 1 
sions to being a dean, and you’re not going to find some­one good in all dimensions. [We need] someone who’s very open-minded, able to learn and willing to learn … a person who can influence outcomes, think strategical­ly, effect change [and] is mo­tivational,” he said. 
But Huang said Notre Dame’s faith-based values make the recruiting process even more complex. 
“We are also a Catholic in­stitution, and, therefore, we need someone who can par­lay that experience of being both in academia and the business school for doing good, who can translate that and do good for the world,” he said. 
Huang said it’s essential for a dean to not only under­writing this play was simply not getting discouraged,” she said. Writing a play is a very lonely process, and after the fifth or sixth draft, you start to feel like it’s never going to work.  I call that the ‘dark place’ of the writ­ing process.” 
But Schmitt said pushing past the isolation and struggles strengthened her skills as a playwright. 
“After [the ‘dark place’], something always gives way and the words start flowing out,” she said. “That is the best part of writing for me.” 
Baxter agreed that in spite of the obstacles Schmitt met, she was still able to develop as a writer and learn throughout the writing process. 
“Emily is a self-starter, so I did not have to work very hard at all,” she said. “She jumped in and tried every technique I threw at her.  Not all was useful, of course, but both of us learned mightily from the process.” 
Schmitt applied to several schools to earn her MFA in play­writing but will not be informed of acceptances until late Febru­ary. In the meantime, her work with “San Luis, 1989” is not fin­ished, as the play is currently in consideration for two national playwriting awards. 
“My play is currently com­peting with the other regional winners for the [Michael Kanin] National Student Playwriting Award,” she said.  “I am also up for the National Partners for the American Theater Playwriting Award, which is granted to a new and original voice in play­writing.” 
Regardless of the outcome of these awards, Schmitt said she is pleased with how things have turned out so far. She said she hopes more people will become better informed about the is­sues surrounding San Luis ad­dressed in her play. 
“The best part about win­ning this award has really been spreading the word about what happened in San Luis,” she said. “Winning this award is a huge testament to the political power of the stage.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeeene01@saintmarys.edu 
stand Notre Dame’s mission but remain committed to it. 
“We’ve been doing busi­ness ethics, corporate re­sponsibility, we’ve been cov­ering that forever. After the 2008 economic crisis, sud­denly [universities began] touting that they’re doing business in the context of ‘business for good,’” he said. “We will always be focused on business ethics and cor­porate social responsibility issues. This is not fashion­able for us.” 
But he said a dean should also be able to lead the Col­lege into new phases of de­velopment. 
“Everything is dynamic,” Huang said. “It’s not only about being familiar with academia or the business world…it’s about having that strategic ability to be an en­trepreneur— in fact, part of the vanguard in effecting change.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
SENATE 


Group discusses ‘green’ gowns 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 

Student Senate discussed the option of an environmen­tally-friendly commencement gown and a potential human rights event series at its meet­ing Wednesday night. 
Interim University Registrar Chuck Hurley said Balfour, the University’s commencement gown vendor, now offers an en-vironmentally-friendly gown made of 23 plastic bottles. 
Students could purchase the new gowns for $45, which is approximately the same price as renting the current gowns for two days, Hurley said. The new gowns would not be avail­able for rent.  
“You can take [the new gowns] home with you to take pictures,” Hurley said. “If you want, after the ceremony, we’d have recycling bins that you can put them in. You also can put them in a recycling bin back home, and it would go right through and become plastic.” 
The Notre Dame emblem could be added to the black gowns, but Hurley said he does not recommend this option. 
“It’s an additional $6 charge if you add a crest to it,” he said. “I would like to not add the crest just because of that extra price.” 
Hurley said seven of the eight Ivy League schools currently use these “green” gowns. 
“It’s what most institutions have switched to or are switch­ing to right now,” Hurley said. 
For every gown sold, Hurley said Balfour would donate 25 cents to a University sustain-ability initiative. This would amount to approximately $600 to $700 per year. 

“If this is something you’re interested in, then I would take it forward with the University [Office of] Business Opera­tions,” Hurley said. 
Student body president Pat McCormick said collaboration between the Athletic Depart­ment and the student body is an ongoing conversation. 
“We might be exploring some combination of an advi­sory council to the Athletic De­partment and also striving to solidify relationships with stu­dent government in the halls so athletics can know how to engage [with students] more actively,” he said. 
McCormick said student gov­ernment is also engaged in an ongoing effort to host a human rights series at Notre Dame this spring. The event would have a Saint Patrick’s Day theme. 
“Our proposal would involve an internationally recognized event consultant who has done events of this type before, and our hope is that the University would find this proposal worth pursuing,” McCormick said. “This is part of the effort that we’re trying to advance this year in terms of this argument that students can serve as partners in the project of ad­vancing the Notre Dame mis­sion and that student govern­ment can work simultaneously on both issues of convenience and issues of consequence.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


Thursday, January 19, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Garcia 
continued from page 1 
mobility in my leg, as I have been using electric scooters to get around,” Garcia said. “I am about 20 degrees short in range of motion on my right side, but that will be improved with physical therapy.” 
His recovery will continue throughout the school year 
“I sat on my couch and watched TV the first few weeks,” Garcia said. “I was not very mobile, so I could not get out of the house as much as I would have liked.” 
After gaining increased mo­bility, he tried to resume nor­mal activities. 
“I went to the library in town to do some academic reading and visited with friends from home during the Christmas break,” Garcia said. “I also 
and beyond. 
“There are still some surgeries to be had this summer, like some tem­porary den­tures I have will be re­placed,” the psychology and sociol­ogy double major said. “I feel good though, and I am definitely 

went to the Notre Dame vs. Stanford “The number of letters football game 
and cards I received was in Palo Alto.” amazing. I get Facebook Garcia said messages from people I his doctors have never met, saying used one of I have been in their his ribs to thoughts and prayers. complete jaw That speaks a lot of the reconstruc ­
Notre Dame community.” tion surgery after Thanks­giving. 
Marcus Garcia 
“They took 

senior 
a rib from my body and re­constructed 
Huang 
continued from page 1 
In a written tribute, Joseph Powers, professor of aero­space and mechanical engi­neering, said his colleague epitomized the term of “a gentleman and a scholar.” 
“He was a great teacher, always impeccable in his presentation and with a conspicuous reverence for everything the Office of Stu­dent Affairs did for me, espe­cially Fr. Tom Doyle and Sr. Sue [Dunn],” Garcia said. “Fr. Jenkins contacted my parents to make sure everything was going well.” 
Garcia said his professors for the upcoming spring se­mester have been understand­ing of his situation as well. 
“They understand it might take a while for me to ease into an academic setting,” Garcia said. 
The student body has also supported Garcia throughout his recovery. 
“The number of letters and cards I received was amaz­ing,” Garcia said. “I get Face­book messages from people I have never met, saying I have been in their thoughts and prayers. That speaks a lot of the Notre Dame community.” 
Garcia said he is both ex­cited and nervous to begin classes but knows he has the support of faculty and fellow students. 
“I cannot stress enough how great the faculty and students have been,” Garcia said. “It is a great feeling to know you have support from so many people.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 
knowledge. He loved Notre Dame, its students and fac­ulty, and he was a great role model … including for me.” 
Huang is survived by his wife of 49 years, Geraldine, and their two children, Shei­la and Nathan. 
Romney opponents question his electability 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, S.C. — Mitt Romney’s Republican rivals are intensifying their efforts to erode if not eliminate his standing as the man most like­ly to defeat President Barack Obama this fall, often stressing their own prospects over his in the final few days before South Carolina’s potentially decisive weekend primary. 
The stepped-up challenge to Romney’s electability, in paid television advertising, cam­paign appearances and the first of two pre-primary de­bates, appears aimed at one of his principal strengths in the Iowa caucuses and New Hampshire primaries. Vot­ers in both contests said they prized a candidate’s ability to beat Obama over a candidate’s conservative credentials, a preference that helped the for­mer Massachusetts governor to his pair of victories. 
After spending days chal­lenging Romney’s record as a businessman, Newt Gingrich unveiled a television commer­cial on Tuesday that starts with an announcer saying only the former House speaker can defeat Obama. 
The ad makes no mention of Romney, instead showing Gin­grich drawing cheers from the audience at Monday’s debate in Myrtle Beach when he said, “More people have been put on food stamps by Barack Obama than any president American history.” 
Gingrich also drew sustained applause from businessmen and businesswomen after a speech late Tuesday that made only passing reference to Rom­ney, and none at all to his other rivals. Instead, he outlined his own proposals for lower taxes, less regulation and expanded domestic energy production. 
“I believe I am the only can­didate in this race who un­derstands the scale of change necessary to get this country working again,” Gingrich said. He predicted that if he wins the state’s primary, the nomi­nation would follow, adding, “We will run a campaign of paychecks vs. food stamps and we will beat Obama virtually everywhere in this country.” 
Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum and Texas Gov. Rick Perry are also hoping to change the perception of vot­ers in the first-in-the-South primary state, sometimes by planting seeds of doubt, at oth­er points sketching dismaying bleak prospects for the party if Romney is atop the ticket this fall. 
“As Republicans, we cannot fire our nominee in Septem­ber,” Perry said to Romney from across the debate stage on Monday. 
ready to be back on campus. The thing I missed the most is truly the academics.” 
Garcia said he spent most of his time at home recovering and working on his jaw mobil­ity to improve his chewing and biting abilities. 
it completely,” Garcia said. “I was in the hospital for three days after that.” 
The Notre Dame community has been supportive in the af­termath of his accident, Gar­cia said. 
“I cannot say enough about 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, January 19, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Irrational Fears 
There are three cardinal rules of newspaper writing: don’t make stuff up, don’t misspell names, and don’t focus on yourself — no­body picks up the paper to read about the reporters. Well I’m going to break that last rule and write a vapid, self-ab­sorbed column all about me, or more specifi­cally, my four most irrational fears. Though no one ever asked me for them, here are a few of my least favorite things: 
Crumbs. They disgust me. Maybe because they attract bugs. Maybe because they stick to your bare feet. Maybe because it’s almost impossible to identify the food from which they originated. Whatever the reason, I would rather go jog around a graveyard at night than dig under the back­seats of a minivan. If you ever see me eating a granola bar over the sink, now you know why. 
Rob Pattinson. Remember when you couldn’t enter a Wal-Mart or bookstore without running into a life-size cutout of Edward Cullen? I can’t tell you how many times I was momentarily petrified, ter­rified that I had walked into a predatory meth addict before re­alizing it was just a promotional poster. While I’d like to blame all of the world’s evils on Twilight, I thought Pattinson looked like a sinister porcelain doll even dur­ing his Cedric Diggory days. 
Crying. Intellectually, I know crying is a normal part of hu­manity, but it still freaks me out. When I see people cry I’m over­whelmed with the urge to make them feel better and panicked since I don’t know how. (I even start panicking when people cry in movies. Weird, I know.) I don’t mind little kids crying because they’re usually just tired or hungry, but when people over the age of eight cry there’s usually a problem that Teddy Grahams alone can’t solve. Maybe one day I’ll become more emotionally ma­ture than a preteen boy, but until then I’ll probably keep hyperven­tilating when others tear up. 
South Dining Hall. You SDH loy­alists can keep your apple slices 
— your dining hall is chaotic and dark. You may find it ridiculous that NDH-ers claim seats before getting food, but unless you hap­pen to be eating with a redhead who is over six feet tall there’s no way you’re going to find the rest of your group without awkwardly circling the dining room for five minutes. I don’t need that kind of stress with my meals. I’ve heard people say North Dining Hall reminds them of a nursing home. Well I can think of much scarier things. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at       vjacobse@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Bulls and bears, oh my! 
In January, when America seems to focus entirely on weight-loss strategies and predictions about the coming year, the battle between the bulls and the bears emerges. 
No, I’m not talking about a cross-sport match-up of Chicago athletic teams; I mean the bulls and the bears on Wall Street. 
“Bullish” Grace Concelman and “bear­ish” are Options and terms used Futures to describe investor senti­ment. Instead of saying “I think the stock market will go up,” we say, “I’m bullish.” Why?  It’s a tradition. (And at Notre Dame who are we to argue with tradition?) It’s also fun to say, and it applies equally across different types of markets such as stock, interest rate, and commodity. 
The opposite of bullish is bearish, which is the investor’s opinion that a market will fall. 
It’s easy to remember which is which through an analogy based on the fighting habits of the two beasts. Bulls attack by ramming upwards with their horns, so bullish investors expect a market to go up. Bears do the opposite, attacking by swiping downward with their paws, so bearish investors expect a market to drop. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
I’m bearish about the stock market in 2012. I don’t think we’re close to the end of the mess in Europe. Every day a summit of the European leaders gets de­layed, something new gets downgraded, and the European Central Bank rolls out another grand plan to save the Euro. The situation has been building for two years now, and still there is no credible solution. 
Every day, the U.S. stock market fluctuates based on the news coming out of Europe. Sure, some U.S. economic fig­ures indicate that the economy is on the road to recovery, but collectively the data is mixed. Given the focus on the upcom­ing election, I don’t think we’ll see any economic turning points this year. 
I might be totally wrong. Just because people make predictions doesn’t mean that they will come true. So why should we care about investor sentiment at all? 
Actually, in the case of financial mar­kets, sentiment can be a self-fulfilling prophecy. Often predictions do come true because people act based on their opin­ion about the future. Investors buy or sell financial assets because they think the assets will have greater or lesser value in the future than they do today. Bullish investors assign higher values to assets in the future, so they will be willing to pay more for the same assets today. Hence, the price will likely rise because of the mentality of the herd. In­vestor sentiment does influence markets. 
Admittedly, my opinion about the stock market isn’t going to influence anything, but if we stretch the definitions slightly, there are lots of things we can be bullish and bearish about that we do influence. 
What’s your sentiment on classes? It’s probably mixed.  If you’re bullish about all of your classes, you’re either a second semester senior or studying abroad. If you’re bearish, you’re probably an engineer. 
I’m bearish about the amount of sleep I’ll get as the semester wears on, but bullish about coffee consumption on campus. 
I’m bearish about ever being able to find a parking space in the D2 lot.  If the University ever wanted to make more money by selling parking spaces in pre­mium locations to students, they would be a hot commodity. 
Hopefully we’re all starting the new semester bullish about our GPAs, but naturally, expectations change as we realize that our January predictions only have so much power. Ask me again at midterms. 
Grace Concelman is a senior majoring in finance and philosophy. She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“My future starts when I wake up every morning... Every day I find something creative to do with my life.” 
Miles Davis 
U.S. jazz musician & trumpeter 


WEEKLY POLL 
What was the best part of Winter Break? 
Annoying siblings Eating your weight in candy canes Making New Year’s Resolutions Breaking New Year’s Resolutions 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 

ndsmcobserver.com 


Thursday, January 19, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Things I learned on the train 
I’m not good at going places. 

Ever since the nightmarish day when I became lost in my own neighborhood, messed up my bike’s handlebars and 
came home in  
tears, those  
who know me  John Sandberg  
best are aware  
 
that when I  Guest Columnist  
leave the house  
I’ll probably  

become lost somewhere along the way. It scares them even more when I’m not in my home state of Colorado, where I can always count on finding my direc­tion thanks to the westward mountains. (They tell me there are no mountains in this part of the country.) This fact doesn’t worry me as much as it fright­ens those I live with. 
Last week, en route from crisp Colo­rado to the practically balmy South Bend, I took on Chicago’s L and the South Shore Line. I was in need of some fun after all, and the never-ending escapade that is the Coach USA airport shuttle ain’t no Chuck E. Cheese. And I’m proud to say that I arrived here safely, without one hiccup, scar, broken handlebar or tear shed. Not only did I execute my mission flawlessly, but I observed some fascinating things along the way. 
First, I learned that no matter which one of your parents claims to be “bad at texting,” he or she will manage to push the right buttons on the cell phone enough times when he or she knows you are alone, in America’s third larg­est city, for the first time, trying to master its complex public transporta­tion system, while there’s snow on the ground. 
Sitting at Millennium Station in Chicago, I learned that the idea of romance’s burning flame becoming weaker with time is all a myth — just ask the grey-haired, leather pants-clad couple sitting in the seats across from me. Their lengthy goodbye was quite unlike anything I’ve ever seen. Heart­warming as it may sound, let me just say: it wasn’t. Rather than thinking, “Oh, good for them,” my head was filled with a steady stream of “Are you even allowed to say that at that age?” 
I was pleased to see that, although “Tebow Mania” reaches its feverish peak in Denver, inscriptions of ‘John 3:16’ still find ways to make it across the country, with or without the origi­nator of the “Jump Pass” sporting it on his eye black. Not that I have anything against Tebow, I simply think that even he would be surprised to see it grac­ing the side of a lady’s shopping bag in 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Another chance to make basketball history 
Students, you’ve got a chance to make history this week. This Saturday, the Irish host number one ranked and 20-0 Syracuse at 6 p.m. The game will be na­tionally televised on ESPN. 
Did you know that Notre Dame basketball ranks ninth in all-time wins? That’s not a typo. You might also not know that the Irish have a history of being giant killers, knocking off an unbeaten or top-ranked team 12 times. One of the most memorable of these moments came in 1977 when the Irish upset 29-0 San Fran­cisco. The game was also noteworthy because NBC named the ND student section MVP for its unending chant of “29-and-one” throughout the game. 
The most recent upset happened in 2005, when 20-0 Boston College came to town. The Eagles were greeted by several hundred students, who arrived an hour before tipoff to chant “20-and-one” for all of warm-ups and most of the game as well. Boston College left town 20-1. There’s a plaque commemorating that victory outside section 111 of the Joyce Center. If you’re in the building this week, stop by to see it, and ask yourself if you want to help with upset number 13. 
Brian Tracy 
Class of ‘05 Durham, NC Jan. 18 


downtown Chicago. 
I learned that, despite the GOP com­manding every headline and having its presidential candidates debate every 11 hours, one flamboyant woman is still loud and proud about the fact that Barack Obama won in 2008. What impressed me was that, however you might feel about the President, I don’t remember any other having a three year long victory celebration. So if you’re ever feeling down in the dumps about lackluster approval ratings or an uncooperative Congress, Mr. President, I suggest you take the train like I did. You’ll love what they’re saying about you there. 
I watched this same loud woman master the train like me — except she was doing it with her three sugar-crazed kids running circles around her the whole time. The loud conversations, occasional tantrums and incessant question asking, annoying at first, soon became a lesson in patience, parent­hood and love. 
I learned that riding the train in the winter is much cooler than riding it in the summer, especially after you’ve seen the Polar Express. 
I was assured that, of all the lessons taught in grade school, the most impor­tant one for traveling is and always will be, ‘It’s not polite to stare.’ 
I learned that if you’re carrying a heavy bag, people love to remind you, “That’s a heavy looking bag!” every chance they get. 
It may seem to be common sense that you should not yell at strangers in public, but I learned that this is not absolute. One nice gentleman, whose name I never caught, taught me by example that it’s perfectly acceptable to yell at a stranger if she is an elderly Polish speaking woman who mistakenly cuts the ticket line at the Metra sta­tion. Then, by all means, make a scene. Some other elementary lessons about mole hills and spilled milk sounded vaguely familiar at the time, but I still can’t figure out why…. 
Politics, love, religion and the art of communication, all among the many things I learned in a few hours on the train. And I did it all without the aid of the westward mountains. 
John is a sophomore English major from Littleton, Colo. He is a fan of the Chicago Cubs, Dave Matthews Band and good Mexican food. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


UWIRE 

Timeline shows all 
Facebook never forgets. 
When I switched from my old Facebook profile to the new timeline layout about a month ago, I regretted ever getting a Facebook in the first place. 
Everything I Stephanie Schendel had ever done on Facebook Daily Evergreen was there. Every single party I had RSVPed to, whether I had actually attended or not, was recorded as a “life event.” Every single comment I left on someone else’s photo, status or wall was also there alongside of photo albums I had untagged myself from years ago. 
As I attempted to do digital damage control on what Facebook told me my “life” was, I learned an excruciatingly painful lesson: There’s no going back on something that I wrote or posted about years ago. 
According to Facebook, “Timeline is the new Facebook profile. Tell your life story through photos, friendships and personal milestones like graduat­ing or traveling to new places.” 
For many early Facebook users, like college students, instead of telling an accurate life story, it instead tells an embarrassingly intoxicated tale through drunken pictures and status updates. 
I first started using Facebook in 2007. Like all the other users at that time, I had to sign up with a univer­sity email address. 
For my first Facebook year, all my “friends” were classmates from either high school or college. I used Facebook the way it was originally intended to be used: to communicate with other students. 
It was back in the day when it was socially acceptable to update your Facebook status multiple times throughout the day, and when it was still funny to post unflattering pic­tures of your friends. 
As Facebook’s audience changed and expanded, so did the way I used it to communicate. As more and more non-college students joined Facebook’s social network, I became much more conscious of the people who had access to my page. I used privacy settings, and naively believed that they would stop people from accessing my page. 
When I began to get Facebook friend requests from my grandmother and other family members whom I didn’t talk to on a regular basis, I instantly began deleting some photos and I was more careful about what I posted about. 
Facebook Timeline is a constant reminder of the way I behaved in my late teens, and it is a lot of behavior I am not proud of. At that age, it would have never occurred to me that every interaction I did on Facebook would be remembered forever on their servers or that I would later regret my behavior. 
Now all the stupid things I did back in 2007 then bragged about to my col­lege friends on Facebook are available for all 500 of my friends to read. While it’s fascinating and slightly disturbing to read what kind of person I was when I was 17 years old, I don’t necessarily want other people to have access to it. 
The Internet never forgets. Every­thing we write leaves a digital tattoo somewhere and learning that was excruciatingly painful as I scrolled through thousands of status updates and tried to delete the ones full of teen­age angst. 
After spending hours upon hours trying to clean up my Facebook and only getting through the years 2007 and 2008, regret was the only thing I felt. Deleting friends and old statuses is time consuming and irritating, but in the end, the only person I can blame is myself. 
This article originally ran in the Jan. 18 edition of the Daily Evergreen, serv­ing Washington State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, January 19, 2012 

By NEIL MATHIESON 
Scene Writer 

“Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol” accom­plished exactly what it set out to do. It hounded us through countless TV ads and billboards, built off the recognition of the franchise’s three previ­ous films and at the end of the Christmas holiday was the highest grossing film in theatres. The series always promises audiences extraordinary special effects coupled with high-octane action. This newest addition is no different as, without question, “Ghost Protocol” hits all of its marks and provides some absolutely stunning visuals. The scenes in Dubai are particularly jaw-drop­ping. However, all the pageantry in “Ghost Proto­col” got to be overkill. Although it succeeds as a truly red-blooded action film, it has just enough lame dialogue, one-dimensional characters and convoluted plot to weigh it down. 
In “Ghost Protocol” Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise) is rescued from a Russian gulag only to have himself and his entire IMF (Impossible Missions Force) team framed has rouge agents perpetuating ter­rorist actions and nuclear proliferation. In order to clear their name they must catch the man who framed them. His name is Kurt Hendricks (Mi­chael Nyqvist) a militant extremist, who not only wants to set off Russia’s nuclear missiles at San Francisco but has obtained the launch codes to do so. Now Ethan Hunt and his team must travel around the world and engage in life-threatening covert operations in order to prevent catastrophe. It’s a race against time. 
There are a considerable amount of new faces on the IMF team including Jeremy Renner (“The Hurt Locker”). The critically acclaimed actor plays William Brandt, a troubled military analyst with a secret past as an active agent. Although Renner gives a solid performance on limited screen time his character’s presence is puzzling. The film struggles to get Renner meaningfully in­volved in the narrative. It has problems formulat­ing his character without taking too much time away from Cruise. Yet, I assume they are setting the foundations for Renner to continue as a major component of the franchise. 
Unfortunately, or possibly fortunately, Tom Cruise is no longer the film’s most attractive eye candy. Paula Patton, playing Jane Carter — the only female member of the IMF, now claims this title. To accentuate her feminine quality one scene has Agent Carter in a catfight atop the Burj Khalifia wearing the tightest dress they could put her in. But she does more than just fulfill chau­vinist fantasies. As an agent she is highly capable and can dish it out just as good, if not better, than the boys. Simon Pegg returns as the team’s nerdy tech agent. He continues to steal scenes as well as all the laughs with his sharp comedic timing and bumbling antics. However, there is one person who takes all of this very seriously. That would be Tom Cruise, the Grand Poobah and the engine on which “Ghost Protocol” runs. 
Tom Cruise is much more than just an actor in the “Mission Impossible” franchise. He is also the producer and this time recruited Brad Bird (The Incredibles) to direct his pet project. We can see from Cruise’s commitment to his physical shape and the film’s elaborate action sequences that he has put his all into giving audiences their money worth. However, one wishes just as much effort and time went into developing Ethan Hunt as a character. What motivates him? Is he a fanati­cal patriot, a disillusioned knight or a cynical but noble pragmatist like Bond? He is still largely un­defined. This is the biggest obstacle preventing the films from achieving the same sort of fandom that the James Bond films evoke. 

I do not discredit “Ghost Protocol” for its ludi­crous believability. Because let’s be honest. No government agency could ever be this efficient and effective. But, the screenplay written by Josh Appelbaum and Andre Nemec is clustered and the action suffocates it. Its structure is far to unbalanced to be emotionally compelling. Then when there is time for character develop­ment and exposition it feels forced and sudden, like a drowning man gasping for air. In fact the action scenes are so extensive and frequent that I actually found myself losing concentration at in­stances. At one point I drifted off wondering what the International Monetary Fund was doing. I thought, “They can’t be getting involved in such dangerous international liaisons.” Before long my brain started functioning again.  
Great films consist of intriguing stories accen­tuated by action sequences whereas Mission Im­possible seems to have the formula backwards. The cart is far too ahead of the horse. “Ghost Pro­tocol” unnecessarily exhausts itself on delivering such grandiose spectacles that it neglects its most fundamental responsibility, a compelling story. As impressive and exhilarating as these scenes are in “Ghost Protocol” they are in no sense revo­lutionary. Inevitably the eroding quality of time will render the film’s special effects dated and obsolete. All that will remain will be a pedestrian spy story featuring the one of the world’s biggest movie stars in the twilight of his action career.  
Is it pretentious to ask more of our Hollywood action films? I don’t believe so. Just think of “Raiders of the Lost Ark,” “Aliens” and “The Dark Knight” as examples. These were all Hollywood blockbusters that deliver both the electrifying ac­tion that one expects from a multi-million dollar budget without compromising their substance. Stunts are ephemeral whereas characters and story are what endear an audience to Hollywood fare. Ethan Hunt is our extreme-sports American spy but there is still much to learn about him. 
Contact Neil Mathieson at nmathies@nd.edu 

Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol 
Directed by: Brad Bird Starring: Tom Cruise, Simon Pegg, Jeremy Renner, Paula Patton, Josh Holloway 


Thursday, January 19, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Roller Night at Legends Legends Midnight Free 

Have you ever wanted to do anything more than roller-skate through Legends? Probably not. Well, now’s your chance. Tonight at midnight, Legends is hosting its very own Roller Night. The tag line? “Strap on those rollerblades and get ready to party in a whole new way.” 
Complexions Contemporary Ballet Decio Mainstage, DPAC 7 p.m. $15 for students 
This Friday, DPAC brings to cam­pus performers from Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre company. Enjoy a night of dance that utilizes individual forms of expression in creating and expressing an alto­gether greater unity. The show will also be presented on Thursday and Saturday night. 
The Notre Dame Student Film Festi­val Browning Cinema, DPAC 
6:30 and 9:30 p.m. $3 for students 
The Department of Film, Tele­vision and Theatre presents the 23rd annual Student Film Festival. The films, created by Notre Dame undergraduate students, range in length, story and theme, but all present the finest filmmaking tal­ent of the Notre Dame community. 
Schubert’s Die Schone Mullerin Re­cital and Lecture Leighton Concert Hall, DPAC 
2:30 p.m. Free for students 
This concert features vocal­ist Stephen Ng and pianist James Janssen, performing famed Ger­man composer Franz Schubert. Janssen will play a fortepiano for the performance, the instrument Schubert’s work would have been heard on during Schubert’s life. 


By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 

There is no doubt Tomas Alfredson’s follow-up to his 2008 hit “Let the Right One In,” “Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy,” is meticulous — a thinking man’s film. It’s brimming with moments that play out like still images, the characters so full of suspicion and distrust of one another that Alfredson beckons his audience to trust no one. 
What might seem immersive and in­triguing — a director urging his audi­ence to stare into the whites of his ac­tors’ eyes as the only way of telling truth from lies — is in fact as entertaining as watching people breathe for two hours. 
This cat-and-mouse chase where there is no clear-cut cat or mouse features an all-star cast including Gary Oldman, Tom Hurt and last year’s Best Actor win­ner, Colin Firth. The film retraces the Cold War from the eyes of George Smiley (Oldman), a retired espionage veteran who is called out of retirement to find a potential Soviet mole in the upper ech­elon of the British intelligence. 
Oldman gives a praise-worthy perfor­mance and he and a few others (surpris­ingly, not including Firth) manage to carry the film on their backs for the ma­jority of its seemingly overlong run time. However, “Tinker Tailor” proves too dry, too slow and maybe a casualty of a direc­tor trying to craft too meticulous of a spy thriller. 
It may be that it takes about an hour to actually identify who is who in this film, or maybe that everyone, including Smi­ley, is brought into question at one point or another but it’s fairly obvious who the mole is the entire time. Either way, “Tin­ker Tailor” is one of those rare films that manages to move at a snail’s pace, all the while leaving the audience both in its dust and looking back forced to wait impatiently because we’re both confused about who the last conversation was about yet way ahead of the slow-moving mystery. 
As far as that slow-moving mystery is concerned — the case of who-done-it — Alfredson directs more like a magician with an average trick but a terrible pres­tige rather than the seasoned veteran he is. When the identity of the mole is finally revealed there are no gasps or feelings of even remote surprise. No, there’s not even a semblance of a build-up. It’s al­most one fluid motion that undermines everything else that comes before it as if to say, “Oh, by the way, here is that mole that we’ve spent the last hour and a half chasing.” 
“Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy” might be worth your while if painstakingly slow movies are your cup of tea. For everyone else, maybe this movie might be easier with a cup of tea in hand. Just don’t make it chamomile. This 120-minute whodunit 
is already enough of a snore. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 




page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 19, 2012 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

49ers strike gold in thrilling NFL playoffs 
Ringing in the New Year con­jures up familiar memories for all of us. VH1’s Top 100 One-Hit Wonders, midnight kisses and National Hangover Day come to mind. 
So do the playoffs. (Playoffs? Don’t talk about — playoffs?). 
We’re two rounds in with two to go, but the NFL play­offs have already produced several memorable moments in 2012 and promise to deliver more. 
After a series of letdowns and forgettable matchups, Wild Card Weekend finally captured our attention with a wild fin­ish between the Broncos and Steelers. Tebowmania reached its climax at Mile High, as Tim Tebow “pulled the trigger” à la John Elway and drove the Broncos to a thrilling overtime victory. 
The natural finally found a rhythm through the air, throw­ing for 316 yards and two scores. I think Brady Quinn’s chances at a starting gig in Denver are all but over. 
Last weekend, the return of the 49ers to glory (I’m totally unbiased here) neared frui­tion, as No.1-pick-turned-bust­turned-comeback quarterback Alex Smith led the Red and Gold to a come-from-behind victory over the previously unstoppable Saints. Smith did it with his legs and his arm, scor­ing twice in the final minutes of the fourth to send the Saints packing. 
Is there a stadium that has seen more unforgettable playoff moments than Candlestick Park? I doubt it. In fact, there isn’t. 
Joe Montana rolling to his right to find a leaping Dwight Clark in the corner of the north end zone in the 1981 NFC title game is forever known as The Catch, launching a dynasty that lasted two decades. 
Steve Young fighting to stay on his feet before launching a strike to Terrell Owens with three seconds remaining to give the 49ers their first postseason victory over the Packers has been dubbed The Catch II. 
The 2002 NFC Wild Card game between the 49ers and Giants saw the G-men take a 24-point lead into the third quarter, until Jeff Garcia and Owens led a furious come­back, the second greatest in postseason history. 

And finally last weekend, Smith channeled the great quarterbacks of old, deliver­ing a frozen rope to Vernon Davis in tight coverage and giving life to a franchise mired in mediocrity. A teary-eyed Davis embracing de facto Coach of the Year Jim Har­baugh was icing on the cake. I vote for The Catch III. 
The 49ers will soon break ground on a new stadium in Santa Clara, but the history of The Stick will never be forgot­ten. 
Finally, the heavily favored Packers fell to the Giants in spectacular fashion, and it could have been worse. Poor officiating kept two Pack­ers drives alive, preventing an even bigger blowout on the scoreboard. Eli Manning shredded the Packers defense, and the front seven pressured Aaron Rodgers, who still de­livered an accurate football to receivers with heavy hands. 
And we still have three games to go. 
That’s the beauty of the NFL playoff system. Memorable moments are created in each leg of the journey to the Super Bowl, and home-field advan­tage is an actual advantage. With the exception of the Packers, the home team has won every playoff game this season, creating an incentive to perform during the regular season. 
Unlike the playoffs in the NBA, which never seem to end, or the MLB, which are here and gone, the NFL does it right again. From han­dling the players’ lockout, to playoff scheduling, home-field advantage and Tebowmania, the NFL has been just about perfect this year. 
If the previous four-and-a­half months are any indica­tion, ESPN will explode when a rematch of the Harbaugh Bowl pits San Francisco, exiled from the playoffs for a decade, and Baltimore, exiled from the Irsay family and the Colts, for the championship. 
I can’t wait for the poetic justice. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Tebow played injured in loss 
Associated Press 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. — Tim Tebow needs more R&R than anyone thought. 
The Broncos quarterback played through rib, lung and chest injuries he sustained in Denver’s 45-10 loss at New Eng­land in the AFC divisional play­offs last weekend. 
He won’t need surgery, is ex­pected to make a full recovery with some down time and his offseason training program shouldn’t be affected in any way. 
ESPN first reported Wednes­day that Tebow got hurt on a third-quarter tackle, then had trouble sleeping because of the pain and underwent an MRI on his chest Monday. 
Team spokesman Patrick Smyth said that while he couldn’t confirm the exact extent or na­ture of the injuries due to team policy, he acknowledged that Tebow finished the game in con­siderable pain. 
Backup Brady Quinn quickly got ready to go into the game after Tebow was hit by Vince Wilfork and Rob Ninkovich, but Tebow stayed in and finished up. 
“It’s just the physicality of play­ing football. Sometimes you get hit and it can hurt a little bit. But, I wanted to play a lot of the game,” Tebow said after the game. 
The outcome had long been de­cided by the time Tebow got hurt. 
“I just wanted to show char­acter. You just continue to fight and it doesn’t change who you are, how you play, how you go out there, you should be the same at all times,” Tebow said. “That’s what I wanted to show, it didn’t matter if it was the first play or the last play or you were down by 42. I was going to be the same player and I was still going to give everything I have. Because that’s all I have to give.” 
Tebow, who had an ice pack on his non-throwing shoulder after the game, wasn’t in the locker room during a one-hour media window on Sunday, emerging with a smile from the trainer’s room as reporters were filing out as the players streamed to their end-of-season meeting with coach John Fox. 
Recovery from such injuries can take several weeks, and it’s highly unlikely Tebow would be able to play in the Pro Bowl on Jan. 29 if he’s selected as a sec­ond alternate. 
On Monday, Broncos boss John Elway declared Tebow the in­cumbent starting QB entering training camp next summer and reiterated his plan to work with him during the offseason to help polish his passing game. 
Tebow went 8-5 as the Bron­cos starter after supplanting Kyle Orton following a 1-4 start. He engineered a six-game winning streak that included four straight fourth-quarter comebacks that sent Tebowmania into full pitch. 
He faded at the end, losing his last three starts, including one to the Kansas City Chiefs and Or­ton, but the Broncos backed into the playoffs nevertheless at 8-8 as champions of the middling AFC West. 
Tebow had the best game of his pro career in the wild card round, when he averaged 31.6 yards per completion, the best in the NFL in 40 years, and threw an 80-yard touchdown pass to Demaryius Thomas on the first play of over­time for a 29-23 win over heav­ily favored Pittsburgh and the league’s No. 1 defense. 
That was Denver’s first playoff game in six seasons. 
While the Broncos brass was delighted at returning to the postseason party a year after a franchise-worst 4-12 season, they said the 35-point loss to the Patri­ots showed just how far they need to go to return to the AFC’s upper echelon. 
Tebow, who didn’t get the first-team snaps during training camp or for the first month of the season, realizes he has a long way to go himself. 
“Just work and improve, funda­mentals, understanding defenses, footwork, everything,” he said. 
Tebow might also have to get accustomed to a new offensive coordinator in 2012. Mike McCoy has interviewed for head coaching vacancies in Miami and Oakland. 

McCoy is a hot commodity after retooling Denver’s offense mid­stream to capitalize on Tebow’s unique skill set. He implemented the read-option that turned the NFL on its ear at midseason and resulted in the Broncos soaring to the top of the league in rushing. 
Tebow ran for 660 yards, most by a quarterback in team history, in the regular season and another 63 in the playoffs, leading to concerns among some that he was exposing himself to injury. But Tebow noted that he actually takes glancing blows, if any, from smaller defend­ers while on the run, making him less vulnerable than when he stays in the pocket and might get sand­wiched by 300-pound linemen. 
He took every snap for Denver after replacing Orton at halftime Oct. 9 against San Diego. 
Tebow ran for six TDs in the reg­ular season and one in the playoffs while averaging 5.3 yards a carry. But he completed just 46.5 percent of his passes last season and just 
40.4 percent in the playoffs. 
“We’re always looking for bal­ance,” Elway said. “Balance is what we won Super Bowls with.” 
Elway and Tebow are eager to see what a difference an offseason can make — they didn’t have that luxury last year during the NFL lockout. 
“I feel like I’ve improved a lot in a lot of different forms of my game,” Tebow said. “And I continue to improve and continue to get a lot better, and I believe I can, and I’m looking forward to putting in work.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

“Nobody drives like me. Nobody. “I am such a huge whale fan.” - “I’ve never had stitches! I’ll be “Isosceles. You know, I love the 

FOR RENT PERSONAL 
I’m doing things in this car, you George Costanza deformed. I can’t live with that. It name Isosceles. If I had a kid, have no idea they’re going on.” - goes against my whole personality. I would name him Isosceles. George Costanza It’s just not me!” - Jerry Seinfeld Isosceles Kramer.” - Cosmo 
“If my parents had a mantle, I Kramer ROOM FOR RENT IN A NEW 3 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t “Six years I’ve had this t-shirt. It’s might be a completely different “C’mon George, relax. Just BEDROOM TOWNHOUSE IN IVY go it alone. Notre Dame has many my best one. I call him Golden person.” -George Costanza because they look alike that “I say stupid things all the time. 
QUAD, ADJACENT TO CAMPUS. resources in place to assist you. 
Boy.” - Jerry Seinfeld doesn’t mean you’re secretly in I can’t go two minutes without $700+UTILITIES. If you or someone you love needs love with Jerry.” - Cosmo Kramer saying something stupid.” - 
confidential support or assistance, 
“Where are the totebags? I’m George Costanza please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 “Why couldn’t you make me an not leaving the premises without “You know, if you take everything or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more architect? You know I always totebags. I was promised totebags I’ve done in my entire life and “I was stripped to the waist eating information, visit ND’s website at: wanted to pretend that I was an and totebags I shall have.” - condense it down into one day, it a block of cheese the size of a car SCORGAN@ND.EDU (908)268­architect.” - George Costanza Cosmo Kramer looks decent.” - George Costanza battery.” - George Costanza 9020 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Thursday, January 19, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 

SOCCER 

Barcelona rallies past Real Madrid in first leg, 2-1 
AC Milan advances to quarterfinals in Italian Cup; Wolves knocked out of FA Cup by rivals 
Associated Press 
MADRID — Carles Puyol and Eric Abidal scored rare goals to rally Barcelona over defend­ing champion Real Madrid 2-1 Wednesday night in the first leg of their Copa del Rey quarterfinal. 
Cristiano Ronaldo put Madrid ahead in the 11th minute on a counterattack with his 27th goal of the season, but Puyol tied it with a header off a corner kick in the 49th, his first goal since Oct. 16, 2010. 
Abidal gave Barcelona control of the home-and-home, total-goals series in the 77th when he chested down Lionel Messi’s scooped pass inside the penalty area and flicked a left-footed shot under goalkeeper Iker Casillas. It was just his second goal for Bar­celona, his first since Jan. 5, 2011. 
The second leg is next Wednes­day night at Barcelona, the ninth “clasico” between the rivals in nine months. 
On a night when Messi played his 300th game for Barcelona, the Spanish, European and world champions beat Madrid for the ninth time in 13 games since Pep Guardiola took over as coach. Ma­drid’s lone win during that stretch was in April’s cup final. 
Ronaldo’s goal, his fourth against Barcelona, came when he ran onto Pepe’s long pass and struck a left-footed shot past goal­keeper Jose Manuel Pinto, who starts in cup matches instead of Victor Valdes. 
In Wednesday’s other quarter­final, Fernando Llorente and Iker Muniain headed in goals to give Athletic Bilbao a 2-0 victory over Mallorca. 
AC Milan 2, Novara 1 
Alexandre Pato scored in ex­tra time to give AC Milan a win over Novara and put his team into the Italian Cup quarterfinals Wednesday but then exited with the latest in a series of muscle in­juries. 
In the 100th minute at the San Siro, Pato collected a pass from Robinho and smashed the ball into an empty net after beating an offside trap. 
Robinho then nearly made it 3-1 when he hit the post in the 102nd and Pato then came off in the 116th. 
Milan had taken the lead with a long shot from 19-year-old for­ward Stephen El Shaarawy in the 24th but Serbian midfielder Ivan 
Radovanovic  equalized  in  the  
88th with a low free kick.  
Milan’s  38-year-old  striker  

Filippo Inzaghi made his first start in 16 months and was set up twice by El Sharaawy, but he couldn’t take advantage of his op­portunities and was replaced by Pato in the 58th. 
Having missed most of last sea­son following knee surgery and struggling to find playing time this season, Inzaghi hadn’t start­ed since Sept. 18, 2010. 
Zlatan Ibrahimovic was rested in a match that came three days after Milan’s 1-0 loss to Inter Mi­lan in the city derby. 
In the quarterfinals, Milan will face Lazio, which edged Serie B side Verona 3-2. 
The final quarterfinalist will be determined Thursday when defending champion Inter hosts Genoa, with the winner facing Napoli. 
The other quarterfinal match-ups are Juventus vs. Roma and Siena vs. Chievo Verona. 
Birmingham 1, Wolves 0 
Birmingham knocked local ri­val Wolverhampton Wanderers out of the FA Cup on Wednes­day after midfielder Wade El­liott scored a second-half winner for a victory against the Premier League team in a third-round re­play. 
Elliott initially hit the post from a corner but poked in the rebound in the 74th after a follow-up ef­fort had been blocked as well. The victory means the League Cham­pionship club will visit Sheffield United in the next round, and gave Birmingham a measure of revenge after being relegated from the Premier League last sea­son when a loss in the final round allowed Wolves to stay up. 
In Wednesday’s other match, Brighton needed a penalty shoot­out to beat non-league Wrexham and set up a lucrative home match against Newcastle. 
Birmingham had the better chances throughout and showed no signs of being intimidated by the topflight club, passing the ball around in confident fashion in the early stages. 
Sylvan Ebanks-Blake had the first shot on goal for Wolves but Birmingham goalkeeper Colin Doyle was not extended by his low drive. 
Birmingham striker Adam Rooney had a good chance after 33 minutes, when a mistake by Wolves skipper Christophe Berra left him with a clear run at goal, but leftback George Elokobi man­aged to get back and challenge Rooney as he prepared to shoot inside the box. 

Blues enjoyed a spell of pos­session and again threatened to break the deadlock three minutes before the interval. 
Jordon Mutch’s inswinging free kick picked out Curtis Davies, whose glancing header forced a fine save from Dorus de Vries away to his left. 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, January 19, 2012 
NFL 

Philbin interviews for Miami head coaching position 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Pushing ahead with his career in the wake of personal tragedy, Green Bay Packers offensive coor­dinator Joe Philbin inter­viewed for the Miami Dol­phins’ head coaching job for a second time Wednesday. 
Philbin met with team owner Stephen Ross and general manager Jeff Ire­land in New York City, where Ross has an office. 
Philbin decided to remain in consideration despite his son’s recent drowning in a Wisconsin river. After spending a week away, Phil-bin rejoined the Packers on Sunday for their divisional playoff loss to the New York Giants. 
“He’s a special, special human being,” Packers coach Mike McCarthy said Wednesday. “What Joe has gone through, and what his family has gone through, obviously tough is not the proper word. ... His ability to come back meant a lot to all of us. It was not expect­ed, it was not asked of him. But Joe’s a class act.” 
Also scheduled for second interviews with Ross and Ireland in New York this week were Denver Broncos offensive coordinator Mike McCoy and Todd Bowles, the Dolphins’ interim coach for their final three games this season. 
The three coaches are fi­nalists for the job after top choice Jeff Fisher turned down the Dolphins last Fri­day to become coach of the St. Louis Rams. 
Philbin completed his first interview in South Florida on Jan. 7. 
“I think he would make an excellent head coach,” Mc­Carthy said. “I’ve said that before.” 
Philbin has been with Green Bay since 2003 and has been offensive coordi­nator since 2007, although McCarthy calls plays. The Packers have ranked in the top 10 in the NFL in yard­age each of the past five seasons, including third in 2011. 
McCoy completed his first interview with Miami on Monday. He won praise for adapting the offense at mid-season when Tim Tebow be­came the starting quarter­back, and the Broncos made an improbable run to the second round of the playoffs before losing Saturday at New England. 
The Oakland Raiders also have received permission from Denver to interview McCoy, and they interviewed Bowles. 
Bowles was assistant head coach and secondary coach before taking over the Dol­phins when they fired Tony Sparano last month with three games to go in his fourth season as coach. Bowles became the sixth coach since 2004 for the Dolphins, who finished 6-10 and haven’t won a playoff game since 2000. 
After being rejected by Fisher, Ross said the team planned to interview sev­eral more candidates. But they may want to move more quickly now that the India­napolis Colts are looking for a coach. The Colts fired Jim Caldwell on Tuesday. 
MLB 

Darvish,  Rangers agree to deal 

Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — Yu Dar­vish is coming to America to pitch. 
Japan’s best pitcher and the Texas Rangers agreed before Wednesday’s deadline to a $60 million, six-year contract. In addi­tion to the salary, the Rangers will pay a posting fee of $51,703,411 to the Hokkaido Nippon Ham Fight­ers of Japan’s Pacific League. 
“We look at this as really a perfect fit,” general manager Jon Daniels said. “Obviously he has yet to pitch in the major leagues, but we feel he has proven himself on a big stage. ... “It’s all winning.” 
The deal came at the end of a 30-day negotiating window that began Dec. 19 when the Rangers’ bid to negotiate with the pitcher was accepted. 
Had a deal not been reached by the 4 p.m. CST deadline, Darvish would have remained with the Fighters. And Texas, which has been to consecutive World Series without winning the title, would have kept the posting fee that ends with the jersey numbers of Rangers President and Hall of Fame pitcher Nolan Ryan (34) and Darvish (11). 
When the deal was reached in Texas by his agents Don Nomura and Arn Tellem, the 25-year­old Darvish was home in Japan, where he returned for offseason training after his first and only visit to Texas two weeks ago. The Rangers plan to formally intro­duce Darvish on Friday night. 
Tellem said the Rangers not only spent more time than any other team scouting Darvish, but also built a personal relationship with the pitcher while scouting him. He said the pitcher is excited about the opportunity in Texas. 
“It’s a great team that’s been on the door step, and hopefully with Yu coming they will finally reach the goal of winning a World Se­ries,” Tellem said. “Yu is excited about helping a team that has not won achieve that goal. ... He’s re­ally thrilled to be coming here. This is where he wanted to be.” 
Darvish had a 93-38 record with a 1.99 ERA over the past sev­en seasons in Japan. The 6-foot­5 right-hander was a two-time Pacific League MVP and a five-time All-Star. He led the league in strikeouts three times, in ERA twice and won two Gold Gloves. 
Ryan was impressed by Dar­vish’s size and attitude about wanting to compete when they met for the first time earlier this month. 
“The thing that stood out prob-ably is just his passion for the game and trying to be the best he can possibly be,” Ryan said Wednesday. “One of the motiva­tions about coming to the major leagues here is it’s another chal­lenge for him, it’s an opportunity on a stage that he hasn’t been on to show what he’s capable of do­ing.” 


The deal surpasses what Daisuke Matsuzaka got when he left Japan and signed with the Boston Red Sox just more than five years ago. Dice-K got a $52 million, six-year deal and the Red Sox also had to pay a $51.111 mil­lion posting fee that was the high­est for a Japanese player before what the Rangers bid for Darvish. 


Thursday, January 19, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 

SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles fall at home to No. 4 Calvin College 

By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s was unable to hand No. 4 Calvin College its first loss Wednesday night, as the undefeated Knights took down the Belles 80-54. 
Calvin (16-0, 8-0 MIAA) utilized a strong defensive performance in the vic­tory, forcing the Belles 56-31.  The Belles were able to pull within 19 points twice, but the Knights proved to be too much for Saint Mary’s, using a strong defense and an explosive offense to keep the game out of reach. 
Calvin hit 21 second-half shots totaling 51 points, as the game ended with a 26-point 

(7-10, 3-5) to “We struggled on offense shoot 18 for tonight. We got some great 67 (26.9 per-looks, we just weren’t 
cent) from 

hitting [our shots].” 
the field. “We strug-

Jennifer Henley 
gled on of­fense to-Belles coach 
night,” Belles coach Jen­nifer Henley said. “We got some great looks, we just weren’t hitting [our shots].” 
Calvin started the game with a bang, jumping out to an 11-2 lead only five minutes into the contest.  Saint Mary’s was able to cut the lead to seven points halfway through the period on a pair of free throws by senior guard Pat­sy Mahoney, but the Knights responded with a 12-5 run to extend their lead to 25­11 with 4:33 left in the half. The first half ended with the Knights up by 12. 
The second half featured more dominance from the Knights, as the visitors opened up a 25-point lead 8:43 into the second half, going up margin in favor of the Knights. 
“Calvin came out of halftime and executed very well in the second half,” Henley said. 
The Belles were led by Ma honey, who scored 15 points, 
senior guard Maggie Ronan, who added 12 points, and se­nior forward Kelley Murphy, who notched her 20th career double-double with 11 points and 10 rebounds. 
Despite the loss, Henley said her team could still learn from the game. 
“I thought our kids played a very good team tonight,” Hen­ley said. “There’s a reason Calvin is ranked No. 4 (Divi­sion III) in the country”. 
The Belles will next take the court Saturday night when they travel to Alma Col­lege for a conference game. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
Brey 
continued from page 16 
to Notre Dame. 

“When we played Pitt, we looked at it like a huge game given they were ranked. We were really ready to play, as we were for Louisville,” Brey said. “Both of them have not played as well as one would have expected.” 
While Brey likes the cha­otic nature of the Big East, he also said earning wins in the league will be a tough task for the short-handed Irish. 
“Any league win you can get is huge,” Brey said. “Last year, we breezed to 14 league wins. This year is going to be a scratching, grinding, clawing next two months.” 
The Big East’s depth has created a tough schedule for the Irish, given they must play Rutgers, No. 13 Con­necticut and West Virginia twice this season. 
“If you can go 9-9 against the toughness of our league schedule, you’re probably going to be in the discussion for the NCAA Tournament,” Brey said. “That’s going to be really hard to do with the schedule we have set up.” 
Despite the difficult slate ahead for Notre Dame, Brey said the Irish have taken on the challenge 
“One of the things I talk-


Poland 
continued from page 16 
said. “I was running Poland’s national team, which was one of the tops in the world at the time. Then I came to the Unit­ed States, but I was looking 
for a chance to work at a u n iversit y. I sort of fell into this job. I was attracted to the athletic tradition, ac­ademic stan­dards and the Catholic tra­dition of this place.” 
Since his arrival, Bed­narksi has guided the Irish fencing program to three nation­al champion-
is as much 
“I sort of fell into this 
mine as it is 
job. I was attracted to 
all those who 
the athletic tradition, 
worked with 
academic standards and 
this program 
the Catholic tradition and me,” of this place.” Bed na rski said. 
In that vein, in just 
Janusz Bednarski 
Irish coach 
ships in 2003, 2005 and 2011 and has overseen Notre Dame fencers who have gone on to thrive in international compe­tition. 
To junior James Kaull, Bed­narski’s success stems from his precision and organiza­tion. 
“He’s a fantastic organiz­er,” Kaull said. “We’re always where we’re supposed to be all the time. There’s never any confusion.” 
The ability to run a program that includes over 50 athletes is a strongpoint of Bednarski’s ed to our group about in the midst of November and December getting smacked pretty good, was to em­brace the challenge that this season will be,” Brey said. “Most of these guys were on the team last year on cruise control. 
“This is a huge challenge for our staff and our group. I think they’ve embraced it. For me, it’s more of a teach­ing year. It’s exciting to me, it’s energized me. It’s a neat challenge at this point in my career.” 
Notre Dame faces No. 1 Syracuse on Saturday at 6 
p.m. in Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
that compliments his techni­cal knowledge and expertise. 
“He’s great with our individ­ual lessons and techniques,” Kaull said. “He just really likes teaching the sport and helping people.” 
The recognition from the US­FCA is the first of Bednarski’s career, although he did gar­ner the association’s Midwest 
Coach of the 
Year award 
in 1997 and 
1998. 
“The honor 
a week a new member of the Irish coaching staff will be introduced. 
Cedric Loiseau will become the new epeé coach, a position that has been vacant for most of the year and has been held in part by Kaull. 
“Loiseau came and led a practice over break,” Kaull said. “We’re really excited to have him here. He really knows what he’s doing.” 
Bednarski believes Loi­seau’s addition to his staff will allow the Irish to flourish for years to come. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, January 19, 2012 
ing team chemistry. 
Welsh 
“One of the intangible ben­
continued from page 16 
swimmers ended Notre Dame’s 10-day trip with a victory. 
Sophomore Frank Dyer earned gold in the 100-me­ter free stroke event, while freshman Cameron Miller placed first in the 100-me­ter breaststroke race. Se­nior Petar Petrovic and ju­nior Kevin Overholt added to Notre Dame’s success with gold medals in the 100-meter backstroke and 50-meter free stroke races, respectively. 
The Irish dominated the meet with a first-place 78 overall points, while second-place Southern Illinois record­ed just 33 points. 
Unlike a typical week of practice in South Bend, Notre Dame’s swimmers and divers enjoyed the week together as a group. All training sessions and team dinners included the entire team, ultimately build­efits of this trip is it does unite and strengthen the group and tighten the spirit,” Welsh said. “You know that it’s happening, but you can’t put a finger on it. We live together, eat together, go to the beach together. The guys get along, [and] the mo­rale and the spirit and the ca­maraderie is just excellent.” 
Welsh said that the Puerto Rican adventure is not fin­ished until the student man­ager participates in the team’s four-year long tradition. This year, diving coach Caiming Xie joined in and dove off the 10-meter tower twice. 
“The manager jumps off the 10-meter tower right before we leave,” he said. “Guys love that and it’s just one thing we have fun with.” 
The Irish will face Michigan State at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Saturday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.com 


McGraw 
continued from page 16 
age with a 70.2-percent perfor­mance. 
For the Irish, the opportunity to break single-game records offers a valuable chance to quantify their offense’s success. 
“It’s great to have those records beaten,” senior guard Natalie No­vosel said. “We take pride in every game … It’s a really huge success.” 
Notre Dame is shooting 49.2 percent from the field while scor­ing 85.6 points per game, on pace to break the previous program record of 81.0 points per game set in the 1998-1999 season. The Irish are also averaging 19.9 assists per game and have an assist-turnover ratio of 1.2, better than the pro­gram’s record of 1.15, set by the national champion 2000-2001 team. 
Led by Novosel’s 16.3 points per game, the Irish currently have four players averaging over 10 points per game. With so much talent on the floor, Notre Dame’s greatest success is finding a role for everyone on the offensive end, Novosel said. 
“I think that’s why coach Mc­Graw does such an amazing job of finding all this talent that she has and putting it all together,” the se­nior said. “I think everybody has finally accepted their role on the team, I think that is why we are doing so well right now. Everyone is taking their role in stride and fulfilling their role to a tee because all the little things add up to what make us such a good team right now.” 
Heading into the season, Mc­Graw repeatedly referred to this year’s team as “the best three-point shooting” team in her 25 years at Notre Dame. But through 19 games, the Irish have battled inconsistency from behind the arc. Despite their struggles, the Irish have managed to shoot three-pointers at a 34.5 percent clip. 
“We’ve had some games where we’ve shot it extremely well and some games where we have not and I think we’ve got to be smart on our shot selection,” McGraw said. 
For the Irish to heat up from three-point range it will take in­creased success in the transition game, Novosel said. 
“I think it starts with our tran­sition,” she said. “Once we get go­ing with our transition it opens up the outside and we are able to es­tablish our post presence that en­ables us to have outside shots, an in-and-out look.” 
Whether the Irish improve their ability to shoot from range consis­tently or not, the offense promises to have continued success. 
“We’ve got so many people who are really versatile right now 
– guards, post players alike,” No­vosel said. “It’s really hard for [the opponent] to do box and one or tri­angle and two against us because there are so many options and weapons and I think that’s what makes us so special right now.” 
Special indeed, and that’s how they will be remembered in the record books. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


Thursday, January 19, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JUMBLE DAVID L. HOyT JEFF KNUREK 

THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, January 19, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
In the midst of a 15-game win­ning streak, the second-ranked Irish and their potent offense are getting it done. Having already eclipsed 100 points twice in a sea­son for the first time, Notre Dame is well on its way to achieving one of the most successful offensive seasons in program history. 
In Tuesday’s 120-44 rout of Pittsburgh (8-11, 0-6 Big East), the Irish (18-1, 6-0) had only nine turnovers and broke several pro­gram records with an offensive performance most coaches could only dream of. 
“It’s a lot of fun to see great ex­ecution and not a lot of turnovers,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I think we pushed the ball, we re­ally did a nice job looking for each other … It was a great team effort so it was a lot of fun. 
“There were some amazing 

Century marksmen 
numbers on the offensive side.” 
Against Pittsburgh, Notre Dame’s 33 assists were the most for the Irish since 1990, the 76-point margin of victory was Notre Dame’s largest ever in Big East play, 120 points were the most in a conference home game, 48 baskets were the most at home in program history and with eight players scoring in double figures, the Irish tied a program record. 
Amazing numbers indeed. 
And perhaps even more amaz­ing, the victory was arguably not Notre Dame’s best offensive per­formance of the season. On Dec. 30, the Irish defeated Mercer 128­42 while breaking multiple school records. 
Notre Dame set marks for most points in a game, most points in a half with 72 and most free throws made with 43 while tying the pro­gram record for shooting percent-
see McGRAW/page 14 




MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Trip to Puerto Rico provides escape, experience for squad 
By MEGAN GOLDEN lar trip, the club set up Sun-“ko-kee” during all hours of to take in the sunny skies and ence, Welsh said his favorite Sports Writer day Mass and a dinner for the the night. high temperatures, staying at part of the trip is always the 
team. Welsh said the little frog has a resort near a local beach. training experience. 
Notre Dame traveled to San “One of the things that become the topic of conver-“Our hotel was right on the “We certainly enjoyed the Juan, Puerto Rico, on Jan. 5, keeps us in close contact with sation following this annual beach, so most of the team re-weather; it was sunny and 80 picking up its second Copa this group is the Notre Dame meet. laxed there or tried to catch [degrees] most of the days, Coqui title in three years. alumni club. The club in San “When you’re in San Juan, some waves between prac-which was absolutely wonder-The chance to escape the Juan has been just wonderful you can hear those little frogs tice,” senior co-captain Mar-ful,” he said. “The training is heavy South Bend snowfall for us,” Irish coach Tim Welsh everywhere; they seem like shall Sherman said. one of the reasons we go; the was widely accepted by Irish said. “They roasted a pig and they’re in the bushes and all The team was also able to training is excellent. [It] gives swimmers, who got a taste of had a big pig roast dinner with over the place,” Welsh said. sightsee old San Juan, where good team morale [and] good warm weather and Puerto Ri-members of the alumni club. “The people in San Juan tell there are many small shops energy in practice. We had can culture. The priest was an alum of us that those little Coqui frogs and boats docked along the practice in the ocean one day, 
Throughout the four years Notre Dame, and his parents are everywhere in the Carib-coastline. All team members and we had one morning where the Irish have made the trip were there. It was a wonderful bean, but they only sing in had the chance to indulge in we trained on the beach. You to San Juan, the Notre Dame event.” Puerto Rico. We don’t know if Puerto Rican cuisine and fried can’t do that in South Bend.” Club of San Juan has played The Copa Coqui meet is that’s true, but we like to tell plantains were the popular Big finishes from four Irish a large role in welcoming the named after male Coqui frogs, that little story.” food choice, Sherman said. team. During this particu-which are known for singing The Irish had plenty of time Despite the cultural experi-see WELSH/page 14 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Chaotic Big East to test Irish 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
A year after a record 11 berths in the NCAA tourna­ment, the Big East is back to its old chaotic ways. After placing four teams in the top­10 of the preseason Associat­ed Press poll, the conference now owns just two places in the top-10. 
Notre Dame (11-8, 3-3 Big East) will host one of those teams, top-ranked Syracuse, on Saturday at Purcell Pavil­ion. Syracuse (20-0, 7-0) is considered the only Big East team that has lived up to its preseason expectations. 
“I think it’s good for us be­cause we’ve been chaotic,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “In the midst of the chaos, that’s good for a team trying to find itself. We’re thrilled to be 3-3 [in the Big East] and in the middle of the pack right now. The chaos is a good thing given who we are right now.” 
Notre Dame’s performance this season has been mostly inconsistent, ranging from lopsided losses to Missouri, Gonzaga and Cincinnati to an impressive road performance against preseason No. 9 Lou­isville. 
The Cardinals (14-5, 2-4) have struggled lately, drop-ping three of their last four games including the double-overtime loss to the Irish at home. The win marked one of two over then-ranked con­ference opponents for Notre Dame. Preseason No. 10 Pitts­burgh has dropped to 0-6 in conference play since falling 


see BREY/page 13 


FENCING 
Tumultuous journey leads Bendarski to ND 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
During the late seventies Irish coach Janusz Bednarski was an economics professor at the SGPiS Business Col­lege in Warsaw in his home country of Poland, a state at that time controlled by the Soviet Union. Frustrated by the economic environment of Poland, Bednarski decided to switch teaching to physi­cal education and coaching. 
“At that time there was no market for me to continue my work,” Bednarski said. “So I switched.” 
The decision has worked out well for Bedarski and has brought him across the globe to teach his craft. Over forty years later, Bednarski is 4,000 miles from his home and the coach of the defend­ing national champion Irish, as well as the 2010-2011 NCAA coach of the year. The United States Fencing Coaches Association honored Bednarski with their highest award Monday. 
Bednarski first came to the United States after lead­ing Poland’s national team for ten years until 1988, when he left to take a post at a private fencing club near Colorado Springs. Bednar­ski worked with many of the top American Olympic fenc­ers, eventually ascending to head coach of the American Olympic team in 1993. Just two years later, he would find himself in South Bend. 
“It was almost kind of an accident that I ended up at Notre Dame,” Bednarski 
see POLAND/page 13 



