The IndependenT 
To uncoVer newspaper serVIng The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT saInT mary’s IT accuraTely 


Volume 46, Issue 49 | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012 | ndsmcobserVer.com 



Today and tomorrow 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office Information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




EDITORIAL 
Today is election day. 
Today is the culmination of months and months of specu­lation and speeches, ads and attack campaigns. The politi­cal climate of the 2012 campaign followed the precedent of mud slinging among candidates and, well, it got a little dirty. 
Today is election day. Tomorrow is not. we will be done with the months and months of speculation and speeches, ads and attack campaigns. we brush ourselves off, and then what? 
The issues at stake in this election have been sweeping changes for our country, and they have provoked unprec­edented debate about tax policy, healthcare and the power of government in the united states. 
we talked about what economic growth has meant to us in the last four years. we have talked about what a 7.8 per­cent unemployment rate means to us as soon-to-be college graduates. we have talked about what it means to enter the job market armed with a notre dame degree, to step into the real world where the unemployment rate for job hunters with bachelors degrees is still 3.8 percent. 
economic recovery is at its strongest point since our cur­rent president took office four years ago. but that recovery came with a price — the banks and the auto industry got bailouts from the government, changing the federal govern­ment’s relationship to businesses in the process. as we pre­pare to leave this university to become entrepreneurs and employees, business owners and bankers, we need to keep talking about what being part of the workforce means to us. 
we’ve talked about our national debt, which has contin­ued to climb for over a decade — and we’ve talked about two very different plans to start addressing it. as we flip the calendar from today to tomorrow, we need to keep talking about what the role of the government means to us in the way our country’s economy operates. 
we have talked about healthcare, what providing for those who are in need means to us, what the role of in­surance in a free market means to us. we have talked about what our university’s federal lawsuit against the department of health and human services’ policies un­der the affordable care act. The winner of this election will dramatically impact the future of healthcare in this country, and we need to keep talking about how insurance should be provided for our fellow citizens. 
we talked about these issues, and many more. but we did not talk about everything. 
we voted in an election with the first candidate who took a public stance in support of gay marriage, and the issue of gay rights did not come up in a single presidential debate. 
not enough discourse has been devoted to the environ­ment and climate change, which could be the most impor­tant long-term issue facing our planet.  
although the economy dominated the discussion in re­cent months, europe’s economic crisis has been largely ignored. 
we touched on immigration policies and reform, but we did not talk about it in helpful ways that added to a national conversation about what it means to become a united states citizen. 
In 2008, the housing market was in a state of crisis. Today, it is still struggling, but the topic that received so much at­tention four years ago produced little attention this time around, as neither candidate put forth a specific plan to help the slowly recovering market. 
Today is election day. and in some ways, it doesn’t mat­ter who wins. These presidential candidates subscribe to different philosophies and hail from different parties, but these conversations should still be on the table no matter what. These questions will still need to be answered, and we all still need to be in the conversation to make sure our government knows what these issues mean to us. 
we need to ensure today’s conversations are tomorrow’s discussions, and that we vow to continue to work toward solutions. we need to make sure conversations that were not had in the midst of this election season do not fall to the wayside. being informed on these issues doesn’t stop being important today. Knowing who is serving in public office in your state becomes no less relevant when the ballots are turned in tonight. 
Today is election day. Tomorrow is not. what does that mean to us? 



News 
megan doyle sam stryker nicole michels dan brombach caroline hutrya 

Graphics 
brandon Keelean sara shoemake 


Corrections 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 







Political classes examine election coverage 
By MADDIE DALY News Writer 
Voter education has long been a focal point of any election, and several notre dame professors took that a step further this se­mester by teaching courses on the american political system and this year’s campaigns. 
political science professor peri arnold teaches a course titled “presidential leadership,” and he said he has specifically inte­grated the 2012 election into his material. 
“we have discussed the cam­paign for about 30 minutes each monday of the semester,” arnold said.  “I’ve been struck by the students’ perceptiveness and objectivity in these discussions.” 
From these discussions over the final stretch of the election season, arnold said he believes his students to be alert and in­formed voters. 
“I think the students I know through my classes are thought­ful people, and, consequently, thoughtful voters,” arnold said. 
although partisan arguments are a major risk when discuss­ing politics with intelligent and competitive notre dames stu­dents, arnold said the conver­sation in his classroom every monday has stayed tame. 
“There has been a complete absence of heated partisan­ship,” arnold said. “we might be doing something wrong in my pols 30001, but we’ve not had a ‘hot button’ issue in the sense that sharp words were used or heated exchanges ensued.” 
similarly, in american studies professor Josh roiland’s “Journalism and american democracy” class, students de­bating major issues have avoided serious partisan disagreements. 
“we don’t necessarily de­bate the partisan issues  — Is 
“I think the 
students I know 
through my classes 
are thoughtful 
people, and, 
consequently, 

thoughtful voters.” 
Peri Arnold 
political science professor 
obama’s health care law a good thing? what’s the best way to fix the economy? — but rather we talk about how those issues are presented to the public via various news sources, and how the public can and does use that information to make informed decisions,” roiland said. 
The course differs from arnold’s in that roiland specifi­cally asks his students to look at media coverage of the election rather than the content of the election itself. 
“I teach the course ‘Journalism and american democracy’, so in our class many of the con­versations have been about the coverage of the campaign,” roiland said.  “but we don’t talk about the news coverage in terms of ‘bias’ which is, unfortu­nately, the vocabulary so many people use when discussing the news media.” 
as a class, roiland explained, they try to avoid the severely opinionated networks. 
“now, of course, many televi­sion pundits, whether they be Fox news or msnbc, certainly have opinions and share them freely — and loudly — on tele­vision,” roiland said.  “but I’m talking about more traditional, so-called ‘objective’ arenas of news.  we look at the way cam­paign coverage fits into pre­existing narratives about the country, about republicans and democrats, and about popular topics, whether they be health care, the economy, or the war.” 
roiland praised the in-depth coverage from the one particu­lar online media source that has covered the election extensively this year. 
“one of the most important developments that I see in this campaign has to do with nate silver’s FiveThirtyeight blog for The new york Times,” roiland said.  “he’s a statistician who aggregates a large number of state polls to give a larger sense of where the candidates stand in relation to the electoral college. silver has been saying — and showing, statistically — that in fact the probability of obama winning is, as of his blog [this past weekend], around 80 per­cent.”  as of monday night, silver’s forecast stood at a 92 percent chance of an obama victory. 
This controversial prediction has sparked conversation in roiland’s class, especially per­taining to the reaction of con­servative media outlets. 
“TV pundits (especially if they are conservative) hate what silver is saying because it undermines what they are say­ing about romney’s chances to win,” roiland said. “and be­cause so much of the journalism coverage is of the ‘horse race’ va­riety — that is, obama’s ahead, now romney’s ahead, etc. — silver is also rendering that style irrelevant.” 


roiland’s students are able to see both sides of this argument and make a very educated vote based on the wide range of me­dia they have studied, he said. roiland is a traveling professor and only offers these classes at notre dame this year. 
“but ideally, wherever I end up, I would like to teach the ‘Journalism and american democracy’ class every semes­ter because its basic question 
— what is the relationship be­tween journalism and american democracy? — is always impor­tant,” roiland said.  “looking at that relationship during an elec­tion year heightens the stakes.” 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 



students mobilize support for candidates 
in mishawaka and because 

By ANNA BOARINI news writer  of t hat, I not on ly consider  
mysel f to be a member of  
For st udent s i nterested  t he not re da me com mu- 
i n r u n n ing for publ ic of- n it y, but a lso a member  
f ice, work i ng on a ny level  of t he greater sout h bend  
of ca mpa ig n t his elect ion  com munit y.”  
sea son was va luable  pa r t of spoolst ra’s job  
ex per ience.  w it h t he ca mpa ig n is to  
not re da me sen ior Trent  go door to door, ask i ng for  
spoolst ra ha s ser ved on  votes.  
2nd cong ressiona l dist r ict  “my job as a n i nter n was  
democrat ic ca nd idate  to ma ke phone ca l ls to vot­ 
brenda n mu l len’s ca m­ ers a nd persuade t hem to  
pa ig n si nce t he fa l l of 2010.  vote for mr. mu l len a nd I  
spoolst ra sta r ted out a s  a lso d id door-to-door ca m­ 
a volu nteer a nd is now a n  pa ig n i ng where I was able  
i nter n.  to meet a nd connect w it h  
spoolst ra sa id he decided  voters face-to-face,” he  
to stay i n mishawa ka t h is  APsa id.  
su m mer to work on t he  Former U.S. Senator and Indiana governor Evan Bayh thanks workers at the Democratic headquarters in T he mu l len ca mpa ig n  
ca mpa ig n, wh i le ta k i ng  South Bend on Monday with Democratic candidates Joe Donnelly,  left, and Brendan Mullen, right. is not t he f i rst ca mpa ig n  
classes at not re da me.  on wh ich spoolst ra has bid. “I t houg ht it wou ld be a  melody a lva rado, a 2012  
“I bega n work i ng w it h  worked. “my involvement i n g reat idea to reg ister smc  sa i nt ma r y’s g raduate a nd  
t he ca mpa ig n ea rl ier t h is  “[I] helped out a l itt le t he obama campaig n st udents to vote … T h roug h  f u l l-t i me oba ma ca m­ 
su m mer … w it h most of  bit w it h Joe don nel ly ’s re-h it its pea k when I be-t he club’s voter reg ist ra­ pa ig n volu nteer got la ma r  
ou r col lege [democrat s ]  elect ion ca mpa ig n back i n ca me president of you ng t ion ca mpa ig n we held i n  a nd t he ot her st udent s  
back home for t he su m mer,  2010 a nd I worked reg u­democ rat s [at sa i nt ma r y ’s september, we reg i stered  involved w it h t he phone  
I t houg ht it wou ld be good  la rly for mi ke ha ma n n’s t h is semester]. before about 80 st udent s to vote,”  ba n k projec t.  
to keep up t he presence of  ca mpa ig n for sout h bend school sta r ted, I sta r ted she sa id. “T hat was a sub- “we have hosted t h ree  
nd col lege dems helpi ng  mayor ea rl ier la st yea r,” he bra i nstor m ing ways I cou ld sta nt ia l nu mber g iven t hat  phone ba n k s for t wo hours  
out t he mu l len ca mpa ig n,”  sa id. promote oba ma’s agenda t he school is so sma l l.”  t h is semester [a nd] have  
he sa id. “I got i nvolved, be- sa int ma r y’s sen ior to t he ca mpus,” she sa id. w h i le reg ister i ng vot­ made over 600 ca l ls,” she  
cause I rea l ly enjoy pol i- l ondon la ma r has been a l amar and ot her sai nt ers, t he col lege democrats  sa id. “a s you k now, ohio is  
t ics a nd I wa nted to be  cong ressiona l volu nteer, ma r y’s st udents have been u nder l a ma r’s leader- a n i mpor ta nt sw i ng state.”  
i nvolved w it h t he g reater  but t he f i rst ca mpa ig n she work ing to help reg ister sh ip have a lso held phone  
sout h bend pol it ica l com- ha s a ssisted on is president voters, a goa l of oba ma’s ba n k s, ca l l i ng voters i n  Contact Anna Boarini at  
mu n it y.  I l ive of f-ca mpus  ba rack oba ma’s reelect ion campaig n. oh io on oba ma’s beha lf.  aboari01@saintmarys.edu  




BATTLEGROUND STATES 
COLORADO: 

obama won the state’s nine electoral votes in 2008, even though colorado had voted republican in eight of the previous nine elec­tions. This year, the state is undecided as the rocky mountain resi­dents are wary of big government, but obama still appeals to a strong population of colorado students and hispanic voters. 

FLORIDA: 

no surprise Florida and its 29 electoral vote are yet again a point of contention in this election. obama took the sunshine state in 2008, but the economy has hit the state hard with home foreclosures and financial troubles. 

IOWA: 

In a close election, the six electoral votes in this state matter. romney has targeted obama here with heavy campaigning, and the presi­dent’s poll ratings are lower than in surrounding states. but obama won Iowa in 2008 — his first official victory in the primary four years ago — and hopes to carry the state again. . 

NEW HAMPSHIRE: 

obama campaigned in new hampshire over the weekend in a final blitz, but has yet to clinch the support of the state’s voters. romney, who owns a summer house in northern new hampshire, appeals to voters who want to avoid intrusive government. 

OHIO: 

The winner of the national election has also won the state of ohio in the last 12 elections. economic improvements of late could help obama in the buckeye state, but large portions of ohio remain more conservative.  The latest polls suggest obama holds a narrow lead in the state. 

VIRGINIA: 

a state where the gop runs deep, this state has been an unexpected battleground in 2012. a large number of government workers in the state may repeat obama’s shy win there from 2008, but the race is still too close to call. 

WISCONSIN: 

Vice presidential candidate paul ryan hails from wisconsin, but obama has fought hard for the state that has been held by democrats in the last six elections. 

PENNSYLVANIA: 

romney swung through pennsylvania this weekend in one final push for a swing state that appears to be leaning democrat yet again. obama leads in the state’s polls, but his gop challenger has not given up the fight yet. 

NEVADA: 

economic downturn in the state has hurt obama significantly in nevada, but a strong appeal to latino voters has kept the president competitive against romney’s fire against his opponent here in the silver state. 

NORTH CAROLINA: 

early voting pushed obama to a win in north carolina in 2008, and charlotte hosted the democratic national convention earlier this year. but heavy advertising and a decline in democratic spending here has given romney an edge in the final stretch before election day. 
Source: The new york Times, politico 

AK 

3 VOTES 




HI 

4 VOTES 


ELECTION TIMELINE 

APRIL 4, 2011 

barack obama announces candidacy for sec­ond presidential term. 
JUNE 2, 2011 

mitt romney announces candidacy for presi­dential nomination of the republican party. 
JANUARY 3, 2012 

Iowa republican caucus initially declared mitt romney victory, then rick santorum; then ron paul. 
JANUARY 10, 2012 

mitt romney takes new hampshire republican primary. 
MARCH  6, 2012 
super Tuesday — romney wins six states, santorum wins three states and newt gingrich wins one state. 
ARRIL 3, 2012 
barack obama won enough delegates to take the democratic nomination. 
APRIL 25, 2012 
republican national committee declares mitt romney the presumptive nominee of the party. 
The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 49 | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Pittsburgh game draws massive crowds 
Weekend operations run smoothly despite cold weather, numerous alcohol-related tickets and arrests 
By MADDIE DALY 
news writer 
Fans of notre dame and pittsburgh flocked to campus Friday and saturday, turning south bend into a crowded tour­ist destination for the fifth home game of the season. 
according to the director of game day operations mike seamon, everything pertaining to the game went smoothly. 
“overall it was another great home football weekend,” seamon said.  “it was a welcome relief to have the weather cooper­ate all day and not interfere with any of the pre-game festivities or the game itself.” 
compared to previous home games, this one brought as many if not more fans to south bend because of notre dame’s excep­tional football season. 
“it was definitely a busy week­end as we witnessed high num­bers at all of the various events on Friday and saturday,” seamon said.  “The Friday tunnel tour had another big weekend with over 5,100 visitors and the pep rally had over 9,500 fans.” 
The fans that came out for this game were very enthusiastic to watch their undefeated team 
see gameday PAGE 5 


Coastal areas cope with storm devastation 
north to the home of an aunt, out a tropical storm before it hit land countless volunteers have been fell on the garage. but his ex-

By MEL FLANAGAN 

news writer of the house for the next several in new Jersey, barreled into the working around the clock to pro-tended family, who live nearby 
months. east coast on oct. 29, affecting vide my community with bottled in the small beach community of 
Two weeks ago, senior Katie “if all goes well, my family coastal communities of several water, food, blankets and clean breezy point, did not fare so well. murphy had been looking for-expects to move back into our states. clothing.” “my cousins effectively lost ward to spending Thanksgiving home by mid-February or early over a week later, many com-while sandy was devastating their home due to tremendous at home with her family in the march. however, it could take munities are dealing with the murphy’s community, junior flooding from the storm,” he waterside community of island much longer,” murphy said. aftermath of the storm, which Tom white’s family remained in said. “rebuilding down there park, n.y. “my aunt’s house is packed, so often includes lack of power, de-their home and waited out the will be incredibly difficult but 
but two weeks ago, superstorm my brother and i are stuck here stroyed buildings and homeless storm about 20 miles north of new yorkers are known for their sandy had not yet made landfall for Thanksgiving. it’ll be really residents. island park in garden city, n.y. resiliency. we will get through on long island, n.y., flooding nice to finally see my family on “we don’t have power, plumb-his immediate family was this no matter how strenuous the murphy’s home and causing christmas.” ing or clean drinking water,” lucky compared to the experi-toil.” damages significant enough to sandy, which began as a hur-murphy said of island park. ences of others; his home’s worst keep her family, who evacuated ricane and was downgraded to “The national guard, Fema and damage was due to a tree that see sandy PAGE 4 
Student develops application 

By BRIDGET FEENEY 
associate saint mary’s editor 
For senior monica murphy, saturday was noteworthy not only because of another foot­ball victory, but for also reach­ing a major milestone in her life with the release of an app in the iTunes store she helped write and design. 
The app, called beautiful you, was launched saturday and is designed to provide girls and young woman with motivation and inspiration for their every­day lives. in the promotional video her team made, murphy 
see app PAGE 4 


club fosters wall street networking 

By BEN HORVATH 

news writer  
The  notre  dame  wall  
street  club  is  planning  
trips to  new  york,  boston  

and chicago to allow cur­rent members to visit firms, connect with alumni and in­crease the university’s pres­ence on wall street. 
although the club is in the early stages of planning, the trips will be daily trips for small groups, and include visits to four or five financial firms in each city to form a network for notre dame students. 
senior club co-president lauren baldwin said the club wants to keep the group small in order to facilitate personal communication between group members and notre dame alumni working on wall street. 
senior shawn cappello, another one of the club’s three co-presidents, said these trips will “take the club to the next level.” 
see wall sTreeT PAGE 4 

concerT PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 men’s soccer PAGE 16 inTerhall PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What would be your boxing nickname? 

Chris Palmquist 
senior 
off-campus 

“chris - The stache - palmquist.” 
Claire George 
senior 
off-campus 

“claire - Koala bear - george.” 
Jason Popp 
junior 
duncan 
“Jason - snap crackle - popp.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Marina Seminatore 
senior 
off-campus 
“marina - shut The Front door - seminatore.” 
Paul Mundaden 
senior 
duncan 
“paul - what’s my name - mundaden.” 
Robert Blume 
senior 
off-campus 
“robert - Fat robert - blume.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

anna boarini Katie heit Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

dan brombach vicky Jacobsen adam llorens cory bernard 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
sara shoemake maria Fernandez 
Photo Viewpoint 

Blood Drive “Sexuality & Summer Service “We are Made of Star Men’s Basketball vs. 
suzanna pratt meghan Thomassen 
Rolf’s Sports Catholicism” Learning Program Stuff” Evansville Recreation Center Joyce Center Information Session Jordan Hall Purcell Pavilion 11 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Geddes Hall 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. 
Corrections 

Appointments are Speaker Dr. Terry 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Digital Visualization First regular season 
in the nov. 5 edition of The observer, encouraged. Nelson-Johnson. Speak with volunteers. Theater show. game. the results of a women’s swimming event were incorrectly reported as 
Film: “Citizen Kane” “The Servant of Two Northern Lights 5K Sean Curran and The Film: “Chicken with 
“nd 152, purdue 148.” purdue, in fact, 
DeBartolo Performing Masters” Run/Walk King’s Singers Plums” 
won the event 152-148. The observer 
Arts Center DeBartolo Performing Fieldhouse Mall/Clarke DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing 
regrets this error. 

2 p.m.-3:59 p.m. Arts Center Memorial Fountain Arts Center Arts Center Free for ND students 7:30 p.m.-10 p.m. 9 p.m.-10 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 6:30 p.m. - 8 p.m. with ID. Goldoni’s 1743 work. $15 registration. Singing and dance. $4 for students. 


concert raises awareness 

By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
members of the saint mary’s community were treated last to select songs from two different artists with personal connections to saint mary’s and notre dame on Thursday. 
Trent romens, whose sister, Taylor romens, is a senior at the college, and pat mcKillen, a graduate of notre dame, were welcomed to saint mary’s campus for a ben­efit concert held by the saint mary’s dance marathon. 
amy Tiberi, president of dance marathon, thought the benefit concert got the message the committee was trying to get across to the community. 
“The concert went well. we had a good turnout and i think that everyone who came to see the show really enjoyed both of the perform­ers,” Tiberi said. “Trent and pat both tailored their sets to our audience which was re­ally awesome.” 
Tiberi said the committee was hoping for more people to be at the show, but they were by no means disap­pointed with the crowd. 
“you always hope for the best in terms of turnout,” she said. “Trent and pat were both awesome. both have an acoustic style and they were a great way to relax on a Thursday evening for friends. it was great entertainment overall.” 


Kate Kellogg, vice presi­dent of finance for dance marathon, said the event was a success. 
“all of our proceeds went directly to riley children’s hospital and we raised about $200, not including any do­nations we received from the texting campaign,” Kellogg 
“The concert went well. We had a good turnout and I think that everyone who came to see the show really enjoyed both of the performers.” 
Amy Tiberi 
president 
Dance Marathon 

said. “we hope to continue with other texting campaigns in the future at other dance marathon events.” 
Kellogg said it was a great way to spread the word about the dance marathon and to continue to raise awareness on campus and throughout the community. 
“This is the first time we’ve done a concert in the fall and 
paid adverTisemenT 


it was a fun way to kick off our pre-registration for the marathon which is on march 23,” she said. “we have had 126 students registered thus far. moving forward, we have upcoming giveback nights at local restaurants such as between the buns and chipotle later this semester.” 
Tiberi said the committee is thinking “rock out for riley” will continue to be an annual event for dance marathon as it grows in the future. 
“we have a riley Family dinner in the noble Family dining hall coming up on nov. 30,” she said. “right now, our biggest focus is building more awareness for what dance marathon is and recruiting dancers for our event in march. we have a lot of momentum building right now and we are just trying to carry it to next semester so we can keep the ball rolling. it’s really exciting to see all the potential this year has for us.” 
Tiberi, Kellogg and the rest of the dance marathon com­mittee will be holding a tex­ting campaign during riley week in February and again on the day of the marathon, march 23. more information will be available as the dates get closer. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Furnished townhomes include: 
• 42’’ flat screen TV 
• Living and dining room sets 
• Furnished bedrooms with desks Now Leasingfor 2013-2014 

Furnished Only $475 per month per student Unfurnished Only $395 per month per student Choose from spacious 3, 4, or 5 bedroom townhomes with 1560 - 1860 sq. ft. floorplans 
. Local Ownership and Management . 
Call (574)234-2436 to see furnished model 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
423 N. Eddy Street 
www.kramerhouses.com 

*Lease must be signed by December 10, 2012. One signing bonus per lease. 
analyst highlights persecution 

By TORI ROECK 
news writer 
christians are the most per­secuted religious group in the world today, according to the international society for human rights, which says 80 percent of all religious acts of discrimination target christians. 
in his talk monday night titled “The global war on christians,” cnn’s senior vatican analyst John allen highlighted coun­tries experiencing heavy perse­cution of christians today and debunked myths about such conflicts while arguing that the american church can take a bigger role in addressing these heinous acts. allen’s address was the second keynote address of the “seed of the church” con­ference on christian martyrs. 
“we are talking in my opin­ion about the most dramatic, most compelling, most urgent christian narrative of our time,” allen said. 
allen said according to the pew Forum, persecution of christians occurs in 133 coun­tries. according to aid to the church in need, about 150,000 christians have been killed in religious conflict each year of the 21st century. 
“in the hour that we are go­ing to be together tonight, somewhere on this planet, 11 christians are losing their lives,” allen said. “This num­ber is not only astonishing but obscene.” 
one place allen described as an epicenter of christian per­secution is iraq. even though this region was an integral part of the early church, iraq’s christian population has shrunk from between one and a half and two million in 1991 to fewer than 450,000 today, allen said. 
“a church that took two mil­lennia to construct has been gutted essentially in two de­cades,” he said. 
since american intervention in iraq has exacerbated sectar­ian tensions, putting christians at greater risk for persecution, allen said the american church has an obligation to assist iraqi christians. 
“given what we profess as catholics and given the responsibility we bear as americans, the fact that the situation facing the church in iraq is not a … top-of-the-brain concern for the catholic church in the united states is nothing less than a moral scandal,” he said. “our failure to apply our last best efforts to meaningful gestures of solidarity with our brothers and sisters in iraq is quite simply inexcusable.” 

allen said most people falsely believe christian persecution can only come from regions where muslim extremism is prevalent. 
“if somehow tomorrow, radi­cal islam were to disappear, the threats to christians would hardly be gone,” he said. “what we face is a bewildering cocktail of threats.” 
some threatening groups in­clude radical hindus in india, nationalists in Turkey and even radical christians, allen said. christians can also be persecut­ed in countries such as mexico where they are the overwhelm­ing religious majority, he said. 
another myth about christian persecution is it is a political is­sue, allen said. 
“if we are going to take a clear-eyed look at the global war on christians, we cannot try to see it through the funhouse mirror of secular politics,” he said. 
most of all, allen said americans can support perse­cuted christians abroad mere­ly by being mindful of their situation. 
when he interviewed christian syrian refugees in lebanon during pope benedict Xvi’s visit to beirut, allen said they all agreed on how western christians could help them. 
“do you want to know the number one must popular an­swer by far they gave me that they said would make the most tangible and appreciable dif­ference to them?” he said. “The answer was, ‘don’t forget about us.’ ... you and i cannot solve the problems of the world. we can’t make the violence in syria go away tomorrow, but we can try to find creative ways to broad­cast the message that we have not forgotten them and that we are paying attention.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Sandy 
conTinued From page 1 
in addition to flooding from the nearby water, over 100 homes in breezy point were engulfed by a fire during the storm. The re­sult, white said, was a devastated town that “looks like a warzone.” 
power, water and heat re­turned to white’s house over the weekend. but prior to the restora­tion, white said the lack of com­munication with his family has made his week difficult. 
“insofar as i could not contact my family for the duration of the storm, i felt tense and ner­vous this past week,” he said. “i wanted nothing more than to be there with them to ride out this monster. Focusing on school this past week has been challenging because of the chaos sandy has wrought in the greater scheme of things.” 
senior Jill giunco said the most difficult part of sandy has been attempting to imagine how the affected areas look. For as long as she can remember, the colts neck, n.J., native spent her sum­mers visiting the beaches and at­tractions along the coast, only a short drive from her home. 
“i think i will be in com­plete shock to go home during Thanksgiving and see all of the changes,” she said. “The shore is totally different … it’s a weird 
App 
conTinued From page 1 
said she hopes users find the app moving. 
“your purpose is bigger than big,” she said. “when you believe in yourself, you take bold steps to­wards the life you were meant to live. i want to help empower you so you can transform your mind and understand all the po­tential you have. we hope that you will find this app to inspire you throughout your daily life.” 
murphy founded the app with sophomore meghan roder and the help of indiana state university student cory rehs, whom she met through a mutual friend. 
murphy said the project has taken nearly a year to develop. 
“my team and i spent about 11 months writ­ing encouraging content, while cory got to work on developing and designing the app,” murphy said. “a developer’s fee costs $10 0.” 
The content users pur­chase ranges from quotes to reflections to interac­tive subject matter. 
“on this app, you will find encouragement, challenges and reflec­tions, all to inspire you 
— as well as a unique in­teractive piece to help support you in your walk feeling that so much of the land­scape around the shore and the beaches i grew up going to will be so different.” 


while her home did not incur any terrific damages, giunco said the basement of her house flood­ed during the storm, and her family remains without power. 
many of her friends live on the shore, however, and the damages to their homes are much more extensive. several have lost their homes entirely, giunco said, due to either excessive flooding or fire. 
“my mom was telling me about a friend in a nearby town, Freehold, whose home had a great deal of water damage,” she said. “when the electricity finally 
of sisterhood and person­al growth,” murphy said. 
murphy said she is excit­ed her dream of creating an app has been achieved. she said she is grateful for the opportunity this app affords her and roder to reach women on a wider level than before. 
“meghan and i are two ordinary college students who had an extraordinary dream,” she said. “our app, beautiful you, al­lows us the opportunity went on for them, the damage had messed with the wiring and the entire house went up in flames.” 
although flames and floods have left areas up and down the east coast in a state of di­saster, murphy said the resi­dents are what truly compose a community. 
“my town will never be the same. The boardwalk and beach­es were completely destroyed. i never expected to see something like this,” she said. “Fortunately, my community is extremely close and very committed to re­building our town.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
to impact females on a broader level. we want to build the kingdom and felt called to team up to use the genuineness of our gifts. so many girls and women are hungry for purpose in their lives and want to be encouraged and inspired.” 
The app costs 99 cents and is now available for sale on iTunes. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01saintmarys.edu 
Wall Street 
conTinued From page 1 
The club, which was founded in 2010, currently has an es­timated 300 active members and 880 students on the email list, making it the largest un­dergraduate business-oriented club. 
Three co-presidents and 9 vice presidents make up the club structure. These mem­bers communicate with the investment office, career center, notre dame alumni and senior mentors in order 
to  form  a  network  for group  
members.  
sixty  percent  of  members  

are freshman and sophomore, which baldwin said is an em­phasis of the club. 
“we’re connecting freshmen and sophomores with firms they will potentially be inter­viewing with,” baldwin said. 
cappello said the club’s rap­id growth is proof of its neces­sary role it serves for so many students. 
“The club is a long over­due resource for students,” 
“These are skills I had to teach myself like other finance majors. ... This will give freshmen and sophomores important skills they need.” 
Shawn Cappello 
co-president 
Wall Street Club 
cappello said. “This allows for students to get internships and receive great support from notre dame alumni.” 
baldwin said weekly club meetings are divided into two halves. The first half is devot­ed to teaching financial skills and the second half focuses on interview skills. 

“This club helped me so much in the past two years,” baldwin said. “This is the rea­son i have become so involved.” 
cappello said senior mem­bers of the club conduct mock interviews to help improve underclassmen’s interviewing skills. 
The club also plans to intro­duce workshops to teach mem­
“The club is a long overdue resource for students. ... This allows for students to get internships and receive great support from Notre Dame alumni.” 
Shawn Cappello 
co-president 
Wall Street Club 

bers financial modeling skills, like comparable companies analysis, discounted cash flow, and lgo modeling skills, that are not taught until senior year. 
“These are skills i had to teach myself like other finance majors,” baldwin said. “This will give freshmen and sopho­
mores  important  skills  they  
need.”  
The  club  has  also  intro­ 

duced new initiatives in order to attract non-business major members, a group that makes up 8.3% of the group. 
“executives want a wide ar­ray of experiences,” cappello said. “we’ve gone to non-busi­ness related classes and let students know about the re­sources we have.” 
cappelllo said the club will begin its speaker series in the second semester, which will include information on topics like real-estate, private equity, and hedge funds. 
Contact Ben Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


Gameday 
conTinued From page 1 
earn another win. 
“The players’ walk from the stadium to the [guglielmino athletic complex] on saturday continues to be packed the entire length of the route with fans cheer­ing on the team,” seamon said. “part of the nd band has added another element to this tradition as they play along the walk.” 
with the high amount of people tailgating on campus saturday, there were several arrests by the indiana state excise police.  The goal of the excise police is to pre­vent underage drinking at colleges across indiana. 

Fifty-three tickets were given out for illegal possession of alcohol, and at least two adults received tickets for supplying alcohol to minors. 
in addition, notre dame security police issued eight arrests before and during the game.  The reasons range from public intoxication to 
paid adverTisemenT 
underage consumption of alcohol. 
also, a liquor store near campus is at risk after an officer claims to have seen the salesman sell alcohol to a minor. 
overall, seamon said notre dame was an electric campus full of positive energy saturday. 
“it was another great weekend for notre dame,” seamon said. “[and it was] capped off by a big win against pitt.” 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 

syrian violence escalates 

AP 
Syrian citizens evacuate a man injured by a bomb blast in Damascus, 
Syria, on Nov. 5. 


Associated Press 
beiruT — new chaos engulfed syria’s civil war as palestinian supporters and opponents of the embattled regime were swept up monday in intense fighting in damascus, while rival rebel groups clashed over control of a Turkish border crossing. 
The rare infighting — accom­panied by car bombs, airstrikes and artillery shells that killed or maimed dozens of people — heightened fears that if syrian president bashar assad falls, the disparate factions battling the re­gime will turn on each other. 
a suicide bomber detonated his explosives-laden car near an army checkpoint in hama province, killing 50 soldiers in one of the deadliest single attacks targeting pro-assad troops in the 19-month uprising, according to activists. eleven civilians died when a bomb exploded in a central damascus neighborhood, state media said, and activists reported at least 20 rebels killed in air raid on the northern town of harem. 

“it’s the worst-case scenario many feared in syria,” said Fawaz gerges, director of the middle east center at the london school of economics. “it’s an all-out war.” 
The fighting in the capital of damascus was some of the worst since July, when rebels took over several neighborhoods, only to be bombed out by regime forces days later. shortly after those battles, rebels moved on syria’s largest city, aleppo, and it has become a major front in the civil war since then. 
The attacks on the two main cit­ies have demonstrated new orga­nization and capabilities of rebel forces as well as a determination to press their uprising despite the deaths of more than 36,000 people in almost 20 months of fighting. 
when syria’s unrest began in march 2011, the country’s half-million palestinians struggled to stay on the sidelines. but in re­cent months, many palestinians started supporting the uprising although they insisted the op­position to the regime should be peaceful. 
one faction, the popular Front for the liberation of palestine­general command, led by ahmed Jibril, has remained loyal to assad. 
The popular committees in the damascus-area palestinian refugee camp of yarmouk, which are led by the pFlp-gc, said the fighting started sunday when resi­dents were attacked by gangs who claimed to include palestinians fighting the government. 
“The mercenaries who claim to have palestinians among them” tried to infiltrate the camp but were repulsed by the popular committees, the statement said monday. when the rebel attack failed, they fired mortars that killed and wounded several peo­ple, it added. 
video of the yarmouk fighting that was posted online by activ­ists monday showed destruction around the camp, with shell-pocked and scorched vehicles, and shattered windows in apart­ment buildings as residents picked through debris and shouted in dis­belief. The video was consistent with associated press reporting on the fighting in the area. 
The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

saviors in ohio 



Sam Gans 
sports writer 

i think everyone has had experi­ences that seem dire, but can be looked back at in a better light later in hindsight. 
a recent one for me occurred two saturdays ago. i woke up at 9:30 a.m. to make the hour-and-a-half-long drive to bryan, ohio, just across the border, to renew my license at the bmv before it expired on nov. 19, my 21st birthday (start thinking of birth­day gifts now, please). 
everything was going fine. i made it there safely, got my new license and hit the road, ready to head back to notre dame to watch the irish beat the sooners that night. 
of course, nothing ever goes di­rectly according to plan. about a half-mile down the road on my way back, my car slowed to a complete stop. i later found out it was a broken fuel pump that caused the problem, but i couldn’t get it fixed at that time because no mechanic was open until monday. so i was stranded without a car 100 miles east of south bend and two and a half hours northwest of my home near columbus with nobody nearby to help. 
my dad began the drive to pick me up as my car was towed to a local auto shop. i planned to simply wait out the few hours it would take for him to get there by walking to a restaurant in bryan to grab a meal and watch col­lege football. 
but in the parking lot of the auto shop, a middle-aged couple, both wearing notre dame sweatshirts, was dropping one of its cars off to be re­paired. on the spot, they invited me to their home a few miles away to have some food. we had a great conversa­tion about each other’s lives, our fam­ilies, and, of course, irish football. 
i then helped them move some fur­niture items they needed transported to a local storage space, and before i knew it, my dad was in bryan, ready to bring me back to notre dame. on Friday, one of my friends was able to take me back to bryan so i could pick up my fixed car. it, thankfully, worked well. 
after all was said and done, i’d wast­ed about eight total hours of my time 
— five stuck in bryan on saturday and three to drive there and back Friday. it also cost almost $600 to fix my car, which is exciting. 
but at least i was able to get to know some great people, which is what, in my opinion, life is all about. Thanks a lot, bob and sue. and, oh yeah … go irish. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 
Few people are aware of the fact that, when notre dame’s program of liberal studies was founded in 1950, university president Fr. John J. cavanaugh intended for the program to eventually take over the entire arts college. as the program’s founder, otto bird, once put it, “such an edu­cation aims at paideia.” This paedeia constitutes a kind of general knowl­edge “that makes not the scientist or specialist, but the fully human person.” 
bird identified man in his rational capacity as “a talking, thinking, ob­serving, measuring and worshipping animal. To educate man is to train him in the use of these various facul­ties so that the faculties can perform their work easily and well. education in this sense ... is initiation into manhood.” 
This education, however, must have a context. “man is not only a creature endowed with certain faculties. he is also a creature with a heritage... in other words, man is born into a tradition, in our case the tradition of western christendom, and, if he is to become fully himself, he must be ini­tiated into this tradition. it provides the context for the work of his various faculties.” The general program, as it was known at the time of its founding, sought to cultivate notre dame men in their rational capacity and to initi­ate them into their cultural heritage, as both catholics and as members of western civilization. 
For those of us who value or come from diverse peoples and cultures, such an education may seem jarring at first. when mortimer adler, a friend of professor bird, was asked why he didn’t include any black authors in his list of the great books of the western world, he simply responded, “They didn’t write any good books.” 

in the midst of affirmative action debates, we are reminded of past in­justices to minority groups in america and in western civilization. many consider these injustices and call for restitution. racial and cultural diversity must be actively promoted, because social structures privilege certain majorities. in an affirmative action culture, minorities will always be at a cultural advantage. i look back on my college application as an excel­lent example. 
my father’s family is from guam. That makes me half chamorro. i wrote my college application essay about that culture, although, ad­mittedly, i was largely out of touch with that part of my racial heri­tage. i walked about walking along quiet beach of rititian, pondering chamorro legends and the feet of my ancestors that walked in that sand generations before me. 
The taotaomona are the ancient chamorro spirits that protect the jungles against unwanted visitors. Four years ago i wrote, “it wasn’t the power that intrigued me. it was the ancient chamorros themselves. The sand that i was walking on was the sand that they had once walked on. They once inhabited the caves i had visited.” i provided evidence for the accusations made by those against affirmative action: i overemphasized my race in order to get an edge in col­lege admissions. 
but can racial heritage be a creden­tial when applying for college? i firmly reject the notion that racial diver­sity ought to be increased through a collective societal guilt. This fails to recognize many of the inherent goods that can come from minority cultures: intense family relations and traditions, a connection to the land and its peoples, a link between blood and language, literature, and culture. 
i am against affirmative action, be­cause i believe that my racial and cul­tural heritage is a powerful credential on its own. each racial heritage has access to intellectual and cultural resources that others ought to admire. i will promote my culture through the excellence of my work. some would answer mortimer adler by insisting he include diverse authors for the sake of diversity. i would answer mortimer adler by writing a good book, just as i once hoped, in the end, to write a good college application essay. 
i concluded this essay with words that couldn’t be written by any other. i hope they are words that could be appreciated both by my ancestors and by professor bird: “now, what do i want from college? i want college to be that walk on the beach. i want to learn about the world and, by learning about the world, learn about myself. i want to be in a place saturated with Truth, waiting for me to discover it in my education and in myself. i want to be in the presence of great people, who will help me develop through the exchange of the intellect. i want an experience i will never forget.” 
Christopher Damian is a sophomore. He can be reached at cdamian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Freshmen rushed it 
hey freshmen, 

you guys did a great job rushing the field on saturday. after a win like that, rushing the field was definitely appropriate. 
as you all know, the wake Forest game is the last home game of the season. Traditionally, the seniors rush the field after the game since it is their last home game as students. however, since you all are so experienced at rushing the field (having done it twice now, first against a lower-ranked stanford team and then against an unranked pittsburgh team) we would love it if you rushed the field after the wake Forest game, win or lose. it would certainly add to the atmosphere. 
unfortunately, you have already used up all of your field-rushes for the year, so this will have to be a senior-only affair. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“if the freedom of speech is taken away then dumb and silent we may be led, like sheep to the slaughter.” 
George Washington 
U.S. president 

Brett Straka 
senior siegfried hall nov. 5 
WEEKLY POLL 

how did you spend your extra hour from daylight savings? 
Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll by 5 p.m. Thursday 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Green loans pay for themselves 

The GreenMan 
ask the greenman 

There are few things in this world that i like more than free stuff. pens, t-shirts, packs of gum or what ever it may be. if it’s free, i’ll be getting one for me (poetry is one of my many passions). 
however, if there is one thing that i like more than free stuff, it’s free green stuff. i’m talking led christmas lights, some fresh new laboratory ovens for my chemistry ma­jors out there and compact fluorescent light bulbs for all. all of these awesome green goodies were brought to you by the green loan Fund. since 2008, money from the green loan Fund has helped purchase the nifty energy dashboard, super computers for the center for research computing and a revolutionary dry-cleaning machine for saint michael’s, just to name a few. equipment that is about as state-of-the-art 
its support has contributed to the conser-and efficient as the 1992 Ford bronco your vation of 350,000 gallons per year of water friend drove in high school. in chemistry department autoclaves, and you’re probably thinking, “but has replaced 8,950 incandescent light bulbs greenman, loans aren’t free.” well, these with compact fluorescents to date. The green loans aren’t like normal loans. green fund is a force for good around campus, a loan funded projects conserve resources, force that should be utilized more. sure we thus saving money. This money then pays have accomplished a lot, but i think we can for the loan. Trust me, money is green, and do more. i know green. unlike your student loans, 
The green loan Fund is managed by the these loans actually pay for themselves. it’s office of sustainability and is for students, like magic! staff and faculty use.  we are talking $2 sure, we have accomplished a lot.  The million dollars waiting to be spent by you funded projects are nothing to scoff at. to improve your dorms, classrooms and however, i think we can do more, so don’t labs. all you have to do is come up with a be afraid to submit an idea. i want to make proposal that will pay for itself in 10 years. it rain. i want to see the fund completely Just think, you could replace that fridge that distributed by innovative proposals. was top-of-the-line back when Tim brown it’s a new age. notre dame will soon have won our last heisman, those dull incan-a new heisman (don’t worry i went out and descent christmas lights, or that laboratory knocked on a tree) and you deserve a new, more energy efficient fridge for your dorm. 
so brainstorm some ideas, email or visit me at the office and take out the best kind of loan, the kind that pays for itself! plus, for a limited time only, every loan comes with a hug from me, The greenman, guaranteed to teach you the meaning of the universe or potentially feel semi-awkward. if that doesn’t motivate you, i don’t know what will! 
green Forever, The greenman 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Keep douglas road safe 
To the editor: 

we live at university village, home of notre dame’s graduate student families, and we are stakeholders in this university that we love. 
notre dame is proposing to expand and reroute douglas road directly in front of where we live. it is very likely that this proposal will be approved by the county. 
after hearing a presentation from representa­tives of the university on oct. 9, we had numerous concerns about how the new four-lane highway would affect us. The safety of our families is of primary importance. in particular,  we are con­cerned about crossing a busy four-lane highway without proper safety measures in place. 
on oct. 17, we met with John affleck-graves, executive vice president, and erin hoffman harding, vice president of student affairs. after assuring us that family housing is a priority for notre dame, they requested specific proposals to diminish the impact of the new road on our community. 
The proposal we submitted this week calls for measures to keep vehicle speeds below 35 mph, an important safety threshold, as well as a crosswalk with sufficient safety features. 
Further, the proposed road follows a straight line passing about 150 feet from our homes and where our children play. if the road were more curved, traffic could be naturally slowed and more green space at the village could be preserved. 
we are currently working with the administra­tion on these and other proposals and we encour­age other members of the notre dame community to be aware of, and involved in, this important project that will shape the university’s future for years to come.
    Simone and Wes Hamrick 
graduate students university village nov. 5
   Angela and Peter Campbell 
graduate students university village nov. 5 
Considering contraception 

Maggie Kakenmaster 
guest column 

Tomorrow, this country will know who will lead it for the next four years. as we will all enjoy the reprieve from mud­slinging that will shortly come, it is imperative that every person at notre dame represent our lady’s university by not just casting a ballot, but also by making an informed, educated decision on who will be granted the title of “commander-in-chief” for the next four years. 
reading opposing viewpoint columns that highlight popular blunders by each candidate terrifies me. instead of using one slip-up as a basis for a vote, i urge every member of our community to consider all of the issues at stake in this election. as a female member of the notre dame fam­ily who was diagnosed with severe endometriosis six and a half years ago, i am incredibly concerned with the role that women’s reproductive systems have begun to play in politics. 
The only known treatment for endometriosis is birth control pills. don’t believe me? Try being diagnosed with it. sure, some women choose to try lifestyle changes and may see moderate improvements, especially if their case is quite mild. however, for most, we go through an often long and frustrating trial period of medications to try to find the right one for our bodies. once you find that medication, you finally feel the freedom to live the way your friends do 
— free of a pain so severe, it often cannot even be damp­ened by vicodin. 
i am a proud catholic who has chosen to wait until mar­riage to have sex, yet my birth control prescription has earned me severe judgment from friends, nurses at st. liam’s and fellow residents of my dorm. as i see my repro­ductive organs being thrown into the election as political ping-pong balls, i have no choice but to urge my fellow students to consider the many dimensions of every issue facing this election. 
The first principle of catholic social Teaching is the dignity of the human person. This principle extends beyond the extremely tired topic of abortion and encom­passes quality of life. The dignity of the human person guarantees each human in the world a certain quality of life that is considered adequate and fulfilling. providing any other medication that treats disorders and diseases is lauded in this vein. 
so why, then, am i judged? why am i counting the days until i can go to a doctor who will not chastise me for my medication without knowing the reason it was prescribed? why am i alienated daily from a campus that claims to be so intimately tied with catholic social Teaching? 
in addition to the treatment of endometriosis that birth control pills provide, condoms are widely distributed throughout countries deeply affected by aids and other sTis to help prevent their continual spread. regardless of the reasons a person has chosen to have sex and regard­less of if that person is married, the health benefits of these methods of contraception are factual and indisputable. 
This is why it thoroughly disgusted me to see people continue to support rick santorum after his comment that contraception “is not okay” and is “a license to do things in a sexual realm that is counter to how things are supposed to be.” This view reflects an incredibly savage view of hu­manity. if the box of condoms for sale in cvs right next to the tampons changes your moral standpoint on sex, then you may not have thought it through very thoroughly in the first place. 
making contraception available to all persons (a provi­sion of obamacare) is not a mandate that all persons use contraception. if you want to wait until marriage to have sex and then choose to not use contraception, please go right ahead. no problem with me, or obamacare. if you want to have sex before marriage and use contraception, go right ahead. if you are among the many like me who need contraception to maintain a basic quality of life, by all means, head to the pharmacy. 
however, your decision to use or not use contracep­tion does not give you the right to tell others that they too should or should not, especially in the common case that you very likely do not understand the full depth of their de­cision. i am not sure the exact moment in our society when intimate partner decisions became public, but the com­plexity and intensely personal nature of these decisions undeniably disqualifies them from broad, misdirected legislation. when paul ryan chose to side with santorum on his pro-life and anti-contraception platform, his camp should have immediately lost the votes of those who pre­fer to make their own health decisions, rather than have someone else make them without knowing your personal circumstances. 
This sunday at mass, i urge you to look around. chances are, your glance will rest upon at least one person who is taking birth control pills, at least one who has used a con­dom and at least one who does not believe in the use of ei­ther. each of these people is standing there, in communion with you and Jesus christ, receiving the eucharist as you are, participating as one of god’s children and a member of the human family that works for the good of all. regardless of where you fall in these groups, try to remember that their choices are not one-dimensional. Their choices may have vastly improved their quality of life, so much so as to have allowed them to attend this university and be standing in this mass at the same time as you. 
Mary Kakenmaster is a senior. She can be reached at mkakenma@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

saturday -night -live/

Scene Staff Report 

v ideo/clintonmcdon ­come election season, snl is known to prepare some of the best sketches and imperson-alds-cold-open/1351973/ ations of our different political candidates.here are some ofscene’s favorites: 
“Undecided Voter” Tina Fey as Sarah Palin The commercial parody of the 
Tina Fey as sarah palin is one of the monumental election satires in recent history. not “undecided voter” is one of only was their resemblance uncanny, Fey was also spot on with her accent and mannerisms. the most watched clips of this surprisingly, this sketch took little writing as it is almost word for word from palin’s actual inter-election cycle because, as most view with Katiecouric.yikes. snl sketches do, it points to a 
http:// www.youtube.com/watch?v=ie-ocdexyru legitimate problem in the elec­
torate using their character wit. Darrell Hammond “what are the names of the two as Bill Clinton people running? and be spe­before he was the secretary cific.” undecided might just be of explaining, bill clinton uninformed. was actually the president and one with a bit of a weight http://www.nbc.com/satur­problem at that. like the male day-night-live/video/ oprah, we’ll leave it up to you undecided-voter/1418227/ to decide whether you like your bill skinny or curvy. snl Fred Armisen as President Barack Obama did a great job parodying the snl’s Fredarmisen aspresidentobama did an excellent job of portraying the cocky president president’s fast food habit af-right after the white houseannounced the death ofosama binladen lastmay.what is meant ter he had been seen jogging to have been a speech on immigration reform quickly turns into obama’s chance to make sure with reporters to the nearest the country knows who’s boss, busting out a cigarette, strutting around stage with a newfound mcdonalds. sense of swagger, cracking jokes, and re-establishing himself as the coolest president around. 
http://www.nbc.com/ http://www.nbc.com/saturday-night-live/video/The-situation-room-cold-open/1327352/ 




By GABRIELA LESKUR 
scene writer 

it’s that time of year again: christmas for the funny bone: the saturday night live (snl) political debates. over the years, snl has made these parodies a staple of america’s co­medic diet. Joke-deprived americans come back again and again to see their favorite (and least favorite) political figures mercilessly mocked on live Tv. luckily, one can at least have some peace of mind knowing that real politicians would never say such ridiculous things…or would they? 
see if you can decipher which of these quotes came from snl skits and which came from the politicians themselves. 
“over the last 15 months, we’ve traveled to every corner of the united states. i’ve now been in 57 states, i think — one left to go.” –barack obama on his 2008 campaign trail 
SNL or Obama? 

“when the president does it, that means it’s not illegal.” –richard nixon 
SNL or Nixon? 

“i’m not familiar precisely with what i said, but i’ll stand by what i said, whatever it was.” —mitt romney 
SNL or Romney? 

‘’i was recently on a tour of latin america, and the only regret i have was that i didn’t study latin harder in school so i could converse with those people.’’ —dan Quayle, president george h. w. bush’s vice president 
SNL or Quayle? 
‘’i mean, you got the first mainstream african-american who is articulate and bright and clean and a nice-looking guy. i mean, that’s a storybook, man.’’ —vice president Joe biden on barack obama 
SNL or Biden? 
‘’i think that gay marriage should be between a man and a woman.’’ 
—california gov. arnold schwarzenegger 
SNL or Schwarzenegger? 
‘’come on! i just answered, like, eight questions.’’—barack obama, exasperated by re­porters after a news conference. 
SNL or Obama? 
“who let the dawgs out? who, who, who?” –mitt romney, on the campaign trail 
SNL or Romney? 
answer Key: (all of these quotes are from the politicians themselves. snl’s got noth­ing on our nation’s elected officials!) 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By SEAN FITZGERALD 
scene writer 

Today is election day.  you’re on the fence. who should i vote for? if after three debates, throngs of pundits spouting out opinions, and knowledge of each candidate’s stance on the issues, you still don’t know who to vote for, then you are probably in the notre dame bubble.  instead of voting for mickey mouse, let us help you decide on a much more superficial level: fashion and style. 
dark suit, white shirt, red/blue tie, flag lapel pin, and black shoes … who are we referring to? every candidate since the in­vention of color Tv probably. so who wears it better? Former massachusetts gov. mitt romney looks comfortable in a suit, which is probably a reflection of his past stint as the ceo of bain capital.  after four years of see­ing president barack obama wearing a suit, it is hard to see him in something other than a suit. in a battle of the stereotypical presi­dential uniform … it’s a tie. (pun completely unintended.) 
The tie-breaker is going to come down to hair.  who has been applying Just for men: Touch of gray better, is it obama or romney? romney clearly has more experi­ence with his hair follicles.  no one knows quite how he gets his hair to stay in exactly the same spot without a single strand mov­ing, but he gets it done. he has a track record for keeping well-groomed hair and it shows. This stems from his natural age advantage. at the age of 65, he has years of experience over obama in the gray hair arena, but is it enough to trim away enough votes from obama to win the election? 
even though obama is only 51 years old, his four years as the president of the united states of america look as if it has shaved 15 years off the life of his hair.  being in the oval office, day in and day out, filled with stress only made the situation worse. however, despite the fact that obama had to run a country, he somehow found a way to care for that hair of his.  obama’s traditional haircut also brings out a clear advantage he has over romney: time.  do we want our future presi­dent spending countless hours getting his hair just right, or running the country? 
after all of this hard analysis, we’ve come to the conclusion that what matters is what’s inside their heads and not on top of it.  if you’ve come to this article to decide who to vote for, then you probably shouldn’t be vot­ing in the first place. 
 Contact Sean Fitzgerald at  sfitzge3@nd.edu 





By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
scene writer 

after looking at our presidential candidates’ fashion sense and skills, let’s examine their wives’ style. 
Ann Romney 

despite much talk leading up to the campaign about ann romney’s role as a stay-at-home mom, ann has a very professional style. her styl­ish business casual fashion makes her look like a broadcast journalist, always ready to be on tele­vision and looking 15 years younger. ann often wears bright, fun colors and pastels with the oc­casional intricate print, keeping her attire both simple and feminine. 
ann also dresses well for her age, sticking to short sleeves or longer and often wearing a col­ored jacket with a bold statement accessory, like a big necklace, bracelet or watch. 
she showed off her feminine work look the best at her speech during the republican national convention. The bright, fire engine red oscar de la renta dress fit nicely between the strong, symbolic red of the gop and the more casual, womanly style. a few accessories — a gold watch, gold bracelet, and peep toe black shoes — gave her another splash of style without becoming too frilly or girly. and that republican red was driven home by the matching nail pol­ish and lipstick – in case you forgot which side she was on. 
overall ann finds colorful, but conservatively cut fabrics with strong accessories that make her look both professional and approachable. 
Michelle Obama 
Four years into the public eye, michelle obama has maintained her style of classic, solid colors and had a chance to show off some more elegant, evening attire in her wardrobe. perhaps the most well known look is the high-necked, bare-shouldered dress with a string of big pearls. 
like ann romney, michelle also dresses ap­propriately for her age, in michelle’s case show­casing her youth while keeping it classy. she’s not afraid to show her arms and a bit of leg with­out showing too much, venturing more toward today’s changing fashion. 
as the first lady there have been many oc­casions for pretty, feminine, delicate looks in the evening wear department, including some flowing, form fitting dresses with more delicate and detailed accessories like earrings. she has also changed the typical straight bob for some pulled back or curly hair styles for fancier occa­sions, showcasing her feminine charm as well. 
she showed off the more youthful, femi­nine side of style at the democratic national convention, wearing a custom-made Tracey reese dress. The silky rose and gray full-skirted dress flowed beautifully around her knees, with pink pumps to go with the abstract wallpaper print and only small earrings to accessorize. 
over the past four years michelle has show­cased several different styles: from strong, sleeveless and solid to pretty, prints and pink. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

commissioners’ power needs limits 



Peter Steiner 
sports writer 
Today is one of the most im­portant days of the year. 
all the build-up, all the antici­pation is resolved today because the american people will decide who will become or remain their next president, senator, representative and even sheriff. 
an election represents the possibility of assessing the in­cumbent and choosing whether or not someone else may do the job a little better. 
while there are no true elec­tions in the world of sports, this idea of accountability resonates throughout all aspects of sports. players are held accountable for their play on the field and their actions off of it. coaches and management must answer to the decisions they make dur­ing games and in the offseason. everyone in the world of sports faces the prospect of losing their job to someone possibly better suited for the position. 
That is, almost everyone. in today’s day and age, commis­sioners wield a considerable amount of power, but they are not held to the same level of ac­countability for their decisions. and the controversies, scandals and lockouts in the last few years have brought this fact into much greater light. 
commissioners in the past certainly made mistakes, but in general, they existed in the background by letting the game itself come first. now it seems the commissioners grab the headlines every few weeks, making a significant ruling or stepping in to handle a controversy. 
To borrow from the political structure of our nation, there are hardly any checks and balances to the power of the commissioners. Just take a look at three examples of many to prove this fact. 
in each of the four leagues, owners appoint the commis­sioners. and since these owners alone can fire the commis­sioner, there is hardly any way the commissioner will leave town — even if the town is filled with angry players and fans. heck, nba commissioner david stern, nhl commis­sioner gary bettman and mlb commissioner bud selig have all served since before many of us were brought into this world. in fact, selig plans to stay on as the commissioner until 2014, at which point he will be 80 years old! 
another abuse of commis­sioner power came soon after the nba lockout was resolved last year. The lakers and hornets had all but completed a trade that would have sent chris paul to los angeles to team up with Kobe. but in 11th hour, david stern stepped in and ve­toed the blockbuster deal. The nba held this power only be­cause they owned the hornets at the time. but does that give stern the power to stop the deal “for basketball reasons,” as was explained by a league spokes­man? sure, our president has the ability to veto forms of legis­lation, but the president at least gives legitimate reasons for his action. 
Finally, the nFl commis­sioner roger goodell highlights the argument that commission­ers have excessive unchecked power. between both the player and referee lockouts, his hypo­critical stance on player safety 
(i.e. pushing for an 18-game season while trying to empha­size player safety) and the ab­solute debacle that is the saint’s bounty case, goodell’s entire tenure reflects a person with too much authority and not enough limits. 
Just take a look at the most recent news in the saints’ situa­tion. as confirmed sunday, the nFl voided sean payton’s con­tract extension signed in 2011. now, with payton’s status up in the air, goodell is the sole per­son able to rule on his contract, as the commissioner holds the unilateral right to rule on coaching contracts. after how he has handled the entire situa­tion, including passing the case off to former nFl commissioner paul Tagliabue, who can trust his decision on this matter? 
as always, it is easy to criti­cize, but much harder to pro­vide legitimate solutions. while there does not appear to be an easy solution — especially with owners exerting the greatest influence on commission­ers — there are some possible remedies. Following a busi­ness model, the commissioners could be subject to the scrutiny of a board of directors annually or biannually. The board should include members outside of ownership and player’s unions and could also include the pre­vious commissioner. 
perhaps the best solution would be for fans, players and management to elect the com­missioner. while this is unreal­istic, one thing is certain. sports fans everywhere would feel em­powered to vote for the sports commissioner of their choosing, just as americans everywhere vote today. 
Contact Peter  Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CROSS COUNTRY 

Small schools no roadblock for freshmen 
By AARON SANT-MILLER and VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writers 

not every notre dame fresh­man comes from the same type of high school. still, freshmen sydni meunier and molly seidel are go­ing through a similar experience at notre dame. both runners at­tended high schools with gradu­ating classes smaller than many freshman intro classes. 
“i think that i’ve definitely got a very different perspective com­ing from a class of 13 [students],” seidel said. “i think i learned, com­ing from such a small school, how to branch out. you can’t just hang out with the people in your class, you have to kind of get out there and meet people in sports and dif­ferent activities so you have a wid­er circle of friends. it kind of taught me to be a little more outgoing.” 
For meunier, who graduated in a class of about 75, notre dame presents an opportunity to em­brace a more outgoing side and meet new people as well, an expe­rience that wasn’t as salient for her in high school. 
“i really like how there’s always opportunities to meet new people here, where at my high school there really wasn’t,” meunier said. “i really like that aspect of it, and that you can be a new person any time you want to.” 
in high school, both runners faced similar barriers. meunier’s high school, gibson city melvin­sibley in melvin ill., did not have a cross country team. seidel, a grad­uate of university lake school in delafield, wis., had a cross coun­try team, but not a track team, something she changed in her time there. 
“i had to start the track team when i was a freshman, and my first two years it was just me on the team,” seidel said. “it was definite­ly difficult not having that sort of support, i guess, but it helped me become very independent.” 
but  for  meunier,  the  small  
school  atmosphere  fostered  a  
great deal of support.  

“being from a smaller town, ev­eryone always cared about what you were doing,” meunier said. “The coaches and everyone there was always looking out for ev­ery individual just because there wasn’t as many people to keep track of.” 
For meunier, this closeness was something she really appreciated in high school and has managed to find at notre dame as well. 
“[in high school] everyone had really good relationships with each other.” meunier said. “i think it was really great because every­one supported everyone a lot. [at notre dame] i live in howard, which is one of the smaller dorms. i think that was perfect for me, coming from a small town. i re­ally like the sense of community and i think that it’s the perfect fit for me.” 
still, both runners found their way to notre dame, which turned out to be the ideal size and fit for both of them. 
“at first, when i was starting the whole process, i didn’t really care either way about size,” meunier said. “now that i’m here i definite­ly think the size of notre dame was perfect. it’s bigger, but i really like how there’s such a feeling of community around campus.” 
For seidel, the size was a perfect fit as well, allowing for a lot of op­portunity to branch out. 
“i knew that i wanted to come to a school that definitely had a lot more people than my high school, just to get that opportunity to branch out and get to meet new people,” seidel said. “i think notre dame just seemed like a really great size. it wasn’t too big but still enough people that i was going to get to know a lot of people.” 
For both runners, a freshman class of 1,995 students is just right. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu and Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

squad earns ncaa bid 

Observer Staff Report 

no. 20 notre dame earned a berth in the ncaa champion­ship for the 20th consecutive season monday. 
The irish (13-5-2, 8-1-1 big east) will begin their quest for the pro­gram’s fourth national champi­onship Friday at alumni stadium against wisconsin-milwaukee. 
after falling to marquette in the big east semifinals on Friday, notre dame had to rely on an at-large bid. The panthers (8-8-1, 5-2 horizon) earned an automat­ic berth by winning a school-match boasting a trio of big record fifth-straight horizon east all-rookie Team mem­league championship. both bers. defender Katie naughton, teams are unseeded, as the new forward cari roccaro and for­ncaa championship format ward crystal Thomas all made only assigns seeds to the top four the team. roccaro also earned teams in each of the bracket’s the big east rookie of the year four quadrants. award, notre dame’s first since 
The irish will enter Friday’s forward melissa henderson took 


WANTED  PERSONAL UNPLANNED  PREGNANCY?  needs confidential support or as­sistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550.  
PART TIME WORK base-appt earnparttime.com  $14.25  Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to as­sist you. If you or someone you love  For more information, visit ND’s web­site at: http://pregnancysupport@ nd.edu  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
home the award in 2008. 

should they advance, the irish will face the winner of saturday’s match between georgia southern and no. 16 wake Forest. 
notre dame will host the panthers at 7 p.m. Friday at alumni stadium. 


Ramblers 
conTinued From page 12 
to score in the middle of the game. donegan was picked off in the endzone by siegfried freshman spencer Judd and a burggraf touchdown pass was called back due to a holding penalty. 
The game ultimately came down to who had the final op­portunity to score and, after several strong runs by Keough junior running back mike Fischer, donegan delivered the winning pass. 
burggraff was disappointed by the result, but expressed excitement for the future of the ramblers’ program. 
“we lose a lot of key guys, but we have a bunch of talent­ed freshmen and sophomores as well,” burggraf said. “if we practice hard, we’ll definitely be one of the better teams next year.” 
Keough’s resurgence con­tinued with the win, allow­ing the perennial underdogs a shot at playing in notre dame stadium. 
“it’s amazing,” magiera said. “There’s so much energy around Keough football.” 
no. 1 sorin will provide Keough’s next test sunday at 
2:15 p.m. at labar Field. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
Knott 14, Fisher 0 


By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
in a matchup between staunch defenses and sol­id rushing offenses, no. 3 Knott notched a 14-0 victory over no. 6 Fisher in sunday’s quarterfinals. 
Knott’s defense, which 


paid adverTisemenT 


allowed just 20 points during the regular season, shut down the green wave (3-2). 
“our defense played unbe­lievably and really dominated the game,” Knott freshman receiver griffin carroll said. 
in the first half, the Juggerknotts (4-1) and the green wave both failed to put any points on the board. 
at the beginning of the second quarter, Fisher re­covered a Knott fumble, but the Juggerknotts later atoned for their error at the end of the half with an interception at the goal line to prevent a Fisher touchdown. 
in the second half, Knott took control of the game. 
“we played really well in the second half,” carroll said. “our offense and defense dominated.” 
on the first drive of the third quarter, Knott sopho­more quarterback david Taiclet handed the ball off to junior running back Joe mcgillicudy, who scampered in from five yards out to give the Juggerknotts a 7-0 lead. 
The Fisher offense, led by junior quarterback Joe paggi, focused on its rushing attack. paggi racked up more than 50 rushing yards on the ground and, with the help of junior running back ricky neville, the green wave offense moved the ball throughout the second half, though they failed to put any points on the board. 
with three minutes left in 
the fourth quarter, Knott be­gan its last drive of the game 
“Our defense played unbelievably and really dominated the game.” 
Griffin Carroll 
Knott freshman 
with a 10-yard run by sopho­more running back mike rotar. after a few more runs, the Juggerknotts were po­sitioned at the 10-yard line. Taiclet again handed off to rotar, who rushed the ball straight up the middle for Knott’s second touchdown of the game. 

with less than two minutes left in the game, Fisher made a comeback attempt but several incomplete passes plagued the offense. 
“our pass game just never really got going,” Fisher senior captain and offensive line­man matt hart said. “we ran the ball really well, but our passing game really hurt us.” 
Knott will face no. 2 Keenan in the semifinals sunday at 1 
p.m. on labar Field. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
numerous tackles, and con-
Pangborn 
nected on touchdown passes 
conTinued From page 13 

to several different receivers, it to the stadium,” gallagher including seniors Katie ritter said. and caitlin day. 
pangborn will take the next The shamrock defense, step toward the champion-however, stole the show, as ship game when it meets no. it forced two interceptions 2 mcglinn in sunday’s semi-and a turnover on downs at final round. its own 20-yard line and did 
not allow the bullfrogs to put Contact Alex Stembaugh at points on the board. astembau@nd.edu “we had to make some ad­
justments on defense be-McGlinn 20, Badin 0 cause their offense wasn’t 
like anything we had seen 


By ALEX STEMBAUGH 

sports writer before,” badin senior cap­
tain margaret bellon said. 

no. 2 mcglinn played up to “we practiced some, but not its seed sunday, eliminating enough on defense to get no. 7 badin 20-0 in a battle of ready for their really mobile contrasting styles. quarterback.”. 
appearing in the playoffs appearing in their first for the fourth consecutive playoff game in three sea-season, defending champi-sons, the bullfrogs (2-5) ons mcglinn (6-1) started were without their starting strong and never looked back. quarterback, so junior although the shamrock of-sarah Fleming and senior 
“We had to make some adjustments on 
defense because their offense wasn’t like 
anything we had seen before.” 
Margaret Bellon 
Badin senior 

fense was penalty-ridden, it Tommasina domel shared proved successful in mov-time at the position. ing the ball down the field. “we were getting into it at mcglinn senior quarterback the end, but it was just too lit­emily golden racked up tle too late,” bellon said. “we rushing yards, as she broke just had to do the best in our situation, and we couldn’t have led a better team.” 
although badin’s sea­son is over, bellon said she was proud of her team’s accomplishments. 
“This is the first time badin has been in the playoffs for 
“We just have to keep doing what we’re doing, keep playing hard and really keep playing as a team.” 
Emma Collis 
McGlinn sophomore 

a while, and we’re proud of that since we’re such a small dorm,” bellon said. 
meanwhile, mcglinn moves on in its quest to win a second consecutive champi­onship. mcglinn sophomore running back emma collis said she the team effort of the shamrocks was crucial to their first round playoff victory. 
“we did well, and everyone contributed,” collis said. “we just have to keep doing what we’re doing, keep playing hard and really keep playing as a team.” 
mcglinn will face no. 6 pangborn in sunday’s semifi­nal round. 
Contact Alex Stembaugh at astembau@nd.edu 


Sorin 
conTinued From page 16 
ourselves on our defense, and we came out against a re­ally good dillon team that we lost to in the championship last year and shut them down, so we feel pretty good about it.” 
sorin will head to the semi­finals and look to extend its winning streak against no. 4 Keough at 2:15 pm sunday at labar Field. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu. 
Keenan 14, Alumni 7 


By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
a dramatic touchdown and a timely interception made all the difference in no. 2 Keenan’s 14-7 victory over no. 7 alumni on sunday. 
The Knights (4-0-1) and dawgs (3-2) traded punts be­fore Keenan pulled ahead with an electric 75-yard touchdown pass hauled in by junior re­ceiver Jeremy riche. before the play, Keenan and alumni had played stifling defense, batting away passes and keeping each other off bal­ance on offense. Keenan se­nior captain and quarterback andrew mcdonough credited the defense for setting up the touchdown, which set the tone for the game. 
“The defense did a good job,” mcdonough said. “They got two stops to start us off on the right foot. [riche] is a good receiver, and he ran a great route.” 
The touchdown forced the dawgs to battle from behind early. but Keenan pushed the score to 14-0 on a 15-yard pass to freshman receiver aaron digenova, and alumni failed to score in the first half. 
late in the fourth quarter, however, the dawgs started to make a comeback. alumni scored on a halfback pass to sophomore ryan buckley. alumni’s defense then forced Keenan into a quick three-and­out and got the ball back with a minute left to play. 
The dawgs then drove into the red zone with a seven-yard scramble by junior quar­terback will cronin, but the next pass was intercepted by Keenan senior defensive end alex green. The interception sealed the Knights’ victory and earned them a berth in the semifinals. 
mcdonough said Keenan was pleased with the win and is already looking forward to its next challenge against Knott. 
“First let me say that alumni is a great team,” mcdonough said. “They played a great game. we’re excited to play Knott next week, and we know that will be another hard-hit­ting game.” 
alumni junior captain Tom o’sullivan said that despite the loss, he is proud of alumni’s season and is looking forward to next year. 
“we had a great season,” o’sullivan said. “i’m proud of how we battled back in this game. we came up a little short, but we have a lot of guys returning, and i’m excited about next year.” 
Keenan will face no. 3 Knott in the semifinals sunday at 1 pm on labar Field. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
Keough 13, Siegfried 6 


By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
no. 4 Keough’s magical sea­son continues as it squeaked by no. 5 siegfried 13-6 sunday. 
both teams scored on their opening drives, but what seemed like a potential shoot­out soon turned into a defen­sive battle. The game remained tied at six until Keough junior quarterback seamus donegan threw the game-winning, six-yard touchdown pass with un­der 30 seconds left. 
“[on the last drive] we kind 
paid adverTisemenT 


of stuck with the plays that had been working in the second half, our bread and butter,” Keough sophomore offensive lineman and captain charlie magiera said. “we knew we had to get it together, and just keep doing what we’ve been doing.” 
Keough (4-0-1) had previous­ly scored on a 46-yard pass by donegan on its first drive, and the Kangaroos kept up a solid mix of passing and running all game. donegan finished with over 150 yards through the air. 
however, siegfried (3-2) quickly matched Keough’s first score as the ramblers bullied their way down the field. senior running back david whitmore tallied most of the yards, but it was sophomore quarterback nate burggraf who dove over the pylon for the game-tying touchdown. 

The ramblers were unable to return to the end zone, howev­er, because of a stifling Keough defense led by senior line­backers andy heck and robby Toole. 
“we played well, but [Keough] started blitzing their linebackers and stopping the run,” burggraf said. “They just played well, so hats off to them.” 
both teams missed chances 
see ramblers PAGE 11 



Weasels showed a lot about her team. senior receiver Kirsten groody “a lot of people thought we in the end zone. 
conTinued From page 16 
were given an easy bracket, The first half was a defensive 

after both teams traded in-that we had things handed to showdown, as both defenses terceptions, ryan marched to us,” schmitt said. “but today kept the offenses in check, pasquerilla west’s eight-yard we showed a lot of fight, and and the game was scoreless at line, but its drive stalled, and this game just showed when it halftime. the game headed to overtime. gets tight we can fight to stay on the first drive in the sec-
despite the second-half ad-alive.” ond half, walsh broke through, versity, schmitt said her team pasquerilla west advances scoring on leach’s touchdown never doubted themselves. to the semifinal round and will pass. The whirlwinds coun­
“we never got down on our-play no. 4 walsh on sunday at tered with a long drive of selves,” schmitt said. “we 4 pm on labar Field. their own, kept alive by sev­were just looking to do what eral third down conversions, 
Contact Alex Wilcox at which resulted in their sole awilcox1@nd.edu score of the day. 
“We never got down 

after the wild women scored on ourselves ... We Walsh 12 Welsh Family 7 again to retake the lead, welsh were just looking Family tried to rally, but the 

By GREG HADLEY 

to do what we sports writer whirlwinds turned the ball over after some confusion 
needed to do and 

in a close contest, no. 4 about the correct down. it got done.” walsh pulled out a 12-7 vic-“everyone on our sideline tory over no. 5 welsh Family was sure it was third down,” 
Meghan Schmitt 
on sunday. groody said of the play. “it 
Pasquerilla West senior 

both teams relied on a pass-we needed to do and got it heavy attack and mixed in “penalties and close calls three-yard line as regulation 
“It’s sad as a senior 

done.” runs by their quarterbacks. 
were a big part of this game,” time expired. The purple weasels needed in the end, a 25-yard run by 
... It’s still sinking navarre said. “not everything in the first overtime, two plays to find the end zone walsh senior quarterback Kat 
in that it’s all over. went our way. we just didn’t pangborn sophomore quar­in overtime, as vidal rushed leach, coupled with a pen-
let stuff like that affect us.” terback caitlin gargan con-
Still, overall, we 

for her third touchdown of the alty for unnecessary rough-while walsh survives to re-nected on a 10-yard pass to 
actually played 

day to put pasquerilla west up ness, set up the game-winning 
main in the playoffs, welsh gallagher for a touchdown. 19-12. score for the wild women (5­
well.” Family’s season is over. The wildcats needed a 2). leach completed nine of 
“Coming in, I 
“it’s sad as a senior,” groody 
Kirsten Groody 

touchdown to extend over-her 15 passes and threw for said. “it’s still sinking in that 
knew it was a 
Welsh Family senior 

time, but an incomplete pass two touchdowns, one of them it’s all over. still, overall, we 
really big game 

on fourth and goal from the to senior receiver shannon actually played well.” 
for the seniors. 

one-yard line sealed ryan’s Fleming. was hard because we came navarre said her team’s fate. The whirlwinds (4-3) were out expecting third down, our performance bodes well for 
We all wanted to 

“we expected all along that able to move the ball effec-play call was for third down it as it continues through the 
play well since it 

it would be a really competi-tively through the air, as se-and then all of a sudden it was playoffs. 
could be their last 

tive game, since we knew we nior quarterback victoria fourth.” “we were a very balanced 
game.” 

could play with the best teams, moreno completed 10-of-15 on the opposite side of the team today,” navarre said. and overall, i think this was a passes. in the end, however, field, walsh senior cornerback “both offense and defense 
Mary Gallagher 

great season,” pillai said. moreno connected on only lindy navarre had a different stepped up when we needed 
Pangborn freshman 

schmitt said the ugly win one touchdown pass, finding perspective. it. we’re going to need that go­ing forward.” The chaos responded with a paid adverTisemenT 
walsh will play no. 1 three-yard touchdown run by pasquerilla west in the semi-Kelly to tie the game again. finals sunday. The chaos got the ball to 
start the second overtime, but Contact Greg Hadley at pangborn sophomore safety ghadley@nd.edu andrea hawkins intercepted 
Kelly’s first pass. The phoxes Pangborn 18, Cavanaugh converted their opportunity, 12 as gargan made another pass 
to gallagher for the game-

By ALEX STEMBAUGH 

sports writer winning touchdown. Kelly said the chaos took 
in a game filled with heart the close, season-ending loss and intensity down to the very pretty hard. end, no. 6 pangborn eked out “we played our hearts out an 18-12 victory over no. 3 tonight,” she said. cavanaugh in double over-despite the defeat, Kelly time sunday. said she was pleased with 
“This game was really ex-the positives of cavanaugh’s citing,” pangborn freshman season. receiver mary gallagher said. “This group is a lot more “coming in, i knew it was a dynamic than in years past,” really big game for the se-Kelly said. “injuries in the niors. we all wanted to play middle of the season took well since it could be their last our whole receiving line out, game.” but our underclassmen really 
both teams got off to slow stepped up, so there is hope starts, as suffocating defen-for our program … This game sive pressure on both sides really showed the strength of stifled the offenses in a score-our intramural program. as less first half. intense as we get, in the end 
The second half opened on it’s not just about the dorm ri­a different note, as pangborn valries. what matters is play­(5-2) rushed for a touchdown ing your hardest, even if you from 12 yards out on its first lose. a lower seed can beat an possession. cavanaugh senior upper seed any day.” quarterback rosemary Kelly pangborn’s celebration will answered back with a burst be short-lived, as the focus through the pangborn defen-shifts to its game next week. sive line and a 60-yard run “we’re looking forward to it, to tie the game. The chaos and hopefully we can make (5-2) mounted a final drive but they were stopped on the see pangborn PAGE 11 



hodan has had the benefit 
Hodan 
of playing alongside a corps 
conTinued From page 16 

of experienced players. a few other schools but ulti-“They’ve been a big help,” mately i knew notre dame he said of the upperclass­was the right fit for me.” men. “They’ve taught me 
hodan has fit into the irish how to play to the style of lineup as the only freshman notre dame and they’ve to see time this year. having also been very supportive played in all 18 of the sea-and talked to me on the field 

“[The upperclassmen have] been a big help. ... They’ve taught me how to play to the style of Notre Dame and they’ve also been very supportive and talked to me on the field and made sure I am where I am supposed to be on the field.” 
Patrick Hodan 
freshman midfielder/forward 

son’s contests, hodan has and made sure i am where made one start. with only i am supposed to be on the two sophomores — mid-field.” fielder nick besler and hodan was in all the defender max lachowecki — right places saturday in having made starts this year, the quarterfinals of the big east championships, when he delivered two goals and one assist in notre dame’s 4-2 victory over syracuse. after scoring his first colle­giate goal in a 2-0 win over michigan state on sept. 14, hodan has become an im­portant piece of an irish of­fense that ranks sixth in the nation with 2.44 goals per game. 
now only one game away from the big east title game, hodan and the irish will travel to harrison, n.J., to face top-seeded connecticut on Friday for the right to battle for con­ference hardware. 
“we are all very excited but we are taking it one game at a time and right now we are focused on connecticut,” hodan said. 
spoken like a true veteran. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


Champions 
conTinued From page 16 
calendar. The irish opened the season against then-no. 21 duke and also squared off with no. 2 akron. notre dame handed the Zips their only loss of the season in a 3-1 victory sept. 9. 
The irish are battle-tested and battle-ready, thanks to a for­ward-thinking approach from clark. The 12th-year coach em­phasizes improving against the best competition as opposed to padding the resume with blow­out wins over inferior teams. 
They’re built when you emerge from a grueling set of road matches against top-25 teams both with success and room for improvement. in an eight-day span the irish faced no. 12 louisville, no. 22 indiana and no. 6 connecticut all away from the comfy confines of alumni stadium, where notre dame went 8-0. The result was an im­perfect 1-2 mark, but the irish have improved and are currently riding a 6-1-1 streak since the loss to connecticut on sept. 29. 
They’re built when you learn to overcome adversity. notre dame suffered the same dev­astation twice when senior co-captain and midfielder michael rose tore his acl in the preseason, mere weeks before senior midfielder adam mena went down with the same injury in the season-opener. 
but the irish have responded with stellar efforts from play­ers from all classes. seniors like midfielder dillon powers, defender grant van de casteele, forward ryan Finley and goalie will walsh have provided lead­ership and production. Juniors such as forward harry shipp, goalie patrick wall and defend­ers luke mishu and andrew o’malley have been stout. sophomore defender max lachowecki and sophomore midfielder nick besler have started all 18 games after barely playing as freshmen. speaking of rookie seasons, freshman midfielder/forward patrick hodan has appeared in every game and is second on the team with six goals and 17 points. 
They’re built when you per­form exceptionally when the spotlight is brightest. The irish needed a win against then-no. 3 marquette on oct. 24 in the penultimate regular season game. The golden eagles led 1-0 at halftime, but notre dame charged back by netting three goals in less than seven min­utes to defeat another robust opponent. 
They’re built when you piece together a dominant defense. The irish were inex­perienced along the backline after the graduations of aaron maund, greg Klazura and michael Knapp. but van de casteele, mishu, o’malley and lachowecki have jelled in front of walsh and wall to form a defense that has held opposing teams to zero or one goal in 13 of 18 games. walsh and wall have each made nine starts and 

paid adverTisemenT allowed just eight goals apiece and three members of the back four — van de casteele, mishu and lachowecki — have started every game and contributed two key goals. They’re built when you embrace a game-by-game ap­proach, which the irish have done at the behest of clark. such a mindset is critical in the post­season, when each game is win or go home, when each game is the most important to date. championship teams are built beginning at the end of the last season and through the ncaa tournament. The irish have been on the as­sembly line the whole year and are now ready just in time for the real test: the ncaa tournament. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



paid adverTisemenT 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

Across 32 Giraffe’s cousin 1 Course in the 34 Snowmobile part 
biology dept. 
37 New York 5 Prize won by singing groupObama and that lastCarter performed in
10 Pickle containers 14 Rogen of 2007 
“Knocked Up” 41 It’s “the word” 15 Strong adhesive 42 Ability 16 Black cloud or 43 Digital camera 
black cat, to mode 
some 44 Reminder of an 17 Do-it-yourselfer’s
activity old wound 19 Spanish 45 Tot’s enclosure 

sparkling wine 48 Suffix with Kafka 20 Came next or Zola 21 Compares (to) 51 See 23-Across 
23 With 51-Across, 52 Come together nitpick … or a 
55 Preparing to hint to 17-, 37­drive, with “up”and 60-Across 59 Half-pint 25 Affirmatives 60 Forum cheer 
26 Turns down 62 Govt. meat­
29 Last word of stamping org.

“For He’s a JollyGood Fellow” 63 What “O” stands 
31 Altogether it’s for in the worth the most magazine bonus troops in business Risk 64 Knock for a loop 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
65 Son of John and Yoko 
66 “GoodFellas” Oscar winner Joe 
67 Gulp from a 
flask  
Down  
1  ___ Stadium  
(Big Apple tennislocale)  
2  Vegas gas  
3  Dinero  
4  dispensersBar habitué’s  
5 6 7  order, maybe Replaceable partof a phonographAntonym: Abbr. Blowhard’s claim  
8 9  Interstate signVega’sconstellation  

10 Big name inunderwear 
11 Pile up
12 Show with skits 
13 Alternatives to buttons 
18 Contract negotiators, forshort 
22 Critic of the selfless 
24 Weathercaster’s pressure line
26 Chicago mayorEmanuel 
27 Jacob’s twin 
28 Unwilling tobudge
29 Place for a facial 
30 Short albums,for short 
33 “___-Tiki” 
34 With 57-Down,memorable “Seinfeld” character, with“the” 
Puzzle by Kristian House 

35 Charlie Brown 47 Two-dimensional 54 Superman toy that’s often measure costume part“eaten” by a tree 48 Hosiery shades 56 “Vidi,” translated 
36 Steel component 49 Drunk 38 Show host 50 Post-lecture 

57 See 34-Down 
session,
39 ___ culpa 
informally 

58 Pitcher Maddux 
40 TV’s Clampetts, 
51 Ones named in with four Cy
e.g. 

a will Young Awards 
44 Mideast bigwig 

53 Woodworking or 46 Nutlike Chinese metalworking 61 Fond du ___, fruit class Wis. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay.Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 



LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | rago & paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kevin Jonas, 25; Tatum o’neal, 49; bryan adams, 53; art garfunkel, 71. 
Happy Birthday: put creativity and effort into your domestic life. make a move or fix up your digs. encourage harmony in your home and with the people you love most. attitude will determine what you achieve and how well you are received. change is within reach if you quickly take care of pending legal and financial matters. your numbers are 4, 9, 13, 25, 29, 33, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): getting involved in activities or events that interest you will broaden your plans for future development. love is in the stars. enhanc­ing the relationship you are in or looking for love at networking or community events will be fruitful.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t allow personal issues to interfere with your productivity. Focus on what’s expected of you. don’t lose sight of the long-term effects you will have on those you work with if you don’t pull your weight. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): get involved in an organization or an event that brings you in contact with interesting people who share similar goals. Think out­side the box and contribute your ideas in order to reach a much larger audience or goal. love is highlighted. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): older and younger people may cause problems, but if you set rules and timelines to be met, you will keep everyone moving along and accomplish what you set out to do. consistency coupled with creativity will bring good results. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t worry too much about what others do, say or think. you can expect to feel stifled at home and in your personal life if you cannot find a way to step away from your responsibilities and enjoy socializing with friends. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): put pressure where needed in order to reach your goals. don’t put up with anyone who is irresponsible or overreacting to a situation that needs to be dealt with swiftly. excess is the enemy, so keep your life and what you do simple and manageable. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you cannot control every situation you face, but you can opt to say “no” to anyone who puts you in an awkward situation. com­munication, travel and expanding your knowledge and interests will lead to an interesting connection and proposal. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a serious look at where you are personally and professionally and make a decision that will help push you closer to your goals. look for an unusual way to market or develop an idea you have. discipline will pay off. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make improvements at home that will help ease your stress and improve your lifestyle. don’t let your temper be what stands between you and someone or something you need in order to excel. compromise will be necessary. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): discuss issues you have with partners, colleagues or someone who has something unique to contribute to your plans. advancement will be yours if you show your strengths and your ability to work without supervi­sion. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t judge others, or you will end up being judged. it’s important to show discipline, but at the same time, enjoy what’s being offered. a commitment or contract will lead to prospects that will provide you with ad­ditional perks.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): calm down and enjoy life. Taking on too much or being excessive in any way will limit what you are capable of obtaining. an imagi­native plan coupled with a little determination will result in greater cooperation and good results. 


Birthday Baby: you are versatile, creative and serious. you are an explorer. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish get ready for Big East semifinals 
Freshman aids experienced squad 


By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 
on a team buoyed by veter­an leadership and dominat­ed by experienced players, irish freshman midfielder patrick hodan has found a spot among the upperclass­men. after helping propel no. 5 notre dame to the confer­ence semifinals saturday, hodan’s spot on monday was the same as that occupied by most freshmen: the one car­rying the equipment. 
not exempt from the uni­versal rookie duties, the youngster from brookfield, wisc., has six goals and five assists on the season and is second among all irish play­ers with 17 points. 
hodan’s success in his rookie campaign can largely be attributed to the talent around him, the freshman said. 
“it’s pretty easy when you have the players around like we do,” he said. “i mean, we have such great players [and] each person is able to do their job.” 
in his senior season at marquette university high school, hodan scored a school-record 45 goals and contributed 10 assists, num­bers that earned him recog­nition as a national soccer coaches association of america all-american and the 2012 gatorade wisconsin player of the year. having carried into notre dame (14­3-1, 5-2-1 big east) such acco­lades, among others, hodan said he has improved signifi­cantly this season. 

“it’s been a fun year and i’ve been able to better my­self in practice and learn from the upperclassmen,” he said. “i think i have improved in almost all the areas. The coaching staff and everyone else on the team has helped me improve as a player.” 

however, the transi­tion into college soccer is not without its difficulties, hodan said. 
“There is a pretty big tran­sition from high school into college,” he said. “The speed of play is a lot faster and peo­ple are a lot stronger so you have to get used to the pace of the game and just develop and adapt.” 

although he grew up in the vicinity of marquette, hodan did not consider becoming a golden eagle. while he did consider other schools, hodan said he was confident in his final decision to come join the irish. 
“i was very excited to come to notre dame because of the academics and athletics and just the atmosphere of notre dame,” he said. “i looked at 
see hodan PAGE 14 

Irish en route to Championship win 



Mike  Monaco 
sports writer 
They are blueprinted in the summer, manufactured throughout the preseason and the regular season, fine-tuned in the conference tournament and tested in the ncaa tourna­ment. championship teams are built through months of assem­bly, and the irish are ready to prove they have one. 
it’s not easy to construct a championship-caliber team, but notre dame (14-3-1, 5-2-1 big east) has done so. 

They’re built when you score 44 goals during the season, the second-highest total under irish coach bobby clark. Four of those goals came in the high-stakes big east championship quarterfinal saturday against syracuse on the road. Ten more of those goals came during a pivotal two-game stretch dur­ing which the irish battled a pair of conference opponents at alumni stadium. notre dame punished pittsburgh with a 7-1 dismantling oct. 3 in a possible trap game before downing then-no. 3 georgetown 3-0 just three days later. 
They’re built when you couple a never-ending gauntlet of top non-conference opponents with the rigors of the big east 
see champions PAGE 14 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

weasels advance to semifinals 

 By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
no. 8 ryan pushed no. 1 pasquerilla west to the brink sunday, but the purple weasels survived the test, de­feating the wildcats 19-12 in overtime. 
ryan came ready to play, scoring on its second drive of the game on a nine-yard touchdown pass from senior quarterback maya pillai to senior receiver amy Jurvis. ryan’s fast start caught pasquerilla west (7-0) off-guard, purple weasels senior captain meghan schmitt said. 
“it definitely was a fight all the way through.” schmitt said. “we say we’re always ready for anything, but we did not expect this much of a challenge from them.” 
despite its early struggles, pasquerilla west remained resilient. after giving up the first touchdown to ryan (4-3), the purple weasels defense shut down the ryan offense for the rest of the first half, aided by two sacks by schmitt. an 11-yard touchdown run by pasquerilla west sophomore quarterback lauren vidal late in the first half tied the game at six. 
after ryan went up 12-6 midway through the second half, pasquerilla west got the ball back and promptly marched down the field on a seven-play, 60-yard drive that ended in vidal’s second touch­down run and tied the game. 
see weasels PAGE 13 
MEN’S INTERHALL 

Otters dominate Big Red 

By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 

in the past two seasons, no. 1 sorin and no. 8 dillon have met at notre dame stadium in the championship game, splitting the series with one win apiece. This year, they faced off earlier in the post­season, and the otters (5-0) took home the 14-0 victory sunday to keep their unde­feated season alive. 
both defenses held strong in the first quarter, but the big red (2-3) blinked first in the second stanza, giving up an 11-yard rushing touchdown and subsequent two-point conversion to sorin senior captain and running back ryan robinson. The otters led 8-0 going into halftime, a manageable deficit for a dillon team missing three de­fensive starters, dillon junior captain and quarterback Kevin Fink said. 
“i thought we came out and played really physical,” Fink said. “we had guys playing in positions for the first time this year, but they came out and did it, playing hard and play­ing until the final whistle.” 
mental blunders were the story of the second half as both teams fumbled on their first possessions and sorin was whistled for three penal­ties in a single drive. one of those infractions called back a touchdown, the second time an otters mistake took points off the board. 
“[we need to work on] men­tal mistakes,” robinson said. “we made a lot of dumb pen­alties and turned the ball over, but we answered really well from those, so we’re hap­py about that.” 
The otters rebounded from those errors, scoring a second touchdown on a 23-yard pass from senior quarterback Ted spinelli to robinson to take a 14-0 lead. 
with less than five min­utes remaining in the game, dillon’s comeback attempt ended with an interception by sorin freshman linebacker galvin loughran. 
“[The interception] re­ally put us in a bad position, so the loss falls on me,” Fink said. “we had some oppor­tunities, but at the end of the day, sorin is a great football team.” 
robinson contributed 118 total yards of offense to lead his squad into the semifinals, and he said the otters feel confident after keeping the big red off the scoreboard. 
“[This shutout] is big,” 

see sorin PAGE 12 



AUGUST 11, 2012 

paul ryan, house budget chairmain, named mitt romney’s vice presidential candidate. 
AUGUST 27 - 30, 2012 

romney and ryan nominated as president and Vice president, respectively, at the 2012 republican national convention in Tampa, Florida. 
SEPTEMBER 3 - 6, 2012 

obama and biden nominated as president and Vice president, respectively, at the 2012 democratic national convention in charlotte, n.c. 
OCTOBER 3, 2012 NOVEMBER 6, 2012 
First presidential debate at university of election day denver in denver, colo. 
OCTOBER 11, 2012 

Vice presidential debate at centre college in DECEMBER 17, 2012 danville, Ky. electoral college formally elects president and 
Vice president. 
OCTOBER 16, 2012 
second presidential debate at hofstra university in hempstead, n.y. 

JANUARY 20, 2013 
Inauguration day 
OCTOBER 22, 2012 
Third presidential debate at lynn university in boca raton, Fla. 


Early voters play role in presidential, local elections 

Associated Press 
columbus, ohio — ever urgent as the clock ran down, barack obama's and mitt romney's teams pressed vot­ers monday to get to the polls while thousands who were al­ready there waited in long lines for their final chance to avoid the election day crush. 
"I thought I'd come today to beat the rush tomorrow," 24-year­old britnee luke, a romney sup­porter from columbus, ohio, said in a line where she had stood for more than an hour monday morning. "oh, well." 
That line — more than 1,000 murmuring voters winding in a maze through a former depart­ment store on columbus' west side — was just one of the many scenes where some of the 2012 presidential campaign's final acts were playing out across the country. 
For a race viewed as neck-and­neck nationally, that transition from a focus on early votes to the arduous final task of mobi­lizing millions for election day is meaningful. although the campaigns have prepared for both phases of voting, obama is viewed as having the early-vote edge overall while romney's team is confident it will receive more election day votes. 
ohio is a particularly piv­otal state for both candidates. Virginia, Florida and Iowa are crucial, too, and volunteers scoured neighborhoods and looked for stragglers they might convert. 
The lines in the former Kohl's store moved at a healthy clip, al­though most voters who arrived by 9 a.m. esT didn't walk out into the traffic-snarled parking lot for at least an hour. John laudeman shuffled along, looking up at the ceiling in boredom: "I'm trying not to think about it." 
while it was all business in columbus, in cleveland the at­mosphere was festive. 
music blared across the street from the county elections board office. hot dog vendors, cam­paign button sellers, even the rev. Jesse Jackson sought to woo the crowd. The line curled around the corner until the ear­ly voting deadline arrived at 2 p.m., when security turned away latecomers. 
deVonte anthony, a student at cuyahoga community college and an obama backer, fought the traffic and a snarled parking lot near the elections board to vote early with five family mem­bers. "we all came out today so we don't have to wait in line tomorrow." 
more than 30 million people had already voted in 34 states and the district of columbia, ei­ther by mail or in person. 
both candidates were staging last-minute events in ohio, urg­ing voters in person — and in obama's case, with rocker bruce springsteen — to vote. 


Indiana republicans fight for ‘red’ seat in senate 
Senate seat may be only hope for Democrats in Hoosier State as tight race between Mourdock, Donnelly ends 
Associated Press  mourdock  stated  during  a  approach  during  an  appear- 
televised  oct.  23 debate that  ance monday with former u.s.  
IndIanapolIs  — pregnancy resulting from rape  sen.  evan  bayh and congres­ 
republicans working to  move  is “something god intended.”  sional candidate scott reske at  
Indiana firmly back into the  democrats  have  pounced  on  a democratic campaign office  
land of red states after its 2008  the comments, using them to  in Fishers.  
support  of  democrat  barack  shore up their arguments that  donnelly beamed as  bayh  
obama hope to have plenty to  mourdock is an extremist who  sang his praises, but he de­ 
celebrate Tuesday, but a  u.s.  will reject bipartisanship.  murred when asked how confi­ 
senate seat that has been a  mourdock,  who  has  criti­ dent he was of victory.  
lock for the gop for nearly four  cized  donnelly  for  votes  on  “I run every race like I’m 10  
decades could be the night’s  issues ranging from the auto  points behind,” he said.  
spoiler.  industry bailouts to the federal  The senate race — which saw  
presidential  candidate  mitt  health care overhaul, has tried  more  than $25 million spent  
romney  and  gubernatorial  to move past the furor over the  on ads by outside groups and  
hopeful mike pence are heav­ comments even as democrats  the campaigns — has largely  
ily favored to win, and the  have worked to keep them front  overshadowed Indiana’s other  
gop is looking for more suc­ and center of the final days of  races, which include all nine  
cess down the ballot — includ­ the campaign.  congressional seats, 25 state  
ing  a  possible supermajority  “I’m feeling fantastic. all re- senate seats and all 100 house  
in the Indiana house, which  ports  from  around  the  state  seats. but that race brought na­ 
would allow  republicans to  are very positive as far as vot­ tional attention to a state that  
conduct business without any  er turnout,  republicans are  otherwise  might  have  APbeen  
democrats present.  very excited,”  mourdock said  Republican senatorial candidate Richard Mourdock addresses his overlooked as the presidential  
but the hotly contested u.s.  monday while greeting diners  campaigns bypassed  supporters at a rally in Indianapolis on May 8. Indiana  
senate race between tea party- at the First watch restaurant  in favor of battleground states  
backed state Treasurer richard  in Indianapolis.  such as ohio.  Indiana  republican  party  for  republicans and a good  
mourdock and democratic rep.  “we’re thrilled at the mes­ obama’s slim victory over  chairman eric holcomb said  night for hoosier taxpayers.”  
Joe donnelly could provide a  sage of getting this economy  then-contender  John  mccain  monday  he’s  counting  on  a  obama’s 2008 state chair- 
stinging upset for the party  turned around and being the  in 2008 now appears to have  good  showing  Tuesday,  but  man, Kip Tew, blamed the pres- 
while granting  democrats a  51st vote to repeal obamacare,”  been a fluke more than a sea  he is still fighting as though  ident’s performance in Indiana  
rare foothold in this conserva­ he said.  change. obama was the first  democrats could make gains.  this year on factors ranging  
tive midwestern state.  despite  Friday’s  howey/  democrat to win the state since  “we want to make sure we  from the sluggish economy to  
The  race,  which  had  been  depauw  poll  that  showed  lyndon Johnson in 1964, but  don’t put the cart in front of the  republican gov. mitch daniels,  
a statistical dead heat, was  him up 11 percentage points,  romney appears poised for  a  horse,” holcomb said. “I sus­ who took credit for jobs saved  
turned  on  its  heels  when  donnelly took a more cautious  potential double-digit victory.  pect it’s going to be a good night  through federal aid.  



SMC students attend Obama rally in Ohio 

By ANNA BOARINI 
news writer 
early monday morning, most saint mary’s students were getting ready for class or sleeping in. seniors callie brown, paige daniel, Karla moreno and london lamar were headed to ohio to see president barack obama speak at nationwide arena in columbus.The students found out about the rally from a friend’s Facebook post. 
“we went to the website and researched the tickets,” lamar said. “This was a decision lit­erally made at 12:30 at night.” 
lamar said the group each received a ticket to the rally after signing up online. They headed to ohio at 6 a.m. monday morning. 
“when we first got there, we were so excited and didn’t know what to expect,” she said. “The line to get in was like a mile long and we didn’t think we were going to get in.” 
according to the website for the nationwide arena, the structure can hold about 20,000 people for a concert. lamar said there were about 18,000 people who showed up to hear obama speak. 
“we ended up having front-row seats in our section,” she said. 
along with the president and music stars, columbus mayor michael b. coleman and democratic senator sherrod brown of ohio spoke at the rally. 
after a break, bruce springsteen and Jay-Z per­formed, and then the presi­dent spoke. 
“bruce springsteen had nothing but good things to say about the president,” she said. “he first campaigned for him in 2008 and said he is a great person. [springsteen] advo­cates for [obama].” 
springsteen performed a few songs, and sang a song he wrote about the campaign, lamar said. 
after springsteen, lamar said Jay-Z “rocked the house.”“he rapped about six or seven songs,” she said. “he rapped his song ‘encore’ and said it was for another four years for obama.” 
lamar said Jay-Z paro­died one of his own songs for the campaign’s benefit. “he rocked the house and sang his song ‘99 problems, but he said ‘I got 99 problems and mitt [romney] ain’t one,’” she said, laughing. 
Finally, obama took the stage, lamar said.according to the associated press, obama said about the per­formers: “They tell the story of what our country is, but also of what it should be and what it can be.” 
“he talked about his poli­cies, how he will continue to advocate for education and how everyone deserves a fair chance at education,” lamar said. “The president talked about how in different states there are different opportuni­ties and struggles. he got the crowd riled up.” 
lamar said obama stressed everyone should go out and vote on election day. 
after seeing him in person, lamar said obama looked very strong going into the election. 
“he looked very confident,” she said. “There were thou­sands of [people from] ohio 


at the rally … It was pretty much full and he is leading in ohio. [lamar and her friends] are hoping for the best.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

congress projected to remain divided 
no matter who wins the inclined to reach across 


Associated Press 
presidency — president the aisle. republican sen. 

washIngTon — a barrage barack obama or republican olympia snowe of maine de­of negative ads, more than $2 mitt romney — the nation’s cided to retire earlier this billion in spending and end-chief executive will be deal-year, frustrated with the par-less campaign stops all come ing with a congress no closer tisan gridlock in congress. down to this: americans like-to bridging the ideological new england’s three oth­ly will elect a congress as di-chasm and showing no incli-er gop senators are new vided as the one they’ve been nation to end the months of hampshire’s Kelly ayotte, ranting about for two years. dysfunction. Tea party num-maine’s susan collins and 
In Tuesday’s voting, bers are certain to tick up in massachusetts’ scott brown, republicans are poised to the senate with republican now an underdog against hold the 435-seat house, with Ted cruz heavily favored in democrat elizabeth warren democrats expected to gain a Texas and deb Fischer look-in a race for the late sen. small handful of seats at best ing to grab the nebraska seat. edward m. Kennedy’s seat. from roughly 60 competi-In the house, the move-“The few republicans who tive races but fall well short ment that propelled the gop are in office in new england of the net 25 needed for the to the majority in 2010 will be are an endangered species,” majority. house speaker John even more emboldened even said veteran democratic boehner, r-ohio, is poised to if a few of the big-name tea strategist dan payne, who wield the gavel again. partiers lose. is working for independent 
senate democrats are sal russo, head of the Tea angus King. “Their party has likely to maintain their party express, likened the shifted so far to the right.” nowhere near a filibuster-inauguration, congress will narrow advantage as two group to the anti-Vietnam King is favored to win the proof majority. have to decide what to do republican candidates’ war movement of the late three-way race for snowe’s “neither candidate will about a $607 billion so-called clumsy comments about 1960s and early 1970s that he seat. be able to claim that voters fiscal cliff: the combination rape and abortion could cost said remade the democratic a bloomberg poll in endorsed a clear and spe-of expiring bush-era tax cuts the gop Indiana and damp-party. he envisions the same september found that 55 cific plan for balancing the and automatic, across-the­ens its prospects of winning with the gop. percent of americans said budget because neither of board spending reductions missouri — two major road-“In the sense that the anti-congress will continue to them offered such a plan,” to domestic and defense blocks in the republican path war movement brought out be an impediment no mat-said John J. pitney, a profes-programs. economists warn to the majority. millions of people that had ter who is elected president. sor of american politics at that no action will plunge 
republicans hoped the not been involved in politics Just 32 percent said congress claremont mcKenna college. the country into another math would work in their fa-and they became engaged in would get the message and republican strategist Terry recession. vor — democrats are defend-a material way,” russo said in work together. holt said a newly elected “at the end of the day, you ing 23 seats, the gop 10 — but an interview as he headed to democratic strategist steve president who has the will have so many ticking time solid democratic recruits what he expects will be a vic-mcmahon said he worries could put their mark on poli-bombs,” said gop strategist and the close presidential tory party for cruz in Texas. that with a divided congress cy and make some significant John Feehery. “having just a race, added to the gop can-The democratic party, he “we can probably expect hy-changes. complete gridlock is not an didate stumbles may ensure insists, has never been the per partisanship and grid-“but there is so much ideo-acceptable solution.” that nevada sen. harry reid same and neither will the lock everywhere. It seems logical division that you will congress may decide in remains majority leader. gop after the influx of tea like americans can expect have to risk your political life the lame-duck session to de­
“That’s extremely frustrat-partiers. more of the same.” to get something done in the lay the major decisions to ing for what everyone thought when the senate votes The other certainty is nei-next congress,” holt said. “It early next year, especially if was a republican advantage,” are counted, moderate ther obama nor romney is an all-or-nothing proposi-romney wins the presidency. ron bonjean, a republican republicans and democrats will have much of a man-tion by virtue of the divided but they can’t put off eco­consultant and former top from massachusetts and date based on the razor-thin nature of the country. you nomic decisions for too long. capitol hill aide, said of the montana could be gone, leav-presidential race and the have to stick your neck out if “The road to fiscal perdi­developments in Indiana and ing the chamber with just likelihood that the majority you’re to get anything done.” tion is a cul-de-sac,” pitney missouri. a handful of the lawmakers party in the senate will be weeks before the January said. 


ndsmcobserVer.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012 | The obserVer 

International students weigh in 

By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 
as america turns its focus in­ward for the upcoming presiden­tial election, the rest of the world has its eyes trained on america. notre dame’s international community bridges the gap between national and interna­tional students, balancing values developed at home with priorities studied during a young adult­hood spent abroad. 
senior lucas de la Fuente, orig­inally from santiago, chile, said the election issues are discussed differently within and outside of the united states. 
“during the debates they al­ways talked about the role of the 
u.s. as the main power of the world, and how to maintain that image,” de la Fuente said.  “For me, that’s a totally conflicting point — maybe because I come from a smaller country, a foreign country with a totally conflicting approach: how do we improve ourselves while staying in dia­logue with those around us? This is a huge shift, that the candidates took for granted in every speech.” 
although he understands other segments of the catholic church disagree, de la Fuente said his ex­periences at his holy cross high school contributed to much of his political beliefs. 
“For me it’s a logical position to be in favor of the socially disad­vantaged, the discriminated, in whatever way,” de la Fuente said. “That’s catholicism — I under­stand people don’t think of it this way but that’s my approach to it.” de la Fuente said the chilean electorate expresses its opin­ions much more fiercely than its american counterpart. 
“The student bodies [of the uni­versities] are directly politicized, and on a college level way more leftist — with a political opinion beyond the university’s … stu­dents themselves are not as di­rectly related with politics here,” de la Fuente said. 
sophomore martin penovi orjales said he has citizenship in the u.s., Italy and argentina, but that the strongest political influ­ences in his life originate from his home in argentina. 
orjales said he is surprised by the strength of the two-party sys­tem within the united states. 
“one thing that is extremely different is that here you only have two major political parties 
— any other party that springs up is eaten up and taken into the two bigger parties after two or three years,” orjales said. “In argentina it is very easy to start a political party … we have a lot of parties in argentina, I don’t know the number.” 
orjales said hisvote was swayed by the action in each of the debates. 
“one of the major issues that I noticed was that obama seems to be more the kind of candidate who would be willing to step down from a lot of things, where­as romney has been really hard to pinpoint. That’s one thing that bothered me,” orjales said. “In the first debate [romney] abso­lutely dominated obama, but then in the next debate romney went back on a lot of things he said and obama really took a step up ... he really showed who he was in the second and third debates.” 
Junior wilm Kranz, origi­nally from wetter, nordrhein­westfalen, germany and also a 
u.s. citizen, said his european upbringing has determined his political priorities. 
“oftentimes I’m stuck between the political theory of my home country and the political theory of the united states,” Kranz said. “It’s something that I try to bal­ance out – each has its advantages and disadvantages.” 
navigating between them is all about balance, Kranz said.  Kranz said his dual citizenship allows him to vote in both countries, and he would use his vote to encour­age this balance. 
“I think in terms of conserva­tism, germany has something to learn from america: I think I would vote for a more conserva­tive agenda in europe,” Kranz said.  “even so, I would probably vote for a more liberal agenda in the united states.” 
Junior nan lan, originally from canton, guangdong, china, said she has been most struck this election season by the different levels of political engagement in china and the united states. 
“It’s actually election season in china right now, but we just don’t care,” lan said. “we already knew who would be the next president of china five years ago.” 
The definitions between differ­ent political ideologies are very different in the u.s. and china, lan said. 
“I went to a very liberal high school in china, but after I came here I realized that liberal in china means merely ‘hey I talk about politics and I sometimes say I hate the communist party,’” lan said.  “on one hand, we are all supposed to be communists anyway, on the other hand, when everything is censored you don’t want to be too outspoken.” 
lan said american patriotism starkly contrasts with the senti­ments of many chinese. 
“one thing I am really jealous of all you american folks here is how patriotic you are — I hate to say this, but I really cannot care less about politics in china,” lan said.  “now, I have realized this patriotism is largely due to de­mocracy. when you feel you are a part of something, your point of view matters, you naturally feel the responsibility behind it, and this responsibility transforms to love.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 

Study abroad participants vote from overseas 


By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news writer 

while most americans watched the presidential de­bates from their couches at home and followed live news coverage of the election this season, junior danielle dorrego has watched the 2012 campaigns unfold from across the pond. 
dorrego is one of a host of notre dame students study­ing abroad this semester, and she has faced the challenges of balancing immersion in a new culture with a civic desire to stay informed about the po­litical debates at stake in this election. 
while it is difficult to stay politically informed while abroad, dorrego said it is still possible to make becoming an educated voter a priority. 
“For the most part, I’ve been able to follow the presiden­tial debates and the issues that I found important,” said dorrego. “while not neces­sarily in real time due to the time difference, I’ve been able to watch the debates from my home in london thanks to the Internet. Finding the time to do so can get somewhat tricky, but if it’s something that is im­portant to you, as it is in my case, it’s not too difficult.” 
dorrego said it is interesting to watch the election develop from a distance, with the per­spective of another country’s media coverage. 
“I have noticed that the u.s. presidential election is a very hot topic in british media,” dorrego said. “many differ­ent publications have covered election news in detail, ex­plaining the positions and policies of each candidate and giving future predictions of this election’s worldwide effects.” 
Junior Victoria Kay, who is spending the semester in Toledo, spain, said she has not been able to follow the election as closely as she would have liked. 
“I have only followed the elections minimally since I’ve been abroad,” Kay said. “ It’s hard to keep up unless I make a concerted effort to read arti­cles online. I was able to stream the second presidential debate online in between my classes, so that was a quick and helpful way to get information from the two candidates. 
“I have been limited in my ability to discuss the election with other american voters, however — I would have liked to have had more conversa­tions with my parents and friends without the distance and large gap in time zones.” 
Kay also said the interna­tional interest in this elec­tion has changed the way she thinks about the voting process. 
“studying abroad in spain has inevitably given me a larg­er worldview, though I have only been here for a couple months, and this has impact­ed my thought process as I was making a decision about my vote,” Kay said. “I have learned a lot about politics and society in spain, and the differences I have found between here and the u.s. are astounding.” 
Kay said her host family’s interest in her vote was strong enough to make her uncom­fortable at times. 
“my host mom has asked me about what I think about the elections as well as about what my family at home thinks and she even asked me who I vot­ed for in the end,” Kay said. “I found that a little unnerv­ing because I can’t quite tell whom they would prefer to be our next president and I didn’t want to put a political rift be­tween us.” 
Kay’s host family listens to radio shows that discuss the election, and her history pro­fessor has said spaniards like to be very informed about what is going on everywhere in the world, she said. 
“my professor mentioned that most spaniards prefer president obama because he is more open-minded in interna­tional relations, so I found that to be a very interesting opin­ion,” Kay said. “he suggested that in comparison [to the spaniards], most americans seem to be very uninformed in matters of international news.” 
both dorrego and Kay sub­mitted absentee ballots from their respective countries, and this is the first election in which both are eligible to vote. 
“although I am abroad, I think it is important that my voice is heard,” dorrego said. “The logistics of the [voting] process were more annoying than anything else — for in­stance, I had to mail in my bal­lot before the last presidential debate occurred in order to ensure that it would arrive on time.” 
Kay also said the absentee ballot process was a “nui­sance” but worth the effort. 
“I used the website that was emailed to the study abroad students through oIs, so I simply had to enter my name, state, and county of residence and it directed me to the pages I needed to print and mail into the headquarters of my county back home in order to submit my absentee ballot,” Kay said. “I opted to receive my ballot via email because I was afraid it wouldn’t be mailed to me in time. This, however, meant I had to fax it back to the u.s. which cost me a pretty penny because the fax rates from here to the u.s. are very expensive.” 
This logistical challenge was not nearly enough to deter Kay from participating in her first presidential election, she said. 
“I debated not casting my vote because it was too expen­sive, but then I realized it was ‘vale la pena’ as we say here in spain, ‘It was worth it,’” she said. “I figured the 18 precious euros spent on submitting my vote was more valuable than spending them on more frivo­lous things such as gelato or those boots I’ve been eyeing.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 






