The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 59 | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Return to Grace 
Professor reflects on lighting No. 1 sign atop former residence hall during 1988 season 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
news editor 
in the midst of a surprising undefeated football season and notre dame’s rise to the no. 1 spot atop the national college football polls this weekend, hopeful irish fans continue to draw parallels be­tween 2012 and 1988, the last time the team won a national championship. 
but when it comes to light­ing the no. 1 sign atop grace hall, that parallel is not merely speculative. 
design professor robert sedlack was a resident assis­tant in grace during his se­nior year and the 1988 football season, and he played a cru­cial role in making the irish’s no. 1 ranking known to all of campus. 
“it just so happened that i was an ra on the 11th floor of grace and had the keys to the penthouse,” he said. “so light­ing the sign fell on my to-do list, and i had to go up in the morning and the evening to turn it off and on each day.” 
sedlack began his lighting duties after the then-no. 2 irish jumped ahead of then-no. 1 ucla following a 22-7 victory against navy and the bruins’ upset loss to washington state. he said he and his friends be­gan preparing to celebrate that change shortly after it happened. 
“once it looked like we were going to achieve that no. 1 ranking, some buddies of mine built the sign out on the roof of grace,” sedlack said. 
They took a page out of the book of Fr. gerry lardner, grace hall’s rector at the time and a notre dame gradu­ate student during the team’s 1973 championship season. The tradition of the no. 1 sign began after that season, when it was initially placed outside moreau seminary, university architect doug marsh said. 
“Fr. gerry was a great rector and we had a good group of ras that year, so he wanted to kind of redo [the sign] and so the guys rebuilt it,” sedlack said. 

but the relighting of the sign came as something of a sur­prise after the first three me­diocre seasons sedlack and his 1989 classmates experienced. 
“our freshman year was so awful … a guy once offered my roommate $10 for a pair of tickets he tried to sell for the last game of the season,” sedlack said. “you fast forward 
see sign PAGE 4 



website fosters faith 
By TORI ROECK 
news writer 
The notre dame alumni association launched a new website, Faithnd, to extend the university’s spiritual resources beyond campus in an effort to fill a void for religious guidance online. 
spirituality program direc­tor angie appleby purcell said the site is available to people of all faith traditions interested in exploring catholicism, even if they are not affiliated with the university. 
“as a catholic university steeped in rich tradition, with wonderful resources of faculty, staff, students and alumni trying to live the university’s mission in terms of how to be a people of faith, a catholic community into the world, we want to be able to 
see FaiTh PAGE 4 



professor honored  with ibm award 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
news writer 
earlier this month, ibm awarded its watson solutions Faculty award to notre dame computer science professor nitesh chawla. 
The ibm award recognizes the work of faculty on the forefront of 


big data and analytics and apply­ing that work to social problems as well as incorporating it into cur­riculum, according to a university press release. 
chawla, who currently serves as director of both the interdisciplinary center of network science and applications and the data, interference, analytic and learning lab, was honored for his work with the re­search of big data and healthcare innovation to examine possible so­lutions for the future of the health­care field. 
“big data is becoming a corner­stone of the modern economy,” he said. “a lot of my research has been around data, data mining, machine learning, network sci­ence and applications, and so my watson Faculty award was a rec­ognition of that work and a recog­nition of the curriculum.” 
chawla created a multidisci­plinary course at notre dame called healthcare analytics, which 
see award PAGE 4 



Gameday celebrates seniors 
By ANNA BOARINI 
news writer 
in less than 24 hours, a 38-0 walloping of wake Forest on senior day and losses by the top-2 football teams in the country led the irish to a perfect 11-0 record and their first no. 1 national ranking in the bcs era. 
all this excitement com­bined with unseasonably warm weather made for “an incredible weekend,” said mike seamon, director of game day operations. 
“The perfect weather, senior day and the undefeated record all contributed to it being one of the best home football week­ends anyone can remember,” he said. “it was a wonderful oppor­tunity for the notre dame fam­ily to celebrate both the seniors and the special season we have been experiencing.” 
seamon said this was one of the most special senior day cel­ebrations in recent memory due to strong student support for the football team and its seniors. 
“it was evident that the stu­dent body shares a mutual, spe­cial affinity for the team, and vice versa,” he said. “couple that with an undefeated record, and it made for a particularly special and memorable day in notre dame history.” 


see gameday PAGE 4 


book PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 usc PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What did you do on Saturday night? 


Ben Yao 
freshman 
duncan hall 

“i don’t remember much. The details are foggy. but there was a pineapple involved.” 

Blanca Foncillas 
junior 
mcglinn hall 

“celebrating with my fellow notre dame friends.” 

Daniel Delaney 
sophomore 
dillon hall 

“i ran with my roommates to stonehenge, sang the fight song, sang the alma mater, etc.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Jason Popp 
junior 
duncan hall 

“shouted ‘we’re no. 1’ not nearly enough times.” 

Ray Zhao 
freshman 
duncan hall 
“i slept.” 


Thor Herkes 
freshman 
Fisher hall 

“me and Fisher hall took over stonehenge.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
kristen durbin matthew deFranks Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
dan brombach Joe wirth adam llorens brian hartnett 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
laura laws maria Fernandez 

Photo Viewpoint 

Women’s Basketball Men’s Basketball Thanksgiving Dinner Men’s Hockey Football 
kirby mckenna meghan Thommasen 
Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center North Dining Hall Compton Family Ice Los Angeles Coliseum Joyce Center 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 12 p.m.-3:30 p.m. Arena 8 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. ND vs. George New items on buffet 7:35 p.m. ND vs. USC 


Corrections 

ND vs. Mercer Washington menu. ND vs. North Dakota. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Film: “His Girl Friday” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Performing 


Thanksgiving Break 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8 p.m.-9:35 p.m. 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Free with student ID. 
we can correct our error. 



Students inspire women through online forum 
By MADDIE DALY 
news writer 
several women at saint mary’s have embraced their unique role as women’s college students in spreading the word about wom­en empowerment worldwide by contributing to the smart girls group (sgg). 
sophomore victoria wilbraham, who serves as sgg’s vice president and director of communications, said the group is an online community de­signed to connect, inspire and empower girls on an interna­tional level through writings in a daily blog, The loop, and a monthly magazine, The smart girls guide. 
“our motto, ‘be smart, share smarts,’ encourages girls to share their passions with oth­ers,” she said.  “we do this through The loop and The smart girls guide, both of which are fully run by high school and college girls.” 
wilbraham said sgg cur­rently involves 110 girls from 15 colleges and seven different countries in its online empow­erment work, but the organi­zation is looking to expand at saint mary’s, notre dame and beyond. 
“we will be launching a cam­pus program in January,” she said. “The campus smart girls will be a place where girls from different colleges around the country can come and share what is going on at their school.” 
senior monica murphy began writing a monthly column for the online magazine, titled “dear smart girl,” after wilbraham and sgg founder emily raleigh, two of her close friends, shared their passion and vision for sgg and its global mission with her. 
“i quickly came on board and currently write inspirational columns for the magazine,” murphy said. “i want girls to em­brace all that they were created to be and to understand that they are invaluable.” 
Freshman keeley Frost, who heads the saint mary’s campus program blog and will be fea­tured on the cover of the maga­zine’s november issue, said the blog covers happenings at saint mary’s, notre dame and south bend. 
Frost said becoming involved with sgg and its emphasis on confidence, strength, cour­age and power helped her learn about herself as well as the abil­ity of young women to empower each other. 
“girls have great potential to serve the world and make a dif­ference in the lives of all other women around us,” she said. “by joining the smart girls group, i realize the confidence i have in my life and how i can use it to in­spire others. 
The sgg’s online media offer­ings serve to inform members of the saint mary’s commu­nity who may not know about the organization or its mission, Frost said, and all belles are invited to help strengthen the 
college’s  involvement  in  the  
sgg community.  
“The  magazine  comes  out  

monthly with amazing articles written by other smart girls, so this campus chapter is a great way to get the word out about sgg to the saint mary’s commu­nity,” Frost said. “i am so excited for it to develop into something extraordinary.” 


murphy said she is proud to be involved with an organiza­tion that strives to promote the power of women. 
“it is a true blessing to be a part of a ministry offering hope and light,” she said.  “Join us on this incredibly journey as we transform the minds and lives of girls across the world.” 
as part of the group’s involve­ment guarantee, wilbraham said all girls interested in becoming part of sgg are welcome to do so and can contact her at toriwil­braham@thesmartgirlsgroup. com for more information. 


Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 

group creates book for community center 
section of sibc, a subset of with four other students in help students get experience on now.” 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 

news writer the popular business club the project group and visits in different aspects of busi-The group has already sub-that focuses on social and the robinson center once or ness, archbold said, and this mitted the first draft of the 
members of notre dame’s community issues. twice a week to work with the particular project blends the book to createspace, amazon. student international business “i started it to bring the children on the story. global development subset com’s online publishing plat-council (sibc) are collabo-learning center a sustainable “There are about 20 children with marketing concepts. form, which they will use to rating with the robinson revenue source while at the between the ages of 7 and 11, “[The project] started un-self-publish the book. community learning center of same time empowering the and we separated them into der the global development “once the stories and il­south bend to create and mar-children there by giving them groups to come up with ideas subset, and then shifted to lustrations were finished, the ket a children’s book that will a way to make a difference,” and then write and illustrate be more marketing based,” stories were typed and the bring sustainable income to the archbold said. “The idea for a the story,” archbold said. “we archbold said. “within sibc, illustrations were scanned,” center. children’s book project made wanted all of the stories to the global development as-archbold said. “we digi-
The project, called “every sense because the children at be the children’s work, so we pect used to be international-talized the book into a pdF child has a story,” was start-the center can write and illus-tried to lead them in the right based projects, but now it’s and createspace reviews ed by senior i-ming archbold trate it, and we can market it direction and then give them more about nonprofit social it and makes sure it meets in the spring of 2011 as part and get profit for the center.” freedom.” entrepreneurship concepts, printing specifications, so of the global development archbold said he works a major goal of sibc is to so that’s what we’re focusing once we meet the formatting 

requirements we should be paid adverTisemenT 
able to begin printing right away.” 
while the initial publish­ing process will require sibc funding, the long-term goal will be an entirely self-sus­tainable product that will benefit the center for years to come, archbold said. 
“The project fits well with sibc’s mission statement, which is ‘peace through commerce.’ if you look at peace in a structural sense, like helping the needy with­in each society and work­ing to ending that structural inequality in america, you can see how this benefits the community in that way,” he said. “we’re trying to give kids of a lower socioeconomic status reasons to be proud of themselves, and show them that they can accomplish things on their own and set high expectations for their lives.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 



Faith 
conTinued From page 1 
provide good quality resources and enrichment for the spiritual and faith journey that we all are on,” purcell said. 
Faithnd offers a variety of informative services, such as video reflections on liturgical seasons and scripture passages, online courses and opportuni­ties to ask questions about the catholic faith, purcell said. 
one of the best ways to stay engaged with one’s faith is to sign up for the daily email news­letter that includes the day’s gospel reading, a written reflec­tion on it, a short prayer and a profile of a saint, she said. 
“[every morning] i grab my iphone on the side of my bed, and i read the reflection and the prayer and the saint of the day, and many people start their day with that first step,” purcell said. 
more than 9,000 people have signed up for the daily email subscription thus far, purcell said. 
another important feature of the website is the ability to submit prayer requests at the grotto, a service that existed even before Faithnd but is now streamlined. The alumni association received more than 24,000 of these requests last year, purcell said, and they still manage to light a candle for ev­ery one. 
“The grotto is a significant part of the spiritual imagination of people who are formed here,” she said “They can’t be there in that sacred space, but they certainly can allow us who are here on campus to pray on their behalf.” 
while most of these services fall under the sphere of prayer, the Faithnd website includes three other sections: “live,” “serve” and “explore.” 
The “live” section provides monthly themes for reflection on how to live a life of faith, purcell said. 
“This month, because we’re very mindful of november be­ing all saints [day] and remem­bering holy people in our lives, we’re focusing on the call to ho­liness, not from the standpoint of ‘i have to be a mother Teresa,’ but, ‘in my daily life, how am i called and how can i make deci­sions based on how to be a bet­ter, more holy person?’” she said. 
The “serve” section focuses on ways to give back to the commu­nity of faith, purcell said. 
“[it] talks about how through our faith we are called to ser­vice through catholic social Tradition, what does that look like, how are we at notre dame forming leaders for the church?” she said. 
The “explore” section ad­dresses the intellectual aspects of faith, purcell said, and it strives to answer the questions, “how do we explore the catholic intellectual side of what we offer on campus, and how can that inform us as we move forward in life?” 
purcell said Faithnd was developed after months of re­search on the spiritual desires of the notre dame community, es­pecially those of young alumni. 
“This came about ultimate­ly from our constituency, our larger notre dame family, inter­nally and externally, as to where notre dame could help them in continuing to grow in faith,” she said. “it was really a mandate from our constituency and our notre dame family.” 
Those interested in exploring the resources available though Faithnd can visit faith.nd.edu 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 

Award 
conTinued From page 1 
uses his research ideas in part as a basis for the curriculum and in­cludes majors from multiple col­leges, he said. 
“it may be one of the more mul­tidisciplinary courses on campus,” chawla said. “students from each discipline then are focused on how we can think about data and healthcare, how data in health­care can lead to more personalized healthcare, more cost-effective healthcare.” 
The south bend healthcare community has been responsive to the research and the class, chawla said, and many local leaders in the industry have worked with the class, including executives from michiana health information network and the chief information officer of beacon health system. 
chawla said this kind of outside interest and involvement is impor­tant to the class as well as demon­strating why ibm was so interested in his work, especially with the cre­ation of its new initiative, the arti­ficial intelligence machine known as watson. 
ibm popularized its watson machine by pitting it against top human competitors on the televi­sion game show “Jeopardy!”, but its capabilities are much greater than that, chawla said. 
“[The class] is sort of emblematic of the work that watson is doing. The machine is a cognitive system which brings in data and infor­mation from a variety of sources, processes it and delivers it in a vi­able form,” chawla said. “That’s what we are trying to create in the classroom environment, where you have people from different disciplines, different backgrounds, different expertise working on projects together and then deliver­ing it in a way that would make a difference to healthcare.” 
The class is split up into several groups that work on semester-long projects with the goal of operat­ing at the intersection of medicine and big data research, chawla said. project topics include studying patient scheduling issues, read­mission rates and global health partnerships. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 


Gameday 
conTinued From page 1 

The ideal conditions brought a perfect storm of about 115,000 fans to cam­pus on gameday, seamon said, and pregame attrac­tions on campus also drew in large numbers of visitors Friday and saturday. 
“The Friday tunnel tour had a season high of more than 5,300 visitors, and the pep rally was standing-room only,” he said. “The player walk on saturday was absolutely packed the entire way from the guglielmino [athletics complex] to the 

Sign 
conTinued From page 1 

to senior year, and tickets for the miami-notre dame game at home were going for $1,000 each. 
between his freshman and senior years, sedlack saw receiver Tim brown win the heisman Trophy his ju­nior year and leave the team somewhat in limbo when he graduated. 
“i think we thought we’d be ok [without brown], but i don’t think anybody thought we’d be the best in the coun­try,” sedlack said. 
“you could make the argu­ment that my classmates and stadium.” 
seamon said the lopsided final score helped minimize traffic on campus. 
“post-game traffic was much better and more man­ageable this weekend given that the game was clearly decided early on in the con­test,” he said. 
according to a press re­lease, the indiana state excise police arrested 36 people on 49 charges this weekend. officers appre­hended 32 minors on 39 charges, including illegal possession or consump­tion of alcohol and the pos­session of a false form of identification. 
Two men were arrested af­ter a large fight broke out in the c1 parking lot. The men were preliminarily charged with battery, public intoxi­cation, battery on law en­forcement and resisting law enforcement. according to the press release, one excise police officer was injured while breaking up the fight. 
officers also arrested two adults on drug possession and paraphernalia charges. 
arrest statistics from notre dame security police were unavailable at press time. 
now, as the stadium moves into its offseason, seamon said he and his game day operations team will work to make the notre dame football experience even better for next year. 
“as has been our typical practice the past few years, we will spend the next sev­eral weeks reviewing the season from several differ­ent angles and will identify how we can build upon the program for next season,” he said. 
To provide feedback on the game day experience or suggestions and comments for next season, fans can visit gameday.nd.edu. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
was a fantastic dorm with a good crew of ras, and we got along well with our rector. not unlike this year, it was a magical season.” 
marsh said the 8-foot-tall sign atop grace now remains lit so long as any irish sports team is ranked no. 1 in the nation. prior to its lighting sunday, the sign was most re­cently lit for the university’s fencing, women’s basketball and women’s soccer teams. The last time it was lit in honor of the football team was in 1993, when the irish topped the associated press poll. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

i were at notre dame dur­ing the best years for notre dame football,” he said. “our claim is that you can’t under­
“We were awful three years ago, so to suddenly have such a great team is exciting.” 
Robert Sedlack 
design professor 

stand how incredible it is to win a national champion­ship having not had a crappy freshman year.” 
sedlack said he feels this year’s team has followed a similar trajectory in its long-awaited return to national prominence. 
“we were awful three years ago, so to suddenly have such a great team is exciting,” he said. “i’m really thrilled, most thrilled for the team.” 
sedlack said he still takes pride in his former duty as an ra, bringing his wife and children to take pictures on mod Quad, telling students about his experiences and sharing photos and emails with classmates. 
“i feel proud to be asso­ciated with [lighting the sign],” sedlack said. “grace 

paid adverTisemenT 



low-level bp oil   workers indicted 
Associated Press 
new orleans — The man­slaughter charges brought against two relatively low-ranking bp rig workers in the deadly gulf of mexico disaster may be as far as federal pros­ecutors are willing to go. or maybe they intend to use the two men to work their way up the corporate ladder. 
The Justice department has said only that its crimi­nal investigation is still going on. as a result, others are left guessing about prosecutors’ intentions. 
“either there simply isn’t ev­idence that anybody higher up was involved, or the depart­ment has concluded the only way it’s going to make its case against more senior corpo­rate officers is if it charges and eventually obtains coopera­tion” from the two men, said david uhlmann, a university of michigan law professor and former chief of the Justice department’s environmental crimes section. 
a federal indictment un­sealed last week charged bp rig supervisors robert kaluza and donald vidrine with botching a crucial safety test before the 2010 drilling-platform explo­sion that killed 11 workers and triggered the biggest offshore oil spill in u.s. history. 
Two and a half years after the blast, they are the only in­dividuals charged directly in the tragedy, despite a string of government investigations that spread fault among a host of people and companies. bp agreed last week to plead guilty to charges related to the workers’ deaths and pay a record $4.5 billion. but none of the company’s onshore en­gineers or executives was ac­cused of wrongdoing in the indictment. 

shaun clarke, one of kaluza’s attorneys, said the narrow focus of his client’s in­dictment doesn’t jibe with the widely accepted conclusion that “multiple failures at mul­tiple levels in multiple compa­nies” led to the blowout. 
“it would have taken a lot of courage after spending three years and tens of millions of dollars investigating to go back to the white house and say, ‘you know, mr. president, we can’t really find a person to blame.’ instead, they decided to scapegoat two people who were just out on the rig doing their jobs,” clarke said. 
natural resources defense council president Frances beinecke, who served on a presidential commission charged with investigating the explosion and subsequent spill, said the disaster resulted from “systemic failures” that raised concerns about the en­tire drilling industry’s safety culture. 
“you can fault two people for this accident, but you cannot leave it there,” she said. “you have to look at what’s happen­ing throughout this industry.” 
That commission concluded the blowout was the product of “several individual missteps and oversights” by bp, rig own­er Transocean ltd. and ce­ment contractor halliburton, with mistakes made both on the rig and on shore. The panel also found that govern­ment regulators lacked the authority, resources and tech­nical expertise to prevent the mistakes. 
paid adverTisemenT 

GAZA STRIP 

Violence continues in Gaza 

Associated Press 
gaZa ciTy, gaza strip — israel and gaza’s hamas rulers traded fire and tough cease­fire proposals monday, and threatened to escalate their border conflict if diplomacy fails. no deal appeared near. 
an israeli airstrike targeting a gaza media center killed a senior militant and engulfed the building in flames, while gaza fighters fired 95 rockets at israel, nearly one-third of them intercepted by an israeli missile shield. 
a total of 38 palestinians were killed monday. Two more palestinians were killed in airstrikes past midnight, bringing the death toll since the start of israel’s offensive to 111, including 56 civilians. some 840 people have been wounded, including 225 chil­dren, gaza heath officials said. Three israeli civilians have been killed and dozens have been wounded. 
over the weekend, civilian casualties in gaza rose sharp­ly after israel began targeting the homes of what it said were suspected militants. Two such strikes late monday killed five people — a father and his 4-year-old twin sons in north­ern gaza and two people in the south, medics said. 
Jamal daloo, who lost his wife, a son, four grandchildren and five other members of his family in an attack sunday, sat in quiet mourning monday next to the ruins of his home, his face streaked with tears. 
“The international pub­lic opinion witnessed the facts,” he said, speaking as his 16-year-old daughter, yara, was still missing under the rubble being cleared away by bulldozers. “This does not re­quire my words.” 
egypt, the traditional me­diator between israel and the arab world, was at the center of a flurry of diplomatic activ­ity monday. egyptian intelli­gence officials met separately in cairo with an israeli envoy and with khaled mashaal, the top hamas leader in exile. 
hamas wants israel to halt all attacks on gaza and lift tight restrictions on trade and movement in and out of the territory that have been in place since hamas seized gaza by force in 2007. israel demands an end to rocket fire from gaza and a halt to weapons smuggling into gaza through tunnels under the border with egypt. 
with positions far apart on a comprehensive deal, some close to the negotiations sug­gested egypt is first seeking a halt to fighting before other conditions are discussed. They spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are in a sensitive stage. 
mashaal told reporters that hamas would only agree to a cease-fire if its demands are met. “we don’t accept israeli conditions because it is the aggressor,” he said. “we want a cease-fire along with meet­ing our demands.” 
mashaal also suggested that israel’s threat of invad­ing gaza was simply a ploy. he said israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu “is wav­ing the threat of a ground of­fensive and asking the world to pressure egypt, Turkey and Qatar, so they pressure hamas.” 
“he wants to negotiate with us under fire to impose his conditions, pretending he is acting from a position of strength,” mashaal said. 
israeli leaders have repeat­edly threatened to widen the offensive, saying an invasion is an option. israel has amassed troops on the gaza border and begun calling up thousands of reservists. 
still, an israeli official em­phasized that israel hopes to find a diplomatic solution. 
“we prefer the diplomat­ic solution if it’s possible. if we see it’s not going to bear fruit, we can escalate,” he said, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the diplomatic efforts under way. he added that israel wants international guarantees that hamas will not rearm or use egypt’s sinai region, which abuts gaza, for militant activity. 
as part of global efforts to end the gaza fighting, u.n. chief ban ki-moon arrived in cairo on monday and was to meet with israeli president shimon peres on Tuesday. 
The u.n. security council held closed-door consulta­tions at the request of russia, and ambassador vitaly churkin later accused one country of foot-dragging, im­plying it was the u.s. 
germany’s foreign min­ister was also headed to the region for talks with israeli and palestinian leaders. on Tuesday, Turkey’s foreign min­ister and a delegation of arab league foreign ministers were to visit gaza. 
hamas, an offshoot of the region-wide muslim brotherhood, is negotiating from a stronger position than four years ago, when israel launched a three-week war on the militants in gaza. at that time, hamas was internation­ally isolated; now, the muslim brotherhood is in power in egypt and Tunisia, and hamas is also getting political support from Qatar and Turkey. 
president barack obama and other western leaders have blamed hamas for the latest outbreak of fighting, saying israel has a right to de­fend itself against rocket at­tacks. however, they have also warned israel against send­ing ground troops into gaza, a move that would likely lead to a sharp increase in the gaza death toll. 
over the years, israeli govern­ments have struggled to come up with an effective policy to­ward hamas, which is deeply rooted in gaza, a densely popu­lated territory of 1.6 million. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

glorious food 
Katie Heit 
sports writer 

as the leaves continue falling and the south bend weather remembers that it is fall, not winter, i am reminded of why november is my favorite time of year. 
no, it isn’t because of the beautiful col­ors of the leaves or the brisk breeze in the air. it isn’t even because november brings a top-ranked irish football team, though watching notre dame fight for victory has definitely improved this particular november. no, the reason i love november is plain and simple — food. 
yes, i said food. Thanksgiving is only two days away and i can already taste the vast meal that will be laid before me. i’ve been looking forward to stuffed turkey, homemade cranberry sauce and fresh rolls straight from the oven. a table full of pumpkin, pecan and apple pies. a meal to be remembered dreamt of and missed for an entire year to come. a meal that will only be matched by the one i will be par­taking in next Thanksgiving. a meal that takes all day to prepare and lasts for weeks to come. a meal that has not one, but two turkeys placed upon its table. 
people scoff when they find out Thanksgiving is my favorite holiday. They name christmas, the Fourth of July, even my own birthday and ask why those days aren’t better than Thanksgiving. The an­swer is still food. while i love my grand­mother’s homemade cinnamon rolls, they don’t hold a candle to a hot, steamy roll covered in pumpkin butter. i love grilling out, but i can do that all summer. grilling is not reserved for the Fourth. as for my birthday, there’s only so much cake you can eat before you get sick. The turkey remains satisfying for weeks, the cranberry sauce will last as long as i can bring myself to preserve it and it doesn’t take much to bake another pumpkin pie to complete the meal once you’ve polished off the first three. 
There are plenty of other things i ap­preciate about my favorite holiday. i love watching football with my dad and my brother. playing in the fifth annual Turkey bowl with family and friends. hiding in my house while thousands of others battle for black Friday deals. all of these things com­plete the wonderful holiday that is the day of thanks. and i am grateful for all of these things and many more. 
when it comes down to it, though, when i think of Thanksgiving i think of food, wonderful food. i give thanks that i have been blessed with a full table and a loving family around me. more than anything, though, i give thanks for the poor turkey who gave his life for my Thanksgiving table, and for all the turkeys who have sacrificed themselves for me throughout my past 19 days of feasting. 
on behalf of all the turkeys preparing for your own feast, happy Thanksgiving and bon appetit! 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Chartering a new course 
Adam Newman 
science potentia est 

charter schools may be the most contro­versial development in american education in the past decade. with the release of suc­cessful pro-charter documentaries such as “waiting for superman” and “The lottery,” the conversation about the actual effective­ness of charter schools has been questioned as different statistics and studies have cre­ated a rigorous debate over an effort to save american education. 
charter schools are schools that are pub­licly funded but are administered by groups other than local school districts. These groups are held to accountability standards while being allowed the flexibility to ex­periment with different learning modules without needing to negotiate with teachers’ unions. many charter schools often have to rely on fundraising or donations from private foundations to make initial capital expenditures and to meet their annual operating costs. 
charter schools encompass a diverse set of innovative schools. some charter schools, such as the seed school in washington d.c., provide “24-hour” support by serv­ing as a boarding school for low income children from grades six through 12, almost exclusively african-american (Toch, 2009, p.66). many charter schools take advantage of their increased power in the contract process with staff because charter schools do not negotiate with a union. For example, the harlem success academy, a charter branch in harlem, new york has a one-page contract with few specifics as to teacher protections and allows for individual teach­ers to be fired immediately. This is com­pared to the contract in the new york public schools, which in 2010 was 167 pages, and is filled with what teachers can and cannot do during the established school hours and the established school year (brill, 2011, p.14). This allows charter schools much more flexibility to extend the school year, extend the school day and have teachers provide more support time than a normal public school. 
The authoritative study on charter schools was released by the credo group at stanford university in 2009 and covered roughly 70 percent of all charter schools students. The study revealed that 17 percent of charter schools produce better outcomes than traditional public schools (credo, 2009, p.7), 50 percent of the charter schools nationwide have results that are no dif­ferent from the local public schools and 37 percent deliver learning results that are significantly worse than public school (credo, 2009, p.7). 
while the reviews of charters from the national level may not have shown charters to be more effective than public schools, researchers have found that charter schools located in urban areas, such as denver and chicago, tend to do better than their public school peers (angrist, parag, pathak & walters august, 2011). moreover, charter schools that have been around for longer periods of time tend to be more effective. Five years is the amount of time that char­ters need to display whether or not they can be as effective, or even more effective than their local public school (sass, 2006). 
with charter schools, the policy should be clear. each charter school should be given five years to prove that they are effective. if the numbers and data do not show that it is on par or better with local competitors then it should be shut down. on the flipside, the school districts should allow the groups that run the best charter schools that are proven to be effective the opportunity to expand and take over the poorest perform­ing schools. hence, the best schools could expand and the worst would close down. 
This is an extremely pragmatic idea that would immensely benefit children, but it will never happen because of the politics in education, specifically the fight that would come from the teachers unions. The idea of a charter school coming into a public school and changing it would be seen as an “anti­union” move. it would be fiercely protested and because teacher’s unions are so power­ful at the local level, would not happen as a result. The unions would have a legitimate reason to protest, but even with a legitimate reason, doing so would be placing their interests ahead of what is best for students. This is a reoccurring theme in their pro­tests against reforms to save american education. 
in politics, there is a saying that goes “an ideologue believes what right works; a pragmatist believes what works is right.” For too long ideology has driven how america delivers education rather than what works. There are many groups that benefit from the status quo in american education, and unfortunately american students are not one of them. but by identifying the best charter schools, and allowing them to ex­pand while closing the ineffective charter school, american education can begin to improve. unfortunately, this type of change is impossible, because as too often in edu­cation, appetite and ambition prevails over knowledge and wisdom. 
note: much of the content came from a Foresight research paper . 
Adam Newman can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“i celebrated Thanksgiving in an old-fashioned way. i invited everyone in my neighborhood to my house, we had an enormous feast, and then i killed them and took their land.” 
Jon Stewart 

American political satirist 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

True Notre Dame 
dear editor, i wanted to share with you and all of notre dame a story about brian kelly. 
my co-worker’s 5-year-old daughter had to do a school report on the 100 year Flood that happened here in louisville back in 1937. in her attempt to find someone to interview, she found a 92-year-old ursuline nun. having lived through the flood, she welcomed the little catholic girl in for her ques­tioning and interview. 
when they were all done, she and her mother were getting up to leave and the discussion of football came up. Turns out the sister is a huge notre dame fan. she told them to hold on a second, and went to her study and pulled out a media guide. stuffed inside was a letter, and a signed picture, made out to her, signed by brian kelly. coach kelly also included a beat miami pin. 
according to the nun, before the miami game, she had written a letter to coach kelly, not asking for an autograph, but instead, to tell him to “run the ball, stop throwing it.” she said she watches every game and paces the floor with her walker. she has a kelly green rosary — a notre dame one — that she prays with every game. 
i thought the story was touching in a couple ways. This is true notre dame, first in the fact that a 92-year-old woman paces with her walker and rosary in hand. i can relate to this, since my grandmother is 96 years old, and still watches notre dame football (and basketball) every weekend. if she could pace the room, i am sure she would. 
The second touching part of this story, is that brian kelly took the time to respond to her. maybe there is more to the story, and maybe she is a booster, or something. but for kelly, in the throes of the season, to take the few minutes to write her a response letter and send her some notre dame gear defines the man. i don’t see nick saban, lane kiffin or urban meyer doing something like that. 
This is notre dame. go irish! let’s go boys, finish what you started. beat usc! 
Michael Driscoll 
class of 1999 louisville, ky nov. 19 
Thanks for reporting 
i want to thank anna boarini for her nov. 14 article, “lecture explores church teachings.” i am grateful for her fair reporting of my st. mary’s college “Theology on Fire” series lecture “The church and same-sex attraction” which i gave the previous night. 
in spite of concerns voiced by some present and former smc faculty mem­bers that my presence and presumed views would be too “controversial” and “isolating,” i found the larger than usual audience of mostly students both attentive to and respectful of what i said. i am grateful that — at least among the smc students and others who attended — “diversity” and “tolerance” also included me, a person with whom some members of the audience apparently came prepared to disagree. 
as a saint mary’s dad of 1999 and 2007 (and a notre dame dad of 1997 and 2005), i am pleased that undergraduate students at saint mary’s (and notre dame) are still being taught to see, hear, think and decide for themselves what is true! 
Philip Sutton 

class of 1973 south bend, in nov. 19 
UWIRE 

US plays big, silent role in Gaza 
The Oracle Editorial Board 
The oracle 

Though the rockets and bomb blasts are almost 7,000 miles away, the 
turmoil in gaza is not far removed from u.s. interests. in fact, with its 
economic heft, the u.s., as a seemingly silent superpower, is a larger 
player in the chaos ensuing now than perhaps either israel or the gaza 
strip. 

but as israel has intensified air strikes and bombs in retaliation to 
hamas-launched rockets from gaza, the u.s. response has spoken as to 
what side the american taxpayers will be supporting. 
while president barack obama has said it would be “preferable,” ac­
cording to the associated press, for violence to not exist, he has consis­
tently defended israel’s “right to defend itself.” 
but according to the new york Times, gaza health officials have re­
ported at least 600 injuries and 70 deaths since wednesday and israel 
has reported 79 injuries and three deaths, the human rights violations 
being brought upon the people of gaza by israel are not things the u.s. 
should endorse. 
while the initial violence of the rocket launch is not condonable, 
israel’s response — the response sponsored by the taxpayers of america 
— is certainly not either, and coupled with the history of aggression and blatant disregard of civilian, women and children’s lives, the u.s.’s strategic oblivion is one that goes against the very value of democracy that allied israel with the u.s. in the first place. gilad sharon, the son of former israeli prime minister ariel sharon, called for the “flattening of gaza” in an op-ed written for the Jerusalem post. 
“we need to flatten entire neighborhoods in gaza,” he wrote. “Flatten 
all of gaza. … There should be no electricity in gaza, no gasoline or 
moving vehicles, nothing.” 
The u.s. has a strong, vested interest in israel — an interest so expan­
sive (and expensive) that it is willing to overlook important aspects of 
democracy, such as human rights, to secure its own best interest in an 
utterly undemocratic process. 
israel has received about $115 billion in u.s. aid, and continues to 
receive about $3 billion a year, making it the largest recipient of u.s. 
aid since world war ii. according to a congressional research report 
prepared for the u.s. congress, the bush administration approved a 10­
year, $30 billion package for israel’s Foreign military Financing grant, 
which obama has continued. 
The very iron dome system, the system that has intercepted 245 rock­
ets for israel since the recent burst of violence, is largely funded by the 
u.s, which provides an additional $70 million for it per year, according 
to cnn. 

while it is incredible that this technology protects israeli civilians, 
does the u.s. government value their lives more than palestinians? 
Though a 2011 gallup poll found that 63 percent of americans supported 
israel over palestine, it is worth a closer look as to whether cozying up 
to israel solely because of its “democratic” roots is worth the fiscal and 
humanitarian costs. 
a democracy is not simply electing leaders, and by turning a blind eye to these injustices, the u.s. is further distancing itself from other middle eastern nations at a time in which diplomacy is most needed. 
This article originally ran in the Nov. 19 edition of The Oracle serving the University of South Florida. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Sean Fitzgerald 
scene writer 

whether you are just looking for something warm to wear when south bend’s weather gets its act to­gether and reminds us that the weather here really is pitiful, or you’re gearing up for an ugly sweater party, ugly sweaters are about to make an entrance back into the public scene.  when we were little children, the ugly sweater from aunt mary that our mothers made us wear was absolutely dread­ful.  it was especially bad if your whole fam­ily had matching ugly sweaters, hopefully no photographic evidence exists.  however, col­lege changes people. students are ready to take risks and experi­ment.  some may won­
der if that sweater was really that ugly or now realize that the man makes the sweater, the sweater does not make the man. 
For the sartorially inclined in our midst, the ugly sweater is an affront to style.  it is a crime of aesthet­ics.  however, i am here to argue that the ugly sweat­er has an important place in the annals of american history, nay world history. 


you may be wonder­ing, what makes the ugly sweater such a wonderful piece of at­tire?  let me enlighten you.  First of all, the ugly sweater is a celebration of the season.  it is a cel­ebration of the change from Fall to winter.  it is the perfect transi­tion piece from falling leaves to falling snow.  it is only worn during the happiest time of the year, the season of joy, and, of course, presents.  and, who doesn’t like pres­ents? That’s right, only the grinch. 
secondly, who doesn’t love a giant snowflake pattern with a bunch of random geometric shapes all in symmetry? it is the equivalent of the grown up version of making a 
paper snowflake, but you can wear it.  To find and wear such an ugly sweater shows that you have con­fidence and no matter what you wear you can rock it.  immediately upon wearing such a sweater, you become that much more attractive, nigh irresistible. caution: women may flock to you; i am not liable for any injuries and/or deaths occurring as a result of your impressive sense of style. 


Finally, ugly sweat­ers are so comfort­able.  They are the male equivalent of yoga pants, or so i’ve been told.  it is as if you were encom­passed by the warm­est of furs, in sweater form.  people less for­tunate than yourself look on in envy and wonder, “how is he able to cut down that tree with such ease and comfort?” you reply “my power lies in the odd-looking reindeer on my chest.” onlookers stare in awe. people ask, “who is that guy?”  i claim he is a man of the season. a man of style. 
Contact  Sean Fitzgerald at sfitzge3@nd.edu The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



By ANKUR CHAWLA 
scene writer 

as everyone’s favorite festival of food is almost upon us, i felt it necessary to go through some of my favorite foods to eat on Thanksgiving day. 
10 – Turducken: This week’s episode of chopped featuring Thanksgiving-themed ingredients had Turducken as one of the mystery basket ingredients and i was intrigued. apparently, it is chicken stuffed in duck stuffed in a turkey. my mind was blown. 
9 – pizza: every family has experienced the disaster Thanksgiving where the turkey catches fire or falls flat on the floor. also for those of you stuck on cam­pus for the holiday, pizza is never a bad alternative. 
8 – chinese Food: always the contrarian, i have been known to partake in alternative Thanksgiving feasts flocking to the one type of restaurant open in my hometown, the local chinese place. nothing says happy Thanksgiving like kung pao chicken. 
7 – mashed potatoes: There is not much one can say about mashed potatoes, and yet everyone knows of its deliciousness and the fact that it is a turkey din­ner staple. be sure to make it fresh though, a boxed mash is a disappointing mess. 
6 – gravy: without gravy, the potatoes, stuffing, turkey and biscuits create far too dry a dish. while some may say cranberry sauce solves this, the diversity of flavors, particularly one more compatible with potatoes is certainly a necessity. 
5 – stuffing: while not my personal favorite side, most people i have talked to have expressed their opinion that stuffing is the best part of Thanksgiving. i don’t see it, but i guess if you don’t have a duck and/or chicken to stuff a turkey with it works. 
4 – cranberry sauce: i do not understand why cranberry sauce is not used on everything i eat, but someone declared that Thanksgiving is the one day a year where it is on my dinner table. i’m thankful for that. 
3 – pie: one of my favorite desserts, the beauty of pie is the countless varieties and seasonality of flavors. The best types for Thanksgiving include pumpkin, pecan and sweet potato. pecan is my personal favorite if anyone is feeling gen­erous and wants to share. 
2 – Turkey: it’s just not Thanksgiving without turkey. it’s definitely the “key” to a great Thanksgiving dinner. 
1 – biscuits: one of the most underappreciated parts of a Thanksgiving din­ner, biscuits not only serve as the carb base of the meal but also the perfect breading for sandwiches made from leftovers. not to mention they are delicious when done properly. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 
LAURA LAWS | The Observer 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
scene writer 

with an entire year of waiting after the last film, the finale of the Twilight saga, “breaking dawn part 2” was finally released in theaters at 10 p.m. on nov. 15 (instead of midnight nov. 16), much to the relief of pop culture across america. after the dramat­ic/traumatic ending of “breaking dawn part 1” with the violent “birth” of edward and bella’s baby, weak and clumsy bella is at last a powerful vampire. 
The strength in this last installment, which received better reviews than any of the previous movies, is its artistic choices in changing the novel into screenplay. “breaking dawn part 2” glosses over some of the lengthy parts of the book — such as bella’s descriptions of her new life as a vampire — to get straight to the action. The choice of shots conveys her thoughts without lingering too long on her. another one of these good translation choices was changing renesmee, edward and bella’s vampire/human child, from a baby to ele­mentary-school aged child rather quickly. 
The dialogue of this final film is surpris­ingly scattered with funny moments. The humor kept the finale from feeling too emotional, weighty and melodramatic and rewarded fans of the books with those awk­ward and hilarious moments between the characters they’ve come to know and love beyond film characterization. 
The bulk of the story is devoted to the cullen clan’s newest problem: the royalty, papacy and mafia of vampires, the volturi. This time they are after edward and bella’s daughter. wanting to protect her and avoid being executed by the volturi, the cullens gather their vampire friends from all over the world to and stand in battle against the volturi. dozens of new international characters with varying, interesting gifts are added to the story. Though their pow­ers seem to be that of superheroes rather than of vampires (control of electricity, the natural elements, mind control, etc.) their presence adds some interest to the sometimes-nauseating amount of emotion bouncing around between edward, bella, Jacob and renesmee. 
however, it is still impossible to avoid the supposedly romantic, artistic montages between edward and bella with close ups of skin on skin that are more awkward than romantic. The beginning and especially the end make a point to try to nail into your head the epic nature of their romance now that they have a happy family forever, that this series is really over now, etc. even if you’re a nostalgic fan, the scenes go on a little too long. 
The shining moment in the film, howev­er, is near the end. spoiler alerT — the best part is also the least expected and most surprising, especially for fans of the book. 
in the book, a very convenient solution is found at the last minute, so the big fight never happens. in the film the volturi want to fight and will fight. From here the film completely strays from the book into a fight between the entire volturi and their guard versus the cullens and their witnesses. ignoring the bizarre nature of violence and dismemberment in the series, those 10 minutes are the most thrilling and inter­esting part of the movie, because not even book readers know what is happening and what will happen next. This move was ge­nius, because fighting actually gets to hap­pen, and major characters are killed in the process, proving that this really isn’t the book anymore and anything can happen. 
even less expected is after 10 minutes of crazy, unpredictable violence, it turns out everything the audience has just seen was the clairvoyant vampire’s futuristic vision of what would happen if the volturi decided to fight … but none of it actually happened. needless to say, the 10 p.m. release fans in the theater were losing their minds the en­tire time, and never has there been such a vocal reaction from an audience in a movie theater. 
Though not a cinematic masterpiece of our time, this Twilight ends the series well enough from the book material it had to work with, and worked even better with what it created on its own. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
“Breaking Dawn Part 2” 
Director: Bill Condon 
Studio: Lionsgate 
Starring: Kristen Stewart, Robert 
Pattinson and Taylor Lautner 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 

10. The 1984 original helped launched charlie sheen’s career. do we want to create another charlie sheen? have we learned nothing? 
9. The original had a budget of $4 million and holy bad graphics, batman, you can tell. The remake has a budget of $75 million and holy this movie is obviously going to suck, batman, this movie is obviously going to suck. 
8. since the original was released, ronald reagan tore down the berlin wall with his bare hands, torched communism after sneaking into the ussr by posing as sylvester stallone’s stuntman in “rock iv,” ended the cold war with his winning smile and did it all while wearing an american Flag pattern tie, smoking a cigar and grilling bratwurst. The soviets aren’t coming. 
7. The kids in the movie call themselves the wolverines, which is of course the dumbesT nickname ever. 
6. go irish, suck it wolverines, go irish go. 
5. This remake is the first major role for Tom cruise’s son, connor cruise. something something scientology stinks. That’s all i got. 
4. lea Thompson and Jennifer grey and their respective alter egos as mrs. mcFly and the chick patrick swayze lifts up in that one scene in “dirty dancing” >>>>>>> adrianne palicki and isabel lucas. 
3. The most redeeming quality of the original was how straight up american it is. in the remake, chris hemsworth attempts to replace swayze (can’t be done). hemsworth is australian. sleeper cell if i ever saw one. 
2. The villain was originally supposed to be china but it was changed in post-pro­duction to north korea.  north korea is led by a guy who can make up literally any­thing about himself that he wants and the people have to believe it (see: kim Jong il’s 11 holes in one in a single round of golf), but couldn’t even make up a girlfriend. 
1. patrick swayze. pour one out for a fallen homie. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
LAURA LAWS | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

money drives crazy realignment 
SMC SWIMMING & DIVING | woehnker inviTaTional 
Saint Mary’s finishes sixth in invitational at Wabash 
the 50[-yard] free, 100[-yard] two-day invitational with 
By PETER STEINER 

sports writer free and the 100[-yard] back-130 points, trailing the next-
stroke,” benishek said. “i think closest opponent valparaiso 
in their first non-conference she had a really solid meet. by roughly 170 points. event of the season, the belles That’s great to see out of any carthage won the woehnker finished sixth in the woehnker first year athlete.” invitational with 730.5 points. invitational, a two-day event while knobloch performed with much of their season hosted by wabash college. well in the freestyle events, remaining, the belles recog­
while the belles placed be-senior liz litke had a strong nize their need to work on de­hind the five other schools, showing in the various breast-tails, benishek said. belles coach mark benishek stroke events. The senior cap-“i think the small things we said it was important for his tain finished 14th and 18th need to worry about,” benishek team to swim competitively in the 200-yard and 100[-said. “our conditioning is 

Peter Steiner 
sports writer 
and the dominoes continue to fall. 
maryland became the new­est member of the big Ten on monday, with rutgers expected to follow the Terrapins in an an­nouncement sometime today. 
many believed the shifting, realigning and politics finally ended when notre dame an­nounced its decision earlier this fall to join the atlantic coast conference (acc) in every sport except football. but, alas, the wave continues with a further ripple effect anticipated after maryland’s departure from the acc. 
with the movement of two more teams, we now live in a world where the big Ten will have 14 members, while the big 12 has just 10. colorado and utah apparently lie on the west coast and the big east will soon include football teams from Texas to california to idaho. 
but the reason for all this cra­ziness is simple — money. it has become more and more appar­ent with each subsequent move by ncaa conference commis­sioners, but in this most recent news, money stands as seem­ingly the only reason for the ad­dition of maryland and rutgers to the big Ten. 
by increasing its reach to the atlantic coast and new york area, the big Ten adds new mar­kets and expands the Tv region for the big Ten network. The big Ten will increase its annual revenue, while also adding more leverage at the Tv contract nego­tiation table. 
what else can explain adding a mediocre maryland program whose football team finished last in the acc atlantic division in 2011? and while rutgers leads the big east at 9-1 this season, they add barely any prestige to a conference dotted with big names filled with tradition. 
are maryland and rutgers to blame for ditching their respec­tive conferences for the big Ten? hardly. when someone offers you a Thanksgiving-day turkey on a silver platter, it’s hard to turn it down. 
The culprits are the con­ference commissioners who continue to escalate this com­petition to have the greatest conference, most money and best legacy. big Ten commis­sioner Jim delany was not go­ing to stand on the sidelines as another conference reeled in notre dame and a brand-new Tv network. 
but lost in the fray of the con­ference politics stand the fans and many athletes, who are the real losers in the majority of these decisions. They’ve become second fiddle to the money and attention the biggest confer­ences are seeking. 
sure, some schools, players and fans will benefit from the shifting landscape of college sports. numerous lesser schools have elevated their program’s status by joining the big east or big 12. and many big-name schools are glad to make the move, like most of the top-tier programs leaving the crumbling big east. 
but in most cases, from the fan’s perspective, the disad­vantages of conference realign­ment outweigh the potential gains. suddenly, a conference filled with age-old midwest rivalries has been diluted with subpar competition. schools like michigan, ohio state and wisconsin can no longer play all of their rivals every year, because they must divide their nine-game conference schedule (assuming the big Ten expands its conference schedule to nine games) between 13 schools. 
and instead of making the trek to penn state every other year, the big Ten schools must travel to the east coast every year and sometimes twice a year. These games prove the most taxing for the athletes who must make the long trips and the distance virtu­ally excludes fans from attend­ing these road games. 
despite the negative results for fan bases, the conference realignment will continue, especially as the acc will look to replace maryland with per­haps connecticut or maybe louisville. 
so unfortunately, there is only one question that remains. how long until the next domino tumbles to the ground? 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


after three weeks of training. 

“we had a lot of hard train­ing leading up to this meet,” benishek said. “i think for some of them it was just a reaf­firmation of getting out there and racing again, especially on saturday where it’s an all day meet. That takes a lot out 
“I think the small things we need to worry about. ... We need to hone in on those little tiny details and fine-tune them and I think the girls will see better results.” 
Mark Benishek 
Belles Coach 

of any swimmer. overall, i think we had a good meet.” 
belles seniors ellie watson and genevieve spittler led the team on saturday with eighth-place finishes in the 500-yard freestyle and 200-yard but­terfly, respectively. Freshman megan knobloch also stood out with strong swims in three 
different  events,  benishek  
said.  
“megan  knobloch  had  

some great swims, especial­ly for a first year athlete, in 
yard] breaststroke events, respectively. 
“liz litke, one of my seniors and captains, had hands down a tremendous meet,” benishek said. “i think this exactly what she needed at this point in the season. she’s battling back from a tough season last year. she had to sit out most of the season due to a back injury so this is just great for her to see those times drop at this point in the season.” 
The belles finished the there, but when it comes down to it those small things can re­ally affect a race, whether it’s turns, streamlines coming off the wall. we need to hone in on those little tiny details and fine-tune them and i think the girls will see better results.” 
saint mary’s will next head to the calvin winter invite in grand rapids, mich., on nov. 29. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

SMC BASKETBALL | smc 75, illinois college 73; wheaTon 62, smc 42 
Belles split pair of tournament games 
Observer Staff Report 

saint mary’s split their open­ing games this weekend, taking a thrilling 75-73 victory over illinois college on Friday night before dropping a 62-42 contest to wheaton on saturday at the beth baker Tournament. 
Junior guard shanlynn bias was the hero for saint mary’s against illinois college, making a layup as she was fouled with three seconds left to lift the belles to a victory in their first game of the season. bias had a career-high 17 points for saint mary’s. 
Freshman forward krista knapke chipped in 16 points in her first-ever college contest, while freshman forward emily page added 14 points to the vic­tor’s score. 
The victory marked the fifth straight season-opening win for the belles and earned the belles a chance to play in the tournament’s championship game. unfortunately for saint mary’s, host wheaton was too much to handle as the belles dropped a 62-42 decision.  bias again led saint mary’s in scor­ing, putting up 15 points in the defeat. 
bias and knapke were both named to the all-tournament team. 
saint mary’s next takes on anderson on the road tonight at 
7:30p.m. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or you can take/On your knees you look up/ 
WANTED 

Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more Decide you’ve had enough/You get mad information, visit ND’s website at: you get strong/Wipe your hands shake
 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. it off/Then you Stand, Then you stand WINTER BREAK WORK Great Pay winterbreakwork.com “Stand” Rascal Flatts Life’s like a novel/With the end 
You feel like a candle in a hur-ripped out/The edge of a canyon/ ricane/Just like a picture with a With only one way down/Take 
PERSONAL 

broken frame/Alone and help-what you’re given before its gone/ less/Like you’ve lost your fight/ Start holding on, keep holding on 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? But you’ll be alright, you’ll be alright Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has Cause when push comes to shove/ many resources in place to assist {Chorus}Cause when push comes to You taste what you’re made of/You you. If you or someone you love needs shove/You taste what you’re made of/ might bend till you break/Cause its all confidential support or assistance, You might bend, till you break/Cause its all you can take/On your knees you look up/ 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame hosts Mercer over Thanksgiving break 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
Thanksgiving break begins this afternoon for many stu­dents, but the no. 5 irish will remain on campus to host tonight’s game against the mercer bears. 
mercer (3-0) has a five-game winning streak going back to last season, which is the third longest streak in the country (only oklahoma with eight and minnesota with seven have won more consec­utive games). 
so far, mercer has avoid­ed both buzzer-beaters and blow-outs, beating brevard, Troy, and Jacksonville st. by seven, six, and eight points, respectively. This is the bears’ first 3-0 start since 1999. 
irish coach muffet mcgraw said she did not have a spe­cific game plan based on mercer’s style of play, and will instead trust her team’s style to take care of the opponent. 
“i think at this point in the season we really want to concentrate on us and trying to feel like we’re executing, we’re running the stuff we want to run, defensively we’re in the right spots,” mcgraw said after notre dame’a 94-50 win over umass on sunday. 
even after a dominating performance in their home opener, mcgraw said she would like to see an improved defensive effort from the irish 
“I think at this point of the season we really want to concentrate on us and trying to feel like we’re executing, like we’re running the stuff we want to run.” 
Muffet McGraw 
Irish coach 
(2-0) on Tuesday. 
“we’ll see if we can do a little better job getting some charges and helping each other a little bit more, so i would say defensively we’ve still got some work to do for Tuesday, but offensively i think we’re headed in the right direction,” she said. 
although mcgraw still has tweaks for her defense, she’s pleased with the harassing, frustrating style of defense that has tripped up oppo­nents so far. 
“we’ve really been working hard at double-teaming, run­ning at the ball, and trying to make our defense get the of­fense to be really uncomfort­able,” mcgraw said.” That’s really our goal, and i thought we did a pretty good job of that. i was disappointed we didn’t take more charges, i think that’s something we’ve really got to work at overall, but i thought we had a re­ally good awareness today, of where the shooters were.” 
The irish might be playing without sophomore guard madison cable, who is deal­ing with foot pain after miss­ing most of last season with stress fractures in both feet. 
“her foot was bothering her. she had to quit practice [saturday] about half way through, and it was kind of a game time decision,” mcgraw said. “if it felt better today she was going to go, and after warming up she decided she couldn’t go, so she was re­ally ready ‘til the tip. she was 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

irish face non-conference test against bobcats 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
The irish are looking to re­bound from a big east tour­nament upset this Friday when they take on ohio. 
notre dame (20-8, 13-2 big east) faces the bobcats (20-10, 14-2 mac), with ohio coming off of its own con­ference tournament disap­pointment. it was stunned by northern illinois in the semifinal round of the mac 
tournament  after  earning  
the no. 1 seed.  
south  Florida  defeated  

the irish in the quarterfinal round of the big east tour­nament after entering at the no. 3 seed. both teams will be looking to return to their winning ways on Friday. 
“we are all pretty disap­pointed with what happened at the big east Tournament but there is nothing we can do about it now,” irish junior outside hitter and captain andrea mchugh said. “The biggest thing for us right now, is to make our practices great for our match against ohio on Friday.” 
mchugh said it’s not al­
“I think it is hard to bounce back from an upset sometimes, because you look at all the hard work you have put in throughout the season, and then to go home in the first day of the tournament is frustrating and disappointing.” 
Andrea McHugh 
Irish outside hitter 
ways easy for teams to have a positive mentality after 

paid adverTisemenT 

an upset, but the irish are spending this week focus­ing on working through the disappointment and get­ting ready for this match, as well as the rest of their postseason. 
“i think it’s hard to bounce back from an upset sometimes, because you look at all the hard work you have put in through­out the season, and then to go home on the first day of the tournament is frustrat­ing and disappointing,” she said. “but, it’s so important to work through adversi­ty and come into the gym with more motivation and focus as a team so we can be successful.” 
ohio will be especially motivated on Friday, be­cause much of their chance at a berth in the ncaa tour­nament is dependent on the result of their match against notre dame. 
“They are a bubble team and they have to beat us in order to have a chance at making it [to the post-sea­son], so they are going to be fired up and more than ready to face us on Friday,” mchugh said. 
as for what the irish need to do in preparation for the match, mchugh said the team needs to concentrate on getting back to basics. 
“it really just comes down to the simple things like communicating on the court and taking care of the ball on every play,” she said. 
last weekend, the irish had three players garner all-big east accolades. outside hitter Toni alugbue and right side hitter Jeni houser, both sophomores, were named to the first team, while ju­nior setter maggie brindock planning on playing, but after the warm up it was hurting too bad. so she’s questionable for Tuesday.” 
The irish and bears tip off at 7 p.m. today in purcell pavilion. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


earned a spot on the second team. This was brindock’s second consecutive year being named to the second team. 
The irish and the bobcats will get underway at ohio’s convocation center on Friday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 



MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish look to break through against A-10 foe 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
whennotre dame welcomes george washington to purcell pavilion on wednesday night, irish coach mike brey will be facing not only the colonials but also his past. 
brey played one year at george washington, where he averaged five points and 
4.8 rebounds as a senior and earning team mvp honors. 
“a lot of good memories,” brey said. “we were watching tape today from their game against youngstown state in the smith center and i told the guys ‘Fellas, i spent a lot of time in that building right there.’” 
he isn’t the only member of the brey family with ties to george washington. his wife played volleyball there, his mother was the swim­ming coach when brey was there and his father earned his master’s degree at the university. 
The colonials (1-1) enter the game following a 72-59 win over boston university on saturday but dropped their season opener to youngstown state 80-73. 
george washington belongs to the atlantic-10 conference, a league that has given notre dame (3-1) fits recently. 
The irish have lost their last two games against atlantic-10 competition — Xavier in the ncaa tournament last season and saint Joseph’s this past weekend. notre dame lost to the hawks 79-70 in overtime Friday night. 
“i think i need [my team’s] attention, we’re 0-2 against 
“I think I need [my team’s] attention, we’re 0-2 against the [Atlantic 10]. Let’s see if we can beat an [Atlantic 
10] team. They’ll be ready to go, they’re athletic up front.” 
Mike Brey 
Irish coach 
the [atlantic-10],” brey said. “let’s see if we can beat an [atlantic-10] team. They’ll be ready to go, they’re athletic up front.” 
Freshman guard Joe mcdonald leads the colonials in scoring, averaging 14 points in his brief college career. brey said notre dame took a look at mcdonald but passed on him to make room for in­
coming  guard  demetrius  
Jackson.  
senior  forward  isaiah  

armwood, a villanova transfer, has given george washington a boost in the frontcourt with 8.5 rebounds and 4.5 blocks per game. 
“They’re rebuilding it. They have young guards. They have the armwood kid who trans­ferred from villanova who transferred, athletic as heck. 
“They have some shot blockers back there. That re­ally bothered us Friday night when saint Joe’s had some guys flying around.” 
brey said george washington’s roster will re­semble some big east teams’ ones. 
“[atlantic-10] personnel is close to big east personnel sometimes. you have to be ready to go. it certainly will be a big one for them but i think it will be a big one for us given how we played saturday and how we’re looking at this win­dow of eight games looking at chicago state.” 
notre dame rebounded from its first loss Friday night by defeating byu 78-68 in the consolation game of the coaches vs. cancer tourna­ment. in the game, the irish played a lot of zone defense to slow down the cougars. 
brey said the irish may play more zone defense against the colonials. 
“you never get to play as fast as you want if you’re our opponent, defensively or of­fensively,” brey said. “That wears on you after a stretch of time … i’ve been afraid to go to zone a lot because we haven’t been as good at guarding the arc out of zone.” 


notre dame and george washington will tip off wednesday night at 7 p.m. in purcell pavilion. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 

irish face north dakota in top-10 matchup 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
Two storied histories. Two elite squads. Two sets of in­terlocking “nd” jerseys. 
That’s what will be on the line when no. 6 notre dame takes on no. 7 north dakota this weekend. 
north dakota (5-3-2, 3-1-2 wchl) is one of the great­est programs in the history of college hockey, with seven national championships in its trophy case back in grand Forks, n.d. They are still a force to be reckoned with though, as evidenced by their top-10 ranking, and a roster that has top-to-bottom talent. 
“They’re well balanced,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “They’ve got good forwards, good defense and good goal-tending. They’re probably one of the top two or three teams in their conference, and they’re going to be a chal­lenge ¬— probably the best team we’ll face all year out­side of maybe boston college. They’re a very good hockey team.” 
For the irish (8-3-0, 5-1­0-0 ccha), north dakota is merely the latest obstacle in a brutal november schedule. after splitting a series with no. 9 western michigan and losing a 3-1 contest at no. 1 boston college, the irish re­bounded by sweeping a series at no. 19 michigan for the first time since 1978. while notre dame is certainly rid­ing a high after their win­ning weekend against the wolverines, Jackson knows that the irish still have plenty of room for needed improvement. 
“we still have to improve our power play, and continue to work on faceoff. There’s 
“I’ve always said that playing tougher non-conference opponents makes us a better team overall.” 
Jeff Jackson 
Irish coach 
always things to work on,” he said. “my biggest concern right now is getting [junior center] T.J. Tynan going, and i think our power play is a big part of that. i think we’ve been doing a decent job de­fensively and on the penalty kill, but offensively i think we can be more of a threat.” 
in the midst of such a tough stretch, it might be a challenge just for the irish to show up prepared and motivated for every game. but Jackson said he doesn’t believe that will be a problem for his team. 
“i don’t think that will be an issue,” he said. “our guys know that they’re one of the top programs in the country. we played up there a couple of years ago, and they man­handled us in the first game, then we held on for a tie the second night. so we definite­ly know what they’re capable of. Fortunately we’re home against them this time, so we’re expecting a great series and two close games.” 
regardless of the outcome for the irish, two exciting games are most likely in store for south bend hockey fans. The level of competition should only serve to fill the compton Family ice arena — and, Jackson hopes, build up his team as well. 
“That’s one of the reasons we made the decision to play them a few years back, was to try to bring in these high-pro­file programs for our fans,” Jackson said. “They’re also games that make us better. i’ve always said that playing tougher non-conference op­ponents makes us a better team overall. you go into it knowing that you’re probably not going to win every one of weekend at the compton those games against those top Family ice arena. The puck teams, but if you can build will drop on Friday at 7:35 confidence against those p.m., while saturday’s game teams — that’s what matters will begin at 5:05 p.m. to me.” 

notre dame and north Contact Jack Hefferon at dakota will square off this wheffero@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



MEN’S SOCCER 

notre dame prepares for in-state matchup 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 
after rolling past michigan state with a 3-0 win sunday, the irish will continue their ncaa tournament run against another familiar big Ten foe. no. 1 notre dame will host no. 16 indiana in alumni stadium on sunday in the third round of the na­tional tournament. 
The irish (17-3-1, 5-2-1 big east) opened championship play in the second round against the spartans. after a slow start notre dame notched two first-half goals before adding a third in the 80th minute to secure the victory. playing at the same time, the hoosiers (12-5­3, 3-2-1 big Ten) defeated Xavier 4-1 to advance to the third round. The matchup with the in-state opponent represents a difficult task for the nation’s top seed, irish coach bobby clark said. 
“indiana is a team that could win the national cham­pionship,” he said. “This is a very hard game. we’ve got a very hard bracket. i think if we can get past this one we are in really good shape. i think this will be the hardest game of our way in. so we’ll see.” 
The two teams faced off once in the regular season, with notre dame taking the 1-0 victory in bloomington, ind. in the september con­test irish senior defend­er grant van de casteele scored the game-winner in the 71st minute. 
in the upcoming out­ing, notre dame will have to handle the hoosiers with some new faces on the 
“This is a very hard game. We’ve got a very hard bracket. I think if we can get past this one we are in really good shape. I think this will be the hardest game of our way in.” 
Bobby Clark 
Irish coach 
notre dame back line. irish junior defender andrew o’malley missed sunday’s game against michigan state due to injury and his status for the third-round game is uncertain. Junior defender luke mishu will miss the matchup with indiana af­ter receiving a red card in the 73rd minute against the spartans. Following a colli­sion in the notre dame pen­alty box, mishu and spartans junior midfielder wesley curtis became entangled in a shoving match. both play­ers were ejected. 
“obviously it’s a big dis­appointment,” clark said. “luke’s a great kid, but it just shows you, discipline is so important in winning games. it was only going to help them and not help us, that was the disappointment. but we’ll see. we’ll have a look. we’ve got players. [senior defender] eric Tilley came in and did fine [against michigan state]. we’ll see how andrew o’malley is, he should be getting closer next week.” 
irish junior defender connor miller made the start sunday for o’malley. 
notre dame is 7-24-1 all-time against indiana but the irish have fared better under clark, whose teams hold a 6-6-1 record against the hoosiers. in the last three years notre dame has two wins — both in bloomington 


— and one scoreless tie. 
“This is a big game,” clark said. “anytime we play indiana, if anything is in play it’s big. we’ve been down there a couple of times, we’ve actually done well. but to be honest we’ve actually had a poorer record here against indiana than we’ve had in bloomington, so i’m hoping we can rectify that a little bit this coming week. but that will be a great game. Just a fantastic game for the town of south bend. … it’s exciting.” 
Top-seeded notre dame will take on no. 16 indiana in alumni stadium on sunday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish to face No. 1-seed Seminoles 
pleased with the efforts of “i’m trying to get this 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 

sports writer his defense, which allowed young team to understand one goal against two top-10 that there’s not another day 
notre dame will look to opponents. to win if they don’t take care advance to the college cup “we’ve been really good of it now,” he said. “we can’t for the 13th time in program defensively for a while now, get caught up in looking at it history when the irish bat-and we just continue to get like it’s one game away from tle no. 1-seed Florida state better and believe in our-the college cup. i think it’s in the quarterfinal round selves,” waldrum said. a matter of just continuing of the ncaa champion-“outside of the one goal we to focus on the next game ships on Friday night at the gave up to wake Forest, we that’s in front of us. we’re seminole soccer complex in pretty much handled [ju-doing our part to make Tallahassee, Fla. nior] katie stengel, one of sure they’re focused on the 
notre dame (16-5-2, 8-1-the best forwards in the game.” 1 big east) advanced to the country, and we handled notre dame will face a quarterfinals after beat-[junior forward] adriana familiar playoff foe when it ing no. 2-seed Florida leon and Florida.” plays Florida state, as the 2-0 at pressly stadium in on the other end of the irish and seminoles met in gainesville, Fla., in third-field, notre dame seems four consecutive ncaa tour-round action sunday. The to have found its stride of-naments from 2006 to 2009. victory over Florida came fensively, as the irish have The irish beat the seminoles two days after the irish came accounted for seven goals in the semifinal round in from behind to dispatch no. in three ncaa tournament 2006 and in the quarterfi­3-seed wake Forest 2-1 in a games. nal round in 2008 and 2009, second-round battle. “going into the tail end of while the seminoles won the 
irish coach randy the season, the last two or 2007 semifinal matchup. waldrum said he was three games, we struggled to “[Florida state] is steady score goals,” waldrum said. and a real solid team,” 
paid adverTisemenT 

“it was good to get two goals waldrum said. “you don’t goals. Junior goalie kelsey like we have been and take in each of the games over get a no. 1[regional] seed wys, who holds a 0.67 goals-advantage of the opportuni­the weekend, and hopefully for being average. They have against average, has been ties we create. if we continue we’re finding our way offen-enough experience with a standout in goal for the to do that, we’ll have a good sively at the right time of the these guys, and we’ll have seminoles this season. chance to get past them.” year.” our hands full.” waldrum said the keys for notre dame will meet 
despite notre dame’s re-Florida state is paced notre dame to pull off the Florida state in quarterfinal cent success on the pitch, by senior forward Tiffany upset are strong defense and action Friday at 7 p.m. at the waldrum stressed the need mccarty, who leads the team opportune plays on offense. seminoles soccer complex for his team to remain fo-with 15 goals, and sopho-“we just have to be good in Tallahassee, Fla. cused as it heads into its more midfielder dagny on the day like we have matchup with the seminoles brynjarsdottir, who is sec-been,” waldrum said. “we Contact Brian Hartnett at (19-3, 8-2 acc). ond on the team with nine have to be good defensively bhartnet@nd.edu 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Test 
conTinued From page 16 
position and learned from his mistakes, he has trans­formed the program into his vision. 
kiffin has simply remained the same abrasive character who has turned off so many people in the past. 
it started in august when he lied about voting usc no. 1 in the coaches’ poll. it con­tinued with his revocation of credentials for a Trojans beat writer who reported an injury. Then he felt the need to trick colorado (colorado!) by having players switch numbers. a couple weeks ago a student manager was relieved of his duties for deflating footballs against oregon, which the coaching staff assuredly had no role in. 
each gaffe is followed by another, and another and another. 
Today, it seems far-fetched that usc was no. 1 just a couple months ago. but its struggles aren’t because of a lack of talent. it’s because of the coach, whose matu­rity is less than that of many Trojan players. it’s not out of the question that usc comes out with an inspired performance saturday in the absence of quarterback matt barkley, but it would be a credit to the players’ resolve, not the coach’s button-pushing. 
at notre dame, kelly continues to push the right buttons. his team is no. 1. his recruiting class is no. 3. The program’s graduation rate is the highest in the country. he continues to go about his job the right way. 
as kelly’s future looks as clear as a crystal foot­ball, kiffin’s is losing air as quickly as a deflated one. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Kelly 
conTinued From page 16 
and think of dominance,” kelly said. “They felt like last year they let a game slip through their hands with sloppy play, [usc] beat them at their place. so no, our guys are excited about the challenge of playing a rival in usc, but there’s no trepi­dation.  There’s a great deal of respect for usc and what they’ve done, but our guys are very confident in them­selves, as well.” 
For kelly, the no. 1 rank­ing marks an accomplish­ment unreached by any notre dame coach since lou holtz. but the third-year coach also said he realizes how short-lived a ranking can be. 
“i’m sure there’s a great deal of excitement, but again, we’ve got to hit the pause button here and real­ize that we’re not doing this to be no. 1 for three or four days; we’re doing this be­cause we want a consistent program that is in the hunt every year.  That’s really the focus of this program.” 
no. 1 notre dame heads to los angeles with a national championship berth on the line against usc on saturday at 8 p.m. on abc. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 



Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 

i don’t think even brian kelly could have seen this coming in his wildest dreams. but here we are — the irish are no. 1, and they have one game left. vanquish usc, and the dream ride continues right on to a final destination of miami. but don’t expect the 7-4 Trojans to roll over. usc is athletic ev­erywhere, especially with receivers marqise lee and robert woods. with lane kiffin’s job hanging in the balance, the Trojans will play their most inspired football of the season. but the irish defense will give first-time starting quarterback max wittek fits and the running game will grind out a vic­tory in the second half. it’s not a dream anymore. it’s reality 
— the irish will be playing for the national championship. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 23, usc 17 


Matthew DeFranks 
associate sports editor 
notre dame is one game away from the national championship game and two away from a national title. Think about it. Take a second. matter of fact, al­most no one saw this coming and even less people saw mighty usc’s fall. 
before last week, it looked as if the Trojans could still be a tough game for the irish. but then matt barkley emerged from usc’s loss to ucla with his arm in a sling, knocking him out for the showdown with no. 1 notre dame. 
The Trojans still have marqise lee and robert woods that should worry notre dame’s secondary but without a reliable signal caller to get them the ball, the irish de­fense should not have too much of an issue with usc. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 28, usc 17 


Andrew Owens 
assistant managing editor 
it’s starting to feel like notre dame is destined to have an historic season, especially after the top two teams fell last weekend. The irish have survived close game after close game this year, even when it looked bleak. why would this weekend be any different? usc might be without matt barkley and could be on the verge of firing lane kiffin, but this is the Trojans’ super bowl. brian kelly uses that man­tra often when describing opponents preparing to play the irish, but it is especially true this weekend. The 7-4 Trojans can ruin their archrival’s dreams of winning a national championship, and that alone should be enough of a reason to play inspired football. but this irish team is on a journey, and the road leads to miami. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 21, usc 16 


Andrew Gastelum 
associate sports editor 
and then there was one. 
one game to the bcs national championship game. one game to an undefeated season. one game against a hated rival that would enjoy nothing more than to de­molish everything notre dame has worked for this entire season. but this notre dame team is something spe­cial, proved in big road wins against michigan state and oklahoma, grinders in stanford and pittsburgh and blow­outs in navy and wake Forest. 
every player on this irish team knows what is at stake and will play his most inspired football of the season against a team that will be missing its proven leader in matt barkley. notre dame will head to the national cham­pionship in style. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 30, usc 7 


Chris Allen 
sports editor 

after months of preseason speculation, weeks and weeks of intense scrutiny and a season consisting of close games and blowouts, it comes down to this. no gray area 
— if notre dame beats usc, it will play in the bcs national championship game and attempt to cap off one of the great seasons in school history. with that sort of incentive, some may worry about the team crumbling under immense pres­sure. i’ve seen nothing from the 2012 irish to suggest such a fate. The usc program is probably one bad loss to notre dame away from firing its coach, and the biggest threats — marqise lee, robert woods and nelson agholor — will be limited by the unproven backup quarterback getting them the ball. irish will roll and set off a party from south bend to south beach over the next month. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 28, usc 16 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jodie Foster, 50; meg ryan, 51; allison Janney, 53; ann curry, 56. 
Happy Birthday: embrace change and you will excel. Follow the path that intuitively feels right. don’t share your secrets or take part in gossip. sticking to your game plan and executing what needs to be done with precision, integrity and hope will be your pathway to a better future. speak from the heart and you will make a difference. your numbers are 5, 13, 15, 23, 27, 31, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take action against bullying. show your versatility, strength and courage to do what you say and honor any promise you make. intui­tive awareness will be key in making the best choice. a creative plan can help you advance. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): relationship trouble will escalate if you let your emo­tions take over and cause a stubborn no-win situation to develop. getting along and listening to what others have to say will ensure that you get the opportunity to keep moving forward. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t settle for less when you can achieve so much more. put your heart and soul into whatever you do. someone you least expect will give you the help and support that can alter your direction in the future. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): honesty, integrity and doing what’s right should be fore­most on your mind. stepping up and taking charge will help you express what you feel is necessary to achieve your personal goals. reach for greater equality in your important relationships. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): listen very carefully. respect and appreciation will be neces­sary if you want to get through the day with little adversity. Focus on love, generosity and making positive changes. Travel plans or discovering something or someone new will make your day. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): knowing exactly where you have to go and what you want to achieve will make life easier. short trips and talking to people who can offer you pertinent information will help you achieve your goals and enlighten you regarding future prospects. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): pick a location or a subject that interests you. There is much to gain if you expand your horizons, awareness and friendships. love is in the stars, and planning a romantic or social evening will lift your spirits and invite intimate interaction. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): let your past be your teacher when it comes to financial matters. conservative spending will enable you to stretch your dollar and afford the things that will be conducive to getting ahead. an old idea has the potential to become profitable. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): keep the peace by accepting the inevitable and working with what you have. don’t divulge information that affects someone’s repu­tation. a partnership with someone striving to reach similar goals will lead to greater accomplishments. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): resurrect old ideas. people and places from your past will complement what you are trying to accomplish now. a move will help you put your plans into motion. develop, present and market what you have to offer. avoid unreliable people.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): research and find out what will work best for you rath­er than relying on someone else’s opinion. Trust in your judgment. happiness begins at home. making your place comfortable and efficient will satisfy your needs.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): you’ll be in a powerful position when it comes to marketing what you have to offer. speak up and negotiate a deal that will satisfy you mentally, physically, emotionally and financially. ask for something reasonable and you shall receive. 


Birthday Baby: you are passionate, proactive and imaginative. you act fast and ag­gressively. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker SUDOKU | The mepham group JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTrick cross 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ONE MORE TEST 
No. 1 Notre Dame travels to Los Angeles for chance to play in BCS National Championship Game 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
sports writer 
For the first time 
ever, notre dame 
is no. 1 in the 
bcs stand­
ings. but 
given one fi­
nal road test 
against a usc 
team that 
started the 
year at no. 
1, the irish 
have not 
had too 
much time 
to celebrate 
with a na­
tional cham­
pionship berth 
at stake. 
“you know 
what, they didn’t 
even talk about 
[being no. 1],” irish 
coach brian kelly 
said in his sunday 
teleconference. “a 
couple of the guys 
were congratulated by 
a couple of the train­
ers, and their first re­
sponse was ‘yeah, but 
it doesn’t mean much 
if you don’t beat usc,’ 

so that’s really all i needed to hear.” 
usc (7-4) began the sea­son as the title favorite with the heisman leader in senior quarterback matt barkley, but it has lost three of its last four to arizona, no. 5 oregon and no. 17 ucla on saturday. several media outlets have also reported that barkley (3,273 yards, 36 touchdowns) will miss saturday’s season finale with a sprained shoul­der. despite the absence of the prolific signal-caller, kelly said he is still con­cerned about an explosive Trojan attack. 
“no, because they have great weapons.  [sophomore receiver marqise] lee and [ju­nior receiver robert] woods and the running back situ­ation, they’ve got two great backs.  so we’re going to have to defend all of those play­ers, not just one.  certainly if barkley is playing, which we’ll prepare for him like he is playing, the offense is still going to be about getting the ball to their playmakers.  so it really won’t change much in terms of what we do.” 
lee has been at the center of recent heisman talks and leads the country with 1,605 receiving yards. in a 39-36 loss at arizona on oct. 27, lee had a breakout performance with 345 receiving yards and two touchdowns on 16 recep­tions. woods have put togeth­er a solid 2012 campaign as well with 721 receiving yards and 10 touchdowns after go­ing for 1,292 receiving yards last season. 
when asked how the irish defense could slow down usc’s dynamic duo, kelly had one major focus. 
“Tackle, tackle, tackle, tackle and tackle,” he said. “They’re in­credibly skill ed with the ball in the ir hand, and if they have a lot of space, they’re going to make you pay. we felt that we had to — against oklahoma — limit some of the catches and the ex­tended runs.  we’ll have to do a great job tackling, and that will be paramount to our success against usc.” 
usc has won nine of the last 10 meetings with notre dame (11-0), with the only irish win coming in their last visit to the coliseum in 2010. last season, the irish gave up 443 total yards and turned the ball over three times in a messy 31-17 loss at notre dame stadium. 
“i don’t think [the players] look at usc 
see kelly PAGE 14 
LAURA LAWS | The Observer 

kelly and kiffin headed in different directions in third years 
Andrew Owens 
assistant managing editor 
when archrivals notre dame and usc conclude the regular season in los angeles on saturday, the matchup will showcase one head coach’s program trending up­ward. on the other sideline, the head coach will feel the weight of a 7-4 record, a failed season and a disgruntled fan base on his shoulders. 
it’s exactly what every­one expected in august, but with a twist of role reversal: usc, the preseason ap no. 1 squad, has tumbled out of the top 25 with a nightmarish season, while notre dame, who was more likely to play in the little caesars pizza bowl than the bcs national championship game, is the top team in the land for the first time since everett golson was 10 months old. 
pundits can point to many reasons for the irish upris­ing and the Trojan fall, but it boils down to this: Quite sim­ply, notre dame has a better coach. 
usc coach lane kiffin’s childish antics have just about worn out their welcome at a school still recovering from the public-relations hit of severe ncaa sanc­tions. Following a 38-28 loss to crosstown rival ucla on saturday, even a victory over the no. 1 irish might not be enough to save his job. 
his third-year counterpart, irish coach brian kelly, took a lot of criticism during his first 30 months on the job. 
he doesn’t know how to build a defense, they said. he’s never been at a big-time program before, they said. look at the way he yells at his players, they said. 
poor beginnings — a 1-3 start in 2010 and 0-2 in 2011 — fueled critics’ argu­ments. kelly didn’t have the immediate success prede­cessors Tyrone willingham and charlie weis did. but he’s proving the foundation he laid is more stable than any coach since lou holtz roamed the sidelines. 
a year ago, in the week following notre dame’s flat 31-17 night-game loss to the Trojans, kelly took heat for his comments regarding the differences between players he recruited and those weis recruited. 
it was atypical of kelly’s calculated handling of the media and his players. whether he was trying to light a fire or was simply re­acting to his frustration, he looked immature in the af­termath. as he grew into the 
see TesT PAGE 14 

See our predictions on page 14 






