
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Alumna to give 2012 Commencement address 
By SAM STRYKER Dennis Brown told The Ob-country of the many chal-back and was paralyzed after DeMaria returned to take Assistant Managing Editor server. lenges she faced in recover-a team bus returning from a classes in the spring of 1992, DeMaria will also receive ing from injuries suffered in meet against Northwestern and began swimming in the 
Notre Dame alumna Haley an honorary degree at the the accident, always with a slid off the Indiana Toll Road fall. On Oct. 29, 1993, she Scott DeMaria, who made an May 20 ceremony, to take focus on God’s grace and the during a snowstorm Jan. completed her comeback, inspirational comeback from place in Notre Dame Stadium. love and support she received 24, 1992. Freshmen Meghan swimming the 50-yard free-critical injuries sustained in In a release, University from her family, friends and Beeler and Colleen Hipp died style — and winning her heat. a 1992 bus President Fr. John Jenkins Notre Dame. in the accident. Most of the DeMaria has said she is accid ent 
said he believes DeMaria’s “I’m sure that her words other passengers on board honored to share the story of involving 
address will provide an ap-will be as inspirational to our suffered injuries, with De-her incredible comeback. the Irish 
propriate message for those graduates as they have been Maria the most seriously “It is moving, gratifying swimming 
graduating. to so many others.” hurt. and inspiring to speak to peo­team, will 
“The courage, perseverance Former United States Sec-Doctors told DeMaria she ple about my recovery,” she deliver the 
and faith Haley has demon-retary of Defense and direc-likely would spend the rest has said. “It is a gift to pass 2012 Com­
strated over the past 20 years tor of the Central Intelligence of her life in a wheelchair. A along hope.” mencement 
have been remarkable and Agency Robert Gates deliv-week after the accident, she DeMaria has received sev­add ress, 
are a shining example for us ered last year’s commence-regained feeling in her legs. eral notable honors for her University all,” he said. “She has spoken ment address. DeMaria was standing and spokesman to scores of groups across the DeMaria suffered a broken walking within a month. see SPEAKER/page 6 


Experts discuss HHS contraceptive mandate at panel 
By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
Four experts contended the recent Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) contraceptive mandate is an attack on religious freedom in a panel discussion Tuesday ti­tled “Notre Dame and the HHS Contraceptive Mandate.” 
Daniel Philpott, a profes­sor of international relations, moderated the Notre Dame Right to Life-sponsored event in the Eck Hall of Law and said the United States was meant to be an example of re­ligious freedom. 
“Many people feel, however, that in recent years … there’s been a move toward closure and increasing [governmen­tal] control and management over the Church,” he said. 
“And perhaps nothing signi­fies that so much and exem­plifies that so much as the re­cent contraceptive mandate.” 
Carter Snead, a professor of law and expert on pub­lic bioethics, said in March 2010, Congress passed the Patient Protection and Afford­able Care Act, which required health care plans to cover certain preventive services to women without charging them out-of-pocket costs. 
HHS asked the independent Institute of Medicine (IOM) to recommend which preven­tive measures should be cov­ered, Snead said. In August 2011, the IOM determined all contraceptives, sterilization methods and forms of contra­ceptive education qualified. 
“Some of the drugs that are approved by the FDA [Food and Drug Administration] … 
can function in certain con­texts to cause the death of the newly developing human em­bryo, not only before implan­tation, but also after implan­tation,” Snead said. “There is not just a religious liberty objection to the mandate. There is also what I will call a pro-life objection because it includes these kinds of drugs that have embryo side ef­fects.” 
Snead said HHS authorized an exemption n Aug. 3, 2011 for religious employers whose purpose was to inculcate re­ligious values, employed and served primarily people that shared its tenants and was a non-profit organization as de­fined by the Internal Revenue Service. 
On Jan. 20, HHS announced a one-year temporary safe harbor to allow non-exempt organizations that object to the mandate to find a way to comply, Snead said. He said 


HHS later announced it would 


see HHS/page 6 


AT&T gives scholarship to ACE 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS Jo Jo to “get back” to Tucson; News Writer but a Notre Dame-based pro­gram recently urged AT&T The Beatles famously urged to instead “give back” to the 

LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
Arizona city. 
AT&T gave $800,000 to the creation of scholarships allowing impoverished stu­dents to attend three Tuc­son schools supported by the Notre Dame Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) Academy (NDAA), under an Arizona tax credit program. 
Christian Dallavis, direc­tor of NDAA, said the con­tribution will create more than 300 scholarships for students to attend the three NDAA schools in Tucson: St. Ambrose, St. John the Evan­gelist and Santa Cruz. 
The NDAA program has been working to raise awareness of Arizona’s cor­
see ACE/page 5 



Notre Dame student wins service award 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 

Service has always been a part of Erin Wright’s life, and the Notre Dame junior finally is being recognized for her tireless efforts to the area. 
Wright is the 2012 recipi­ent of the Richard J. Wood Student Community Com­mitment Award from Indi­ana Campus Compact. Ac­cording to a press release from the Center for Social Concerns (CSC), the award is given to a student at an Indiana college or univer­sity for the impact they have on the citizens of the state and their community. 
“I think it is very hum­bling and honoring to win this award,” Wright said. “It’s a good testament to the organizations I work with and the people they serve. This makes me want to stay involved and continue to work with them. 
As a high school student, Wright was involved with her school’s campus minis­try. When she came to Notre Dame, getting involved in a 


see AWARD/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Education panel page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u The 10 Commandments of ND Menswear page 10 u Women’s Basketball advances to Final Four page 20 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WILL YOU DO IN THE EVENT OF A ZOMBIE APOCALYPSE? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Drew Williams Jeremy de la Cruz Jasmine Park Laura Josephson Eric An Patrick Dugan 
junior freshman freshman freshman sophomore sophomore Stanford Old College Breen-Phillips Pasquerilla West Morrissey Morrissey 
“Be Will Smith.” “I would go to “I would pretend “I would hide in “Go on a cruise.” “Just stay in my Basilica Mass to be a zombie.” an underground basement.” and pray that bomb shelter.” the Holy Cross 
priests are good exorcists.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


ANDREW CHENG/The Observer 
Senior Christine Fagan (back) leads the humans on their first mission at LaFortune Student Center during the Zombies vs. Humans game Tuesday night. The event runs campus-wide from March 27 through 31. 
OFFBEAT 

Real- Life “Hamburglar” strikes Maine McDonalds 
AUGUSTA, Maine — A real-life Hamburglar has struck at a Maine McDonald’s. 
Police say a young man, seemingly inspired by the pattie purloining character once featured in McDonald’s advertising campaigns, ran between a car and the take­out window at the Augusta restaurant Sunday night as an employee handed a bag of food to a driver. 
A witness flagged down an officer leaving a nearby con­venience store. 
Lt. Christopher Massey, acting on a description of the hungry thief, found him in the parking lot of a rival fast food restaurant diving 

LOCAL WEATHER 
into a McDonald’s bag. 

Massey tells the Kennebec Journal the suspect swore and ran into the woods. He was never caught. 
Massey says the three young men who had their food stolen didn’t know the burger thief. 
McDonald’s replaced the stolen food, worth about $20. 
City lists aliens, holidays as test topics to avoid 
NEW YORK — Companies that want to come up with the tests used to measure New York City students’ progress are being advised to stay away from topics in­cluding aliens and vermin. 
A Department of Educa­tion list of subjects to avoid also includes: junk food, birthdays, abuse, terrorism, holidays and Halloween. 
The department included the list in a recently issued request for proposals to cre­ate the tests used to measure student progress in math, science, literacy and social studies. It says the listed top­ics could “evoke unpleasant emotions” or “appear biased.” 
New York University educa­tion professor Diane Ravitch says concern about test topics isn’t confined to the nation’s largest city. She says its some­thing “testing companies have been doing for a long time.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame soft­ball team will be playing a double-header against the University of Toledo tonight at 4 p.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium. Tickets cost $5 for adults or $3 for youth/ seniors. 
A colloquium titled “Gas­eous halos and galaxy evo­lution: Latest results from the Hubble Space Telescope” will be given tonight at 4 p.m. at Nieuwland Science Hall. 
A lecture on “Transform­ing Los Angeles: The Poli­tics of Transit Design” will be given tonight at 4:30 p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. 
A workshop for graduate students, faculty and staff titled “Preparing Material for Publication” will be held at tonight at 5 p.m. in 120 DeBartolo Hall. 
A presentation titled “From Backpack to Brief­case” will be held tonight at the Mendoza College of Business to offer insight into the transition from Notre Dame to the busi­ness world. A reception will begin at 5:30 p.m., and the event program will begin at 6 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium at Mendoza. 
A Communiversity panel discussion titled “Deepen­ing Our Roots” will be held at 7 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall, with representatives from Robinson Communi­ty Learning Center, Unity Gardens, and the Northern Indiana Food Bank. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Anna Boarini Bridget Feeney Ann Marie Jakubowski 

Graphics 
Lisa Hoeynck 


Photo 
Sports 

Joseph Monardo Joe Wirth Mike Monaco 

Scene 

Mary Claire O’Donnell 

Viewpoint 
HIGH 50 LOW 37 
HIGH 56 LOW 42 
HIGH 56 LOW 44 

HIGH 58 LOW 42 
HIGH 72 LOW 55 


TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
Sarah O’Connor Ren Brauweiler 











CORRECTIONS 

In the March 27 issue of The Observer, Heather Rakoczy Russell’s name was misspelled in the photo caption of the article “Week celebrates Holy Cross.” The Observer regrets this error. 



Panel presents community perspective on successful reforms 
By SHANNON O’BRIEN 
News Writer 
In response to the 2011­2012 Notre Dame Forum, four principals from South Bend schools came together with local parents, educators and ND students to give the com­munity perspective on their schools’ stories of reform and change. 
“I think the conversation in the Forum has been very productive. But, it just seems to make no sense if we don’t move forward from the Fo­rum and involve our local ed­ucators in this discussion,” senior Liz Chaten, the panel facilitator, said. 
The Education, Schooling and Society minor sponsored the event in response to the Forum in order to explore the issues on a local, com­munity level. In addition to the panel discussion of lo­cal principles, a reception followed where other local organizations, teachers and principals shared their sto­ries and displayed poster presentations. 
Deb Martin of McKinley Primary Center, Karla Lee of Edison Intermediate Cen­ter, John Kennedy of South Bend New Tech High School and Darice Austin-Phillips of Perley Primary Fine Arts Academy were the four prin­cipals featured in the panel discussion. 
“After the Forum, I felt many Notre Dame students had such negative feelings to­wards the South Bend educa­tion system,” Chaten said.  “I wanted to give our students a chance to see the positive side of South Bend schools.” 
Each principal on the pan­el promoted the South Bend School Corporation and gave informative and inspiring presentations of the reforms and initiatives they have im­plemented in each of their respective schools. 
“At McKinley, we have ad­opted the motto ‘Learn like a champion today,’” Martin said. “This not only applies to the students, but also the teachers who promote, ‘Teach like a champion to­day.’” 
The principals also dis­cussed how they went about planning their reforms. 
“We focused our reforms on answering the question, ‘What can we start to do to connect school material with real life experiences,” Lee said. 
Lee said Edison Intermedi­ate Center has initiated off-campus experiences to help students connect academics with the community includ­ing a “Science Day” where students spend the day at Jordan Hall of Science and get a chance to interact with 


Notre  Dame  students  and  
professors.  
Kennedy  shared  the  new  

technological approach at New Tech High School, which focuses on 21st-century skills and emphasize the three C’s: college, careers of tomorrow and citizenship. Austin-Phillips discussed reforms resulting in a thor­ough arts-integrated aca­demic program and heavily involved parent-teacher or­ganization. 
After each principal com­pleted a formal presenta­tion, Chaten asked the par­ticipants a few questions about their feelings on some of the issues discussed at the Forum. Topics included the teacher accountability and common misconceptions in public dialogue on education. 
“Accountability of both teachers and students is nec­essary,” Kennedy said. “This accountability can be a good thing. Standards provide a sense of urgency for schools. If you spin that sense of ur­gency in a positive way, it can provide positive results.” 
At the end of the discus­sion, the panel addressed the community and Notre Dame students in particular by dis­cussing what others can do to help education reform. 
“Many people often un­derestimate the tremendous amount of supports students need; it’s not just academic,” Austin-Phillips said. “If you want to help reform educa­tion, think about ways you can become part of that change.” 
Lee recommended students visit local schools to inform themselves about the issues. 
“What will be your impact and contribution to our fu­ture society? If you have not visited a South Bend school, go into a school and form your own perception and re­ality,” Lee said. 
Many students attended the event, including sopho­more Lisa Chin and were able to start to form their own perception and attitude toward South Bend schools Lee mentioned in her advice to Notre Dame students. 
Students who attended said the event helped them become more informed about education issues. 
“It was so great that the [Education, Schooling and Society minor] brought these educators to Notre Dame. I attended the Fo­rum, but there weren’t any actual teachers represent­ed,” sophomore Lisa Chin said. “We are members of the South Bend community as Notre Dame students and it is definitely important that we know what is going on locally.” 

Contact Shannon o’Brien at sobrie12@nd.edu 






Student hosts book drive to benefit Center for Homeless 
By CAILIN CROWE 
News Writer 
Senior Bridget Meade looks to harness the power of the writ­ten word, fighting poverty with the power of fairytales and nursery rhymes. 
Meade is hosting a book drive at Saint Mary’s to create a pre­school library at the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
“Reading can be both enjoy­able and powerful. Education is such a great way to fight pov­erty, and reading is one of the best ways to educate children,” 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
porate tax credit scholar­ship program and has been in contact with many dif­ferent companies, Dallavis said. 
Arizona law allows com­panies to contribute their entire state tax liability to scholarships for Arizona students, and the companies who participate receive a 100% tax credit on Arizona state taxes. 
“It does so much for kids and it doesn’t cost them a penny,” he said. 
AT&T staff, also including some Notre Dame alumni, helped convince AT&T to make their contribution to NDAA scholarships, Dallavis said. 
William Schmitt, Commu­nications and Media Spe­cialist with ACE, said NDAA is a comprehensive school-support program operatin­gunder the direction of ACE, a Notre Dame-based organi­zation that has served Catholic schools na-
Dallav is said. 
The goal of the NDAA program is to extend “extraordinary” Catholic education to as many kids as possible, Dal­lavis said. 
“Our ultimate goal is what we put on our t-shirts and display on a banner in each school. It is ‘Our goals: col­lege and heaven’,” he said. 
Currently, NDAA works exclusively with the three Tucson schools, but the pro­gram already plans to add two more schools in Tampa Bay, Florida in the fall. Dal­lavis said the intention is to continue expanding the program nationwide, while remaining involved in all NDAA schools. 
“Our involvement in Tuc­son may decrease as their need decreases. We would then be less involved there and focus our attention on other schools, but the Tuc­son schools will remain NDAA schools,” he said. “We hope to create a nationwide she said. 
Meade is the founder of Mom­my and Me, a literacy class at the Center. The program en­courages and teaches parents to read to their children. The library will be made available to both the students in her class and other guests at the Center, she said. 
Meade said she was inspired to create this class because of her own love of reading. 
“Reading was such a huge part of my childhood that I thought it was a tragedy that some kids aren’t being read to,” 

network of high-performing Catholic schools serving low-income communities.” 
Dallavis said he recently brought the principals from the three Tucson schools to Milwaukee, where they ob­served several model Catho­lic schools. 
All three of the schools saw significant improve­ment in the first year of NDAA’s involvement, which began in 2010, Dallavis said. 
“We’ve worked very close­ly with teachers and princi­pals to help improve instruc­tion and the materials they have to teach with,” he said. “In the first year, across all three schools, students gained as much as a month of two months in every con­tent area. Teachers are clos­ing the achievement gap their students are facing.” 
The NDAA intends to main­tain its focus on students in the range from pre-school to eighth grade because there are already many strong Catholic high schools na­tionwide, Dallavis said. 
“We are preparing kids 
from age 
three to 
eighth grade 
to be ready 

tionwide “We are preparing kids for a college since 1994. preparatory 
from age three to eighth 
N D A A high school,” 
grade to be ready for a 
partners he said. 
college preparatory high 
with indi-“When they 
school. When they come 
vidual Cath-come attend olic schools attend our schools, they our schools, 
to help with are significantly more they are sig­everything likely to graduate high nificantly from admin-school and go to college.” more likely istrative to to graduate classroom high school 
Christian Davis 
support, and go to 
NDAA director 
college.” 
Dallav is 
said much of 
a student’s 

attitude to­ward education and aca­demic ability is determined early on. 
“Students tend to be either on their way to college or not by the time they reach high school,” Dallavis said. 
Dallavis said NDAA appre­ciates AT&T’s contribution and what allows the organi­zation to accomplish. How­ever, he said there are still more students in need who NDAA hopes to be able to help in the future. 
“We hope this will be a long term partnership and that other companies will begin to make use of the Ar­izona tax credit program,” Dallavis said. “Even with this contribution, there are more kids who need a schol­arship to attend our schools, the need is lessened, but it still remains.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
she said. 
Reading is a beneficial activ­ity for both children and par­ents living in poverty, Meade said. The Mommy and Me class will help parents learn to enjoy reading to their children. 
“Many parents in poverty were not read to as children, which makes it uncomfortable for them to read to their own children,” she said. 
The Mommy and Me class teaches parents reading to in­fants and toddlers is a power­ful activity, benefitting a child’s cognitive development and overall life trajectory, Meade said. 
Some parents living at the Center are illiterate and too uncomfortable to read to their children, she said. The pre­school library will provide il­literate parents picture books. Those parents can still read and interact with their children by creating stories based off the il­lustrations, she said, something crucial to their maturation. 
“Reading to preschoolers is about helping them interact and hear words that will help with their cognitive development,” Meade said. 
Meade said preschoolers en­joy classic fairy tales and nurs­ery rhymes the most. 
“The best books to donate are the old school classics,” she said. 
Books will be accepted at a drop box in LeMans Hall through the end of the year, or tcontact Bridget Meade with questions about the book drive at bmdeade01@saintmarys. edu 


Contact Cailin Crowe at ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 


Professors show off unique talents 
By DREW PANGRAZE 
News Writer 

As a way for students to interact outside of the class­room with professors, Leg­ends of Notre Dame hosted the fourth annual ‘Profes­sors Unplugged’ event Tues­day night. This event gives freshmen a chance to see their professors’ unique tal­ents. 
ND Ignite, a program in the First Year of Studies, organized this year’s event to increase interaction 
between  professors  and  
freshmen,  professor  and  
event  coordinator  Sean  
Wernert said.  

“We planned and worked with them [the students] to make the event something that they can be proud of and informative,” Wernert said.  “As we continue the event each year, we work with first-year students to remake and design the event as something that they will find interesting. 
“We want students to see the path that profes­sors have taken in their careers — what brought them to their chosen aca­demic field and how they got to Notre Dame,” Wer­nert said. “We also want students and faculty to interact outside the class­room in an informal envi­ronment.” 
Hugh Page, dean of the First Year of Studies, kicked off the event by reading three personally written poems. The first of those poems, entitled 
‘First Book,’ stressed the importance of embrac­ing and ex­amining self.  
“We are the first book we are ever given, but the one we read last and least attentive ­ly,” Page said. 
Following Dean Page, 
Abby Palko, professor of gender studies, chronicled her journey to Notre Dame, which included an eight-year stint as an 8th grade teacher. 
“When I finally went to Notre Dame for my Ph.D after teaching I couldn’t believe I was being paid to read,” Palko said. “It was incredible.” 
Many of the professors revealed musical talents. Professors Annie Coleman and Josh Kaplan performed a duet together with an ukelele and a trumpet. 
Sociology professor Eu­gene Halton impressed with his harmonica play­ing skills.  His music style was varied, ranging from Beethoven on a miniature harmonica to train sounds 

“We want students to see the path that professors have taken in their careers — what brought them to their chosen academic field and how they got to Notre Dame. We also want students and faculty to interact outside the classroom in an informal enviroment.” 
Sean Wernert professor 
on a tradi­tional har­monica. Between songs, Hal-ton recalled his time at Pri nceton as a track and field athlete and the road that led him to Notre Dame. 
Others, such as Pro­fessor Anre Vent er, 
amused the crowd with wit and sarcasm. 
“My talent is to use ridi­cule and sarcasm as the basis for good teaching,” Venter said.  “It is always done with love and re­spect.” 
Students who attended the event said they felt the event was a success. 
“I’m really glad I went,” freshman Sophie Loftus said.  “They were all really talented and had great life stories.” 
Contact Drew Pangraze at apangraz@nd.edu 


HHS 
continued from page 1 
develop rules that would try to satisfy non-exempt organiza­tions by August 2013. 
Richard Garnett, associate dean for faculty research at the Law School, said the HHS mandate is a threat to the re­ligious freedom of minority groups. 
“The religious freedom of … communities like Notre Dame is not just the freedom to avoid being coerced into doing evil … [but] to bear witness of the truth of the faith and to act with integrity and to act co­herently in accord with their Catholic character as they un­derstand it,” he said. 
Garnett said the mandate potentially violates the free exerci se clause of essential preventive services that enhance the health of women … in the administra­tion’s mind … trumps any right that religious employers might have to refuse to pay for such essential services,” she said. 
Everett said pregnancy is not a disease and many contracep­tives are actually dangerous to women’s health. 
“We call on President Obama and our representatives in Congress to allow religious institutions and individuals to continue to witness to the faith and all its fullness, con­scious that it is precisely this faith that protects the dignity of women,” she said. 
Gabby Speach, a senior and member of Notre Dame Right to Life, said female advocates of the mandate have charged to oppose it is to wage a war on women. But con-

the First A men d ­ment by exempting some reli­gious be­lievers but not others. He said the R el i g iou s F r ee d o m R est o r a - “Sometimes a democracy like ours, with ideals like ours, accommodates religious freedom even when it doesn’t have to. In this case, it seems to me, the better policy … would be to provide a broader religious freedom exemption to the preventive services mandate.”  traception c a n n o t p r o p er l y be called h e a l t h care, she said. “ B a s e d on our s t a n da r d conception of health,  
tion Act re q u i re s the gov­ernment to  Richard Garnett associate dean Notre Dame Law School  then fer­tility and pregnancy cannot be  

identify a compelling reason for imposing a burden on religious groups. 
“Sometimes a democracy like ours, with ideals like ours, accommodates religious freedom even when it doesn’t have to,” Garnett said. “In this case, it seems to me, the better policy … would be to provide a broader religious freedom ex­emption to the preventive ser­vices mandate.” 
Even if such an accommoda­tion was made, the exemption would still be very narrow, Garnett said. 
“To have that narrow exemp­tion codified in our regulatory apparatus, it’s like leaving a loaded gun around for a kid to pick up,” he said. 
Lisa Everett, co-director of the Office of Family Life of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend, said the Obama admin­istration flouted the principle of equal protection under the law by exempting certain groups and not others. 
“The conviction of those cur­rently in power that contracep­tion, sterilization and abor­tion-inducing drugs constitute considered 
diseases that need a cure, and contra­ceptives are not medicines that cure fertility and pregnancy,” she said. 
Speach said contraception is easily accessible through drugstores, doctors and in some states, through Medic­aid. She said it is also avail­able at religious institutions for non-contraceptive reasons. 
“If you need contraception for a medically necessary rea­son that’s not a contraceptive reason, you can get it here [at Notre Dame],” Speach said. “To say that opposing the man­date is a war on women is to twist the rhetoric.” 
Everett said HHS could de­velop a policy allowing re­ligious institutions to act in accord with their moral prin­ciples. 
“To me, one possibility would be to have employers offer insurance coverage for family planning methods that are in accord with their moral principles,” she said. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


Speaker 
continued from page 1 

amazing comeback, includ­ing the Spirit of Notre Dame Award, Honda Award for In­spiration and Gene Autry Courage in Sport Award. She was named Woman of 

Award 
continued from page 1 
variety of service opportuni­ties was a way to become en­gaged on campus, she said. 
Wright is the president of Friends of the Orphans, a group that works in Hondu­ras, interned last summer at St. Jude’s Children Hospital through the CSC’s Summer Service Learning Program, and is a poverty studies mi­nor. 
Wright said she is commit­ted to service in her future, no matter where she ends up. 

“I’m not sure what I want to do, I want to do some service, perhaps spend some time abroad,” she said. “I think I want to go to grad school and study global health. I want to work in development issues and how it relates to health care.” 
As an intern at St. Jude’s, Wright worked with patients and their families. 
Wright is a poverty studies minor and has participated in many CSC seminars, in­cluding the Appalachia pro­gram and Urban Plunge. 
Last year, she was part of a theology class who started a food co-op in the Monroe Park neighborhood, a local “food desert.” 
In the press release, Cyn­thia Toms Smedley, director of the Educational Immer­the Year by the National Women’s Leadership Con­ference in 1994 and a fel­low of the Institute for In­ternational Sport. DeMaria is also the first vice presi­dent for the Notre Dame Monogram Club and will begin her two-year service as president starting in 2013. 
DeMaria graduated in 1995, and now lives in An­napolis, Md., with her hus­band, 1995 alum Jamie De-Maria, and two sons. She has shared her story in a book and has plans for a movie. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


sion Seminars at the CSC, said Wright is an advocate for people living on the mar­gins of society. 
“Erin has demonstrated a deep and abiding conscience for people living at the mar­gins of our society,” Toms Smedley said. “Furthermore, her tireless efforts toward poverty alleviation have pro­duced countless positive out­comes for her peer students, university staff and faculty, and for community mem­bers.” 
Fr. William M. Lies, ex­ecutive director of the CSC, nominated Wright for the award. 
“As an educator, I am struck by the realization that many students come and go through our doors during our decades of uni­versity service,” Lies said in the press release. “Most stu­dents learn and contribute to our lives. However, once in a while, a special student enters our doors — a student that embodies our greatest values and bolsters our hope in the future. Erin Wright is that student.” 
Contact anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


National Archives receive historic art donation 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Among the items 
U.S.
 soldiers seized from Ad­olf Hitler's Bavarian Alps hideaway in the closing days of World War II were albums meticulously documenting an often forgotten Nazi crime — the massive pillaging of art­work and other cultural items as German troops marched through Europe. 

Two of those albums — one filled with photographs of works of art, the other with snapshots of furniture — were donated Tuesday to the 

U.S.
 National Archives, which now has custody of 43 albums in a set of what historians be­lieve could be as high as 100. 


Robert M. Edsel, founder and president of the Dallas-based Monuments Men Foun­dation for the Preservation of Art, which announced the discovery of the two new al­bums at a news conference, called them "key pieces of evidence taken from a crime scene that were prized pos­sessions of Adolf Hitler." 
Relatives of the two sol­diers who took the albums contacted the foundation, which has previously do­nated two other albums in the series to the National Archives. They had read stories in the media about foundation's mission, which includes continuing the work of the Monuments Men, who helped Allied forces protect cultural treasures during World War II and helped return stolen items after the war. 
"We can only hope for more discoveries in the years to come," U.S. Archi­vist David S. Ferriero said at the news conference. 
The Nazi agency Einsatz­stab Richsleiter Rosenberg created the series of albums to document the items taken from across Europe. Of the 43 albums identified so far, 39 were discovered in May 1945 at Neuschwanstein Castle in Germany. They were then used as evidence at the Nuremberg trials to document the Nazi looting before eventually going to the National Archives. 
In 2007, the Monuments Men donated two addition­al albums after they were found in the attic of the fam­ily of a U.S. soldier, though the foundation has retained possession of one of those for the last few years as a teaching tool. 
"I think there's a lot more of them out there," said Ed­sel, who noted that the al­bums were used as "shop­ping catalogs" for Hitler to select works of art for vari­ous museums. 
Of the newly discovered albums, one contains photo­graphs of 69 paintings that were taken as early as 1940. Most of those paintings ap­pear to have been properly restituted, but an ERR da­tabase indicates four were not. The other newly found album contains photo­graphs of 41 pieces of furni­ture, mostly taken from the Rothschild family. 
Edsel said that by 1951, the Monuments Men had processed and returned more than 5 million stolen objects. 
"It was the greatest trea­sure hunt in history — one that continues to this day," Edsel said. 
Greg Bradsher, senior ar­chivist at the National Ar­chives, said the recently discovered albums are a reminder of the massive amounts of property Hitler took and a reminder that "to this day, hundreds of thou­sands" of items are not with their rightful owners. 
The albums are also "a re­minder that a lot of soldiers in World War II brought sou­venirs home — some of them were helmets, bayonets, medals, which are really bounty of war — but others picked up books, albums, other cultural property," Bradsher said. 
One of the newly discov­ered albums, known as al­bum 15, was taken by Pfc. Yerke Zane Larson, who served in the 501st Battal­ion of the 101st Airborne Division, the "Screaming Eagles." Cpl. Albert Lo­renzetti, who served in the 989th Field Artillery Bat­talion, took the other album 
— known as album 7 — the same week, also from Hit-ler's home, called the Berg­hof. Both are now deceased. 


"When you consider what these solders went through, slogging their way through the loss of buddies, through horrible weather conditions, fighting, combat, etc., and then this momentous occa­sion when they had a chance to take a deep breath, go up there to the Berghof for no reason than to be able to tell their families and fu­ture generations, 'I stood where Hitler's home was,'" Edsel said. "That's what mo­tivated the taking of these things." 
Larson's daughter, Sandra Runde of Rapid City, S.D., said that she can remember her father taking the album out once or twice when she was growing up. Runde said her father, who returned from the war to take a job sweeping the floors at a res­taurant supply company be­fore eventually buying it and working there till he was 80, didn't talk about the war and didn't elaborate on the album beyond saying that it was from Hitler's home. 
“It was just tucked away somewhere,” Runde said. 
Runde said her father, who died on his 87th birthday in 2009, gave the album to her about five years before he died. She said she’s happy that it’s now somewhere safe where people can appreciate it. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, March 28, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Blessed Nets fan 
For most of my life, I believed the sports gods, those mythical beings who determine the fate of professional sports teams, would always be generous to me. As a New York Yankees and New York Giants fan, I have witnessed my profes­sional sports teams Brian Hartnett win seven champion­ships in my lifetime. Sports Writer 
Somewhere along the way, however, I violated a cardinal rule for New York-area sports fans, one certain to condemn me to a disappointing fan ex­perience: I chose to support the New Jersey Nets, possibly the most irrelevant franchise in professional sports. 
I know what you’re thinking. 

Yes, it’s those Nets, the team who is relegated to the 50-minute mark of SportsCenter. 
Yes, it’s those Nets, the team whose most recognizable player is forward Kris Humphries, better known as the former “Mr. Kardashian.” 
Yes, it’s those Nets, the team whose home, Prudential Center, resembles a sea of black during games due to the large volume of no-shows. 
My reasons for liking the Nets seemed innocent enough. As a resident of the much-maligned Garden State, I felt im­mense pride at seeing a team representing New Jersey instead of the big metropolis across the Hudson River. 
Truth be told, being a Nets fan wasn’t painful initially, as my first years watching the team coincided with the Nets reaching consecutive NBA finals behind the play of flashy point guard Jason Kidd. 
Naturally, the Nets management proved to be its biggest enemy and returned the team to its familiar cellar-dwelling position in a few years, trading off the team’s stars and inexplicably deciding to move it to the greener ... errr, more concrete pastures of Brooklyn for the 2012-13 season. 
As a result, the Nets currently resemble a rag-tag band of basketball misfits, a re­volving door of uninspiring young players and washed-up veterans that have made a habit of losing. 
And yet I still watch, even as the Nets coast to their fifth straight losing season. Why? 
As cliché as it sounds, watching the Nets has allowed me to appreciate the little things in sports. With no grandiose expec­tations for the team, I can enjoy witnessing talented rookie guard Marshon Brooks emerge into a contributor, or watching forward Gerald Green perform spectacular dunks. I relish seeing the rare occurrences when center Johan Petro remembers he’s an NBA player and watching star point guard Deron Williams carry the team to victory, as he did in an impressive 57-point performance earlier this month. 
I also tune in, well, because I don’t really have a choice — my two younger brothers have made it a goal to become the biggest Nets fans alive and watch their games the same way I watch Notre Dame football, screaming, questioning every decision and showing no restraint in cheering. From watching the team, we have created great memories, the latest of which involved us going to a Nets game for the price of a movie ticket. 
So, although I endure another season with no playoff hopes for the Nets, I find myself strangely at peace. After all, as I write this column I spy a Super Bowl XVLI Champions shirt on my desk, as well as a calendar marked with the date of the Yan­kees season-opener. Yes, I think the sports gods still like me. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at      bhartnet@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Crunch time in the dining halls 
The most important campus elec­tion of the year was held a week ago today, but hardly anyone I’ve asked had any idea it happened. I am referring to Notre Dame Food Services’ Annual Serious Cereal Survey, which de-Arnav Dutt termined which cereals are to fill Guest Our Lady’s grana-Columnist ries next year. We are certainly fortunate to go to a school that allows us to democratically elect our breakfast cereal options, particu­larly when we are not free to choose our student leadership (slightly more irony than a bowl of Kellogg Product 19, no?). Though I understand that these elections are a privilege and not a right, I feel the urge to bite the hand that feeds. What good do these elections do, anyway, if they aren’t done right? 
I am convinced that Food Services is committed to administering fair and transparent elections, the purpose of which is to satisfy as many of the Dining Halls’ patrons as possible. It attempts to do this through a two-day election process. At lunchtime on the first day, (Monday, March 11 this year), Dining Hall grazers were given the opportunity to try out as many of the contenders as they could. 
On the second day, lunch patrons voted by selecting their three “favorite” cereals from a long list of options. They were to number these options one to three, based on preference. The only other stipulations were that spots will be reserved next year for students with various allergies. Past years have made a bigger deal of the event itself — for example, some of you may remember last year when Tony the Tiger, Toucan Sam and their campaigns visited North Dining Hall. There is something for everyone in these elections. 
But there are a number of things 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
wrong with the process, not the least of which is a publicity problem. The elec­tions need to be better promulgated. I’m talking ad campaigns, snazzy posters, mascots, loud music, “Rock the Vote” events, stump speeches and the like. Very few people know we have a cereal election at all, and fewer still could tell you what day they’re going to be held any given year. I myself am one of the former group, though I clearly I am all about this election. 
I must admit I am a little confused by the move to allow everyone to test out the challengers. It is as if Food Services wants us to make decisions informed solely on taste. But there are other important criteria to evaluate as well — we ought to be given time to glance over candidates’ nutritional facts, we ought to be given time to think over our votes in general and we ought to be able to judge incumbents based on their record in office. Does anyone actually eat Blue­berry Morning? It ought to be account­able for that. I imagine the Dining Halls have a pretty good idea of which cereals are popular and which aren’t. 
Why, for that matter, should our most popular cereals’ seats go up for reelec­tion at all? Popular cereals shouldn’t need to be elected again. If people eat way more Frosted Mini-Wheats than they do anything else, why should we have to spend our precious votes to renew our subscription? Actually we probably won’t. Have you ever won­dered why there are no Cheerios in North Dining Hall? It isn’t because people don’t like them. But if I am given three weighted votes, I will give undue preference to my special interests. 
I love Frosted Mini-Wheats, Cheerios, Smart Start, Cinnamon Toast Crunch and Kashi, in that order. But I can only vote for three of them. And so, had I voted, I would have voted for the last three (which are slightly more esoteric preferences than the others) and relied on others to vote for Cheerios and Mini-Wheats. Surely, this behavior explains why we have so many options, but no Cheerios. 
Along those lines, this election really ought to be more of a special interests election. The onus should not be on the voters to balance conflicting inter­ests. When we cast our ballots, we are electing more than just cereal. We are inadvertently endorsing ways of life. To prioritize Lucky Charms or Fruit Loops over granola is to prioritize fun over health. Why on earth is that responsi­bility placed in our hands? Also, since when can you make valid comparisons between healthy cereals and fun ones? They are apples and oranges. 
We should not have to choose our cereals off one gigantic list. Rather, we should be asked to choose one from each category, so that we don’t wake up one morning to discover that there are four healthy choices scattered among a wasteland of Cookie Crisp, Cocoa Peb­bles, Fruity Pebbles, Trix and the like. By the way, the last two are the same exact thing. If you think they aren’t, go back to high school. 
Last, and most importantly: Disclose the results! If you want people to show up for the election, they need to believe that their votes count! Right now, this election is little more than a mysterious and unpredictable process that is full of unexpected upsets. You get the picture; we already have March Madness, and we like it better. Take this cereal survey a little more seriously. If anyone can give this student body an election that matters, it’s you. 
Arnav Dutt is a junior. He can be reached at adutt1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We have too many high sounding words, and too few actions that correspond with them.” 
Abigail Adams Former first lady 

WEEKLY POLL 
What are you giving up for Lent? 
Huddle candy Facebook stalking Super Smash Brothers Naps 

Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Wednesday, March 28, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
The short skirt and the hoodie 
I actually remember when I learned what “rape” meant. I was in grade school and a city bus passed by when I was in the car with my mother. The big advertisement on the side of the bus showed a 
woman, obviously distressed, with a black background and big red words: “It’s not your fault. It’s rape.” After what must have been a conversa­tion that my mom was not expecting 



at that moment, I understood. Of course it was not the woman’s fault! It was the fault of the rapist! 

But agency is too often lost in the conversation. Most of the time, “she was raped.” Or, to make matters worse, “She was raped because her skirt was too low; she was asking for it.” Where’s the mention of the rapist? The “short” nature of the skirt actu­ally veils the entire responsibility of the rapist. This is a common discus­sion on how we talk about something as horrible as rape. Unfortunately, the passive, place-responsibility-on-the­victim response is all too common in these conversations and a dangerous sentiment that moves into multiple sectors of our socio-cultural dialogue. 
In my columns, I’ve written about rhetoric that is violent, divisive and that effectively evades addressing the actual issues. But nothing is more rel­evant now than the response rhetoric by some to Trayvon Martin’s death. President Obama’s, “If I had a son he’d look like Trayvon,” comment says a lot about the nature of dialogue that we have entered into as a nation, and it’s a good thing. President Obama’s com­ment, specifically, is appropriate be­cause it focuses on the victim and his humanity. The Million Hoodie Marches that have erupted because of the inad­equate response by the Sanford police department also focus on Trayvon — “Our son is your son,” said his mother. 
But Geraldo Rivera of FOX News shared a sentiment that, like in the rhetoric on rape and sexual assault, does not view Trayvon as a son, but as an accomplice to his own murder, someone who is as much accountable for his own death as George Zimmer­man. Rivera’s “different take” on the issue goes like this: 
“I believe that George Zimmerman, the overzealous neighborhood watch-captain, should be investigated to the fullest extent of the law and if he is criminally liable he should be pros­ecuted. But I am urging the parents of black and Latino youngsters, particu­larly, to not let their children go out wearing hoodies. I think the hoodie is as much responsible for Trayvon Martin’s death as George Zimmerman was. ... He wore an outfit that allowed someone to respond in this irrational, overzealous way.” 
This is the reaction and the ratio­nale that we have to worry about. It is license; it is excuse; it is distraction. It says to the victim, speak quietly, you never know when you’ll be asking for it; it says to those who foster prejudic­es, continue living with them; it says to the community, blame an article of clothing for the death, or the rape, or the beating or the discrimination. 
Our clothing can say a lot about how we define ourselves, what we view as style, the message on our t-shirt that we want to send or the sports teams that we support. But our clothing says nothing about our intentions. The man in the suit and tie is just as likely to rob you of your money as the man wearing the hoodie. 
Getting past our internal prejudices is something that Cornel West de­scribes as “a perennial struggle”: “To recognize that the evil is inside each and every one of us, in part because of that treacherous terrain called his­tory that has shaped, socialized and acculturated us.” So, it is true that we cannot view the crime as beginning and ending with the criminal. Crime must always be viewed within a wider context than just the perpetrator. But that wider context means taking a look at our prejudices and confronting them — trying to eliminate our preju­dices instead of safeguarding them. We cannot progress as a society when prejudices become the determinants for our deemed-to-be moral behavior, instead of moral behavior being the foundation to eliminate our prejudices. If we are passive in the dialogue, if we are passive in the response, if we lessen the accountability of the perpe­trator by unloading that burden on the victim, then we are fostering a culture that says it is ok for people to shoot 17-year-old boys or for people to rape women. 
It is not the hoodie’s fault or the skirt’s fault. We have to examine prejudices and this evasive rhetoric and move beyond both. Murder is the fault of a murderer; rape the fault of the rapist. Let’s not give them any excuses, because our society cannot afford excuses. 
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A blast from the past 
Dear SUB, 

I just wanted to say thank you for getting 1999’s hottest band, Third Eye Blind, to per­form this past weekend! I couldn’t have been more excited! My roommates and I chatted on AIM about it pre-concert and then celebrated afterwards by watching all their appearances on TRL! Also, Hoodie Allen’s opening was amazing. Anytime you get a rapper from an Ivy League school, it’s a guaranteed success. In a competition between “who would I recog­nize the least if they were walking by me on the street,” he would definitely beat Sammy Adams (wait, wasn’t he here last week too?) So here’s to you, SUB. Thanks again! 
Tim Keebler 
senior off campus 
Se Kim 
senior off campus 
Jack Mannion 
senior off campus 
John Reardon 
senior off campus March 26 

Dear Americ-uh 
To the young woman who left a note on my ve­hicle. 
Yesterday, I was heading out with my fellow companions when I came across a letter on the windshield of my vehicle. You can only imagine my surprise as I excitedly hurried to read it. It was a note remarking on my fantastic parking skills. Let me take a moment to relive the letter for you. 
“Dear Kung 
Please park far, far away next time (preferably China).  
-Americ-uh” 
I was very much ecstatic at the mention of a new nickname — tickled, even. I did not know this individual, and yet they had taken the burden on themselves of fashioning me a new nickname — a very creative, well-thought-out one at that. Now, I consider myself quite a patient person and I do un­derstand that my parking skills are far from superb. I do make mistakes — I will, of course, admit that. And honestly, I would have been appreciative of any note on parking pointers. 
If I had received a polite note, I would have nod­ded my head in appreciation for your wisdom and observation; if I had received a hot-tempered threat, I would have been appalled that I had upset some-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
one so greatly and would’ve sought to apologize; or perhaps if I had received a vulgar message, I might have chuckled a little bit, shook my head and then gone on my merry way. However, the one thing that I do not tolerate to any extent is racism. 
It disheartens me knowing that this past week was full of race awareness, but then a letter like this arrives on my windshield. I understand that you like to be known as “Americ-uh” but I hope I do not hurt your feelings if I refrain from calling you this in person. I do hope that you were not going so far as to claim your representation of the entire United States with this note. I, as an American, would not like to represented by this, so please, if you are go­ing to refer to yourself as anything, please do not let it be my country. I wish to continue believing that my country does not possess this ignorance and ha­tred. And please, the next time you desire to spread racism upon the cars of others, do not brag about your deeds in Ryan Hall’s restroom because there is always the chance you might be heard … or seen. 
With much love, 
Kung 
Angela Campbell 
senior Ryan Hall March 27 





1. Thou shalt not ride a scooter to class. 
You look like you beat some 7-year­old kid at foursquare, and then took his pride and joy as a victory token. Getting one of the F-14 scooters Sean Fitzgerald from Notre Dame’s fleet Scene Writer of electric powered vehicles is completely acceptable, though. 
2. Thou shalt not wear thy Frosh-O T-Shirt more than once a week. 
Your first experience at Notre Dame introduced you to the complete­ly normal gender relations we have at 


this university.  You met your Frosh-O date and proceeded to walk hand­in-hand to Stepan, only to promptly ditch her for your “real” friends. Seriously though, you don’t need to wear a t-shirt every day of the week. 
3. Thou shalt adhere to thy theme of thy SYR/Dorm Party. 
Toga! Toga! Toga! If someone is willing to send you a Facebook invite and then proceed to fill you with their own hard-earned beverages one night, at least give them the common courtesy of showing up in the requested attire. Showing up fashionably late though is highly encouraged. 
4. Thou shalt not wear jeans that are skinnier than hers. 
If your girlfriend could wear them, then put them down. I beg you to put them down. Leave the skinny jeans to the better half.  Actually, just give them to her.  It will make her happy, and she’ll look good in them. It’s a win-win. 
5. Thou shalt not pop thy collar of a collared shirt/polo for any reason. 
One of the many reasons we love “The Jersey Shore.” One of the many rea­sons you shouldn’t do it. 
6. Thou shalt not marinate in thy cologne. 
Science isn’t even on your side.  A study published in the European Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology (I do my homework, people) concludes cologne actually inhibits your attractiveness.  Apparently, cologne masks your natural scent. Note: Do not confuse B.O. with your natural scent — B.O. is never attrac­tive. 
7. Thou shalt get to know thy tailor, or meet one if thou doth not know one. 
Your tailor is what Sam is to Frodo or Chewbacca is to Han Solo: He’ll save your life one day.  A tailored look is the difference between looking good and being really, really, ridiculously good looking. 
8. Thou shalt not sag. 
Your pants should not be that low. No woman will ever use the words “hand­some” and “sag” in the same sentence.  That should be enough of an incentive. 


9. Thou shalt not wear the same at­tire two days in a row…or more. 
If you don’t want to do laundry the solution is to “Suit Up!” I actually did this once. I got a lot of laughs when I told people why I was suited up. 
10. Thou shalt never look better than a Lady Domer or a Saint Mary’s Belle. 
This isn’t really a commandment, as it is a fact.  You could be in a perfectly cut three-piece suit and she could be in … well, anything, and look better than you.  Perplex­ing? Yes, but don’t question it if you still want to have friends, or possibly reach the elusive dream of ring by spring. 
Contact Sean Fitzgerald at sfitzge3@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those 
of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, March 28, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

By BRENNA WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 
Nutella is best described as “the food of the gods.” It is, as an Internet meme I recently saw aptly described, the thing that tastes better than skinny feels. I personally believe it has the power to bring anyone together 
— Nutella could be the key to world peace. The only thing that can make Nutella better is the addition of marshmallow fluff. Wrap those two ingredients up in puff pastry, bake to golden brown perfection and you have this week’s recipe: the Nutella Puff. 
With only five ingredients, which are easily found in the grocery store, this recipe is an easy and tasty way to show someone you care. Plus, puff pastry makes everything look fancier, so you can look like a pro baker with little effort! 
Ingredients: 
Nutella Marshmallow fluff Frozen puff pastry, thawed One egg, beaten 
Tip: Egg whites are fine. Sugar Tip: You can use Splenda or a sugar substitute. 
Directions: 
1.
 Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Unfold and cut the puff pastry into squares. It’s up to you how large    you want the pastries, but make sure there is plenty of room around the edges once the fillings have    been put in. 

2.
 Put a small spoonful of Nutella and marshmallow fluff in the middle of each puff pastry square. Tip: Fluff is one of the stickiest substances known to mankind. In order to avoid fighting with it, spray your spoon with cooking oil to keep it slick. 

3.
 Fold the square diagonally and seal the edges of the pastry by pressing them together with a fork. Tip: Make sure they are sealed well. The pastry, as indicated by the name, will puff up while bak ing and the edges will come apart unless well sealed. 

4.
 Brush the pastry with the egg and sprinkle a little bit of sugar on top. 

5.
 Bake at 350 degrees for 22 to 25 minutes, or until the pastry is lightly browned. Let them cool for five to    10 minutes before eating. 


In less than 30 minutes, with five ingredients you’ve got a delectable Nutella treat sure to make anyone your new best friend. Do you have a recipe you’d like to share with your fellow Domers? I’m always taking suggestions for new, fun and easy treats! 
Contact Brenna williams at bwillia9@nd.edu 

By TESSA DeMERS 
Scene Writer 

Head downtown to East Bank Emporium for casual or classy dining, delicious food and excellent atmo­sphere. 
East Bank Emporium is a restaurant located in downtown South Bend, in a quaint building full of little shops and rooms. Cute “This Way” signs lead diners wherever they may have the desire to go, giving the restaurant charm in the style of a rustic cabin. 
The Emporium categorizes its atmosphere as “ca­sual elegance,” and it is just that. Guests can choose to sit either outside or inside. The deck outside pro­vides a relaxed dining experience with fresh air and a beautiful view of the river, bridge and the Mor­ris Performing Arts Center (very nice when lit up at night). For a more fine-dining experience, diners should head inside for a dining room, complete with white tablecloths and romantic lighting. These two choices result in a broad spectrum of fashion in the guests dining at any particular time, from shorts and flip-flops to ties and cocktail dresses. 
The atmosphere of the Emporium is a really nice. The lighting, the air, the views all add to the experi­ence of the meal. Another important element at any restaurant is the service. The waiters at the Empo­rium are amazingly friendly and won’t hesitate to strike up a conversation with you. They do more than simply take your order, almost acting as if they are your old friends. 
The food selection is varied, mostly American style — steaks, seafood, sandwiches, chicken dishes — and will satisfy any palate. All dishes come with de­licious, hot-out-of-the-oven, doughy bread that fills your mouth with happy warmth. Another fan-favor­ite is the garlic-mashed potatoes, which should defi­nitely make an appearance on your plate, no matter what your main course is. 
As for the entrée, there is a varied selection of food from plates that center around meat to completely vegetarian dishes. If you are in the mood for steak, the Emporium has a wide range, from ribeye to fi­let mignon, and even within those categories, dif­ferent styles of seasonings. The Cajun Ribeye is very flavorful, using a fantastic blend of seasonings that work very well together — take it from someone from Louisiana. 
The steaks were slightly tough and difficult to cut, but that could be attributed to the fact that restau­rants have very different definitions of the levels of wellness, so they were a bit more cooked than usual­ly preferred. At any restaurant, take care to describe the level of wellness, or pinkness, you are looking for in your meat, as opposed to just giving the usual key words, like medium-rare or medium-well. 
The Polynesian Chicken was full of flavor as well, marinated in a special blend of ingredients and topped with pieces of pineapple. This dish is offered either by itself with pasta or rice, or as an addition to any of the steaks — in case you are feeling signifi­cantly hungry that night. 
Personally, my favorite part of any meal is dessert, and the Emporium’s did not disappoint. It had the usual selection of cheesecake, chocolate cake, and strawberry shortcake. In addition, the restaurant had a delicious chocolate take on the usual pecan pie, which came out warm and was extremely sat­isfying. 
This restaurant is a great option if you are look­ing to get away from the dining hall. It has a good atmosphere for special occasions, or is simply a nice spot to meet up with some friends. And with its close proximity to the Morris, it would be a great place to have dinner before a show. 
Contact tessa DeMers at tdemers@nd.edu 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The NL East is baseball’s most exciting division 
It includes baseball’s best team from 2011, a bevy of young talent, the most-renovated entity in the universe, the best bullpen in baseball and the New York Mets. 
Wel­come to the National League East, the most intriguing division in baseball. 
Pinstripes, century-old curses and the impres­sive Rays have been fun, but it is time for the base­ball world to shift some of its focus to the National League version of the AL East. 
It seems fitting to begin at the top. The Phillies, having won an MLB-best 102 games last season, will try to approach that impressive total again. Bad for the Phils are the departure of Roy Oswalt and the Achilles injury that will sideline their All-Star first baseman Ryan Howard for as much as two months. Good for the Phillies are Halladay, Lee and Hamels, along with Rollins, Pence, and Vic­torino. That will be more than good enough. 
Finishing second in the divi­sion last year, with 89 wins, the Atlanta Braves missed the playoffs after an embarrassing September collapse. Sophomore slugger Jason Heyward was injured and awful all year, the bullpen burned out down the stretch and second baseman Dan Uggla struggled to get his batting average above .200 dur­ing the first half of his introduc­tory season with the Bravos. 
However, there is much more to be optimistic about with the Braves than there is to be all ‘Houston-Astros-fan’ about. Uggla’s forearms are back and bigger than ever, and Hey-ward is a serious bounce-back candidate. Their last two weeks notwithstanding, Jonny Ven­ters and Craig Kimbrel pitched the best combined eighth and ninth innings of baseball in the majors, and seventh-inning specialist Eric O’Flaherty was absolute fire coming out of the bullpen, posting a 0.98 ERA and 67 strikeouts in 73.2 innings of work. With three highly-touted arms in Julio Teheran, Randall Delgado and Arodys Vizcaino ready to transition to the major leagues, the Braves’ bullpen should only get better. 
Another major story concern­ing the Braves is the nearing departure of Chipper Jones, who has pegged this season as his last. Entering his 19th season, the future Hall of Famer has already admitted he isn’t sure if his body will survive the season. Braves fans can almost certainly expect it won’t, especially since he will start the season on the DL. As it prepares to watch the face of its franchise’s golden age retire, Braves country should stand and cheer every time Larry trots out to third base this season. Standing ovation every inning. Seriously. 

The Washington Nationals served as the division’s median last year and racked up 81 vic­tories for the first winning sea­son in team history, as the Nats escaped from the NL East cel­lar for the first time since 2007. Amazingly, Washington made progress despite losing super-ace Stephen Strasburg, who pitched 24 innings in Septem­ber, striking out 24 batters and accumulating an ERA of 1.50, to Tommy John surgery. With Strasburg back and outfielder Bryce Harper on the way out of the minor leagues, Wash­ington should have no problem improving. In fact, the duo of Strasburg and Harper alone makes the Nationals one of the most interesting and promising teams in the sport. The Nation­als add reliever Brad Lidge to a bullpen that features Tyler Clippard and Drew Storen and bring in starters Gio Gonzalez and Edwin Jackson to join Strasburg and Jordan Zim­mermann. Also, first baseman Michael Morse has Giancarlo Stanton power. 
Speaking of Giancarlo, the Miami Marlins are begging for center stage after only 72 wins in 2011. New stadium, new logo, new uniform, new colors, new manager, new shortstop, new reliever, and a new name for their beast right fielder – but will they be the same dysfunctional Marlins? Perhaps Ozzie Guillen has the magic recipe (which, some­how, requires two of the best shortstops in baseball). Either way, the Marlins made the biggest splash of the offseason by luring Jose Reyes south and Heath Bell east. If they don’t implode, the Marlins could do something — If. 
Infinitely less interesting, the Mets will finish last. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Payton seeks Parcells’ counsel 
Associated Press 
PALM BEACH, Fla. — Sean Payton has planned the New Orleans Saints’ offseason, done some work on the up­coming draft and jotted down ideas for the start of training camp. 
And now, with his season-long suspension set to begin Sunday, he is checking to see if mentor Bill Parcells would run the team while he serves his penalty for allow­ing a Saints assistant coach and players to operate a crunch-for-cash bounty sys­tem. 
Speaking publicly for the first time since the Saints were sanctioned for tar­geting specific opponents, Payton said Tuesday he will soon decide whether to ap­peal his suspension, some­thing Commissioner Roger Goodell said he would allow. 
Payton also said he was meeting with Parcells, who lives near Palm Beach, site of the NFL meetings, to dis­cuss the plan for the season. 
“For me to be down here, if I didn’t call him or try to set up a time to see him, I’d probably get his wrath,” Payton said. 
Payton said he, general manager Mickey Loomis 
— who is facing an eight-game suspension — and team owner Tom Benson are weighing a number of sce­narios. Among them: Does Parcells want to coach? 
If he appeals, and he has until Monday, Goodell said he would “probably” allow him to continue working past the intended start of his suspension. Goodell also said he would expedite the appeal process and his deci­sion, meaning Payton might only get a few more days of work before having to step aside. 
The NFL’s investigation in New Orleans found that Pay­ton initially lied to league investigators about the ex­istence of a bounty and in­structed his defensive assis­tants to do the same. Payton twice apologized for his role in an enterprise that of­fered payouts for knocking out opponents, saying he takes “full responsibility” for a system that operated for three years under his watch. 
As many as 27 players could also be sanctioned for their role in the scandal. 
“As the head coach, any­thing that happens in the framework of your team and your program, you’re re­sponsible for,” Payton said. “And that’s a lesson I’ve learned. And it’s one that it’s easy to get carried away, in regards to a certain side of the ball or more involved of­fensively or defensively. And that’s something that I re­gret.” 
Payton said he was confi­dent he will coach the Saints again in 2013, and that his biggest challenge was realiz­ing that for the first time in 39 years, he may not have an ac­tive role in football as a player or coach. 
“You go through a range of emotions that kind of hit you,” Payton said. “You’re disap­pointed. You’re disappointed in yourself that it got to this point. I think we’re trained as coaches to begin prepara­tion right away. I find myself reflecting on it, and you go through a lot of emotions.” 
Asked if he might work in broadcasting this season, Payton said anyone in his po­sition would keep their op­tions open. He said he hasn’t been in touch with Gregg Wil­liams, the former Saints de­fensive coordinator who ran the bounty system and was suspended indefinitely. Asked if bounties were what he en­visioned when he asked Wil­liams to build a defense, he replied, “No, obviously not.” 
Much of the conversation revolved around Parcells, the two-time Super Bowl winner who hired Payton as an of­fensive assistant in Dallas in 2003 and was a finalist for the Hall of Fame this season. 
“He’s a great teacher,” Pay-ton said. “Certainly I’m bi­ased, having worked with him. But he’s a Hall of Fame head coach. And I would also say there’s some things prob­ably set up in the framework of our program that would be exactly how he would have set those things up had he been the head coach here in ‘06. So there’s some carry-over that way.” 


If Parcells returned to the sideline, he may have to wait another five years before be­coming eligible for the Hall of Fame again. Parcells, who turns 71 in August, may not want to wait that long. Asked by Sports Illustrated on Mon­day if he had a desire to coach another team, Parcells said, “I don’t think so.” 
In addition to the penal­ties for Payton and Loomis, the league suspended assis­tant head coach Joe Vitt for six games. Goodell also fined the Saints $500,000 and took away second-round draft choices in 2012 and 2013. 
Payton said he didn’t want the scandal to “taint or tar­nish” his team’s recent suc­cess. 
“We’ll get through this,” he said. “This will be a chal­lenge. ... You know, we’ve gone through a lot of adversity and we’ve won a lot of games in really a short window of time. And I know our players are leaders both within the locker room and the coaching staff will look at this as a challenge and a little bit as an opportu­nity.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR RENT PERSONAL UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t WANTED Born on this day: 1972 - Shannon Mitchell, NFL tight go it alone. Notre Dame has many end (San Diego Chargers) resources in place to assist you. 1971 - Wesley Person, NBA guard 1972 - Nick Frost, English House for rent. GREAT LOCATION A Baby is a Blessing: Adoption Paid Lead Summer Counselor 1972 - Derek West, offensive comedian and actor 
- close to campus. 3BR $600 per We’re both educators who value If you or someone you love needs Position Check out summer jobs tackle (Indianapolis Colts) 
bedroom. Utilities included. learning, family and our happy 8 confidential support or assistance, at jobs.nd.edu for TRiO Upward 1973 - Eddie Fatu, Samoan yr marriage. We’ll give your child please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. Bound summer counselor 1972 - Keith Tkachuk, NHL left professional wrestler a happy home, a stay-at-home For more information, visit ND’s postions. wing mom and a large, devoted Catholic website at: 1974 - K.C. Jones, NFL center family (9 cousins and growing!). 1972 - Michael Smith, NBA forward We very much look forward to Go Irish. talking to you. Call Kim & Robert Office 574-631-5669 email 1972 - Mike Morton, NFL 
Call 574-272-2940 (855) 788-2810. http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu m.lindley@nd.edu linebacker Imik Simik 
MLB 

Wada struggles in first spring start as Orioles lose 
Associated Press Twins right-hander Anthony 
Swarzak, making his first start 

SARASOTA, Fla. — The after four relief appearances, first spring start for Japanese struck out three over 3 2-3 hit­left-hander less innings. He Ts uyoshi retired the first Wada didn’t eight batters 
go exactly how the Bal­timore Ori­oles planned it — not in length of ap­pe a r a n c e , and certain­ly not in the results. Wada gave up four runs  “We like the guy a lot. It’s just another progression. Usually, this time of year, I wouldn’t say there’s more intensity, but there’s a sense of urgency with the games, so it’s a good barometer to see where he is physically and everything..”  before Rule 5 pick Ryan Fla­herty walked in the third. Matt Wieters and Mark Reynolds walked with two outs in the fourth, and Swarzak was done for the day.  
and four hits in three in­nings dur- Buck Showalter Orioles manager  The were until Orioles hitless  Robert  
ing  the  Andino  dou- 
M i n n e s o t a  bled  off  Glen  
Twins’  5-0  Perkins  with  

victory Tuesday. Wada walked one out in the eighth and was two, struck out three and was thrown out going for a triple. It pulled from his abbreviated was Baltimore’s only hit of the performance an inning before game. planned. Wada, who signed a two-year, $8.15 million contract over the winter, is competing with left-hander Brian Matusz for the fifth spot in the Orioles’ rotation. Wada was brought along slowly after inflamma­tion in his left elbow delayed his first appearance. 
He could end up in the bull­pen as a long reliever, but that’s not how he’s viewed at the mo­ment. 
“I just want him to attack the rest of his time down here and hopefully get to five or six innings, and that leaves our options to us,” manager Buck Showalter said. “Right now, we’re looking at him as a start­er, and I don’t want him think­ing anything else.” 
Wada threw two innings in relief against the Atlanta Braves on March 18 in his oth­er Grapefruit League game, allowing one run and one hit with three strikeouts. 

The Orioles wanted Wada to go four innings against the pitches in the first and 30 in the Twins, but after he threw 18 second, the leash shortened. 


“It didn’t go that well. I’m not satisfied,” he said through his translator. “I wasn’t able to throw correctly with my normal form today. The first-pitch strike with the fastball I pitched was hit easily. I have to work on it more.” 
Wada gave up a run and two hits in the first inning, then al­lowed three runs on two hits and two walks in the second, the key hit a two-run double by Jamey Carroll. 
“If I keep pitching like this, I know I won’t be able to throw and be in the starting rota­tion,” Wada said. “I might not even be able to throw in gener­al (for the Orioles) if I keep up throwing like this. I was trying to have fun today; and it wasn’t awkward or anything. I liked the atmosphere. I was really looking forward to pitching to­day. That’s why I feel sorry for the crowd that came here to watch me.” 
Asked if he’s believes that he’s running out of time to make the team, Wada replied, “Yes, I do.” 
Showalter isn’t going to judge Wada on one start. 
“We like the guy a lot,” Show-alter said. “It’s just another progression. Usually, this time of year, I wouldn’t say there’s more intensity, but there’s a sense of urgency with the games, so it’s a good barometer to see where he is physically and everything.” 
Swarzak hadn’t gone more than 2 1-3 innings before Tues­day, and he was carrying a 
6.35 ERA in 5 2-3 innings. He retired 11 of the first 12 batters he faced before the back-to­back walks in the fourth. 
“I don’t care if it’s spring training or the regular season. It doesn’t matter. That’s unac­ceptable,” Swarzak said of the walks. “But back to the posi­tive, definitely a good outing, definitely a step in the right direction. I felt a lot of good things in my delivery today. I was working downhill when I needed to. I had a few misfires, but was able to get back to what I was working on. That’s always a good sign this early in the season. 
“I’ve been told they’re going to stretch me out. That’s all they’ve told me, and that’s OK with me. The less I know, the better at this point.” 
The Twins added a run off Chris Tillman in the fifth when Carroll walked, stole second and scored on Justin Morneau’s one-out single. 

TENNIS 

After defeating Federer, Roddick falls to Monaco 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. — The buzz Andy Roddick got from beat­ing Roger Federer turned into a hangover Tuesday, when Juan Monaco became a real headache. 
Less than 24 hours after his upset win over Federer, Roddick endured a drubbing against Mo­naco, 7-5, 6-0. 
Monaco, a patient baseliner seeded 21st, was unfazed by Rod­dick’s big serve, and the match became a succession of long ral­lies. Roddick began to look weary as the match progressed and stumbled after several shots as the match slipped away. 
For Roddick, the performance was a big comedown after he beat Federer for only the third time in 24 tries, temporarily si­lencing critics who say he should consider retirement. 
Roddick’s ranking has slipped to 34th, his lowest since 2001. He might return to the top 30 next week. 
No. 2-seeded Maria Sharapo­va became the first semifinal­ist when she drubbed reigning French Open champion Li Na 6-3, 6-0. Sharapova had lost their previous four meetings. 
“I just really wanted to change that,” she said, “so I was extreme­ly focused and, you know, looking forward to the match.” 
Sharapova seeks her first Key Biscayne title. She lost the final in 2005, 2006 and last year. 
In other men’s fourth-round play, No. 2 Rafael Nadal swept five consecutive games midway through his match and beat No. 16-seeded Kei Nishikori 6-4, 6-4. 
The victory was by far Nadal’s most taxing of the tournament, and he took a medical timeout late in the opening set for treat­ment of his troublesome left knee. Even so, he’s one round closer to his first Key Biscayne title. 
“I am not probably in perfect condition today with the left knee,” he said. “But the impor­tant thing is to try to win as many matches as possible. For me this is an important tournament, and every victory has very, very big value for me, especially without being perfect.” 
Nadal, a three-time runner-up at Key Biscayne, lost the final last year to Novak Djokovic, and they could meet again Sunday. The top-ranked Djokovic reached the final eight by beating No. 17-seed­ed Richard Gasquet 7-5, 6-3. 
No. 8 Mardy Fish edged No. 12 Nicolas Almagro 6-3, 6-7 (2), 6-3. Fish was relegated to the grand­stand court for the third consec­utive match, even though he’s the top-ranked American man, but the slight didn’t faze him. 
“I certainly want to play on stadium court,” Fish said. “But they’ve got to put someone out on the grandstand, and who’s that going to be? Are you going to put Federer out there, or Djokovic, or Nadal, or Serena? I’m not go­ing to go ahead of those guys as far as people coming to watch them play. You’ve got to go where you’ve got to go.” 
Monaco’s victory spoiled a po­tential quarterfinal matchup be­tween former high school team­mates Fish and Roddick — not that fans seemed disappoint­ed. Thanks to Miami’s large Argentine population, Monaco enjoyed strong support from the stadium crowd, with fans singing in Spanish between points. 


The victory by the 27-year­old Monaco wasn’t a shock. He has played well this year, win­ning Vina del Mar last month for his fourth career title and first since 2007. 
Nadal has been bothered by his knee since Indian Wells, where he lost to Federer in the semifinals two weeks ago. Nine games into his match against Nishikori, Nadal called a med­ical timeout and had a trainer tape his leg. 
MLB 

Diamondbacks to give state lawmakers free tickets 
Associated Press Team President Derrick Hall anything at the game, but D-Phoenix, said she hadn’t posed in the wake of the Fi­
said the free tickets provided Dorn said his lobbying firm, decided yet whether to ac-esta Bowl scandal to tighten 
PHOENIX — It’s been a legislators are part of a tra-which has other clients be-cept opening day tickets, but the state’s gift and disclo­year since the Fiesta Bowl dition that he started about sides the Diamondbacks, she said she’d pay for them sure requirements remains scandal embarrassed legis-six years ago to make open-separately had invited law-if she does, as she said she’d bottled up in the Legislature, lators, but at least some Ari-ing day a community cel-makers to a pregame gather-done previously. not getting hearings. zona lawmakers still like their ebration. ing at a nearby restaurant. McCune Davis said the real “I think the public expects perks. “It’s just focused on open-Rep. Debbie McCune Davis, issue is that legislation pro-us to take action,” she said. 
The Arizona Diamondbacks ing day, making that more of have again offered free tickets a special event,” Hall said. to legislators for the baseball He also said the team makes team’s first game of the sea-sure it complies with all ap­son, and a team executive said plicable laws. Tuesday that at least 40 of the The team’s website says 90 senators and representa-tickets for opening day range tives have accepted so far. from $5 to $160, but Hall 
“A good time,” said Rep. Do-said the tickets that legis­ris Goodale, R-Kingman, said lators will get will likely be when asked what she she’ll get unsold ones for lower-price out of going to the game April seats in Chase Field’s upper 
6. deck. 
Lawmakers won’t break any Hall said the team doesn’t rules by accepting the passes. consider the event as a lob-And Sen. Judy Burges, R-Sun bying move, and team lob-City West, said the tickets byist Tom Dorn said the only she’s accepting for herself and legislative issue that he has her husband provide an op-worked on for the team so portunity for lawmakers to far this session has been a socialize and get to know each still-pending bill to allow other away from the pressure-guns in public buildings. cooker of the Capitol. The legislation has been 
The Fiesta Bowl scandal has amended to exclude public-led to criminal charges al-ly-owned venues such as the leging bowl personnel were sports stadium used by the illegally reimbursed for cam-baseball team. paign contributions. The poli-“We simply want to protect ticians involved apparently our fans,” Dorn said. weren’t aware of the scheme. Burges said she consid-
In a separate issue that di-ered the Fiesta Bowl scandal rectly touched legislators, the when deciding whether ac-Fiesta Bowl’s internal inves-cepting the Diamondbacks’ tigation found that numer-offer would be an image ous lawmakers accepted free problem for the Legislature. game tickets and trips to col-She said she concluded lege football games. Many had that the Fiesta Bowl’s of-not reported them on financial ferings made to other law-disclosure forms. makers were in a different 
A prosecutor who investi-league. “Those tickets to the gated whether legislators vio-football games were very ex-lated gift and disclosure laws pensive,” she said. concluded no prosecution was Goodale said there are no warranted because state laws strings attached to accepting are so complex and contradic-the seats that she described tory. as “up in the rafters.” 
The Diamondbacks’ give-“I never, ever take any-away doesn’t violate the state’s thing with any expecta­general ban on giving gifts to tion there’s a return. That’s lawmakers because the offer clear,” Goodale said. is made to all 90 members of Hall said the team wasn’t the Legislature. providing lawmakers with 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Baylor’s dunking Griner headlines AP All-America team 
Associated Press 
Brittney Griner has dominated women’s basketball all season. 
Now the 6-foot-8 junior phe­nom is a unanimous selection to The Associated Press’ All-America team Tuesday, a day after leading the unbeaten Lady Bears to their second Final Four in three seasons. 
She was joined on the squad by Stanford’s Nnemkadi Ogwumike, Notre Dame’s Skylar Diggins, Delaware’s Elena Delle Donne and Maryland’s Alyssa Thomas. 
“That would be a very strong team,” Griner said. “I feel sorry for anyone who would have to play us.” 
Griner, who was on the first team for the second straight year, hasn’t taken pity on her op­ponents. She has the Lady Bears two wins away from becoming the first team in NCAA history to go 40-0. 
“I would never have thought it would be like this. It’s amazing,” Griner said. “Sometimes you for­get what you’ve done. You don’t sit back and enjoy it as you’re so focused on a goal. It definitely has been a great year so far. I hope it finishes the right way, too.” 
Griner has been incredible all season, but raised her game over the past month. She’s averaging 
23.4 points, 9.4 rebounds and 5.2 blocks this season. Throw in two incredible dunks in the NCAA tournament and she’s been un­stoppable. 
Griner and Ogwumike received 200 points and were unanimous choices by the 40-member na­tional media panel that votes in the weekly Top 25. It’s the fifth straight season that there has been at least one unanimous choice. Voting was done before the NCAA tournament. 
Ogwumike, who averaged 22.3 points and 10.3 rebounds, had been on the second team the past two seasons and was thrilled to make the first team this year. Yet she was more excited that her sister Chiney earned second team honors. 
“Not a lot of people can say they play with their sister and win an award,” the Stanford se­nior forward said. “I’m really proud of Chiney. She even has more to grow on as she’s only a sophomore. For her to be one of the top players in the country as a sophomore is remarkable.” 
The Ogwumikes became the first sisters to be All-Americans in the same season. In 2009, Oklahoma’s Courtney Paris earned first team honors while her sister was honorable men­tion. Kelly Miller of Georgia made the first team in 2001 while her sister Coco was honorable men­tion. It’s never happened on the men’s side, either. 
Diggins became the first Notre Dame player to make the first team since Ruth Riley did it in consecutive years in 2000 and 2001. The junior guard was in­strumental in helping the Irish win their first outright Big East regular season championship, averaging 16.6 points and 5.7 as­sists. Diggins knows that she’d probably have a lot more assists if she was playing with this All-American squad. 
“I’d love to be the floor gen­eral for that team,” Diggins said. “I’d probably average 20 assists. I can tell you right now, we’d be undefeated, we’d win every game by double digits.” 
Delle Donne carried Delaware to unprecedented heights this season. The 6-foot-5 junior led the nation in scoring averaging 
28.1 points. She helped the Blue Hens go undefeated in the Colo­nial Athletic Association, win the conference tournament for the first time and earn their first Top 25 ranking. She capped off the season by getting the Blue Hens their first NCAA tournament vic­tory. 
Now she’s the school’s initial first team All-American. She was on the third team two seasons ago. 
“This is truly a great honor to be considered among the top women’s basketball players in the country,” Delle Donne said. “I am proud to represent the Uni­versity of Delaware and I share this honor with my teammates and the coaching staff. Although the season ended earlier than we had hoped, this past year is one that I will always remember.” 


Thomas guided Maryland to the ACC tournament champion­ship and was the conference’s player of the year as a sopho­more. She also has helped the Terrapins reach the NCAA tour­nament regional final. 
“This is such an honor to be named an AP All-American as a sophomore because there’s so many great players in the coun­try.” 
Joining Chiney Ogwumike on the second team were Baylor sophomore Odyssey Sims, Miami senior Shenise Johnnson, Ohio State senior Samantha Prahalis and Wisconsin-Green Bay senior Julie Wojta. 
The third-team members: Con­necticut senior Tiffany Hayes, Kentucky junior A’dia Mathies, Duke freshman Elizabeth Wil­liams, Tennessee senior Shek­inna Stricklen and Miami senior Riquna Williams. 
It marked only the second time since the All-America team was first honored in 1995 that no Tennessee or Connecticut player made either the first or second team. It also happened in 2005. 
The preseason All-America team was Griner, Diggins, Og­wumike, Johnson and Stricklen. 


MLB 

Napoli homers twice, Rangers beat Padres 
SURPRISE, Ariz. — Rang­ers manager Ron Washington wasn’t going to take any chances with his starting shortstop. 
Elvis Andrus left Tuesday’s game against a San Diego Pa­dres split squad after the second inning, but Texas went on to a 10-9 victory behind Mike Napo­li’s two homers. 
“Once he said he felt a little tightness in his quad we took him out,” Washington said. “We didn’t give him a chance to say nothing.” 
Andrus came out with a tight right hip flexor muscle. He was 0 for 1 with an RBI. 
Washington said he’ll hold Andrus out of the lineup Wednesday but plans to start him Thursday night against San Francisco. 
Napoli hit his first two home runs of the spring and Ian Kin­sler had three hits for Texas. 
“The two balls to Napoli weren’t good pitches on my part,” Padres starter Cory Lu­ebke said. “But I think that re­sults sometimes can be a little deceiving.” 
Luebke gave up five runs, eight hits and a walk over 4 1-3 in­nings, striking out six. Projected as San Diego’s No. 2 starter, the left-hander had allowed only three runs in 14 innings during his four previous starts. 
“I feel good,” Luebke said. “I got up to about 90 pitches and still had a lot left in the tank.” 
Jeremy Hermida homered on consecutive pitches in the first and third for the Padres. Jeff Gyorko, Yasmani Grandal and Andy Parrino also went deep for San Diego. 
“The ball was flying out of here today,” Washington said. “If you got it up it was leaving.” 
Joey Butler tripled home the tying run in the bottom of the ninth and scored on a wild pitch to win it. 
After the Padres scored twice in the top of the ninth to take a 9-8 lead, Matt Kata led off the bottom half with a double off Alex Hinshaw. Butler followed with a triple into the right-field corner. 
Texas has won consecutive games for the first time since the opening week of Cactus League play. 
Left-hander Robbie Ross led a parade of Rangers relievers to the mound, allowing two runs on four hits and a walk in two innings. He struck out one. 
“He had a lot of fight in him,” Washington said. “You’re not go­ing to be perfect in this game but he kept coming and that’s what we want to see.” 

Aoki 
continued from page 20 
the game, but we battled back and responded well later.” 
The Flames tallied one more run to gain a 4-0 advantage before the Irish (15-8, 3-0 Big East) answered with a rally of their own when Irish junior catcher and Big East honor roll member Joe Hudson’s RBI triple provided a spark. With the score at 4-1, Irish sopho­more outfielder and Chicago product Eric Jagielo started off the sixth inning with a double, eventually scoring on a sacrifice fly that brought the game within two runs. Then a critical UIC error allowed two more runs to come in for the Irish, and sophomore first-baseman Trey Mancini hit a solo shot in seventh to give the Irish a 5-4 lead. 
Throughout the season, Notre Dame has continued to show its toughness when be­hind in games. 
“I think that we have a good group of guys that do a good job of competing,” Aoki said. “There is definitely a sense of resiliency. We went down against Pitt over the weekend and came back, too.” 
The difference on this par­ticular night, though, was Notre Dame’s inability to seal the victory. In the bot­tom of the seventh inning, UIC executed small-ball ef­fectively, forcing the Irish into mistakes. The Flames laid down a sacrifice bunt that led to an Irish error, ty­ing the game at 5-5. UIC ju­nior outfielder Nick Addison then put down another bunt that put runners on the cor­ners, which extended the in­ning and allowed for two RBI singles to push the UIC ad­vantage to 7-5. In the eighth inning, the Flames continued their trend by threatening to squeeze bunt, which forced a wild pitch and allowed an­other run to score, making it 8-5. 
“We were kicking the ball around in those innings a little bit,” Aoki said. “Our defense has let us down, but hopefully that is a phase.” 
The Notre Dame bats qui­eted in the eighth and ninth innings, as UIC retired the side in both innings to earn the victory. Aoki said there has been a common thread in the team’s losses. 
“We just need to under­stand that this is the third game that we haven’t taken care of,” Aoki said. “We aided in a lot of Michigan’s rallies, and against Purdue in the same way. We threw the ball around against a really qual­ity team tonight, too, that we otherwise had under control. Fielding is a point of empha­sis for us, but unfortunately we seem to make our errors in bunches, while in between we do a pretty good job of taking care of the ball.” 
With this focus in mind, Notre Dame will look to get back on the right track against Big East foe South Florida Friday night. 
“It’s a good, young group and maybe these are things you need to learn as a youth­ful team,” Aoki said. “Hope­fully we can get back on the right track.” 
Notre Dame and USF will meet in Tampa, Fla., on Fri­day with the first pitch at 7 p.m. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
Achonwa 
continued from page 20 
starters and trying to con­tain their best players, and then you have Natalie come in for 18 and seven,” Ter­rapins coach Brenda Frese said. “Obviously it’s a diffi­cult night at the office when you have other players con­tribute like that.” 
Diggins may have sto­len the show with her first career triple-double, but the signature moment of the game was Achonwa’s block of Maryland sopho­more guard Laurin Mincy with just over 11 minutes remaining in the contest. Peters recovered the loose ball and fed Diggins on the fast break, leading to a quick layup and extend­ing Notre Dame’s lead to 24. A deflated Maryland team never recovered. 
“I think I just really want­ed to block her bad,” Achon­wa said. “I was just waiting for her to put it up.” 
Achonwa entered the game at the 15:07 mark of the first half with the score tied at 8-8. Over the next 10 minutes, Notre Dame would extend its lead to 15 with a 20-5 run during which the sophomore scored six points and grabbed five re­bounds while Peters sat on the bench for extended min­utes. 
“I thought she was the player of the game when you take away Skylar’s tri­ple-double,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “For Natalie to come in, that’s the best game she’s played all year … She really came out ready today. When De­vereaux got in foul trouble I thought that was going to be a real problem for us on the boards, but Natalie came in and easily filled in that spot.” 
Achonwa fell just two points and two minutes shy of her previous career highs, but was named to the Raleigh Regional All-Tournament Team for her contributions off the bench. She became the sixth Irish player to reach double fig­ures in scoring four games into the NCAA tournament. 
Achonwa credits posi­tion coach Carol Owens for preparing the Notre Dame frontcourt mentally and physically for the challenge of matching up against a much taller opponent. 


“Carol Owens was saying all [the media] is talking about is [Maryland’s] posts and how big they are and how are we going to defend,” Achonwa said. “Tonight, me and Dev just wanted to step and show that, ‘Yeah they’re big, yeah they’re strong, but we can be just as physical as them.’” 
Achonwa’s emergence could add a new wrinkle to Notre Dame’s impending Final Four clash with Con­necticut, the team’s fourth matchup against the Hus­kies this season. The Irish face Connecticut in Denver on Sunday at 6:30 p.m. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles routed by Britons, fall to 7-5 for season 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
With the lone exception of Saint Mary’s 5-4 victory over St. Scholastica on March 13, the Belles have either won big or lost big this season. The trend con­tinued Tuesday, as Saint Mary’s lost to conference foe Albion 8-1. 
Of the Belles’ 12 matches so far, five have ended with a 9-0 margin, four have ended with an 8-1 margin, and two have ended with a 7-2 margin. Against Albi­on, (6-2, 2-0 MIAA), Saint Mary’s (7-5, 1-1) could not match up to strong opposition. 
“They are definitely a good team,” Belles coach Dale Camp­bell said. “They are the defend­ing conference champs, but we were maybe a little off our game” 
The Belles lone victory was grabbed in the first doubles match by sophomore Mary Cath­erine Faller and freshman Kayle Sexton. The pair won by a deci­sive margin of 8-3 over Albion freshman Irene Chen and sopho­more Marissa Cloutier. 
The Belles struggled in sin­gles play, as Albion won all six matches in straight sets. 
Top singles player sophomore Mary Catherine Faller and fel­low sophomore Margaret Boden at the sixth spot both played close matches, but were unable to claim victories. Irish fresh­man Audrey Kiefer played well in her singles match, but also lost a close match to Albion ju­nior Marissa Messenger. 
“One singles and five and six singles were pretty good match­es,” Campbell said. “We had de­cent performances in all three of those matches.” 
Senior Sarah Towler for Albion continued her impressive spring campaign. Towler managed de­cisive victories in both the four spot of singles and the two spot of doubles. As a result, Towler re­mains undefeated in both singles and doubles play, with a combined record of 8-0. 
Campbell said he rejects the idea of these losses affecting the mentality of the team. 
“I don’t think it really has a bearing in terms of mentally af­fecting anyone,” Campbell said. “Whether you’re playing singles or doubles, it’s more of a individual thing as you’re out there.” 
Furthermore, Campbell said the outcome might not actually be as one-sided as it appears on the score sheet. 
“I think that even though 8-1 is the overall score, if you have three or four close matches it feels like you’re a lot closer,” Campbell said. “It doesn’t feel at all like a domi­nating loss.” 
The Belles exit the match with some optimism because they played many of their matches close, Campbell said. 
“When the players lose those close ones, they feel like they could have won overall, not just those in­dividual matches,” Campbell said. 
The Belles will look to channel their strong performances into winning results when they return home this weekend. After three straight road matches, the Belles to host Alma at 4 p.m. Friday. 
Contact aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 


ND SOFTBALL 

Irish use final inning rally to defeat Broncos 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Under the lights of Melissa Cook Stadium, the Irish scored all five of their runs in the final inning to earn a 5-3 victory over Western Michigan in their home opener. 
Junior catcher Amy Buntin capped the seventh-inning rally by Notre Dame (12-10) with her walk-off, three-run shot, her fourth home run of the season. 
“Honestly, I wasn’t trying to over­think when I stepped into the box,” Buntin said. “I was thinking, ‘Put the ball in play hard somewhere.’” 
Both teams struggled to score in the first six innings, facing impres­sive performances from both Irish sophomore pitcher Laura Winter and Broncos junior pitcher Meredith Whitney. In the seventh inning, West­ern Michigan (11-10) broke the score­less tie and opened up a 3-0 lead with runs from senior right fielder Court­ney Rousseau, junior second base­man Diana Patterson and freshman pinch hitter Mackenzie Shepeck. 
The Irish earned their first run with a homerun from sophomore outfielder Lauren Stuhr with no outs in the seventh, but after hitting in to two outs, Notre Dame still trailed 3-1. 
Irish freshman infielder Jenna Simon extended the game when she sent a triple into left field and returned the Irish batting lineup to the top of the roster. With senior out­fielder Alexa Maldonado up to bat, Western Michigan gathered at the pitcher’s mound before issuing an in-



tentional walk to Maldonado, forcing junior outfielder Kelsey Thornton to step forward. 
Despite her 0-3 standing for the day, Thornton put the ball in play for the Irish, allowing Simon to score a run and Maldonado to slide into sec­ond and barely escape the attempted tag-out. With two outs on the board, the Irish trailed 3-2. 
As Buntin stepped up to the plate, the Broncos debated the call against Maldonado’s slide. When play re­sumed, Whitney threw the first ball far outside, but the second sailed over the plate and Buntin connected for a home run. 
“I just tried to stay nice and re­laxed,” Buntin said. “I knew she was struggling to throw strikes, so I knew to be ready if she brought the ball over the plate.” 
Buntin’s shot was all the Irish needed for the victory. 
“I knew it was a solid hit but I wasn’t sure if it would quite make it over the fence or not,” Buntin said. “Once I was rounding first I got my answer, though.” 
Notre Dame recorded only four hits during the entirety of the game, two of which were Stuhr and Buntin’s home runs in the seventh. Simon re­corded Notre Dame’s two other hits of the game. 
The Irish have little time to cel­ebrate before a double-header today against Toledo. The Rockets (7-17) hosted their own home opener last Wednesday with a 5-2 win over Wright State, followed by a 5-4 loss in game two of the double-header. In the 2010-11 season, they captured total eight wins, but are are already looking to match that figure this sea­son. 
The Irish continue their home se­ries today against Toledo at 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. in Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Megan finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Dragicevich to transfer, Broghammer will miss year 
Observer Staff Report the spring semester. Dragicevich averaged 6.6 points and 20.9 min-Irish coach Mike Brey confirmed utes per game in the 2011-2012 reports Tuesday of the likely end of season, which included 10 starts. two Notre Dame careers. The Northbrook, Ill., native saw his Brey announced that sophomore playing time dwindle as the season guard Alex Dragicevich will trans-progressed, splitting time with ver­
fer from Notre Dame at the end of satile freshman forward Pat Con­naughton. With senior forward Scott Martin seeking another year of eligibility, the emergence of Connaughton and sophomore guard Jerian Grant and incoming recruit and Missouri Ga­torade Player of the Year Cameron Biedscheid, Dragicevich’s playing time did not appear to have bright prospects to increase next season. “I am sorry to see Alex leave our basketball program, but I fully support his decision to transfer to another school,” Brey said in a statement to the media. “Alex has been a terrific representative of our basketball program and always has conducted himself with a great deal of class. My staff, players and I, in addition to our entire Notre Dame basketball family, wish Alex nothing but the best as he contin­ues his playing career at another institution.” Brey also confirmed junior for­ward Mike Broghammer will miss next season, presumably ending the big man’s injury-plagued Irish career. The Minnesota native strug­gled to overcome multiple surgeries in both knees, aimed at relieving tendinitis, and is seeking a medical hardship — which would allow him to keep his scholarship and gradu­ate while freeing up a scholarship for the team. Broghammer aver­aged 1.7 points per game over 24 games in the 2011-2012 season. 

fel’s] first heptathlon ever and it will inger said. “There’s a little bit of pres-season. The main goal for the outdoor weight throw indoors. The addition of 
Rae 

be a really good experience for her to sure I guess, but it will be really fun to season is to build on our great indoor the short sprints and the 10,000-me­
continued from page 20 
successful indoor season when she competes in the heptathlon in Texas. 
“There are eight or nine girls who are going to be here who I competed against in Idaho [at the indoor cham­pionships],” Buttinger said. “There are 25 girls total and 15 or so who have gone to nationals before, so it’ll be really competitive. This is [Loef-
Doyle 
continued from page 20 
flies by quickly. 
Jack Doyle said he uses his experience to help his broth­er focus the night before a game. 
“Accomplish everything you can while you’re there. It goes fast and we just try and put that perspective on it,” he said. “You think, ‘As a fresh­man I have four years, it’s going to take forever.’ Your older brothers can tell you that you have to enjoy every practice, every game, and en­joy your friends.” 
Doyle, who has a strong in­terest in the field of history, said he relates the game of lacrosse to our nation’s past. 
“I feel like lacrosse is a real spiritual game, being a Native American sport. The Native Americans were really spiri­tual people,” he said. “The best players really kind of preach cherishing the game and respecting it. Before I go out and play a game or prac­be at this relay. This will be a really good meet in general for the both of us.” 
There is additional pressure for Buttinger and Loeffel to perform well this weekend, as it is the only op­portunity other than Big East cham­pionships in which they’ll be able to qualify for outdoor nationals. 
“It’s a little bit nerve-wracking be­cause it’s one of only two times we’ll have to qualify for ationals,” Butt­
tice, it’s kind of in the back of my mind, to respect the game and play lacrosse.” 
Seven games into his ca­reer, Doyle is already show­ing signs of developing into the next Irish star. He has recorded three goals and three assists and has helped Notre Dame achieve a 6-1 record, despite a challeng­ing schedule. 
He is working to surprise his team, however, by fill­ing the shoes of the previous number 28 — a tall order for any player. 
Brenneman agreed with the message that Doyle’s brothers continue to preach. 
“I’d say don’t take any­thing for granted. Life at Notre Dame is short, espe­cially playing lacrosse,” he said. “Give every day to try and get better. Make your practice about your evolution as a player. Wearing a num­ber means nothing except who you are inside. 28 or 98 
— doesn’t matter 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
be outside.” 
While junior middle-distance run­ner Jeremy Rae is one of a handful of athletes not competing until the Stan­ford Invitational on Easter weekend, he said the meets this week present a nice chance for teammates to make a mark. 
“The [meets] are good opportuni­ties to get some Big East qualifying marks,” he said. “For most of the team, this is their second meet of the 
Novosel 
continued from page 20 
wanted to,” McGraw said. “We scored inside and out. We just really did a fantastic job on offense. Skylar managed the game and to have a triple-double in a regional final, that’s an amazing accom­plishment.” 
The Irish outrebounded the Terrapins 46-27, despite Maryland’s height advantage. 
“I was really proud of our defense,” McGraw said. “I think we read a lot about Maryland defense and size factor. I felt that we did a fantastic job in the half court man-to-man defense. We did a great job on the boards.” 
Diggins earned the title of the Regional All-Tournament Team’s Most Outstanding Player. Achonwa, McBride and Novosel all joined her on the Raleigh Regional All-Tournament Team. 
“I thought this was go­ing to be a close game back and forth,” McGraw said. “I season and win the outdoor Big East title.” 
The transition from the indoor sea­son to the outdoor season brings a change in events, Rae said. 
“It’s a little more difficult to win the outdoor title,” he said. “There are no 500-meter, 1000-meter, or 3000-me­ter races, but there’s the addition of the 100-meter, 4 x 100-meter, and 10,000-meter races. There’s also the javelin throw outdoors instead of the ter race make the outdoor meet a little more difficult.” 
The Irish are competing in the Clyde Littlefield Texas Relays begin­ning today in Austin, Texas. The East Illinois Multi-Events Invitational be­gins tomorrow in Charleston, Ill., and the Purdue-Polhlein Invitational in West Lafayette, Ind., begins Friday. 
Contact laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 


Junior guard Skylar Diggins drives to the basket in Notre Dame’s 80-49 win over Maryland. Diggins had a triple-double in the game. 
thought at the end our lead­ership and experience would give us the edge. I thought we might get ten points ahead. I did not envision this. I’m amazed at how my team came out.” 
Notre Dame will head back to South Bend before the Final Four teams convene in Denver. The Irish are set to face Big East rival No. 3 Connecticut , whom the Irish beat twice in the regular season but fell to in the conference tournament final. 
“I think this [Maryland] game is great momentum for us going into [the Connecticut game],” Diggins said. “Our goal is getting back to the champi­onship, which is what we have wanted to do all year. it’s going to be a battle and it always is. There is nothing you could tell us about UConn that we don’t already know. This team is prepared. We’ve played them a lot of times, and we just have to execute.” 
The Irish will tip off with Connecticut at 6:30 p.m. Sun­day in Denver. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUgENIA LAST 


HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE SCOTT MICHAEL and MATT MOMONT 
MIKE ARgIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, March 28, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Rocky Mountain high 
Irish rout Terrapins, advance to Final Four Achonwa steps up 
By MOLLY SAMMON programs in the country, and I 
and fills the void 

Sports Writer couldn’t be prouder of that.” Diggins led the Irish with her 
By CHRIS MASOUD 

RALEIGH, N.C. — For the sec-first career triple-double, the 
Senior Sports Writer ond time in the tournament’s first triple-double by a Notre history, each of the four No. Dame player since 1990. She 
RALEIGH, N.C. — Junior 1-seeded teams will compete in had 22 points, 10 rebounds and 
guard Skylar Diggins and se­the Final Four. Notre Dame will 11 assists in 38 minutes of time 
nior guard Natalie Novosel be featured among the other on the court. Diggins also add-
were in true form, pacing top teams — Stanford, Baylor ed five steals for the Irish. 
Notre Dame to its second and Connecticut — after a 80-“I think we felt the pres-
consecutive Final Four ap­49 win over Maryland in the Ra-sure,” Diggins said. “I think 
pearance with a combined leigh, N.C., regional final Tues-that we embrace the pressure, 
36 points, 16 rebounds and day at PNC Arena. and I think that expectations 
11 assists Tuesday night. But “I could not be prouder of that others put on us doesn’t 
on a night when graduate this team to handle the expec-exceed the ones that we put 
student forward Devereaux tations all year long of being a on ourselves anyway. We were 
Peters finished 3-for-9 from No. 1 seed with a target on our very confident coming into this 
the floor in just 20 minutes back and to make it to the Final game, very loose.” 
of action, sophomore forward Four.” Irish coach Muffet Mc-Sophomore forward Natalie 
Natalie Achonwa filled the Graw said. Achonwa came off the bench 
gap, giving the Irish a much-This will be Notre Dame’s to put up 18 points for the Irish 
needed boost off the bench. fourth trip to the Final Four in and shot 70 percent from the 
The sophomore forward program history and the first field. Starting sophomore for-
poured in a smooth 18 points time the Irish have ever quali-ward Kayla McBride scored 
and seven rebounds in 26 min­fied in back-to-back seasons. 16 points for the Irish, includ­
utes, often battling the Maryland “This puts us in more elite ing two 3-pointers, and senior 
frontcourt as Notre Dame’s only company” McGraw said. “This guard Natalie Novosel had 14 
six-footer on the floor. is something that [junior guard] points. 
“We had a hard enough job ob-Skylar [Diggins] has brought to “We scored every way we viously with [Notre Dame’s] five our program. I think we now have a place with all the elite see NOVOSEL/page 18 see ACHONWA/page 16 

MEN’S LACROSSE 

Doyle shows glimpses of stardom as a freshman 
By MEGAN GOLDEN “I’ve never worn number games as a freshman, while Doyle comes from a lacrosse They have both played more Sports Writer 28 before. It was the lowest Brenneman — now playing family, having two older broth-than me,” he said. “I want to number available, so I just professionally in MLL for the ers, Kevin and Jack, who played make my two brothers proud 
Less than a year after the picked it,” Doyle said. “Then Long Island Lizards — did not midfield for the Naval Academy because I’m the middle child. I graduation of former Irish star-people are like, ‘Hey, what start, but played in all 17 Irish and Harvard lacrosse teams, also want to set a good example midfielder Zach Brenneman, do you think you’re like Zach contests his freshman season. respectively. He also has a sis-for my younger sister and my freshman attack Conor Doyle Brenneman or something?’ It “Zach was an amazing play-ter in high school and a brother younger brother.” has taken on the lofty chal-didn’t even come to me that it er, and Conor definitely has in fifth grade back home in Bal-Doyle said he exchanges texts lenge of filling his big shoes. was his number.” the potential to be as good — if timore. and phone calls with his broth-
Doyle, who wears Despite their differ-not better — than Zach,” Irish Doyle said his family moti-ers before his games. He said Brenneman’s old number 28, ence in position, Doyle and senior attack Sean Rogers vates him to be the best he can they emphasize he must savor said he is constantly remind-Brenneman have been com-said. “He has that potential, be on the field. his lacrosse career because it ed of who previously wore the pared to one another by their but potential is one thing. He “[My older brothers have] jersey for No. 6 Notre Dame (6-teammates. Doyle has started has to go out and do it every both been through a lot, and I 1,1-0 Big East). six of Notre Dame’s first seven day.” definitely look up to them a lot. see DOYLE/page 18 
ND TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish spread around country to compete 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
After beginning the outdoor sea­son by placing 10 athletes on the po­dium at the Victor Lopez Invitational on March 24, the Notre Dame track and field squads are taking their tal­ents to various locations this week. 
A select few multi-event competi­tors are headed to Texas to compete in the Clyde Littlefield Texas Relays in Austin, Tex., today and tomorrow, while other athletes will travel to the Eastern Illinois Multi-Events Invita­tional, to be held tomorrow and Fri­day in Charleston, Ill. The majority of the team will be traveling in-state this weekend, heading to Purdue’s Polhlein Invitational in West Lafay­ette, Ind., for a weekend meet. 

Senior multi-eventer Maddie Buttinger, freshman multi-eventer Carly Loeffel and junior multi­eventer Ted Glasnow are the only Irish athletes who are competing in the Clyde Littlefield Texas Re­lays. The meet will be Loeffel’s first-career collegiate outdoor meet and Buttinger’s first outdoor meet after a stellar indoor season. 
On March 10, Buttinger broke the school record in the pentathlon and took third at the NCAA Indoor Championships. Buttinger said she hopes to use momentum from her 
see RAE/page 18 
BASEBALL 

Five-game winning streak ends 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 

In the sole meeting between Notre Dame and the University of Illinois-Chicago this season, the Flames outlasted the Irish by a score of 8-5, snapping Notre Dame’s five-game win­ning streak. 
UIC (10-12, 4-2 Horizon) got off to a hot start, jumping out to a 3-0 lead in the first inning. The Irish infield committed two errors and Irish junior pitcher Patrick Veerkamp allowed two hits in the inning. 
“We went down in the blink of an eye,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “We didn’t do a great job of handling the early part of 
see AOKI/page 16 





