The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 21 | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Career Center connects students to internships, jobs 
Events will host potential employers, advise Arts and Letters undergraduates looking to next step 
By ANNA BOARINI 
news writer 
arts and letters majors worrying about getting a job after graduation can can calm their nerves at the arts and letters career opportunities week, a series of events co-spon­sored by the career center and the college of arts and letters. 
rose Kopec, the associate direc­tor of the career center, said this is the fourth year of the event, former­ly titled “what’s next week.” 
“The name was changed this year … to the arts and letters career opportunities week to hopefully more accurately reflect the week’s activities,” she said. “arts and letters students have many career paths available to them and we wanted to dedicate an entire week to exploring some of these options.” 
This year, the tagline for the event is, “start now to plan your future,” Kopec said. 
monday night’s panel was titled “Thinking about graduate and professional school?” The panel discussed how to make graduate school applications great, as well as what to expect from graduate school, Kopec said.  There will be a workshop on how to find and fund a student internship Tuesday night in the geddes auditorium. 
“[students can] learn about exploring careers through notre 
see weeK PAGE 5 




Local food co-op helps relieve ‘food desert’ 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 

in the spring of 2011, now-senior erin wright helped launch a south bend food co-op for a community-based research course, and the quality of both the produce and neighborhood interaction has kept her going back ever since. 
The monroe park Food co-op in downtown south bend welcomes students and residents of any in­come level to purchase nutritious, low-cost fruits, vegetables and oth­er staple food items. 
“i really like the personal interac­tion with the people that work there and its members,” wright said. 
“and it’s really affordable, high-quality fruits and vegetables that i probably wouldn’t buy otherwise.” 
professor margaret pfeil, a the­ology professor and staff member at the center for social concerns, said the idea for the co-op was de­veloped during the spring of 2011 after the catholic worker commu­nity asked residents of monroe park where they purchased groceries. 
“There really is no accessible grocery store nearby that offers healthy food at affordable prices,” pfeil said. “lots of people said they either borrowed a car or got a ride from a friend to wal-mart.” 
monroe park qualifies as a food desert, pfeil said, which is a neighborhood that is located more than one mile away from a full-ser­vice source of food. 

“There are smaller markets, but they don’t offer a great variety and are relatively expensive,” pfeil said. “it would be a place you would go in a snowstorm to get milk or emer­gency provisions.” 
after asking the residents what food options they would like to see nearby, pfeil said most of the com­munity wanted easier access to fresh vegetables and produce. 
pfeil, along with wright and other students in the community-based theology course pfeil was 
see parK PAGE 5 


sister interprets the ‘good’ 
By ANNA BOARINI 
news writer 
sister Joan chittister, a benedictine sister and author of 45 books, discussed the common good during the annual Fr. bernie clarke lecture on catholic social Tradition on monday night in the hesburgh library auditorium. 
“Tonight i want to spend a little time sorting out … the whole con­cept of ‘the common good,’” she said. 
chittister said celebrating the 50th anniversary of the encyclical “pacem en Terris” brings people to the very heart of what it means not only to be a christian or a catholic, but also to be a citizen of the united states. 
“in every single presidential elec­tion cycle, we enter as a people into the centrifuge of one of the oldest debates and at the same time one of the most pressing contemporary questions in the life of this country,” she said. “That question is what ex­actly is what exactly we as a people are we about? is such a think as the common good even possible in a world such as ours?” 

chittister said in “pacem in Terris,” pope John Xiii does not talk about peace in terms of war or weapons of mass destruction, but in terms of the common good. 
“in 176 paragraphs of that en­cyclical, he talks 48 times about the common good,” she said. “without the common good, there will never be peace and certainly no justice.” 
chittister said the issue of the common good even divided alexis de Tocqueville and James madison on the question of what de 
see sisTer PAGE 5 

club explores american culture 
By SARAH MCCARTHY 
news writer 

senior colin o’neill, the presi­dent of the american studies club, wants students to know why he thinks american studies is the best major at notre dame. 
american studies, o’neill said, is more than just an interdisciplin­ary study of what it means to be american. 
“it is understanding american thought and american behavior through our everyday experiences and things like [television], movies and books,” o’neill said. 
o’neill chose american stud­ies as a major because he was not interested in studying one specific subject, and the interdisciplinary approach of the classes appealed to him, he said. as president of the american studies club, which is 
see club PAGE 5 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite children’s book? 

Chelsea Pratt 
Freshman 
mcglinn 

“brown bear, brown bear, what do you see?” 
Julia Lee 
sophomore 
lewis 

“hungry hungry caterpillar.” 
Matt Hubbard 
senior 
off campus 
“holes.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Michael Szopiak 
Junior 
Fisher 
“i love you Forever.” 
Miles Klimara 
Junior 
duncan 
“harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban.” 
T.J.Dean 
sophomore 
Fisher 
“hungry hungry caterpillar.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

meghan Thomassen conor Kelly Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: nicole michels megan Finneran rebecca o’neil matthew deFranks 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
laura laws ankur chawla 
Photo Viewpoint 

Free Flu Shots Crisis of the Euro Zen Meditation ND vs. Michigan Vigil Mass 
Kirby mcKenna caroline schurz 
Stepan Center Hesburgh Center for 102 Coleman-Morse Football Pep Rally Basilica of the Sacred 1 p.m. - 8 p.m. International Studies Center Hesburgh Library Heart or Stepan Free for students. 4:30 p.m. - 6 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. Center 
Corrections 

Panel discussion. All faiths welcome. Open to the public. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Film: The Passion of Arts and Letters Concert: Sons of Women’s Soccer Concert on the Steps 
strives for the highest standards 
Joan of Arc Networking Fair Daughters Alumni Stadium Bond Hall 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Performing Monogram Room, Courtyard of Snite 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 6 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center Joyce Center Museum of Art ND vs. Pittsburgh ND band performance 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8 p.m. - 9:22 p.m. 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. 90 minutes before 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Tickets $7/$5/$4 Dress in formal attire. Snacks will be served. kickoff. 
we can correct our error. 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2012  | The observer 
Foundation funds College scientists 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
The henry luce Foundation and the clare boothe luce program awarded saint mary’s $240,000 to provide scholar­ships to students studying in the physical science fields. 
starting in the fall of 2013, two students in chemistry, phys­ics, math or engineering who exemplify high-performance skills in their disciplines will be granted the scholarship. it will cover their full tuition, room and board for their final two years at the college. 
“These scholarships are granted to women the com­mittee believes will become academic leaders in their par­ticular fields,” said christopher dunlap, associate professor and chair of the department of chemistry and the project director of the clare boothe luce program. “about four or five years ago, we had this scholarship program at saint mary’s. The program then had four recipients.” 
henry luce, the co-founder and editor-in-chief of Time inc., founded the not-for-prof­it to honor his parents who were missionary educators in china. The scholarship pro­gram was named after his wife, clare boothe luce, the 
u.s. ambassador to italy and the first woman elected to congress from connecticut. 
dunlap said students must be u.s. citizens and have a grade point average of at least 
3.5 to be considered for the scholarship. Those intending to pursue a career as a health care professional, however, will not be eligible, he said. 
“The students must be high-achieving individuals planning on going to graduate school,” dunlap said. “after completion of graduate school, the student will hopefully take on roles of academic leader­ship, for example, teaching at colleges and universities.” 

over the next few weeks, dunlap, as well as his col­leagues on the scholarship’s committee, will have more in­formation about the applica­tion and scholarship ready for current sophomores to learn more about the program, she said. 
“along with the application, students must receive a letter of recommendation from the faculty,” dunlap said. “after the application process is complete, the committee will select who the recipients of the clare booth luce scholarship at saint mary’s.” 
applications will be avail­able in late January or early February and the selection process will be completed by mid-march. 
The math and chemistry de­partments will begin to target the current sophomores eli­gible for this scholarship over the course of the next semes­ter, dunlap said. 
she said the women who re­ceive these scholarships will be involved in activities to en­courage other young girls to pursue their education in sci­ence or mathematics. 
“This is a great opportu­nity for those women at saint mary’s looking to advance in academic leadership in the sci­ence and math fields,” dunlap said. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

new program targets future domers 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
every student has a unique story of their first experience at notre dame, whether they are legacy students who watched “rudy” hundreds of times as a child, or just visited the campus their se­nior year of high school and unex­pectedly fell in love. The office of undergraduate admissions’ high school ambassador (hsa) pro­gram, led by assistant director of admissions Jordan schank, works to share the notre dame experi­ence with as many students as possible. 
“each year, admissions counselors travel to hundreds of high schools across the united states and internationally to meet with prospective students,” schank said. “however, time and resourc­es limit the number of schools that the counselors are able to visit. The high school ambassador program extends the reach of the office of undergraduate admissions by sending trained current notre dame students to their home­towns to share their experiences with prospective students.” 

schank said the high school am­bassadors are volunteers who may be from any class and any college. 
“high school ambassadors must attend a training session offered by the admissions office,” schank said. “The high school ambassa­dors are also responsible for con­tacting their own high schools to 
paid adverTisemenT 


schedule the meetings with pro­spective students.” 
hsas are given an outline of topics that can be covered during their meetings with prospective students, schank said. 

“many hsas will prepare a for­mal presentation that covers stu­dent life, residential life, the First year of studies and other topics that help introduce notre dame to high school students. we have also encouraged hsas to show our new video, ‘any given day’ during their visits,” schank said. “[however,] the most valuable meetings and presentations will include story­telling and personal anecdotes.” 
shank said hsas are free to share their personal experience with the application process, but they are overall discouraged from giving application advice or sug­gesting whether a particular stu­dent would be competitive or not. 
“rather, hsas are to encour­age prospective students to con­tinue the conversation with their regional admissions counselor in our office,” schank said. “we value the work and enthusiasm of our high school ambassadors. The stories and experiences shared by high school ambassadors carry a certain authenticity that is well-received by prospective students.” 
in the future, schank said he hopes to expand the program and send ambassadors to represent the university internationally. 
“currently, students are pre­paring to visit their high schools over fall break. we hope to offer the program over other breaks this year,” he said. “we hope that students will enjoy the experience and volunteer again to visit addi­tional schools in their hometowns. Finally, we hope to recruit and train a large number of interna­tional high school ambassadors to supplement our current recruiting efforts overseas.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
belles 
celebrate freedom 
By  SARAH SWIDERSKI 
news writer 
in honor of the 225th anniver­sary of the u.s. constitution’s ratification yesterday, the center for academic innovation at saint mary’s college host­ed “constitution day 2012: reflections on the letter and the spirit of the u.s. constitution.” 
associate professor of com­munication studies michael Kramer coordinated the day, including a panel in the haggar college center that featured veteran reporter and communi­cation studies professor susan baxter, history professor edith miguda and political science professor sean savage. 
baxter reflected on the im­portance of the constitution in terms of her experiences as a reporter. baxter said it was the right of the public to be present at city council meetings un­less certain requirements and processes are followed to close the session. baxter said at one meeting she refused to leave, and the mayor told her the next time she refused she would be arrested. 
“i told [the mayor] to prepare the sheriff because i’m not leav­ing,” baxter said. “i thought ‘wow, i’m going to jail for the constitution.’” 
baxter said the right to be present at public meetings is important to the freedom of speech. 
“many times these public meetings are not important, but when they are, people need to know,” said baxter. 
miguda also emphasized the importance of protecting the constitution. 
“The spirit of the constitution is the spirit that lets us defend it,” miguda stated. “The u.s. constitution is exemplary in how we [americans] defend it.” 
savage spoke about how americans have different ways of interpreting the document. 
“no matter how americans differ [the constitution] is sup­posed to be the one thing that we have in common,” savagedsaid. “it unites the u.s. in a basic document but it sus­tains an ongoing debate.” 
savage said the constitution is strong and that unlike the united states, other countries will often go through and re­view the wording of their re­spective constitutions. 
“we, [the united states], don’t do that,” savage said. “we only added about 17 amendments since [the bill of rights]. … maybe [the constitution] unites us because we are always dis­agreeing about what it means.” 
Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2012 | The observer 




Week 
conTinued From page 1 
dame’s job shadow, externship and arts and letters business boot camp programs,” she said. “[They can] gain the tools to find the perfect internship [and] educate [themselves] about the various funding programs on campus.” 
wednesday night will be the employer networking Fair in the monogram club at the Joyce center with notre dame alum­na nancy ruscheinski, chief innovation officer and global vice chair for edelman as the keynote speaker. This event will have rep­resentatives from many compa­nies including abercrombie and Fitch, red Frog, morningstar and capital one, Kopec said. 
Throughout all the events, stu­dents need to keep in mind when the industry they want to enter into hires, she said. 
“our keynote speaker for wednesday night, nancy ruscheinski … will address this,” she said. “edelman, a public re­lations firm, won’t begin the full-time hiring process until the spring semester.” 

This type of hiring is called “just-in-time hiring” and is very common, Kopec said. 
“This does not mean that stu­dents should wait until then to begin making connections with alumni and learning more about the industry,” she said.  “That should happen immediately fol­lowing the time when a specific direction is discerned.” 
no matter what industry stu­dents want to go into, the career center can help, especially in the current economic climate, Kopec said. 
“our job is to provide the best services possible to students cou­pled with an aggressive employer recruiting strategy,” she said. “There have been other tough economic times since i have been at the career center and these goals have not changed. we con­tinually strive to offer both rel­evant and creative programming and services to help make notre dame students successful upon graduation.” 
Kopec said arts and letters students do not need to wor­ry about not finding a job post-graduation. 

“it is not more difficult for arts and letters students to get a job post-graduation,” she said. “For example if you look at our ‘future plans’ data in 2011, only two per­cent of arts and letters students are still seeking full-time employ­ment within six months [of grad­uation] which is in line with all of the other colleges.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
Park 
conTinued From page 1 
teaching at the time, began to explore options among local farmers. most of the farmers agreed they would support the co-op, pfeil said. 
“They were in need of market venues in the city,” she said. 
since then, the monroe park co-op has expanded from one day of sales to three days, Thursday through saturday. 
pfeil said the organization currently has 200 members, who include students, average-income sponsor members and low-income members who vol­unteer time rather than money to the co-op. 
“members are self-selected,” pfeil said. “if people self-identify as low-income, they can choose a neighbor membership or resi­dent of michiana membership, and they volunteer at the co-op three hours per month.” 
The collaboration between the community of south bend and notre dame students has been vital to the launch and growth of the co-op, pfeil said. 

“i can’t say enough about the enthusiasm, energy and thoughtfulness from the stu­dents who have become in­volved in the co-op,” she said. “students with interests in economic and theological is­sues involved with food secu­rity have all been able to find an interesting connection at the co-op.” 
wright, who held a student membership for one year and has volunteered as a worker-member since, said the co-op provides her with a great op­portunity to work with, rather than for, south bend commu­nity members. 
“it’s not notre dame stu­dents doing something for the community, but it’s work­ing together with community members to create something that serves everyone,” she said. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“it’s very much a collaborative effort, nothing we could have just done on our own.” 
other students at notre dame have become involved with dif­ferent sections of the co-op’s food chain. Freshman Tony Zhong is currently enrolled in a community-based writing and rhetoric course in which he volunteers at the farms that supply the co-op. 
Zhong said he has already enjoyed the experience im­mensely and plans to become more immersed in the world of the monroe park co-op, partic­ularly with trying to publicize the co-op. 
“i want to have more people shop there and to encourage more notre dame students to volunteer there,” Zhong said. “The farms produce inexpen­sive, high-quality, organic food. and it’s cheaper than martin’s.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
Sister 
conTinued From page 1 
Tocqueville and James madison on the question of what the common good is and how to obtain it. 
“[The common good] riveted the Founding Fathers 200 years ago and it clearly confuses this ses­sion of congress,” she said. “it has plagued political philosophers and economists across centuries and it continues to do so to this very day.” 
The common good is the holy grail of politics, chittister said. 
“The common good is a vision of public virtue, which engages the individual citizen, energizes the government, shapes the public sys­tem and points the public direction and all it’s policies, all it’s institu­tions and all it’s legislative intents,” chittister said. “The common good is the answer to the question, what, that we all want for this country … what is it that we really want for this country and how do we go about getting it.” 
chittister said now the discourse in the u.s. is more inclined to talk 
Club 
conTinued From page 1 
year at notre dame, o’neill hopes that fellow students, both majors and non-majors, will also be drawn to the interdisciplinary aspect and want to join the club. 
“it’s an opportunity to take what­ever it is you’re studying — econom­ics, political science — and bring your expertise to a much broader conversation,” o’neill said. “The club is all-inclusive and allows peo­ple from all majors to contribute to the conversation.” 
on sept. 13, the club hosted an event titled “mediating media: The contemporary Face of american Journalism?” in which members gathered together to watch clips of “The colbert report” and “The daily show.” american studies professor Josh roiland, who also teaches classes in the Journalism, ethics and democracy minor, fa­cilitated a discussion related to the shows and their effect on politics and journalism. 
o’neill said the club hopes to hold similar events in the future where students can speak to professors in an informal setting about contem­porary issues in american culture. 
“we would like to let professors come in and talk about what their interests are,” o’neill said. “we want them to share their thoughts on what they’re reading, watching and listen­ing to, and then talk about how and why those things are american.” 

about the general good instead of the common good. 
“we talk about the public good, meaning natural gifts that ben­efit us all equally, like air, water and good order if of course we have the good fortune to find air that is pure, water that is clean and land that is toxin free, resources that are suffi­cient to afford anywhere,” she said. 
There is no doubt the common good is an endangered species, chittister said. 
chittister said the world is chang­ing through globalization with more diversity present in religion, nations and neighborhoods. what once divided people — language, geography — no longer do so, she said. 
“‘pacem in Terris’ gets clearer ev­eryday,” she said. “The fact that one is a citizen of a particular state does not detract from anyway from his of her membership in the human family as a whole or from their citi­zenship in the world community.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
o’neill also said that the club of­ficers are trying to organize a “mad men” marathon as a potential event. he said that he hopes fun events like these will keep people interested and allow them to learn more about the connection between contemporary american culture and american history. 
This Friday, the club is sponsoring a lecture on the relationship between football and universities, entitled “The rise of gridiron university: higher education’s uneasy alliance with big-Time Football,” at 3 p.m. in the hesburgh center auditorium. preceding the lecture will be a foot­ball tailgate with food and flag foot­ball, o’neill said. 
“This event is a way for us to build awareness around something that is so relevant to us: football,” o’neill said. 
ultimately, o’neill said that he hopes students will recognize that the american studies club, besides being interesting, informative and engaging, can also be a fun and worthwhile use of their time. 
“when people hear ‘american studies club,’ they hear the word study … but the emphasis of this club is to take our education and put it into something that is a part of our everyday lives, such as playing football on the quad,” o’neill said. “There is something truly american about our everyday activities.” 
Contact Sarah McCarthy at smccart6@nd.edu 
The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2012  | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

calhoun’s legacy 

Joe Wirth 
sports writer 

amidst praise and adulation from seemingly every media outlet, university of connecticut basketball coach Jim calhoun retired last week. beginning his coaching career at northeastern, he accepted the uconn job in 1986, and has been one of the most prolific coaches of the past 20 years. he turned the huskies from doormats of the big east into one of the perennial powerhouses. 
calhoun has three national cham­pionships, and has coached numerous first-round nba draft picks. his accom­plishments should be lauded, but they do not tell the whole story. 
absent from calhoun’s retirement coverage was the fact that his program has been marred by off-the-court issues. 
For example, when a.J. price and marcus williams were each charged with felonies for stealing laptops around campus in 2004 and 2005. These were serious incidents, but they were allowed to rejoin the team after a suspension. 
There have also been issues in the classroom, as the program’s graduation rate has been under 30 percent for most of the past decade. The list goes on, but, as long as calhoun won, people turned a blind eye to his indiscretions. 
coaches like calhoun, rick pitino, bob huggins and Jim boeheim are treated as gods of the coaching profession, but they run dirty programs. instead of lambast­ing these coaches for breaking rules, one often hears announcers praise them for overcoming suspensions and sanctions. 
while huggins was head coach at the university of cincinnati, his team maintained a 0 percent graduation rate, while during his current tenure at west virgnia, he has yet to crack the 50 per­cent barrier. 
boeheim has repeatedly been under ncaa investigation, and has had play­ers struggle in the classroom with a 54 percent graduation rate. he also had bernie Fine, who is under investigation for child molestation charges, as a long­time assistant. 
pitino has had a sub-50 percent gradu­ation rate during his time at louisville, and his players have also had trouble with the law. one such incident took place in 2009 when Terrence Jennings and Jerry smith were arrested, and, in the process, assaulted a police officer. 
pitino’s reaction? “anytime you defy a police officer, it’s serious,” pitino told espn.com. but neither player missed any games for the arrests. 
as these coaches enter into the twi­light of their careers and get closer to retirement, there will be praise for their achievements. regardless of their long list of on-court accomplishments, their 
Contact Joe Wirth at jworth@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The GreenMan 
ask the greenman 
beloved readers, 
There comes a time in every greenman’s life when he must put down the pen and act. he must take up the mantle of a cause about which he is passionate and make it his own. 
as many of you may know, i have been writing green articles for The observer for a few years now, but i feel that i must increase my commitment. 
in light of this realization, i, the greenmman, will now be making public appearances! 
wait! before you run off to jump in stonehenge out of sheer joy or warn your energy-wasting friends of my imminent arrival, please allow me to introduce myself. 
i was born like all greenmen into a happy and nurturing greenfam­ily and felt myself quite ordinary. it wasn’t until third grade that i realized i was different. i was chosen to be “the tree” in the school play. i loved my role, and everyone told me that i played the best tree they had ever seen. in high school, i was a star run­ning back, until the athletic associa­tion ruled that my natural ability to camouflage into the grass gave me an unfair advantage. 

without football, i found that my life had no direction. i was a green without a purpose. my fel­low greenmen were busy starring in Tv shows like “it’s always sunny in philadelphia,” professionally heck­ling the residents of the vancouver canucks’ penalty box and selling green vegetables. my life was empty, that is until i met the dalai lama. 
he gave me some profound advice: “look inside yourself, there you will find your path.” Taking his advice, i looked down, but try as i might, i couldn’t see inside myself. all i saw was green, and then it hit me! i could be a symbol of hope for environmen­talists everywhere! 
henceforth, i have been promot­ing the green movement with my shakespearean writing skills, excel­lent dance moves and intimidating presence. 
i was first drawn to notre dame by legends of another greenman living there. while the leprechaun wasn’t exactly what i expected, i love this place. From boogying at hip-hop night to jigging at football games, notre dame gives me so many op­portunities to show off my dancing prowess. 
my hobbies include: not talk­ing, pinning everything green on pinterest, long, engaging environ­mental conversations with Father hesburgh (who understands my people’s unspoken language), danc­ing to anything from the waltz to the latest skrillex single, casually unplug­ging unused electronics,  tablegating for nd Football (no self-respecting greenman owns a truck), greening (similar to your concept of tanning) in the beautiful south bend weather and playing poker (i’m told i have a good poker face). 
i think that covers all of the bases. Keep an eye out for me at green events as we approach the Kill-a-watt dorm energy competition . . . i’ll be the green one. 
until then, stay green my friends. 
The greenman
 Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“everyone knows if you are too careful you 

What is the most important issue 
are so occupied in being careful that you in this presidential election? are sure to stumble over something.” 
Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll 
Gertrude Stein 

US author in France by 5 p.m. Thursday. 


Sisters for life 
Bridget Galassini 
bitter bridget 

This week, Facebook newsfeeds, instagram posts and Twitter feeds were filled with greek letters, revealing dresses and “sisterz for lyfeee” cap­tions. if there were a way to block all of this from my social networking sites, i would, but, alas, there is not. Though this explosion is similar to the influx of pictures from summer music festivals like country Thunder or lollapalooza (though i too am guilty of “mupload­ing” from these events and others), these greek rushing pictures are even worse. 
one instagram picture or a few Facebook posts is understandable. Take a picture of your acceptance let­ter to the sorority, or of all of your be­loved sisters standing together behind three oversized greek letters. but the internet does not need to see a picture of each piece of paper that shows your first, second, third, fourth and 17th callback, or one picture per girl in your “new family.” 
Further, the names of sororities and fraternities mean absolutely nothing to me. This is most likely because we don’t have them at nd, so there’s no point in my knowing their stereotypes or anything else about them. but sure, i’d be fine with seeing which sorority accepted you. so go ahead and make a status or profile picture of that and lo and behold, you have shared your amazing achievement of getting into a sorority. don’t make me decipher greek letter puzzles, though. That looks more confusing to me than a chemical equation. well, not quite that bad, but almost. For example, besides those taking greek, does anyone have any idea what greek letters mean? no. unless you look it up. but what is the purpose of sharing something with the Facebook or Twitter world if the ma­jority of people can’t even understand it? do you really think everyone can recognize greek letters well enough to know their meaning? or maybe you just think it looks cool. and i’ll give you that, it does. but then, just make it look cool on your dorm wall or something. 
as with most things social network-ing-related, girls commit more of these crimes than guys. we like to show off our cute outfits. and when is there a time that girls look cuter than while rushing, while trying desperately to impress other girls by their superficial looks and personalities? yeah, never. and since sororities are symbols of social status and seem to be inherently cool, a girl can become more popular by flaunting her affiliation. so this explains the bombarding of pictures. girls are showing off for their “sisters,” family, friends and guys. 

one of my friends once said some­thing that i think about often: “we all have that one person that we are smil­ing for in our Facebook pictures.” it resonated because it’s so true, at least for me. we all have that one person that we secretly hope stalks our pic­tures and sees how happy, pretty and awesome we are. 
consequently, since the girls in their sorority pictures are glowing like preg­nant women, of course every single picture must be shared on every single social networking site, in the hope that the people for whom the girls are smil­ing will see those photos. 
i’m glad that i did not have to worry about rush week. nor did i have to fake my way into friendships that i will later pay for, a common ridicule of greek life. 
here at nd, my friends come for free. well, maybe their cost is included somewhere in the $50,000, but at least i’m not outright paying for them. and i don’t have to sport five different types of eveningwear in order to be accepted by them. in fact, if i did, i’d have no friends because i don’t even have five outfits that would be acceptable attire. 
For all of the houses’ talk about being a family, they resemble much less of a family than our dorms do here. sororities and fraternities judge each other harshly before being ac­cepted, and once someone is in, he or she must maintain a certain image. whereas with our dorms, we’re placed in them and that’s it. “you can’t choose your family, but you can choose your friends.” by selectively choosing mem­bers, houses aren’t putting together families, but we are here at nd, for better or for worse, which is what fam­ily is. domers for lyfeee. 
Bridget Galassini is a freshman. She can be reached at bgalassi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Entering into South Bend 
Leila Green 
off the wall 

There exists a far-away land inhabited by true humans not too far away from the glory that is notre dame. in this mostly uncharted region lie unheard-of spectacles: unkept lawns, crime, even such horrors as gas stations and planned parenthoods. in this mystical land, the median household income is approximately $32,000 and north Face jackets are much rarer. This land that i speak of is south bend, and it exists on the outer realm of reality of most notre dame students. if you leave the glorious dome you are required to enter the real world and perhaps might even have to use public transportation. beware . . .
 . . . 

when i first visited notre dame, i inevitably had to pass through south bend. you know? That city we live in? i will admit; i was not impressed. south bend is not the greatest place in the world. not even in indiana. not even in northwestern indiana. This fact gave me initial apathy toward the city. however, this past summer i realized that i’ve been a terrible south bendian, but a great domer, and came to the con­clusion that this discrepancy is morally wrong. 
i find it shameful that most of us students dismiss south bend as a waste­land riddled with “townies” when we, for all purposes, are south bend resi­dents. True, notre dame has its own zip code and power plant, but we are nevertheless embedded in the south bend community. once you get past the glare of the golden dome, you can actu­ally make out some of the city with the naked eye. 
i asked several notre dame stu­dents the first word that came to mind was when i said “south bend.” Their answers? 
“drab,” one said. 
“miserable,” another said. 
“Kafkaesque,” said another, clearly refined student. 
The contradictory juxtaposition of a wealthy university in a struggling, small city is destined to cause friction, which is heightened by skewed perceptions of each other. while south bend residents may shun perceivably haughty notre dame students, we have unequivocally prescribed them the title of “townie,” which has derogatory connotations. 
despite its imperfections, we as stu­dents should strive to be members of the south bend community. we go to africa, south america and india to do service and simultaneously shun the very city we live in most of the year. we should be as passionate about service in south bend as we are about service around the world. 

i am proposing a challenge to all students on this campus: leave your comfort zone, enter more fully into the south bend community and use your gifts to improve the city. 
leaving your comfort zone does not mean eating at Taco bell. it means do­ing things you wouldn’t normally do. There is true value in leaving the shell you have built around yourself and deviating from your own conventions, practices and routines. This value is learning more about yourself and the world around you. it is easy to stay closed off to the unknown, get wrapped up in our own lives and remain com­placent with our privilege. This general complacency is tamed by ignorance and fear. 
what is the opposite of complacency? displacement. henri nouwen, a dutch catholic priest, explains this theologi­cal concept as a “move or shift from the ordinary or proper place.” displacement allows us to experience our true con­dition and, as nouwen said, “leads to compassionate living because it moves us from positions of distinction to po­sitions of sameness.” displacement reminds us that we’re all members of the same human family. we should all strive to be displaced. 
many great students have already en­tered into the south bend community. 
They should disregard this article. This article is for those who are afraid and don’t think leaving the notre dame bubble is necessary. 
my challenge to you is to take action. you cannot complain about dirty dishes if there’s a sponge in your hand. it’s easy to complain about south bend. it is honorable to do something about it. identify something that could be im­proved and take action! you are capable and have the resources. 
This city is filled with amazing people who are worth getting to know — people that you have more in common with than you may presume. i met a homeless man at the local soup kitchen. after talking for a while, we discovered that we spent a large part of our lives living in the same rural mississippi town. after this discovery, i pondered the oddness of coincidences and came to the conclusion that our similari­ties weren’t implausible miracles, but inevitable commonalities. voluntary displacement and recognition of the universal human condition are essen­tial in overcoming classism and unify­ing as one. we are all people, after all. 
Leila Green can be reached at lgreen2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LAURA LAWS | The Observer LAURA LAWS | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Momentum keys playoff races 

Peter Steiner 
sports writer 
when it comes to the post­season, momentum is per­haps the biggest advantage a team can have. 
if you’ve got momentum, there is a good chance you can ride it all the way to the championship. without it, you’re left in the dust of the first round, even after a sea­son’s worth of effort. 
and in no other sport is this truer than in baseball. 
although the playoff games are played in october, september decides the post­season fate that is “written in the stars.” you only need turn the clock back to 2011 to prove it. 
without a doubt, the cardinals had momen­tum last season. on aug. 24 the cardinals were 10.5 games back in the wild card race, only to storm back in september by winning 23 of 32 games. The cardinals took the wild card in dra­matic fashion and won the world series, disposing of philadelphia’s pitching staff, milwaukee’s timely hitting and new powerhouse Texas along the way. 
rewind to 2007 and you’ll find the rockies, who won 21 of 22 games to advance to the world series in one of the most improbable postseason runs in baseball history. 
but you don’t even have to stick with baseball to un­derscore the importance of momentum. The new york giants and green bay packers utilized momentum in each of the last two years to take home america’s biggest prize 
— the super bowl. 
connecticut’s basketball team won 11 straight games between the big east and ncaa tournaments to come out on top in 2011. 
in fact, momentum ap­plies to just about every sport except the nba, where the postseason takes longer than your sister in the shower. but of course, that’s a whole other discussion. 
you could say momentum is like a wrecking ball. it swings back and forth, taking down anything in its path. if a team is lucky enough to jump on the wrecking ball during its upswing, they can ride it through the down­swing, topple what another team has built its entire sea­son and come out on top of the heap. 
and that’s the craziest as­pect of momentum. baseball is a marathon 162-game season. yet, the team who wins the most games closer to the playoffs enjoys one of the best chances to win it all. it doesn’t matter if your team rewrote the record book in may. if you don’t finish strong, you’re probably out of luck. 
so who will be this year’s st. louis or colorado? 
The second wild-card spot adds more intrigue and possibilities to this debate than ever before. without it, the national league play­off picture would be locked up tighter than Fort Knox. but with it, the cardinals and dodgers are stumbling towards a potential playoff spot, while the brewers and phillies could seize the sec­ond spot, having won 20 of 26 and 12 of 17 games, respec­tively. if either milwaukee or philadelphia sneaks into the playoffs, they could wreak some considerable havoc. 
meanwhile, almost every­thing in the american league is up for grabs. Three games is the biggest lead in any divi­sion, while five teams have a legitimate shot at the wild card spots. The athletics have grabbed hold of some momentum, going 8-2 in their last ten games. 
with all this chaos, now is the time for one team to sad­dle up on top of the playoff race, take hold of the momen­tum reins and ride all the way to a championship. 
you just better hope it’s your horse, dark or not, that finishes first. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL 

vilma meets with goodell after suspension lifted 
Associated Press 

new yorK  — new orleans saints linebacker Jonathan vilma spent monday after­noon having a “very frank, very truthful” meeting with nFl commissioner roger goodell about his suspension that was temporarily lifted. vilma was one of four players suspended by goodell in the bounty scandal. but an ap­peals panel earlier this month said goodell must clarify his rulings to ensure no part of his decisions was based on salary cap violations. That would be the jurisdiction of special 
master  stephen  burbank.  
vilma,  suspended  for  the  
entire  season,  request­ 
ed  a  separate  meeting.  

“Today everyone was afforded an opportunity to start over,” vilma said outside the nFl’s park avenue offices more than three hours after he went in. “it was in our best in­terest to meet today. we spoke truthfully, honestly, bluntly.” vilma and attorney peter ginsberg did not want to share details of the meeting. “we appreciate Jonathan vilma taking the time to meet today and look for­ward to seeing the other players tomorrow,” nFl spokesman greg aiello said. goodell must show that the basis for the discipline was in­appropriate conduct — such as intent to injure — rather than any secret monetary compensation. in that case, he has full authority to im­pose the suspensions.“ i’m going to make sure the commissioner realizes our 

FOR SALE 

2 Michigan tickets in prime location. VIP parking pass available. Call 609-471-9511 
WANTED 

Need (x3) three people to help at our Notre Dame Tailgate vs. Michigan , 9/22 
*Grilling Burgers, Tent setup, Misc., etc. (Must be 21 years old) 
*Pay: $15 per hour, 8A-6P this 
Saturday, September  22nd  
*If  interested:  Please  call  Mark  
847-770-7867  


position is consistent with the truth,” ginsberg said, re­iterating that Jonathan never intended to hurt any players. players and coaches impli­cated in the bounty pool have testified under oath in a related federal court case they never intended to injure opposing players. new orleans defensive end will smith (four games), browns linebacker scott Fujita (three) and free agent defensive end anthony hargrove (eight) are expected to have their meeting Tuesday. “we had a very frank, very truthful, very frank hearing,” vilma said. “we definitely had some communication today and that’s, i guess, in everyone’s best interest.” smith played in each of the saints’ first two games and vilma is on the physically unable to perform list. Fujita made his season debut in cleveland’s loss to cincinnati on sunday. hargrove was cut by green bay during the preseason. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to as­sist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or as­sistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s web­site at: http://pregnancysupport@ nd.edu 
“Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.” — Anna Karenina – Leo Tolstoy 
“The human race, to which so many of my readers belong, has been play­ing at children’s games from the be­ginning, and will probably do it till the end, which is a nuisance for the few people who grow up.” — The Napoleon of Notting Hill – G. K. Chesterton “It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolish­ness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the sea­son of Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair.” 
— A Tale of Two Cities  – Charles Dickens 
“Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the river­bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in it, ‘and what is the use of a book’, thought Alice, ‘without pictures or conversation?’” — Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland – Lewis Carroll 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2012 | The observer 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Matchups 
conTinued From page 12 
Welsh Family 12, Lewis 0 

Kalamazoo comes to town 

By NICK BOYLE 
sports writer 
coming off a disappointing tournament performance, saint mary’s hopes to bounce back when conference rival Kalamazoo visits south bend tonight.  
Though they were swept at carthage this weekend, the belles (6-5, 2-1 miaa) are cur­rently riding a two-game con­ference winning streak, and hope they can keep up their momentum against the visit­ing hornets (3-10, 0-4 miaa). 

“we had a very tough week­end, but we prepared well and we are looking forward to getting to play a tough con­frence team,” belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “we want all of our hard work to pay off [tonight].” 
Kalamazoo has struggled to start off the season, setlosing 10 of its first 13 matches. They 
paid adverTisemenT 


Kangaroos 
conTinued From page 13 
a total team effort, as the offense and defense combined to lead the team to victory. 
“we stuck to the run, and started opening up our passing,” Keough sophomore captain charlie magiera said. “we had a good de­fense, and really shut them down.” 
Keough junior quarterback seamus donegan connected with junior receiver mike Fischer throughout the game, which en­abled the Kangaroos to drive down the field. Though Fischer had an ankle injury early in the game, he returned to help lead his team to the season-opening win. 
Keough’s defense also inter­cepted two passes and recovered one fumble. in the second quarter, Keough’s defense returned the first interception back for a touchdown. 
“in terms of interceptions, i think that was good coaching and monday night against mcglinn, while welsh Family will try to keep its undefeated record intact when it faces ryan next sunday. 

Pangborn 20, Farley 0 
pangborn received strong efforts on both sides of the ball on its way to crushing Farley in a 20-0 victory sunday afternoon. 
Farley (0-1) started with the ball but soon ran into trouble on the of­fensive end, as the Finest began the game with three incomplete passes. 
as pangborn (1-0) took posses­sion of the ball, the duo of sopho­more quarterback caitlin gargan and senior receiver meredith angell led the phoxes’ offense and soon proved to be unstoppable. 
on pangborn’s first possession, gargan made a long run to the end zone, putting the phoxes on the board. in the next series, Farley re­ceived two penalties and struggled to get into a rhythm. 
“we need to get more coordinat­ed and more in sync,” Farleyinest ju­nior quarterback lauren ladowski said. “we are still figuring who goes where.” 
on the last play of the first half, gargan ripped off an almost 70­yard run and scored pangborn’s second touchdown. The phoxes suffered two false starts on their at­tempt at an extra point and failed to make the conversion. 
at the end of the third quarter the phoxes found the end zone once more, as angell snagged a touch­down pass. 
“i felt pretty exhilarated,” angell said.  “i was so excited to score for my team.” 
Farley senior captain courtney currier said the Finest were look­ing forward to getting in more prac­tice time and making necessary improvements. 
“we just need to tighten up our offense with crisp routes and confi­dence,” currier said. 
Farley looked to get its first win of the season against ryan monday night, while pangborn will try to remain undefeated when it meets mcglinn next sunday. 
Contact Sarah Connors at sconnor1@nd.edu 
are also still looking for their first conference win. 
Though Kalamazoo has struggled to start the season, Kuschel does not write the visitors off as an easy victory. 
“Kalamazoo is a very tough confrence team. They have a balanced attack and a fast offense,” Kuschel said. “our blockers will need to play tough and disciplined at the net and we will need go out and play our best volleyball that we are capable of.” 
despite Kalamazoo’s re­cent struggles, Kuschel knows her team must play together if it wants\ to be victorious against the visit­ing hornets. 
“it takes all six players out on the court playing to the best of there ability for us to be able to win,” Kuschel said. “we are very young team with a lot of talent.” 
Kuschel believes her whole team must take on a leader­ship role if they want to be successful tonight. 
“There is not one player that i look to [for leadership] in order to win. i look to the whole team,” Kuschel said. 
saint marys will take on Kalamazoo tonight at 7 p.m. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
By SARAH CONNORS 
sports writer 
in a battle of talented senior quarterbacks, welsh Family came out on top, defeating lewis 12-0 in the season opener for both teams. 
on the first possession of the game, welsh Family senior quarter­back victoria moreno found sopho­more receiver natalie branch for the team’s first touchdown.  at the end of the first half, branch added to her offensive output, as she caught the second touchdown for the whirlwinds (1-0). 
despite her success on the offen­sive end, branch was quick to give credit to her team’s defense. 
“although i am on offense, the defense did a really good job today,” branch said. “They shut them out. it was really impressive.” 
lewis (0-1) struggled to keep its quarterback protected from welsh Family, which sacked senior quar­terback connaught blood multiple times in the first half. despite the general offensive struggles, blood still completed many passes to her receivers. 
blood took the blame for the offense’s difficulties, saying she hadn’t fully prepared the unit for the game. 
“i blame myself for the offense not really having it together,” blood said. 
on defense, lewis (0-1) held welsh Family to two touchdowns in the first half. 
“we have great defensive unity,” lewis sophomore safety amarpreet rai said. 
as both teams are fairly young, players on both sides said they were excited to see how underclassmen would contribute to the team. 
“we are loaded with freshmen,” blood said. “it’s exciting to see how they will do.” branch also com­mented on the youth of the welsh Family team. 
“we are pretty young,” branch said. “we graduated a lot of people last year.” 
lewis looked to earn its first win good athleticism,” magiera said. 

stanford (0-1) utilized the pass-catching combination of junior quarterback conor healy and se­nior receiver Jim waclawik, which opened up the griffin offense. in the fourth quarter, healy connect­ed with waclawik down the right side, and waclawik ran the ball into the end zone for a touchdown. 
Though the stanford offense moved the ball, it was plagued by turnovers, something stanford senior linebacker paul babiak said his team would try to improve on moving forward. 
“we need to contain better on defense and give up a few less turn­overs on offense,” babiak said. 
after a bye week, Keough looks to keep rolling against dillon on sept. 30. stanford looks to find the win column when it faces the big red on sunday. 
 Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

cavanaugh narrowly beats walsh with one play 
McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, Howard, Welsh Family and Pangborn shut down opponents 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
in a defensive struggle between two tough teams, cavanaugh snuck by walsh to earn a 7-0 victory. 
although both sides displayed first-game jitters early, both the chaos (1-0) and the wild women (0-1) showed flashes of midseason form. 
“defense has always been our core, and we definitely picked up where we left off last year,” cavanaugh senior quarterback rosemary Kelly said. 
cavanaugh junior linebacker meghan ayers and senior corner­back michelle young gave walsh’s offense fits and prevented the wild women from moving the ball through the air. young had several pass breakups and an interception that ended walsh’s deepest drive. 
on the other side, the walsh de­fense prevented prolonged drives, as the wild women received constant pressure from a stout defensive line and strong play from sophomore cornerback molly Johnson. 
cavanaugh could not break through until ayers’ punt return gave it the ball deep in walsh terri­tory in the second half. Kelly con­nected on several passes to move the chaos to the red zone, and the 
“Defense has 
always been our 
core, and we 
definitely picked 
up where we left 
off last year.” 
Rosemary Kelly 
senior quarterback 
Cavanaugh 
senior quarterback powered it in herself for the game’s first points. 
“i really thought our offense picked it up in the second half,” Kelly said. “[sophomore running back] olivia dietzel was great running the ball, and our [offensive line] was great too.” 
The touchdown was all the chaos needed, as walsh could not respond. despite the loss, the wild women were far from discouraged. 
“we have a very young team with a lot of sophomores contributing,” Johnson said. “it’s a great team, and we are working really hard.” 
walsh will try to rebound next sunday against breen-phillips, while cavanaugh will attempt to build on its win when it faces lyons tonight. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
McGlinn 8, Pasquerilla East 0 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
sports writer 
backed by its stout defense, mcglinn defeated pasquerilla east 8-0 on sunday in each squad’s sea­son opener. 
mcglinn’s defense started out the game strong, as the unit made sev­eral early stops for the shamrocks (1-0). The shamrocks took the early lead with a touchdown pass from senior quarterback emily golden to senior receiver Katie ritter. sophomore receiver emma collis contributed heavily to the shamrock offense with multiple catches throughout the game. a late safety by the shamrocks secured the final points of the game, bring­ing the score to 8-0. 
“defense won us the game,” golden said. “This was a good confi­dence booster. we were a little off on the offense, but, once we get click­ing, we will be deadly.” 
“The team looked good and sharp,” senior coach derek wolf added. “There was great energy.” 
in a sloppy third quarter, the pyros (0-1) took the ball with an in­terception by freshman amy rizzo. The shamrocks, however, inter­cepted the ball right back on an ex­cellent catch by sophomore laura Thomas. 
The pyros showed promise in the fourth quarter with back-to-back sacks by sophomore liz Zolper and junior caroline Kuse. pyros sopho­more receiver nicole ameli provid­ed a late spark for the offense when she made an outstanding grab far downfield. 
“The team was on fire,” ameli said. “we’re ready for next week and we’re all excited.” 
sophomore quarterback macy mullhall said she was confident and focused on the team’s main goals. 
“we like short-term goals, but we definitely have one long-term goal: the stadium,” mulhall said. 
mcglinn hopes to remain unde­feated when it plays pangborn next sunday, while pasquerilla east will look to pull off its first win against lewis the same day. 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla West 14, Badin 0 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
in a tough defensive battle, pasquerilla west made more stops, as it shut down badin’s dynamic re­ceivers en route to a 14-0 victory. 
The purple weasels (1-0) faced a challenge in the bullfrogs’ receiving corps, but senior captain meghan schmitt said her team was ready with a game plan. 
“we knew they had a couple of good receivers, so we wanted to be able to adjust and not just have one set defense,” schmitt said. 
The defensive strategy worked, as the purple weasel defense shut out the bullfrogs (0-1). schmitt said she was excited about her players’ ex­ecution of the team’s strategy. 
“i think our defense was unstop­pable,” schmitt said. “They got two or three first downs, but they were really on our penalties. we were too aggressive.” 
aggressiveness was key to the purples weasels’ success on offense. 

sophomore quarterback lauren vidal showed off her powerful arm and fearlessness, as she did not hesi­tate to make a long pass or throw into coverage. 
although badin went into the game prepared with set plays, senior quarterback Tommasina domel said the purple weasels’ 
“We need more 
strategy. Our 
girls are all good 
athletes, and we 
just need to adjust 
better.” 
Margaret Bellon 
senior defensive lineman 
Pasquerilla West 

defense caught on fast. despite the loss, domel found positives in her team’s performance. 
“we had a very specific strategy, and their defense was well set-up for us … but our defense was really strong,” domel said. 
senior defensive lineman margaret bellon said she was proud of the defense’s effort but noted some areas where it could improve. 
“our defense was really good to­day,” bellon said. “we need more strategy. our girls are all good ath­letes, and we just need to adjust better.” 
pasquerilla west will return to the field tonight to play breen-phillips, while badin will look for its first win when it takes on lyons next sunday. 
Howard 20, Lyons 0 
combining a strong passing attack with talented receivers, howard rode its offense to a 20-0 victory over lyons on sunday night. 
Junior quarterback clare robinson threw three touchdown passes for the ducks (1-0), with two of those passes coming as she ran from an aggressive lyons pass-rush. robinson said she was comfortable improvising her offensive plays. 
“we hadn’t heard much about lyons coming in, so we focused on what we could build,” robinson said. “it worked out pretty well, and we got some different receivers in there.” 
howard’s receivers displayed the ability to create plays as well. on one play, junior receiver amelia vojt received an unexpected pitch that left her with an open field. 
lyons (0-1) received contribu­tions from several receivers but failed to capitalize on its offensive opportunities, as it was shut out. 
on the other end, the lyons de­fense stayed aggressive to the final whistle. in the fourth quarter, soph­omore sabine mosal intercepted a pass in the end zone, but howard got the ball back after a referee flagged another lyons defensive lineman for illegal contact. 
paid adverTisemenT 

senior captain christina bramanti said the call was confusing. 
“at first, he said it was pass inter­ference, but then he called illegal contact because [the ball] wasn’t going to her,” bramanti said. “it was across the field.” 
To make matters worse, mosal injured her ankle trying to stay in bounds on the play. despite the loss, bramanti said her team could ad­just and bounce back. 
“because it’s our first game, and it’s a very young team, we had girls 
“We need to 
reposition girls 
where they fit 
better.” 
Christina Bramanti 
senior captain 
Lyons 

change positions from where they started the game,” bramanti said. “we need to reposition girls where they fit better.” 
both teams will meet cavanaugh in their next matchups. lyons will face cavanaugh tonight, while howard will take on the chaos next sunday. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
see maTchups PAGE 11 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2012 | The observer 

Fink 
conTinued From page 16 
Keenan looks to keep rolling against o’neill on sunday while dillon attempts to get back on track against stanford on sunday. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
Sorin 19, Zahm 0 
By ALEX STEMBAUGH 
sports writer 
in the season opener, sorin showed its strength both offensive­ly and defensively in a 19-0 shutout of Zahm on sunday at riehle Fields at stepan. 
sorin (1-0) set the tone early, as its first possession ended in a 5-yard touchdown run by senior quarterback Ted spinelli to put the otters on the board. 
spinelli and freshman running 
“It feels good to 
get a win out here 
today.” 
Jake Yurek 
freshman receiver 
Sorin 
back John pearl led a powerful ground attack for the otters that consistently broke tackles and piled up yardage en route to the season-opening win. 
otters freshman receiver Jake yurek said it was good to come out in week one and get a victory. 
“it felt good to get a win out here today,” otters freshman receiver Jake yurek said. “it’s only our sec­ond time hitting, so it was really good to get game experience.” 
The Zahmbies (0-1) had a few big plays down the stretch, with soph­omore receiver sam Zappa mak­ing a series of catches, including a diving grab off a sorin defender. Zahm couldn’t convert in the red zone, however, and fumbled from inside the 5-yard line to give sorin the ball. 
“our defense played really well, and it’s only going to get better from here,” sorin freshman linebacker galvin loughran said. “every oth­er team we play should know they have to be ready for a fight.” 
despite the loss, there were some positives for the Zahmbies to take away from the game. They blocked two extra point attempts and drove the ball down into the red zone just before halftime.
 “we played hard,” Zahm senior quarterback alex bowman said. “we’re really looking forward to having a good time next week.” 
Zahm looks for a win against carroll on sunday, while sorin has the weekend off before taking on carroll on sept. 30. 
Contact Alex Stembaugh at astembau@nd.edu 
Knott 6, Siegfried 3 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
in a low-scoring matchup be­tween mod Quad rivals, Knott de­feated siegfried 6-3 to capture an opening-week victory sunday at riehle Fields. 
on his team’s second drive, ramblers senior captain david whitmore ran the ball seven times for a total of 37 yards to give his team 
paid adverTisemenT 

excellent field position in the Knott red zone, but costly errors hurt the ramblers (0-1), who amassed four penalties in that drive alone. 
“we made a lot of stupid mis­takes that cost us a lot of yards,” whitmore said. “playing a pretty good team like Knott, you can’t win if you make those errors.” 
siegfried, however, was able to salvage a few points with senior 
“Our offensive line 
was great today, 
which let us pass 
and run a lot 
and eventually 
score the winning 
touchdown.” 
David Taiclet 
sophomore quarterback 
Knott 

kicker stephen wandor’s 27-yard field goal, giving them an early 3-0 lead they held going into halftime. 
The teams exchanged scoreless possessions throughout much of the second half, as Knott (1-0) still trailed 3-0. 
with the clock winding down in the fourth quarter, a short siegfried punt from deep within its own ter­ritory gave Knott stellar field posi­tion with four minutes left to play. 
an eleven-yard rush brought Knott offense to first-and-goal at the siegfried 7-yard line, and the team finally found the end zone when senior running back Joey beglane scampered in to give the Juggerknotts a 6-3 lead they would not relinquish. sophomore quarterback david Taiclet said the offensive line was key in lead­ing the offense to the winning score.“our offensive line was great today, which let us pass and run a lot and eventually score the win­ning touchdown,” Knott sopho­more quarterback david Taiclet said. 
The ramblers made a come­back bid with a series of four passes from sophomore quar­terback nate burggraf to fresh­man receiver spencer Judd, but another false start penalty and an incomplete pass on fourth down thwarted their drive, allowing the Juggerknotts to finish the game in the victory formation. 
“we came out here and beat siegfried, who is probably the best team in our division, so our con­fidence is great heading into our next game,” Knott senior dylan walter said. 
after a bye week, Knott tries to remain undefeated against alumni on sept. 30, while siegfried looks to rebound in sunday’s matchup against alumni. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
Alumni 3, Duncan 0 
By KYLE FOLEY 
sports writer 
sunday’s season opener between alumni and duncan was a defen­sive grudge match that held true to the final snap of the game. in the end, the dawgs (1-0), led by junior quarterback will cronin,who took home a hard-fought 3-0 victory. 
cronin, whose sophomore year was cut short last year2011 cam­paign was cut short due to injury, propelled the dawgs with his scrambling ability and leadership from the huddle. 
“cronin provided us with stabil­ity,” alumni junior captain Tom o’sullivan said. “he made all of the adjustments we needed to make and kept our heads in the game. There is no doubt we are happy to have him back on the field.” 
both offenses were led by their rushing attacks, with neither team attempting a pass until late in the second quarter. 
The deciding play in the contest came right before halftime. after a failed fourth down conversion by the highlanders (0-1), the dawgs took over possession on their own 30-yard line. with 40 seconds left before the half, cronin completed a 35-yard pass to junior receiver Kevin rolfs. Following a 15-yard scramble by cronin, alumni soph­omore kicker ryan buckley nailed a 30-yard field goal to put the dawgs up 3-0 going into the half. 
The defenses battled back-and­forth in the second half asnd the game remained scoreless. a stout alumni defensive unit led by o’sullivan silenced the duncan run game that had a chance to score in the final drive of the game. 
The highlanders, however, came up three points short as the alumni defense held onstrong for the shutout. 
despite the loss, duncan ju­nior captain gerrit hobson said he was pleased with his team’s te­nacity on defense and thinks the highlanders have to work on the small things. 

“we looked good,” hobson said. “we have a couple small bugs to iron out though. This starts with better discipline during practice. in this league it is the little things that win you football games, and we have to work on that.” 
duncan will try to get its first win against morrissey on sunday while alumni looks to make it two in a row against siegfried when they square off sunday. 
Contact Kyle Foley at kfoley2@nd.edu 
Carroll 21, St. Edward’s 0 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
carroll defeated st. edward’s 21-0 in an lopsided battle sunday to win the season-opener. 
led by the duo of junior quar­terback Tommy spoonmore and junior receiver bobby dorman, carroll’s offense dominated the field. with less than a minute left in the second quarter, spoonmore found dorman deep in the end zone for the pair’s second touch­down connection of the game. 
dorman ran the ball in for the third and final touchdown for the vermin (1-0). he covered the field as receiver and running back, proving a versatile threat against the gentlemen (0-1). 
“when he wanted to get the first down, he knew what to do, and i would let him take over,” spoonmore said. 
in addition to the three touch­downs, carroll played staunch de­fense en route to the shutout. 
“we decided to keep throwing it and defensively we made sure we could just stop the runner,” spoonmore said. 
Though st. edward’s failed to score, the gentlemen’s defense was 
“We decided to 
keep throwing it 
and defensively 
we made sure we 
could just stop the 
runner.” 
Tommy Spoonmore 
junior quarterback 
Carroll 

aggressive and hard-hitting, soph­omore linebacker brendan Flynn said. 
“we played well on defense for the most part,” Flynn said. “we hit them hard.” 
The gentlemen’s defense pres­sured the carroll offense, forcing the vermin to fumble early in the third quarter and again late in the fourth quarter. 
will look to improve their offense heading into their next game.“we need to work on offense and get­ting more fluid,” Flynn said. 
st. edward’s hopes to improve its offense against Fisher on sunday while carroll win again against-faces Zahm on the same day. 
Keough 21, Stanford 6 
Keough defeated stanford 21-6 on sunday to secure its first win of the season. 
The Kangaroos (1-0) put together 
see Kangaroos PAGE 11 



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Playoffs 
conTinued From page 16 
his team charging out of the gates at the beginning of the conference schedule, especial­ly in their win over louisville, their toughest conference challenger. 
“we talked about the impor­tance of this start, especially with louisville on Friday, which was a big game and a big win for us because they’ll be there bat­tling for one of the top spots at the end,” waldrum said. 

now, the irish will look to build on that momentum, and hope to carry it straight through the regular season and into a conference cham­pionship. notre dame’s next big east contest will be this Friday, when the team will host pittsburgh under the lights at alumni stadium. That match will kick off at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF | o’brien naTional inviTaTional 
no. 15 belles take eighth 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 

after playing with the toughest division iii competition in the na­tion, the no. 15 belles ended the o’brien national invitational at the warren golf course in eighth place with a tournament score of 670. 
The belles carded a team score of 338 on the final day of the tourna­ment, placing them 11 stokes out of the top five. despite the second-day struggles, the squad finished nine strokes ahead of no. 14 whitman and 10 ahead of no. 8 gustavus adolphus. 
“we were hoping to improve to­day, but we did not,” belles coach mark hamilton said. “The course was playing pretty difficult. we left a lot of shots on the golf course, but overall, not too bad of a weekend.” 
Freshman amanda graham led the belles in the tournament with her consistent play, shooting an 83 and 82 on days one and two, re­spectively. Freshman claire boyle joined graham on the final day with an 82, while junior Justine bresnahan finished with a score of 85. 
“amanda graham played very consistent golf this weekend,” hamilton said. “she led our scor­ing and she is making some great strides and improving. i’m very proud of the way she played.” 
Fifteen-time defending na­tional champion and top-ranked methodist won the tourna­ment, closely followed by no. 5 washington university of saint louis. The ten teams that compet­ed this weekend all currently rank in the top 15 in the country. 
“it was a great experience to play against the top teams,” hamilton said. “again, because we have such a young squad, it was great for them to see what the top players look like and know that they are not very far behind them. we have got a great future ahead of us.” 
because the tournament was held at the warren golf course, it might seem as though the belles would have an advantage play­ing at home. but according to hamilton, the inexperience of his team negates this potential edge. 
“all of the ten teams, except for one, have played this event for the last four years,” hamilton said. “They’ve actually played [the warren golf course] more than a lot of our younger players have. 

“it’s really not too much of an advantage, honestly. For our older players, it’s a little bit of advantage to know some of the subtlety of the [warren golf course]. because we are a younger squad, it’s probably not as big of an advantage as it will be in a couple of years.” 
with the final nonconference tournament in the books, the belles will prepare for the start of their league matches. despite its young team, saint mary’s has a clear goal in mind. 
“now we start our conference schedule,” hamilton said. “we have got a match this Thursday and saturday. we have six conference rounds between now and oct. 13. now we are looking to win the con­ference championship.” 
The belles hit the links next Thursday when they take on olivet. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
Runners 
conTinued From page 16 
Timothy ball, michael clevenger and Kevin durham all qualified for the 40-man field and finished 16th, 25th and 37th, respectively. 
“we all met at the meet,” clevenger said. “Kevin, Tim and i all actually hung out at the meet, and we all got to know each other pretty well there.” 
at the time of the race, ball was the only one of the three who had committed to the irish, and he admitted he tried to con­vince his new friends to join him once he realized they were inter­ested in the program. 
clevenger said that he and durham made their decision after they visited south bend on the same weekend in January. 
“it was just awesome to know that the guys who were already here were all really great guys, and i think that’s kind of what at­tracted all of us here,” clevenger said. “we knew Tim was com­ing here already and Kevin and i kind of both decided to come, too, because notre dame is an awesome place, and i think we both loved our visits. it just kind of worked out that we all loved it here and decided to come here.” 
now that these four freshmen have arrived on campus, they have to get used to an entirely new dynamic: they were some of the top high school runners in the country, but now they’re not even the top runners on their own team. They agreed, how­ever, it is fun to have teammates who can push them in practice. 
“There are so many other guys out there who work as hard as you or even much harder,” ball said. “it’s crazy because i’m on the bottom of the food chain in college, and there are so many guys who are better than me and it makes you want to work harder to be like them.” 

irish men’s coach Joe piane has the utmost confidence that these runners will catch up to their older teammates. 
“i kind of ease into training with the freshmen, but so far they’ve handled it exceptionally well,” piane said. “They’re all good kids, and they’re all going to help us, if not this year then down the road for sure.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
Basics 
conTinued From page 16 

way from that seven-year old student. Trailing only former irish golfer max scodro in ca­reer stroke average, platt has a shot to leave his mark in pro­gram history. 
“i guess [it is a goal], but it is something, if i start thinking about it, it’s not going to help me,” platt said. “i am going to try to not worry about that. i have a long way to go, i’ve got two years. if i play well, maybe i’ll pass him. if i don’t, then i won’t. but i just have to try to stick to each round, each shot. That’s what i need to focus on.” 
while he chases scodro’s re­cord, platt also hopes to follow the example set by the two-time big east player of the year on the course. 
“he definitely set a high bar for the rest of us,” platt said. “last year he played well — he was an all-american. The way he’s played so far profession­ally has definitely made me want to work harder and follow in his footsteps. hopefully i’ll play as well as he did at school and then hopefully move it on to play professionally.” 


paid adverTisemenT 
For now, however, records, accolades and future careers are subordinate to another of platt’s roles on the notre dame squad. 
“Just try to be a leader, just try to help whenever [my teammates] need help,” he said. “Just work your hardest to get ready for the next tour­nament and try to set a good example for them.” 
platt and the rest of the irish will resume play on sept. 29 at the macdonald cup at yale university. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2012 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |          lenny rago &        paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tom hardy, 35; Jimmie Johnson, 37; constan­tine maroulis, 37; Kyle chandler, 47. 
Happy Birthday: don’t procrastinate when you should be moving forward. recog­nize your attributes and how best to utilize what you have to offer. avoid negative people who lower your confidence and expectations. let your creative imagination lead the way and a host of new ideas will develop and proposals will come your way. control your life instead of letting others boss you around. your numbers are 7, 13, 20, 27, 35, 43, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t let emotional confusion cause you to lose sight of your goals. change is good, and implementing old with new will give you exactly what you need to accomplish your goals with a unique touch. an old lover or friend is likely to surface. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): consider your choices and you will realize the best route to take personally and professionally. diversify what you have to offer to suit the changing times and you will excel. don’t get stuck in the past when it’s the future that counts. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Focus on self-improvement, but don’t go overboard. cost-effective alterations will make you feel good and keep your stress level down. deal with any uncertainty you have with a peer or your vocation. love and romance are on the rise.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): promises made to family members will be difficult to keep and lead to disappointment. changes at home may not be your idea, but it is wise to accept the inevitable. what appears to be negative will turn out to be to your benefit. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): organize or attend a community event. The changes you make will be met with approval. speak openly about your feelings and plans for the future. a new acquaintance will develop into a long-lasting friendship or partner­ship. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): moneymaking ventures will be profitable. invest in your abilities and you will succeed. small business ventures will help make your money work for you. Keep your financial and personal situation a secret until you have reached your ideal goal. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): open-mindedness will help when faced with adversity. seeing all sides of a situation will favor finding a solution that suits everyone. don’t make an abrupt change, but do make a motion to integrate the alterations that will benefit everyone. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): expect delays. watch your step and avoid mishaps. ease into whatever you plan to do and avoid overspending. a problem with rules and regulations should be anticipated. Focus on taking care of your personal well-being. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): changing your work habits will bring good results. you can get far more accomplished if you are happy in your personal life. a money­making idea will pan out well for you. romance is highlighted. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take one step at a time. listen and observe what others do. do not let an emotional situation confuse you. analyze what’s going on and estimate the best move possible. make sure that ulterior motives aren’t involved on your part or someone else’s. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put more time and effort into your surroundings. redecorate or make a residential move or alteration that better suits your current lifestyle, needs or professional endeavors. love is in the stars. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): a creative approach to the way you handle your fi­nances or a partnership will help you get your way. don’t go overboard or embellish what it is you are trying to accomplish. excess is the enemy and moderation is your friend. 


Birthday Baby: you are powerful bright, creative and diverse. you are a trendsetter. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish chase Big East title 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
in the past two seasons, notre dame has won a national championship, won 31 games, and been considered one of the elite teams in college soccer. 
but there’s one thing the irish haven’t done in those two campaigns: win a big east championship. 
From 1995 to 2009, notre dame (5-3-1, 2-0-0 big east) claimed 11 of 15 conference titles, cementing their status as bullies of the big east. but the team came away empty-hand­ed after losing 2-1 to louisville in the semifinals last year, and lost a shocker to connecticut in the 2010 quarterfinals before eventually winning the ncaa championship. 
and while the conference tournament — win or lose — has been a stepping stone to national success for the squad, irish coach randy waldrum is putting more emphasis on re­asserting his team’s big east presence — especially with notre dame set to leave the conference forever in the near future. 
“it’s been a couple of years since we’ve … won [the big east],” waldrum said. “so we want to get back and kind of reestablish that dominance in the conference, especially before we leave in a couple of years, or whenever that’s going to be.” 
The team took a decisive step in that direction this past weekend, navigating past a 

MEN’S INTERHALL 

Keenan’s defense rises over dillon 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
leading up to the game, Keenan talked the talk. on sunday, the Knightsy (1-0) walked the walk. The Knights (1-0) played with all the confidence and swagger senior quarterback andrew mcdonough talked about, and ran away with a convincing 23-7 win over defend­ing champion dillon. 
For all the talk about Keenan’s offensive firepower, it was the Knights’ defense that stood out the most against the big red (0-1). 
“The defense played a great game,” mcdonough said. “we challenged them all week in prac­tice. it starts with the defensive line. [senior] Tyler gregory, [se­nior] alex green, [sophomore] sean hynes, [senior] nate carr played just great games. They were able to get pressure on [dillon ju­nior quarterback] Kevin [Fink] the whole game; he was never able to get comfortable.” 
Keenan’s defense recorded two interceptions and , a sack, in and holdingeld Fink to 94 passing yards on the day. in the first half, the Knights held dillon to just three rushing yards. 

not only did the defense stop dillon dead in its tracks, but it also put points on the board, recording a safety to give Keenan a 2-0 lead. 
offensively, mcdonough was the star of the game, going 10-for­14 with 133 yards, two touchdowns and an interception through the air, while also amassing 61 yards rushing on 11 attempts. senior running back adam holzmeister tacked on 38 yards rushing and a score, and junior receiver Jeremy riche led the team with 2 recep­tions for 72 yards, including a 60­yard touchdown pass to end the half. 
“The offensive line, i’ve just got to tip my cap,” mcdonough said. “we didn’t give up a single sack. we were able to run the ball all day. They dictated the tempo, and they get the game ball today.” 
dillon was able to muster one substantial drive, a two-play, 65­yard drive that included a 56-yard pass from Fink. on the next play, Fink earnedgot dillon its only points of the afternoon with a touchdown. 
see FinK PAGE 13 
tricky slate of conference op­ponents. on Friday, the irish beat louisville 2-1, taking re­venge on a cardinal team that beat them in both the regular season and playoffs last year. They then followed that up by throttling cincinnati 7-0 on sunday. 
waldrum was pleased with 
see playoFFs PAGE 14 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

seidel reflects one year later 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
The night before last december’s Foot locker cross country championships in san diego, current freshman molly seidel ended her college search. 
within 24 hours, she was a national champion. 
“it was really amazing, even almost a year later it’s still kind of a shock to think all that hap­pened,” seidel said. “it was one of my first really big national races. The year before i had a bad injury and didn’t get the chance to really do as well as i hoped at the regional or qualifi­ers, so it was such an honor and just such an incredible experi­ence, getting to go out.” 
but for notre dame women’s coach Tim connelly, who had known for several weeks that seidel intended to join his pro­gram, his recruit’s first-place finish in the high school na­tional championship meet wasn’t shocking at all. 
“i was really happy for molly because she’d been having a re­ally good season and had worked like crazy, so it was pretty cool for her to be able to finish it off like that,” connelly said. “The real­ity is for kids to get to that meet is very, very difficult, so to be able to run it, to be able to win it, is even that much bigger of an ac­complishment. but i also knew going in that she was one of the people who was capable of it, so it didn’t come out of left field.” 

although winning a race of 40 of the fastest high school runners in the country was certainly a career highlight, seidel said that getting to meet such talented runners was one of the best parts of the experience. 
“i got to meet a lot of really cool people,” seidel said. “it’s awe­some to meet so many people that cheer you on and it’s cool to meet so many of these people that are running at such a high level.” 
as she later found out, three of thoese runners would be­come her classmates. Freshmen 
see runners PAGE 14 
MEN’S GOLF 

Platt leads young squad 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 

his game as firmly connected to his past as geared toward his future, irish junior niall platt has a chance to shine for notre dame this season. 
The golfer with the second-lowest career stroke average in irish history will attempt to im­prove on his mark of 73.61 and add valuable experience to a young irish roster. 
in its first outing of the sea­son, notre dame stumbled to a ninth-place finish, 23 strokes off the lead, at the Tar heel intercollegiate over the week­end. but the largely inexperi­enced team’s first outing wasn’t a lost cause, platt said. 
“obviously we were a little disappointed with the way we played,” he said. “we have a young team, we have some guys out there who don’t have a lot of experience — we have a couple guys who have only played in one or two college tournaments 
— and i would say they per­formed decently well. it’s good for them to get some experience. and for me, at least, i know what i need to work on for the next tournament.” 
after earning big east freshman of the year honors two seasons ago and finding a spot on consecutive all-big east teams, platt will be expected to be one of the leaders for this irish squad both on the links and off. 

The santa barbara, calif., na­tive got his start at a young age as he learned the basics of the game from his father. but the education didn’t stop with the basics, platt said. 
“originally, i guess my dad got me into [golf] … he taught me from a very young age and i picked up on it pretty quick­ly,” he said. “i have definitely learned the most from my dad … he is still my main coach. he’s been my coach since i was like seven years old.” 

platt, an applied and compu­tational mathematics and sta­tistics major, has come a long 
see basics PAGE 14 






