The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 4  | FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Petition opposes suit against HHS mandate 
Students, faculty and staff submit letter challenging federal lawsuit filed by the University  
faculty are voicing a similar letter, according to brown. The observer, pogin said the genuine conflict with freedom 
By SAM STRYKER 
assistant managing editor opinion. The petition states though petition focuses on two addi-of religion, which we’re not 
over summer break, students the university may believe it tional issues with the lawsuit. convinced there is, at least with 
several months after the began circulating a petition “will advance its catholic mis-in the case, the university ar-respect to contraceptives, we university filed a lawsuit chal-opposing the university’s reli-sion” with the lawsuit, the sign-gues the federal mandate is think the legal argument favors lenging the constitutionality gious liberty lawsuit. The letter ees believe “the philosophical irreconcilable with the First compliance with the mandate.” of the department of health originated as a personal letter and legal arguments strongly amendment, the religious The mandate is part of and human services’ (hhs) written by graduate student favor compliance with the law.” Freedom restoration act and the patient protection and mandate requiring religious Kathryn pogin. “Further, we believe notre other laws protecting religious affordable care act, president organizations to provide con-more than 170 students, fac-dame would better serve its freedom. barack obama’s healthcare re­traceptive services as part of ulty and staff have signed the catholic mission by focusing on “First of all, it’s not clear to form legislation, passed in 2010. their minimum health insur-letter as of aug. 23. pogin said improving campus services for us that the university couldn’t The lawsuit, filed by ance packages, the govern-the letter was recently submit-families rather than embroiling comply with the mandate the university in the u.s. ment is moving to have the ted to Faculty senate to garner itself in a legal challenge,” the without remaining within district court for the northern case dismissed — and some additional signatures. Jenkins letter states. catholic practice,” she said. notre dame students, staff and responded July 27 with his own in an aug. 2 interview with “in addition, even if there is a see hhs PAGE 5 



Race hastens as November approaches 
Paul Ryan added to Republican ticket 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
after much speculation, presi­dential hopeful mitt romney se­lected rep. paul ryan, r-wisc., to join his bid for the white house as his running mate. differing opin­ions are emerging as to whether the addition to the gop ticket will bolster or weaken public favor. 
Journalism professor Jack colwell said the ryan pick was made with the intention of rein­vigorating the conservative base. 
see ryan PAGE 5 

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 



Debate surrounds economics and social issues 

By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 

as the new school year begins and the weather cools, the presi­dential race is just beginning to heat up. 
months of contentious debate have highlighted the economy as the issue of greatest concern to the electorate. americans are considering whether president barack obama’s progress on reviving the u.s. economy war­rants reelection, or if it’s time 
see elecTion PAGE 5 


b1 lineup gets mixed reviews 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
news editor 
The first official weekend of the school year is just around the cor­ner, and saturday’s b1 block party will once again kick off the semes­ter with an outdoor concert and festivities. 
presented by legends of notre dame, this year’s edition of the party will feature rock group boys like girls as its headliner, with electronic-pop duo breathe carolina opening the evening alongside several notre dame student bands. 
in addition to musical enter­tainment, the b1 block party boasts a rock wall, corn hole and a euro bungee trampoline, ac­cording to the legends website. 
see concerT PAGE 3 



irishenanigans PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 Keep calm and sTyle on PAGE 9 golson To sTarT PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your new school year resolution? 

Ashley Currey 
sophomore 
ryan 
“To not procrastinate.” 

John Hrabrick 
Junior 
o’neill 
“study like a champion.” 

Lauren Fessler 
Junior 
pangborn 
“go to the bathroom in every dorm.” 


Liz Garvin 
Junior welsh Family 
“do less.” 


Maria Kosse 
Junior 
pangborn 

“make new friends because all of mine are abroad.” 

Princely Muro 
Junior 
morrissey 

“attend every football game.” 
Observer File Photo 

On this day in history, Aug. 24, 2005, construction of the Jordan Hall of Science was in progress. Today, the building houses state-of­the-art laboratories, a conservatory, a greenhouse and a digital visualization theater. 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
John cameron andrew gastelum Email obsnews@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
christian myers conor Kelly mel Flanagan brian hartnett 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
sara shoemake Kevin noonan 


Photo Viewpoint 

Family Swim Biathalon Women’s Soccer Cassat and Beyond Last day for all class 
suzanna pratt laura rosas 

Assessment Boat House Alumni Stadium Snite Museum changes Rockne Memorial 10 a.m. - 12 p.m. 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. Ends October 7 Campus-wide 
5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. RecSports biathalon ND vs. East Carolina Exhibit highlighting All day 


Corrections 

Water activities at the at St. Joe’s Lake. modern artists. End of registration. The observer regards itself as pool. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Hamlet Men’s Soccer Moderni-TEA Swim Lesson Activities Night 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DPAC Alumni Statium Snite Museum Registration Joyce Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. Rockne Memorial 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Last production ND vs. Duke Sip tea and converse Closes September 7 Explore more than 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
in the week-long about modern art. Swim lessons for all 250 clubs and 
we can correct our error. 

Shakespeare Festival. ages. organizations at ND. 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2012 | The observer 



sao offers free events 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news writer 
notre dame students like to have fun. Tonight, they get the chance to prove it — for free. 
an evening of campus-wide frivolity and entertainment, irishenanigans will take place beginning at 8 p.m. The student activities office (sao) organized the event, coordinating a variety of unusual entertainment oppor­tunities to encourage students to explore campus and interact with peers. 
david mattingly, program as­sociate for sao, said a wide range of events is to take place on cam­american gladiators, complete with nerf guns and inflatable ob­stacles,” mattingly said. “expect glow-in-the-dark laser tag at stepan too, with a fire-juggling show at 10:30 p.m.” 
Free food is also part of the fes­tivities. mattingly said a cupcake truck parked near north Quad will hand out 1,200 gourmet cup­cakes, with a smoothie distribu­tion stationed nearby. a trivia game in The huddle at midnight will offer “quarter dogs” as prizes, and elephant ears will be avail­able near stepan center. 
mattingly hopes the events will draw out both new and returning students to get better acquainted mattingly said sao tried to or­chestrate something that would appeal to everyone, so his office organized a vast array events and activities. students look­ing for a workout can try their hands at blitz ball and laser Tag in stepan center, or at the hourly games of capture the Flag on the recsports fields. students seek­ing a more relaxing time can lis­ten to live music played by the pop/rock band south Jordan, or catch a game of glow-in-the-dark corn hole. 
mattingly said he hoped the variety of activities will draw a variety of students who might not typically interact. 


director advocates service-learning 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
associate saint mary’s editor 
The more than 400 first years settling into campus aren’t the only fresh faces at saint mary’s this fall. erika buhring has taken up post as the new direc­tor for the office for civic and social engagement (ocse) and experiential learning coordinator at the college. 
buhring said her background attracted her to saint mary’s in the academic world will serve her well in her new position at the college. 
“i’m eager to learn what has been done before, but i’m also looking forward to creating new opportunities as we move forward,” she said. “my role is split between on- and off-cam­pus work, and i find that very appealing.” 
buhring’s role with the ocse will focus especially on student-community relations. she said 70 percent of her work is with the division of mission, which 

pus, mostly between laFortune with campus and each other. “The event is really just a so-
student center and stepan “we want students to go to cial tool, a way to meet people,” 
center. all of the activities are washington hall, and then to mattingly said. “you can do the 
free to students. stepan and then laFortune,” cool exciting stuff or the more 
“we have a comedy troupe mattingly said. “we want them to relaxing activities. There’s some-
coming from new york to per-understand that campus is fun, thing for everyone.” 
form at washington hall at 9 and that it’s exciting to be coming 
p.m., and stepan center will back here for the year.” Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski involves various learning and 

volunteering opportunities. 
“i’m most looking forward to 
working with all of the students 
and getting them excited about 
working and learning about the 
community,” buhring said. 

have an event [inspired by nbc’s] in planning the event, at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Concert 
conTinued From page 1 
students of legal drinking age can enjoy a cold brew in the legends beer garden, as well. 
past incarnations of the event featured musical groups like girl Talk, guster, matisyahu and eric hutchinson, but reception for this year’s lineup has been mixed among students. 
Freshman Tony maley said the bands chosen disappointed him, but plans to still attend with friends to enjoy music he has not heard since middle school. 
“They had a couple hits, a few songs, and they haven’t really been relevant since,” 
maley said. “it will be fun to hear some songs that were cool back in eighth grade, but the picks weren’t great, i’d say.” 
Junior elizabeth owers said she didn’t think this year’s musi­cal lineup was worth the $10 en­trance fee. 
“i went to the concert the past two years, and i had a good time because i went with my friends and it was fun because of the atmo­sphere,” she said. “but i prefer to do something else on saturday night, and i don’t want to pay $10 … to see a band i’m not a huge fan of.” 
Junior anna carmack said she doesn’t plan on attending, based on the level of student excitement for the show. 
“i didn’t really know girl Talk that well either, but i’d heard of them,” she said. “i went to girl Talk last year because friends were go­ing and people were excited, but i haven’t really heard that much excitement about boys like girls.” 
although other students were unenthused about the selection of boys like girls, sophomore laura gardner said the lack of space at last year’s event was a bigger deal breaker for her decision not to at­tend this year’s block party. 
“it’s like millions of dancing jellybeans inside a taco shell,” gardner said. 
sophomore Joe corsaro said his disappointing time at last year’s block party would discourage him from attending again this weekend. 
“i would rather sit through college ‘has’ issues another time than go to the block 
party again,” corsaro said. 
Junior marye colleen larme said she still plans to attend the event. 
“i never miss an opportunity to go to a concert,” she said. 
News writers Tori Roeck and Dan Brombach contributed to this report. 

Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
unique identity. 
“i’m a big believer in the pri­vate, liberal arts education,” she said. “i’ve lived in it, worked in it and i have a lot of respect for saint mary’s. i’m intrigued by the spirit of saint mary’s in that it is a women’s college.” 
buhring, who graduated from grinnell college in iowa with a bachelor of arts de­gree in sociology, has years of experience with non-profit groups and various education organizations. 
she received her master of education and ph.d. in curriculum and instruction from the university of illinois at chicago before becoming an assistant professor at concordia university chicago. prior to join­ing the faculty at saint mary’s, buhring served as an assistant professor in the educational studies department at monmouth college in illinois. 
buhring said her experiences 
The remainder of buhring’s role consists of working along­side and supporting the college’s faculty and staff, she said. 
“i am really excited to get to work with the faculty and all of 
“I’m most looking 
forward to 
working with all 
of the students 
and getting them 
excited about 
working and 
learning about 


the community.” 
Erika Buhring 
Director for the Office for 
Civic and Social Engagement 
their creativity,” she said. “i want to get people excited about inte­grated learning opportunities.” 
buhring said she hopes the students and faculty who work with the ocse will value the im­portance of volunteering in the community. she wants there to be a reciprocal relationship between the volunteers and the community, grounded in mutual support and collabora­tive learning, a relationship she believes will benefit students in the long term. 
“one of the biggest pushes i make is with students and get­ting them to have a connection between what they’re doing now, and how this work affects what they’re doing in the fu­ture,” she said. 
buhring said the service and learning opportunities ar­ranged by the office are intend­ed to provide rich benefits to the volunteers, regardless of the type of work or group served. 
“i really like the idea of foster­ing the spirit of life-long learn­ing,” she said. “your work is not just for a grade. it is much bigger than that.” 


Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2012 | The observer 






Ryan 
conTinued From page 1 
“i think [the selection] helped initially by energizing the base, especially the very conserva­tive and Tea party voters, who were suspicious of romney, and thought that maybe he was a moderate,” colwell said. “[romney] wanted to have the campaign focus on economic is­sues … he thought ryan was kind of the ‘fiscal guy,’ chairman of the house budget committee.” 
colwell said voter participation is likely to be the determining fac­tor in the race. 
“That’s the key,” he said. “The country is pretty well split down the middle. whichever side gets their voters to the polls could de­cide it.” 
although the gop ticket with ryan stands to make gains from the right, colwell said ryan’s past stands on social programs and economic issues may hurt romney’s prospects with senior citizens. 
“you have medicare in the bud­get that [ryan] initially passed through the house,” he said. “his proposal to have a voucher system is having real problems, especially in Florida.” 
women, colwell said, will be hesitant to vote for a ticket with the ardently pro-life candidate attached. 
“The big problem is that it’s not helping with women, and there’s already a big gender gap, with women, by a sizable margin, for [president barack] obama,” he said. 
colwell said the media’s associ­ating ryan with recent comments made by rep. Todd akin, r-miss., regarding abortion in the case of rape has created an additional challenge with the women’s vote. ryan previous co-sponsored a bill with akin that included an exception on prohibiting govern­ment funding of abortion in the case of “forceable” rape, colwell said. 
“The worst thing is Todd akin’s [comments],” he said. “That’s something that romney couldn’t have envisioned. it brought up the whole abortion issue.” 
sophomore patrick butler, di­rector of political affairs for notre dame’s college republicans, said he expects the debate to refocus on the economic issues, where the ryan pick is bound to make a strong statement. 
“They want to make a very bold contrast between the current ad­ministration and how romney will handle things,” butler said. “it’s a very bold statement about the economy and medicare.” 
butler admitted ryan’s tight fiscal policies are unlikely to win over many seniors, but said they may attract younger americans concerned with the deficit.
 “it might help among students like us. This is our future. we kind of have to worry about [the defi­cit]. i’d say it really depends on how much of ryan’s plan romney endorses.” 
college democrats president camille suarez said ryan’s poli­cies could isolate an even larger portion of the populace. 
“i think the ryan pick is defi­nitely going to lose the lower-middle class,” she said. “if you look at his budget plan, it’s going to make taxes go up for middle america.” 
suarez said his very conserva­tive views might have more im­pact on the campaign process than simply winning or losing votes. 
“he’s kind of representing the republican economic plan, and it’s doing a lot to polarize the elec­tion,” she said. “That isn’t good for either party, and it gives the inde­pendent voters a harder choice.” 
after the media frenzy sur­rounding the vice-presidential nomination of the then-alaska governor sarah palin in 2008, colwell said ryan is a more reli­able choice. 
“ryan is no sarah palin,” he said. “she was not ready for pri­metime. i think ryan is ... if some­one asks what newspapers he reads, he’ll be able to name one.” 
butler said ryan is more de­pendable and independent than his opposition, the sitting vice president. 
“ryan can definitely hold his own,” he said. “you don’t have to be worried about what he says, unlike Joe biden.” 
butler said the ryan choice served as a reminder for his club to stay on point. 
“i think it energized at least our leadership,” he said. “we have to realize we have an election com­ing up, and i think the paul ryan pick has gotten us to realize this is the home stretch.” 
suarez said her club is now more driven to keep the ad­ministration in office and pre­vent ryan’s policies from being implemented. 
“i think we’re going to focus more on the national election now he’s been nominated,” she said. “even the [u.s. conference of catholic] bishops spoke out against [ryan’s economic plan] which raises a red flag ... we need to do all we can to make sure he’s not in office.” 
Though colwell said he be­lieves ryan is a good strategic choice for romney, his viability as a running mate won’t be clear until november. 
“i thought he was a good choice, and ultimately, if romney goes on to win, it will be analyzed as a good choice,” he said. “The jury’s out on this, the focus for weeks now is on these social issue and on what ‘legitimate rape’ is and things like that, that will just kill the republican ticket ... They’ll certainly try to avoid that, and possibly, they can get the focus on the economy.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



Election 
conTinued From page 1 
for republican challenger mitt romney to try his hand. 
political science professor peri arnold said most of the national polls indicate the race is extreme­ly close, with obama ahead by narrow margins. 
“a compilation of national polls show that obama’s run­ning about a percent ahead … That’s tight,” arnold said. “when you look at the key swing states, obama is leading in most of those by a very small percent.” 
however, american studies professor Jack colwell said these projections leave plenty of oppor­tunity for romney to gain favor be­fore election day on november 6. 
“The economy is still the big­gest problem for the president, and if some figures come out be­fore the election that show the economy worsening, that could swing some voters,” colwell said.  “The president has to con­vince people that yes, he can turn around the economy.” 
arnold said the lack of marked improvement in the economy is an obvious target issue for the republican party. romney’s campaign, however, has failed to fully exploit this weakness. 
“presidents with that kind of economy don’t generally get reelected,” arnold said. “The romney campaign keeps get­ting bogged down in other mat­ters, and when that happens, the economy as an issue seems to fade into the background.” 
colwell said these other matters revolve around the republican’s struggle to retain appeal in light of the actions and words of some of the party’s members. 
“mitt romney’s big problem is the republican brand,” colwell said.  “some of the things hap­pening this week like, [rep.] 

Todd akin’s [r-miss.] speech in missouri have made it clear that people are really down on both parties, they’re more down on the republican party.” 
after picking ryan as his running mate, romney’s con­nection to more conservative republicans has been strength­ened and the gender gap has wid­ened, colwell said. 
“people keep talking about the fact that ryan and akin spon­sored a bill that defined catego­ries of rape and what ‘legitimate’ rape is,” he said. “There was a huge gender gap already, but this accentuates that gap.” 
arnold said ryan’s politics re­main on the periphery of what many americans believe. 
“i think that initially, the ryan pick was a good pick,” arnold said. “romney has not proven to be a good campaign performer, but now he seems energized. The problem is that ryan is extremely conservative and that the details of the ryan budget include lots of things the americans don’t like.” 
colwell said romney’s over­seas trip earlier this month hurt his image in the eyes of the voters. 
“he had a number of stumbles there,” colwell said. “That won’t decide the election, but that was just another one of those things that caused people to say ‘oh, wait a minute, do we want this guy as president?’” 
arnold said this trip reflected romney’s unease at being in the spotlight. 
“one of romney’s greatest problems is that he’s not an easy public speaker,” arnold said. “he’s afraid to reveal himself, and gets caught up in these mala­propisms and saying the wrong things.” 
competing with obama’s like-ability and oratorical skill are two of the hurdles in romney’s road to the presidency, colwell said. 
“people seem still to like obama personally,” colwell said. “They think he’s a decent person and a good family man trying to do the best that he can. “[voters might] trust him more.” 

colwell said the republican political action committees (pacs) are able to outspend the democrat backers, giving the gop greater resources to reach voters with. 
“The super-pacs with their negative attack ads, they’ll be able to spend more and dent obama’s likeability,” colwell said. “They will bring up things, especially on the economy that will portray him as being too far to the left.” 
political science professor vincent munoz said another potential roadblock for obama is a perceived assault on re­ligious liberty by the obama administration. 
“he’s not been very accom­modating to the concerns that catholics and other religious groups have [expressed] about religious liberty.” 
munoz said though many catholics have voted for democrats because of their per­ceived support of social justice initiatives, this might not remain the case on election day. 
“The question is, do people who voted for obama in 2008 feel so burdened by the administra­tion that they might switch their vote?” munoz said. 
munoz said he is interested to see how young voters act on election day. 
“i think the growing question in our politics is whether the huge debt that we’ve been accumulat­ing is unjust to younger genera­tions,” munoz said.  “i asked my classes this afternoon, ‘are any of you going to get social security?’ and not a single hand went up. This is morally problematic.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
HHS 
conTinued From page 1 
district of indiana on may 21, names hhs secretary Kathleen sebelius, labor secretary hilda solid, Treasury secretary Timothy geithner and their respec­tive departments as defendants, according to court documents. 
in an email to The observer, university spokesman dennis brown said the case has been as­signed. with the government mov­ing to have the case dismissed, he said notre dame would respond in early september. 
“all of this is standard proce­dure,” he said. 
notre dame law school profes­sor rick garnett said his impres­sion is the university is ultimately looking to “vindicate” its religious freedom rights in filing the lawsuit. 
garnett said it is “noteworthy” notre dame challenged the man­date because the university does not oppose the overarching goals of the affordable care act. 
“it would be highly implausible for anyone to suggest that the university is a ‘partisan’ actor, or is seeking to embarrass the president or the obama administration,” he said. 
“That the university of notre dame, which has worked to main­tain respectful dialogue with the president and the administration, was put in the position of having to bring a lawsuit in order to protect its religious-freedom rights almost certainly captured many citizens’ attention,” he said. 
garnett said the university’s complaint presents nine different causes of action, some challenging the mandate on technical grounds, while others focus on “defects” in the process of forming the man­date. others highlight inconsisten­cies with the First amendment of the u.s. constitution. 
“and, in count 1, the university contends that the mandate vio­lates the federal religious Freedom restoration act (rFra), which provides — in layperson’s terms — that the federal government has to show that burdens it imposes on religious exercise are necessary in order to accomplish a ‘compelling governmental interest,’” he said. 
“put differently, the act pro­vides that the government should, to the extent possible, find ways to accommodate religious believ­ers, even when it is legislating to achieve important goals.” 
garnett said he believes notre dame’s case is strong. Focusing on the rFra portion of the case, he said the mandate saddles the university with a responsibil­ity that contradicts its “religious­ly-motivated aspiration” to be a preeminent catholic research university. 
“and, the burden is unnecessary, because it would be possible for the government to achieve its goal of expanding insurance coverage for ‘preventive services’ while accom­modating religious institutions like the university,” he said. 
There is no specific timeline for the case, garnett said, and similar cases are pending across the coun­try in different stages. 
“in theory, the case could go all the way to the supreme court,” he said. “it could also, however, end much earlier in the process, depending on whether or not the administration revises the rule, or on the outcome of the november election. 
garnett said it is standard procedure for the university to have named sebelius, solid and geithner as defendants in the law­suit because it is naming them in their official capacities, not as pri­vate citizens. 
News Editor Kristen Durbin contributed to this report. 


Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 



reverse culture shock 


Anna Boarini 
news writer 

when i was getting ready to go to nepal, i tried to prepare myself for liv­ing in a culture very different from my own. i read about the culture and talk­ed to anyone and everyone i could who had been to nepal before. i was ready to deal with culture shock. what i wasn’t prepared for was the culture shock i would experience when i got home. 
i got off the plane at o’hare and made it through customs smoothly. everything was going fine. and then i had to talk to someone. hearing english being spoken freaked me out. my first language is english, and it’s not like i never heard it in nepal, but i was so used to the sound of nepali that hear­ing english was weird. Then, i noticed just how many white people there were. no joke, when i saw all the blondes with blue eyes, i got nervous. i didn’t know how to act. i didn’t understand why ev­eryone around me looked like i did. 
The worst though was going through security. on a normal day, security at o’hare can make even the most hard­ened traveler nervous. well, i was not at my best when i walked into that security line. i was tired from travel­ing for two days. i was jetlagged out of my mind. i still had a tika (a red mark, made from powder that is a blessing) on my forehead. and i was dressed like a total bohemian hippie, complete with purple mc hammer parachute pants, looking the part of the traveler return­ing from south asia. 
Just being in line for security was so overwhelming, i started to cry. i al­ready looked like a crazy person from what i was wearing, and the tears did not make it any better. The Tsa agents probably thought i was some sort of criminal. 
once i made it through secu­rity, i barely caught my connecting plane. i didn’t leave my culture shock in chicago; it has followed me to indianapolis and south bend. 
hot water still freaks me out. air conditioning makes me so cold, that my lips actually turned blue in class. i think chicken tastes bad, and cheese is a super-weird food. 
now, there are definite perks for be­ing back in the u.s. i can get diet coke whenever i want. The power doesn’t just go off for any reason. i can do laun­dry in a washing machine and not by hand in my shower. i was ready to come home at the end of the summer. but i had no idea how weird the u.s. would seem. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Gary J. Caruso 
capitol comments 

wow, what a summer! 
The advent of each school year ushers in that mundane question, “how was your summer?” short of the June landmark supreme court decision upholding the affordable care act, a.k.a., obamacare, many from the notre dame community ex­perienced a similarly momentous summer. This year’s warm weather brought cheers, jeers and lucrative payouts to some alumni, providence and misfortune to others, ar­rests and unveilings within the football pro­gram along with legal wrangling from the administration. summer was characterized by a collective “wow” factor typically unfelt by so many domers during one season. 
campus administrators bookended their “offseason” by first, filing a religious freedom law suit over healthcare cover­age mandates against the federal govern­ment the day after graduation. while the university chose for financial reasons to self-insure its healthcare recipients — purely a secular business model decision
 — somehow administrators want to claim a moral religious freedom objection against providing contraception for non-catholic and non-christian employees. what was that adage about giving to caesar what is caesar’s while holding up roman coins? 
in mid- to late-summer, Fighting irish quarterback Tommy rees and linebacker carlo calabrese faced consequences from a skirmish with local law enforcement offi­cials. both were suspended from the open­ing game in dublin. but as part of youth, every college-aged person makes unwise decisions, unfortunately more times than not as part of maturing. i personally was no stranger to stupidity at college. hopefully they learned a valuable, but painful lesson. does anyone believe that learning how to make better choices now can translate onto the field of play? 
earlier this month, athletic administrators unveiled their new football uniform design. Their chaotically clut­tered, visually amateurish football uniform design was reminiscent of any high school. Talk about tarnishing the classic notre dame football brand. notre dame now rivals the university of maryland for wear­ing the silliest split-colored helmet design of sparkling gold popcorn on one side, with a menacing fighting leprechaun insignia reminiscent of a cirque du soleil painted clown on the other. may this writer sug­gest that the athletic department sponsor a campus contest to redesign your football mess by maintaining some classic uniform elements, while possibly concentrating on the jerseys and pants, not the helmets? 
several alumni have experienced inter­esting summers as well. on the lighter side, semi-retired regis philbin (’53) continued to wander through Td bank commercials saying silly things while laughing about an increase to his personal bank account. politically, republican virginia governor bob mcdonnell (’76) noted that he was honored to be on the gop vice presidential short list. however, earlier this year, virginia democrats bestowed upon him the title “governor ultrasound” after he supported legislation mandating that any woman considering abortion must submit to a trans-vaginal ultrasound, even against her will or against her doctor’s advice. after an uproar, the gop legislature amended the bill to require an external ultrasound, that as mcdonnell’s signing statements notes, “can help the mother make a fully informed decision” about having an abortion and “some type of requirement that a woman be offered a view of an ultrasound before an abortion can be performed.” shall we call this a neutral summer for mcdonnell? 
my good personal friend, california gop 
u.s. representative dan lungren (’68) — truly the first person i think of when i tell others that some of my best friends are republicans — has fought a more difficult summer. This month, during two town hall events, protesters challenged lungren by calling him too extreme for office, a war­rior against women and unfit for congress. one protester called for citizens to hold lungren accountable for his “stoned-aged views” noting his denial of science in favor of oil and gas lobby interests. could enough Fred Flintstones live and vote in lungren’s district this year to save my good friend’s election? 
closer to campus, political happen­stance affects the second congressional district. paradoxically, our sitting double domer, democratic congressman Joe donnelly (’77, ’81 Jd), who beat former gop congressman chris chocola in 2006, can now thank chocola for the opportu­nity to win the indiana u.s. senate seat in november. chocola is president of The club for growth, an organization whose mis­sion “promotes essential american policies through pro-growth policies and economic freedom.” The organization affected the gop primary by successfully toppling in­cumbent u.s. senator richard lugar
 — apparently by unmasking the rhodes scholar’s anti-growth and economic en­slavement bent. may we call this the “luck of the irish” for donnelly? 
in washington this summer, the political parties and presidential campaigns geared for their run-up to november. in softball, the rnc beat the dnc in the last inning. The congressional democrats whipped the gop 18-5 in baseball. The congressional women lost their softball game by a couple runs to the women’s media team. Take what trends you like from these results. 
so, how was your summer? 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“of all god’s creatures there is only one that cannot be made the slave of the lash. That one is the cat. if man could be crossed with cat it would improve man, but it would deteriorate the cat.” 
Mark Twain 

American author and humorist 


WEEKLY POLL 

why did you decide to come to notre dame? 
•	 
For the academics - 53 percent 

•	 
For the athletics - 15 percent 

•	 
For the weather - 15 percent 

•	 
For the dining hall fare - 17 percent 






On experiencing books outdoors 
Margaret Emma Brandl 
guest columnist 

For one saturday in summer, i read a book in a tree at my grandmother’s house. i was never one for climbing trees, unless the sap-sticky scratchy pines beside the tiny church ever counted. barely bushes, they were long bending branches with so many pieces sticking out that my sunday school compatriots and i would clamor into the hall minutes before mass, scraped and sticky, with pine needles mixed with beads of blood (from the roughness of the bark) ruining our clean church clothes. 
Knowing i was afraid of heights without having ever really experienced heights in actuality, i never had the guts to climb a real tree. i knew the stories about uncle carl, my mother’s young­est brother, who had been an expert at climbing trees, but less well-versed in the process of getting down from them. aware, then, that going up a tree also meant getting down from it, i decided against such explorations. 
The day came, however, that (if i re­member right) this tree growing into the side of the fence would be trimmed or otherwise cut down, and as my mother and i examined it reverently, she sug­gested i sit in it. The notch in which one could sit was not very high up — over my head, but i was small. with some boosting from her or my father, i  forget exactly, i found myself settled in the notch between two branches. The sun was shining brightly and the sky was blue and somewhere i could hear a lawn mower (always in shreveport i could hear a lawn mower). The bark was warm in the sun. once i was up, i requested my book which my mother had to re­trieve. what i was even reading i forget, as i remember paying little attention to it — perhaps a volume collected from grammy’s dusty library shelf. i was more interested in the treeness, of the experience of being-in-tree. 
i recall that, on the whole, the adven­ture was short-lived. i realized the tree was not exactly comfortable, that the shapes of the branches formed a seat but not a nice one, that i was tired of reading the book i wasn’t really reading and that i would like to do something else like try on dresses in the closet or pick out songs on the piano or find whatever choco­late/ice cream/cookies there were to be 

LETTERS 

From your student government 
welcome back! focused heavily on strengthening our 
one of our administration’s main off-campus relations through meet-goals this year is to improve the com-ings with the local chiefs of police. be munication between the notre dame on the lookout for an email with im­student body and student government. portant information about staying safe To that end, student government is off-campus. very excited to update you on some of in the coming semester, student the initiatives we have already accom-government’s main focus will be on plished since taking office on april 1st, expanding inclusion in the notre dame as well as our plans for the upcoming family, ensuring that all students feel semester. welcome on campus.  we will approach 
some new everyday conveniences this from two different angles:  first, that you may notice around campus in-through actively supporting the es­clude hydration stations in every dorm tablishment of a gay-straight alliance and new food vendors in laFortune. student organization, in partnership one of notre dame’s top priorities is to with the Four to Five movement, and continue making campus more sustain-secondly, through continued support able. Thanks to funding from the office of the call to action movement which of housing, we are one step closer to began last spring. this goal, saving tens of thousands of as we work with the university on plastic water bottles since the hydration both of these issues, we hope you will stations were installed this summer. tell us your ideas on ways to make For your eating enjoyment, a Taco bell/ sure our campus is as welcoming and pizza hut has recently opened in the friendly as possible. we promise to basement of laFortune, and a panda keep you updated on processes and express is coming soon. decisions made by the university and 
student government has also been look forward to hearing your feedback busy behind the scenes, working on throughout the semester! if there is ever initiatives that may not be as visible anything you want to see improved or to students.  The oiT freshmen secu-changed here at notre dame, don’t hesi­rity trainings have been reformed and tate to visit us in 203 laFortune — our switched to in-hall trainings. we have door is always open! also worked with the gender relations center on improving sexual assault re-Brett Rocheleau source trainings for ras. we hope that student body president these sorts of changes will pervade the campus as a whole to create a safer liv-Katie Rose ing environment. student body vice president 
Finally, our administration has august 23 found in the house. i demanded to be retrieved and hoisted myself out of that space, where i must have been caught by daddy or mom. 
when i discovered books on tape were sometimes read by the author, i decided that i wanted to hear madeleine l’engle read me “a wrinkle in Time.” on first picking up the book, i discovered the protagonist was named meg, which was all i needed to be interested. in the space of a few pages, i was transported into this great science-fiction-fantasy space in which god was still present and in which there was a space for my christianity in this brave and beautiful world. 
From the children’s room of the public library i retrieved the tapes i wanted 
— “a wrinkle in Time;” later, “a wind in the door,” though i would fall asleep listening to that one. with my trusty beige and brown tape player/recorder i set up camp on the swingset, plac­ing the thing on the wooden platform by the slide. i was swinging, climbing, hanging upside-down from the metal bar and twisting my hands in the rings as madeleine l’engle, grandmotherly, taught me how to properly pronounce things like the name of the murrays’ dog (Fortinbras) and what it meant that mrs. which talked llliiiiKKKKeeeee Thhhhiiiiisssssss (it was an echo). caught there between the swings of my swingset and, later, sprawled on a blan­ket in the open grass as the sun disap­peared, i began to feel an autumn chill. i saw myself in some windy new england town, where a little farmy piece of land with landmarks like “the star-watching rock” produced margaret, sandy, denys, and charles wallace murray, and calvin o’Keefe. with mrs. l’engle’s calming voice to carry me i rediscovered my backyard. i saw the brick colors of the back patio, the flat roof of the sunroom, the climbing plants that clung to our little green fence, the locks on the gates, the slope down the hill where i had made my fairy-houses, the red clay and light brown mud that i had squished my toes in during a heavy rain on a day on which my mother had felt adventurous as well. i breathed the grass and saw the colors the sky turned as night fell. 
Contact Margaret Emma Brandl at mbrandl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


UWIRE 


Amazon will seize 3-D printing 
for many niche companies to compete Sam Finegold with amazon.  amazon is well positioned 
harvard political review 
to take advantage of 3-d printing, but it also stands to lose out if it does not stay 
3-d printing is going to revolution-ahead of the curve. ize online shopping. amazon ceo and but there are several ways bezos and founder Jeff bezos realizes that, and prob-his company can anticipate and lead the ably envisions amazon orchestrating the change in 3-d printing. revolution. as a testament to how seriously The first step would probably be to buy bezos takes 3-d printing, bezos, along up companies such as shapeways, which with two other venture capital groups, are already allowing users to upload de­helped makerbot, a seller of consumer 3-d signs and customers to then print these printers and the accompanying necessary designs. amazon can also create in-house materials, raise $10 million. 3-d printing and tools on its site to em-
3-d printing operates like a 2-d printer, bellish conventional products using its but adds another dimension out of the in-house 3-d printing.  it is unlikely that plane of the paper. it does so through re-most adults will have the necessary skills, peated deposition of layers of a liquid plas-the time and interest to design complex tic or melted metal ink. The technology products. amazon can offer the easy al­has followed moore’s law, rapidly decreas-ternative: offer customizable products. ing in cost.  major companies, including by acquiring companies and hiring in-general electric, have proposed using house designers, amazon can head off 3-d printing in manufacturing processes. the inevitable diversity of suppliers and additionally, smaller companies use instead establish itself as a marketplace for 3-d printing to produce niche products. different users to upload their designs, as bespoke innovations 3-d prints artistic, shapeways already does. custom prosthetics. it is even possible to so my advice: buy stock in amazon. print cell phone circuitry. not only did its ceo redefine the book 
3-d printing will link the virtual and industry; he is also heavily involved in the physical world seamlessly.  users will be privatized space industry.  when it comes able to download a computer animated to 3-d printing, which has been hailed the drawing (cad) file and print the desired next trillion-dollar industry, i would not be product in their home, or maybe print the surprised if bezos has already pounced. product at a regional center kitted with more heavy duty printers capable of print-This column originally ran in the Aug. ing more complicated objects. 3-d print-14 issue of the Harvard Political Review, ing will also diversify suppliers, as it will serving Harvard University. require less infrastructure and investment The views expressed in this column are to begin a company if product design is en-those of the author and not necessarily those tirely virtual.  Therefore, it will be possible of The Observer. 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 
big, big disclaimer at the out­set: i am not a theatre scholar. i am not a shakespeare scholar. in fact, 99 times out of a hun­dred, i spell “theater” like a real american, “er” instead of “re.” 
in a review of a performance of “hamlet,” one of the great­est works of art in history, my approach is that of an outsider looking in on the spectacle, as i imagine most students at the university who view the play this weekend might be. 
and as an outsider, with limit­ed knowledge of the nuance and true depth, i can say from simple first-person observation that the notre dame shakespeare Festival’s final show of the sea­son, “hamlet,” is a fast-moving, visually striking and overall gripping performance. 
The opening scene of the play sees almost the entire cast on stage for the funeral of King hamlet, and the physical pres­ences of the different key actors and visual choreography sets the tone for the whole show. 
hamlet is physically apart from the rest of the mourners on stage in the scene, and his stature and physical movements fairly portray the uncertainty and self-doubt that torment the classic character. 
andy Truschinski, a veteran of the notre dame shakespeare Festival, stars as hamlet, and does a more than adequate job. he looks and feels the part from start to finish, and the audience feels his internal torment. 
however, because of the loft­ed status of the role, it’s hard to say he was outstanding. with a character as famous as hamlet, an actor must truly blow away the audience in order to break away from the pack, and good as Trushinski was, he falls just short of spectacular. 
Jeff cummings as the antago­nist, hamlet’s uncle and step­father, King claudius, steals the show. cummings is delightfully and powerfully wicked on stage, playing both sides of the charac­ter — the sickly-sweet traitor and silently tormented soul — with equal force. 
claudius is a character some­times overlooked in the story, as hamlet dominates so much of the attention. but in this show, claudius transforms into the most fascinating and eye-grab­bing character in the production. every time cummings steps on stage, he commands complete attention and delivers a truly fantastic performance. 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 
King claudius was not the only standout either. ophelia, hamlet’s lover turned men­tal case, and horatio, hamlet’s friend and confidant, are both played with surprising strength and soul. 
The director, david bell, de­serves praise as well. he has cho­reography in his background, and it shows in the strongly co­ordinated scenes. 
equally impressive is his choice of setting. The characters are dressed in modern clothes, looking like they’re taken out of the 1950’s, with the title charac­ter being dressed in what prep-school clothes throughout. This makes the show more relatable and gives it a much crisper feel than the flowy, old-timey look of shakespeare’s time might have dictated. 
bell’s most insightful directo­rial choices come in his abridg­ing of the play. Though a straight reading of the text might take around four-and-a-half hours, bell’s breakneck-paced version comes through in just under three. 
This accomplishes two things. First, the play moves along at such a quick pace, the audience is constantly on their toes. There is never a dull moment, never a temptation to drift off. 
second, and more artistically important, is it captures in a physical sense the rapid and cha­otic nature of the story. hamlet loses his father, sees his mother marry his uncle, kills his lover’s father, enacts a plan of reveng, and dies along with his mother and uncle all within a period of a few months. with a play that moves so quickly and slows down for nothing, the audience truly gets a feel for the hectic se­ries of events. 
notre dame students may not be ready to break down the story for a literary journal, but as far as relatable and palatable plays go, this one is one of the best stu­dents will get the chance to see this year. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

On Campus 
What:  “Hamlet,” presented by Shakespeare at Notre Dame 
Where: DPAC When: Tonight through Sunday, August 26 
How Much: $14 with student ID Learn More: performingarts.nd.edu 


Dan Brombach 
scene writer 


don’t be fooled by the name: imagine dragons is not a cheesy kid’s cartoon show from the 1990s, nor is it a board game played by balding, four-alarm man-children in the comfort of their parents’ basements. it’s an alternative band from las vegas, and a darn good one too. 
i didn’t stumble upon “continued silence,” the band’s new ep, until last may, but it didn’t take long for it to become the soundtrack of my summer. 
imagine dragons’ style is diverse and hard to pin down, at times combining folk rock with surprisingly heavy bass lines, but frankly that’s what makes the band so enjoyable. 
The songs “on Top of the world” and “it’s Time” are upbeat, yet out of the box, using a vari­ety of instruments, from whistles to ukuleles, in strangely tasteful fashion. 
my personal favorite track, “radioactive,” has a dubstep-inspired beat that never fails to shake the walls.  if you’re searching for a great workout song, or just a way to quickly tick off your entire hall staff, find some nice speakers and turn it up. 
“continued silence” is a fresh offering from a band with a lot of potential.  i would definitely recommend a download. 


when i first listened to The lumineers last march, shortly before the april release of their self-titled album, all i could think was, “why the heck aren’t these guys famous?” 
checking youTube, i discovered that most of their videos had less than 1,000 views, with the only comments coming from rabid hipsters say­ing things like “This just made me spill my latté,” and “if these guys go mainstream, i’ll never shower again.”  well, not really, but you get the idea. 
with their album now sitting high on the iTunes top-seller list, the lumineers have finally hit the big time, and i couldn’t be happier. 
hailing from denver, The lumineers combine the boot-stomping rhythm of mumford and sons with thought-provoking lyrics and truly power­ful story telling. For instance, “stubborn love” is told from the perspective of a young man who can’t forget the woman who broke his heart, standing on her porch and refusing to “leave until you come downstairs.” 
The more lighthearted song “submarines” tells the story of a man who spots a Japanese submarine out at sea and frantically attempts to convince his fellow townsfolk of their imminent danger. 
his efforts in vain, the narrator gives some parting words about the importance of being trustworthy, saying, “in the end it boils down to credibility/i had none so i will die with the se­crets of the sea.” 
if you like mumford and sons, or music in gen­eral, give The lumineers a listen. i promise you won’t be disappointed. 

i’ve listened to plenty of bad music during my life, but nicki minaj’s new album “pink Friday: roman reloaded” takes the term “unapologeti­cally terrible” to new and exciting extremes. while nicki’s stage antics, weird clothes and an alleged set of buttock injections (that’s right, buttock injections) have brought her money and fame, the fact remains that her music is still the audio equivalent of being water boarded. 
i’ll admit it, when “starships” comes on at a party i’m the obnoxious guy who belts out every word at the top of his lungs. i know for a fact that most girls are fans of the song too, because i can’t check Facebook without seeing some photo al­bum titled “hands up and touch the sky.” 
however, one catchy song can’t save this al­bum from being designated the worst of all time. allow me to explain why. 
First of all, the beats are uninspired and some­times downright weird. second, the song lyrics are often mind-numbingly repetitive and stupid to the point of being funny — musical genius at its absolute finest. 
my recommendation would be to avoid “pink Friday: roman reloaded” at all costs.  if you do come into contact with the album, remember to wash your hands with copious amounts of soap and cold water. 
Contact  Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the au­thor and not  necessarily  those of The Observer. 


KEEP 


CALM 
AND 


STYLE ON 
Contact  Jes Christian at jchrist7@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not  necessarily  those of The Observer. 
Jes Christian 
scene writer 

Though summer is coming to a close, the start of school does not mark the season’s final hoorah! summer styles are still out and in full effect all around campus. i’ve tracked down a few notre dame students who are rocking some of summer’s biggest trends. here’s the breakdown on why these trends are so hot, why they work so well for your fellow irish classmates, and how to transform them so that they’ll work for you! 
AZTEC ACTION 
NAME: AnnA Lei YEAR: Junior DORM: pAngborn 

anna was easily noticeable as she strolled along north Quad. without seeing her, one might think that a mustard-colored knit hat and black combat boots would be more appropriate for a colder season. however, com­bined with her aztec-inspired racerback tank top and backpack to match, each piece came to­gether and worked well to cre­ate a standout bohemian look. anna’s high-waist jean shorts earn a gold star as far as the trends of summer 2012 go. high-waist shorts, skirts and pants have been taking popular clothing stores by storm since summer styles took center stage months ago. cultural prints also had their big debut only a few seasons ago, and this summer has in no way slowed the trend down. want to create your own “aztec action”-inspired look? stop by american apparel for a large selection of high-waist styles and urban outfitters for cultural prints. want a knit hat for summer? go for a color that’s a striking contrast to your own hair color. blondes, try a deep brown or forest green, and brunettes and dark-haired ladies, rip a page from the book of anna and go for a brighter yellow or blue! 

SPONSOR SPIRIT 
NAME: AdAm menA YEAR: Senior DORM: off CAmpuS 

For you boys out there who are lost in the fashion world and need a hint of summer inspiration, take a look at this outfit that adam has picked out. what makes this look great? well for starters, notre dame is sponsored by adidas, the popular sports brand, and so our fabulous student-athletes are con­stantly repping the brand almost as much as they do notre dame! being a student-athlete himself, adam has given a wonderfully classy spin to this sporty campus trend by choosing a simple black top with gold brand detailing. This sleek tee grabs our attention enough to allow for a nicely muted bottom-half of the look, as adam is wearing some classic khaki shorts and (hold up!) what appear to be matching adidas brand boat-sneakers! athletic wear is an obvi­ous summer trend for guys all over campus and beyond, but adam takes it to another level with this clean-cut and classy look. i bet this wouldn’t have been the first thing you pictured when you thought of a “jock look,” but adam’s giving you a good dose of jock-chic! want a “sponsor spirit”-inspired look? hit up, you guessed it, adidas for some upscale-sporty pieces. For a pair of sensible khaki shorts, try gap or hollister. also, don’t feel obligated to stick to adam’s color scheme! it’s awesome, yes, but branch out and try something else and it could turn out great! i wouldn’t mind seeing a similar look with a little more color on campus one of these days! 




DOWN­PLAYED PREP 
NAME: LogAn renwiCk YEAR: Junior DORM: knott 

There are numerous things that make logan’s look a great summer choice for many guys, despite its slightly preppy na­ture. The salmon-colored shorts and crisp white polo are indeed staples of prep style, but the casual adidas flip-flops veer off the traditional beaten path and give logan a more relaxed and down-to-earth look. classy black-rimmed glasses have grown to be one of the biggest eyewear trends of the year. This pair works particularly well with the other pieces of this ensemble, capping off the look with a very studious statement. without even uttering a word, logan shows us that he’s put together, practical and playing it cool. want a “downplayed prep”-inspired look? checkout american eagle for the polo and shorts, adidas or any sporting goods store for the sliders, and a local or online eye-wear retailer for a pair of black-rimmed glasses. 

CONTRAST QUEEN 
NAME: rACheL boggS YEAR: Senior DORM: off CAmpuS 

ladies and gentlemen, rachel boggs has arrived! bright pants are one of the summer’s hot­test trends, and in this pair of red skinny jeans, rachel makes it easy to see why! The look is given even more of a striking pop, as it is matched with a classy ivory button-down, and yet the brown rose-buckle belt gives it a hint of sensible neutrality. look closely at rachel’s shoes and you can see that she’s wearing a pair of aztec-print Toms, joining anna on the cultural print bandwagon! rachel’s mish-mash of earthy-toned bracelets also adds a nice and neutral touch to her standout look. nothing, however, can truly take away from the color in this getup, and if you can pull it off as well as rachel can, then there’s nothing wrong with that! To create your own “contrast Queen”-inspired look, try a store like J.crew or polyvore for brightly colored pants, and a Forever 21 or h&m for a great selection of sheer tops. For a mix of neutral bracelets, try some fun street vendors or an aldo near you. 

FLAWLESS FLORAL 
NAME: SAm VASSAneLLi YEAR: Senior DORM: pASqueriLLA weSt 

sam’s floral print dress is a clas­sic summer style that never seems to get old. Flowers are a clear in­dication that the spring and sum­mer seasons have arrived, and with this tropically-inspired color scheme, this dress is a perfect way for sam to truly capitalize on the sun and fun — the season’s fin­est characteristics! a simple pair of black spaghetti-strap sandals is a perfect way to offset this attention-grabbing garment. messy buns have also become an ever-growing trend in the world of hair and are great for an effortless-chic look. The culmination of these three pieces results in a look that says, “i’m doing the most without doing the most, and i look great doing it!” sam indeed looks great, and if you’re looking for a similar floral style then try an online shop like modcloth or lulu’s. For sandals like hers, try a dsw or nordstrom’s. 




summer may be winding down, but you still have time to end it right with some of these great summer trends! Try them out, and if you commit to the look, then you can’t lose! 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

California owns summer headlines 

Andrew Gastelum 
associate sports editor 
california knows how to party. 
and our beloved world of sports has shown up fashion­ably late. 
This summer, the center of the sporting world finally made the grueling cross-coun­try move to california, and it took a whole lot more than a u-haul and a “california or bust” sign to get it there. 
maybe it was tired of the muggy, dull east coast weath­er and summer boredom. or possibly it was just done with the overhyped buzz and over­reacting fan bases out east year after year. 
whether you don’t believe it or don’t want to believe it, it has already happened in every major sport. 
To kick off this lovely sum­mer, the los angeles Kings made one of the most re­markable runs in stanley cup playoffs history. leading up to the finals, the long-suffering Kings won 12 of their 14 play­off games against the no. 1, 2 and 3 seeds, respectively. all that was accomplished as the measly eight-seed who barely made the playoffs in the final weekend of the regular season. 
led by eventual conn smythe winner Jonathan Quick and his playoff-record .946 save percentage, los angeles got to see the stanley cup for the first time in 45 years, the trophy gleaming in the beau­tiful california sunshine as it strode down Figueroa street. so much for hockey only mat­tering where the ice won’t melt. 
also, i heard lebron won some sort of title this past sum­mer, and i’m not talking about a gold medal, either. but ev­eryone is buzzing about la-la land — and i definitely don’t mean the clippers. as far as lebron goes, we should almost feel sorry for him, as that was the shortest title celebration/ recognition in nba history, coming just after the longest in dallas, due to last season’s unnecessarily added lockout vacation time. 
Thanks to the addition of the dwight howard saga and steve nash, a combined 33 all-star game appearances now reside in the scariest starting-five in basketball. how orlando traded away one of the best players in the nba and in re­turn got back the fourth-best player in the four-team trade, i will never understand. but the lakers do always seem to come away with something just short of grand larceny in every trade they make, in the process stealing away all of the heat’s Thunder — get it? 
and if that wasn’t enough, the dog days of summer baseball carried on without the dread­ful humidity. while baseball’s big dogs remained in their cozy kennels at the trade dead­line — some injured (phillies), some whining (red sox) — the biggest moves were made out west. The dodgers reeled in a former clubhouse cancer and batting champ in hanley ramirez with great dividends along with shane victorino, the giants stole an all-star in hunter pence while losing an­other all-star to a fake website, and that other california team in anaheim (not los angeles) poached a former cy young-winner in Zack grienke. 
and somehow, oakland has even jumped into the news, whether it was a 19-5 record in July to spark the a’s to rel­evance in what movies pro­ducers are calling moneyball 2.0, or becoming the second bay area team to have a player suspended for performance-enhancing drugs in a week. meanwhile, all four are caught in thrilling division races heading into the homestretch of the season. 
and to put the bun on top of our delicious in-n-out burger, usc and heisman candidate matt barkley are unfortunate­ly drawing all the attention in college football with a no. 1 ranking in the preseason ap poll. 
oh, and even with the event in the united Kingdom, california was still at the cen­ter of the olympics, as 93 of the 256 medals dished out to american athletes are coming back to the golden state. 
west coast, best coast? looks like this isn’t just a vacation. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MLB 

Rockies shut out Mets to complete sweep 
Associated Press 

new yorK — Jim Tracy wants his colorado rockies pitchers to take it to the limit. 
and his 75-pitch boundary for starters seems to be work­ing of late. 
Tyler chatwood combined with four relievers in a 1-0 vic­tory over the new york mets on Thursday, completing a four-game sweep and giving the last-place rockies a five-game winning streak that tied their season high. 
“what we just did today is not easy to do. it’s not easy to do — sweep a four-game series on the road,” Tracy said. 
ever since the rockies went to a four-man rotation in June, their starters have been on tight limits. The colorado manager has kept the restraints in place even as the rockies have gone back to a quintet of starters. 
chatwood was pulled after allowing three hits over three innings. he needed 65 pitches to get nine outs. 
“i was getting close to the 75 pitches, so they made the deci­sion,” chatwood said. “you al­ways want to be economical. i think that’s your job as a start­ing pitcher, to go as deep as you can in a game. and i think that 75 pitches kind of makes you go right after the guy.” 
no rockies starter has reached 100 pitches since Jeremy guthrie threw 102 against oakland on June 12, according to sTaTs llc. 
Forget about complete games 
— they’ve gone the way of the dodo bird in colorado. The rockies haven’t had one since Jhoulys chacin in a 2-1 loss at 

FOR RENT 

purdue or Stanford game rental. great location - half block from eddy Street Commons. Sleeps 10+. email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for photos/ additional info. 
PERSONAL 

unpLAnned pregnAnCY? don’t go it alone. notre dame has many resources in place to assist you. if you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann whitall at 1-0084 or karen kennedy at 1-5550. for more information, visit nd’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“waiting in the weeds” by the eagles it’s comin’ on the end of August, Another summer’s promise almost gone And though i heard some wise man say that every dog will have his day he never mentioned that these dog days get so long. 
i don’t know when i realized the dream was over well, there was no particular hour, no given day You know, it didn’t go down in flame there was no final scene, no frozen frame i just watched it slowly fade away. 
And i’ve been waiting in the weeds waiting for my time to come around again and hope is floating on the breeze Carrying my soul high up above the ground and i’ve been keepin’ to myself knowin’ that the seasons are slowly changing even though you’re with somebody else he’ll never love you like i do. i’ve been biding time with the crows 


cincinnati on aug. 11 last year. Tracy still was raving about chacin’s six-inning, 73-pitch effort in Tuesday’s 6-2 victory. 
“Fifty-one of the 73 were strikes,” he said. “in my opin­ion, that’s quality major league pitching. when you throw 80 pitches or you throw 75 pitches in three innings, or 78 pitches in three innings, and some­one’s going to sit here from what i’ve experienced in over 36 years and tell me that that’s quality major league pitching, i’ll strongly disagree with who­ever is uttering it to me. i want our guys to understand what quality major league pitching is all about.” 
on the other side, new york’s collin mchugh pitched two-hit ball over seven scoreless in­nings in a dazzling big league debut. after he left, the rockies quickly went ahead against bobby parnell (2-3) as Jordany valdespin misplayed Tyler colvin’s leadoff drive in the eighth into a game-changing triple. 
colvin hit parnell’s second pitch to straightaway center, where the rookie valdespin took two steps in, then realized he had misjudged the drive. he backpedaled a half-dozen steps and tried for a leaping, backhand grab, but the ball sailed over his glove. 
“i knew i hit it well, and i knew it had pretty good back­spin on it,” colvin said. “it was going to be decided on how he read it, and he took a couple steps in. 
chris nelson fouled off a pair of 0-2 pitches, then singled to center past the drawn-in infield. 
brooklyn native adam ottovino and rex brothers (8­
2) followed chatwood with two innings each, and willie harris escaped a runner-on-second situation in the eighth. 

the observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the notre dame office, 024 South dining hall. deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. the charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. the observer reserves the right to edit 
and sparrows while peacocks prance and strut upon the stage if finding love is just a dance proximity and chance You will excuse me if i skip the masquerade. 
And i’ve been waiting in the weeds waiting for the dust to settle down along the back roads running through the fields Lying on the outskirts of this lonesome town And i imagine sunlight in your hair You’re at the county fair. 
You’re holding hands and laugh­ing And now the ferris wheel has stopped You’re swinging on the top Suspended there with him. 
And he’s the darling of the chic the flavor of the week is melting down your pretty summer dress .baby, what a mess you’re makingi’ve been stum­bling through some dark places now i’m following the plow i know i’ve fallen out of your good graces it’s alright now. 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2012 | The observer 

MLB 

McHugh a rare bright spot for struggling Mets 
struck out nine and walked one games for the first time since a 
Associated Press 

in seven shutout innings. it wasn’t streak of seven in a row from sept. 
new yorK  — collin mchugh enough, and the colorado rockies 17-21, 1982, according to sTaTs 
walked off the mound toward the completed their second straight llc. 
dugout after the seventh and final four-game sweep at new york with collins admitted he’s turned his 
inning of his first major league ap-a 1-0 victory Thursday as Jordany attention to 2013. 
pearance, tried to remain stone-valdespin misplayed Tyler colvin’s “at this stage of the season, 
faced and raised his right hand to leadoff drive in the eighth into a you’ve got to start looking to next 
touch his cap for the 13 family and game-changing triple. year, you’ve got to start look-
friends watching from the stands. “we can’t execute. it just seems ing at the big picture,” he said, “it was still a tight game so i like we can’t execute anything we pleased with some of his young 
don’t want to do anything crazy,” try,” manager Terry collins said. pitchers such as matt harvey and 
he said. new york was 0 for 10 with run-mchugh. “you look for sept. 1 now mchugh had a dazzling debut ners in scoring position in the to say who’s going to be the next 
on yet another dismal day for the game and 8 for 43 (.186) in the se-guy that’s going to whet our taste 
new york mets. The 25-year-old ries. The mets have been held to buds?” 
right-hander allowed two hits, two runs or fewer for six straight new york is 11-28 since the all-paid adverTisemenT star break, which includes a 2-14 mark at citi Field, and is 11 games under .500 for the first time since finishing 70-92 in 2009. 
“it’s a nightmare for everybody 
in this clubhouse,” catcher Josh 
Thole said. 
“when it happens once, oK. when it happens again, all right guys, you’ve got to move on. but three nights in a row. and then four. and then it keeps mounting up. you can only say we’ve got to put this behind us so many times,” he said. 
Taking the rotation slot of in­jured ace Johan santana, mchugh threw 63 of 100 pitches for strikes. after charlie blackmon’s oppo­site-field double to left leading off the game, mchugh retired 20 of 22 batters around dJ lemahieu’s double starting the third and carlos gonzalez’s two-out walk in the fourth. 



mchugh seems like an inter­esting type. his Twitter account reads “Freelance meteorologist & professional baseball player.” 
“it’s a little joke,” he said. “i can predict the weather — but i do it for a nominal fee.” 
he became the sixth mets starter to pitch shutout ball in his debut, according to sTaTs, join­ing dick rusteck (1966), Tim leary (1981), masato yoshii (1998), Tyler yates (2004) and matt harvey (July 26 at arizona). only rusteck pitched longer, throwing a four-hitter against cincinnati. 
“before the game they said he was dillon gee, and that’s exactly what i saw,” Thole said. “pounded the strike zone.” 
using a big, slow curveball and a fastball from 86-93 mph, mchugh worked out of trouble af­ter the double by blackmon, who also played high school ball in the atlanta area. sacrificed to third, blackmon was stranded when mchugh threw a called third strike past Jordan pacheco and fanned carlos gonzalez. 
“had tremendous poise,” rockies manager Jim Tracy said. “what else can you ask?” 
mchugh felt well prepared. 
“The anticipation is the hard­est part, for sure,” he said. “it was trying to contain the nerves. a lot of people gave some really good advice and said you’re going to be nervous. it’s a fact. Just con­tain those and go out and do your thing.” 
colorado, which tied a sea­son high with its fifth straight win, broke through quickly after mchugh’s departure. 
colvin hit the second pitch from bobby parnell (2-3) to straight­away center, where the rookie valdespin took two steps in, then realized he had misjudged the drive. he backpedaled a half-doz­en steps and jumped for a back­hand grab, but the ball sailed over his glove. 
“The ball jumped off the bat,” valdespin said. 
he’s been a middle infielder for most of his career. 
“one of the things you’ve got to be careful of is putting guys out of position in the big leagues, be­cause eventually the ball will find them ,” collins said. “when you’re in a situation like we are, it’s go­ing to happen at the wrong time, which it has.” 
chris nelson fouled off a pair of 0-2 pitches, then singled to center past the drawn-in infield. 
“i can’t tell you how proud i am of this group,” Tracy said. “said that many times, it doesn’t take a four-game sweep to say it.” 
rex brothers (8-2) pitched two innings for the win. matt belisle, colorado’s fifth pitcher, got his first save since June 22, 2010, against boston following some ninth-inning drama. pinch-hitter Justin Turner singled leading off and was sacrificed to second by valdespin. daniel murphy flied to center and david wright flied to right. 

belles seek ncaa berth and beyond 
By ANDREW CARDOZA 
sports writer 
as the school year is starting up, there are a lot of new expectations for the saint mary’s golf team. 
big expectations are the norm for the belles, having finished third in the miaa in the fall portion of last season. and saint mary’s came out on a mission in the spring season. as a result, the team’s scores dropped as the spring moved along, and it finished the year by earning their seventh berth in the ncaa division iii championships. 
belles coach mark hamilton said the team has even bigger goals they would like to achieve. 
“our goal is to start the fall season by winning the conference cham­pionship, perform well in the two big tournaments, the anderson invitational and o’brien national invitational and to be ranked highly as possible,” hamilton said. 
The belles’ roster will include sev­en new athletes, five first years and two transfer students. hamilton is looking to the newcomers to have a major impact on the team and the outcome of the meets. 
“The first-year students played quite well in the qualifying week,” hamilton said. “i saw a lot of good things that will help us to be a better team. with hard work and practice, they can really challenge the upper­classmen and make this team have more depth.” 
one of the returning golfers for the belles is junior doyle o’brien. she helped lead the team to a very promising campaign last year, as well as leading them to the ncaa tournament. o’brien set school records for the lowest individual round — shooting a 72 — and low­est four-day score (307) at the ncaa championships, while tying for sixth place individually. The in­coming junior received honorable mention all-american accolades for her efforts. 
“if our team can have a lower scoring average from top to bot­tom and everyone competes to the way they practice, we can be a very tough team to beat down the stretch,” hamilton said. 
The belles will have the oppor­tunity to play in six meets this fall, including two tournaments, which involve competing against three of the top-25 teams in the country in the preseason polls. 
The belles will compete at the anderson invitational in anderson, ind., on sept. 1 and 2. 
Contact  Andrew Cardoza at acardoza@nd.edu 


Waldrum 
conTinued From page 16 
do is spend practice time on [converting opportuni­ties], much like a basketball player in a shooting slump,” waldrum said. “we may move some players around and be a little more mobile in 
“The excitement of opening at home always gives the team new life, and we need to get the word out there and build student support. Both games this weekend will present challenges, and it will be an important weekend for our team.” 
Randy Waldrum 
Irish coach 
our positions, since we didn’t create enough opportunities with our forwards. all the pieces need to be put togeth­er, but i like the chemistry our players have had so far.” 
Team chemistry will be 
very important for an irish squad consisting largely of underclassmen. notre dame started seven freshmen in the season opener, includ­ing goalkeeper elyse hight and the defensive trio of stephanie campo, brittany von rueden and Katie naughton. 
The irish will look for con­tinued development from their highly-heralded fresh­man class when they take on Tulsa (1-0), a team notre dame and waldrum are very familiar with. The irish de­feated the golden hurricane 7-1 last year at alumni stadium, and waldrum served as the head coach of both the Tulsa men’s and women’s teams from 1989 to 1994, recording a 66-33-6 re­cord with the men and a 61­36-9 record with the women. given the history between the programs, waldrum said he expects the matchup with the golden hurricane to be a tough road test for the irish. 
“Tulsa will be a challenge for us since they are very good at home, and there will be some added focus from their coaching staff, since i used to coach there,” waldrum said. “i like how we match up, and i see it as one more op­portunity to handle pressure and gain experience.” 
after traveling to oklahoma, notre dame will return for its home opener against east carolina (1-1), a program the irish never have faced. The owner of an 11-8-1 record last season, east carolina lost its sea­son opener 2-1 in overtime to campbell last weekend, but rebounded to defeat old dominion 1-0 on wednesday. The pirates return 20 letter winners from last season, including all-conference ju­nior goalkeeper christiane cordero and all-confer­ence senior defender hali oughton. 
with a tough slate of two games in three days, waldrum emphasized the benefit a strong fan turnout against east carolina would provide for the team. 
“The excitement of open­ing at home always gives the team new life, and we need to get the word out there and build student support,” waldrum said. “both games this weekend will present challenges, and it will be an important weekend for our team.” 
The irish face Tulsa at 8:30 
p.m. on Friday in Tulsa, okla. and battle east carolina at 1 p.m. on sunday at alumni stadium. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 


paid adverTisemenT 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2012 | The observer 
ND VOLLEYBALL 


Irish prepared for matchup with nation’s best 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 
when the irish first scheduled a trip to lincoln, neb., for a pre­season round-robin with ucla, saint louis and nebraska, they figured they were getting a good chance to open play against three very respectable oppo­nents. months later, however, the three-game slate has turned into a veritable gauntlet, featur­ing two of the top four teams in the country with the no. 1 bruins and the no. 4 cornhuskers. 
“There’s no time like the be­ginning of the year to go against the top team in the country,” irish coach debbie brown said of her team taking on ucla. “we will immediately know how good we are.” 
The bruins return much of the squad that defeated illinois last december to claim the 2011 national championship, and the team’s preseason prospectus has been equally auspicious. a fa­vorite to repeat as pac-12 cham­pions, ucla garnered 54 of 60 first-place votes in the avca coaches’ poll released aug. 13. 
“it’s funny, because all we know of these teams we’re play­ing is what they had last year, and that’s all that they know of us,” brown said. “we know that the majority of last year’s team is back for ucla, but compared to where we were last year, we ourselves are much more advanced.” 
The irish return all but two starters from the team that fell to cincinnati in the big east final last year, but will nevertheless have to break in both new faces in new places and familiar ones in unfamiliar spots. 
The task of replacing gradu­ated four-year libero starter Frenchie silva will fall to incom­ing freshman Taylor morey, while sophomore Toni alugbue will shift to the outside from her previous position at middle blocker to fill the spot of gradu­ated outside hitter Kristen dealy. morey, a 5-foot-6 indiana native, has impressed brown enough to win the starting job in fall practice, despite her collegiate inexperience. 
“we feel very comfortable with Taylor there and with Toni mov­ing to a more attacking position,” brown said. “They put us in a very good position to do well this weekend.” 
if there’s a chance for a let­down after taking on ucla, the irish will need to guard against it in matchups against saint louis and nebraska on saturday and sunday, respectively. and if it’s possible for the fourth-best team in the country to be over­shadowed, it’s this weekend with the cornhuskers. a team that won two games in the ncaa 



paid adverTisemenT 
tournament and returns much of its squad will undoubtedly play second-fiddle to the bruins, but brown said her team is focused equally on both opponents. 
“against both these teams, and saint louis, we’re going in to compete hard on every point and come back with wins,” brown said. “every match the goal is to win. we’re not going just hoping to be respectable.” 
The irish open their sea­son against ucla on Friday in lincoln, neb. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Irish 
conTinued From page 16 
151 touchdown passes. he has not, however, thrown a pass in a collegiate game. 
“we’ve prepared the offense for a first-year starter,” Kelly said. “he’s got four seasons of com­petition remaining. anytime you’re starting someone with four seasons of competition re­maining, you know he’s going to learn more, he’s going to experi­ence more as he plays. we have to make sure we put him in good 
“Anytime you’re starting someone with four seasons of competition remaining, you know he’s going to learn more, he’s going to experience more as he plays. We have to make sure we put him in good positions” 
Brian Kelly 
Irish coach 
positions. 
“The style of offense we see will be the one he’s most comfortable running. maybe not as fast of a tempo, but we’re utilizing multi­ple personnel groupings as a form of attacking the defense. we’re leaning towards the multiple per­sonnel groupings with everett.” 
while golson’s inexperience poses a challenge, Kelly said he was impressed with his other qualities. 
“his poise was really outstand­ing, [he has] great vision down the field. Those things are really positive, even if you don’t have a lot of experience,” Kelly said. 
last Thursday, Kelly said golson had only thrown one interception out of 126 pass at­tempts during training camp. That number has now risen to three, but Kelly said he is not con­cerned with turnovers. 
“if he stays focused, he’s not 
Golson 
conTinued From page 16 
anxiety is only natural in his situation, but it’s important Kelly doesn’t add additional stress. 
allowing golson to show his inexperience and flaws in 2012 will pay off down the road. This team isn’t ready to earn a bowl championship series berth, but 2013 should be a different story. entering this brutal schedule with a long-term approach doesn’t mean it has to compro­mise 2012. 
There’s only one way golson can gain experience, and it’s by throwing him straight into the fire. 
Kelly said he anticipates golson will play every snap of the opener, rather than shut­tling he and hendrix in and out every series, which is the right 
going to be that guy that turns the football over,” Kelly said. Kelly said the reps would be split 70-30 be­

tween  golson  and  hendrix.  
Russell,  Neal  named  
starters  

golson wasn’t the only first-time starter Kelly announced Thursday. 
Freshman cornerback Keivarae russell will fill the first-team void left by junior lo wood, who was lost for the sea­son with a ruptured achilles tendon monday during prac­tice. wood underwent success­ful surgery wednesday. 
“There’s always a couple of kids that just have it,” Kelly said of russell. “he’s so confident in his ability. he’s extremely ath­letic. he’s picked it up so quickly. 
“it was a comfortable tran­sition for him and he’s a re­ally smart kid. all those things pointed in his favor.” 
russell — recruited out of everett, wash., as an athlete 
— will start alongside junior bennett Jackson, a converted receiver. Kelly said the distinc­tions between the two corner­back positions (boundary and field) will be blurred because of the inexperience. 
“i think we’re going to have to have some flexibility there de­pending on who we’re playing, what the circumstances are,” Kelly said. “if [usc receiver] robert woods is into the bound­ary, bennett Jackson will be into the boundary.” 
Freshman receiver davonte’ neal, meanwhile, will return punts for the irish, Kelly said. 

last season, notre dame re­turned just 13 punts for 48 yards 
— with 41 yards coming from for­mer irish receiver michael Floyd’s return in the 18-14 champs sports bowl loss to Florida state in december. 
sophomore running back george atkinson will maintain his kickoff return duties after re­turning two kicks for touchdowns last year. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 



move. For golson — and the entire offense — to find a groove and develop consistency, he needs to experience the lead­ership of leading an offense, as well as its struggles and triumphs. 
while Kelly is not — and should not be — on the hot seat entering his third season, the success of his tenure rides largely on quarterback play. rees reached his ceiling as a freshman and floundered as a sophomore, but Kelly finally has a quarterback that can effec­tively run his system. 
now, he just needs to take off the training wheels and let golson grow. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Irish 
conTinued From page 16 

The most important thing [against duke] is finding out about [us.]” 
captain and senior mid­fielder dillon powers echoed his coach’s sentiments, saying a difficult opening-game op­ponent will prove beneficial. 
“it is a good thing, in that you have to be ready right away,” powers said. “also, if you do get a big win to open your sea­son, that can be a great thing.” 
Though they may not make will end up contributing this year.” 
powers is also hoping to see some freshmen on the pitch this season. 
“i’m very happy with them, we’re excited to have such a tal­ented class,” he said. “we really try to integrate them as much as possible, and hopeful they can contribute for us.” 
notre dame kicks off against the blue devils on saturday at 
7:30 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
an appearance saturday, a few irish freshmen will likely end up playing this season, ac­cording to clark. he said he was pleased with what he saw from the freshmen during the preseason. 
“it’s always hard for a fall sport, especially when you only get two-and-a-half weeks of a preseason,” clark said. “it’s hard for freshmen to come in and make an impact. There are always a couple that work their way into the squad. i was very pleased with all six of the fresh­men, and i imagine two to three 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2012 | The observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

YOUR COMIC HERE | SUDOKU | The mepham group 

YOUR COMIC HERE | 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: scott caan, 36; Jay mohr, 42; shelley long, 63; barbara eden, 78. 
Happy Birthday: don’t give in to demands, but do listen to what others say. use your intuition to come up with the most suitable choices and you will have no regrets. being true to you and what you want to accomplish is most important. your numbers are 10, 14, 19, 28, 31, 37, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): get ready to make changes that will help you out financially and emotionally. Take a good look at the relationships you have with both business and personal acquaintances and do what you can to make improvements. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t make a move because someone else does. you have to do what’s best for you if you are going to excel. being a follower will not get you what you want in the end. do business via the phone or internet. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): discuss your plans and forge ahead. you may not get everyone’s blessings, but you will feel at peace once your plans are out in the open. a move or a change in the way you live will help you feel good about your accomplishments. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): concentrate on what’s ahead, not on what has already taken place. put your heart into whatever you do, and take time to enjoy the company of the people you enjoy being with most. a trip or new experience will help you rejuvenate. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep moving if you want to get everything on your to-do list finished. a relationship you have with someone will change if one of you is secretive. you will learn quickly; focus on mastering a new skill to add to your resume. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): consider your motives before you get entangled in something for the wrong reason. you are best to follow your heart, not what you think will bring you the highest return. happiness will be based on self-satisfac­tion. love is highlighted.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): open up a dialogue with people you feel have some­thing to teach you. don’t let a relationship get you down or cause you to miss something you want to attend or do. you can resolve pending problems if you voice your concerns. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you aren’t likely to win a debate by talking. showing what you can do will be far more effective. an interesting concept you come across can be easily manipulated to fit something you want to pursue. love is in the stars. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):Keep things out in the open. secrets will lead to suspicion. make the alterations at home that will make your life better. a change of heart may end up costing you financially or emotionally. choose your battles and your friendships wisely.   


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): check out what everyone else is doing, and you’ll find a perfect place to put your skills to work. what you contribute will be well-received and put you in the running for advancement. a partnership will enhance your future prospects. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): winning and controlling are not the same things. make sure that everyone, including you, has the freedom to express individuali­ty in whatever way possible. you will bring out the best in everyone and surpass your dreams, hopes and wishes. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): you’ll be torn between what you should do and what you want to do. don’t miss out; get organized, call in favors and move quickly in order to take care of your responsibilities and enjoy fulfilling your desires. 


Birthday Baby: you are intense, determined and observant. you work hard and play hard. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

FOOTBALL 

Golson chosen as starting quarterback 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
while he stood at the podi­um in the isban auditorium on Thursday evening, sophomore quarterback everett golson was trending on Twitter — and for good reason. 
he was now the starting quar­terback at notre dame. 
after a four-man quarterback race for the second straight sea­son, irish coach brian Kelly an­nounced golson beat junior quarterback andrew hendrix and freshman gunner Kiel for the starting nod against navy on sept. 1 in dublin. Junior Tommy rees will serve a one-game sus­pension for the opener stemming from a may arrest. 
“[everett] won the job,” Kelly said. “andrew did a great job, made great improvements, really pleased with the progress of both those young men. it was good to see. it was a tough decision, but everett clearly won the starting job and he’ll be the starter against navy.” 
The six-foot signal caller did not see playing time a year ago after enrolling early in the spring of 2011. golson did, however, travel with the team last season, when the irish used three different quarterbacks. 


in the season opener last sea­son against south Florida, Kelly pulled then-starter and former irish quarterback dayne crist at halftime after three first-half turnovers and a 16-0 deficit and replaced him with rees. Kelly said golson is a player to build around. 
“i don’t think you go into a 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

irish seek first road win at oklahoma 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
notre dame finds itself winless heading into the second game of the season, a position the irish have not been in since the last cen­tury. The young irish squad will look to rebound and place its first tally in the win column when it travels to oklahoma to take on Tulsa on Friday night, returning home to battle east carolina on sunday afternoon at alumni stadium. 
The irish (0-1) dropped their season opener for the first time since 1999 last weekend, losing 1-0 to wisconsin (2-0). notre dame bested the badgers in nearly every statistical cat­egory, finishing with more shots on goal, saves and corners, but could not close the game out, giving up the game’s lone goal in the 84th minute. 
irish coach randy waldrum said the season opener heightened the need for his team to impose its style on the game, and il­lustrated how important finishing games will be this season. 

“we got too caught up in their style, which was a more physical game, instead of imposing our possession-oriented game,” waldrum said. “we also have to learn how to finish games out and not give up late goals. i think we can win a lot of games, but with our tough sched­ule, i think we’ll be in sever­al close games that won’t be decided until the end.” 
another point of empha­sis for notre dame will be converting opportunities on the offensive end. The irish had a number of opportuni­ties to score in their season opener, including five shots on goal in the first half, but could not find the inside of the net. waldrum said the irish would look to address this problem through prac­tice and some minor on-field changes. 
“The only thing you can 
see waldrum PAGE 12 
season saying, ‘i want to make a change at halftime.’ you want to be able to stick with a guy and build continuity, especially with a guy who’s got four seasons of competition [left]. you want to build on that,” Kelly said. 
The myrtle beach, s.c., na­tive started 49 games in high school, racking up 44 wins and 
see irish PAGE 14 
Young QB must grow into job 

Andrew Owens 
assistant managing editor 
a new year, a new quarter­back at notre dame. 
only this year, the quarter­back position will be managed differently. it needs to be. 
if irish coach brian Kelly is going to right the notre dame ship, he needs to show the same patience in sophomore quarterback everett golson that he undoubtedly desires from the irish faithful in year three on the job. 
if Kelly pulls the plug on the golson experiment as quickly as he did with dayne crist last year, this season will feel as long and bleak as a south bend winter. 
Kelly praised golson’s grasp of the art of the position in the spring, but said he was a “heart attack” due to his struggles with learning the science of being a quarterback. it was golson’s improvement in that department that ultimately al­lowed him to leapfrog junior andrew hendrix and win the starting job. Kelly said on aug. 16 that golson had thrown just one interception in 126 attempts in fall camp to that point. 
not bad for a “heart attack.” 
golson will afford the offense some much-needed flair in the absence of michael Floyd. while Tyler eifert is more than capable of handling much of the offensive load, golson’s ability to improvise will facilitate the growth and cover up some of the unit’s growing pains. 
and there will be growing pains. 
regardless of which quarter­back takes the lion’s share of the snaps this season (includ­ing junior Tommy rees, who is suspended for the opener), ups and downs are guaranteed. but for golson to succeed, he can’t have the mindset that each snap could be his last. 
“i think there’s always going to be anxiety with this being my first college game,” golson said. “i’m always going to be anxious.” 
see golson PAGE 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Blue Devils to visit Irish 
By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 

after concluding exhibition play monday, the irish will open the regular season with a home showdown against duke on saturday. 
ranked no. 21 in the soccer america preseason poll, duke brings a squad sporting just one senior to alumni stadium. however, irish coach bobby clark said the age difference between the two teams likely will not matter too greatly. 
“age does not affect it too much,” he said. “i’m sure [duke] has a reasonable amount of experience. i don’t think it’s how old you are that counts, it’s how good you are. i don’t put too much thought into age. we’ll see after the game if [inexperience] really affected [duke] or not.” 
luckily for the blue devils, the lone senior on their ros­ter is 2011 all-acc first team goalkeeper James belshaw. clark said his coaches know how talented belshaw is. but if the irish execute their game plan, he said they should have no trouble creating scoring opportunities. 

“we’ve got pretty good re­ports about their goalkeeper, he’s got pretty good experi­ence,” clark said. “i don’t want to focus too much on them. we’ve got to really concentrate on what we do and how we play how. can we execute our game plan? can we create chances? i don’t care what goalkeeper it is if we get good chances.” 
regardless of the outcome, duke will present a significant test to begin the season. clark said the matchup with blue devils mirrors the remaining regular season schedule, and he prefers such a layout. 
“if you look at our schedule, we don’t have one easy game,” he said. “with 17 regular sea­son games, i don’t believe in wasting one with what we think would be an easy game. 
see clarK PAGE 14 






