

Observer appoints top editor 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer General Board elected Sports Editor Allan Jo­seph as the 2012-13 Editor-in-Chief on Sunday. 
Joseph, a junior Economics and Arts and Letters Prepro­fessional double major, is a na­tive of Dublin, Ohio. 
A resident of Saint Edward’s Hall, Joseph has led sev­eral sports beats, in­cluding foot­ball, hockey, women’s soccer and men’s la­crosse. 
“I’m thrilled, hon­ored and humbled by this op­portunity to lead The Observ­er,” Joseph said. “I know the experience will have as many challenges as opportunities, but I’m excited to tackle those challenges with the dedicated, talented staff we have.” 
Joseph became Sports Editor in the spring of 2011 and led coverage of Irish hockey’s trip to the 2011 Frozen Four and, as a beat writer, the 2010 women’s soccer National Championship. 

see EDITOR/page 4 



ND polices online activity 
University receives complaints, investigates illegal downloading 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
During his freshman year, senior James Hesburgh said he thought he was invincible when it came to downloading music and movies illegally off the Internet until he was caught. 
“Anyone who illegally downloads music online al­ways thinks about getting caught, somehow … but you never know anyone who has personally been caught,” he said. “You never really think it will happen to you.” 
Though Hesburgh was cited for illegal online activity in October 2008, he did not re­ceive notice of his infraction until the following July. He received an email from the Of­fice of Residence Life & Hous­ing saying he was in violation of du Lac, the Notre Dame stu­dent handbook. 
“They told me if they caught me again, they would turn me over to the RIAA (Recording Industry Association of Amer­ica).” 
Hesburgh’s violation was one of hundreds of complaints the Office of Information Tech­nologies (OIT) receives every year from various copyright holders. In a statement to The Observer, OIT said complaints have been on the rise. 
“The number of complaints received each year varies at the discretion of the copyright owners … Just [this] January we’ve received over 200 com­plaints. In 2011 it was closer to 3800; in 2010 it was around 
850. The copyright owners have also changed their tac­tics and priorities over the years.” 

see DOWNLOADS/page 4 



Student researches autism 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention es­timates that autism affects one in every 110 Ameri­can-born children. Senior Nicole Shea hopes through her research, she will be able to enhance the lives of those affected both so­cially and academically. 
“I am investigating how parental autonomy support plays out in the life of chil­dren with autism,” Shea said. “My thesis is looking to see if parental autonomy support is related to aca­demic and social outcomes for children with autism spectrum disorders.” 
Shea said her interest in the subject sparked dur­ing her sophomore year when she began working in the Laboratory for Un­derstanding Neurodevel­opment (F.U.N. Lab), which is directed by Dr. Joshua Diehl, assistant profes­sor of Psychology at Notre Dame. 
“During my junior year I took a class called ‘Mo­tivation and Learning’ un­

see AUTISM/page 4 



University hosts conference on gender and foodways 
By ANNA BOARINI food at levels and ways across News Writer the board … Newt Gingrich is [attacking] Obama as the food Food and gender everywhere, stamp president … Michelle but never a bite to link … or is Obama is launching anti-obesity there? campaigns [and] everyone is ex-
The conference, “Food Net-cessively watching the Food Net­works: Gender and Foodways,” work. There is just so much stuff hosted by the right now.” Notre Dame 
In addition, the conference al­gender stud-
lowed Wojcik to accomplish one ies program, 
of her goals for the Gender Stud-explored the 
ies Program. link between 
“One of my projects running food and 
gender studies is to … make gender this 
gender studies more truly gen-past week­
der studies and not women’s end. 
studies,” she said. “Internally, 

P a m e l a I’ve been trying to work on it to Betsy Cornwell, a Masters of of the other MFA students ever that is present in their work at Wojcik, di-bring in more issues of mascu-Fine Arts (MFA) student in cre-wrote about food and gender,” the conference. rector of the Gender Studies linity, queerness, trying to get ative writing, served as the chair she said. “And [those themes are] “[Our disciplines are] all re-Program, said the conference al-more departments involved and of the panel, “Appetite: Creative pretty much all I write about.” ally, really different, so it was a lowed for a dialogue that focused to emphasize the interdisciplin-Writers on Food, Gender and Cornwell and two other MFA great sample,” Cornwell said. on a popular topic. ary qualities of gender studies.” Self.” students, Seth Oelbaum and Kimberly Roland, a double 
“I started thinking about She said if food and gender “I actually heard about the Carina Finn, each read some of major in Political Science and food just because it is clearly a could be combined, it would pro-conference because I was tak-their work and hosted a round-Humanistic Studies at Saint Hu­dominant topic in the culture,” duce an interesting interdisci-ing a class with Pam Wojcik, and table discussion about the she said. “We’re talking about plinary dialogue. she asked me one day if [I] or any themes of food, gender and self see FOOD/page 4 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Gong Fu club grows page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u In Good Company: Getting ready for the career fair page 10 u Men’s basketball beats UConn page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD ENHANCE THE NOTRE DAME EXPERIENCE? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Caitlin Housley Matthew Anna Boarini DeFranks Christian Myers Victoria Jacobsen Graphics Jonathan Warren Dan Azic Scene Viewpoint Maria Fernandez Meghan Photo Thomassen Pat Coveney  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 44 LOW 40 


Tori Creighton  Ana Christian  Julie Koh  Saman Herath  Sarah McGough  Jenna Gill-Wiehl  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Pasquerilla West  Lewis  Pasquerilla West  Siegfried  Cavanaugh  Cavanaugh  
“A new location,  “I think ND is  “More sunshine.”  “More  “A Defense  “More things  
like Florida, my  awesome the  diversitaaay!”  Against the Dark  to do in South  
home state.”  way it is.”  Arts class.”  Bend.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Ancient coin may have been used in Roman brothels 
LONDON — The Museum of London is displaying a coin found by the River Thames that may have been used nearly 2,000 years ago as a “brothel to­ken” in Roman London. 
The bronze coin shows a man and woman in an inti­mate embrace. 
Senior curator Caroline McDonald said Thursday it is impossible to determine precisely what the coin was used for. 
She says it is probable brothels existed in London when the coin was in circu­lation after the Roman in­vasion of Britain in the 1st Century A.D. 
Experts believe the coin was concealed by mud along the river banks for some 2,000 years before it was discovered recently by a man with a metal detec­tor looking for objects near Putney Bridge. 
New Mexico man rescued from mud after three days 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — A homeless man who was stuck in thick mud near the Rio Grande river in Al­buquerque for three days was rescued Saturday after some high school students on a field trip heard him yelling for help, authorities said. 
However, the man’s new­found freedom wasn’t go­ing to last. Police said he was wanted on a felony warrant, and they planned to arrest him after he was treated at a local hospital. 
A group of La Cueva High School students and their biology teacher heard the man yelling Saturday morning from a marshy wetlands area in the Ox­bow Open Space Preserve, the Albuquerque Fire De­partment and police offi­cials said. 
The students were in the area — about two miles north of Interstate 40 in Albuquerque — doing a school project. They called authorities and told them that the man said he’d been stuck in the river for three days and could not move, according to a police re­port. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The Department of Applied and Computational Mathe­matics and Statistics is host­ing the colloquium, “Statisti­cal Inference of Sparse Ising Models, with Applications to HIV Mutation Data,” today from 4 to 5 p.m. in Room 127 of the Hayes-Healy Center. 
The lecture, “An Em­powerment Model for Sus­tainable Residential Re­construction in Léogâne, Haiti, after the January 2010 Earthquake,” will be given in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center for Inter­national Studies from  12:30 to 2 p.m. tomorrow. The Kel­logg Institute for Internation­al Studies is sponsoring the lecture, which is free and open to the public. 
The lector workshop for the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, which was originally scheduled for Jan. 24, will now be held tomorrow from 7 to 8 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Eucharistic minister workshop for the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, which was originally scheduled for Jan. 24, will now be held tomor­row from 8 to 9 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Career Center will hold a Career Technology Night for graduate students in the Monogram Room of the Joyce Center from 7 to 9 
p.m. tomorrow. 
Tomorrow, from 8:30 to 
9:45 p.m., Campus Minis­try will host Four:7 Catholic Fellowship in the Cavanaugh Hall chapel. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 









HIGH 50 LOW 37 
HIGH 42 LOW 34 

HIGH 41 LOW 26 
HIGH 35 LOW 28 





Gong Fu club aims to increase interest in martial arts 
that comes with Gong Fu, and a responsibility that comes with it,” he said. “The Gong Fu that we practice is valid for self defense, and when I train people, I train them to think about it as a defensive tool only.  It’s not for offensive purposes.  I try my best to get them thinking about avoid­ing trouble rather than seek­ing it.  That sort of training helps people to start thinking about their words and actions to avoid an engagement.” 
Blair said he also wants the club to serve as a social outlet for his students, so the club will launch a Kung Fu Movie Night series in February.
 “This will be a periodic screening of some of the best Kung Fu movies of the past 20 years,” he said. 
For example, Blair plans to screen “Ip Man” and “The Ma­trix” and “Kung Fu Panda,” as well as more obscure mov­ies, like “Twin Warriors” or “Kung Fu Hustle.” 
“This is an opportunity to involve more people in the club, to have [a] more social opportunity for members to interact apart from practice and training and to promote the appreciation of Kung Fu on campus,” Blair said. 
In addition, Blair hopes the club can give back to the com­munity that has welcomed it. 
“We are going to the Health-win Nursing Home to per­form a demonstration there with some martial arts tech-niques,” Blair said. “We’re also going to be going there on a regular basis to help with their Saturday Bingo sessions.” 

Students currently in the group said they have been satisfied with the activities of the club thus far. 
“I have always been inter­ested in studying Gong Fu, and this group has finally given me that opportunity,” Chad Stevenson, a gradu­ate student majoring in elec­trical engineering, said.  “I knew Erik [before joining the group], and his workouts em­phasize the fundamentals of applicable self-defense.” 
Blair said the group will meet regularly throughout the week so group members can build on the skills devel­oped from previous meetings. 
“The group will meet on Mondays, Fridays and Satur­days, with the two sessions later in the week scheduled so that students can easily fit our group into their busy schedules,” Blair said. 
Above all, Blair said he wants students to realize no matter what shape they are in, most people can partici­pate in martial arts. 
“Everyone, regardless of ability, is welcome to attend our meetings and experi­ence a Gong Fu workout,” he said. “It’s not just an exoteric thing.” 

Contact Christopher Barnes at cbarnes4@nd.edu 
By CHRISTOPHER BARNES 
News Writer 
Step, step, pivot, kick, and giving back to the community are the newest movements of Notre Dame. 
The Gong Fu club, started by graduate student Erik Blair last semester, is ex­panding martial arts beyond the workout room walls. 
“Very few people in the Mid­west practice Gong Fu, com­monly known as Kung Fu, so this club represents an attempt to eral years before I began my doctorate, so with this com­mon thread, we decided to … share our love for Gong Fu.” 
Blair, who passed the test for his black belt in front of the highest teacher of Gong Fu, said he hopes the club’s members will eventually achieve the same feat to cre­ate a group that is self-sus­taining. 
“Ideally, our young group will have 10 members com­mitted to the goal of reaching 

drum up in-“Everyone, regardless 
terest for the 

of ability, is welcome 
practice here 

to attend our meetings 
on campus,” 

and experience a Gong 
Blair said. 

Fu workout ... It’s not 
Blair said 

he decided to just an exoteric thing.” start the club after meet-Erik Blair ing with sev­
founder 
eral students 

Gong Fu Club 
from Beth­
el College, Saint Mary’s College and Notre Dame who shared his love for the martial arts. 
“I’ve spoken with several students and professors from the area who practice Gong Fu, and most of them are af­filiated with the ROTC pro­gram on campus,” Blair said. “I was in the Navy for sev­the level of black belt in their study,” Blair said. “I would like them to ad­vance in the art as much as possible because I defi nit ely want to get the club to a point where it is self sus­taining.” 
Blair said he will be hosting his teacher as a guest sensei to come and 
train with the club at the end of March. 
But Blair said he hopes his students will gain something beyond physical strength. In­stead, he wants the club to enhance members’ minds. 
“There’s a sort of a mindset 




College hosts lecture on global learning 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 
Colleges must follow through on their promises of global edu­cation, R. Michael Paige, profes­sor of International and Intercul­tural Education at the University of Minnesota, said. 
In his lecture, “Global Learn­ing and the Intercultural Di­mension of Internation­a l i zat ion,” delivered at Saint Mary’s support their students’ global perspectives. 

“[Faculty must] foster a learn­ing environment that prepares students to fully participate in the global community,” Paige said. “Colleges must have inter­nationalization permeate the cli­mate of learning.” 
Incorporating global learn­

ing into the curriculum will also make classes more engag­ing, he said. 
“Interna ­tionalization 

College on Fri-must be seen 
“Many times universities 
day, Paige said in the curricu­
say they prepare globally 
universities lum,” Paige 
perspective students, 
promise per-said. “This as-
but the evidence is 
spective stu-pect of learn-dents a global just not there.” ing makes education, courses more but rarely go R. Michael Paige exciting and beyond the students love
professor 
promise. courses with 
University of Minnesota 
“Many times an internation­universities al dimension. say they pre-We must be pare globally thinking how perspective we teach and students, but how we can the evidence is just not there,” he enhance our student’s overall said. “The rhetoric often exceeds education.” the practices.” Marc Belanger, professor of 
In order to follow through on Political Science at Saint Mary’s, these promises, Paige said fac-said he agrees with Paige’s per­ulty members must encourage spective. their students to study abroad. “[Global learning] is important 
“Studying abroad stands as a because today’s students simply beacon for students,” Paige said. will not be successful without an “It is continuously listed as the understanding of the global forc­most influential instrument in a es which impact how they live student’s higher education learn-and work,” he said. “I have long ing experience. A real solid un-believed it was our responsibility dergraduate education involves as humans to be globally aware.” academic study abroad.” 
Paige said faculty must ques-Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at tion how they can prepare and krabac01@saintmarys.edu 


Autism 
continued from page 1 
der [associate professor of psychology] Julie Turn­er,” Shea said. “The idea for my thesis came out of these experiences, as I combined ideas from Dr. Turner’s class with what I was learning in Dr. Diehl’s research lab.” 
Shea’s research reached a deeper level last summer when she worked on an au­tism study with Dr. Diehl. 
“For the study, I worked with four children with autism doing applied be­havior analysis therapy, and we incorporated an in­teractive robot into their 

Food 
continued from page 1 
manistic Studies at Saint Mary’s College, presented as an under­graduate representative. 
Her presentation, “Women, Minorities, and Food Activism: The Story of How One Wom­en’s College Across the Street Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Real Food,” was an inter­active presentation about the Real Food Challenge active at Saint Mary’s College and the work Roland has done as a Mid­west Regional Field Organizer of the Challenge. 
“Real Food Challenge leverag­es the power of youth and uni­versities to create a healthy, fair and green food system, ” she said. “Our primary campaign is to shift $1 billion of existing university food budgets away 

Editor 
continued from page 1 
“Allan has raised the bar this past year as Sports Editor, spe­cifically in staff development and increasing the Sports De­partment’s focus on in-depth stories,” outgoing Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer said. “Working with Allan has been a pleasure over the last three therapy,” Shea said. “The robot acted [as] co-thera­pists during therapy, and [my study] lasted for eight weeks, including 12 ses­sions of therapy for each chi ld.” 
Shea said her experi­ence at Notre Dame helped strengthen her interest in the topic. 
“The opportunities to get involved with research as an undergraduate psychol­ogy major at Notre Dame have been wonderful,” she said. “I have been able to become very involved and take on a leadership role in Dr. Diehl’s lab through­out my time here.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 
from industrial farms and to­wards local, community-based, fair, ecologically sound and hu­mane food sources ¾ what we call “real food” ¾ by 2020. The term "real food" represents a commitment to the multifac­eted nature of this movement.” 
Roland said that food and gender are related to each other on many levels, and she wanted to represent this in her presen­tation. 
“My presentation … included discussion about the role of food in the everyday life of college women from issues of body im­age, eating disorders, allergies and humane treatment of ani­mals,” she said. “Food is some­thing that connects and impacts all of us. So for me, it is crucial to address the injustice in the food system, especially oppres­sion of minorities and women.” 

Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
years, and I know he will con­tinue to set high goals for him­self and others at The Observ­er.” 
Joseph said he expects to continue learning from The Observer even as he rises in its ranks. 
“I’m looking forward to mak­ing The Observer even better than it already is, and I know I’ll have a lot of great experi­ences along the way.” 
Joseph will take over as Edi­tor-in-Chief on March 5. 



Downloads 
continued from page 1 
Kathleen O’Leary, direc­tor of the Office of Residence Life, said Notre Dame does not track user activity on the Uni­versity’s network. Rather, she said her office works with OIT to address any illegal activ­ity brought to its attention by rights holders. 
“The Office of Residence Life collaborates with OIT to ad­dress alleged violations of the University’s Responsible Use of Information Technology Policy by following up with students in writing or by meeting with students in person when neces­sary,” she said. 
According to the Respon­sible Use of Information Tech­nologies Policy, users of Notre Dame’s technology resources are expected to “comply with the law with respect to the rights of copyright owners in the use, distribution or repro­duction of copyrighted materi­als, including but not limited to music or video files.” 
OIT’s statement states the Responsible Use of Information Technologies Policy holds stu­dents to the same standards of activity online as the Universi­ty does in their everyday lives. 
“The use of University infor­mation technology resources, like the use of any other Uni­versity-provided resource and like any other University-re­lated activity, is subject to the requirements of legal and ethi­cal behavior within our com­munity.” 
The statement from OIT also states once these complaints are brought to Notre Dame, OIT itself looks into the matter. 
“When claims of inappro­priate use of technology re­sources are reported to us, we reserve the right to investigate them,” the statement said. 

“When we find a violation, we almost like if you get caught, refer the situation to the Office you’re just unlucky.” of Student Affairs for potential Hesburgh said he considers disciplinary action.” this culture of illegal down-
After bringing the com-loading as generational. plaints to the Office of Student “I think our generation has affairs, the University works an illegal downloading cul­with the rights holders to re-ture,” he said. “I think it just solve the issue at hand. has extended to Notre Dame.” 
“We typically provide as-Hesburgh, who serves as a sistance with interpreting the Residence Assistant (RA) in technical details received in Alumni Hall, said his viola-
a  copyright  tion  has  not  
ow ner ’ s  impacted  his  
c o m pl a i n t and iden­tifying the individuals using the c ompu t er s men t i o ne d in the com­ “No one knows anyone personally, you just hear horror stories and assume it won’t happen to you ... It’s almost like if you get caught, you’re just unlucky.”  participation in any Notre Dame campus activities neg­atively. H o w eve r , he said the infraction did  
plaint,”  the  come  up  in  
s t a t emen t said.  James Hesburgh senior  interviews for his current  

O’Lea ry said illegally download­ing material is both a legal is­sue and a violation of Univer­sity policy, and those who use Notre Dame technological re­sources in such a manner can face punishment from multiple avenues. 
“A copyright owner could choose to file suit against an individual student … Possible sanctions for a violation of the Responsible Use of Information Technologies Policy include written or verbal warnings, fines or community service,” she said. “Repeated violations would result in additional sanctions as outlined in du Lac.” 
In Hesburgh’s case, he only received a written warning. He said he stopped downloading files illegally after receiving the notification, and considers himself lucky to not have been punished worse. 
“No one knows anyone per­sonally, you just hear horror stories and assume it won’t happen to you,” he said. “It’s position. 
“It was a 
short meet­ing,” Hesburgh said. “Techni­cally, [the violation] is a minor infraction compared to other things; it was still significant enough to bring up again three years later.” 
Overall, Hesburgh said he feels Notre Dame treated him fairly in how it handled his case. 
“I think [the Office of Resi­dence Life & Housing] treated me fairly,” he said. “In fact, I appreciate the fact they pro­tected me in the first round. They could have easily handed me over [to the rights holders].” 
This method of protecting, rather than prosecuting, seems to have a lasting effect, Hes-burgh said. 
“The way they protected [me] made sure I didn’t have to [pay a fine, but] it scared me into never doing it again,” he said. “It was the best way to go about it.” 

Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 






SUV drives into path of, crashes with moving train 
Republican primaries heat up 

Assocaited Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — In­vestigators on Sunday were trying to determine what mo­tivated the driver of a sport utility vehicle to ignore a downed crossing arm and flashing lights and pull the vehicle into the path of an oncoming commuter train in Sacramento. 
Three died after the Satur­day afternoon collision south of downtown, including a 21-month-old boy. 
One of the four people in­side the Nissan Pathfinder re­mained in the hospital Sunday at the University of California, Davis Medical Center in Sac­ramento, where she was being treated for serious injuries. 
Authorities also were trying to sort out the relationships of those involved and were not releasing their identifications. 
In addition to the toddler, the dead included a 25-year­old woman and a 62-year-old man, who was ejected from the Pathfinder when it was struck by the southbound light rail train traveling at 55 mph shortly after 4 p.m. The impact pushed the SUV about 30 yards down the track and flipped it. 
Officer Laura Peck, a spokeswoman for the Sac­ramento Police Department, said the woman taken to the hospital was the man’s wife. 
Investigators and officials with the Sacramento Region­al Transit District said video from cameras mounted on the intersection showed the SUV drive around the crossing arms just before impact. That video and other pictures cap­tured by a camera mounted on the train are part of the inves­tigation and were not being released publicly, Peck said. 
Witness accounts appear to support the video evidence that the crossing arms were down and warning lights were flashing when the SUV tried to get across the tracks. 
Davis resident Ravin Pratab, 42, was in a car that was wait­ing to cross the tracks when he said he heard a loud bang and then “saw a light-rail train heading south with a big truck smashed on it.” 
Authorities said six of the roughly 50 passengers on the light rail train were taken to local hospitals but had only minor injuries. 
On Sunday, the tracks were cleared and the intersection was open, with no sign of the previous day’s collision. A white teddy bear was placed at the base of the pole hold­ing the crossing arm, on the same side of the tracks where the SUV had been before it at­tempted to cross. 
Regional transit officials said trains were operating on their regular schedule after a section of track was repaired Saturday night. 
One question investigators are trying to answer is the length of time the crossing arms were down. The light rail train passed through the intersection after two Union Pacific freight trains, going in opposite directions and using different tracks, had passed by. 


Associated Press 
POMPANO BEACH, Fla. — Newt Gingrich slammed GOP rival Mitt Romney on Sunday for the steady stream of at­tacks he likened to “carpet­bombing,” trying to cut into the resurgent front-runner’s lead in Florida in the dwin­dling hours before Tuesday’s pivotal presidential primary. 
And despite surging ahead in polls, Romney wasn’t let­ting up, relentlessly casting Gingrich as an influence ped­dler with a “record of failed leadership.” 
In what has become a wild­ly unpredictable race, the momentum has swung back to Romney, staggered last weekend by Gingrich’s vic­tory in South Carolina. Rom­ney has begun advertising in Nevada ahead of that state’s caucuses next Saturday, illus­trating the challenges ahead for Gingrich, who has pledged to push ahead no matter what happens in Florida. 
An NBC News/Marist poll published Sunday showed Romney with support from 42 percent of likely Florida pri­mary voters, compared with 27 percent for Gingrich. 
Romney’s campaign has dogged Gingrich at his own campaign stops, sending sur­rogates to remind reporters of Gingrich’s House ethics probe in the 1990s and other episodes in his career aimed at sowing doubt about his judgment. 
Gingrich reacted defen­sively, accusing the former Massachusetts governor and a political committee that supports him of lying, and the GOP’s establishment of allowing it. 
“I don’t know how you de­bate a person with civility if they’re prepared to say things that are just plain factually false,” Gingrich said during appearances on Sunday talk shows. “I think the Republi­can establishment believes it’s OK to say and do virtu­ally anything to stop a genu­ine insurgency from winning because they are very afraid of losing control of the old or­der.” 
Gingrich objected specifi­cally to a Romney campaign ad that includes a 1997 NBC News report on the House’s decision to discipline Gin­grich, then speaker, for eth­ics charges. 
Romney continued to paint Gingrich as part of the very Washington establishment he condemns and someone who had a role in the nation’s eco­nomic problems. 
“Your problem in Florida is that you worked for Fred­die Mac at a time when Fred­die Mac was not doing the right thing for the American people, and that you’re sell­ing influence in Washing­ton at a time when we need people who will stand up for the truth in Washington,” Romney told an audience in Naples. 
Gingrich’s consulting firm was paid more than $1.5 mil­lion by the federally-backed mortgage company over a pe­riod after he left Congress in 1999. 
Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum, trailing in Florida by a wide margin, stayed with his 3-year-old daughter, Bella, who was hospitalized with pneumo­nia. Sunday night he told sup­porters, “She without a doubt has turned the corner,” but he cautioned she “isn’t out of the woods yet.” 
Aides said Santorum would resume campaigning Monday in Missouri and Minnesota. 
Texas Rep. Ron Paul, who has invested little in Florida, looked ahead to Nevada. The libertarian-leaning Paul is focusing more on gathering delegates in caucus states, where it’s less expensive to campaign. But securing the nomination only through caucus states is a hard task. 
The intense effort by Romney to slow Gingrich is comparable to his strategy against Gingrich in the clos­ing month before Iowa’s lead-off caucuses Jan. 3. Gingrich led in Iowa polls, lifted by what were hailed as strong performances in televised de­bates, only to drop in the face of withering attacks by Rom­ney, aided immensely by ads sponsored by a “super” politi­cal action committee run by former Romney aides. 
But Romney aides say they made the mistake of assum­ing Gingrich could not rise again as he did in South Car­olina. Romney appears deter­mined not to let that happen again. 
“His record is one of failed leadership,” Romney told more than 700 people at a rally in Pompano Beach Sun­day evening. “We don’t need someone who can speak well perhaps, or can say things we agree with, but does not have the experience of being an ef­fective leader.” 
Gingrich has responded by criticizing Romney’s conser­vative credentials. Outside an evangelical Christian church in Lutz, Gingrich said he was the more loyal conservative on key social issues. 
“This party is not going to nominate somebody who is a pro-abortion, pro-gun­control, pro-tax-increase lib­eral,” Gingrich said. “It isn’t going to happen.” 
But Gingrich, in appear­ances on Sunday news pro­grams, returned to complain­ing about Romney’s tactics. “It’s only when he can mass money to focus on carpet-bombing with negative ads that he gains any traction at all,” he said. 





Violent clashes resume between Syrian troops, rebels 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT  — In dozens of tanks and armored vehicles, Syrian troops stormed rebellious areas near the capital Sunday, shell­ing neighborhoods that have fallen under the control of army dissidents and clashing with fighters. At least 62 people were killed in violence nationwide, activists and residents said. 
The widescale offensive near the capital suggested the regime is worried that military defec­tors could close in on Damascus, which has remained relatively quiet while most other Syrian cities descended into chaos af­ter the uprising began in March. 
The rising bloodshed added urgency to Arab and Western diplomatic efforts to end the 10-month conflict. 
The violence has gradually approached the capital. In the past two weeks, army dissi­dents have become more visible, seizing several suburbs on the eastern edge of Damascus and setting up checkpoints where masked men wearing military attire and wielding assault ri­fles stop motorists and protect anti-regime protests. 
Their presence so close to the capital is astonishing in tightly controlled Syria and suggests the Assad regime may either be losing control or setting up a trap for the fighters before going on the offensive. 
Residents of Damascus re­ported hearing clashes in the nearby suburbs, particularly at night, shattering the city's calm. 
“The current battles taking place in and around Damascus may not yet lead to the unravel­ing of the regime, but the illu­sion of normalcy that the Assads have sought hard to maintain in the capital since the beginning of the revolution has surely un­raveled,” said Ammar Abdulha­mid, a U.S.-based Syrian dissi­dent. 
“Once illusions unravel, real­ity soon follows,” he wrote in his blog Sunday. 
Soldiers riding some 50 tanks and dozens of armored vehicles stormed a belt of suburbs and villages on the eastern outskirts of Damascus known as al-Gh­outa Sunday, a predominantly Sunni Muslim agricultural area where large anti-regime pro­tests have been held. 
Some of the fighting on Sun­day was less than three miles (four kilometers) from Damas­cus, in Ein Tarma, making it the closest yet to the capital. 
“There are heavy clashes go­ing on in all of the Damascus suburbs,” said Rami Abdul-Rahman, director of the Brit­ish-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, who relies on a network of activists on the ground. “Troops were able to enter some areas but are still facing stiff resistance in oth­ers.” 
The fighting using mortars and machine guns sent entire families fleeing, some of them on foot carrying bags of belong­ings, to the capital. 
“The shelling and bullets have not stopped since yesterday,” said a man who left his home in Ein Tarma with his family Sun­day. “It’s terrifying, there’s no electricity or water, it’s a real war,” he said by telephone on condition of anonymity, for fear of reprisals. 
The uprising against Assad, which began with largely peace­ful demonstrations, has grown increasingly militarized recent­ly as more frustrated protesters and army defectors have taken up arms. 
In a bid to stamp out resis­tance in the capital’s outskirts, the military has responded with a withering assault on a string of suburbs, leading to a spike in violence that has killed at least 150 people since Thursday. 


The United Nations says at least 5,400 people have been killed in the 10 months of vio­lence. 
The U.N. is holding talks on a new resolution on Syria and next week will discuss an Arab League peace plan aimed at ending the crisis. But the initia­tives face two major obstacles: Damascus’ rejection of an Arab plan that it says impinges on its sovereignty, and Russia’s will­ingness to use its U.N. Security Council veto to protect Syria from sanctions. 
Arab League Secretary-General Nabil Elaraby told re­porters Sunday in Egypt that contacts were under way with China and Russia. 
“I hope that their stand will be adjusted in line with the final drafting of the draft resolution,” he told reporters before leaving for New York with Qatari Prime Minister Hamad bin Jassim. 
The two will seek U.N. support for the latest Arab plan to end Syria's crisis. The plan calls for a two-month transition to a uni­ty government, with Assad giv­ing his vice president full pow­ers to work with the proposed government. 

Because of the escalating vio­lence, the Arab League on Sat­urday halted the work of its ob­server mission in Syria at least until the League’s council can meet. Arab foreign ministers were to meet Sunday in Cairo to discuss the Syrian crisis in light of the suspension of the observers’ work and Damascus’ refusal to agree to the transition timetable, the League said. 
U.N. chief Ban Ki-moon said he was "concerned" about the League's decision to suspend its monitoring mission and called on Assad to "immediately stop the bloodshed." He spoke Sun­day at an African Union summit in Addis Ababa. 


Afghan family in Canada convicted  in ‘honor killing’ trial 
Associated Press described as “cold-blooded, shameful murders” resulting 
KINGSTON, Ontario  — A jury from a “twisted concept of hon-on Sunday found an Afghan fa-or” in a case that shocked and ther, his wife and their son guilty riveted Canadians. of killing three teenage sisters Prosecutors said the defen­and a co-wife in what the judge dants allegedly killed the three teenage sisters because they dis­honored the family by defying its disciplinarian rules on dress, dating, socializing and using the Internet. 

The jury took 15 hours to find Mohammad Shafia, 58; his wife Tooba Yahya, 42; and their son Hamed, 21, each guilty of four counts of first-degree murder. First-degree murder carries an automatic life sentence with no chance of parole for 25 years. 
After the verdict was read, the three defendants again declared their innocence in the killings of sisters Zainab, 19, Sahar 17, and Geeti, 13, as well as Rona Amir Mohammad, 52, Shafia’s child­less first wife in a polygamous marriage. 
Their bodies were found June 30, 2009, in a car submerged in a canal in Kingston, Ontario, where the family had stopped for the night on their way home to Montreal from Niagara Falls, Ontario. 
The prosecution alleged it was a case of premeditated murder, staged to look like an accident after it was carried out. Prosecu­tors said the defendants drowned their victims elsewhere on the site, placed their bodies in the car and pushed it into the canal. 
Ontario Superior Court Judge Robert Maranger said the evi­dence clearly supported the con­viction. 
“It is difficult to conceive of a more heinous, more despicable, more honorless crime,” Ma-ranger said. “The apparent rea­son behind these cold-blooded, shameful murders was that the four completely innocent victims offended your completely twisted concept of honor ... that has ab­solutely no place in any civilized society.” 
In a statement following the verdict, Canadian Justice Min­ister Rob Nicholson called honor killings a practice that is “bar­baric and unacceptable in Can­ada.” 
Defense lawyers said the deaths were accidental. They said the Nissan car accidentally plunged into the canal after the eldest daughter, Zainab, took it for a joy ride with her sisters and her father’s first wife. Hamed said he watched the accident, al­though he didn't call police from the scene. 
After the jury returned the verdicts, Mohammad Shafia, speaking through a translator, said, “We are not criminal, we are not murderer, we didn’t com­mit the murder and this is un­just.” His weeping wife, Tooba, also declared the verdict unjust, saying, “I am not a murderer, and I am a mother, a mother.” 
Their son, Hamed, speaking in English said, “I did not drown my sisters anywhere.” 
Hamed’s lawyer, Patrick Mc-Cann, said he was disappointed with the verdict, but said his cli­ent will appeal and he believes the other two defendants will as well. 
But prosecutor Gerard Laar­huis welcomed the verdict. 

“This jury found that four strong, vivacious and freedom-loving women were murdered by their own family in the most troubling of circumstances,” Laarhuis said outside court. 
“This verdict sends a very clear message about our Cana­dian values and the core prin­ciples in a free and democratic society that all Canadians enjoy and even visitors to Canada en­joy,” he said to cheers of approv­al from onlookers. 
The family had left Afghani­stan in 1992 and lived in Paki­stan, Australia and Dubai be­fore settling in Canada in 2007. Shafia, a wealthy businessman, married Yahya because his first wife could not have children. 
Shafia’s first wife was living with him and his second wife. The polygamous relationship, if revealed, could have resulted in their deportation. 
The prosecution painted a pic­ture of a household controlled by a domineering Shafia, with Hamed keeping his sisters in line and doling out discipline when his father was away on frequent business trips to Dubai. 
The months leading up to the deaths were not happy ones in the Shafia household, according to evidence presented at trial. Zainab, the oldest daughter, was forbidden to attend school for a year because she had a young Pakistani-Canadian boy­friend, and she fled to a shelter, terrified of her father, the court was told. 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, January 30, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 


S@#! Sam Stryker says 
Unless you’ve been living under a rock lately, you have not been able to avoid the internet meme sensation “S@#! (so and so) says.” 
First it was “S@#! girls say,” and next thing you know, the floodgates opened 
— “S@#! gay guys say,” “S@#! white girls say,” “S@#! New Yorkers say,” “S@#! no one says,” “S@#! curly haired people say,” — you name the s@#!, someone was saying it. Sam Stryker 

I think the popu­larity of the “s@#!” News Editor meme is how “niche” we consider our­selves within society. 
We define ourselves by what makes us different — gender, race, sexuality, where we live, even hair color. What is truly scary is how accurate some of these stereotypes are. Like it or not, humans are creatures of habit, and these habits are easy to recognize (and mock). 
Therefore, I think it is about time to create a list of “S@#! Sam Stryker Says.” I consider myself a one-of-a-kind gift to the world, and I refuse to let any stereotypes define me. Therefore, after some deep consideration, I have come up with a list of my own unique sayings. If you ever find yourself saying, muttering or screaming one of these, ask yourself, am I Sam Stryker? 
“It’s a thing.” I am prone to saying ridiculous things or committing ridicu­lous acts. My safest method of recovery is by saying “it’s a thing,” as in, whatev­er just happened is socially acceptable, despite what you may believe. Examples of usage include eating cottage cheese with cereal in the dining hall, wearing shorts in October and justifying other­wise socially unacceptable behavior. 
“Oh my god, it’s my song!” Some people have favorite songs. Then there is me, who last semester listened to “Moves Like Jagger” on a loop when I was studying for finals. When my song comes on at the gym, a club or a store, I issue this warning that everyone better clear out of my way, because I am about to lose it. You may think you are about to break it down, but you missed the memo — the world is my dance floor. 
Death stare. This isn’t anything I say, but sometimes, actions speak louder than words. Some people look pissed off or mad at the world sometimes, but I consider myself a modern Medusa. Steer clear, ladies and gentleman, oth­erwise risk incurring my wrath. Com­mon usages are when people take too long in front of me in the dining hall, if you get in my way when I’m on my bike or if your outfit is hideous. 
“Also …” This, admittedly, was not my creation, and my closest friends are known to say it as well. But when conversation moves at a mile a minute, you need a safe word to indicate what you were just saying was not interest­ing, and the rest of the group is ready to move on. This is where “also” comes in. It’s the quickest way to politely steer the conversation in another direction. 
So there you have it, the Sam Stryker­isms of the world. There are certainly more, but I ran out of space. Also … 
Contact Sam Stryker at      sstryke1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

For Notre Dame’s history 
“Wouldn’t you like to lead our Notre Dame community in our new move­ment, our new front, our new effort?” 
Alexa Arastoo, president of Diver­sity Council, has thrown her support behind a new production called “Show Some Skin: the Race Mono-Edithstein Cho logues,” a show which resembles Asiatic Gaze “Loyal Daugh­ters & Sons” to explore the topic of multiculturalism, race and diversity in the Notre Dame community. 
As said in the official statement of the group, the production aims “to provide a platform for sharing ex­periences on ethnicity and race to enhance our ongoing conversation on diversity in the Notre Dame students, faculty and staff.” 
The Diversity Council is the con­glomeration of 24 undergraduate clubs of Multicultural Student Pro­grams and Services that is directly under Student Affairs. The Diversity Council has been sponsoring “Show Some Skin” since December. 
Arastoo stressed the necessity of having a production like “Show Some Skin.” 
“The Diversity Council recognizes that students have stories held in­side of them,” she said. “There was no question about sponsoring ‘Show Some Skin: The Race Monologues.’ Students want to be heard. Art is a safe way to do it.” 
Arastoo described the uniqueness of the “Show Some Skin” production. 
“The raw emotion you get from the theatrical performance will not be something you can get from an in-class, intellectual discussion or a Viewpoint article,” Arastoo said. 
Drawing on her experiences, Arastoo shared her personal take on how stu­dents need this production. 
“When you talk with your friends at dinner, you hear a huge range of hilari­ous to infuriating things. Especially for students of color, these happenings are all we talk about,” she said. “Some of these stories become almost like urban legends or a kind of folklore at Notre Dame. Without writing them down, critical narratives will be lost.” 
Beyond the power of narratives, Alexa expressed her concern over the insufficient interest from the student body on multicultural events and the lack of depth in students’ approaches to multiculturalism. 
“When cultural clubs host events, students who are not involved with Multicultural Student Programs and Services think that ‘It’s not for me,’” she said. 
The multicultural groups putting on the shows do not need the post­ers themselves. They are already on the email list-serve; most of them are backstage putting on the show. The show is also for everyone else. At the same time, attending cultural events is not enough. We all have to be open to looking deeper into what people have to honestly say about race.” 
26 percent of Notre Dame students identify themselves as student of color or an underrepresented minority race. The corresponding percentage is 74 percent. 

“Opinions on race only from the people of color do not show the whole picture,” Arastoo said. 
Students who don’t identify as being a racial minority not only have the right to submit their own ideas for the show, but also have the right to enjoy it. No­body should block themselves off from a project like ‘Show Some Skin’ that can make a difference. Not only is it ben­eficial for everybody but we need them there. These are our stories.” 
Arastoo emphasized the importance of students leading our way by sub­mitting their anonymous stories to s.someskin@gmail.com by Feb. 10. 
“The production can happen if and only if we take the five minutes to scratch out the honest stories from our hearts,” she said. “We can hope for a deeper look into the life of students around us. A bigger concern would be to question ourselves: Do we as stu­dents in Notre Dame make diversity a priority?” 
We must talk about race. No one is blaming anyone. A lot of students have to want to make diversity a priority. It has to spread. We must talk because we are the people who can change things.” 
For Notre Dame’s history, would you help build a better future? 
Edith is a sociology and peace studies major who is excited to listen to the secret, “not politically correct” per­spectives on multiculturalism, race and diversity in “Show Some Skin.” She can be reached at echo1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Welcome to Lob City, please enjoy your stay 
Andrew Gastelum’s article (“Don’t get sick with Lob City Disorder,” Jan. 26) regarding how he believes the hype over the Los Angeles Clippers is undeserved proves the typical Laker fan’s denial of reality. 
Living in Los Angeles all my life allowed me to see the spite, discourtesy and vulgarity the Lakers fan base has for any opposition who doesn’t worship Kobe. Leave it to a Lakers fan to spit in your face, riot, destroy LA and not think twice about it. 
That is the past, for now the Lakers have had a taste of reality. Simply put, the Clippers have a winning record, and Los Angeles loves a winning team. Now that the Clip­pers are having a respectable season and are the leaders of the Pacific Division, the Lakers are feeling the pressure of a dwindling fan support and are becoming desperate to maintain their name. 
To Andrew, judging you are a sports writer, you should have reviewed the stats before making any unjustified claims that the Clippers lack depth. The Lakers have only three starters who average over ten points per game. Most points in a game are scored by powerhouse Kobe Bryant. 
He even scored 42 points against the Clippers during their previous match-up, and yet the Lakers still lost! 
On the other hand, the Clippers have not three, but five players (including non-starter Mo Williams) whose average points per game are above 14.7. Since you believe the Clip­pers didn’t have depth, where would that put the Lakers? 
Historically, the Lakers have had an ample amount of ac­complishments in comparison to the Clippers. 
Regardless, those accomplishments have not prevented many of the Lakers’ previously oh-so-loyal fans from be­coming Clippers fans. 
I think the murals of Blake Griffin, Chris Paul and De-Andre Jordan on Hotel Figueroa summarize the story: The Clippers are the new team of Los Angeles. 
My advice to you, Andrew — recognize the change, embrace the present, follow in the footsteps of your many counterpart “Laker fans” and buy a Clippers jersey. Wel­come to Lob City, please enjoy your stay. 
Nick Lupica 
sophomore Sorin College Jan. 29 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It seemed to happen in springs, the revealing of things.” 
Aimee Bender 
U.S. novelist, short story writer 



WEEKLY POLL 
What’s the best part of the Super Bowl? 
The advertisements The food The uniforms The rivalry 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Monday, January 30, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 



Silent majority 
It’s difficult to believe we are already two weeks into a new semester. Thank you for taking the time to read this col­umn and for your willingness to respond to my articles. 
The goal has been to stimulate G. David Moss conversation and dialogue, and there Dr. D @ the GRC is evidence this goal has been success­fully achieved. 
Whether discussing the hook-up cul­ture, objectification of women, the bro code or the ways we allow the media to determine our method of relating, en­gaging these issues head on is the only way to foster an environment of change. 
If we are intentional about this process, authentic dialogue is not far off. And once that happens, true and meaningful relationships will become common place at Notre Dame. We are not there yet, but I do believe we are on the way. 
Navigating social norms can be a tricky undertaking. There is a unique internal conflict that takes place when doing what you know to be the right thing, and can potentially move you out of the “circle of coolness.” 
Unfortunately, this fear of being ostracized has caused many to remain silent when the rationality of their voice is desperately needed. 
Stepping in to protect an intoxicated student against the advances of another at the risk of being labeled a “blocker,” resisting the pressure to expose vari­ous body parts in spite of being labeled a prude, telling your dorm mates about your incredible “date” and admitting there was no physical activity, declar­ing you are saving yourself for marriage against the wave of physical permissive­ness are just a few of the situations that, by society’s standards, can place your social status in jeopardy. 
As a young and vibrant community, we have been afforded an excellent opportunity to expand our definition of coolness. 
To arrive at the destination of authen­tic relationships, it will be important for us to focus on what many have termed the “silent majority.” We all know the extremes, the outliers and the individu­als who have something to say about everything. 
It would be wonderful to hear from those who have been relatively silent about these relationship issues on the Notre Dame campus. I know for a fact not everyone on this campus is hooking up, grinding or abusing alcohol to the point where sexual violence becomes inevitable. 
This semester, we intend to fully engage all corners of the Notre Dame community, particularly those who have been successful in the relationship arena, yet have no desire to “shout it from the mountain tops” or take center stage. If we are to craft a welcoming and affirming community, we must draw from the wisdom and creativity of all its members. 
We must call out the dysfunction, while also emphasizing the qualities of authentic relationship that give life and create incredible memories. Many of you are doing the latter, and we need your voice as our campus redefines the proto­col of relationship development. 
If you are a member of the “silent majority” in this area, I hope you will help us to critically examine the culture that many too readily accept as the only option. In my article, The Bro Code (Nov. 3, 2011), I spoke about the silence of our actions, and how that silence permits dysfunction to exist unchecked. 
Shattering the mirage of intimacy and replacing it with true relationships takes time, effort and intentionality. It is true everyone is busy, especially in this com­petitive, academically intense environ­ment. But please don’t fool yourself into thinking your 10,000 Facebook friends “have your back.” 
In the end, the barrage of quick, easy, no-strings-attached interactions leave us empty and hungering for something that truly satisfies. Some of you know exactly what I am talking about, be­cause you have visited my office to talk about my editorials, or I have read your opinions in these pages. 

My hope is you care enough to help us redefine the contours of cool, to reestab­lish the mystery of sexy and to hold our relationships to a new standard of au­thenticity. I pray you will accept the call to rally others in stopping the madness. 
To be honest, without your intentional investment in this undertaking, very little progress can be made. If healthy relating is to become common, it must begin with you. You have to own this and speak life into this effort. Of course, this requires a certain level of courage and vulnerability. 
It will not be easy, but at Notre Dame, we don’t back away from difficult chal­lenges. There are many of you who place great importance on honest dialogue, and this semester I intend to use this editorial to systematically give voice to your thoughts and ideas. 
To do this, however, I need to hear from you. Let’s get the party started. 
Dr. G. David Moss is the Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs and the Interim Director for the Gender Relations Center. He can be contacted at gmoss@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Believe the hype 
I am a basketball fan from Los Angeles who long ago decided to take the righteous path and become a Clippers fan, rather than jump on the Lakers bandwagon. 
That being said, I found Andrew Gastellum’s article (“Don’t get sick with Lob City Disorder,” Jan. 26) about the Clippers to be fundamen­tally flawed. Now, I’m not trying to argue that the Clippers will ever historically supplant the Lakers as LA’s best team — that will never happen since the Lakers have as much history as any franchise in the NBA — nor am I trying to say the Clippers should be favorites to win the NBA championship this year. But I do argue that the Clippers are allowed to have the same expectations as the Lakers this year and are legit contenders to make a deep playoff run. 
The addition of Chris Paul, along with NBA champions and former All-stars Caron Butler and Chauncey Billups, has made the Clip Show a legitimate contender. 
This is evident from their standing atop the Pacific Division, ahead of the “hungry, veteran-savvy” Lakers. This Clipper team “with no playoff experience” (except for Chauncey Billups, Chris Paul, Caron Butler and Mo Williams, of course) has already beaten the Mavericks, Miami Heat and the Lakers, three teams the author claimed they wouldn’t be able to beat. 
The author also made the absurd claim that most people are at Clipper games to see the opposing team, yet Clipper Season Tickets sold out within minutes of going on sale (there must be a lot of good teams coming to the Staples Center this year). 
The Clippers have some of the most dedicated fans in the NBA, headlined by Clipper Darrell, a fan who dresses in a red and blue suit for every home game, yells so loud he can be clearly heard on TV and once turned down a six-figure job offer from Mark Cuban to become a Dallas Mavericks fan. 
During the Clippers 2006 playoff run, LA sports reporter John Ire­land said the Staples Center was louder during Clipper playoff games than it had been during any of the Lakers championship runs. 
Basketball fans who hold both Laker and Clipper season ticket packages at the Staples Center have even reported Clipper tickets are in greater demand than Laker tickets this year. 
Clippers fans are just as dedicated and nearly as plentiful as Laker fans in the LA region. The odds of Chris Paul leaving young superstar Blake Griffin and a solid core of role players in 2013 to join a 35 year-old Kobe Bryant, a 33 year-old Pau Gasol and an overrated Andrew Bynum (who has the knees of a 70-year-old and the maturity of a 7-year-old) seem fairly low. 
Laker fans need to stop the denial and accept the reality they are no longer the best team in LA. The Clippers are here to stay and will be legitimate title contenders for years to come. Just a spoonful of reality helps the medicine go down. 
Matt O’Brien 
sophomore Carroll Hall Jan. 26 

Diversity and Will Smith 
Notre Dame is not often noted for its diver­sity. As a white Catholic, I can be fairly sure my walk down South Quad every morning will be filled mostly with people who look, talk and act like me. However, despite being a some­what monochromatic multicultural rainbow, I believe recognizing our similarities is a step in the right direction. 
If you are currently a student, a few things are probably true: 
1) You are smart. For reference, see each incoming freshman class’ record-breaking test scores and accolades. 
2) You are a leader. Either personally, at school or in the larger community, ND/SMC/ HCC students are role models motivated by dignity and compassion. 
3) You know the lyrics to the “Fresh Prince of Bel-Air Theme Song.” 
4) You find Father Jenkins’ voice soothing. When he speaks, babies stop crying, the el­derly forget old aches and anxious minds are put to rest. 
It is clear that our most powerful resource is community. Although each of us may be very smart, we are smarter together. While each of us may be an apt leader, we lead bet­ter as a group. 

Even though we can perform solo, Will Smith’s raps sound better (or infinitely worse) when shouted at Reckers at 2 a.m. In the calming words of Father Jenkins: “Working together, we can build a fully diverse commu­nity. We recognize that a more diverse faculty and student body is a richer community for learning, discussion and inquiry, and no one whose graduates are better prepared to live and work in a world that becomes flatter and more global each year.” 
Community is an asset with which we must approach the issue of race at Notre Dame. The upcoming Race Monologues, sponsored by Asiatic Gaze and the Diversity Council, gives us a chance to openly share our thoughts on the issues of race and diversity. 
This event seeks to open a forum for student discussion without any of the usual obligation, hard feelings or pretense. Honestly discussing race at Notre Dame gives us the opportunity to challenge ourselves and better our commu­nity. I think Big Willie would approve. 
Sam Jones 
sophomore Carroll Hall Jan. 29 




COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 

Heelys. Silly bandz. Leg warmers. Planking. Is corporate responsibility destined for the down-and-out fate of those here-today, gone-tomorrow col­lege kid fads? Maybe. Or, is Gordon Gekko rolling over in his cinematic grave because the business world is about to be taken over by people who do not believe that greed, for lack of a better word, is good? 
Companies and students alike are discovering just how important corpo­rate responsibility is for both sides of the table. Dec. 2 marked the 10th an­niversary of Enron’s implosion, and current college students seem to have become a product of the fallout. Lee Svete, the director of the Notre Dame Career Center, says he has “definitely” seen an increase in students’ interest in career paths paved with corporate social responsibility. 
“It reflects both the culture of the company, and a commitment and an active plan to improve the lives of oth­ers as a result of business.” 
Svete said companies who boast the same community service and involve­ment as colleges like Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s become a natural transi­tion for students into an environment with similar values. There has been such an increase in interest that the campus’ Students in Free Enterprise (SIFE) club will be hosting a 2nd an­nual event for students tied to the Win­ter Career Fair, inviting companies to conduct a panel on corporate respon­sibility and their own application of it. 
Last year, the event had representa­tives from Proctor and Gamble, Gener­al Mills and General Electric speaking on ways their companies have imple­mented to integrate business and give back. This year, Proctor and Gamble, General Mills and General Electric will be returning, along with AT&T and PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
SIFE, an organization that strives to bring together college students in “the shared mission of creating a bet­ter, more sustainable world through the positive power of business,” will be presenting the event as a project for a conference. SIFE maintains partner­ships with Walmart, PepsiCo, Hersey’s and Lowe’s. 
Junior Dagny Nagengast, president of SIFE, said last year’s creation of the event and its continuation through this year came from both a current desire and interest among students to “ex­pand the presence of corporate social responsibility on campus.” 
“We want to be able to present these types of people to companies, as well as introduce students to those kinds of companies,” Nagengast said. 

She added that she has noticed an in­crease in students gravitating towards companies with a social message and mission. 
“When you talk to people about what they want, they talk about how they re­ally want to make an impact with the company they work with. [Notre Dame students] want to bring the strong ND camaraderie and heart into the busi­ness world.” 
If Quidditch teams have somehow managed to become permanent on col­lege campuses, then corporate respon­sibility stands to change its status from a trend to a fixture of our corporate fu­ture. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 

BRENNA WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 

Twitter is populated by average people, celebrities and news sources all broadcasting to their followers in the Twitterverse. However, another equally im­portant genre of Twitter, one hopefully all of us have embraced to light up our days, is humor. We all have our favorites, but here is a round up of some of the most popular humorous accounts out there. #enjoy 
@whitegrlproblem 

Description: Babe Walker, the character behind the Twitter handle, started what has now become a staple of Twitter: the @______problems category. @whitegrlproblem gave inspiration to a generation of tweeters with things to complain about (see: @ HipsterProblems, @NDProblems or @90sgirlprob­lem). The white girl behind the tweets has less to complain about these days, with a new website and a book due out at the end of January. 2012 is the year of #whitegirlsuccesses, even if you measure your success in the number of men you can dump in a week. Walker gave the voiceless Daddy’s girl in all of us a place to commiserate about how hard it is to be obsessed with Ryan Gosling, small dogs and yourself all at the same time. 
Sample Tweet: Is it bad that I just woke up on the floor of a dressing room at Barneys, naked, clutch­ing my Amex and screaming?#whitegirlproblems 
Tweet Frequency: At least once daily. 
@F1rstWrldPrblms 
Description: You know how waking up for an 11 
a.m. class is really hard? Have you ever wanted to Tweet about it, but your phone was on the other side of the room? Well, the folks at @F1rstWrldPrblms have done you a favor and already did it. This is the @whitegrlproblem for all of us. Those little annoy­ing things about every day life have been perfectly encapsulated into 140 character chunks and Tweet­ed for the world to see. Now you have to take way less time away from video games or watching TV to complain about how hard it is to be you. 
Sample Tweet: I can’t reach my laptop so now I have to surf the web on my smart phone. #First-WorldProblems 
Tweet Frequency: Varies. At least weekly. 
@FriendFromHS 
Description: Pretty much everybody from a small town has one. That person you knew in high school who didn’t go to college and stayed in your home­town hoping to relive the glory days for the rest of his or her life. This fictional Twitter handle follows the life of a young woman who is living large in her hometown, bashing “nerdz,” drinking heavily and barely keeping track of her twins named Caylee and Jon Benet. If you come from a big city, you might look at this Twitter handle in absolute horror, but in true Twitter fashion, it’s all taken in good, exaggerated fun … hopefully. 
Sample Tweet: happy martin lutha king day!!!!! 
the world is a betta place bc he helpd free slavez wit da underground railroad #dream 
Tweet Frequency: At least once daily. 
@JJONAHJAMESON 

Description: Fans of the Spider Man franchise will recognize this character as Peter Parker’s boss, the tyrannical editor of the Daily Bugle. For those who aren’t as familiar, he’s a man with power who enjoys a stiff Scotch, money and yelling at his secretary IN ALL CAPS. 
Sample Tweet: MISS BRANT! I WANT PARKER’S HEAD ON A PIKE. I DON’T CARE IF YOU HAVE TO BREAK INTO THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART TO FIND ME ONE. 
Tweet Frequency: Several times a week, some­times multiple times in a day. 
@parietalspolice 

Description: A Twitter that only ND students could truly understand. With hilarious helpful tips on how to relieve stress during finals, how to interact with the opposite sex and what to do on the weekends at ND, these tweets are best not read in the library un­less you want to get stared at for laughing out loud. 
Sample Tweet: To the male and female students who just hugged under the Lyons arch, don’t think I didn’t see you. #Sinners 
Tweet Frequency: Varies. 
Contact Brenna Williams at bwillia9@nd.edu 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 


Monday, January 30, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 



MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 


SARAH MERVOSH 
Managing Editor 
The story of “Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close” is not exactly cof­fee-break conversation material. 
Director Stephen Daldry’s takes on complex and difficult issues, such as the indescribable heartbreak of 9/11, a young boy’s crippling anxiety due to a borderline Autism diagnosis and one family’s journey to rebuild and find acceptance after the death of their father. 
Somehow, Daldry manages to tack­le each of these issues completely, without using clichés and in a way that the average viewer can relate to. 
The movie centers on 9-year-old Oskar Schell (Thomas Horn) as he struggles to come to terms with the death of his father (Tom Hanks), who died in the 9/11 terrorist attacks, in the only way he knows how — to fig­ure out how it “makes sense.” 

to each other in a family previously connected by the man of the house. A widow’s desperation and fragility combined with a child’s anger at his mother simply because she is not his father makes for some heart-wrench­ingly authentic moments. 
With names like Hanks and Bullock in this movie, great acting might have been a given. But any awards this time around will likely go to Horn, who came out of his first ever movie role with the intensity and emotional range of what might have been ex­pected from his veteran co-stars. 
Horn has the ability to successfully portray Oskar’s insufferable grief and pain from losing his father, while also mastering his character’s endearing quirks to provide some comic relief in this emotional drama. 
Without reading the book the mov­ie is based on, it is difficult to com­pare the two. However, critics have 
not been as re-


Name: Caitlin Connelly 
When he 
ceptive to the enters his fa-movie as they ther’s closet were to its book for the first counter-part. time after his   Still, “Ex­death, he ac-tremely Loud cidentally dis-and Incredibly covers a key Close” has all in a small ma-the makings nila envelope of a good mov­with the word ie — strong “Black” on it. characters, Convinced that plot suspense, it is a message moments that from his fa-make you 
ther he goes on smile and 

Spotted: Starbuck’s at LaFortune 
Caitlin’s outfit is all about leather! Her 
simple jeans and loose white tunic perfectly 
complement her knee-high leather boots and 
cropped jacket. Her printed black and tur­

quoise scarf adds a touch of color to the en-
a maniacal moments search across that make 

semble. Caitlin looks effortlessly cool for an 
New York City to find the you tear up. lock the key fits in a last adventure Join Oskar on his adventure and of sorts. find yourself rooting for him, feeling 
Oskar’s adventure not only pro-his triumphs and defeats like they 
vides the viewer with an evolving plot were your own and walking out of with twists and turns that keep you the theater with a teary-eyed sense of 
guessing, but his determination to contentment. solve his father’s last message also 
allows Oskar to overcome some of his Contact Sarah Mervosh at                       own fears. smervosh@nd.edu 
As Oskar tests the lock from Man­hattan to Brooklyn, he learns to speak to and relate to strangers who share stories of their own. 

Oskar also forms a special relation-“Extremely Loud and ship with “The Renter,” a mute elder-Incredibly Close” 

afternoon of coffee with friends. 
ly man (Max von Sydow) who rents a 

room in Oskar’s grandmother’s apart­ment. Unsurprisingly, a boy who has Directed by: Stephen 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu difficulty talking to new people and a Daldry mute man get along quite well, and Starring: Sandra Bullock, The Renter helps Oskar on his way to Tom Hanks, Thomas Horn healing and self-discovery. 
Some of the most poignant moments in the movie come from interactions between Oskar and his mom (Sandra Bullock), as they struggle to relate 


  DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORTY 




Sports commissioner: implement relegation 
It is a completely ludicrous concept. What would I do if I were in the commissioner of all sports for a week with unilat­eral power? Even just considering such a pos­sibility is a time-drain. 
Well then, I suppose it makes the per­fect Sports Author­ity topic. But instead of considering all sports, I think I’ll focus on one idea I’ve had lately. 
Obviously, if dealing with all sports, there is the “Bull Durham” mandate of a “consti­tutional amendment outlawing Astroturf and the designated hitter.” I would give a nod to Aaron Sorkin’s best piece of television-writing, bowing to the “Sports Night” creed in which Spike Lee needs to “sit down and shut up.” 
I would ask Jim Tressel to give the 80’s their sweat­ervests back, and while I’m at it, remind Mike Brey he wore a collared shirt when the Irish defeated No. 19 Connecticut on Sunday, and it was not a bad look. 
I would follow Major League Baseball’s lead, in which it retired No. 42 league-wide in homage to Jackie Robinson, and outlaw any basketball player from ever wearing No. 23 again. While I’m at it, Pete Rose, welcome to the Hall of Fame. Barry Bonds, your name will never appear on the ballot. 
Anyways, those are all trivial feats — great for headlines and a few good quotes, but not hav­ing lasting effects on this world known as sports. For the re­cord, a sport is only something you cannot do while smoking a cigar. Farewell racecar driv­ing, golf, bowling and chess. Good to see you still running, swimming and horseracing. 
But my real change: Imple­ment a relegation system, a la European soccer, into college athletics. And yes, I realize how many people this would upset, but give it some time to sink in. 
The NCAA is currently considering a proposal to give certain athletes $2,000 a year, calling it some sort of “cost of academics,” which really means, “The SEC wants to give money to its football players above the table so it is harder to see them do it under the table.” Smaller schools are cringing at the idea, not so much from the recruiting standpoint but from the view from their checkbooks. 

While the NCAA considers this, the Naval Academy is about to join the Big East to play football against eastern schools such as Houston and Boise State. Just to draw a clearer picture: From An­napolis, Md., to Boise, Idaho, is a measly 2,400 miles. 
Let’s eliminate these pointless, endless politics. Let’s acknowledge the super conferences, while still giv­ing the smaller schools a chance at the glory of Janu­ary and March. Let’s take a lesson from the Europeans 
— though one lesson and only one lesson. 
Next year, all 120 NCAA football teams will be split into six conferences, by yours truly, based on geography. At the end of the year, the top 10 teams in each conference will remain in the Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS), while the other 60 will from a second­ary league, the FBS II, if you will for simplicity’s sake. From there, every year, the bottom two teams in an FBS conference will be relegated to the corresponding FBS II conference, while the top two teams in the lesser confer­ence will jump to the big leagues. 
A similar tactic will be taken with the 338 NCAA men’s basketball programs. 
Imagine the drama in the Red River Shootout, when Oklahoma knows it could send Texas down to the FBS 
II. Imagine Texas fighting for its life. 
Imagine the current Notre Dame basketball team. Com­ing into the season, it seemed destined for relegation to the lesser league. Now? The Irish kick-started the Pittsburgh fall down a deep valley. 
Let’s admit there are some schools with advantages. And let’s make the rest more dramatic. 
After I’ve done that, I’ll use my week of power to cap all ticket prices at $45, conces­sion beer prices at $5 and I’ll enjoy the games myself, finally able to afford them. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.
    Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
NBA 


James, Heat hold off Chicago 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — LeBron James had 35 points, while reigning NBA MVP Derrick Rose wasted two chances in the final 23 seconds and the Miami Heat escaped with a 97-93 win Sunday over the Chicago Bulls. 
Chris Bosh scored 24 points and added 12 rebounds for the Heat, who never trailed — but this win in a rematch of last season’s Eastern Conference finals was not easy. Dwyane Wade added 15 points for Mi­ami. 
Rose scored 34 points for Chicago, but missed a pair of foul shots that would have giv­en Chicago the lead with 22.7 seconds left. He had made all 28 of his free throws in the fourth quarter this season. 
Bosh sealed it with two free throws with 0.1 seconds left for Miami, which has now won five straight over the Bulls — counting the last four games of last season’s East title series. 
Both sides said this game was supposed to be just anoth­er regular-season matchup, one without extra meaning. 
So not true. 
The Bulls erased what was a 12-point deficit and tied the game at 84 on a brilliant la­yup by Rose with 6:55 left. The Heat answered with a 10-2 run, before Rose’s three-point play with 49.1 seconds left cut the lead to 94-93. 
Rose then lost the ball on a drive, but drew contact from Miami’s Udonis Haslem and went to the line with Chicago down one with 22.7 seconds left. Rose’s first hit the front of the rim and bounced away, and his second rimmed out. James grabbed the rebound and was fouled by Joakim Noah — only to miss both free throws himself. 
After the second miss, Bosh appeared to emerge with the rebound, but an inadvertent whistle led to a jump ball. James outleaped Taj Gib­son, getting the ball to Mario Chalmers, who made one free throw for a two-point lead. 
Chicago wound up getting one last chance with 9.9 sec­onds left, calling time-out. Naturally, it went to Rose, who weaved his way into the lane 
— but came up short. Bosh got the rebound, and Miami began celebrating. 
Rip Hamilton and Noah each scored 11 for Chicago, which got 10 apiece from Ronnie Brewer and Carlos Boozer. 
The Bulls played without for­ward Luol Deng and guard C.J. Watson, both sidelined with wrist injuries. Watson may be back in Chicago’s lineup as early as Monday, and Deng — who has a torn ligament in his left, non-shooting, wrist — is “very close” to a return, Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau said. 


Miami took an 11-point lead early in the fourth on back-to­back 3-pointers from Shane Battier and James. The Bulls roared back, as they did for most of the day whenever the Heat seemed on the cusp of tak­ing control. 
They just never got the lead, despite Rose’s best efforts. 
“Two sick moves by D-Rose,” Oklahoma City’s Kevin Durant tweeted as he watched the game, marveling at two layups by Rose that knotted the game at 84. 
Insistence that this was “just another game” notwithstand­ing, Miami started quickly. Wade appeared a bit more emo­tionally charged than usual af­ter joining his teammates in the pregame huddle, and the Heat ran out to a fast early edge. 
Maybe it would be more accu­rate to say they “jumped” out to that lead. 
Wade set James up for three dunks in the first 7 minutes, the last of which is probably going to be replayed for quite a while. James appeared to be forgot­ten as he hovered on the weak side of the floor, so he darted to­ward the basket. Wade tossed a lob his way — and the two-time MVP leapfrogged the 5-foot-11 John Lucas for a dunk that put Miami up 16-7. 
Even the NBA took notice of that one: Within minutes, re­plays of the James dunk were sent out on the league’s Twitter feed. 

Chicago quickly settled down, getting within 24-22 at the end of the first quarter. But Miami scored 11 straight early in the second, the last seven of those coming with Wade and James both on the bench, to open a 35­24 edge. 
Wade’s first points came with 

6:14 left in the half, two free throws that gave Miami what was its biggest lead at 42-30. 
The Bulls chipped away again, and by halftime Miami’s edge was only 56-51. Wade missed eight of nine shots in the first half and an airball dropped him to 1 for 10 early in the third. 
Chicago had a chance for its first lead when Rose attacked the rim moments later. But his layup was blocked by Joel An­thony, and James threw about a 65-foot pass to Wade for a dunk. James found Wade again for another transition slam less than a minute later for a 63-58 advantage. 
The lead was still five enter­ing the fourth. James made a 20-footer over Brewer with 0.2 left in the third to push Miami’s edge to 76-71. 
Notes: James had a large 

icepack strapped  to  his  right  
shoulder  during  a  first-half  
stint of rest.  

He was grabbing at the shoul­der in pain early in the first quarter after a collision, but did not appear to have a serious issue. ... Boozer said he needed more than 20 tickets for the game. He’s been spending part of his offseasons in Miami for several years. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Time demands, scheduling Welcome to Orlando, where the we jam that slow, just like some FOR RENT PERSONAL WANTED flexible. music jam slow (Sanford O-town Texas folks switchin’ lanes baby) from Apopka, to the hills, Bithlo Stipend paid. Welcome to Orlando, Folk we off to Sanford, I claim it all as my the chain block. Some say thats absurd, but WALK TO CAMPUS UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t Business Research and Respond w/brief resume or This one right here is for the city I i represent my city ‘cause we the 
go it alone. Notre Dame has many Development South Bend Toy description of background as well luv, for all my folks in the O on the trealeast. There aint no place likeit. Great Specials! resources in place to assist you. Company LLC, a new startup, as availability. block ridin’ chrome. We got so much pride, in the club Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom If you or someone you love needs seeks students from a wide  I’m doin this thang for y’all, reppin blocks like ivey & mercy &amp;amp; Townhomes confidential support or assistance, range of disciplines including Orange County up to Seminole. drive. Black tees and orange available. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 A&amp;L, Mendoza, Science and Interviews late the week of January This for my dawgs west orange dickies we all reppin the choppy 
or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Engineering. 22nd and January 29th. county this for the 4 0 7, the 4 0 7 from east to west fifty. You can find 
(574) 272-8124. information, visit ND’s website at: Crank up the chevy baby, gotta hit me at j mart or magic mall. What ya 
Visit www.southbendtoy.com, for the block man. This how we do in got man? I got it all what ya know www.clovervillageapartments.com http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu more detail. Email woody@southbendtoy.com the O. We ride on chrome things bout the O-town hustle. 
ATP 



Djokovic claims Aussie title for third straight Grand Slam 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia 
—
 Novak Djokovic ripped off his shirt and let out a primal scream, flexing his torso the way a prize fighter would after a desperate, last-round knock­out. 

This was the final act in Djokovic’s 5-7, 6-4, 6-2, 6-7 (5), 7-5 victory over Rafael Nadal in the Australian Open final 

—
 a sweat-drenched, sneaker-squeaking 5 hour, 53-minute endurance contest that ended at 1:37 a.m. Monday morning in Melbourne. 


Djokovic overcame a break in the fifth set to win his fifth Grand Slam tournament and third in a row. None, though, quite like this. This one in­volved tears, sweat and, yes, even a little blood. It was the longest Grand Slam singles fi­nal in the history of pro tennis and it came against Nadal, the player who built a career on his tenacity — on outlasting oppo­nents in matches like these. 
“It was obvious on the court for everybody who has watched the match that both of us, phys­ically, we took the last drop of energy that we had from our bodies,” Djokovic said. “We made history tonight and un­fortunately there couldn’t be two winners.” 
When the drama was finally over at Rod Laver Arena, the 24-year-old Djokovic joined Laver, Pete Sampras, Roger Federer and Nadal as the only men who have won three con­secutive majors since the Open Era began in 1968. Nadal was his vanquished opponent in all three. 
Djokovic will go for the “Nole Slam” at Roland Garros in May. 
As the players waited for the trophy presentation, Nad­al leaned on the net, while Djokovic sat on his haunches. Eventually, a nearby official took pity and they were given chairs and bottles of water. 
Nadal held his composure during the formalities, and even opened his speech with a lighthearted one-liner. 
“Good morning, everybody,” he said. 
A few minutes earlier, af­ter hugging Nadal at the net, Djokovic tore off his sweat-soaked black shirt and headed toward his players’ box, pump­ing his arms repeatedly as he roared. He walked over to his girlfriend, his coach and the rest of his support team and banged on the advertising signs at the side of the court. 
“I think it was just the mat­ter of maybe luck in some mo­ments and matter of wanting this more than maybe other player in the certain point,” Djokovic said. “It’s just in­credible effort. You’re in pain, you’re suffer(ing). You’re trying to activate your legs. You’re go­ing through so much suffering your toes are bleeding. Every­thing is just outrageous, but you’re still enjoying that pain.” 
The match was full of long rallies and amazing gets. Djokovic finished with 57 win­ners, along with 69 unforced errors. Nadal had 44 winners against 71 unforced errors. 
Laver was part of the 15,000-strong crowd when the players walked on at 7:30 p.m. 

Sunday to flip the coin and start the warmup. He was still there, along with most of the crowd, after 2 a.m. for the tro­phy presentations. 
Djokovic called it the most special of his five Grand Slam wins. 
“This one I think comes out on the top because just the fact that we played almost six hours is incredible, incred­ible,” he said. “I think it’s prob-ably the longest finals in the history of all Grand Slams, and just to hear that fact is making me cry, really. 

“I’m very proud just to be part of this history.” 
It went so long because Nadal refused to yield. He was trying to avoid becoming the first man to lose three consecutive Grand Slam finals — and seeing his losing streak in finals stretch to seven against Djokovic, who beat him for the Wimbledon and U.S. Open titles and took his No. 1 ranking last year. 

After a grueling four-set loss to Djokovic at Flushing Mead­ows last year, Nadal said that, indeed, he may have found a slight opening — a glimmer of hope for next time against the player who dominated the 2011 season and had dismantled him time and again over the year. 
NHL 



Team Chara prevails in high-scoring NHL All-Star game 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA — Marian Gaborik made New York Rangers team­mate Henrik Lundqvist pay for not selecting him to play for Daniel Alfredsson’s team in the NHL All-Star game. 
Gaborik beat Lundqvist twice in the first period, fin­ished with three goals and an assist, and earned MVP hon­ors in leading Team Chara to a 12-9 win over Team Alfreds­son on Sunday. and Corey Perry broke the 


Tim Thomas made 18 saves game open by scoring three in the final period, and ex-times in a span of 1:22 that tended his record by winning put their club ahead 11-8 with his fourth All-Star game. 6:34 remaining. 
Chara, with the eventual Despite the loss, Alfreds­winning goal, Marian Hossa son rewarded his hometown fans by leading his team with two goals and an assist. The Senators captain also hinted afterward that he is consider­ing coming back for one more season. 

In an interview broadcast on the arena’s scoreboard, Al­fredsson was asked about his future. 
With a smile on his face, and fans cheering his name, Alfredsson said: “Fifty per­cent yes, and my wife’s going to have to decide the other 50.” 
Henrik Sedin had a goal and two assists for Team Alfreds­son. 
Gaborik became the 16th player to score at least three goals — one short of matching the record — in the All-Star game, and first since Rick Nash had three in 2008. 
The outcome was decided in the final period, in which Team Chara outscored Team Alfredsson 6-3. 
Hossa broke an 8-8 tie by scoring on a partial break­away after being set up by Pav­el Datsyuk with 7:56 left. Set­tling the puck, Hossa stopped in front and then backhanded a shot past Brian Elliott. 
Chara gave his club a 10-8 lead when Gaborik fed him a perfect pass into the middle for a snap shot past Elliott. 
For Team Chara, Hossa and Jarome Iginla had a goal and two assists, and Joffrey Lupul scored twice. 

NCAA BASKETBALL 


Ohio State pulls away late to top Wolverines 

Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Michigan coach John Beilein was already anticipating the rematch. 
“It goes both ways, but we’ll be looking forward to that,” Beilein said after No. 4 Ohio State hung a 64-49 loss on his 20th-ranked Wolverines on Sunday. “We circle every game on the calendar.” 
The Wolverines (16-6, 6-3 Big Ten) were in the thick of things until Ohio State (19-3, 7-2) went on a 14-2 second-half run that broke the game open. 
“Things we could control a lit­tle bit — standing in there, tak­ing a charge instead of backing away and hitting somebody le­gally in a box out — could have made a big difference in this game,” he said. “The good news is we can control those things in the future, hopefully.” 
“The bad news is we didn’t do them today and that really helped Ohio State get the lead in the first half and then take it away in the second half.” 
Tim  Hardaway  Jr.  had  15  
points  for  the  Wolverines.  
Trey  Burke,  the  conference’s  

top freshman point guard, re­turned to his hometown to play for the first time against Sull­inger, his former high school teammate, and finished with 13 points, five assists, two steals and five turnovers. 
“Trey’s a great player,” said Ohio State counterpart Aaron Craft, who had seven points, four assists and three steals. “He’s one of those guys you want to have on your team. You know he’s going to be in attack mode all the whole game. It was definitely a great team effort on him.” 
It was a teaching moment for the freshman, according to Beilein. 
“He did a really good job for a 19-year-old kid in this situ­ation,” he said. “I’m sure we’ll look at the video and we’ll say, ‘All right, let’s learn from this thing.’ He’ll look at it and learn.” 
Lenzelle Smith Jr. scored 17 points and had a career-high 12 rebounds to lead the Buck­eyes. All-America forward Jared Sullinger was limited by foul trouble but had 13 points. William Buford and Deshaun Thomas each had 12 for Ohio State, which ran its winning streak over its archrival to six straight. 
Ohio State focused on go­ing inside far more than the Wolverines did. Maybe that explains the disparity in free throws. 
The Buckeyes finished 15 of 18 at the line while Michigan didn’t shoot a free throw until there were just over 2 minutes left, making 3 of 4 for the game. 
NBA 


Bryant, Lakers tear up T’Wolves 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Kobe Bry­ant had 35 points and 14 re­bounds and Pau Gasol scored 28 to give the Los Angeles Lakers a much-needed road victory, 106­101 over the Minnesota Timber-wolves on Sunday night. 
Andrew Bynum added 21 points for the Lakers, who won for just the second time in nine road games this season. They led by 18 in the third quarter, then withstood a furious Tim­berwolves charge to hang on for their second victory in six games. 
Kevin Love had 33 points and 13 rebounds and Michael Beasley added 18 points and 12 boards for the Wolves, who lost to the Lakers for the 16th straight time. 
Minnesota led 94-93 with 3:19 to play, but the Lakers’ size was too much down the stretch. By­num threw down two dunks and Bryant slithered into the lane for two clutch jumpers to turn back the young Wolves. 
The Lakers staggered into Target Center on Sunday night with four losses in five games and an ugly 1-7 mark on the road. Their struggling offense in new coach Mike Brown’s first season had failed to top 100 points in 13 straight games, the club’s longest streak since the shot clock was implemented in 1954. 
But the Lakers shot 50 percent from the field and 42 percent from 3-point range against the Wolves. 
What had been a sleeper of a game turned into a heart-pounder in the final 17 minutes. 
The Lakers were in complete control midway through the third quarter, shooting 55 per­cent and suffocating the young Wolves offense. Bryant was feel­ing it, yapping at Wes Johnson after drilling a 3-pointer right in his grill and Gasol’s layup gave the Lakers a 73-55 lead with 5 minutes to play in the period. 
Ricky Rubio had just one point, two assists and two rebounds at that point, and the Wolves were unable to get anything going outside of Love’s typically effi­cient night. 
Then Wolves coach Rick Adel-man switched to a zone defense and Beasley and Anthony Ran­dolph added some much-needed energy to rally the team. Martell Webster hit a 3, Randolph threw down an alley-oop from Rubio and the Spanish rookie finished a 19-6 quarter-closing surge with a running bank shot to cut the Lakers’ lead to 79-74 head­ing into the fourth. 
Rubio’s pull-up jumper tied the game at 89 with 6 minutes to play. 
But the Lakers finally started using their size to find holes in the zone and overpower the un­dersized Wolves. 
Gasol had an awful night in Milwaukee, shooting 6 of 18. But he was sharp from the start against the Wolves, hitting his first four and scoring 14 on 6-for­8 shooting in the first quarter. 


NBA 



Nowitzki returns, Mavs win 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Jason Terry was more than willing to take the big shots, with Dirk Nowitzki just getting back into the Dallas Mavericks’ lineup. Terry made them when they mattered, too. 
Terry scored the last four points in overtime, after hitting a tying 15-footer with a half-second remaining in regula­tion, and the Mavericks came back after blowing a big lead against San Antonio’s reserves to beat the Spurs 101-100 Sun­day night. 
“He put us on his shoulders there,” said Nowitzki, who played for the first time after a four-game hiatus to strengthen his sore right knee and do some conditioning work. “He made some great pull-ups. He got to his sweet spot to send it to OT.” 
Terry put Dallas ahead to stay when he took a pass from Nowitzki and made a 12-foot baseline jumper with 42 sec­onds left to make it 99-98. Af­ter Shawn Marion stole the ball from Gary Neal, Terry got fouled and made both free throws with 17 seconds left. 
“It’s just the will to win when the game is on the line,” Terry said. “I like to take the shot when the game is on the line. ... When my team needs me the most, I’m going to come through regardless of what’s going on the entire night. Fourth quar­ter is winning time.” 
Terry scored 26 of his sea­son-high 34 points after half­time, though the Spurs still had a chance after his last two free throws. 
Neal, who finished with 19 points, drove for a layup and was fouled by Marion with 12 seconds left. But Neal missed a potential tying free throw that was rebounded by Ian Mahin­mi, who was fouled and missed two free throw attempts. 

After Neal got that rebound and the Spurs called timeout, Vince Carter knocked the ball loose. Danny Green grabbed it and threw up a 3-pointer that ricocheted off the front of the rim as the game ended. 
Green and the Spurs thought he had a game-winner at the end of regulation, but his 14-footer was disallowed when replay clearly showed that shot didn’t get out of his hands be­fore the buzzer sounded. 
“I thought it was good, but I guess it was too good to be true,” Green said. 
Dallas led by as many as 18 points in the third quarter be­fore San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich decided to go with his reserves. The Spurs’ last 51 points after that came from bench players, and they went ahead by as many as nine in the fourth quarter with the help of a flurry of 3-pointers. 
“We were just on fire shoot­ing 3s and it got us back in the game. It’s as simple as that. I thought the energy defensively was great; we double-teamed everywhere,” Popovich said. “They were playing great. There’s no sense in taking them off the court.” 
The last Spurs starter to score was Richard Jefferson on a 3-pointer with 4:28 left in the third quarter. When Jefferson came out less than 2 minutes later, the only starter to re-en­ter the game was Kawhi Leon­ard for 1.1 seconds in overtime. 
Terry’s tying shot at the end of regulation was set up after Rodrigue Beaubois, starting for injured Jason Kidd, drove for a layup with 30 seconds left and then blocked a shot on a drive by Neal. Nowitzki grabbed the rebound and got the ball to Terry. 
San Antonio still had a chance to win the game. Green swished his jumper off the in­bound pass, but officials looked at the replay before ruling it didn’t count and sending the game to overtime. 
“We got a little lucky there,” Nowitzki said. “I thought it was over.” 
Carter had 21 points, his most with the Mavericks, while Beaubois had 14. Nowitzki had 10 points on 5-of-14 shooting with 13 rebounds. 
“I’m moving better,” Nowitz­ki said. “Definitely that was an improvement from before. I’m going to keep working and get back to normal soon.” 
Richard Jefferson, Tim Dun­can and Green each had 12 points for the Spurs. 
Dallas (13-8) took over the Southwest Division lead, ahead of Houston (12-8) and the Spurs (12-9). 
The Mavericks had a 67-49 lead after Terry’s basket with 
3:48 left in the third quarter. That’s when San Antonio’s re­serves took over. 
There were seven consecu­tive points to cut the gap, that capped by Matt Bonner’s 3-pointer that helped ignite a frenzy of 3-pointers. 
San Antonio opened the fourth quarter with a 17-2 surge that included five 3-pointers. Bonner’s trey from the right wing with 8:24 left in regulation put the Spurs up 75­71. 



Alaska 
continued from page 20 
seman Robbie Russo and center Garrett Peterson fed winger Aus­tin Wuthrich, who equalized the score from the right face-off spot. 
The two teams traded goals into the second period before the Na-nooks took the game over with three unassisted goals on the spectacular play of sophomore forward Cody Ku­nyk. 
Kunyk scored a power-play goal five minutes into the period and as­sisted a goal three minutes later to make the score 4-2 and chase the Alaksa native Summerhays from the contest. Junior netminder Mike Johnson entered, but surrendered another goal to Kunyk on the second shot he saw in the period to make the score 5-2. Though senior forward and captain Billy Maday added a third goal for the Irish on a five-on­three power play, the offensive out­burst from Kunyk was too much to handle, and the Irish fell 6-3. 
The next night, with Johnson in goal, the Irish turned around a two-game losing streak by holding Alaska to 17 shots and winning a 4-2 decision. Notre Dame gave up two goals on the first two Nanook shots of the day but had four goals from four separate goal-scorers to earn a cru­cial three points in the CCHA. 

Junior winger Nick Larson scored the game’s opener early in the first period on a power play, but the Na-nooks answered quickly with two goals to take a 2-1 lead. Goals from sophomore center T.J. Tynan, sopho­more defenseman Stephen Johns and junior center Riley Sheahan an­swered the Nanook lead and sepa­rated the Irish for good on a night where temperatures outside the arena reached 50-below zero. 
With the weekend split, the Irish sit in sixth place in the CCHA with 33 points, just four points behind first-place Ferris State. Of the five teams ahead of Notre Dame, three —Ohio State, Lake Superior State and Miami (OH) — have played two more games. 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson and his squad will be back underway next weekend with a golden opportu­nity to pick up points in a home se­ries with bottom-dwelling Bowling Green, a team that has only won three games in CCHA play. 
SMC BASKETBALL 



Saint Mary’s falls short against MIAA foe Hope 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s came up just short Saturday night, losing a closely contested game to Hope 77-73. 
Senior guard Patsy Mahoney had a chance to tie the game late, but her 25-foot 3-point at­tempt hit off the back of the rim and the Belles came up short. 
Saint Mary’s (9-11, 5-6 MIAA) started the game off strong, using an 11-0 run to open up a nine-point lead in the first half, culminating with a layup by senior forward Kelley Mur­phy. The Belles took their larg­est lead of the game with 1:56 remaining in the first half on a put-back attempt by Murphy, giving the home team a 36-26 advantage. 
The second half was a differ­ent story, as Hope started the half on a 21-1 scoring run as the Flying Dutch opened up an 11 point lead, scoring on nine straight possessions. 
Hope stretched its lead to 15, its largest lead of the game, on a three-point shot with 10:37 left in the contest. 

The Belles battled back hard, using an 11-3 run to bring the game within six points with just over three minutes left in the contest. 
Senior guard Maggie Ronan hit a jump shot to cut the lead to five with 1:34 left on the clock. 
After a Hope bucket, Murphy cut the lead to 76-73 with bas­kets on consecutive trips down the floor with 40 seconds re­maining. 
The Belles came up with a de­fensive stop on Hope’s next pos­session, leading to Mahoney’s game tying attempt with less than 15 seconds remaining. 
Saint Mary’s was led in scor­ing by Murphy, who finished with 20 points; Ronan, who had 16 points; and Mahoney, who added 13 points and eight as­sists. 
Saint Mary’s next takes the court against Albion on Wednes­day at 6 pm. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 


MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 


Irish fall behind on Senior Night 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Despite setting a new pool re­cord, the Irish struggled to com­pete with Iowa in a 216-154 loss in the Shamrock Invitational on Senior Night. 
Irish freshman Zachary Ste­phens recorded a time of 2:00.59 in the 200-yard breaststroke Saturday, officially inking his name into the Rolfs Aquatic Center re­
“To break a pool record at Notre Dame is pretty impres­sive because we have had a lot of talented teams come through here,” he said. “Being a fresh­man, he’s got a couple years to top that.” 
Dyer earned gold in the 200­yard freestyle with a time of 
1:37.50. This time qualifies as a NCAA B-cut, meaning Dyer will have a chance to compete in the 
NCAA champi­onships. Dyer added an ad-

cord books. “[It was] good to see the ditional first-Stephens place finish in 
camaraderie we have on 
surpassed the 100-yard 
this team. It was sad, 
the previous freestyle with 
I’m going to be honest. 
pool record of a time of 44.47. 
Your parents are there, 
2:01.01, which “I was pret­
and you get to send your 
was set in ty happy with 1998. seniors off the right way. how things 
Irish sopho-We all know when the last went with this more Frank race was for everyone, meet, espe-Dyer said the so we gave them all a cially so close f resh ma n ’s nice little applause.” to the Big East 
accomplish-[champion ­
ment did not come as a sur­prise to the  Frank Dyer Irish sophomore  ships]. eryone a little  Ev-was tired,  
young leader.  and it kind of  
“A  lot  of  showed,”  Dyer  
people  were  said. “I had to  

kind of shocked, but I wasn’t re-buckle down and say, ‘I’m still ally [surprised]. Zach is a quiet going to race and do my best. guy with a quiet confidence,” he [The performance on day one] said. “He came out and didn’t kind of brought a chip on my tell anybody, but he had it in his shoulder for the next day. A lot mind. He was kind of expecting of the guys showed a lot of prom-it, but he didn’t know he would ise. We needed that one race be-do it.” fore we went to [the champion-
Dyer said the feat is difficult to ships].” achieve, considering the talent Irish freshmen Nick Nemetz that has passed through Rolfs and Michael Kreft recorded Aquatic Center. second and third place finish­es, respectively, on the 3-meter boards. 
The 800-yard freestyle relay team of Dyer and juniors Bill Bass, John McGinley and Kevin Overholt also earned an NCAA B-cut. 
Dyer said this particular se­nior day differed from last year’s because not all of the seven Irish seniors will move on to Big East competition. 
“Yesterday was their last meet 
— forever — I guess,” he said. “[It was] good to see the cama­raderie we have on this team. It was sad, I’m going to be hon­est. Your parents are there, and you get to send your seniors off the right way. We all knew when the last race was for everyone, so we gave them all a nice little applause.” 
While the team’s focus is on postseason competition, Dyer said the underclassmen have learned from the senior class and have high expectations for next season. 
“Next year we’ll definitely have a lot of good guys return­ing,” he said. “We’ll be much stronger next year because a lot of guys who are going to [the championships] will be return­ing. While we are focused right now on [the championships], we have a bright future and a lot of guys returning.” 
Notre Dame will take on a wide field of competitors at the Big East championships on Feb. 10. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 



ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 


Shamrock Invite gives mixed results 
By ANDREW CARDOZA 
Sports Writer 
On the final day of competition at the Shamrock Invitational, the Irish won a pair of events and finished second in seven events at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The Irish (5-6) knocked off Iowa 201­169 but fell to Ohio State 214-147 to conclude a split on the week­end home stand. 
Junior diver Jenny Chiang 
“I think a lot of mental prepa­ration is important in order to be successful in diving,” Chiang said. “Before each of my dives, I try to visualize what I want my dive to look like and gain a sense of what it feels like.” 
Notre Dame also earned top finishes from freshman Emma Reaney and Bridget Casey. Re­aney won the 200-meter breast-

had a very suc-“I think this invitational cessful week-really gave us an end. A day after opportunity to earning a victo-test our abilities 
ry in the three-

under pressure.” 
meter dive, she followed her 

Jenny Chiang 
performance with a second Irish junior diver place finish in the one-meter dive with a cu-stroke by over three seconds. Her time pro­duced an NCAA B-cut time of 
2:16.16. Her counterpart, Bridget Casey, was victorious in the 200-meter butterfly with at time of 2:07.71. This was Casey’s fourth victory of the season. 
of us to perform at our highest level.” 
Even though the Irish did not gain the complete sweep on the home stand, there was a lot of progress made through individ­ual performances. Sophomore Kelly Ryan finished second in the 100-meter (50.76) and 200-meter 
(1:52.30) freestyle events. The 400-meter freestyle relay team of Ryan, senior Amy Prestinario, freshman Suzanne Bessire and Reaney concluded the night with a silver-medal performance by turning in a NCAA B-cut time of 3:24.43. 
“As a collective team, we really made it a point to cheer for each other during races,” Chiang said. “Every race counted, and we all realized that as much as this is an individual sport, the support of the team can really make a difference.” 
Notre Dame closes out the regular season next Saturday when it heads to Muncie, Indi­ana, to take on Ball State. The dual meet begins at 1 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Cardoza at acardoza@nd.edu 



MEN’S TENNIS 


Notre Dame earns one win at ITA Kick-Off 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 

The No. 28 Irish started their weekend with a disap­pointing 6-1 loss to No. 29 Indiana on Saturday before rebounding with a 4-2 vic­tory over No. 44 Cornell on Sunday in the consolation match of the ITA Kick-Off Weekend in Columbus, Ohio. 
Notre Dame (4-2) began Saturday with hopes of de­feating a fellow top-30 op­ponent and earning a bid to play against host No. 3 Ohio State, who defeated Cornell to earn a spot in the championship game. Unfor­tunately, the Irish couldn’t muster a solid effort against the Hoosiers (3-2). 
“We didn’t play well in doubles to get off on the right foot, and then in sin­gles we lost the matches I thought we were capable of winning,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “I certainly want to give Indiana credit. They fought awfully hard. It wasn’t our best match.” 
The poor play against the Hoosiers continued early in the match against Cornell (2-2). However, after the slow start, the Irish turned it around to defeat the Big Red. 
“Today, I think we began the match, to a certain ex­tent, feeling a little sorry for ourselves and we allowed ourselves to get into a pret­ty big hole against Cornell, who has a really good young team,” Bayliss said. “The thing I was most proud of to­day was that we fought back from a deficit, and we were in a position where I think they were close to closing out the match. We saw some poise and emotional ma­turity from a couple of our guys that is very encourag­ing right now.” 
Sophomore Greg Andrews continued his strong season with a straight-sets victory over Sam Fleck to remain undefeated on the year. Se­nior Sam Keeton and juniors Blas Moros and Michael Moore also won singles matches for the Irish, with Keeton and Moros winning in three sets. 
The tenacity shown by the Irish after falling behind was impressive, Bayliss said. 
“In sports, you learn a lot about character. We were in a position today where we had been kicked in the teeth and it would have been easy to roll over,” Bayl­iss said. “But particularly Sam Keeton and Blas Moros showed lots of poise under [duress] and were able to come through for us.” 
The Irish take the courts next with a trip to North Carolina to play Wake For­est on Friday and Duke on Sunday. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


mulative score of 281.70. Chi­ang was followed by freshman Allison Casareto, who finished fourth with 268.50 points. 
Chiang credits her success to mental preparation and visual­ization outside of the pool. 
“I think this invitational really gave us an opportunity to test our abilities under pressure,” Chiang said. “We got great per­formances from our underclass­men. The meet versus Iowa was very close and required each 



Sweep 
continued from page 20 
against Case Western. The women’s sabre squad carried the Irish, totaling a record of 99-9 over the 12 matches. 
Junior Danielle Guilfoyle led the charge with a record of 22-2. Freshmen Channing Foster and Nicole Ameli, who compiled 20-3 and 15-1 re­cords, respectively, led the epee unit. 
Bednarski said he was par­ticularly pleased with the improvement shown by his young freshmen in their sec­ond tournament after making their debut in New York last weekend. 
“It’s nice to see underclass­men like Foster and Ameli perform as they did,” Bednar­ski said. “They made a great step forward [Saturday]. In New York they were a little nervous, as it was their first time. You could tell there was a lot of nervousness. But [this weekend] they showed they can be counted on as very im­portant fencers.” 
Another underclassman, sophomore Adriana Camacho, paced the female foilists with a perfect 15-0 mark on the day, which highlighted the 94­14 total for the women’s foil. 
Sunday, when the men’s team (24-5) took to the strip, was much of the same, as the men picked up right where the women left off. 
“The women did a great job [Saturday], and the boys did not want to do any worse,” Bednarski said. 
The Irish started the day with a 25-2 beat down of Pur­due and never looked back, hitting the 20-point mark in 11 of 12 matchups. 
The men were led by the sa­breurs, who finished the day with a 100-8 record, includ­ing a 35-1 start to the Duals. As with the women’s side, the men’s team featured under­classmen who came through with strong showings. 

“We’re definitely seeing a lot of progression,” Bednarski said. “We had several under­classmen who won some im­portant bouts under pressure against good opponents. It’s a good sign because now we know that eventually [the un­derclassmen] will [grow into] very valuable fencers.” 
In addition to the sabreurs, Bednarski was pleased with the performance of a pair of freshmen epeeists. 
“Albert He was fighting very bravely for us,” Bednar­ski said. “Another freshman, Ryan McDonough, was also competing strongly. They aren’t yet what I would call great fencers, but with more experience they can [reach that level].” 

While the Irish are pleased with the victories, the team knows there is still work to be done, Bednarski said. 
“We need to keep working hard,” Bednarski said. “We need to prepare new leaders who will take the responsibil­ity during the very tough mo­ments and show the necessary confidence to bring us back.” 
The Irish hit the strip next over the weekend when they travel to Evanston, Ill., for the Northwestern Duals. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S TENNIS 




Irish sweep Maryland after 4-3 loss to Yale 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
After suffering a 4-3 set­back to Yale on Saturday in Ann Arbor, Mich., the Irish turned their momentum around against Maryland on Sunday with an easy 7-0 vic­tory to close out the weekend. 
The No. 21 Irish had a rough start to the weekend against No. 35 Yale, dropping the doubles point right off the bat. The No. 5 duo of seniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews came out of the gate early with a victory over the No. 16 duo of Vicky Brook and Hanna Yu. However, the Irish lost their momentum when the No. 25 duo of sophomore Britney Sanders and fresh­man Katherine White dropped their match 9-7, and junior Chrissie McGaffigan and sophomore Jennifer Kellner fell 8-4. 
“Losing that doubles point is so crucial in college tennis,” Mathews said. “That lack of energy we had was crucial going into sin-

The Irish were unable to take the win, however. Frill­ing, McGaffigan and White each dropped their matches in two sets, and Yale won 4-3. 
On Sunday, the Irish came out determined to turn their fortunes around. Though Frill­ing and Mathews fell at the top doubles spot to Ana Belzunce and Welma Luus out of Mary­land, Notre Dame was able to claim the doubles point. 
Going into singles, Kellner and Sanders got two quick singles points with quick, straight-set victories, brining the Irish to a 3-0 lead. White then went on to clinch the Notre Dame win with her 6-2, 6-4 defeat of Mikele Irazustu. 
“Katherine did a really good job today against Maryland,” Mathews said. “It was her first career clinch, which was probably the highlight of the weekend.” 
Mathews closed out the day in the top singles spot, only her third career appearance in the leading singles posi­tion. Mathews embraced the position and 
gles because “No matter who you defeated No. 25 they had the Cristina Stancu 
are playing, they’re 
momentum.” 6-2, 6-4. 
going to work just as 
Singles play “No mat-
hard as you are.” 
did not pro-ter who you duce much bet-are playing, ter results for Shannon Mathews they’re going Notre Dame. Irish senior to work just 

Mathews earned the first point for the Irish with her 6-0, 6-4 de­feat over Seideman. The last two Irish points were earned by Kellner, who won 6-4, 6-2, and Sanders, who secured the final Irish point of the day with a 4-6, 6-2, 6-0 victory. 
“We really got a great week­end from Britney Sanders,” Mathews said. “She played really well coming back from being down a set against Yale. That was huge for us to stay in the match and have her take it to three sets and keep us hanging on.” 
as hard as you 
are,” Mathews 

said. “You have great opponents, no matter what position you play in the lineup. You have to go into ev­ery match focused. If you are thinking about your position, you are not really focusing on your game and focusing on what you need to be success­ful.” 
Notre Dame will face off against the Tennessee on Fri­day at 4 p.m. before heading to Vanderbilt on Sunday. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 



Relays 
continued from page 20 
their respective events. Ju­nior thrower Anthony Thom­as finished third in the weight throw with his mark of 17.4 meters, and senior middle-distance runner Mitchell Lorenz took third as well in the 600-meter race. Junior middle-distance runner Jeff MacMillan recorded the high­est finish of the day for the Irish by coming in second in the 3,000-meter run. 
On the second day of the meet, Notre Dame earned its first victory of the week­end in the men’s 400-meter dash, when Feeney edged out Notre Dame freshman sprint­er Chris Giesting for an Irish one-two finish. 
Feeney’s victory opened up the floodgates for the Irish, who finished strong and cap­tured victories in three out of the four relay events. Notre Dame swept the 800-meter relays, as the women’s team captured the victory with nearly a 10-second cushion and the men’s team took first place by almost eight sec­onds. 
In the last event of the weekend, the Irish won the 400-meter relay, edging out Division II Ashland Universi­ty by only .24 seconds. Feeney and Giesting ran the final two legs of the event and sealed what was a thrilling, come-from-behind victory for the Irish. 

“In the [400-meter relay], we had really good competi­tion,” Feeney said. “[Ashland] got out and ran really hard, and we just kind of went off of them and ran a really good time.” 
Especially since [the 400-meter relay] is the last event, our whole team gets into it and they are lining up the final curve. Everybody started getting really loud when we were coming around and passing people, so that pumps you up even more to run.” 
Freshmen football players George Atkinson III and Josh Atkinson, as well as sopho­more football player Ben­nett Jackson, competed with the Irish for the first time. The Atkinson brothers both qualified for the semifinals of the 60-meter dash, com­ing in seventh and twelfth, respectively. George Atkin­son III qualified for the finals and earned a seventh-place finish. 
The meet was a perfect opportunity for the Irish to showcase their improvement across the board, Feeney said. 

“Our sprint team is defi­nitely improved from last year on the men’s side, even on the women’s side as well,” he said. “I think in the past few years the sprint team … hasn’t scored many points at Big East [competitions], but I think this year we are really stepping up. And the distance team, they are definitely run­ning good as well. As a team as a whole, we are a lot better than we were a year ago.” 
Notre Dame will return to action when it hosts the Meyo Invitational on Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


Diggins 
continued from page 20 
Diggins led the Irish with 24 points and six assists in the victory, and Peters helped to fill out the stat sheet as well. The veteran forward scored 18 points, brought down 15 re­bounds and added five blocks and four steals. 
Peters led what was an im­pressive performance on the boards for Notre Dame, as the team pulled in 49 rebounds to Saint John’s 29. Saturday’s win was the just the most re­cent example of Peter’s cur­rent stretch of dominance, as she grabbed a career-high 16 rebounds against then-No. 7 Tennessee on Jan. 23. 
“I think the biggest differ­ence is that I’ve been in the game and not fouling as much,” Peters said. “When you’re in the game, you have more op­portunities to score and re­bound and do everything that the coaches ask me to do.” 
For all of the Irish play­ers, capturing a win at Saint John’s Carnesecca Arena rep­resents uncharted territory. Notre Dame’s last victory in the building came on Feb. 17, 2004. The Red Storm captured all three of the most recent meetings in their building, in­cluding an upset of then-No. 4 Notre Dame in 2010, prior to Saturday’s win. 
“For three-straight trips we haven’t been able to come up with a win,” McGraw said. “No one on our team has won in Carnesecca Arena before, so this was an important game for us to come out and take care of business that we haven’t been able to do in the past.” 
And although it wasn’t a picture perfect victory for the Irish, much of the credit for that goes to Saint John’s, Mc­Graw said. 
“I think Saint John’s is a great and really talented team,” she said. “They made us play ugly today.” 
The win over the Red Storm was Notre Dame’s 18th straight victory, but snapped a stretch of five consecutive wins of 20 points or more. The minor set­back gives the Irish a chance to evaluate their progress thus far into the season. 
“I think we’re on track on where we thought we’d be,” Diggins said. “There are a lot of things we can get better on and we work on that in prac­tice. This is a team [that] has a mindset of getting better everyday, and we challenge each other in practice to do so. We have a lot of work to do. This team isn’t compla­cent. Coach [McGraw] keeps us on our toes. I think we’re on track; I still don’t think we’ve played our best basket­ball yet.” 

The Irish will return to ac­tion when they travel back to the tri-state area to face off with No. 11 Rutgers on Tuesday for another Big East matchup. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


Huskies 
continued from page 20 
Dubbed the BW Parkway guards by Brey, Grant and sophomore guard Eric Atkins carried the Irish and controlled the offensive tempo, each log­ging 38 minutes and combin­ing for 24 points and nine as­sists. After trailing 24-21 at halftime, the duo led the Irish on a 13-0 run to start the sec­ond half, as Notre Dame held the Huskies scoreless for the first seven minutes of the half. 
“Those are two games where Jerian has done a good job on Lamb and then no one could really guard Jerian,” Brey said. “Atkins and Grant are really growing into men, and I am so excited about their job in league [play].” 
At one point in the second half, the Irish kept possession for 1:27 straight, capitalizing on two of their 11 offensive re­bounds while running the shot clock down to single digits on each possession. But Connecti­cut cut the lead to four with over four minutes left behind the strong play of freshman center Andre Drummond, who recorded a double-double with 15 points and 11 rebounds. 
Up 40-38 with 4:32 left, At­kins missed a 3-pointer, but Grant silenced the crowd by intercepting Drummond’s out­let pass and dishing it to junior forward Jack Cooley for an authoritative slam and a four-point lead. 
In the first half, UConn and Notre Dame each juggled the lead before the Huskies went on a 7-0 run with just over five minutes left in the half behind five straight points from Lamb. Despite the return of freshman guard Ryan Boatright from an NCAA suspension over eligibility issues, the Huskies couldn’t get their outside shooting game go­ing, only hitting three of 13 from beyond the arc. 

Senior forward Scott Martin added ten points, including a 3-pointer that extended the Irish lead to 10 with 13:07 left in the game. But Martin’s contribution to the Irish win went beyond his clutch shooting to his poise in key moments down the stretch. 
With nine minutes left in the first half, Martin drove the lane and pulled up for a jump shot, but was stripped of the ball with three seconds left on the shot clock. In mid-air, Martin tipped the ball to sophomore guard Alex Dragicevich, who threw a no-look, one-handed touch pass to Cooley for a layup as the shot clock expired. 
“They had two Drummond on Martin a lot, and [Martin] had a big play with the three to give us a ten point lead,” Brey said. 
But we definitely want to bottle this feeling and get a little rest because we have another tough big East team coming in.” 
After snapping its six-game losing streak at the XL Center, Notre Dame will have the week off before hosting No. 14 Mar­quette on Saturday in the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 

HOROSCOPE 



CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 


HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles,one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 


KNBIR  

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
TLORL ONNTED ASPUDE  

A: 

(Answers Monday) Jumbles: BRAVE TWIRL OUTLET BIOPSYYesterday’s 
Answer: The prince signed the book deal so he could get — ROYALTIES 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic ye ar 
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, January 30, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Holding off the Huskies 
Notre Dame wins third straight Big East game, climbs to 3rd place 

By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Revenge is a dish best served on the road. 
After No. 19 Connecticut end­ed Notre Dame’s 29-game home winning streak Jan. 14, the Irish stole a 50-48 victory at the XL Center in Hartford, Conn., to add to the Huskies’ recent woes. The upset completes a colossal week for the Irish who stunned then-No. 1 Syracuse at Purcell Pavilion on Jan. 21 and handed Seton Hall its first home loss Wednesday. 
“I’m so proud of our group and what we are becoming,” Irish coach Mike Brey said in a post-game interview with und.com. 
“We are playing well and play­ing well at the right time. These three wins against these oppo­nents put us in a spot [to work our way] into the NCAA tourna­ment.” 
Sophomore guard Jerian Grant knocked down two free throws late to give Notre Dame (14-8, 6-3 Big East) a five-point lead, but Connecticut sophomore forward Jeremy Lamb, who led the Hus­kies (14-6, 4-4) with 16 points, hit an off-balance 3-pointer to cut the Irish lead to two. After Grant made one of his two free throws, he alertly fouled Lamb before the preseason All-American could shoot a potential game-tying 3-pointer with 2.3 seconds re­maining in the game. 

After hitting his first free throw, Lamb — who injured his back early in the first half 
— missed the second and got his own rebound. His potential game-tying putback glanced off the rim as the Irish celebrated their third consecutive upset victory. 
“We haven’t fouled as much in that situation,” Brey said. “But we fouled and [Lamb] missed the second shot, but we were active enough to force a tough shot after the rebound. Next time I think we will play it out.” 
see HUSKIES/page 18 
HOCKEY 

Nanooks trouble goaltenders 
Observer Staff Report 
A tale of two games unfolded for the Irish in the far Northwest this weekend as No. 4 Notre Dame split a pair of games with Alaska. Notre Dame fell 6-3 on Friday night before coming from behind to take Saturday’s contest 4-2. 
The Irish (15-10-3, 10-7-3-0 CCHA) and the Nanooks (9-13­4, 6-12-4-2 CCHA) opened the series with a tentative first pe­riod in the Friday night contest. The two teams struggled to put shots on net before Alaska for­ward Jarret Granberg opened the scoring 14 minutes into the contest with an unassisted goal off Irish sophomore goal­keeper Steven Summerhays’ glove. The Irish responded just three minutes with the help of three freshmen as defen­

see ALASKA/page 15 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish win four events at Relay Meet 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Facing tough competition and a large field at the Indiana Re­lays over the weekend, the Irish put forth an impressive perfor­mance highlighted by four vic­tories. 
The annual meet attracted a number of schools to Bloom­ington for events on both Friday and Saturday in what is one of the most competitive meets the Irish compete in every year. The Indiana Relays came on the heels of the Notre Dame Invita­tional, during which the Irish hosted four teams and captured six victories last weekend. 
“I thought [the competition at the Indiana Relays] was really good,” sophomore sprinter Pat­rick Feeney said. “It was kind of a step up from the meet last week. Last week we didn’t have that good of competition, but still pretty good. This week it was a wider range of schools and just better competition that helped us run better.” 

On day one of the Indiana Relays, the Irish placed three athletes in the top three of 
see RELAYS/page 18 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish claim victory on Saint John’s court 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Saturday’s game was unlike so many of No. 2 Notre Dame’s recent games. It involved ugly play, stretches of futility and a final score margin of under 20 points, but it was just like all the others in the only way that really matters. The Irish recovered from a sloppy start and held off Saint John’s late to capture a 71-56 victory in New York. 
Notre Dame (21-1, 8-0 Big East) fell behind 6-1 in the game’s early minutes before picking up the pace and em­barking on a 19-2 run to take a commanding lead. 
“I thought that the game started off a little slow for us and we weren’t playing at our pace; I thought we were play­ing their pace,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “When we started rebounding and running, I thought we looked more like ourselves.” 
The scoring run that gave the Irish a 12-point lead in the first half was orchestrated largely by junior guard Skylar Diggins and graduate student forward Devereaux Peters, who combined for 14 of Notre Dame’s 19 points during the stretch. Saint John’s (13-8, 5-3) battled back, though, scoring eight quick points to pull with­in four of the visiting team. Notre Dame, however, an­swered back once again with an authoritative 14-0 scoring streak. 

The Irish carried a 43-23 lead into halftime, but the Red Storm scored 13 of the second half’s first 17 points to trim the deficit to 11. 
“In the second half, we came out and just couldn’t get in our groove,” McGraw said. “It was a little disappointing. Our shot selection was poor and we weren’t able to make the shots that they gave us.” 
The Irish did find their groove eventually, though, and regained control of the game, this time for good. 
see DIGGINS/page 18 
FENCING 

Underclassmen stand out in crowded field 

By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish were not be de­nied by the 14 other partici­pating schools at this week­end’s Notre Dame Duals, as the No. 4 men’s team and No. 3 women’s team dominated, with each group finishing 12-0 on the weekend. 
To come out from the week­end undefeated was no easy feat given the number of op­ponents, Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
“It’s good to see them go undefeated,” Bednarski said. “It doesn’t mean it was easy, though. We had to fight in some cases against squads with some fencers who were fighting strongly against us. It’s one of the biggest compe­titions we have in the season with 15 teams, so there were a lot of bouts.” 
The women’s team (18-5) was in action Saturday and dominated from its opener, a 21-6 win over Purdue, to its finale, a showdown against No. 4 Northwestern that Notre Dame won 17-10. 
The women won in convinc­ing fashion, amassing 20-plus points in nine of the matches, including a perfect 27-0 score 
see SWEEP/page 17 





