
volume 46, issue 18 | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Teachfor america ranksnd highly 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
for the fourth time in the past five years, notre dame ranked among the top colleges and universities contributing grad­uates to Teach for america’s newest class of teachers. 
Teach for america (Tfa), a nonprofit organization that recruits college graduates and professionals to teach in un­derserved neighborhoods and schools, issued a press release ranking the schools that sent the most graduates into the 2012 Teaching corps according to three categories: large, me­dium and small schools. 
notre dame ranked 12th among medium-sized schools after 27 members of the class of 2012 joined Tfa’s ranks of teachers. 
gaby barahona, Tfa’s man­ager of regional communica­tions, said some schools send more graduates to the program than others for a variety of reasons. 
“it hinges on a few things, like how well Tfa is known on campus or what the leaders on campus decide to do after their undergrad career,” she said. “i think it has to do with what our presence looks like. do we have active recruiters on cam­pus trying to engage the top leaders?” 
northwestern university, harvard university and georgetown university ranked in the top three spots respec­tively for medium schools, which are defined as those with between 3,000 and 9,999 undergraduates. 
The high numbers of notre dame students who have en­tered the Tfa Teaching corps may assist future university 
eca s t brings aapplicants because it brings greater famili rity with the or-
a greater familiarity with ganization to campus,
the organization to campus, 
see Teach PAGE 6 


‘A terrific growth’ 
Hesburgh reflects on changes made during tenure in office 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor 


Editor’s Note: This story is the first installment in a two-part series on University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh’s legacy at Notre Dame. This series is also the final installment in the “From the Office of the President” series. 
he befriended popes and presidents. his name is on the university library. Time magazine featured him on its cover. he served on the civil rights commission and stood hand-in-hand with martin luther King Jr. during the 1960s. women can earn a notre dame degree because of him. 
but at the beginning of it all, university president emeritus fr. Ted hesburgh didn’t want the job. 

“[being president was] the last thing in the world i wanted to do, and i was not aching to get these big jobs,” hesburgh said. “i just wanted to teach and be in the hall and work for the students. That’s literally what i had in mind of what i was going to spend my life doing. and i come back here, and within six or seven years, i wind 
see hesburgh PAGE 7 



A steward of student life 

By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 

put simply, vice president for student affairs erin hoffmann harding’s role is to make sure every student’s undergraduate years at notre dame are as fulfill­ing as hers were. 
“i had a really wonderful ex­perience as a student, and i want to make sure that’s true of every student,” she said. “ina verydirect sense, i’m trying to give back.” 
harding said her goal is to offer the same traditional experiences that make notre dame special to an evolving student body. The need for greater inclusiveness, she said, was highlighted in the spring by the movement for a gay straight alliance (gsa) and the response to a racist incident on campus. 

“we really do have some more work to do in being welcoming and inclusive,” she said. “i see from our students in surveys when they graduate that they are not satisfied with the diverse ex­perience they’re offered here.” 
harding’s office is actively eval­uating opportunities to expand inclusivity to both lgbT students 
see harding PAGE 6 


students explore overseas programs 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
members of the football team are not the onlynotredame students to bring their talents to foreign shores. 
The international open house presented an array of international opportunities to students in the hesburgh center for international studies on wednesday from 4 
p.m. to 6:30 p.m. anne hayes, as­sistant director of the office for international studies and one of the event’s organizers, said each year the international open house is an opportunity for all under­graduate students to learn about notre dame’s various international programs. 
“The idea is to introduce students to the wide array of international options that are available through various offices at notre dame. most students know about study abroad programs through notre dame, but wealsowantthemtoknowaboutin­ternational research, service learn­ing and internship opportunities,” she said. “Theopen houseprovides underclassmen with achanceto be­gin exploring options to spend time abroad. it is also a great way for stu­dents who have already spent time abroad to reflect and to expand on [their] international experiences.” 
senior Tom mitchell, a finance and economics major, said he stud­ied abroad in hong Kong and is in­terested in returning. 
“i enjoyed studying in hong Kong and i’m hoping to return through work or a research opportunity,” he said. “i’m going to visit the career center’stable.” 
freshman evelyn bauman said she attended to learn more about study abroad opportunities in general. 
“i’m here to find out about study abroad, really anything i can get my hands on,” she said. “i’m consider­ing language programs and i’m tak­ing french, so i’m leaning toward africa.” 
freshman daniel 
see abroad PAGE 7 


nd flirTs PAGE 3 sporTs PAGE 20 viewpoinT PAGE 8 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your middle name? 

Dougie Barnard 
sophomore st. edwards 
“robinson.” 
Elizabeth Carson 
freshman 
ryan 
“ann.” 
Emily Migliore 
freshman 
ryan 
“maria.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Evelyn Huang 
freshman mcglinn 
“sze wen.” 
Joe Robinson 
senior off campus 
“conner.” 
Leah Perczak 
freshman ryan 
“marie.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Tori roeck laura coletti Email obsnews@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
nicole michels mike monaco rebecca o’neil matthew defranks 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
brandon Keelean maría fernández 
Photo Viewpoint 

Barack Obama and the National Catholic Women’s Volleyball Women’s Soccer Kickoff to Arts and 
mackenzie sain caroliine schurz 
Crisis of Liberalism Invitational Joyce Center Alumni Stadium Letters Career Week Law School ND Golf Course 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. Geddes Hall 
12:15 p.m. - 1:15 p.m. 3:30 p.m. - 6 p.m. ND vs. Loyola ND vs. Cincinnati 6:30 p.m. - 8 p.m. 
Corrections 

Dr. Charles R. Kesler. Cross Country event. Marymount. Discover grad school. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

The Merchant of Damsels in Distress Film: Neighboring Fall Opening: Public Lecture on Catholic 
strives for the highest standards 
Venice DeBartolo Performing Sounds Reception Social Tradition 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Washington Hall Arts Center DeBartolo Performing Snite Museum of Art Hesburgh Library 
however, recognize that we will make 
7:30 p.m. - 10 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Arts Center 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. 7 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Actors from the Film about girls helping 7 p.m. - 9:24 p.m. Free and open to the An Uncommon Search 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
London Stage. depressed students. Tickets $7/$5/$4 public. for the Common Good. 
we can correct our error. 



SENATE 

Group considers GSA 
By MADDIE DALY 
news writer 
student body vice president Katie rose led a debate about the possibility of notre dame estab­lishing a gay-straight alliance (gsa) in addition to the pre­existing core council during wednesday’s senate meeting. 
before delving into these issues, chief of staff Katie baker praised the student body for the small amount of arrests over the first home football weekend. 
“There were only five students arrested and three non-students,” baker said. “we are so happy that was the number, considering all the things that happened at indiana university and purdue in previous weekends.” 
introduced by off-campus president Katie Kehl, senate elected six new off-campus am­bassadors, one from each popu­lar off-campus living site: caitlin desmond for legacy village, brittany dunn-pirio for irish row, Kaitlyn marks for irish crossings, conor hegedus for northeast neighborhood, andrea suarez for The foundry and camille sharrow for stadium club. 
“Their responsibility is to be the liaison between students living off campus and the on-campus stu­dent government,” Kehl said. 
department of gender issues director matt devine introduced the possibility of creating a gsa focus group to supplement core council. 

“core council exists as a dis­cussion entity but is the equiva­lent to ‘outing yourself.’ over half the students have to be out, with no questioning,” devine said. “gsa would function as a support group between lgbQT students and those who support them … it’s a more holistic approach and a more closed environment.” 
farley hall senator monica daegele, as well as several other senators, expressed her hall’s overwhelming support for the creation of a gsa. 
“The formation of a gsa would foster a community of support, as long as the university lets the stu­dents know what’s going on, may­be through some sort of forum,” daegele said. opposition from Keenan hall senator John vernon sparked a debate. 
“i just hope [the administra­tion] is getting the other side of this debate,” vernon said. “i feel that our catholic values should be upheld. given the catholic church’s stance on these kinds of issues, having a core council is great ... but the addition of a gsa might take it too far if they sup­ported life choices relating to mar­riage specifically.” 
welsh family hall senator felicia byrd said she thinks a gsa is compatible with catholic doctrine. 
“we want to make people feel 
paid adverTisemenT 

included and have a safe haven,” byrd said. “i don’t think gsa would take it too far.” 
vernon then qualified his pre­vious remarks and suggested the possibility of expanding the core council instead of adding gsa. 
“don’t get me wrong, i am sup­portive of a welcome environmen ,” vernon said. 
switching gears, rose intro­duced concerns about student-faculty relationships. 
“faculty has noticed in the past five years or so a decline in ‘good’ student behavior, ranging from texting in class to coming in late or leaving for long periods of time,” rose said. 
class of 2014 president lizzie helping suggested funding pro­fessors to host students at their homes for class dinners. 
bakernalso said student gov­ernment is interested in ex­ploring more flexible academic opportunities. 
“i know many schools have a create-your-own major or minor progra…,” baker said. “brett, Katie and i are very interested in talking more about this.” 
rose ended the meeting on a positive note. 
“we are looking to collaborate to make sure we are in the best learning environment possible for all involved,” she said. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
DIRTY BOOK SALE  
Wednesday, September 12 & Thursday, September 13, 2012 9:30 AM — 3:30 PM HESBURGH LIBRARY CONCOURSE Clean up on our scandalously low priced, dirty, dusty, and otherwise abused, but totally readable books! HARDCOVERS $4.00 • PAPERBACKS $3.00 30% DISCOUNT ON ALL NEW & RECENT TITLES !"#$%&'(%)%*+,-(.,/%0%12345"667237"31  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS  

notre dame learns to flirt 

By SARAH MCCARTHY 
news writer 
dating coach adam lodolce gave notre dame students a les­son in flirting, dating and rela­tionships wednesday evening during the flirting workshop, sponsored by the gender relations center. lodolce, who has been featured in glamour magazine, gave a presentation in mcKenna hall that included a slideshow to teach students not only how to flirt, but also how to break down larger social barri­ers that may prevent them from meeting new people. 
“social fears inhibit us from achieving greatness in our lives,” lodolce said. “our social and professional lives would be much different if we were more comfortable putting ourselves out there.” 
lodolce gave students a brief account of his background and how he got started in his career. he also admitted that, as a col­lege student, he would often deal with his anxiety over meeting girls by getting drunk before he went out. 
after meeting a fellow student at a party whose gregarious and outgoing personality caught his attention, lodolce said he re­alized he had it within him to overcome his social fears. he eventually started his coach­ing business, which is centered on helping people achieve what he calls “social freedom,” he said.“social freedom is the con­fidence to be yourself in any so­cial situation without the fear of rejection or criticism,” lodolce said. “everyone is born socially free.” 
as people grow older, they accumulate learned fears, usu­ally through parents, and these fears eventually make it harder for them to meet new people and begin new relationships, lodolce said. 
as a way to get over these fears and develop more confidence, lodolce offered the audience certain secrets to achieving so­cial freedom. 
“The first is to develop your unique concise identity,” he said. 
he encouraged students to think about what made them different or unique, and he said they should not be afraid to ex­press those characteristics. 
“i believe that once you start building confidence you feel more comfortable putting your­self out there in a different way than someone else,” he said. 
lodolce advised the audience to think about what to first say to someone when meeting him or her because, he said, “cheesy pickup lines don’t work.” 
another way to build confi­dence, lo dolce said, is to warm up before social gatherings. 
“Talk to anyone you’re not in­timidated by, and slowly expose yourself to things that make you uncomfortable,” lodolce said. 
lodolce challenged the stu­dents in the audience to intro­duce him or herself to five people in the crowm. 
finally, lodolce said students shoulo stop worrying so much about what others think. 
“if you constantly question yourself, you become your inse­curities,” he said. “be attracted to yourself to live a life full of love. The main thing is to have fun.” 
ksome students in the au­dience, such as senior alex budz, said they appreciated the tips lodolce presented in the workshop. 
“i liked it a lot,” budz said. “i’m in a relationship, but i think i could also use his advice to meet new friends.” 
fellow senior Katharine mackdsaid she also enjoyed the presentation. 
“i liked his positive vibes,” she saie. “i found the talk intriguing.” 
Contact Sarah McCarthy at    smccart1@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

video highlights diverse community 
By TORI ROECK 
news writer 
The newest viral video on the notre dame campus is a prod­uct of the university’s office of undergraduate admissions. 
Joyce lantz, director of com­munications for the office of undergraduate admissions, said the “any given day” video, which has been viewed nearly 27,000 times, features students with diverse academic tracks and extracurricular activities to show prospective students the range of opportunities available to them at notre dame. 
“students at notre dame go above and beyond the ordinary college student, making our students and our days extraor­dinary,” lantz said. “students enjoy the challenge of aca­demic rigor, and there is always something happening on cam­pus to attract their intellectual 
curiosity.” 
“We tend to get a 
one-sided view 
of Notre Dame, 
the tradition and 
the Catholicism 
and the straight-
edged student 
population, but 
I think this video 
gives a really cool 
and dynamic 
perspective.” 
Martha Dee 
Senior 
The video also emphasizes notre dame’s sense of commu­nity and catholic identity, she said, making students “truly a part of something larger than themselves.” 
“notre dame offers a distinc­tive catholic experience within an environment of universal moral values,” lantz said. “This open and accepting community of faith urges one to examine is­sues from all angles; it also fills one with a sense of purpose, pas­sion and meaning. regardless of one’s individual faith tradition, he or she will feel affirmed at notre dame.” 
senior martha dee, who ap­pears in the video, said it high­lights parts of the notre dame experience that most prospec­tive students don’t get the chance to see. 
“i think it shows a lot of dif­ferent facets of notre dame life, which is a good thing,” dee said. “we tend to get a one-sided view of notre dame, the tradition and the catholicism and the straight-edged student population, but i think this video gives a really cool and dynamic perspective.” 
dee said the video not only depicts how students spend their time while attending notre dame but also the different paths they will take after graduation. 
“not only is it giving a rock-star view of notre dame … but showing how these experiences here will ultimately lead to the rest of your life,” she said. “This is a jumpstart from where you then go into your career or into your future social life.” 
lantz said the office of undergraduate admissions held a casting call to recruit students to appear in the video. 
“we were seeking students that could tell their notre dame story with authenticity,” she said. “we did not want to work from a script, nor present a ‘talk­ing heads’ format.  instead, we thought of the process in terms of conversations, conversations one could have with any notre dame student on ‘any given day.’” 
dee said she was unsure of how the video would turn out while filming but is thrilled with the final product. 
“when we were shooting the footage, it was just a bunch of walking down the hall and doing the same things over again, and you’re like, ‘how are they going to put this together? what is put­ting on makeup in a room going to show a prospective student?’” she said. “but when all those little clips were put together, you got every single different view of notre dame you possibly could get. i loved the way it turned out.” 
The student reaction to the video over social media was im­pressive as well, she said. 
“it was on everybody’s facebook page within 45 min­utes of it being posted,” dee said. “everybody was like, ‘This is awesome! This is why i go to this school! i love notre dame.’” 
dee said she got goosebumps and started crying the first time she watched the video, and she hopes prospective students get the same feeling. 
“i think for perspective stu­dents who are on the edge — they probably were accepted to a bunch of top-tier schools — look­ing at his video could give them a really cool look into notre dame that you may not otherwise see,” she said. 
Junior caroline ramsey said the video encapsulates the notre dame “work hard, play hard” mentality. 
“it shows that [notre dame students are] really involved in studies and involved in engaging in a lot of different activities and exercising their curiosity in so many ways, more than just aca­demic,” ramsey said. “it tried to show a picture of a whole life, a whole person. That’s what col­lege is all about, educating the whole person. That’s what notre dame is about.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 

comedians entertain belles 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
associate saint mary’s editor 

legendary comedy writers bill persky and Tom leopold entertained students, faculty and staff at saint mary’s on wednesday evening with a dis­cussion panel. The talk was the first in a series of lectures, pri­vate master classes, workshops and performances during their two-day visit to the college. 
This is persky’s second visit to saint mary’s in less than a year, as he previously visited in april. he is a five-time emmy award-winning writer, produc­er and director who has worked on such iconic television shows as “The dick van dyke show,” “who’s the boss,” “That girl” and “The cosby show.” 
leopold is famous for his writing, story editing and producing for classic televi­sion shows such as “cheers,” “seinfeld” and “will and grace.” 
Together, the pair discussed with students how they got involved with careers in writ­ing, producing and directing comedy. 
“i kind of got tricked into [writing comedy],” persky said. “it’s mainly observing and looking at life and saying ‘that’s weird,’ instead of just letting it go by. it’s all about how you no­tice stuff.” 
leopold, who said he had wanted to go into show busi­ness ever since he was five years old, also said writing comedy is about looking at everyday events in a different way. 
“you just have to pay atten­tion to what strikes you, wheth­er it is funny or sad or just some guy in the street,” he said. “i didn’t know i had the ability to be funny until i met other funny people and could make them laugh.” 
leopold and persky offered some help to writers seeking advice on how to improve and build on their skills. 
nleopold stressed the im­portance of simply sitting down and writing every day, even if no one sees it. 
“by writing, you’ll find out who you are,” leopold said. “if you write every day, great ac­cidents can happen. you find your voice.” 
perskytsaid practice can help one improve as a writer. 
“don’t start out to write something great,” he said. “Just start out to write something. nobody has the freedom to do 
paid adverTisemenT 
what you want to do like a writ­er. it’s just you and your desire and the way you express it.” 
senior danielle haydell said the lecture was not only an enjoyable way to spend her wednesday evening but also a chance to learn about comedy and the personal backgrounds of the two writers. 
“(Their talk) was hilarious and was very insightful,” she said. “it was really great to ac­tually meet the people who write the funny shows because i feel like you hear about the ac­tors all the time, but you never hear about the actual people who write it. it was nice to be able to talk to them and ask questions and hear their life stories.” 
on Thursday, leopold will perform his one-man show titled “when a comedy writer finds god,” a story about his conversion from Judaism to catholicism. The performance begins at 7:30 p.m.tin the little Theatre of the moreau center for performing arts. Tickets and more information can be found at                                              www.moreaucenter.com. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@nd.edu 




‘To Write Love on Her Arms’ 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
guest speaker aaron moore invited saint mary’s stu­dents to join the movement titled “To write love on her arms” (Twloha) in a speech wednesday evening for national suicide prevention week. 
maureen parsons, president of the student government association (sga), introduced the night by giving the audience some background information on the organization. 
“‘To write love on her arms’ is a non-profit movement dedi­cated to presenting hope to people struggling with addic­tion, depression, self-injury and suicide,” parsons said. “This movement began as the simple attempt to tell the story of a friend in need but gained quick attention over the internet.” 
Twloha has donated over one million dollars directly to treatment recovery, parsons said. 
“The organization has been featured on news outlets such as nbc, cbs and mTv,” she said. “supported by bands such as switchfoot, anberlin and paramore, Twloha has also grown quickly through the mu­sic community.” 
moore, a licensed mental health counselor with a mas­ter’s degree in counseling, works with adults and teenagers to help them find healing and recovery with the organization, he said. 
“we are really excited to be here tonight,” moore said. “This is a big week for our organiza­tion since it is national suicide prevention week, something that is near and dear to our hearts.” 
before moore’s talk got under­
“One of the worst lies that feeds the stigma about these issues is that if someone wants to commit suicide, then you cannot help them.” 
Aaron Moore 
mental health counselor 
way, he introduced a guitarist named eric James, who treated the audience to a selection of songs from his band, The last royals. 
“our organization is a big fan of music,” moore said. “we love having an opportunity to take a musician with us on the road. The act of music has played a huge role with Twloha.” 
after James finished, moore returned to the stage to give the audience more information about Twloha. 
“Things that Twloha talks about are typically things that most people are uncomfort­able talking about,” moore said. “being with Twloha for the past six years has really opened my eyes to many more things within the realm of suicide, de­pression and addiction.” 
after reading a magazine one day, moore said he found out about the organization and that it  happened to be located down the street from where he was working. 
“i saw that the organization had been talking about suicide and it really hit home,” moore said. “after getting in contact with Jamie Tworkowski, the founder of Twloha, i became involved with the organization.” 
Tworkowski created”Twloha when a friend of his needed treatment for her addiction, moore said. 
“Jamie wanted to tell his friend’s story and get these issues of addiction and self-injury out there,” he said. “Twloha was created by Jamie as a way to gain support for his friend in need.” 
durng his talk, moore said talking about issues like depres­sion, suicide, self-injury and addiction is one of the bigger challenges in life. 
“being honest in topics like this, we might feel as though there are complications to talk­ing about our feelings,” he said. “we don’t want people to tell us that we are wrong feeling sad or 



paid adverTisemenT 
depressed.” 
Turing to the audience, moore asked the group why it is so hard to talk about how we feel to our loved ones. 
“it is so much easier to pretend it is not happening,” one audi­ence member said. “ignorance is bliss.” 
fear of rejection was another common answer among the listeners. 
“people are afraid to go to someone and have them say, ‘well that’s not important enough to be depressed about,’” another audience member said. 
moore addressed these re­sponses, tying them back to Twloha and the organization’s key points. 
“one of the worst lies that feeds the stigma about these is­sues is that if someone wants to commit suicide, then you cannot help them,” he said. 
society does not do well with issues like depression and recov­ery, he said. 
“we only see these topics dis­cussed in gossip magazines and blog sites,” moore said. “our so­ciety only sees these issues on reality television.” 
moore closed his address with reminding the audience that more people in the world suffer from the issues of depression, self-injury, addiction and suicide than.most people think. 
“at Twloha, we have learned that people need to be more aware about these issues and that by using the platform we have, people will learn,” he said. “i bet a lot of money that most of us can connect with the fears of being open about these issues in our lives. our fears are very much like each other’s; we are far more similar than what we origi­nally believed.” 
moore said communities should support people dealing with these issues. 
“we believe that there is some­thing powerful about a sense of community where sharing stories really helps others,” he said. “There is something really amazing when we get to know that our story actually matters to someone.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 


the university will strive to provide 
Harding Teach 
for all aspects of student health and 
conTinued from page 1 
conTinued from page 1 

well-being. and those of varying ethnicities, “physical and mental health are 
barahona said. she said. areas of increasing focus within 
“you might have friends who “[university president] fr. John student affairs across the country, 
have done it, and you know their [Jenkins] has asked our office to and notre dame is no different,” she 
experiences and have a stron­look broadly at the services and said. “where we are different is that 
ger knowledge base of what support that we offer to our gay and once our students are physically and 
Tfa is and what they look for,” lesbian student population on cam-mentally well, our spiritual forma­
she said. “it doesn’t necessar­pus,” she said. “also with the ‘call to tion, our developmental approach, 
ily give you an edge, but it helps action’ [campaign] last year, we’re is really unique. but we have to get 
inform the decision making and working with the student organi-that foundation right first.” 
application.” zations to make sure those types of while the university strives to 
Tfa attracts exemplary college events don’t occur again.” provide spiritual guidance and 
graduates and professionals to ap-The incoming class, the most di-pastoral care, harding said she will 
ply each year, barahona said, and verse and international yet, is a posi-work for an atmosphere of open dia­
the process is very competitive. tive sign of a trend toward a more logue and exploration. 
This year, the program received dynamic student body makeup, she “whatever faith you are, i want 
over 48,000 applications and ac-said. notre dame to be a place where stu­
cepted 5,800 teachers, a 17 percent “i think the incoming freshman dents can explore — academically 
acceptance rate. class, for example, is a really exciting obviously — but also their beliefs,” 
brittany scherer, class of 2012, thing for the university,” she said. she said. 
was one of the lucky 17 percent to “all of us can benefit from learning The spiritual and ethical founda­
join the Tfa 2012 Teaching corps from people of different cultural tion of the notre dame student expe­
as a teacher of eighth grade read-backgrounds, ethnicities, et cetera.” rience is one unique aspect harding 
ing and literature at arlington harding said her office intends said she pledges to maintain. 
high school in indianapolis. to offer these increasingly varied “i will never apologize for the fact 
“i love it,” scherer said of her students an equally broad array that notre dame is held to very high 
teaching job. “i never thought i of opportunities, a trend that has standards. i think that is one of the 
wanted to be a teacher, but i’ve continued since her time as an best things about us,” she said. “we 
been in school for about a month undergraduate. are unique and different in that 
so far and i absolutely love it.” value of service the university in-involvement and leadership “compared to when i was a stu-we’re trying to be the best research 
scherer said she decided to ap-stills in its students, scherer said. qualities. dent, we have so many more oppor-university in undergraduate educa­
ply to the program after she par-“it’s one of the main reasons i barahona also said leadership is tunities to find a passion and pursue tion we can be, while at the same 
ticipated in a summer service knew i wanted to do something a crucial quality for a Tfa applica­it, whether that’s something like un-time remaining distinctlycatholic.” 
learning project involved with with my life in service to others,” tion, as well as individuality and dergraduate research — which was harding said she is prepared to 
education. she said. “i think a lot of students passion. relatively new when i was here — or stand by that unique catholic iden­
“i saw the achievement gaps at notre dame realize how blessed “what are the leadership quali­study abroad, which has exploded tity while considering policy issues, 
firsthand with eight-year-olds,” they are to be there, and it makes ties you bring to the table?“what since i was here,” she said. regardless of public criticism. 
scherer said. “if the problem was you realize how important it is that have you done on campus to set while notre dame students con-“it makes us unique, different and 
starting with eight-year-olds, i you use this gift to serve others.” yourself apart?” she said. “going tinue to push themselves toward a truly wonderful experiment in 
couldn’t imagine what it was like for future Tfa applicants, through those questions can help their passions, harding said she higher education,” she said. “if that 
for 12th graders, so i knew i want-scherer said the organization you figure out if you’re compatible hopes the university continues to brings a little attention along with it, 
ed to work with an organization emphasizes the well-rounded in-for Tfa.” offer opportunities for balance. that’s okay.” 
that fights that gap.” dividual, one who not only does “if there’s one concern i have, controversial issues and media 
many notre dame graduates well academically, but also has Contact Mel Flanagan at it’s balance. when you look at the attention are a new challenge for 
choose to join Tfa because of the demonstrated extracurricular mflanag3@nd.edu world and technology and how harding, who was most recently 
paid adverTisemenT 

quickly things move, there’s so associate vice president of strategic much demand on our time,” she planning. however, she said she did said. “achieve balance also — take a not hesitate to accept the new role little time to rest. do one thing well and benefitted from the guidance of versus five things at a cursory level.” her predecessor, fr. Tom doyle. 
part of her role, which includes “he was wonderful, from the mo-oversight of the career center, is to ment we started this transition. we help students pursue their passions met weekly in the spring and it was after their undergraduate years, she a different topic each week, covering said. everything from housing assign­
“i hope that notre dame contin-ments to conduct and discipline,” ues to do a lot to help students mov-she said. “he was a true gift and ing on,” she said. “we want to do mentor.” all we can to help students find the harding said her education right path. it’s a challenging market will not end with doyle’s weekly out there, so we’re doing everything meetings. we can to make sure our students “There’s a set of professionals in are as competitive and successful as this division who’ve been doing they can be.” this particular work much longer 
for those students seeking more than me, and i’ll continue to learn advanced degrees after graduation, from them, and i also think we’ll harding said she expects notre learn from our student body ... as dame’s graduate programs to con-our students continue to grow and tinue to grow and improve during change,” she said. “i have tons to her time at the university. learn, and hopefully listening is one 
“we are excited to offer additional of my strengths in terms of leader-support in this area, even as we con-ship style.” tinue to enhance the undergraduate whatever change manifests dur­experience,” she said. ing her tenure, harding said she 
no matter what successes stu-will work tirelessly to maintain the dents reach after graduation, feeling of community and good will harding said one of the university’s among notre dame students, fac­greatest roles is to instill a common ulty and alumni. set of values. “ultimately the care for the indi­
“i hope this place continues to vidual and that sense of community stay grounded and all [students] are probably most important,” she continue to be grounded in a set of said. “no matter what changes in 10 values,” she said. “everything starts or 15 years, i still want students grad-and stops there. i think notre dame uating feeling like they were a part of has done a great job there so i hope something bigger than themselves.” we continue with that in the future.” 
Keeping with the theme of mod-Contact John Cameron at eration in student life, harding said jcamero@nd.edu 




Abroad 
conTinued from page 1 
nilssonsjolander, an international student from sweden, said he is considering opportunities to study in english-speaking countries. 
“i’m studying abroad as it is, but because i’m studying business it would be cool to spend half of the year in england or australia,” he said. 
hayes said an important aspect of the event was allowing students to network among themselves about international opportunities. 
“because there were students who had already spent time abroad and students seeking to go abroad, there were plenty of opportunities for students to interact with one an­other,” she said. 
over 20 offices from across campus sent representatives to discuss their international pro­grams, hayes said, including nd international (international studies and international student services and activities), the Kellogg institute for international studies, student international business council and the center for social concerns. 

paid adverTisemenT 
Junior bobby alvarez represent­ed the center for social concerns (csc). alvarez said he participated in two summer service learning projects through the csc, one do­mestic and one international. 
alvarez said the csc participated in the event in order to pursue its overall goal as an organization. 
“The center for social concerns is at this open house because our mission is making education work for justice and justice goes beyond our nation, state and city,” he said. “Justice is an international, world­wide concern.” 
hayes said this year’s speaker at the event was dr. nick entrikin, the university’s first vice president and associate provost for international­ization. entrikin’s remarks  focused on the importance of international­izing a notre dame education. 



house in 2008, but this was the first year notre dame international co­sponsored it. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
Hesburgh 
conTinued from page 1 
up being president. 
“That to me was not exactly a gift from heaven.” 
hesburgh had begun his studies at notre dame in 1934 and com­pleted his undergraduate degree in philosophy at the gregorian university in rome in 1939. when he returned to notre dame in 1945, he was a priest interested in teach­ing theology and working as a rec­tor in farley hall. 
by 1952, he was the 15th president of notre dame. he was 35 years old. 
in a recent interview with The observer, hesburgh, now 95, re­flected on the change of plans that took him from a young theology professor to the office on the top of 
The event was co-sponsored by the Kellogg institute for international studies and notre dame international, hayes said. 
hayes said Kellogg began spon­soring the international open 
a library that bears his name and towers over the campus he helped build. 
“we were not a very great univer­sity at that time,” hesburgh said. “we had a miserable little budget of about $7 million. Today, it’s $7 billion.” 
when hesburgh first assumed the mantle of university presi­dent, the job was much different. The congregation of holy cross governed notre= dame and ran many of its daily operations. The university president also acted as the superior of all the order’s priests on campus, and he was limited to two three-year terms in office. 
after hesburgh completed his two terms in office, he said the con­gregation removed him from the position of superior that could by canon law only be held for six years. but he remained in the office of the president. 
“at the end of six years, they said, ‘Keep on going,’” hesburgh said. “and i went on for almost 40 years.” 
in 1967, the congregation re­linquished official control of the university and turned its leader­ship over to a board of Trustees, a mixed group of lay and religious members. 
with the change, hesburgh said notre dame truly became a “self­propelled” establishment. 
“[The congregation of holy cross] owned the university, inso­far as anybody owns the university, but they turned it over to become an autonomous corporation,” hesburgh said. “They took it lock, stock and barrel and turned it over to this new corporation called the university of notre dame du lac.” 
The board of Trustees was not the only addition to notre dame during hesburgh’s term. 
“we needed all kinds of build­ings,” hesburgh said. “we needed arts buildings, we needed science buildings, we needed laboratories, we needed playing fields, we need­ed everything. 
while hesburgh added 40 new buildings to campus during his time at notre dame, his first order of business was hiring new deans to lead the university’s academic life to a new level. 
“you need absolutely first-rate deans who can reach out and at­tract faculty to transfer to notre dame, and once they get here, they can work with [those faculty] to increase … in their fields,” he said. “and that’s what happened. i mean today, i’d say the people that were teaching when i first became presi­dent could never get a job here.” 
grants from the ford foundation and other organizations began the growth in fundraising and finan­cial development that would sky­rocket during hesburgh’s tenure. during his 35 years, hesburgh grew notre dame’s endowment from $9 million to $350 million, according to the university website. 
“The ford foundation got into a developmental program devel­oping some promising colleges to grow into great universities,” he said. “we were one of the original five or six picked out.” 
hesburgh credited the work of his fellow administrators, especial­ly former executive vice president fr. ned Joyce. 
“The best friend i had was edmund p. Joyce, fr. ned Joyce,” hesburgh said. “he was a superb companion because first he was very smart, and on top of that he had knowledge that i didn’t have. he was a [certified public accoun­tant], and he was also a big sporting fan so he knew about athletics.” 
Joyce retired from his position in 1987, the same year as hesburgh. when the two retired, hesburgh was the longest-tenured university president in the united states, ac­cording to the university website. 
his long time in office, so dif­ferent than the life he planned for himself as a young theology profes­sor, has been a blessing in disguise, hesburgh said. 
“with continuity, everything moves,” hesburgh said. “with dis­continuity, everything changing every three or four years, you’re not going anywhere. one guy just gets started, and he’s changed with somebody else, and he just gets started, and you don’t have that continuous thrust upwards. but we had people around so long that we were part of a continual upward effort. 
“by and large, we are a fully-built, equipped, manned — and wom­aned — university. and it’s been a terrific growth.” 
Tomorrow: University President Emeritus Fr. Ted Hesburgh on keep­ing the door open to students. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 


legalize steroids 
Isaac Lorton 
sports writer 
Brian Kaneb 
guest columnist 

how would a romney administration approach health care? The presidential hopeful would like voters to believe he would never com­promise on the issue, but at the same time recognizes the need to appease the varying factions that support him. The fact is that such competing factors make this question much more com­plex than it appears on the surface. however, we can get a glimpse into romney’s decision-making process by looking at how he has developed dur­ing his time as a political figure. 
mitt romney left a lasting impact on healthcare during his time in massachusetts when he pushed for a bill he believed would lead to univer­sal coverage through the individual mandate. Though this may seem like heresy to republicans in hindsight, romney obviously disagreed given the political context at the time. 
his approach seemed to make sense both pragmatically and politically. not only did almost every citizen in massachusetts already have health insurance, but romney also likely believed he could get the electorate behind addressing the “free riders” whose expenses are paid for by the taxpayer. as a massachusetts native, i can guarantee romnney knew the electorate would not be particularly resistant to the individual mandate as well. massachusetts is about as liberal as mississippi is conservative. 
it is in large part due to these ac­tions that mitt romney has been forced to spend much of his time on the national stage addressing health care. not only has he had to factor in new voters with new priorities, but he also must realize that the republican party of 2012 is not the republican party of 2000. The Tea party has brought the republican party further to the right by solidifying a significant role in the public discourse and ob­taining the resources a presidential candidate longs for. 
mitt romney has adjusted his strategy accordingly. he realized the republican primaries were essentially a test of his conservative values, and thus repeatedly pointed out he would repeal “obamacare” whenever health care came up on the campaign. as it became increasingly obvious romney would face president obama in the general election, he gradually revealed some of the more moderate specif­ics of his plans for health care. Just this past sunday, romney suggested in an interview with nbc that he favored some of the provisions—in particular the ban on health care pro­viders discriminating against people with pre-existing conditions—of “romneycare.” 
it is beyond doubt that mitt romney has changed his point of emphasis with regards to health care, just like president obama did with regards to gay marriage. This may seem confus­ing on the surface, but it does reveal a trend that could potentially lead us towards an answer to the aforemen­tioned question. 
both in the state and federal levels of government, romney’s decision-making process has been conserva­tive. he generally prioritizes the issues society wants him to prioritize. while it remains to be seen where public opinion will stand on health care in the future, we at least know a romney administration would try its best to avoid creating controversy through its actions. 
Brian Kaneb is a junior studing political science and energy studies. He can be reached at bkaneb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“always acknowledge a fault. This will throw 
What was your favorite part of the game 
those in authority off their guard and give against Purdue this weekend? you an opportunity to commit more.” 
Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll 
Mark Twain 

U.S. novelist by 5 p.m. Thursday. 

To put it simply, steroids should be al­lowed in major league baseball. (gasp!) i know, i know … what about the tradi­tion and integrity of the game? or how can we compare players across time if certain performances are enhanced by drugs? or how are we to judge people for entrance into cooperstown? 
let me answer these questions. 
small ball is for college baseball and, as mlb teams have shown in the past ten years, does not belong in the mlb. home runs are what teams count on for run production. Take a look at the arizona diamondbacks keeping mark reynolds around. he struck out seven times for every home run he got and set two records for most strikeouts in a sea­son. yet, he hit home runs and fans want to see the long ball, so the d-backs kept him around to pay the bills. 
wasn’t the most exciting time in re­cent history of baseball 1997-2001? mark mcgwire and sammy sosa were slug­ging homer after homer, competing for the title of most home runs in a season. didn’t fans go nuts when barry bonds hit 73 in 2001 to top mcgwire’s 70? home runs are what excite the fans. 
although a walk-off single or double will do, fans want to see a walk-off hom­er, not a base hit. home runs are simply more exciting. 
some will complain that this harms the integrity of the game, while judging cooperstown ballots will be too difficult with this added variable. i have a prob­lem with this argument. 
mark grace ended his career with a .303 batting average, 2445 hits, 1146 rbi’s and 1179 runs. it is not a very well known fact, but mark grace had the most base hits in the 90’s. not mcgwire, sosa, bonds or palmeiro, but grace. yet, mark grace did not receive enough votes last year to even be placed on the ballot for consideration into the hall of fame. all of these other players though, will have the opportunity to make it into the hall of fame despite their tainted pasts. if players without integrity can be considered for the hall of fame while a player who did not use steroids and still got more hits than any of them over a ten year span cannot, why not just make steroids legal? Then we can distinguish the “clean era” from the “steroid era” and vote by era. This way, players will be judged without asterisks and question marks. 
if fans pay to see the long ball, not the shutout or short game, and if a player is willing to harm his body to get an up­per hand, why not legalize steroids in baseball? 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Worth tucking into your pocket... 
or into your heart 
Katharine Barrett 
faithpoint 

i have just finished hanging up one of my favorite new birthday presents in my office. a dear friend gave me a framed print of her scriptural “life verse,” a small, valuable nugget from the bible that she carries in her heart and tries to shape her approach to life. 
The catholic church hasn’t focused its efforts on encouraging people to memorize scripture as clearly as have other christian traditions. There’s no reason why we can’t start, though and choose a line or a few that help us hear the voice of god speaking to our hearts. 
most of us probably don’t have the ability or perseverance to memorize the entire gospel of John or one of paul’s letters to the corinthians, but, in the end, that’s just fine, because  noth­ing steers a person toward clarity like having to make a choice. would you pick cookies and cream or mint chip? pepperoni or sausage? backstreet boys or ‘n sync? more importantly, though we think about it less often, matthew 
25:40 or luke 6:37? sure, you can just scroll through any — or every — book of the bible on your smartphone, but try this instead: take the time to think about, to listen for, what god might want you to hear as you go about your days. 
do you need patience or generosity? humility or courage? The word of god speaks to all these needs and more. wouldn’t it be worth the time to select a verse or two that we really need to keep in our hearts and turn over in our prayers each day? if the bible feels a bit unfamiliar, start with the familiar: “The lord is my shepherd; i shall not want” (ps. 23), or “love the lord your god with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself” (luke 10:27). listen during mass and try to carry away a phrase from one of the readings, the psalm or a hymn that particularly speaks to you.  later you can plug it into google and find where it comes from. 
maybe most of us won’t have one “life verse,” but several that speak to us at different times in our lives. my husband and i, believing that god would bless our marriage and wanting to keep him firmly in the midst of our lives together, chose psalm 40 for our wedding mass: “here i am, lord; i come to do your will.” i think back on that choice and it reminds me to try always to be open to following god’s will in our family. now, with three teens and a “tween” in the house, psalm 141, “set a guard over my mouth, o lord; keep watch at the door of my lips,” has become more helpful than i ever dreamed! my 14 year-old nephew recently made his confirmation in the lutheran church. as part of his preparation, he wrote a faith statement and included his favor­ite verse, which comes from 2 samuel: “my god, my rock of refuge! my shield, my saving horn, my stronghold, my refuge, my savior.” who knows which of god’s words he will grow into as he continues to live out his faith, but he has chosen the lord to be his rock. 
my friend’s verse, now hanging on my wall facing the south Quad, comes from paul’s letter to the ephesians: “do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is help­ful for building others up according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen.” it reminds me of her and the gift she has for encouraging, for “building up,” everyone around her.  it also reminds me that, as the letter to the hebrews says, “the word of god is living and effective,” full of mercy, wisdom and strength for any of us who desire to hold it in our hearts. 
and as for matthew 25:40 and luke 6:37, i can only pass on what my dad used to say: “well, go look it up.” 
Katharine Barrett can be reached at Katharine.S.Barrett.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
of cowboys and communes 
Mia Lillis 
guest columnist 
picture this. 

you are a teenager in an american household. you follow baseball stats religiously, love playing football, know where to find the best hamburgers in town, your Toby Keith cd has never been ejected from your car’s stereo sys­tem and, if it were up to you, you’d never remove your bootcut jeans. 
but there is a catch. you were born into a family of (to put it simply) ex­tremely liberal hippies. 
your mother spends most of her time tending her huge community garden. whatever free time she has following her garden work is usually devoted to reading up on the latest post-modern literature, listening to enya and sipping her home-grown tea. your father has devoted himself to organizing protests at the capital every week. he also helps organize communes across the state. 
suffice it to say, you feel like you have very little in common with the rest of your family. while your mother and sister discuss the plausibility of a derridean interpretation of blue velvet at the dinner table and your father excitedly passes you his vegan quinoa stew, you sigh inside, wishing that you had someone to discuss the latest upenn drama with. 
one day, your uncle pete comes over for dinner. despite being a diehard redskins fan, you light up when you see uncle pete’s cowboys shirt. you spend most of dinner talking your uncle’s ear off about football stats and season outcome predictions. he takes it all in stride, and, at the end of the dinner, invites you to come to his place to watch the next redskins game with some other family members who also enjoy sports. 
you enthusiastically ask your parents for permission, which they grant, and that’s how you finally find yourself in a house full of football fans, something you never thought would happen. you all excitedly follow the game, and dur­ing commercial breaks find out that you also have more in common, such as sim­ilar taste in music or a religious devotion to french fries. and so, you find yourself hanging out with uncle pete and the rest of the crew on a pretty regular basis. 
does your choice to hang out with uncle pete and the rest of the “non­liberal outcasts” mean you are no longer a part of your family? certainly not. you still love your parents and your relatives to pieces, and you know that this love is mutual. Just because you, uncle pete and the others do not happen to share the same interests as the rest of your family, and as such have developed a “minority culture,” does not mean that you are no longer members of the fam­ily. families have always been and will always be diverse. and, if your mom drops by sometime to watch a football game because she wishes to understand a little more about your passions, then she is by all means welcome. but if none of your more liberally-inclined family members are interested in playing some ball with you, uncle pete and the gang, that’s perfectly fine too. individuals with unique interests and cultures make up a family. besides, you know you’re all going to get together for the family triathlon competition, and you’ll all enjoy a good baked potato at the end of the day. 
. . . 

This is the minority experience at notre dame. Just to clarify, the term “minority” is not limited to ethnicity. minority can also refer to those of us who do not share in the catholic faith, are queer or would rather spend those four hours on saturday playing league of legends while the rest of the campus is at the stadium. we are not looking to exclude. we are simply excited to have found a group of people who share our common interests or culture. if you have been a football-goer all your life, but are interested in exploring league of legends one afternoon, we welcome you. but if you would rather continue going to the basilica every sunday and do not feel the calling to explore other religions, we are perfectly okay with that as well. after all, we are unique indi­viduals, and it is the inherent diversity in families that make them the coolest structures in society. much like we re­frain from asking the “majority” notre dame students to become carbon cop­ies of us minorities, we appreciate when this is mutual. we’re still all going to participate in the same appalachia sem­inars, or spend late nights in the lafun basement. we have a variety of cultures and a variety of interests, but we are still all one family, one notre dame. 
Mia Lillis is a junior majoring in political science and philosophy. She can be reached at mlillis@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

among the best in the nation.” with the festival chorus and orchestra. 
By CLAIRE STEPHENS 

scene writer The topics that will be discussed include the genre, “we are very grateful to the college of arts and text, function and context of sacred music, as well as letters and the support of the nanovic institute and 
This week sacred music at notre dame and the spirituality, impact and practice of composing and dpac, so we can offer the three evening concerts to the debartolo performing arts center host three days of conducting sacred music. public without cost,” fassler said. “This is a time for our creativity, connection and celebration with a sacred “These events show we’re well on the way to being entire community, and our guests, to study, explore, music conference titled “James macmillian and the the only world-class music program that teaches all the learn and enjoy.” musical modes of mary and the cross.” things vatican ii called for,” said peter Jeffery, co-direc-
The festival conference, beginning today and end-tor of the masters of sacred music program. “[Those Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu ing saturday, will feature composer and guest lecturer things are] high standards of training, preserving the 
James macmillan, who is in residence to attend the pre-treasury of sacred music, active participation in the lit­miere of his new motet “cum vidisset Jesus.” along with urgy and openness to all world cultures.” him will be a panel of other distinguished composers, The focus of the conference is to debate the issues conductors and scholars. The panel will include guest of composing and performing sacred music today. composers, guest participants, faculty members and composers and conductors of sacred music are invited 
On Campus 

ensembles. to share their work in the choral readings, discuss com-
What:  James MacMillian and the Musical Modes of Mary 
macmillan, the preeminent scottish composer of his posing and commissioning and engage in the panels 
and the Cross 

generation, has been programmed worldwide by or-and workshops. chestras including the london symphony orchestra, “sacred music at notre dame offers a vibrant palette 
Where: DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
the new york and los angeles philharmonics and the of performances, workshops, and discussions, show-
When: Thursday, September 13 to                                
cleveland orchestra and has been a featured compos-casing notre dame’s fine facilities and the dynamism 
Saturday, September 15 
er at the edinburgh festival, the southbank centre in of our faculty, performing ensembles, students and in-
How Much: Free, but tickets are required 
london and the bbc barbican composer weekend. vited guest artists,” margot fassler, co-director of the “for us, it’s a historic moment, to have the preeminent festival, said. “The group of composers we have assem-
Learn More: theology.nd.edu 
catholic composer of our time visiting the community bled to probe into issues surrounding sacred music in of notre dame,” carmen-helena Tellez, co-director of contemporary life is without parallel.” the festival, said. “it is also an auspicious moment for The conference also features concerts by faculty our young sacred music program, which aspires to be members, pomerium and aguavá new music studio 

The single from the album, “This head throughout the song. keyboards (this time, mostly organ 
By LIZZIE SCHROFF 

scene writer i hold” is infectiously groovy. seriously. The following track, “waves” begins sounds) and easy rocking drums. 
There’s no other way i can describe it. i with a carnivalesque organ riff. The The album effectively strikes a bal­
i have long been trying to bring the use cannot help but get up and dance to this cheery melody, Taccone’s falsetto and ance between both up-tempo and of the word “groovy” back. i think it’s a song. what’s more, the long-form music quick, perky drums are oddly supple-slower, steadier rhythms. asa Taccone’s wonderful word, and i don’t understand video of the track is delightfully quirky mented by rather sad lyrics. “oh, my vocals also give an even spread of fal­why people don’t use it much anymore. with a rather unexpected twist. i defi-mind, is all / washed away, all away / setto without overdoing it, often shifting There are some instances where “awe-nitely recommend checking it out. we keep holding on / To the everlasting in and out of his normal range within some” or “sweet” just does not cut it. and The track list continues with “under waves.” (sorry, dude, but if your mind is single tracks (very akin to broken bells). this album is no exception. the gun.” The lyrics bring to the forefront getting washed away, i think that’s good The album was engaging and satisfied 
it’s not surprising that danger mouse the difficult (and very real) struggle of indication that it is time to move on.) my need for both groovy, dance-induc­(i swear, this man is a genius) produced achieving one’s goals and the obstacles next up is the marathon track ing tunes and a little more “chill” music. electric guest’s debut album “mondo”; that stand in the way. vocalist Taccone “Troubleman” at almost nine minutes This only leaves me with one question several of the songs are reminiscent of sings “were we born to be alone?” long. it’s not very often anymore that for you — can you dig it? i certainly can. the style of broken bells, a project that and goes on to state that “everybody bands turn out songs of this length danger mouse took on with The shins’ wants their way in the promised land / (which was certainly common in the Contact Lizzie Schroff at lead vocalist and guitarist James mercer, everybody has to wait in the promised days of led Zeppelin and other classic eschro01@saintmarys.edu 
and feature groovy beats characteristic land.” The smooth piano throughout is rock gods), which is probably one of the of many gnarls barkley songs. but band a definite highlight. reasons why i like this song so much. 
“Mondo” 
members asa Taccone and matthew The beat picks up with the next song, The track effortlessly glides in and out of 
Electric Guest 
compton  (brothers Todd and Tory “awake.” it features a rocking and catchy slower drumless sections featuring just dahlhoff play on tour with the band) bass line, rhythmic acoustic guitar and the guitar and keyboards, and a steadily 
Label: Downtown Records 
manage to establish their own sound on airy harmonized chorus. The tempo rocking beat supported by backing vo-
Tracks: “Holes,” “Awake,” “Troubleman” 
“mondo.” then slows down a bit on the more sere-cals and a great melody. The album begins with “holes,” a nading “amber”, which is highlighted by The easygoing “american daydream” 
If you like: Electric Six, Gnarls Barkley 
highly synthesized, electronic track the prevalent use of keyboard electron-leads into the final track “control,” 
and Maroon 5 
with a steady beat and bass, which really ics, particularly during the chorus. The which brings meshes all of the com-allows lead singer asa Taccone’s vocals tempo kicks right back up again with mon features of the album — harmo­to stand out on their own. “The bait,” featuring plenty of effects nizing, echoing vocals, solid bass line, 

BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 


The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR  
THURSDAY  FRIDAY  SATURDAY  SUNDAY  

 
 
 
 
What: acousticafe Where: badin porch When: 10:00 p.m. How Much: free come to the badin porch to­night and listen to some of t he best student performers on ca mpus play some of t heir fa­vorite songs live. acousticafe is a g reat place to ha ng out w ith f riends, rela x and unw ind f rom all of t he week’s work.  What: The merchant of venice Where: washington hall When: 7:30 p.m. How Much: $12 for students actors from the london stage are coming to campus this weekend to perform one of shakespeare’s most provoca­tive comedies. “The merchant of venice” is a powerful play about the search for love, power and justice. don’t miss it!  What: sub movie: The avengers Where: debartolo hall 101 When: 9:30 p.m. How Much: $3 marvel’s greatest super heroes team up to save the world in one of this summer’s most popular films, “The avengers.” The movie has a great plot and special effects. go with a group of friends and watch iron man, the incredible hulk, Thor, captain america, hawkeye and black widow unite and over­come evil. it’s a must-see!  What: women’s soccer vs. cincinnati When: 1:00 p.m. Where: Joyce stadium How Much: free for students finish off your weekend cheer­ing for the irish at a lumni stadium. bring all of your en-erg y and spirit to the soccer field and support our wom­en’s soccer team as they beat cincinnati.  


phantom of the opera,” channels his
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
role from “300,” the bloodthirsty King leonidas, in this mind-binding war 
if you liked “inglorious basterds,” film. anything with ralph fiennes or from the previews, the film looks gerard butler in the lead roles, or any-like a gritty, stylized exposition of thing that has a lot of blood, violence shakespeare’s political commentary and shakespeare, you will like this and view on the public figure. The movie. note: This should be everyone. shots focus on fiennes’ and butler’s 
coriolanus, a 2011 british film adap-faces quite a lot, and it promises some tation of shakespeare’s tragedy of the thundering battle scenes. same name, is set in a modern-day al-The film hasn’t been released yet ternate reality of rome. The first-time in u.s. theaters, but it will be playing director, ralph fiennes, plays caius tonight at debartolo performing arts martius, rome’s military genius, center. don’t pass up this opportunity and gerard butler is Tullus aufidius, to be one of the first to see this movie. martius’s mortal enemy. civil riots it will give you hipster bragging rights rock the city as martius and aufidius once it tops the charts. battle it out for popular favorite. 
when it comes to shakespeare, this Contact Meghan Thomassen at isn’t fiennes’s first rodeo. not only has mthomass@nd.edu 
scene writer 

he starred in the royal shakespeare company, but he also won a Tony award for his role as hamlet on broadway. fiennes brings his signa­ture intensity and gravitas to this al­ready ground-shaking shakespeare revamp. 
On Campus 
although most of us know him as 
What: “Coriolanus” 
lord voldemort, fiennes has demon-
Where: Browning Cinema
strated his acting virtuosity in classics such as “schindler’s list,” “The english 
When: Thursday, September 13 
patient” and “The constant gardner.” 
How Much: $4 for students
he has been nominated twice for the academy award and is slated to play 
Learn More: performingarts.nd.edu 
magwitch in “great expectations,” which is due to open in 2012. 
butler, the scottish rogue who got his start as the phantom in Joel shumacher’s adaptation of “The 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

mlb gives too many chances 

Matthew Robison 
sports writer 
when the regular season ends after 162 grueling games in a few weeks, the mlb playoffs will start. The annual “hunt for october” is already underway with teams clawing and scratch­ing for the postseason. of the four major leagues, the mlb allows the fewest teams into postseason play, which makes the quest to keep a season alive even more daunting. 
That is exactly how it should be. 
but last year, bud selig and the rest of the league’s authorities made it slightly easier to get in. when the regular season is said and done this year, two teams in each league will earn wild card bids. but that doesn’t mean they get to compete for the title. That means they get to play a 163rd game. 
even if one team finishes five games ahead of the next closest team in the wild card race, one game will decide who advances they win all their regular season games and finish the year unde­feated. hockey and basketball lie at the other: half the teams get in. 
baseball was pleasantly at the happy medium: three division winners and one wild card team in each league. Three rounds, the last being the world series. it was perfect. 
hopefully, the top two teams in the wild card in both leagues have the same record. That way, i won’t have to tear my hair out watching a team barely over .500 get a shot at the world series. my hometown orioles could be that lucky team that advances with­out earning it. or, they could be the team knocked out of con­tention because they had a bad night in a one-game playoff with an inferior opponent. 
but as it is, i will probably be left disappointed by the results. i understand the argument that can be made from the opposite side. This year, the l.a. Kings finished eighth in the western conference in the nhl and end­ed up winning their first-ever 

  When the regular season is said and done this year, two teams in each league will earn wild card bids. But that doesn’t mean they get to compete for the title. 
to the league divisional series. That is obscene. 
several times, teams have finished the season tied in the wild card. in those cases, it is perfectly acceptable to have those teams play one game for all the marbles. 
Theoretically, a team who finished third in their respec­tive division can win the world series. To me, that is just wrong. i suppose the same can hap­pen in the nfl playoffs because of the two wild card spots, but teams really have to earn their way to the super bowl. in the mlb playoffs, teams only have to pitch their top three starters. They can put their bottom two starters in the bullpen. it’s a whole different game. 
personally, i think the regular season is a test as to who de­serves to play in the postseason. previously, that was a valid test in baseball. college football lies at one end of the spectrum, with the regular season lock­ing teams out of a shot at the national championship, even if stanley cup. in that case, i will concede that they played their best hockey at the end of the season when it counted most. but, i do not agree that they even deserved to be in the playoffs. 
The same argument can be made for the ncaa men’s bas­ketball tournament. There is an annual debate there, as well: who’s in, who’s out? The selec­tion is inherently subjective, but undoubtedly there are teams who do not deserve to get in every year. 
now, i’m all for making the playoffs a true test of a team’s mettle before the national (or world) championship is given away. 
but to allow too many teams to compete for it is a disservice to the regular season and the game. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA BASKETBALL 

Connecticut’s Calhoun to announce retirement 
Associated Press 

new yorK — connecticut men’s basketball coach Jim calhoun is retiring and plans to announce his decision on Thursday, a person familiar with the decision told The associated press. 
The person spoke to the ap on condition of anonym­ity because the announce­ment had not yet been made public. 
assistant coach Kevin ollie was expected to replace calhoun, the person said. 
calhoun led the uconn program from obscurity to three national champion­ships, but has struggled re­cently with health issues, including a fractured hip last month that has forced him to come to work on crutches. 
The 70-year-old calhoun won 873 games in 40 years as a head coach, first at northeastern and the last 26 years at uconn, and put four teams in the final four, win­ning national titles in 1999, 2004 and 2011. 
calhoun, who was elected to the basketball hall of fame in 2005, is a three-time can­cer survivor and missed eight games last season while suf­fering from a painful spinal condition. he returned just four days after having back surgery to coach the huskies in their regular-season finale and the postseason. 
uconn finished the year 20-14, losing to iowa state in the first-round of the ncaa tournament. The huskies are ineligible for next year’s 
FOR SALE 

Michigan tickets 45 yard line 4 together. Call 609-471-9511 
WANTED 

After-school Care Needed Seeking female college student to pick up two children from school in South Bend, bring to home in Mishawaka, and supervise homework. Hours 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. (the latest). Call 574-274-3778 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
‘Calling Baton Rouge’ by Garth Brooks 
I spent last night in the arms Of a girl in Louisiana 
And though I’m out on the highway My thoughts are still with her 
Such a strange combination of a woman and a child 
Such a strange situation stoppin’ every hundred miles Callin’ Baton Rouge 
A replay of last night’s events Roll through my mind 
Except a scene or two Erased by sweet red wine 


ncaa and big east tourna­ments because of poor aca­demic performance. 
in addition to his medi­cal leave, calhoun served a three-game suspension at the start of the big east sea­son last winter for failing to maintain an atmosphere of compliance in his program, an issued that dated back to recruiting violations in 2008. 
Then, last month, he un­derwent successful surgery to repair a left hip fracture from a bicycle accident. he was cycling near his summer home in madison when he hit sand and fell, hours before he was to coach former players in a charity game. 
calhoun, a native of braintree, mass., played col­lege basketball at american international in springfield, where he was a team captain and leading scorer his junior and senior years. 
after graduating in 1968, he began his head coach­ing career at old lyme high school, before moving back to massachusetts where he coached at westport high 
school  and  then  dedham  
high school.  
after  leading  dedham  

to a 21-1 record in 1972, he was hired as head coach at northeastern. 
calhoun spent the next 14 years at the school, lead­ing the team from division ii program, to a mid-major power with five appearances in the ncaa tournament. 
calhoun was then hired by uconn in may 1986 and won an niT title in his second season. his teams won 10 big east regular-season champi­onships and seven big east Tournament titles over his tenure. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
And I see a truck stop sign ahead So I change lanes 
I need a cup of coffee And a couple dollars change Callin’ Baton Rouge 
Operator won’t you put me on through I gotta’ send my love down to Baton Rouge 
Hurry up won’t you put her on the line I gotta’ talk to the girl just one more time 
Hello Samantha dear, I hope you’re feelin’ fine 
And it won’t be long until I’m with you all the time 
But until then I’ll spend my money up right down to my last dime 
Callin’ Baton Rouge 



NFL 

Fujita returns to Browns after suspension lifted 
Associatd Press 
berea, ohio  — back where he belonged, scott fujita ran free. 
disentangled, for the moment, from a legal straitjacket threat­ening his reputation and career, the browns linebacker practiced without worry wednesday. his three-game suspension over­turned, but his legal fight not yet over, fujita was again around teammates who never doubted him — and who missed him. 
“we felt his presence,” safety 
T.J. ward said. “he was out there making a lot of noise, running around like he was a rookie, making jokes. it’s really good to have him back.” 
fujita practiced for the first time since an appeals panel re­nounced a three-game nfl sus­pension he received for his role in the saints’ bounty scandal. The 33-year-old fujita played 
paid adverTisemenT 


from 2006-09 for new orleans. 
The outspoken fujita, who has maintained that he never contributed money to a pay-for­pain pool, plans to meet with commissioner roger goodell to discuss his case. fujita would not discuss any details of the upcoming meeting, which will probably take place next week, but he believes a resolution is approaching. 
“i’m always an upbeat, glass-half-full kind of guy,” he said. “i feel good about it. when and where, i don’t know yet. i’ve just got to let the process run its course.” 
fujita began serving his suspension last week. he was barred from the browns’ facility, forcing him to work out at near­by baldwin wallace university, where he could hear the whistle tweets from cleveland’s coaches during practice. he hoped all along he would be eligible to 
play in week 1, and on friday his suspension, along with penalties against saints line­backer Jonathan vilma, de­fensive end will smith and free agent anthony hargrove, were overturned. 
but while the ruling went in fujita’s favor, it came too late for him to show coach pat shurmur he was fully re­covered from a leg injury that kept him out of cleveland’s last three preseason games. 
paid adverTisemenT 


he didn’t play in sunday’s sea­son opener at home against philadelphia. 
“if that decision came six or seven hours sooner, i could have gotten on the field and shown that everything was fine,” fujita said. “Then it’s a different story.” 


goodell, whose authority to punish the suspended players was questioned by the panel, wants to meet with fujita and the others “as soon as possible.” 
fujita would welcome an end­ing to this lengthy ordeal, which has affected his family, liveli­hood and given the league a po­tentially permanent black eye. 
“i really am,” he said of a pos­sible conclusion. “we don’t know what’s ahead or what’s coming down the road. from the very beginning i felt opti­mistic. i knew it was a process. obviously, i wish it could have been resolved a while back, so it’s not a distraction for anybody, but i’ve got to block all that out and just focus on the cincinnati bengals (sunday’s opponent). That’s the best thing i can do at this point, control what i can control.” 
shurmur would not commit to fujita moving back into the starting lineup. however, with a young linebacking corps, the browns can’t afford to be with­out fujita’s experience and he’ll likely line up at the strongside spot next to d’Qwell Jackson, who was thrilled to have his sidekick back. 
“it’s definitely a comfort zone,” Jackson said. “The guy has been through a lot, and to have him back out here and fo­cused on football and not have to worry about outside distrac­tions means the world to us.” 
fujita’s return comes at a great time for the browns, who will be without cornerback Joe haden for the next four games. 
haden was suspended monday for violating the league’s policy on performance-enhancing drugs. he won’t be eligible to return until oct. 8, and with two division games, three on the road and a matchup with the super bowl-champion new york giants between now and then, the browns have their hands full. 
“Joe’s a hard guy to replace,” fujita said. “it’s going to be tough on him and tough on us. we have to have guys step up and rise to the occasion.” 
To a man, fujita’s teammates believe he has done just that during months of intense scruti­ny since the saints’ scandal first became public. 
To some, the former saint is a sinner. 
and while others question him, fujita has remained res­olute. he hasn’t wavered or weakened. 
The scandal’s weight hasn’t flattened him. 
“This is a national and world­wide issue,” browns tight end ben watson said. “it’s something that has grown and grown, and he’s always maintained his in­nocence. his story has never changed. he’s always been forthright and honest with ev­erything that he could be honest with as far as the facts go. 
“he has a wife, kids, a mom and dad and his family has had to live with this whole thing. i don’t want to speak for him, but i would imagine that’s been the hardest thing as this thing has dragged on. There have been ac­cusations and shots to his repu­tation. he’s handled it very well, probably better than i would. he came to work every day, he’s stood up against it and fought as good as he could.” 


The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NFL 

Tebow’s role with Jets remains unclear after debut 

Associated Press 
florham parK, n.J. — Tim Tebow ran out onto the field for the new york Jets’ first offensive play of the season as a starter. 
not at quarterback, of course. That’s mark sanchez’s job. but in his Jets debut last sunday, there was Tebow lined up on the right side of the line as a slot receiver — officially listed as a tight end. 
The crowd cheered, Tebow ran a harmless route and then head­ed back to the sideline. a sprin­kling of Tebow and the wildcat package turned out to be more than enough in a 48-28 rout of the bills. 
“i’m definitely competitive, but the no. 1 thing to help com­petitiveness is winning football games,” said Tebow, who was in­volved in only 10 of the Jets’ offen­sive snaps. “however i can help this team to win football games, that’s the ultimate goal.” 
That’s coming from a guy who has always expressed a desire to be a starting quarterback in the nfl, and led denver to the play­offs in that role after earning the job last season. 
with the Jets, at least through the first game, he’s merely a con­tributor who ran five times for 11 yards and didn’t throw a pass. but he’s a player who gives opponents fits because they have to plan for him, regardless. That includes pittsburgh, which might see Tebow maybe as little as buffalo did. steelers coach mike Tomlin knows better, though, than to brush off Tebow’s presence. 
“That’s something that they control, from a play-calling stand­point,” Tomlin said wednesday. “i know that we better be pre­pared for more than what i saw him do in the game on sunday.” 
after all, Tomlin and the steelers have seen him do a lot more. Tebow knocked them out of the playoffs last season with an 80-yard touchdown pass to demaryius Thomas in overtime in denver last season. 
“obviously, he’s a capable passer,” Tomlin said. “That’s an element of it that we need to be prepared for.” 
and that is exactly why the Jets — particularly coach rex ryan, general manager mike Tannenbaum, offensive coordi­nator Tony sparano and owner woody Johnson — wanted Tebow on their team. 
some have said new york’s trade for the quarterback in march was purely a publicity stunt. The Jets have said it makes them a better offense, one with an unpredictable presence that might be unmatched in the en­tire league. after all, Tebow is a 6-foot-3, 250-pound, rock-solid guy who can run it, toss it or throw a block — as he did on a few special teams plays last week. 
The element of surprise is part of the playbook, and one that can’t be overlooked. Just because the Jets used him sparingly in week 1 doesn’t mean there won’t 

be a whole lot of Tebow Time this  Tebow has consistently said  handle some of the stuff he goes  
sunday at pittsburgh, or next  all the right things since coming  through, but it’s fun to talk about  
week at miami, and so on.  to new york, refusing to add any  in the quarterbacks room.”  
“we’re never going to put a  fuel to the fire by saying he wants  Tebow is still undoubtedly the  
number out there,” ryan said of  to be out there more or thinks he  biggest personality on the team,  
what percentage of plays made  could do more. sanchez, to his  and very possibly the most popu­ 
for Tebow were used against the  credit, has also been careful with  lar athlete in the entire new york  
bills. “we’re going to leave it as is.  what he has said when it comes  sports scene. whether his impact  
it will always be in the game plan.  to Tebow, and entered the season  on the field matches all that hype,  
we’ll see how much we need to  more focused than ever.  well, that’s for opponents to find  
use it, how little we’ll do and how  “i think he’s handled every- out.  
much we’ll do. it’ll obviously de­ thing well,” sanchez said of  from week to week, game by  
pend on what we think is in our  Tebow, whom he considers a  game.  
best interest.  friend. “he’s really come in and fit  “whenever you get called on,  
“will it vary from week to week?  in with our team. he’s tried to be  you want to be able to go in there  
it probably will, but teams need  a team guy all the way. he under- and be effective and efficient,  
to prepare for it.”  stands that he’s going to get op- and you want to help the team  
Tebow ran only two true wild­ portunities to touch the football  to try and get a victory,” Tebow  
cat plays against the bills, with  and when he does, he wants to  said. “you do that by creating first  
sanchez lined up at wideout.  make the most of them. ... if i were  downs and hopefully being able  
most of his other snaps came out  in his shoes, i don’t know how i’d  to get in the end zone.”  
of the read-option, and for only  
the fifth time in his nfl career,  paid adverTisemenT  
he didn’t throw a pass in a game  
in which he has played.  
he even got surprisingly booed  
for the first time as a member of  
the Jets when he failed to gain  
anything on a second-and-6 play  
from the bills 12. some fans and  
media reasoned that it might  
have taken away from the rhythm  
sanchez was in with the offense  
at that point, forcing Tebow into  
the mix unnecessarily.  
“it’s something that i’ve had  
to do before,” Tebow said of his  
various roles. “my first year in  
denver and my first four games  
last year, and also my freshman  
year at florida, i had a role similar  
to this.”  
but he’s also coming off a magi­ 
cal season in which he had come­ 
back after comeback and was the  
starting quarterback for a playoff  
team.  
“This is a new opportunity, a  
new team and i’m excited to be  
here,” he said. “i’m not looking  
back at the past. i’m just trying to  
do the best i can with the present  
and look forward to the future.”  

paid adverTisemenT 



belles open conference play against olivet 

By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
Just like last year, the belles went undefeated through non-conference play. and just like last year, the belles (2-0-1) will try to kick off the miaa calendar with a win against olivet when the teams square off Thursday in olivet, mich. 
in 2011, saint mary’s started the season 4-0 before down­ing the comets 3-0 to extend its season-opening win streak to five games. belles coach michael Joyce said his squad is hoping to do the same Thursday. 
“we beat olivet twice last year, so it is an important game for us,” Joyce said. “it’s important for us to get a result.” 
in order to have a similar out­come this time around against the comets (0-4), Joyce said saint mary’s will need to ramp up its energy level. 
“i think we’ll have to raise our intensity when it comes to our conference matches,” Joyce said. “so that will be a big thing for us on Thursday: getting up for the intensity of conference play.” 
The belles rolled through non-conference action with a sparkling combined score of 7-0, including a dominant 6-0 vic­tory against holy cross on sept. 
4. saint mary’s outshot the saints 44-8 and netted goals from six different players. The six goals were the most scored by a saint mary’s team since the 2009 season. 
Joyce said the key against holy cross was getting the whole team involved in the offensive attack. freshman midfielders Kathryn 
paid adverTisemenT 


lueking, maggie mclaughlin and rachel schulte all scored goals, while the other three goals came from a trio of forwards. Joyce said he is looking for the belles to generate a similarly balanced team offense against olivet. 
“against holy cross we had a lot of our midfielders and backs getting involved in the attack,” Joyce said. “so hopefully we’ll look for those opportunities against olivet and create a team attack rather than just leav­ing it up to the forwards. i think that went very well against holy cross.” 
The belles also possessed the ball against the saints and pa­tiently waited for the right op­portunity to lay the ball off to an open teammate, Joyce said. 
“against holy cross, we were also very smart with the ball,” Joyce said. “They play with a very high offside trap, trying to catch you offside. There was great rec­ognition from our player to stay onside, and to pick the right play­er on a through ball.” 
at the other end of the pitch, saint mary’s has been equally consistent in its three shutouts. against olivet, a team that has yet to score in four games, the belles will be looking for another strong outing from the back line. 
“we have some very talented players back there,” Joyce said. “we returned almost everyone from last year on the defensive line, so experience and cohesion 
SMC VOLLEYBALL | 3-1 
help. our goalkeeper, [sopho­more] chanler rosenbaum has been playing really well. not giv­ing up too many goals should be a strength for us all season.” 
so far, the defense has been one of the strengths for the belles. The team is only giving up an av­erage of 9.7 shots per game, with just 5.7 shots on goal per game. 
rosenbaum and fellow sophomore goalies hannah bruggeman and nicole papiernik have combined for 290 minutes of shutout goalkeep­ing. rosenbaum got the start in each of the first two games of the season and recorded 11 saves. bruggeman and papiernik split the goaltending duties against holy cross, and combined for six saves in the shutout. 
a year ago in the conference opener against the comets, rosenbaum — then a freshman 
— got the start and recorded her first shutout in the 3-0 win. 
The belles are hoping for a similar result this year, Joyce said, but they know that no win is guaranteed. 
“it would really be a step back­wards not to come out of our first game with a win,” Joyce said. “but no conference match is easy.” 
saint mary’s attempts to re­main undefeated Thursday when it takes on olivet at 4 p.m. at the cutler athletic complex. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

saint mary’s defeats adrian 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s scored a huge conference win wednesday night, downing adrian 3-1 on its home court. 
saint mary’s (6-1, 2-1 miaa) won the first game by a score of 25-16, dropped the second game 25-19 and came back to win the third and fourth games 25-19 and 25-12, respectively. 
The belles took an early lead in the first set, jumping out to an 8-6 advantage. from that point on, the first set was all belles as the home team went on a 17-10 run to end the game. The belles’ offense hit .382 in the first game. 
The second set went to the vis­itors, as the bulldogs (4-5, 0-4) used 13 kills on 34 attempts to thwart the belles. saint mary’s was not able to pull within four points for the duration of the game. 
in the third set, saint mary’s stormed out to a 6-1 lead and did not look back the rest of the match. The belles used five aces during the match to swing the tide in their favor. 
The belles were able to close off the match in the fourth set, using a 10-4 run to start the game.  The home team extend­ed its lead to 18-9 and never looked back, taking the set 25­12 to close out the match. 
saint mary’s is off to its best start since 2006, and will next travel to carthage this weekend for the carthage Tournament. 



The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Laddish and Roccaro return to face Louisville 

a midfielder and one of the irish tri-captains, will provide notre dame with a boost of talent and experience in the midfield. and as one of the leaders on a team with 18 underclassmen, 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
after bringing pride to both their college and their coun­try by winning the women’s under-20 world cup, junior mandy laddish and freshman cari roccaro will look to contin­ue their success when they swap out the stars and stripes for their familiar blue and gold jerseys this weekend. 
while representing the united states on the international stage in Japan, both players had a large impact on the american victory. roccaro, a freshman, started four of the team’s six games at center back, locking the university, themselves and their families — and the u.s. in general,” he said. “i feel like a proud parent. They’re two great players, and two great kids, and i couldn’t be happier for them.” 
The pair returned from nearly a monthlong stay in asia this week, but will have little time to bask in the victory as notre dame (3-3-1) dives into its big east schedule this weekend, beginning with a nationally televised game against rival louisville on friday. but even on such a short timeline, waldrum wants to ensure that his players have time to recover and reenter into life on campus. 
“The only real worry i have 

“Being the head coach at Notre Dame, I can’t tell you how proud I am of those two, and how well they’ve represented the University, themselves and their families — and the 
U.S. in general.” 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
down the back line despite being one of the youngest players on the squad. 
laddish, meanwhile, was a key substitute for the united states, coming in during the second half to boost the team to a championship. both roccaro and laddish were on the field when the final whistle sounded in the final, a moment that irish coach randy waldrum cher­ished back home. 
“being the head coach at notre dame, i can’t tell you how proud i am of those two, and how well they’ve represented with them is the time change,” he said. “we’re struggling with it as a team after playing on the west coast, and they just got off a 12-hour flight from Japan. so we’ll have to see how they do with that fatigue, plus the fact that they’ve missed three weeks of classes, and they’re trying to catch up in those. so we’ll need to make sure they get enough rest and time to deal with all that.” 
however, when they do re­turn to the irish lineup, the pair will make an immediate and sorely-needed impact. laddish, the latter might be her biggest contribution. 
“she’ll calm that young mid­field down, and really solidify that position for us. i can’t even begin to tell you how important that will be, not only on the field of play, but with her attitude as well,” waldrum said. “clearly but right now the challenge for the irish coaches will be to figure out where. listed as a forward/ midfielder/defender, few players are more versatile than roccaro, who is ranked as one of the top five freshmen nationwide. 
for waldrum, fitting the fresh­man into the jigsaw puzzle of the 

“I’m excited to see how Cari and Mandy do 
this weekend.” 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
we’ve missed her in the midfield as somebody that makes really good decisions with the ball and helps us keep the ball and main­tain possession. she’s so talent­ed and gifted with the ball, and we’ve really kind of lacked that.” 
roccaro, on the other hand, will be the least experience col­legiate player on the field, as she has yet to play a game for the irish. however, waldrum has no doubt that she has the talent to make her presence immediately felt. 
“she’s got a real good skill set, and she’s a big strong player as well,” waldrum said. “she’s cer­tainly going to be in our eleven, there’s no doubt about it. getting her back gives us another starter on the team.” 
roccaro may be a fixture in the irish lineup for years to come, 
paid adverTisemenT 
irish lineup might require some trial and error. 
“i think we’re going to try cari in a couple of different spots, because we can certainly play her defensively like she did with the world cup team, but we may even take a look with her at for­ward, because we could use a little help scoring goals,” he said. “it may take us a couple of games to figure out the best spot for her, but she definitely has a big role for us. i’m excited to see how cari and mandy do this weekend.” 
laddish and roccaro will make their return and debut, respectively, in the irish lineup this friday, when notre dame takes on louisville at 4 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 





Waldrum 
conTinued from page 20 
head coach, waldrum said the impact will be felt well beyond just women’s soccer. 
“of any conference we could have chosen to go to this is the one i was hoping for,” waldrum said. “i can’t say enough how proud and happy i am. hats off to Jack [swarbrick] for pulling this one off — an absolute coup for all our olympic sports.” 
Men’s Lacrosse 
The irish will enter arguably the most storied conference in la­crosse history, as notre dame will join the likes of north carolina, virginia, duke, maryland and, eventually, syracuse in the acc. 
irish coach Kevin corrigan said he is very excited to enter the conference for both its schedul­ing and recruiting impacts. 
“it means we’re going to be in the single best conference in college lacrosse,” corrigan said in a statement. “it’s huge from a scheduling standpoint, from a competitive standpoint and from a recruiting standpoint. it’s a tre­mendously competitive league and a very exciting league to be a part of.” 
virginia has won five national championships, north carolina has won four, maryland has won two and appeared in nine other title games, and duke has won one title in three tries. 
syracuse, which will join the acc in July 2013, leads all division i ncaa men’s lacrosse programs with 10 national championships. 
notre dame will be joining a conference that, between those five teams, boasts 22 of the 41 national championship trophies. corrigan, who led notre dame to a final four appearance last year, said the irish hope to reach their objective of winning a na­tional title of their own. 
“our goal in recruiting, sched­uling and everything else has been towards trying to win a national championship and that’s not going to change,” corrigan said. “is it going to be a great challenge year in and year out to play the sched­ule of the acc? of course it is. but it’s the challenge we relish and are looking forward to. i couldn’t be more excited about all the possibilities of this move. 
Baseball 
in the summer of 2010, irish coach mik aoki left the acc and his head coaching position of four years at boston college to head to the big east and notre dame. Just over two years later, aoki was told he would be moving back to the conference he calls the best in america for baseball. 
“i’m really excited about it,” he said. “The acc is one of the true power conferences in baseball. in the past decade, there have been a number of times where they are in the top two or three in rpi in the country. it’s also a message to the kids that they will be able to compete academically at notre dame and compete ath­letically in the best baseball con­ference in america.” 
aoki led the eagles to their first ncaa regional appearance in 42 years in 2009 and took boston college to its first two acc tour­naments in 2009 and 2010. he said there is a simply a differ­ent vibe when it comes to acc baseball. 
“The biggest impact it has is in terms of speaking for the base­ball athletes’ overall experience. The level of competition in the acc is in the upper tier of col­lege baseball. on the road it is going to be abundantly clear that baseball is important to these universities and to the athletic department. 
“and from a recruiting stand­point it helps as well. notre dame gets you in the door as far as academics go. but joining the acc allows us to have a marriage of two great brands, two very powerful brands.” 
Men’s Soccer 
after over 11 seasons in the big east conference in which his teams averaged over 12 wins per season, irish coach bobby clark said he has mixed emotions re­garding notre dame’s move to the acc. 
“it’s hard obviously,” clark said. “it’s a bittersweet situation. The big east has been a really good soccer conference in this country and we’ve made a lot of friends in a very competitive conference. having said that, the acc has been the cadillac of soc­cer conferences in the u.s., al­though [the big east] has pushed it recently.” 
while he said he will miss the big east, clark said he thinks the move to the acc is a good one overall for notre dame. 
“i think it’s a good move for possibly all our sports,” clark said. “[The acc] is a very good athletic conference and it’s a good fit academically for notre dame as well. There are a lot of positives.” 
as for recruiting, clark said the irish have always been able to allure top talent, but joining the acc definitely will not hurt them. 
“i think we’ve always been able to recruit, but it’s certainly not a negative because the acc is the top conference in the country,” clark said. “we’ve always ar­gued that. i think notre dame has been able to compete well with any team in the conference. [notre dame] is a special brand. it doesn’t matter even if we’re independent.” 
clark said all things consid­ered, he is excited for the future of notre dame athletics, espe­cially men’s soccer. 
“overall this is exciting news for men’s soccer and for college sports in general,” clark said. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu and Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
ACC 
conTinued from page 17 
keep traditional rivalries and go around the country.” 
The move also allows the irish to join the acc’s non-bcs bowl tie-ins. prior to this sea­son, the irish had limited bowl options after accepting an in­

“When we joined the Big East, we were the lone outpost out here.” 
Mike Brey Irish men’s basketball coach 
vitation to the champs sports bowl last season. The acc cur­rently has seven bowl tie-ins. 
Joining the acc will not im­pact notre dame’s relationship with nbc sports, as the irish will retain all revenue from home football games. notre dame’s football contract with nbc expires in 2015. in other sports, including basketball, notre dame will split the rev­enue as an equal member. 
The irish men’s basketball program will join a league that contains perennial powers duke and north carolina and will add old big east rivals syracuse and pittsburgh. 
“The opportunity to go to the big east is a great, exciting challenge,” irish coach mike brey said. “i’m an acc guy at heart. being down [in north carolina today] with Jack and fr. John on Tobacco road 
brought back a lot of memories. 
“when we joined the big east, we were the lone outpost out here … and we’re the lone outpost again. i kind of like that.” 
The acc also has several different schools that line up with notre dame, academi­cally. The league contains eight schools ranked in u.s. news and world report’s top 50 universities. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WAKING THE ECHOES | paT dillingham 
Former QB recalls late win over Spartans in ‘02 

Swarbrick 
conTinued from page 20 
weather the past two-plus years and come away in an even bet­ter situation is a testament to swarbrick’s leadership. call me crazy, but i doubt notre dame would be in this position if Kevin white were still in charge of irish athletics. 
“This approach allows us to help promote acc football while maintaining our traditional ri­valries and a national schedule,” swarbrick said. 
football independence? check. 
national scheduling? check. 
improved bowl tie-ins? check. 
swarbrick made out like a bandit in a series of events that will impact notre dame for de­cades to come. 
at first glance, some will pos­tulate that notre dame has es­sentially surrendered its football independence with the annual five-game acc commitment, but they are wrong. 
essentially, the irish have par­ticipated in a form of this agree­ment the past two seasons, and adding a couple more — notre dame will play each acc school at least once every three years 
— will hardly cripple a pro­gram’s ability to schedule usc, michigan, stanford, michigan state and navy on a consis­tent basis. if anything, it will eliminate the scheduling head-scratchers like western michigan to break your route off and run a quick slant.’” 
dillingham finished the game 3-for-6 for 84 yards after tak­ing over for injured quarterback carlyle holiday, who hurt his shoulder in the third quarter. 
“i really didn’t have time to think, it was just strap it up and get out there,” dillingham said. “it was just time to go out there and play football. 
“it was go out and execute on these plays and do what you’ve been taught in practice. after the fact, it hit me but i kind of just got thrown in there and had to go with it.” 
The following week, sports illustrated featured receiver maurice stovall and the irish on the cover with the text ‘return to glory.’ 
“guys saw it on magazine stands and we were all excited about it. To be on the cover of sports illustrated was a huge deal and the guys were excited about it,” dillingham said. 
The irish rode their quick start to eight wins to open the season. notre dame rose as high in the rankings as no. 4 following a win at florida state. 
“coach willingham had us believing that it was only a mat­ter of how we were going to win and not if we were going to win,” dillingham said. “To have a new coach and a new offense just shows how much attitude plays into everything. we truly be­lieved we could win every game we went into.” 
while the 8-0 start sticks out to most irish fans, dillingham picks out one moment as the best in his notre dame career — when willingham awarded the then-preferred walk-on a scholarship after the 2002 season. 
“i took it as a sign that he trust­ed my work ethic, my role on the team. it was one of the greatest moments i’ve ever had in my whole life. it meant the world coming from him,” dillingham said. “it was awesome. it shows a sign of confidence from him and certifying my role on the team amongst my peers, my 
(2010), south florida (2011) and massachusetts (2015). 
The most underrated aspect of this agreement is the stabil­ity with non-bcs bowl tie-ins it affords the irish. in 2012, notre dame could theoretically be left out in the dark if it fails to earn a bcs berth and if each conference achieves its bowl quota. with this deal, that’s no longer the case beginning in 2014, as notre dame can substitute an eligible acc squad if the irish are within one win of that team. 
a new year’s eve date with a premier sec school at the chick-fil-a bowl sounds like a better consolation prize for missing out on the bcs than crossing your fingers for the little caesars pizza bowl in detroit, does it not? 
teammates. it was great and it meant everything at the time.” 
despite his walk-on status, dillingham was recruited to notre dame to play football. prior to his arrival, the irish had an abundance of quarterbacks with holiday, battle, godsey, Jared clark and matt lovecchio all manning the position. 
battle, godsey and clark all switched positions while lovecchio transferred to indiana. 
“i knew when i came to notre dame that the class ahead of me had quarterbacks. i was the only guy in my class so, to me, that seemed like a pretty good situa­tion … The positions were shuf­fled around and before you know it, i’m one play away. i was ready as i could be,” dillingham said. 
after graduating from notre dame in december of 2004, dillingham worked in invest­ment banking before attending stanford to receive his masters in business administration (mba). he earned his mba in 2010. 
now, the portola valley, calif., native has a new business ven­ture: a moonshine whiskey busi­ness in nashville, Tenn. with a friend from stanford, dillingham started windy hill spirits, a com­pany yet to launch. 
“we’re excited to make a prod­uct in this country for our gener­ation to be proud of,” dillingham said. “There’s no national brand of moonshine whiskey today. our fathers drink Jack daniels but our generation does not have a whis­key to call our own. we think our generation is the niche.” 
The only difference between the 103-proof moonshine whis­key he will produce and the ones produced in the backwoods is that windy hill spirits has a fac­tory, dillingham said. 
“no one’s really introduced it to the bars across america,” dillingham said. “There’s no bar in south bend you go to get a shot of moonshine or moonshine on the rocks.” 
dillingham, 29, said windy hill spirits should launch within the next year. 
A full transcript of our interview with Pat Dillingham will be available Friday morning at ndsmcobserver.com 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
Editor’s note: This is the third of a new Observer feature. The “Waking the Echoes” series intends to inform fans about some former players and will feature weekly stories profiling them and their lives since Notre Dame. 
brent musburger only had one thing to say: “holy rudy!” 
what else was there to say when former walk-on quarter­back pat dillingham completed a 60-yard pass to receiver arnaz battle against michigan state in 2002? The pass propelled notre dame over the spartans 21-17 and to 4-0 in Tyrone willingham’s first season at the helm. 
dillingham found battle over the middle on a slant route. former irish tight end gary godsey took out two spartans with a block and battle, the con­verted quarterback, did the rest, sprinting untouched into the en­dzone for the winning score. 
“The play was all [go routes], so everyone was running a streak down the field but arnaz was on the strong side of the formation and the strong safety was blitz­ing,” dillingham said. “i was pointing at the strong safety on the play and looking at arnaz. what we were basically saying is ‘if that guy comes, you need 
swarbrick was able to achieve these ends for King football without compromis­ing the health of notre dame’s other athletic programs. in re­ality, wednesday’s agreement strengthens it. 
men’s basketball coach mike brey might never hop off cloud nine. his program jumps from the top basketball conference of old (big east), for the acc, a con­ference steeped in rich tradition with north carolina and duke that has been elevated by the im­pending arrivals of pittsburgh, syracuse and, now, notre dame. 
alignment with like-minded universities? check. 
Top-notch athletic exposure? check. 
recruiting along the eastern seaboard? check. 
There remains just one item on swarbrick’s to-do list, and he’ll need approval from university president fr. John Jenkins to open the pocketbook on this one. 
strike a deal with the big east to allow the irish to forego their final year with the big east. Join the acc along with pittsburgh and syracuse for the 2013-14 season. 
Knowing swarbrick’s track record, my guess is it will get it done. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily tose of The Observer. 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |   lenny rago &             paTricK cross 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: emmy rossum, 26; Jennifer hudson, 31; benja­min mcKenzie, 34; Jennifer nettles, 38. 
Happy Birthday: your changing attitude may confuse others, but as long as you follow your heart and your goals you will come out on top. Taking what’s yours and striving to meet your own criteria will give you the confidence you need to finish what you start and to continue moving in a direction that best suits your needs. your numbers are 6, 13, 20, 27, 32, 35, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): show off. have confidence. it’s your life, so take control and make things happen. if there is something you want, go after it. if there is some­one you want to get to know better, make the effort. Take charge. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep your eyes open for anyone trying to dismantle your plans. you may have to make a last-minute change in order to stay on track and finish what you start. staying calm and showing your professionalism will pay off. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): put time aside for those special people in your life. don’t allow someone’s negativity to spoil your fun. opt to do something that revolves around home and family. fixing up your place or planning a get-together will give you a boost. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): size up your situation before you make any promises or changes. you need to feel comfortable with your surroundings as well as with the people you are dealing with before you make a move. don’t put up with aggressive behavior. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Question why you want to do something before you get started. your motives may be pushing you in a direction that could damage your reputation. watch to see what others do first. Take a practical position that is attain­able. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): put more energy into detail and you will get stellar results. you don’t have to do more, you just have to be precise. uncertainty caused by what others do or say is a waste of time. listen to your heart and follow your intuition. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): lend a helping hand and you will get one in return. love is in the stars, and spending time with someone you find fascinating will lead to new interests and personal goals. a change of heart regarding relationships will result in greater stability. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t get distracted by someone who is possessive, jealous or makes your life complicated. focus on the present and what you need to do in order to feel good about your accomplishments. a creative project will help you move forward. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make whatever adjustment is necessary to add to your earning potential or to turn an investment you have into a profit. Take care of personal business and make alterations to your home and family life that better suit your future goals. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t let added responsibilities cause you to miss out on something that can help you get ahead personally or professionally. you have to take care of business before you tend to those who command your attention. be realistic and stern. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): your unusual desire to do things differently will draw attention. make sure you have the facts to back your plans before you get started. love is in the stars, and making changes to the way you live will do you good. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Too much of anything will backfire. stick to what you know you can afford and handle mentally, emotionally, physically and financially before you make promises or take a one-way path. a partnership may be jeopar­dized. 


Birthday Baby: you are engaging and attract attention. you are unique and respon­sive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Notre Dame moves to ACC 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
notre dame will leave the big east and join the atlantic coast conference (acc) in all sports except football and hock­ey, the university announced wednesday. notre dame will remain independent in football. 
“we have monitored the changing conference landscape for many months and have con­cluded that moving to the acc is the best course of action for us,” director of athletics Jack swarbrick said in a statement. 
“The acc was founded on the cornerstones of balancing academics, athletics and integ­rity,” acc commissioner John swofford said in a statement. “our partnership with notre dame only strengthens this long-standing commitment. notre dame enhances the league’s unique blend of public and private institutions that are international in scope. 
“This is a terrific milestone in the evolution of the acc and showcases tremendous solidar­ity and vision by our council of presidents.” 
The big east has housed all irish non-football and hockey sports for the past 17 years. notre dame has won 116 con­ference titles in the big east, the most of any school since the irish joined the conference in 1995. 
The league requires a $5 mil­lion exit fee and 27 months no­tice in order leave the league. syracuse and pittsburgh, however, have paid higher exit fees to leave the conference ear­ly. They will both join the acc in 2013. 
The acc has 12 current mem­bers — miami, florida state, georgia Tech, clemson, north carolina, north carolina state, duke, wake forest, virginia, virginia Tech, maryland and boston college — stretching up and down the east coast. 
swofford said the acc will not look to add a 16th member for non-football sports. The league will remain at 14 teams and two divisions for football. 
The acc will also implement a new $50 million exit fee, effec­tive immediately and coming after speculation that florida state and clemson could join the big 12. 
with the move, the irish foot­ball program must play five acc opponents each year. notre dame will play each school at least once every three years. This season, the irish football schedule features three current acc members (miami, boston college and wake forest) and one future acc school (pittsburgh). The 2013 football schedule will have feature one acc school — pittsburgh. 
“we’re coming off a couple years where we play four acc schools. we have two years scheduled in the future with four acc teams. i’m not going to say there won’t be any sched­ule changes because there will,” swarbrick said. “we’re going to 
see acc PAGE 17 

other sports see acc as upgrade 
By ANDREW GASTELUM and MIKE MONACO 
sports writers 
with the move to the acc, irish coach randy waldrum won’t have to go out of his way anymore to schedule notre dame’s powerhouse rival north carolina. The Tar heels have won 20 national champion­ships, including five victories over the irish in the college cup final. but notre dame got its revenge in 2010, upsetting the heavily-favored Tar heels in the round of 16 en route to a national championship. 
“i’m ecstatic,” waldrum said. “it’s the best conference in the country for women’s soccer, and the fact that, probably the two best programs in the his­tory of women’s soccer, us and north carolina, are going to get a chance to play each and every year is great for women’s soccer.” 
waldrum said the move also brings a recruiting edge to the irish, who brought in the na­tion’s top recruiting class in 2012.
 “playing in this conference is only going to help us with those very, very top players who want to not only go to a good school with good academics and a good program, but they also want to play against the best competition,” he said.” 
in his 14th season as irish 
see waldrum PAGE 17 

deal is a win for irish, acc 

Andrew Owens 
assistant managing editor 
well, notre dame has done it again. 
eleven days after 35,000 americans traveled overseas to watch the irish play a football game, the university has once again paraded its relevance as a national brand. 
after all, who else could ac­complish what notre dame did on wednesday? 
for years, the atlantic coast conference (acc) had consis­tently and steadfastly rebuffed any notion of partial notre dame membership — it wanted the irish to be all-in or all-out. The conference finally relented wednesday and allowed the fabled football program to remain independent while moving its other athletic teams (except hockey, which will move to hockey east) to the acc. 
maybe it was the threat of los­ing florida state and clemson to the big 12, as has been rumored since the schools were report­edly unimpressed by the latest acc television deal with espn. maybe acc commissioner John swofford and company thought the conference needed to appease notre dame now or watch the irish — and the trail of money behind them — disap­pear forever. 
“notre dame enhances the league’s unique blend of public and private institutions that are international in scope,” swofford said. “The collective alumni and fan bases cover the entire country with exception­ally strong roots up and down the atlantic coast.” 
in this deal, everyone wins. 
well, except the big east. 
with the announcement of five annual notre dame-acc matchups, the conference has guaranteed itself the opportu­nity to pursue a more lucrative television pact. if that doesn’t prevent discouraged members from departing, the newly-in­stalled $50 million departure fee should do the trick. 
but if the deal is a home run for the acc, it’s a walk-off grand slam for notre dame. 
notre dame director of athletics Jack swarbrick has accomplished his top priority during the turbulent times of college football realignment and the tense transition from the bowl championship series to the four-team playoff: preserve football independence. 
That the irish were able to 
see swarbricK PAGE 18 






