
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Gay students discuss coming out at Notre Dame 
Campus environment challenges members of LGBTQ community who wish to publicly disclose sexuality 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 

Editor’s note: This is the sec­ond installment in a three-part series about the experience of LGBTQ students at Notre Dame in light of recent requests that the University grant club sta­tus to a gay-straight alliance. 
Before coming to Notre Dame, senior Jason G’Sell said he anticipated the University would be a place where he could come to terms with his faith and sexuality, where­as in high school, only a few friends knew he was gay. 
“I wanted to go to college and be an out person,” he said. “I wanted people to have this assumption that clearly, I had been out forever.” 
For gay students, college presents the opportunity to start fresh with new friends and a new environment. Yet students said deciding when to come out can be an intense­ly personal decision that often involves overcoming both in­ternal and external boundar­ies. 
Sophomore Mia Lillis said she was prepared to be open about her sexual orientation before coming to Notre Dame, but waited a month into her freshman year to come out be­cause of her experience with freshman orientation. She said after telling her room­mates, word “gradually got out” to the rest of her dorm. 
“[My roommates] were per­fectly awesome with it,” she said. “I didn’t encounter any problems with anyone in the dorm.” 
However, Lillis did encoun­ter some trials in coming out that she said are unique to the campus environment found at Notre Dame. 
“You take on such a big re­sponsibility when you come out here. Not that necessarily you are going to receive a lot of discrimination, but you are taking on the role of educat­


see OUT/page 4 


Ex-worker pleads guilty 
Observer Staff Report 
A former University em­ployee in Notre Dame’s Office of the Registrar pled guilty to four counts of voyeurism last week in the St. Joseph County Superior Court. 
Don G. Steinke was origi­nally charged with one count of voyeurism, but the State of Indiana added three more counts on Feb. 28, according to court documents. 
The state agreed not to file 

see VOYEURISM/page 5 



Community addresses discrimination 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame community met in a town hall meeting to discuss recent in­cidents of racial harassment and to collaboratively address the need to foster a more in­clusive University community Monday night. 
“A Call to Action in Regards to the Discriminatory Inci­dent” came about after the ra­cial harassment of two minor­ity student groups on campus, the Black Student Association (BSA) and the African Stu­dents Association (ASA).  The student body was informed in a Feb. 24 email that within the span of a week, both or­ganizations had fried chicken parts placed in their mailbox­es in the LaFortune Student Center.  

Student body president Pat McCormick said the goal of this meeting was to respond to the incidents and improve the spirit of inclusion and community on campus.
 “This is an opportunity for the community to stand in solidarity, [an opportunity] to look forward and not just to heal, but to effectively expand inclusion in the Notre Dame family more fully,” McCor­mick said. 

see MEETING/page 5 



KPMG executive reflects on ND, career 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
When he received a degree in accounting from Notre Dame in 1977, John Veihmeyer, chair­man and chief executive officer of KPMG LLP, did not antici­pate being an accoun­tant his en­tire career. Thirty-five years later, he’s still in the busi­ness. 
“I had been con­vinced that joining a firm like KPMG was going to give me a lot of opportunities to be exposed to a whole host of things that would help me de­cide what I did want to do,” Vei­hmeyer said. “The important thing is joining a firm that’s going to be open to challenging you in different ways.” 

Veihmeyer visited campus Monday to speak about careers in public accounting and the world marketplace. He met with several faculty members, as well as current students who will work at branches of the Big Four accounting firm this summer. 
Veihmeyer said he makes career decisions by predicting where he will be in five years if he chooses a given option, rather than solely considering short-term goals. 
“Every time I came to that decision, I clearly decided that the path I was on [at KPMG] was going to advance my ca­reer faster and further,” he said. “I think everybody’s ca­reer is a winding road … I think your best decisions are decisions that are made with a three to five year horizon, not with a 12-month horizon.” 
Veihmeyer said people should seek enjoyable careers by eliminating options that do not interest them. 
“What I love to see people do is join organizations that are going to give them that op­portunity to explore a little bit, see what they like,” Veihmeyer said. “If you don’t enjoy it, you’d better find something else to do because you spend too much time in your career to not re­ally love what it is you’re doing. But … I think that’s a journey, not an overnight decision.” 

Young professionals should take responsibility for man­aging their careers without trying to predict every step along the way, Veihmeyer said. Additionally, they should col­laborate with other people, seek out mentors and develop global perspectives by study­ing abroad or interacting with students from other countries. 
Veihmeyer said his Notre Dame experience taught him how to succeed in business 

see KPMG/page 5 


Saint Mary’s announces speaker 
Observer Staff Report 
Businesswoman Mellody Hobson will deliver the 2012 Commencement address and receive an honorary doctor of humanities degree from Saint Mary’s, the College announced Monday. Literacy advocate and businesswoman Kathleen Flynn Fox, a 1974 Saint Mary’s alumna, will also be awarded 


see SPEAKER/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Leaders discuss CrimeReport page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Commencement speakers page 8 u Women’s basketball advances to championship page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, March 6, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU MOST EXCITED ABOUT FOR SPRING BREAK? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Kristen Durbin Sam Gans Marisa Iati Joe Wirth Adam Llorens Isaac Lorton Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Maija Gustin Photo Viewpoint Mackenzie Sain Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 54 LOW 43 


D.J. Boyd  Alex Jarocki  Lilia Draine  Liz Garvin  Sarah Miller  Sean Wolohan  
sophomore  junior  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Fisher  Stanford  Cavanaugh  Welsh Family  Welsh Family  Fisher  
“Hazing the  “Spring  “I’m excited  “Calling Carl  “Going to Fort  “Celebrating our  
pledges with  training with  to go home  Ackermann.”  Lauderdale.”  interhall hockey  
the boys and  men’s rowing  and shower  championship  
Tom Dunn.  in Tennessee.  barefoot.”  with the boys  
#nookisslow”  R’Irish!”  and Danny  
Milling.  

#nookisslow” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Detroit area woman stalked by aggresive turkey 
COMMERCE TOWNSHIP, Mich. — An Oakland County woman says she’s become a prisoner on her own prop­erty, stalked and harassed by a 25-pound turkey. 
Edna Geisler calls the foul bird “Godzilla.” The 69-year-old told the Detroit Free Press that the turkey wanders near her Commerce Township property each day from nearby woods. She re­cently couldn’t get to her front door after a trip to the grocery store. 
“I have to go to the post office at 6 o’clock in the morning to avoid him,” said Geisler, who has been bumped and clawed. 
She has tried changing her schedule but this tur­key is no dummy. A friend, Rick Reid, said the turkey went after him, too, when he opened the door on his mini­van. 

“He tried to come right in the door,” Reid said. “He bit me on the elbow.” 
Pennsylvania man tries high­fiving cop who gave DUI 
TYRONE, Pa. — Police say a central Pennsylvania man thanked and tried to high-five the officer who flagged him down for driving with­out his lights - only to then be arrested on a drunken driving charge. 
The Altoona Mirror re­ports that Gerald Decker was driving early Feb. 19 when a Tyrone officer no­ticed that Decker’s car didn’t have its lights on and flagged him down. 
Officer Adam Bonsell says Decker told him, “Thanks, buddy,” and tried to high-five him. Bonsell told him, “That’s not how it works” and gave Decker field sobri­ety tests. 
Police say Decker’s blood-alcohol content was 2 1/2 times the legal limit for driv­ers. 
The charges were recently mailed to Decker. 
Online court records don’t list an attorney for the 27-year-old Decker of Tyrone. His phone number isn’t listed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Hesburgh Library will host a workshop to teach participants how to use RefWorks from 1:30 to 3 
p.m. today in Room 247. Registration is open to stu­dents and faculty. 
The Department of Aero­space and Mechanical En­gineering will host the seminar, “A Coupled Elec­tro-Chemo-Mechanical Framework for Diffusion and Deformation in Sol­ids,” in Room 138 of De-Bartolo Hall from 3:30 to 
4:30 p.m. today. 
The Center for Ethics and Culture will host the lecture, “Emotion and Vir­tue in Thomas Aquinas,” in Room 118 of DeBartolo Hall from 4 to 5 p.m. to­day. 
Will H. Moore, profes­sor of political science at Florida State University, will deliver a lecture titled “Dissent, Repression and the Outcomes of the Arab Spring” in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies from 4 to 5:30 p.m. today. 
The Institute for Educa­tional Initiatives and the Notre Dame Ski Club will host a film screening of “Skiing Everest” at Carey Auditorim in Hesburgh Library from 6:30 to 8:30 

p.m. today. 
The Howard Hall “Cha­pel Crawl” will hold Mass in Badin Hall at 10 p.m. tonight. 
To submit informa­tion to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 












Tuesday, March 6, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



Expert educates SMC 
Leaders customize crime database 
students on stalking 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Campus Life Council’s regu­lar meeting was postponed Monday afternoon, as mem­bers met with Notre Dame Se­curity Police (NDSP) Sgt. Keri Kei Shibata to customize the online CrimeReports database. The customization is part of an ongoing initiative to improve interactive campus security. 

Shibata said the meeting sought to analyze University maps and define neighbor­hoods within campus based on geographical landmarks. Doing so, she said, will pro­vide students with access to the most relevant security as much information as pos­information for their area of sible in an interactive way.” campus on the CrimeReports Chief of staff Claire Sokas website. said CrimeReports would alert 
“[We’re drawing] lines on students, faculty and staff the map in a way that makes about reported events occur-

sense for stu­dents and staff on cam­pus,” Shibata said. 
St udent body presi­dent Pat Mc­Cormick said creat­ing campus neighbor ­hoods would make the Cri­meReports database 

“Our goal was to identify the best way of utilizing CrimeReports on campus, in a way that would make sense to students based on where they live.” 
Pat McCormick student body president 
ring in their respective neighbor­hoods. 
One proposed neigh­borhood would in­clude South Quad, West Quad, Car­roll Hall, the Mor­ris Inn, the Hammes 
more user-friendly for student users. 
“Our goal was to identify the best way of utilizing CrimeRe­ports on campus, in a way that would make sense to students based on where they live,” he said. “We also wanted to give Notre Dame Bookstore, Main Circle and the bookstore bas­ketball courts, she said. Other neighborhoods will include campus parking lots. 

“The parking lots are where students are the least aware of where crime is going on, but 

By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
In popular representations, stalking is often brushed off as a laughable issue. But Mi­chelle Garcia, director of the national Stalking Resource Center, told Saint Mary’s stu­dents stalking is no laughing matter. 
“We toss around the word ‘stalking’ too often because of movies and stalking be­ing portrayed in a light way, like in comedies,” Garcia said. “The St alki ng havior directed at a specific person that would cause a rea­sonable person to feel fear. 
“However, this definition is not what the state of Indi­ana uses, nor is it the defini­tion Saint Mary’s uses,” Gar­cia said. “This is our working definition.” 
Each year, approximately 
6.6 million people are stalked in the United States, Garcia said. 
“We know this based on re­search from a study looking at stalking,” Garcia said. “Last 
year, we released 

Resource “We toss around the word a nation-
need to be the most aware,” 

Center re-al report 
‘stalking’ too often because 
Sokas said. 

ally wants which
of movies and stalking 
to get found how
Ed Mack, rector of O’Neill 

being portrayed in a light 
Hall, said the Notre Dame Cri­

across that many peo­
way, like in comedies.” 
meReports information would 

stalking ple are 
should not act ua lly 
be useful to residents of the 
hall. 

be taken Michelle Garcia stalked in 
“All my guys would be inter-

lightly in director one year.” 
any way.” Ga r ­
ested in [the] D6 [parking lot],” 

Stalking Resource Center 

stalking “I couldn’t change the harm or aware-perpetrator’s actions, but threaten 
ness. victims in 
I knew I could do my part 
“ I about 20 
as an advocate for making 
couldn ’t percent 
people aware of stalking 
change of cases.” 
and the issues individuals 
the per-Gar­
face when being stalked.” 
petrator’s cia said actions, stalkers but I knew Megan Loney are driv-I could do senior member en by a my part variety of 
BAVO student advisory council 
as an ad­vocate for maki ng people aware of stalking and the issues individuals face when being stalked,” Loney said. “Michelle Garcia and the Stalking Resource Center are great outlets for more in­formation on stalking and a place to help victims.” 
The Washington, D.C.-based Stalking Resource Center, a branch of the National Center for Victims of Crime, is one of the nation’s leading organiza­tions on stalking, Garcia said. 
Prior to joining the Cen­ter as its director in October 2006, Garcia worked with stalking victims for more than 20 years. She said definitions of stalking are flexible. 
“Our definitions of stalk­ing all vary from one anoth­er,” Garcia said. “The Center defines it as a pattern of be­cia said 
roughly 60 
cases of stalking are reported on Saint Mary’s campus each year. This statistic corresponds with the targeting of young people in cases of stalking. 
“18- to 24-year-olds have the highest rate of victimization of stalking, which increases the rates of stalking on campus­es,” Garcia said. 
In most cases, stalkers are not strangers to their victims and are often people in close proximity to the victim, such as co-workers, classmates, neighbors, family members and current or past romantic partners, Garcia said. 
Stalkers are also taking ad­vantage of the widespread use of technology to pursue their victims, Garcia said, and iden­tity theft is another popular technique utilized by stalkers. “Two-thirds of stalkers pur­sue their victims at least once per week, and 78 percent use more than one means of ap­proach,” Garcia said. “Weap­ons are used to 
he said. 
Student body secretary Ka­tie Baker said NDSP will dis­tribute flyers containing the CrimeReports web address, instructions for using the site and information about the 
CrimeReports  iPhone  mobile  
app.  
McCormick  said  student  

government was grateful for the opportunity to collaborate with CrimeReports to improve accessibility to campus safety information. 
“Our hope is for the system to continue advancing on cam­pus,” he said. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at     ntoczaue@nd.edu 
The Saint Mary’s Belles Against Violence Office (BAVO) hosted the event Mon­day. Megan Loney, senior member of the BAVO student advisory council, shared her own personal experience with stalking. 
“We’ve all seen television commercials and the news portraying victims of stalk­ing the Hollywood way,” Loney said. “Unfortunately, stalking is overlooked.” 
Loney came in close contact with stalking when a friend’s ex-boyfriend stalked her friend during her junior year of college. 
“I was familiar with the ba­sics, but I soon realized that stalking was way more than I could have imagined when my friend became the vic­tim,” Loney said. “After see­ing the emotional effects on my friend, the issues became more personal to me.” 
Loney said the experience motivated her to become an advo­cate for personal 
motiva ­
tions, in­cluding rejection and obses­sion. 
“Why do they do what they do? There may be some level of insecurity and some level of fear,” Garcia said. “They may want to regain control in the relationship cases … There is no one single motivation for stalkers. 
“Obsession of another per­son causes most cases we see on TV and with celebrities,” Garcia said. “Often in these types, the offender often has some type of mental disorder and has some delusional be­lief that they are destined to be with the victim. This is a small percentage of cases, however.” 


Contact Jillian Barwick at                 jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Tuesday, March 6, 2012 
here,” she said. “I guess I
Out 
didn’t really feel comfortable 

enough with myself to correct continued from page 1 that assumption.”
 Students encounter a het­ing people,” she said. “A lot of erosexual mentality immedi­people here have not met gay ately upon arriving on campus people before coming to Notre with freshman orientation, Dame. That gets really tiring G’Sell said. after a while, to explain over “Immediately you get there, and over again.” and you are paired up with 
For those who do wish to a girl dorm, and you’re tied come out, the environment at to a girl’s wrist and you’re Notre Dame can be daunting. walking around together and Senior Sam Costanzo said the you’re supposed to find your campus environment initially wife,” he said. “Everything is prevented him from being focused on these heterosexual open about his sexual orienta-relationships.” tion. Sometimes, coming out dur­
“I wanted to be who I was ing college is not a given. publicly,” he said. “I knew I Senior Rocky Stroud said couldn’t because it was just so he had no immediate plans to grating. It rubbed up against come out at Notre Dame, as he so many gendered expecta-wished to keep his sexual ori­tions of people here.” entation private. 
Costanzo said he was cau-“I didn’t think people need­tious whom he came out to ed to know. I didn’t want all when he came to Notre Dame, those pestering questions like waiting until second semester ‘When did it start? How are of freshman year to come out you doing? How did your par-to people in his dorm. ents take it? Did any of your 
friends change?’” he said. “I A difficult experience didn’t want all of those ques-[I am] is incompatible in some 
Costanzo said being a gay tions you don’t want to an-aspects with [my] faith.” student at Notre Dame was not swer. I didn’t want my life to Like Costanzo, G’Sell said he the only thing he struggled change.” chose to attend Notre Dame for with freshman year. He over-However, Stroud said a reasons relating to his faith. stretched himself academical-friend revealed Stroud’s sexu-He thought Notre Dame would ly, struggled with his faith and al orientation at a party while be a school where he could coming from a largely His-he was with his older sister. come to terms with his sexual panic area of He said his orientation as it related to be-Texas, expe-coming out ing a practicing Catholic. rienced “cul-e x p er i enc e However, G’Sell said he soon ture shock” at “I knew if I was going was not ide-realized the process of recon-Notre Dame. to really develop on a al, as he did ciling the two was not going to 
As a result, not want his be as easy as he thought.
philosophical or spiritual 
Costanzo said older sister, “Even though you have some
level personally, in
he attended a student at incredibly intelligent Catho­
relation to Catholicism
U n i v e r s i t y Saint Mary’s, lics here, no one has the an-
and the tradition I was
counseling to find out in swers,” he said. “There is no 
raised in, I was going to
for most of such a way. easy solution to reconciling his freshman have to come back here.” “It was an these two things.” year. em o t i o n a l G’Sell said he approached 
The year Sam Costanzo rollercoaster his rector in Duncan Hall to culminated those few help deal with the relationship
senior 
when Costan-days, main-between his faith and sexual­zo attempted ly because ity. to kill himself I was at a “He didn’t give me any sort by swallowing party with of mind-blowing answer and several different medications, my sister,” he said. “When he didn’t have any solutions but could not keep them down. she found out, she had a melt-for me, but what he did do was After the incident, his rector down. She was in the bath-really important,” he said. “He took him to the hospital where room crying.” just welcomed me, not only to Costanzo called his parents, With his younger sister and the hall, but to the Church.” his academic advisor and his mother in town that same G’Sell said there was anoth­older sister, who attended weekend for a football game, er benefit to living in Duncan, Notre Dame at the time. Stroud said he came out in one a new dorm at the time. 
Costanzo said his sister fell swoop. “I felt it was important be-chastised him for not ap-“It all happened in one day cause [Duncan] didn’t have an proaching family members for — 24 hours, done.” identity and there was no ste­help. He said he was angered Though he said the circum-reotype,” he said. “I know it is by her reaction, as she hadn’t stances for his coming out ex-much more difficult for guys shown concern before. perience were less than ideal, that live in dorms that have 
“I knew she was wrong,” he Stroud said he is ultimately really strong heterosexual said. “It was infuriating, the glad it happened because he identities.” supposed value she was plac-would not have been able to ing in our family relationships come out on his own. ’I’m grateful it hasn’t been a because for me, they had been “I wish it happened differ-walk in the park’ compromised a while ago.” ently, [but] I’m okay with the Had she attended a different 
Following his freshman fact it happened, because I school, Lillis said she believes year, Costanzo took a medical don’t think I would have had she would have approached withdrawal from Notre Dame the courage or determination coming out very differently and studied at the University or necessity to come out my-than she has at Notre Dame. of Texas at El Paso. He said self,” he said. “I think I definitely would he decided to return to Notre have come out off the bat, be-Dame both for academic and Faith and sexuality cause I was in the closet for personal reasons. Though Costanzo said he is a month,” she said. “I don’t 
“I knew if I was going to re-not a practicing Catholic any-think I would have stayed in ally develop on a philosophi-more, it wasn’t until he set the closet at any other place. cal or spiritual level person-foot on the I would have ally, in relation to Catholicism Notre Dame been out
“From the guys I’ve met 

and the tradition I was raised campus that from the 
and been with who aren’t

in, I was going to have to come the relation-start.” 
out of the closet ... either

back here,” he said. “There ship between Stroud said wasn’t going to be a better his faith and it is personal, they are it is difficult place for me to do that.” sexuality be-afraid for family reasons for some gay 
came a prob-or culture reasons, students to Deciding when to come out lem. or just in general the come out at 
Lillis, who came out as bi-“The reli-fear of coming out.” Notre Dame sexual in middle school and gious thing for several later as a lesbian in high and the gay reasons.
Rocky Stroud 

school, said her openness thing were “From the 
senior

with her sexuality was swiftly two separate guys I’ve met challenged during freshman things in high and been orientation. school, and with who 
“I was not planning on being it wasn’t until I got here that aren’t out of the closet … ei­in the closet per se, but Frosh-they were really convergent,” ther it is personal, they are O kind of changed my mind … he said. “This deeply person-afraid for family reasons or It basically set the precedent al, meaningful but not all-culture reasons, or just in that being straight is assumed encompassing aspect of who general the fear of coming out,” he said. 

There are also internal is­sues students need to struggle with, Stroud said. 
“I wouldn’t say personally it was a fear of coming out to the Notre Dame population I was afraid of. It was maybe admit­ting to myself I was gay,” he said. 
Coming out as a female at Notre Dame is also different than coming out as a male, Lillis said, because of precon­ceived notions in respect to masculinity and femininity. 
“Guys, if they are in any way gender bending, then other men are going to label them as gay no matter what, so it’s like they might as well come out,” she said. “Whereas with girls, we can gender bend as much as we want and no one assumes that they’re gay. For a girl to come out, it definitely is much more of a personal choice than it is with a guy.” 
Despite the challenges he has faced as a gay student, G’Sell said he appreciates how these obstacles have been beneficial to his Notre Dame experience. 
“It hasn’t been without its struggles. At the same time, I don’t think that’s a problem necessarily. I think it’s good to struggle,” he said. “In a way, I’m grateful it hasn’t been a walk in the park.” 
The third installment of this series will examine the gay community’s underground net­work at Notre Dame and stu­dent experiences being in re­lationships on campus. It will run in Wednesday’s Observer. 


Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 6, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 


KPMG 
continued from page 1 
while maintaining a high level of personal integrity. 
“Notre Dame is a natural extension of my family, and I think that … prepared me No. 1 in football and unranked in the business school, and now it’s kind of the other way around,” Veihmeyer said. 
Veihmeyer said he loves vis­iting campus and supporting the University because of its unique spirit and culture. 
“If you have to try to ex­plain what makes Notre Dame 
very well for the career that I’ve had,” he said. “[At KPMG], how you treat oth­er people is as important as the result that you ulti­mately drive toward, and I think a lot of that was re­

“If you have to try to explain what makes Notre Dame special, then they’ve already missed the point.” 
John Veihmeyer CEO of KPMG LLP 
special, then they’ve al­ready missed 
the  point,”  
he  said.  “I  
feel  really  

lucky that I had Notre Dame and KPMG, both of which are great places … There’s a special feel-
ally reinforced here at Notre Dame.” 
In the more than three de­cades that have passed since Veihmeyer graduated, he said the University has stayed the same in some ways, but flipped in others. 
“When I was here, we were 
Voyeurism 
continued from page 1 
any further charges arising from investigation of the case, according to court documents. As part of the plea agreement, a six-year cap was placed on any total executed sentence Steinke receives. 
On March 7, 2011, a woman found a pen camera aimed at the toilet on the floor of a wom­en’s bathroom in Grace Hall. The pen camera was turned over to Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP), according to court documents. Steinke al­legedly admitted to placing the camera in the women’s restroom with the intent to re­ing and a special culture that’s hard to explain. If you’re part of it, you’ll understand it, and if you’re not part of it, you’ll never understand it, so there’s no sense trying to explain it.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at                      miati@nd.edu 
trieve the camera and down­load the recorded video con­tent. 
Notre Dame declined to com­ment further on the additional charges. 
“We were made aware of the camera, we investigated it and made the arrest,” Uni­versity Spokesman Dennis Brown said. “We disabled the operation and worked closely with the prosecutor and law enforcement. We’re confident that the criminal justice sys­tem would play itself out ap­propriately and that certainly is what has taken place.” 
St. Joseph Superior Court Judge Jerome Frese took the plea under advisement and set sentencing for April 26 at 9 a.m. 



Speaker 
continued from page 1 

an honorary doctor of human­ities degree at the ceremony, according to a press release. 
Susan Fitzgerald Rice, a 1961 College alumna and member of the SMC Board of Trustees, will receive the President’s Medal for her “ex­ceptional contributions to the life of the College and society,” the press release stated. 

Meeting 
continued from page 1 

ASA vice president Christian Moore and BSA chair Brittany Suggs both confirmed the acts of racial harassment against their respective groups. 
Because she was previously informed about the fried chick­en found in the ASA’s mailbox, Suggs said she took immediate action after finding the same in her organization’s mailbox. 
“The BSA had items in its mailbox before, which we saw as [events] that could be dis­regarded,” Suggs said.  “With this particular incident, I was going to treat it the same way, but it was the moment in which I found that the same thing happened to ASA a week ago that it resonated with me that this isn’t right.” 
Suggs said this incident con­stitutes just one part of the bigger picture of the racial dynamic on campus, as many similar cases go unreported. 
Students were given the op­portunity to share personal testimonies of experiences in­volving harassment and dis­crimination at Notre Dame. 
“[We wanted] to really give people to opportunity to talk,” 
Hobson, a Chicago native and Princeton University graduate, is the current presi­dent of Ariel Investments, a Chicago-based money man­agement firm where she is responsible for firm-wide management and strategic planning, according to the press release. 
Hobson is nationally known for her expertise in financial literacy and investor educa­tion. She has appeared as a fi­nancial contributor on “Good Morning America” and ABC’s 
Suggs said.  “We usually only talk about these things in our own groups and in our own communities, but to talk about it in a public place is very dif­ferent and raises awareness.” 
The event called for dialogue about discrimination in class­rooms, dorms, student life and campus systems and resourc­es. 
Junior Victor Cruz said he was initially thrilled to start anew at his new “home under the dome,” but he has never felt at home at Notre Dame. 
“I have been targeted be­cause of my accent, because I speak Spanish and because of my dress,” Cruz said.  “My voice will not go silenced … our God did not make us so that we should live subpar lives and suffer at the hand of ignorance.” 
Other students expressed similar discontent with the degree of acceptance in Notre Dame’s academic community. Junior Nick Ochoa said he is frustrated by professors who expect minority students to represent the opinions of their respective ethnicities. 
“That’s the attempt of the professor to understand a dif­ferent perspective, but it really puts you on the spot,” Ochoa said.  “Was it my fault for as­suming that professors would be a little more considerate when talking about students and their perspectives?” 
Sophomore Linsday Rojas and junior Gabi Hernandez said they have experienced discrimination in Notre Dame residence halls. 
During her sophomore year, Hernandez said she ap­proached her rectress about planning the dorm’s multicul­tural events, but she was out­raged by the rectress’s idea that Hernandez could be a “learning mechanism” for oth­er international students. 
“[I thought] What? I’m here as an educational tool on your behalf?” Hernandez said.  “No, I’m not, I’m a student here.  If I want to share my experienc­es with you, share my culture with you, that’s a different thing.” 
Rojas said her freshman year roommate articulated racist remarks and assump­tions to her. When Rojas ap­proached her rectress about the situation, she said she was told to “just get over it.” 
“She said, ‘The University wants their freshmen to work out their problems, so if she says anything to you, you say something racist right back,’” Rojas said.  “I basically didn’t live in my dorm the second se­mester of my freshman year.” 
Students also discussed in­stances of discrimination in­volving NDSP, peers, hall staff, professors and other members of the Notre Dame community. 
Following the student tes­timonials, McCormick shifted the discussion to practical so­lutions for moving forward in discourse on racism and dis­crimination. 
Hernandez said she thought “World News Tonight.” She currently serves as a weekly finance expert of the nation­ally syndicated Tom Joyner Morning Show radio program and is a contributor to Black Enterprise magazine. Addi­tionally, her financial exper­tise has been profiled in a number of well-known pub­lications including Essence, Fortune and the New York Times. 
Commencement will take place May 19 at noon on Le Mans Green. 
a three-pronged approach would work best to combat these issues, with a focus on getting respect, giving respect and creating a respectful at­mosphere. 
“We need to open up to ev­eryone and to be more inclu­sive,” Hernandez said.  “Ev­eryone has something to teach you, and you have something to teach everyone.” 
Senior Nneka Ekechukwu said some of the most frequent perpetrators of racial stereo­typing and discrimination at Notre Dame are in positions of authority, so she believes con­crete training methods should be implemented to dispel these stereotypes and encourage constructive dialogue. 
“In particular, the role that NDSP has played in these sto­ries has been terrible.  NDSP is supposed to be this force that helps us to feel safe on campus … they should have to undergo diversity training, sensitivity training and screening before being employed,” Ekechukwu said. 
Though proposals differed in some ways, all agreed the Notre Dame community must be extended to include all of its members, not just the racial or ethnic majority. 
Suggs said student leaders will sift through the meeting’s presentations to find overarch­ing goals and repetitive trends and use these findings to ap­proach the University admin­istration. 
“We will come up with a concrete list of our plans to make sure that we have that accountability there,” Suggs said. “We will make sure that we as students are aware of those plans, and hold the ad­ministration publicly account­able.” 
Iris Outlaw, director of Mul­ticultural Student Programs and Services, said the event was a step in the right direc­tion towards providing the Notre Dame community with a sense of students’ experiences with discrimination on cam­pus. 
“It was useful for students and faculty to hear some of others’ experiences, but it was even more crucial that some solutions were offered tonight,” Outlaw said.  “This should give the administration here some foundation, some different ways of looking at how we can address some of the issues brought to light.” 
Suggs and McCormick both said eliminating discrimina­tion is not an overnight pro­cess. 
“This will take patience and time, but this town hall meet­ing was a step in the right di­rection,” Suggs said.  “I like to say that we have to begin and finish everything with God at the forefront of our minds, keeping in mind the overall mission of the campus: fos­tering the ideals of spirit and community.” 

Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, March 6, 2012 

INSIDE COLUMN 




Downton Abbey 
Almost everyone who knows me knows that right now, I probably love one thing more than anything else in my life — “Downton Abbey.” Several of my friends are currently rolling their eyes or calling it “Downtown” while a few others are cheer­ing me on. 
Most of you have probably at least heard of this hit British import (which airs on PBS here in the states) by now. You may have seen the “Downton Abbey” as done by Spike TV sketch on “Saturday Night Live” or perhaps you’ve even ventured into the world of Edwardian England yourself. 
Regardless of how you’ve come across it, let’s make something clear — “Downton Abbey” is one of the best shows in recent television history. However, a lot of you won’t like it. If your typical TV fare rests more in “100 Ways to Die” than in “Board­walk Empire,” you probably won’t like “Downton Abbey.” The PBS drama follows the lives of an aristocratic family upstairs and their group of servants downstairs. The series begins in 1912 immediately af­ter the sinking of the Titanic and has, over the course of two seasons, taken us to the beginning of the 1920s. 
It may not sound like your cup of tea, but don’t be so quick to shirk it off as just an­other archaic costume drama — because that, it is not. “Downton Abbey” is a fresh and intensely compelling look into the lives of people of different classes in the days before and during World War I. 
First and foremost, this means good drama, only rather than doctors and 1950s ad executives, this story focuses on people with accents and beautiful costumes. If you give “Downton Abbey” a chance, you are sure to be sucked in by the love, lust and intrigue found in every episode. The characters are compelling and while the British series has fewer episodes than a typical American season of television, this means that every episode is packed full of action. The quality of writing, acting and storylines rarely falters. 
“Downton Abbey” might just be the most engrossing show on television right now, despite the fact that it is set a century ago in another country. What seems most inter­esting is the way it deals with issues of class at a time when that issue is at the forefront of the American consciousness. This PBS costume drama has swept across the coun­try, winning fans like Patton Oswalt, who live-Tweeted the episodes as he watched. 
Sadly, the second season of “Downton Abbey” just ended and America will now be waiting almost a year for the third to come along. So now is your chance to catch up. 
And boys, this is not just a girl’s show. While its audience is primarily female, there are enough male characters and sto­rylines that can win over even the toughest guys. You can claim you’re just watching it for your girlfriend, anyway. 
“Downton Abbey” is simply a joy to watch. Despite its sometimes harshly real storylines, including those about the rav­ages of war, it possesses an optimistic and positive attitude often missing from our increasingly cynical television landscape. “Downton Abbey” celebrates life more than anything, so put away the attitude and just enjoy the ride. 
Contact Maija Gustin at      mgustin@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Believe in the run 
I don’t admit this to many people, but I often find myself up far too late watch­ing old Nike commercials on YouTube. It’s seriously addicting — once you watch one video, you have to watch another, and another. By that point, you are Carolyn Green feeling so moti­vated and inspired Guest that you just want Columnist to go for a run. However, you can’t go for a run because it is too late, so you just keep watching videos. Also, the songs from the commer­cials make great additions to any race playlist. 
On one recent such evening, I discov­ered an ad campaign for Nike Running, which employed highway signs as pro­motional pieces. The signs were the kind typically used to advertise construction zones, but instead of being placed along­side the freeway, the signs were used as mile markers for a marathon. When I read the sign marking mile 15, I immedi­ately thought of the Holy Half. “Running never takes more than it gives back,” the sign read. “Believe in the run.” 
Though we have the ability to run to Michigan and back, many of us do not venture into the greater South Bend community nearly enough. The Holy Half Marathon is an opportunity to train for and complete a 13.1-mile race, undoubt­edly an amazing accomplishment in it­self, but also an opportunity to give back to South Bend. One hundred percent of the proceeds generated by the Holy Half Marathon are donated to local charities. This year, the Holy Half will be sponsor­ing two charities: Hope Ministries and the St. Joseph County Public Library (SJCPL). 
As Sarah Greenawalt, director of Community Outreach at Hope Minis­tries, puts it, “The participants, donors, 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

coordinators and volunteers of the Holy Half are directly impacting the lives of men, women and children who find hope, healing and opportunity at Hope Ministries.” 
Hope Ministries began in 1954 as Hope Rescue Mission in downtown South Bend. Now, it primarily operates out of the Family Life Center on Lafayette Boulevard where 18 families (including 30 children), 16 single women and 40 single men are offered free transitional housing. Hope residents are also offered addictions recovery, adult education, free meals, the Hope4Kids early child­hood development and parenting pro­gram, spiritual development programs, counseling and life skills development. The programs at Hope Ministries are unique in their emphasis on Christian discipleship, grace and accountability, allowing residents to support each other, challenge one another when needed and to hold one another accountable in love. 
Moving forward, Hope Ministries strives to strengthen its services to families and other under-served people in the community. In particular, Hope Ministries is in need of a new kitchen to continue to provide, prepare and serve nearly 300 free meals a day, every day of the year. In reference to the Holy Half, Greenawalt says, “The funds and awareness that are raised will allow vital services and programs to be offered to our neighbors in need, which can ul­timately lead to lasting, life transforma­tion. Thank you for your endurance and perseverance to run for us!” 
The SJCPL also serves as an important community hub, providing technology, programming and materials to better enrich the lives of those who take advan­tage of the library’s resources. Jennifer Phillips, the communication executive at the library, says, “Our goals are always connected to our area’s needs. We strive to be cutting edge but still do our best to remain down-to-earth.” 
For Phillips, it is not enough to simply be an organization frequented by the community. The library aims to use the resources they have to plant seeds in the community and truly make a difference in people’s lives. 
“Our various locations — including our website — are always under consid­eration as far as what we can do better. For us, that is the essential question that allows us to grow and be relevant,” Phil­lips said. 
Phillips and the SJCPL are honored to be a part of this year’s Holy Half Marathon. The recognition of the SJCPL as a beneficiary of the Holy Half helps connect the SJCPL to the community and validate that they are moving in the right direction. 
“As an institution that works to better educate our surrounding areas we are so grateful to the University of Notre Dame and all those involved in this charitable function,” Phillips said. 
When you run the Holy Half marathon, you run for more than yourself. Greater than any athletic accomplishment is the difference you will make to South Bend. As the Holy Half website states, “Run for good.” 
I leave you with the words of another Nike ad, which quotes a poem by Robert Frost: “The woods are lovely, dark and deep. But I have promises to keep. And miles to go before I sleep. And miles to go before I sleep.” 
Carolyn Green is the student director of the Holy Half Marathon. She can be reached at cgreen9@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Animals are such agreeable friends — they ask no questions, they pass no criticisms.” 
George Eliot English novelist 



WEEKLY POLL 
What are you doing for spring break? 

Visiting friends Going home Celebrating St. Patrick’s Day Going on a cruise 
Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Tuesday, March 6, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 

This Republican primary makes me sick 
It isn’t that I don’t understand why Republicans or Tea Partiers might want a smaller government, lower taxes, more aggressive foreign policy, etc. I don’t agree with these ideolo­gies, but I can sort of see where they Arnav Dutt come from. 
No, my problem Guest with this primary Columnist can be encapsulat­ed in two mantras or principles that voters and their candidates keep fall­ing back on. The first is the slogan, “anyone but Obama.” The other is the notion that the president needs to be “a regular guy” and not a “snob.” 
“Anyone but Obama” (or “ABO”) is actually a pretty popular Tea Party slogan. It is shouted at rallies, painted on signs, posted on websites and invoked in interviews by thousands of people who so disapprove of President Obama that they believe that anyone else would do a better job in his place. Here is why I think this slogan is stupid: 
1. If this slogan were literally true, then I feel like I could easily reach a compromise with the people who articulate it. President Hillary Rod­ham Clinton, anyone? A quick inter-net search will verify that she is not Barack Obama. 
Perhaps this is a tad unfair. Clearly, this criterion does not apply to anyone like Obama, or to the left of him. So, “Anyone but Obama” should be under­stood, “Anyone but Obama, or anyone like him.” 
2. What does Obama stand for, then? Is Obama really that bad? Could anyone actually do his job better than he does it? 
Just a guess, but no one who backs up his or her distaste for Obama with reasons would commit to accepting just anyone other than the President. Could you do a better job? Take your time answering that. Even if you and the President are separated by deep ideological differences and you think you are right and he is wrong, it does not logically follow that you would be a better president. 
Furthermore, it isn’t clear that these morons even disagree with Obama as much as they think they do. I am personally blown away by the misconceptions that dominate many criticisms of Obama. Forget the Tea Partiers. 
The remaining mainstream Repub­lican candidates have people believing Obama to be a Marxist, a socialist or even a Marxist and a socialist. Rick Santorum thinks Obama wants every­one to go to college. 

The most damaging misconception about him of them all is the notion that he has raised taxes, tripled the yearly budget deficit since he took office and dramatically increased the national debt. He probably longs for the days when people just thought he was a Muslim or a Kenyan citizen. 
The thing is, Obama is nothing like this at all. On the contrary, he is closer to being the perfect Republi­can candidate than he is to being a tax-raising, elitist, Marxist, socialist foreigner (necessarily so). You’d think the real Obama would pass the “Any­one but Obama” criterion. 
That’s what has been really scary about this campaign. The truth hasn’t mattered at all. Republican voters, or at least the ones who are dictating the pace and direction of this primary, will sooner vote for someone who tells them what they want to hear than what they need to hear. And these voters trust candidates whose views on the economy and healthcare are reductive, if they are coherent or even extant. This election has shown that voters are drawn to plans that are simple, bold and easy to understand. Anyone could come up with most of them. 
I think simplicity is a great rea­son to suspect a plan is going to fail. The candidates and policy-makers we choose are being chosen to deal with harder-than-average problems. Average people don’t know the first thing about the economy, health care or foreign policy. So, candidates and policymakers ought to be above aver­age, right? 
I think it’s safe to say that anyone who denies this lacks knowledge and respect for these issues. And to lack respect for the well-being of Amer­ica’s economy, health care and for­eign policy is to lack respect for this country and its inhabitants. And yet this Republican primary has been a contest to demonstrate proficiency in this for four months and counting. 
It really doesn’t help that Super Tuesday falls during midterms week. 
Arnav Dutt is a junior. He can be reached at adutt1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


NEDA Week 
As many may have noticed by the abun­dance of eating- and body-themed activi­ties on campus, last week was National Eating Disorders Awareness Week. In order to spread the word, many students banded together to spread awareness about this dangerous and highly preva­lent set of disorders that affects men and women across the globe. Some of you may have participated in an eating habits questionnaire that was circulated early in the week, and for that we thank you! It was amazing to hear real feedback not from a national survey, but from one so much closer to home. 
One of the most important things this survey taught us was that there is an overwhelming drive for thinness at Notre Dame, with well over half of the respon­dents answering that they engage in dieting or wish they were thinner. Over 70 percent also expressed that they felt a pressure to be thin on campus. How­ever, there was one result that we felt was extremely positive and necessary to report: Nearly 75 percent of Notre Dame students stated that they were happy with their bodies and the way they look! It’s important that we as a community embrace the many body types, cultures and appearances that are represented on this campus and recognize the beauty in them all. 
As eating disorders become more prevalent in American culture, especially in a collegiate setting, we challenge you to spread the word and be aware of the dangers.  Further, love your body for all of the amazing things it can do for you! From dancing an Irish jig on those rickety benches freshman year to walk­ing across the stage on graduation day, it is important to care for our bodies so they can continue to care for us. So, if you have concerns about your own (or a friend’s) health, please visit www.na­tionaleatingdisorders.org to learn more about these issues. 
Sheridan Jost
                              senior                        off campus 

Dagny Nagengost
                              junior                          Lewis Hall Feb. 29 



Think before you speak 
When I was 13, I accidentally kicked my soccer ball over our fence and into the woods. Finding my ball surrounded by thorns, I mumbled a certain expletive. My father’s bionic hearing kicked in and from our back porch he sent me straight to my bedroom — grounded. His rationale? “Smart people don’t use dumb words.” 
Teenage me thought he was being ridiculous, but more recently I came to this conclusion: Instead of “expletive,” I should have reached into the depths of my vocabulary and evoked a more accurate way to express my feelings. To my father, a “bad” word was cheap and lazy, and I was better than that. 
Tomorrow, Notre Dame will join hundreds of high schools and universities in a global effort to stop the hurtful use of the word “retard(ed).” As members of the Notre Dame community, we are called to recognize all human dignity. Still, many will question the necessity of eradicating this word. 
Fewer are using “retard” to refer to people with dis­abilities, but things like “my phone’s retarded,” still remain. Every time we use “retard” to mean “dumb” or “undesirable,” we are perpetuating a pattern of exclu­sion already burdening those with disabilities. Instead of the excuse, “I wasn’t saying it about anyone with a disability,” what we are really saying is, “I acknowledge that with this word comes a history of hate and unmer­ited stereotypes, but I continue to use it because I can’t think of anything better.” 
So here is my challenge: Be better than that. If you still think using the R-word jokingly doesn’t hurt, I en­courage you to ask some of Notre Dame’s extraordinary buddies, clients or athletes how they feel when they hear the word “retard.” The discrimination exemplified by the use of this word is all too real. 
Tomorrow, thousands of students will join the more than 15 million who have pledged not only to change their language, but their attitude. I encourage you to take two minutes in the dining halls or LaFortune and do the same. Pledge to think before you speak. 
Jenna Newcomb 
alumna            Class of 2010 Mar. 5 


Dialogue still needed 
Thank you to everyone involved in bringing Loyal Daughters and Sons to Notre Dame’s campus this year. From those who were brave and generous enough to share their stories, to the writers who interviewed them and faithfully adapted the stories to the script, to the actors who portrayed them with sensitivity, to the crew who facilitated every aspect of the performance, to the producer and director who so skillfully shaped LDS — you crafted a moving performance and I’m grateful I had the opportunity to witness it this weekend. 
During the performance, I laughed at some skits, I cried at others. I nodded in agreement to some, clenched my fists in response to others. Throughout it all, I was proud of the students involved and awed by the power of their convictions and their commitment to bringing these stories to life. I was hopeful that this performance would spark an important dialogue on campus. 
And so I was doubly upset to receive the email from NDSP on Saturday informing us that yet another sexual assault had taken place on campus this weekend. My thoughts and prayers go out to the student who was attacked. And I urge all Notre Dame students to accept the call to dialogue issued by Loyal Daughters and Sons that this weekend’s event proves is sadly still needed. 
The play’s program says it best: “A play about sexual violence and sexuality, ‘Loyal Daughters and Sons’ is based entirely on interviews with Notre Dame students. Through this performance we hope to share the diver­sity of experiences and beliefs at Notre Dame, as well as the struggles and strength of survivors of sexual vio­lence, in order to promote awareness and foster discus­sion about sexuality and its place at this school.” 
Abigail Palko 
Director of Undergraduate Studies                          Gender Studies Program Mar. 4 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, March 6, 2012 


COMMENCEMENT SPEAKERS 


Marissa Frobes 
Scene Writer 


Photo courtesy of The Dome Yearbook, 1938 
Mayo Clinic co founder William J. Mayo, second from left, gave the commencement speech in 1937. 
Photo courtesy of The Dome Yearbook, 1978 
President Jimmy Carter was the Notre Dame commencement speaker in 1977. 
Photo courtesy of The Dome Yearbook, 1991 
Comedian Bill Cosby brought a little controversy and a lot of humor to his 1990 commencement speech. 

Observer File Graphic 





Tuesday, March 6, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Scene Writer 

The 54th Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival rocked Wash­ington Hall Friday and Saturday, bringing together some of the best brass bands from across the country. 
The festival featured nine ensembles, including Notre Dame’s Jazz Band I and New Orleans Brass Band. The pro­fessional judges, guitarist Pat Martino, organist Pat Bian­chi, tenor saxophonist Diego Rivera, guitarist Carmen In­torre Jr. and trumpet and flugelhorn player Bob Lark, also performed Friday night. 

 Student programmers sophomores Sam Bungum and Rob Martin organized the event. They were responsible for inviting judges and ensembles, as well as planning the event’s logistical details. 
“We had a wide range of sounds and combinations to choose from, but it also depends on what kind of experience they’ve had in the jazz world,” Bungum said. “We have to go after multiple people, because some people might have scheduled their events many months in ad­vance.” 
Availability might have been one of the biggest difficulties Bungum and Martin faced, but they said they were still able to reserve some of the best jazz musicians in the country. 
Martino is a jazz gui­tarist who dropped out of high school to play jazz in Harlem. By the age of 16, he was per­forming in one of the most famous bands in New York City and has been playing with the best jazz musicians of the world ever since. Next week, Martino will fly to Dubai to play in the Dubai Jazz International Festival. 

Bianchi, one of the best up and coming jazz organists, also performed. Having performed with Martino for a few years, their playing styles complemented each other well. 
Intorre Jr. is a drummer who has played in New York since he was young. Martino discovered him at a gig and brought him into the group.
 Lark, a professor of jazz studies at DePaul University, directed the hon­


ors band Bun-gum played in when he was in eighth grade. 
“I remember working with him and he did a great job,” Bun-gum said. “He plays in some of the best big bands in Chica­go.” 
Rivera, a tenor sax player and professor of jazz studies at Michi­gan State Univer­sity, was a last-minute addition to the judges’ table. Bungum received news Friday morn­ing that due to health issues, 

judge Michael Pedicin was unable to attend. Bungum said Rivera dropped everything to perform that night. “He played extremely well, especially under the circum­stances,” he said. 
The bands performed a variety of pieces, each charac­terized by skilled soloists and unified ensembles. The Alma College Percussion Ensemble started the weekend off with a bang — a full steel drum set overtook the stage. The group was synchronized and the beat syncopated. It was a combination of jazz club cool and Jamaican heat. 
The Western Michigan University Advanced Jazz Combo featured a top-notch saxophonist and drummer. Their best number was the student-arranged piece “For Harlan,” a wild drum piece that shook the hall. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band I performed with red ties popping against their all-black attire. The group’s program ranged from Duke Ellington to John Clayton to their very own director, Larry Dwyer. Junior vocalist Allison Jeter had the Ella-inspired pipes to steal the show with “Sophis­ticated Lady” and “A Tisket A Tasket.” 
The Alaska Fairbanks Jazz Combo, or UAF Jazz @ Six, 
had a fantastic, full-bodied sound. Trumpet player Luke Nielsen serenaded the crowd with his solo in “Quiet River” and Keenan McKir­gan was brilliant in his trombone solo in “Being With You.” 
The Virginia Com­monwealth Universi­ty Small Jazz Ensem­ble might be small, but their sound was smooth and sultry. A self-directed group, they have five mem­bers: tenor saxo­phone, trumpet, pia­no, bass and drums. 
Campus favorite Notre Dame New Or­leans Brass Band, fondly known as MOBB, channeled funk, jive and the famous New Orleans 

second-line beat into their program, which included the Notre Dame Fight Song. 
The Bowling Green State University Lab Band I evoked a hazy, late-night vibe. Alto saxophonists Nicole Hassel and Christine Wehr were the standouts, thanks to their jiving director David Bixler. 
Finally, the Virginia Commonwealth University Jazz Orchestra I featured killer bongos and a toe-tapping bass line in each of their pieces, as well as an exceptional lead trombone player and tenor saxophone soloist. As the most visible component of VCU’s music program, the group is comprised of mostly jazz students. Their director was charmingly enthusiastic, gesturing loudly every time a member rocked a solo. 
The Judges’ Jam on Friday night was also a shining mo­ment in the festival. 
“It was great … absolutely great,” Bungum said. “Pat Martino’s sound is so distinctive and he lived up to one of his nick-names … the fastest guitar player in the west.” 
Martino also brought in Lark and Rivera to jam on jazz standards and play solos on a few of his original charts. “Some of the best jazz in the country was happening right here,” Bungum said. 
The festival also had a free clinic for jazz enthusiasts, novices and veterans to interact with the judges about the music. 
“One gentleman who’s played drums for 50 years said it 
was one of the best clinics he ever attended,” Bungum said. Bumgum was particularly impressed with Martino. “He talks about music as life. It was very eye-opening,” 
he said. “Each judge talked about their take on technique or jazz in general and the difference between jazz as a business and an art form.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
LAUREN  KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 



page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 6, 2012 


SPORTS AUTHORTY 



The top five sports TV theme songs of all time 
It’s been well covered in this space over the past two weeks, but we’ve been in a bit of a sports dry spell lately. 
The Big East tournament be­gins today, and will conclude this weekend along with every other major conference, ending with the spectacle of Selection Sun­day. That will lead directly into March Mad ne ss, which will march on to the Masters, the NHL and NBA playoffs, and yes, even the return of baseball. Before we know it, it will be football season once again. 
But last weekend, with the spec­ter of midterms looming over cam­pus, that all seemed unattainably far away. The horizon was begin­ning to lighten, but the sun of spring sports had not yet risen. Faced with such a scarcity of conversation top­ics, my roommates and I argued — all in the name of procrastination — over the best sports broadcast theme songs ever to grace network television. 
Yup, we were that bored. But I apologize for nothing. 
A great theme should immedi­ately set the tone for the upcoming event, and should be recognizable enough that the first couple of bars have you turning for the nearest TV. It should be lively enough to get you excited for the event, even in pass­ing in a 15 second commercial. And it should be established enough that it harkens back to previous years, to the exact places you were for the event’s best moments. 
Ladies and Gentlemen, the top five sports themes of all time: 
5. College Football on ABC 
This theme unfolds slowly, and brings to mind the imperial power of an ancient Roman triumph. It’s a Saturday night staple in the fall, always there for sneaking in one more powerhouse matchup after candlelight dinner. Its grandeur practically demands an awesome blimp shot of a venue like the Rose Bowl, accompanied by Brent Mus-burger announcing that indeed, “You are looking live” at something special. 
4. NBA on NBC 
I’m not much of an NBA fan any­more, but “Roundball Rock” always brings me back to the legendary, in-your-face series in the late ‘90s be­tween the Knicks and Pacers. It was a time when the league was rough and tumble, played defense and its stars didn’t decide to team up and hang out together in Miami Beach. Its full, orchestral sound com­mands attention, plus Nelly rapped over it in his 2004 hit “Heart of a Champion.” Pretty cool, but not enough to push it past the classic at No. 3. 

3. Monday Night Football 
This is probably the most rec­ognizable theme on the list. The first four notes immediately let everyone in the vicinity know it’s Monday night, and helped make MNF a true event in itself when it was established in 1970. Plus, I’m bundling it with “All My Rowdy Friends,” which Hank Williams Jr. traditionally updated for every week’s matchup. Unfortunate­ly, Williams was pulled off the broadcast last year after compar­ing a sitting U.S. president to Ad­olf Hitler, leaving no one to ask us that all-important question: “Are you ready for some football?” 
2. The Masters 
A total change of pace on our list, but awesome nonetheless. This calming, piano-and-flute melody makes all seem right and beautiful in the world. It rolls along as slow and smooth as Rae’s Creek and brings out the best of Jim Nantz, as he calls us in as “friends” in his sleeptime whisper. The song, much like the tournament itself, feels frozen in time, and it will always bring me back to watching Tiger and Phil with my dad on the warm April Sundays of my youth. Augusta is revered almost to the point of being a holy site, and the theme could easily be confused with an acoustic hymn in church. It’s fit­ting then that, as it often does, the Masters will once again conclude on Easter Sunday, with nature and nostalgia in full effect. 
1. NCAA Basketball on CBS 
Our ultimate theme jumps right into the action, but somehow finds a way to continue building energy all the way through, just like the tournament it accompa­nies. Following Selection Sunday, basketball fans everywhere will hear this song hundreds of times over the course of a month. It ac­companies Greg Gumbel’s game breaks, Bill Raftery’s explosions and every time the score update bar appears at the bottom of the screen. I honestly can’t wait for those first eight bars come Sun­day, and that’s the goal of any good sports theme. 
So it may have been a struggle to survive the past few weeks in the sports world, but all that is about to change. 
I can hear it coming. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero1@nd.edu                          
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
NFL 


League looks into Saints’ Williams 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Now that the NFL has uncovered a big-money bounty program for players in New Orleans, it likely will zero in on other teams Gregg Williams worked for. 
That means the Titans, Red­skins, Jaguars and Bills probably should all expect to hear from the league soon. 
Williams has admitted and apologized for running a bounty pool of up to $50,000 over the last three seasons that rewarded play­ers with thousand-dollar payoffs for knocking targeted opponents out of games while he was the Saints’ defensive coordinator. 
He will meet Monday with NFL investigators in the New York area, according to two people fa­miliar with the NFL’s investigation of the bounties. They spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity Sunday because details of the continuing investigation are not being disclosed. ESPN first re­ported the meeting. 
“It was a terrible mistake,” Wil­liams said in a statement Friday night shortly after the NFL re­leased the report. “And we knew it was wrong while we were doing it.” 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said Sunday in an email to the AP that the investigation was far from over and that the league will continue “addressing the issues raised as part of our responsibility to pro­tect player safety and the integrity of the game.” 
Before joining the Saints, Wil­liams was the defensive coordina­tor in Tennessee, Washington and Jacksonville, and the head coach in Buffalo. In January, he was hired by new St. Louis Rams coach Jeff Fisher to lead the defense. 
Former Redskins safety Matt Bowen said Williams had a simi­lar bounty scheme when he was in Washington. Former Bills safety Coy Wire told The Buffalo News that an environment of “mali­cious intent” was in place when he joined the team in 2002 — when Williams was the head coach. Wire said Williams promoted “fi­nancial compensation” for hits that injured opponents. 
The NFL said payoffs were made by the Saints for inflicting game-ending injuries on targeted players, including quarterbacks Brett Favre and Kurt Warner. “Knockouts” were worth $1,500 and “cart-offs” $1,000, with pay­ments doubled or tripled for the playoffs. 
No punishments have been handed out, but they could include suspensions, fines and loss of draft picks. Several players around the league have said the Saints and Williams weren’t the only ones with such a system. 
“I knew they existed,” former All-Pro guard Alan Faneca told the AP. “If I hadn’t heard of it, I guess I just assumed that it went on. I wouldn’t say that I knew of a team that did it all the time, more just in big games.” 
Lions defensive tackle Ndamu­kong Suh, who was suspended for two games this season for stomping on an opponent and has been fined frequently by the NFL for rough play, insisted Sunday his team had no bounty program. 
“I don’t take part in those things and nor do my teammates and nor my coaches. We don’t allow that,” Suh said. “For me, personally, and I know my teammates, we don’t want to put anybody out,” he added. “Es­pecially me, I would never want any­body to target me to take me out, so why would I do it against somebody else?” 
Aiello said the NFL would look at “any relevant info regarding rules being broken.” 
All payouts for specific perfor­mances in a game, including inter­ceptions or causing fumbles, are against NFL rules. 
“I’ve been around teams where players put up money for game goals like kickoff tackles inside the 20, 100 yards rushing, defensive turnovers,” said Faneca, who retired last May after playing 13 seasons for Pitts­burgh, the New York Jets and Ari­zona. 
The NFL also warns teams against such practices before each season. 
“The payments here are particu­larly troubling because they involved not just payments for ‘performance,’ but also for injuring opposing play­ers,” Commissioner Roger Goodell said of the Saints in a statement Fri­day. “The bounty rule promotes two key elements of NFL football: player safety and competitive integrity.” 


The league said 22 to 27 defensive players were involved in the pro­gram. Its findings were corroborat­ed by multiple, independent sources, and the pool amounts peaked in 2009, the year the Saints won the Super Bowl. 
The 49ers were surprised when the Saints called 18 first-half blitz­es in the teams’ exhibition opener last August, won 24-3 by the Saints in the Superdome. New Orleans sacked the San Francisco QBs six times: two on Alex Smith and four against backup rookie Colin Kaepe­rnick. 
One Saints player fined last sea­son for flagrant hits was safety Ro­man Harper. In Week 14 against Tennessee, he made two hits that drew a total of $22,500 in fines. 
Harper was fined $15,000 for roughing the passer on a helmet-to-helmet hit, and another $7,500 for unnecessary roughness when he pulled down receiver Damian Williams by his helmet after a long catch and run. The tackle likely stopped Williams from scoring, and Gregg Williams defended Harper’s aggressiveness on that play after the game. 
“If that guy doesn’t want his head tore off, duck. Because that’s how we’re playing. He needs to duck, OK? And that is exactly what you have to do,” Williams said. “One of the things about playing in this league is that your mental tough­ness, your physical toughness, all that kind of stuff works hand in hand. And I love Roman Harper and the way he plays, and evidently a lot of other people and players in the league do, too, because they keep on voting him to the Pro Bowl.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Mark Twain Quotes: “Classic.” A book which people praise and Whoever has lived long enough to find don’t read. out what life is, knows how deep a debt of Good breeding consists in concealing how When angry, count four; when very angry, gratitude we owe to Adam, the first great much we think of ourselves and how little 
PERSONAL 

swear. benefactor of our race. He brought death we think of the other person. To string incongruities and absurdities into the world. 
I have been studying the traits and together in a wandering and sometimes The radical invents the views. When he has UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t dispositions of the “lower animals” (so purposeless way, and seem innocently Do not put off till tomorrow what can be worn them out the conservative adopts go it alone. Notre Dame has many called) and contrasting them with the traits unaware that they are absurdities, is the put off till day-after-tomorrow just as well. them. resources in place to assist you. and dispositions of man. I find the result basis of the American art, if my position If you or someone you love needs humiliating to me. is correct. There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned confidential support or assistance, Everybody talks about the weather, but lies and statistics. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 nobody does anything about it. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more What’s the use you learning to do right, information, visit ND’s website at: when it’s troublesome to do right and ain’t In order to make a man or a boy covet 268 days till Thankstaking 2012. It’s pretty 
no trouble to do wrong, and the wages is a thing, it is only necessary to make the Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of safe to say CA is excited. http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu just the same? thing difficult to obtain. fear — not absence of fear. 
Tuesday, March 6, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NBA 




Thunder top Mavericks 95-91 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Russell Westbrook scored 24 points, Kevin Durant added 22 and the Oklahoma City Thunder scored the final eight points to escape with a 95-91 victory over the Dallas Mavericks on Monday night and run their home win­ning streak to 13 games. 
Westbrook answered Dirk Nowitzki’s fourth 3-pointer of the final period by hitting one of his own from the right wing to get Oklahoma City within 91-90 with 2:25 remaining, and Dallas didn’t score again. 
Serge Ibaka hit two free throws with 46 seconds left to give Oklahoma City the lead, and Jason Terry missed two shots down the stretch for the Maver­icks. 
Nowitzki finished with 27 points but didn’t touch the ball on a key possession when Dallas was down by two with 13 sec­onds left. 
Instead, Terry and Jason Kidd passed the ball back and forth with Kidd getting stuck under the basket before tossing it right back. Terry missed on a short jumper along the right base­line that would have tied it, and Westbrook hit two free throws to ice it after grabbing the rebound. 
James Harden had 16 points and Kendrick Perkins grabbed a season-high 14 rebounds for West-leading Oklahoma City. 
Terry ended up with 18 points and Ian Mahinmi added 13 points, all in the first half, after being pressed into action when starting center Brendan Hay­wood was hurt just seconds into the game. 
Already short-handed at cen­ter, the Mavericks lost Haywood on the opening possession of the game. Haywood won the tip-off, then got the ball inside before missing a shot and land­ing with his left foot on top of Perkins’ left foot. He hobbled up the court to foul Durant and then headed to locker room and did not return. 
Dallas was already without reserve center Brandan Wright because of a concussion. 
Mahinmi had seven points, in­cluding a three-point play, dur­ing a 15-5 run late in the second quarter, and Kidd’s 3-pointer from the top of the key made it 52-42 with 1:20 to go before half-time. 

The Thunder scored the fi­nal three points of the first half and then were able to reverse a seven-point halftime deficit dur­ing the third quarter. Oklahoma City scored the first seven points after halftime to tie it at 52 on Westbrook’s jumper from the right elbow with 9:24 left, then pulled ahead with another string of seven consecutive points late in the third. 
Durant got ahead of the de­fense for a two-handed dunk and converted the ensuing free throw for a 68-61 Thunder lead with 1:33 remaining in the third. 
NBA 


Deng, Rose lead Bulls to seventh straight win 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — A dynamite third quarter by Derrick Rose and the Bulls denied In­diana any chance of a second straight win in Chicago. 
Luol Deng scored 20 points, teaming with Rose in a deci­sive rally that sent Chicago to its seventh straight victo­ry, 92-72 over the Pacers on Monday night. 
“We had a lot more energy in the second half than we did in the first half,” Deng said. 
Rose added 13 points and nine assists, hitting three 3-pointers while Deng had two in the third as the Bulls blew open a close game. 
“We fought our way back into the game,” Rose said. “Our energy was kind of low and shots weren’t falling. But we rebounded the ball and finished the game pretty good.” 
Joakim Noah had 17 re­bounds to lead the Bulls to a dominating 60-32 edge on the boards. Chicago outscored the Pacers 20-4 on second-chance points. John Lucas III scored 13 points, one of three Chicago reserves in double figures. 
“We struggled offensively in the first half,” Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau said. “In the third quarter, we had great energy and imposed our will. The rebounding is what got us over the hump.” 
Paul George scored 21 points for Indiana, which had a six-game winning streak snapped. George Hill scored 17 points off the bench. 
“Give credit to the Bulls,” Pacers coach Frank Vogel said. “They had all the hustle stats. Won all the loose balls 


and obvi-“We struggled offensively His long one ously kicked in the first half. In from straight our butts on the third quarter, we on as the shot the glass. “ had great energy and clock expired 
The imposed our will. The put Chicago 
Bulls im-up by 13. 
rebounding is what got 
proved their The Bulls 
us over the hump.” 
league-best extended the record to lead to 19 by 
Tom Thibodeau 
32-8. Chica-the time their go stretched Bulls coach third-quarter 
said. “Especially a team that we might face in the play­offs.” 
After the game, Rose sound­ed was more conciliatory. 
“They’re a good team,” Rose said. “The last time we played them, they beat us here. Now we just have to deal with them. They put up a fight every time we play them. We’re used to. I think it makes us better as a team.” 
Bulls guard Richard Ham­ilton left the game after just 
1:23 had elapsed with a right shoulder injury. He did not return. 
Ronnie Brewer came on for Hamilton and had 12 points and seven rebounds in 39 minutes. Fellow reserve Taj Gibson added 10 points and nine boards. 
“Thibs always tells us to be ready because you never know when you’re time is go­ing to come,” Brewer said. “Whenever we come in, we have to try to bring energy and change the game one way or another.” 
Indiana led by three two minutes into the second half when the Bulls went on a 20-4 spree that featured a pair of nine-point runs. After starting the game by missing nine of his first 10 shots, Rose capped the first run with a 3-pointer to put Chicago up 53-47. 
“We definitely got stag­nant,” said Pacers forward Danny Granger, who was held to 11 points. “We didn’t get a lot of movement. They picked up their intensity and we had some bad turnovers that led to layups on the other end.” 
Indiana closed within four 
before Chicago hit three consecutive 3-pointers, one by Rose and the last two by Deng. 
its lead to 2 ½ games over Mi­ami atop the East­ern Conference and to seven games over Indiana in the Central Division. 
The Pacers were trying to win a seventh straight game for the first time in eight years. 
“They really picked it up defensively,” George said. “We deferred to them. Every­body on their side stepped up when we somewhat had Der­rick Rose contained. Every­body else stepped up.” 
Chicago avenged a 95-90 loss to the Pacers on Jan. 25, one of just two home losses this season. Rose was irked after that game because of what he perceived to be In­diana’s excessive celebration on the court after the game ended, saying “I can’t wait till we play them again.” 
“You don’t want to lose to a team twice in a row,” Deng burst ended. 
Chicago out­
scored the 
Pacers 33­
13 in the pe­riod, held Indiana to 6-of-22 shooting and outrebounded the Pacers 18-7. Rose had 11 points and five assists to lead the charge. 
Rose rested for the en­tire fourth quarter as Indi­ana could get no closer than 13 points. When the Pacers looked like they might make one last run, Rose began to stretch but ultimately set­tled back onto his seat and watched from the sideline. 
“I’m not worried about the shots that I miss,” Rose said. “Amnesia. I know that when I get things going, it’s pretty hard to stop.” 
The Pacers are looking forward to their next test against their division foe. 
“We still have games to play (against the Bulls) in Indiana and it will be a different sto­ry,” Granger said. 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, March 6, 2012 

CLUB SPORTS 


Women’s hockey sweeps Spartans in home finale 
Men’s rugby falls to Sooners; Women’s volleyball splits with Purdue, sweeps Butler and Western Kentucky 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame was back in action this weekend, beating Michigan State on Saturday and Sunday 3-2 and 4-1, respectively. These games were a rematch of the team’s first pair of games in No­vember when the Irish traveled to East Lansing, Mich., where Michigan State swept. 
In the first game, the Irish started strong when senior Kris­tin Hepburn was able to beat the goalie for a 1-0 lead 15 minutes into the game off assists from sophomores Meaghan Ayres and Maddie Schneeman.  Within a minute, the Irish scored again when freshman Suzanne Fitz­patrick took the puck into the of­fensive zone and found freshman Tori White in the slot. With only the goalie to beat, White didn’t miss. 
Finding themselves in a quick 2-0 hole, the Spartans took a timeout and were able to shift the momentum in their favor. Two minutes later, the Spartans found the back of the net and by the end of the first period had tied the game 2-2. 
Following the intermission, the Irish took back control of the game. A shot from the point led to a rebound and a scrum in front of the Spartan net. The Spartans were unable to clear the puck and senior Brinya Bjork found freshman Kelsey Osinski, who slammed it home under the goalie to give the Irish the lead back for two minutes into the second period. Then it was up to the Irish defense to keep the lead. 
Freshman Kaleigh McLaugh­lin was particularly strong for the Irish defense clearing out the Spartan players in front of the net. Sophomore Caroline Thom­as and juniors Mara Catlaw and Veronica Ryan kept the Spar­tans at bay. The star of the game was senior goalie Elissa Cmunt. Playing in her last game for the Irish, Cmunt turned the Spar­tans away at every opportunity with some tremendous saves and overall strong play in the second and third periods to ultimately seal a great 3-2 Irish victory. 
On Sunday, the Irish were out to prove that Saturday’s win was no fluke, and after an even start, sophomore Kate Bowie took a shot from the high slot that snuck under the Spartan goalie for a 1-0 lead eight minutes into the game. Later in the period, Ayers found White to give the Irish a 2-0 lead. Not wanting a repeat of Saturday’s game when Michigan State came back to tie the game, the Irish didn’t let up. Early in the second period, Fitzpatrick was able to find the back of the net off assists from White and Catlaw. The last Irish goal was scored later in the pe­riod when Hepburn tipped a shot from Thomas for a 4-0 lead. 
With such a big lead, the Irish seemed to relax, but freshman goalie Mary Salvi had a strong game and did not allow the Spar­tans to gain momentum. Fresh­man Megan Covington, playing out of position on the wing, had a great game and helped the Irish repel every Spartan attack. The Irish cruised to a 4-1 Senior Day victory and gave promise for the coming years. 
Led by seniors Bjork, Hepburn and Cmunt, and coached by se­nior Tim Gannatti, junior Derek Wolf and sophomore EJ Borg, with special advisor junior Kev­in Nugent, the team finished the year with a 10-3 record. 
Women’s Volleyball 
Women’s volleyball has made huge strides in its short ex­istence, as evidenced in this week’s Butler Invitational. The Irish opened play by splitting two games with Purdue C, drop­ping the first game 25-21 before rebounding for a 25-20 victory. The club then swept a pair of games from each of its next two opponents, defeating Western Kentucky 25-23 and 25-16 and the host Bulldogs 25-16 and 25­23. 
Sophomore libero Alex Doc­tor had a stand out performance all day long.  The club will next play at Michigan State in three weeks. 
Equestrian 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Equestrian team trav­elled to Chicago this past week­end for the first horse show of the semester, hosted by Augus­tana College. Despite the cold weather, the team enjoyed a suc­cessful weekend, with one rider qualifying for regional finals and several others closing in on qualification. 
Junior rider Mia Genereux started Saturday with an excel­lent ride in open fences to claim first place honors with sopho­more Katie Walsh, freshman Katie Sylva and junior Amy Gior­dano earning second, third and fifth, respectively. 
Sophomore Stephanie Near-hos and junior Maureen McQuil­lan laid down solid trips to earn fourth and third places in the intermediate fences class, with senior Sarah Lusher earning first place in her first intermedi­ate jumping class with an excep­tional course. 
In the novice fences classes, senior Amanda Leon and junior Whitney Preisser each jumped to third place in their sections with lovely trips.  Senior Cath­erine Mikkelsen laid down solid rides in the alumni fences and flat classes to take fourth place in both.  In the open flat classes, Genereux and Walsh won their respective sections, and Gior­dano, freshman Katie Sylva and senior Victoria Scheid followed close behind taking the third, fourth and sixth places. 
For the intermediate flat class, Nearhos claimed first with an outstanding ride, McQuillan re­ceived second and Whitney Pre­isser earned the fourth place honors. Leon garnered the fourth place honors in novice flat, with junior Patty Walsh taking third in their first show of the year. 
To wrap up the day, freshmen Shannon Noonan and Rebecca Bullis and junior Ellen Moriarity earned second, third and fourth spots respectively in their walk­trot-canter sections with su­perb rides.  The team took home overall third place behind Wis­consin-Madison and Wisconsin-Lacrosse and Genereux was the high point rider for the day. 
Sunday kicked off with a pair of well-earned first places from Genereux and Walsh in the open fences classes, with Sylva and Giordano following closely, com­ing in second and fourth. In the intermediate fences class, Near-hos jumped to first place with an outstanding course. Lusher earned fourth and McQuillan placed sixth in the intermediate class as well. 

Senior Mana Espahbodi and sophomore Sarah Dalton re­ceived the fourth and sixth place honors with solid rides in the novice fences class.  In the alum­ni section, Mikkelsen claimed a pair of fourth places.  In the open flat classes, Scheid and Walsh each took second place in their sections, with Giordano, Genereux and Sylva finishing up well with the third, fifth and sixth places. 
The intermediate flat riders were also successful, with Near-hos placing third, McQuillan placing fourth and Preisser plac­ing fifth.
 Leon received third place in the novice flat class. Sophomore Annie McCarthy took home sixth place in her first show with a great ride in the walk-trot-can­ter class and Moriarity garnered first place honors to finish the day. 
The team placed third out of 12 teams for the day behind Wis­consin-Madison and Wisconsin-Lacrosse. Walsh was the reserve high point rider for the day and also qualified for regionals in the open flat. 
The team will travel to Madi­son, Wisc., in two weeks for the final show of the season and the regional finals. 
Men’s Rugby 

The Irish travelled to Norman, Okla., over the weekend to take on Oklahoma. The weather was a balmy 60 degrees, but there were high winds that affected play throughout the game. 
The match started with physi­cal play from both sides. The Irish and the Sooners traded blows for the first 15 minutes of the match.  The Irish defense held strong with the Sooners advancing the ball very close to the goal line. Eventually though, the Irish capitalized on a scor­ing opportunity and made the most of it as junior Sean Peter­son made a kick to put the Irish up 3-0.  Things looked to be go­ing in favor of the Irish as junior Ryan Robinson sprinted up the sideline to score.  Peterson made a great kick to put the Irish up 10-0. The Sooners came storm­ing back, though, to take a 12-10 lead into halftime. 
The beginning of the second half started with a pair of Irish tries by sophomore Tom Hickey. The Irish started playing their brand of rugby, but the Sooners erased their 22-10 deficit and went up 29-22 with about 10 min­utes left in the game. The Irish had many chances during the Sooners’ rally to increase their lead but couldn’t take advantage of the opportunities. The last 10 minutes were hard fought, but the Irish couldn’t manage a score before the whistle blew. It was a difficult loss for the Irish to swallow, who will look to re­bound next weekend against Life University in Charlotte, N.C. 
Men’s Volleyball 
The No. 1 men’s volleyball club was unable to participate in a conference tournament this weekend due to a snowstorm and poor travel conditions. 
Squash 
The Notre Dame Squash Team partnered with Net Impact to host a hunger awareness dinner Feb. 21. Net Impact is a club in­terested in making a positive im­pact on society by growing and strengthening a community of leaders who use business to im­prove the world. This dinner was made possible for those inter­ested in learning more about the subject of world hunger. Jennifer Warlick, director of the Poverty Studies program at Notre Dame, spoke at the event. 
It was an informal and infor­mative dinner that addressed themes like inequality, poverty and starvation. As students ar­rived, they received a number from one through six, designat­ing the table they were to sit at. After the seats were filled, stu­dents found out that table one represented the upper class, while six represented the lowest class in the room. 
Table one received a four course catered meal before ta­bles three through six received anything at all. Tables three through six received a small bowl of rice while table one was devouring its cake. Eventually, everyone else received the same food but for a while, it was clear that those not sitting at table one were clearly dissatisfied and frustrated. 
These were the exact emotions the planners had hoped partici­pants sitting at the lower class tables would feel as they saw others receiving better treat­ment, as this is a situation very few Notre Dame students are in at home. It was in its own sense an eye-opening activity. 
People were very satisfied with the event. Warlick said the event was very informative and clear, 


Tuesday, March 6, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 

SMC TENNIS 


Belles look to start fast at home against Warriors 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
While getting the first win of the season is important, getting the first home win also creates a special momen­tum for a team’s season. Saint Mary’s will look to capture that momentum Tuesday at home against Indiana Tech. 
The Belles (1-1) are com­ing off a dominant victory Sunday over Olivet College, in which they swept all three doubles matches and won five of the six singles matches for an 8-1 victory. Belles coach Dale Campbell said this win brought confidence back to the team after a rough sea­son opener against regionally ranked Case Western. 
“We’re cautiously optimis­tic,” Belles coach Dale Camp­bell said. “We’re positive, but we know we have to keep do­ing better.” 
While the odds look good on paper for Saint Mary’s, as In­diana Tech (0-4) lost to that same Olivet team that Saint Mary’s defeated 8-1, Campbell said the Belles are not over­confident. 
“We’re going to continue to work hard in practice,” Camp­bell said. “We’re going to con­tinue to work on our fitness.” 
Saint Mary’s is hoping this hard work, coupled with ath­letic ability, will pay off. But they want to maintain a cer­tain level of mental toughness and intensity as well, Camp­bell said. 
“Primarily, we want to con­tinue to play more aggres­sive against our opponents,” Campbell said. “We’re going to need a more aggressive game to fare well against our conference opponents.” 
Tuesday will give the Belles an opportunity to attack with this aggressive mental­ity, Campbell said, where a certain amount of focus will be paid to the No. 1 singles matchup. 
“[Indiana Tech’s] number one player [freshman Steph­anie Perez] is a pretty decent player, so it should be a good match up,” Campbell said. 
Perez, despite her youth, is already putting on an im­pressive campaign. She will face off against the Belles’ own No. 1 singles player, sophomore Mary Catherine Faller. Faller performed well against Olivet and looks to bring that same dominance to the match Tuesday. 
“[Faller] played a good match [on Sunday] against a veteran conference number one and got a win,” Campbell said. “I think that will help her bring a little confidence and it should be a fun one to watch.” 
With the spotlight on Faller and the Belles, the team will look to shine at home against the Warriors at 6 p.m. to­night at Notre Dame’s Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 



Coaching 
continued from page 16 

was just great to have around, be­cause even though she wasn’t as good as the other kids she worked hard and did a lot of things just helping the team. 
“Then my niece played for me. Kali was unbelievable for us. She came in ranked pretty low in the juniors but was a great doubles player and just came in and beat a lot of kids who were ranked ahead of her. She got a lot better and did a great job.” 
Louderback said one of the best parts of coaching at Notre Dame is the reunion atmosphere of home football weekends, when he gets to catch up with many of his former athletes. 
“One thing I really enjoy is the fall, because we have so many kids that come back to football games,” Louderback said. “You 

Diggins 
continued from page 16 

much of this season’s success can be attributed to her out­standing play, Diggins was quick to defer praise, particu­larly towards sophomore guard Kayla McBride. 
McBride, who appeared in just 19 games last season due to an off-court issue, has emerged as one of Notre Dame’s leading scorers. McBride chipped in 15 points Monday, one of four Irish players to finish in double-dig­its in scoring. 
“I think Kayla is a player who can score, who can rebound, who can guard a big, guard a guard — she can do it all,” Dig-gins said. “She’s really taking advantage of her opportunities when she gets the ball. She said know they really enjoy getting to come in and getting to spend some time here. They’re having families now and they’re bring­ing their families back, and that’s something that I really enjoy.” 
Although football weekends can feel like team reunions for former teammates, Louderback said one of the most difficult parts of being a collegiate tennis coach is getting freshmen to buy into the team atmosphere. 
“You never know how fresh­men are going to handle it, be­cause they’ve always playing for themselves and maybe for a coach or parents. Now all the sudden, they’re being counted on to win matches not only for themselves but also for their teammates, their school [and] fans,” Louderback said. “Some of them thrive in it, some of them struggle in it. You just nev­er know when you recruit kids. 
“But I try to let them know im­mediately that the bottom line is winning team matches and if they lose fighting out there and our team wins they should be happy.” 
Although Louderback has now coached for 32 years, he said that his favorite part of col­legiate tennis hasn’t changed since he was a student-athlete himself at Wichita State. 
“I really enjoy when we get the chance to compete, get a chance to go on the court and play other teams,” Louderback said. “I enjoy practice — it’s great — but I just really enjoy playing matches, and when I was in college that’s how I was as a player, too.” 
Louderback will oversee the Irish as they travel to Hawaii over spring break. They will kick off their island series with a match against Texas Tech in Honolulu on March 12 at 5 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


we’re getting it to her where she’s comfortable, [but] she knows where to go. 
“I think she’s playing her role to a tee.” 
With just one game remaining before the NCAA tournament, Notre Dame is also playing its role to perfection. A Big East tournament title win Tuesday would all but secure the Irish a 



Defense 
continued from page 16 
scoreboard.” 
Notre Dame has always empha­sized defense as the major com­ponent in its success. Coach Kevin Corrigan and assistant coach Gerry Byrne have made Notre Dame a pre­mier defensive club over the years. 
“We have had a strong defense as long as I’ve been here,” Randall said. 
This season has started even bet­ter on the defensive end than past years. Last season, the Irish gave up 16 goals during the first three matchups, but were also scoring more goals on the offensive end. 
“Our strength this year is a prod­uct of many things, [including] our work in the offseason and pre­season, consistent preparation for other teams during mid-week prac­tices, the ability of younger guys to learn our defense and roles and a little luck,” Randall said. 
Randall’s role has evolved slightly during his tenure on the back line. As a freshman, he started only two games and collected eight appear­ances. Since then, he has started every game for the Irish. This sea­son, however, the title of captain combined with his presence as a se­nior and returning starter has given Randall added responsibility. 
“I suppose earlier in the year, primarily during the fall semester, my role as a senior was to bring the younger guys up to speed,” Randall coveted No. 1 seed in the nation­al tournament. 
“We are right in position where we want to be,” Novosel said. “Going into tomorrow night’s game, there is no doubt that we want to go in and win that [championship] for coach.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
said. “Being in-season now, we all have a firm grasp of who we are in­dividually and as a unit.” 
The Irish do not like to charac­terize themselves as falling into one category of defense or another. Rather, Randall said they want to play sound, fundamental lacrosse, believing that is the best way to keep the ball out of the back of their own net. This could be mistaken for be­ing conservative, he said, but that is not necessarily the case. 
“We have a few simple but im­portant rules and roles, and our adherence to these is what makes our defense effective,” Randall said. “Within our defense, there is some room for individual risk-taking, but probably less so than on other teams.” 
Although the Irish defense has gotten out to a fast start, Randall said there is always room for im­provement. Indentifying those flaws starts in the film room, while solving them happens on the practice field every day. 
“We watch clips of every game a day or two afterwards and the coaching staff will always find areas of improvement,” Randall said. “At this point, we are fine-tuning small details of our defense that have resulted in goals or quality shots throughout our first three games.” 
The next contest for the Irish is a road matchup with Hofstra on March 10 at 3 p.m. 


Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, March 6, 2012 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 



Armstrong shines, Irish struggle in rain-shortened event 
By DREW PANGRAZE  rounds.   Collectively, the  Irish coach Susan Holt  fifth  tournament  of  the  to LSU for a tournament  
Sports Writer  Irish played the remaining  said she was pleased with  year, and first this spring.  this weekend.  
six holes 24-over-par Sun­ Armstrong’s  effort,  but  Holt said that though the  “I’m looking forward to  
Notre Dame finished 13th  day morning. This knocked  also said Armstrong could  result was not what the  us  playing like I know  we  
in the Darius Rucker Inter- them from sixth place down  have  ac- Irish  were  can,” Holt said. “I know we  
collegiate over the weekend in Hilton Head, S.C., when the event ended earlier than expected due to rain. The team arrived Friday and played the Long Cove  to 13th. The tournament was called off following the conclusion of the second round Sunday. The third and final round of competi­ compl i shed more. “She had it to three-under at one point on  “This is the third time we’ve put ourselves in a position to pick up a quality win and not taken advantage.”  hoping for, she is opti­mistic. “This is the third time we’ve  have a talented group. “I have huge expectations for our team going forward. I would be less disappoint­ed if I thought our team wasn’t that good, but that’s  
Golf Club consistently the  tion was not played due to  S a t u r d a y ,  put  our- not the case.   I know we’re  
first two days. Heavy rains  4 inches of water that  ac- but finished  Susan Holt  selves  in  a  better than we have been  
Saturday afternoon, how­ever, forced the players to  cumulated on the course between noon Saturday and  S a t u r d a y with three  Irish coach  position pick-up  to a  playing.” The Irish travel to Ba- 
end  their  second  rounds  6 a.m. Sunday.  s t r a i g h t  quality  win  ton Rouge, La., for the LSU  
early after only 12 holes of  Freshman  Ashley  Arm- bogeys,”  Holt  said.  “She  and  not  taken advantage,”  Tiger Classic this Friday  
play.  strong performed strongly,  played well, but could have  Holt said. “It’s disappoint- through Sunday.  
The Irish struggled Sun- individually  finishing  in  played really great.”  ing, but more opportunities  
day morning as they fin- a tie for 14th place in the  The Darius Rucker Inter- lay ahead.”  Contact Drew Pangraze at  
ished  up  their  second  tournament.  collegiate was the team’s  The Irish will head down  apangraz@nd.edu  

School  Sorenson  
continued from page 16  continued from page 16  
academically and prepare for  her efforts were not enough  
medical school.  to qualify her for the NCAA  
“Notre Dame was kind of a  national meet.  
school I had always wanted  “You have to place in the  
to go to,” Koter said. “I want- top 16 in the nation dur­ 
ed to go to a place where I  ing the regular season [to  
knew I could get a good edu­ qualify for nationals],” So- 
cation.”  renson said. “Since I’m not  
Yet Koter said balancing  going to nationals, it’s all  
his majors in French and Sci- about training for [the out­ 
ence Pre-Professional with  door season]. I’ll be get- 
Division I diving has not  ting back into some harder  
been easy.  workouts.”  
“It’s difficult to spend as  The season’s transition to  
much time studying as you  the outdoor season means  
would like at the end of the  Sorenson must make some  
day when you woke up early  transitions of her own.  
for practice and practiced  “For me, it means run- 
again in the afternoon,” Kot­ ning 100-meter hurdles in- 
er said. “It’s been very diffi­ stead of 60-meter. Relays  
cult, but not impossible.”  are also introduced that  
Koter said mental tough- we don’t have [during the  
ness has been the key to both  indoor season],” she said.  
his diving and academic suc­ “It also brings on a lot of  
cess.  traveling. Since we have a  
“It helps to get in a zone,”  big indoor track, we host  
Koter said. “Diving is a pret­ a lot of indoor meets. For  
ty mental sport. Overcoming  [the outdoor season], we  
mental barriers is really the  travel a ton. We’ll be going  
key to doing well.”  to Florida, Texas, Alabama  
Finishing ninth in the  and California.”  
3-meter event at the Big East  As the Irish begin to look  
championships in February,  forward to the outdoor  
Koter recorded his lowest  season, Sorenson has set  
place overall at the champi­ some big goals for herself  
onships in his collegiate ca- and her team.  
reer.  “I still have my eyes set  
“I didn’t have as good a Big  on winning Big East for  
East meet as I would have  the women’s team,” she  
liked,” Koter said.  “I think  said. “We went from eighth  
the pressure got to me some­ place during indoor last  
what.”  year to fourth this year.  
For Koter, this season has  We did have a lot of great  
had a different feel than his  performances, but we also  
others on the team.  had a lot of hiccups and I  
“This season was a bit of  know our women’s squad  
struggle for me,” Koter said.  can do a lot better. I know  
“It wasn’t everything I’d ex- we can improve a lot more,  
pected or hoped it would be.  even further than we’ve  
I’ve trained better and have  come.”  
definitely become a better  Personally, she wants  
diver. It just hasn’t translat­ to keep pushing her own  
ed into results.”  boundaries.  
Koter hopes next week- “I just want to keep [get­ 
end’s NCAA Zone champion- ting personal records],”  
ships will offer him a chance  Sorenson said. “I’m trying  
to redeem his Big East per- to get my hurdle times for  
formance.  the outdoor season lower  
“Hopefully, I can relax  and hopefully make it to  
a little more this weekend  nationals.”  
and just enjoy diving,” Kot- Sorenson and the rest  
er said. “I’m just looking to  of the Irish travel to the  
improve on where I hoped  Alabama Relays in Tusca- 
I would have been at Big  loosa, Ala., after Spring  
East.”  Break. In the meantime,  
Koter will travel to Bloom- several members of the  
ington, Ind., with the rest  men’s and women’s squads  
of the Irish diving team  will be participating in the  
to compete at the NCAA  NCAA indoor champion- 
Zone championships Friday  ships in Nampa, Idaho this  
through Sunday.  weekend.  
Contact Jonathan Warren at  Contact Laura Coletti at  
jwarren3@nd.edu  lcoletti@nd.edu  



Tuesday, March 6, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE 



HENRy ARNOLD 

EXPND 
JON REPINE 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, March 6, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Bring on UConn 
Dominant performance leaves Irish one game away from title 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Triggered by a 10-2 run in the contest’s opening minutes, No. 3 Notre Dame walloped No. 25 West Virginia 73-45 in the semifinals of the Big East tournament Monday night to advance to its second straight tournament title game. After falling to the Mountaineers in their only home loss of the sea­son Feb. 12, the Irish have now beaten every team in the con­ference at least once. 
“We’re really happy to be able to avenge our loss,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “We played well right from the start. We got out of the gate offensively and shot the ball extremely well. Defensively, we did a much better job on their guards … We had good balance today, which we didn’t have last time, so overall [I’m] just really pleased with the win.” 
Notre Dame (30-2, 15-1 Big East) never trailed the Moun­taineers (23-9, 11-5) and led by as many as 30 points with less than five minutes remaining in the second half. Senior guard Natalie Novosel paced the Irish with 18 points, including a perfect 4-for-4 from behind the arc, as the team shot 42.6 percent for the game. 
In its sixth appearance in program history, Notre Dame will contend for the conference tournament title in a familiar tilt with Connecticut (28-4, 13­3), who dismantled St. John’s 74-43 on Monday. The Huskies have defeated the Irish in each of their six tournament final berths, but Notre Dame has beaten Connecticut in three straight matchups, including the last two during the regu­lar season. 

“I think it’s great for our school, particularly in the sea­son we’ve been having,” junior guard Skylar Diggins said. “This is great for us being able to advance. We’re excited for the opportunity to compete for a Big East championship.” 
Diggins, who finished with nine points, six assists and three steals Monday, was named the Big East Player of the Year on March 2. While 
see DIGGINS/page 13 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Louderback stresses importance of teamwork 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The last time the head coaching position for the women’s tennis team was open, current Irish coach Jay Louderback was reluctant to even apply. 
At the time, Louderback was coaching both the men’s and wom­en’s teams at Iowa State. 
“I really wasn’t looking to leave Iowa State,” Louderback said. “I was trying to decide if I wanted to coach men’s or women’s, and I really wasn’t sure which way I wanted to go yet. 
“But the job opened up and [cur­rent Irish men’s tennis coach Bob] Bayliss called me and kept saying, ‘just apply, get an interview,’ and the Colorado coach, who was a good friend of both of ours, kept saying I needed to go and look at this. So I came here and interviewed and as soon as I came here, I thought, ‘Oh my 
gosh, I’m an idiot, I should have been 
wanting this all along.’” 
That was in 1989. Since then, Loud­
erback has coached 23 Irish squads, 
20 conference championship-win­
ning teams, 12 All-Americans and 
two family members — his daughter, 
Bailey, a 2008 graduate, and niece, 
All-American Kali Krisik, who grad­
uated in 2010. 
Coaching family can be tricky, but 
Louderback was prepared for the po­
tentially thorny situation. 
“When I was coach at Wichita 
State the first recruit I signed was my 
sister,” Louderback said, referring to 
Krisik’s mother, Jan. “I was pretty 
hard on her, being my sister. She was 
a hard worker, not the greatest ath­
lete ever, but she competed well. And 
I think that really helped me when 
then I started coaching my daughter. 
She didn’t play much for us, but she 
see COACHING/page 13 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Sorenson has eyes set on outdoor season 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Nevada Sorenson admits she is forgetful. 
“In the past, I’ve had this ten­dency of forgetting my shoes, my spikes, even my uniform,” the junior sprinter said. “I’ve lost my keys at a meet before. It’s something I worry about.” 
Sorenson had nothing to worry about at the Big East meet two weeks ago, when she ran a personal-best time of 
8.36 seconds in the 60-meter 
hurdles to take first place. “It was really great to run my best race and get the gold,” she said. “I didn’t expect to win going in. I think I was ranked third. Some of the other girls I was running against didn’t do their best, so it was a little bit of luck and a little bit of me running my best race, but luck­ily it all pulled together.” 
Sorenson’s victory helped the Irish place fourth overall at the meet. She finished sixth in the same race this past weekend when Notre Dame hosted the Alex Wilson In­vitational. Unfortunately, 
see SORENSON/page 14 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Koter excels on diving board and in classroom 
By JONATHAN WARREN 
Sports Writer 
When junior Ryan Koter fractured and dislocated his elbow during gymnastics practice as a 12-year-old, he knew his career as a gymnast would never be the same. Faced with diminished pros­pects in that sport, he decided to try diving. 
He found he could utilize many of the same skills he had learned in gymnastics without placing as much physical stress on his elbow. 
“I was disappointed at first, but I fell in love with diving,” Koter said. “I like it a lot bet­ter than I did gymnastics and am lucky to be able to do it. 
“I think I’ve had more suc­cess than I probably would have in gymnastics because of that. In the end, I think it turned out to be a good thing.” 
Koter found success in high school diving, earning three All-American honors before choosing to attend Notre Dame for its academic reputation. A National Merit Finalist in high school, he wanted to challenge himself 
see SCHOOL/page 14 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Randall leads Irish defense 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 

Senior captain Kevin Randall has anchored Notre Dame’s de­fensive corps this season, and in doing so has helped the Irish find success. Randall and the Irish de­fense have allowed only 12 goals through three games on the young season. 
The senior was also selected to the Big East weekly honor roll for his efforts in a 6-5 win Saturday over then-No. 18 Drexel. 
“Holding opponents to three, four or five goals is a matter of pride,” Randall said. “Our hard work throughout the offseason and preseason as a defense is vali­dated by a low number on the 
see DEFENSE/page 13 




