TO UNCOVER 
THE TRUTH 
AND REPORT 
IT ACCURATELY

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING 
NOTRE DAME AND 
SAINT MARY’S

VOLUME 46, ISSUE 47 | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

ELECTION 2012

Experts address candidates’ health care plans

Kristen Durbin
News Editor
Although the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) this summer, the debate over the future of American health care continues to be a major is­sue, especially as the outcome of Tuesday’s presidential election could potentially change the tra­jectory set by the ACA.
If President Barack Obama wins reelection, he will focus on the implementation of fundamental elements of the ACA beginning in 2014, including affordable insur­ance exchanges and a significant expansion of Medicaid, according to Dr. Aaron Carroll, the director of the Center for Health Policy and Professionalism Research.
But Jim Capretta, a fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center and author of “Why Obamacare is Wrong for America,” said the ACA will lead the country down the road to ineffective, expensive health care reform due to a large-scale centralization of power by the federal government, a move Republican candidate Gov. Mitt Romney opposes.
“It’s indisputable that the main aim of the ACA is to use the federal government’s regulatory, taxing and spending authority to reshape the health care system and move massive amounts of political pow­er out of the hands of employers and private citizens and states 


AP
President Obama and Gov. Mitt Romney argue during the second presidential debate at Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y..

see HEALTH PAGE 5

Indiana 2nd District race down to the wire

Mullen draws closer as Election Day approaches

Walorski touts Hoosier roots, fiscal responsibility


By JOHN CAMERON
News Editor
As Republican Congressional hopeful Jackie Walorski eyes Indiana’s 2nd District’s seat in the House of Representatives, she said she hopes to bring bi­partisanship to a legislature too strongly divided across aisles. 
“Congress has a record low approval rating due to partisan gridlock and runaway spend­ing that has resulted in an un­productive Congress,” Walorski said. “If I am elected, I will bring Hoosier common sense to Washington.”
With the election depending on the votes of Americans 

By ADAM LLORENS
News Writer
After months of speeches, fundraisers, handshakes and kissed babies, voters in Indiana’s 2nd Congressional District will decide whether Democrat Brendan Mullen or Republican Jackie Walorski will represent them on Capitol Hill.
Notre Dame professor and former political reporter Jack Colwell said the race is still close with only four days re­maining until Election Day.
“At the start of the race, it was generally regarded as Jackie’s district,” Colwell 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer



AP
Republican candidate Jackie Walorski speaks to supporters in LaPorte, Ind., Oct. 9.

AP
Democratic candidate Brendan Mullen visits seniors in South Bend, Ind., on Nov. 1.

see WALORSKI PAGE 6

see HOUSE PAGE 6

Gay rights play limited role in election cycle

By MEL FLANAGAN
News Writer
With the election approach­ing rapidly, undecided voters must hone in on the issues most important to them. For some, that paramount issue might be gay rights.
Political science professor Geoffrey Layman said gay is­sues have played a limited role in this year’s election, despite major developments in gay and lesbian rights recently.
“Like all other issues, they have been dwarfed in impor­tance by the economy,” he said.
These issues have also been sidelined due to Republican hesitation to broach a topic that would likely benefit the Democrats more than their own party, Layman said.
“Public support for same-sex marriage and for gay and lesbian rights more generally has been increasing rapidly,” he said. “These things are very unpopular among the activist base of the GOP, but are much more popular among the unde­cided voters on whom general election campaigns focus.”
Further, Layman said the lim­ited space in the public mind for moral issues has been occupied by topics besides gay rights.
“The controversies over President Obama’s health care program and especially the HHS mandate have brought abortion and reproductive is­sues once again to the fore­front,” he said.
Layman said the limited fo­cus on gay issues in this election 

see RIGHTS PAGE 3




The whole ballot

SCENE PAGE 11

HOUSE RACES PAGE 3

VIEWPOINT PAGE 8

IRISH INSIDER WITHIN

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

QUESTION OF THE DAY:

Have a question you want answered?
Email obsphoto@gmail.com



ndsmcobserver.com
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556
Editor-in-Chief
Allan Joseph
Managing Editor                  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle                              Jeff Liptak
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Andrew Owens
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Sam Stryker
	News Editor:	John Cameron
	News Editor:	Kristen Durbin
	Viewpoint Editor:	Meghan Thomassen
	Sports Editor:	Chris Allen
	Scene Editor:	Kevin Noonan
	Saint Mary’s Editor:	Jillian Barwick
	Photo Editor:	Suzanna Pratt
	Graphics Editor:	Brandon Keelean
	Multimedia Editor:	Sarah O’Connor
	Advertising Manager:	Monica McCormack
	Ad Design Manager:	Sara Hilstrom
	Controller:	Peter Woo
	Systems Administrator:	William Heineman
Office Manager & General Info
Ph: (574) 631-7471
Fax: (574) 631-6927
Advertising
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com
Editor-in-Chief
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu
Managing Editor
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu
Assistant Managing Editors
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu
sstryke1@nd.edu
Business Office
(574) 631-5313
News Desk
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com
Viewpoint Desk
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com
Sports Desk
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com
Scene Desk
(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com
Saint Mary’s Desk
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu
Photo Desk
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com
Systems & Web Administrators
(574) 631-8839
Policies
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content.
	The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer.
	Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information.
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph.
Post Office Information
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.
A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester.
The Observer is published at:
024 South Dining Hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices
POSTMASTER
Send address corrections to:
The Observer
P.O. Box 779
024 South Dining hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press.
All reproduction rights are reserved.

What  major would you be worst at?



Caroline Quinn
sophomore
Lyons Hall
“Engineering.”

Erin Doone
sophomore
off campus
“Engineering.”



Helen Mulcahy
sophomore
Lyons Hall
“Theology.”

Clare Yarka
junior
Ryan Hall
“Art.”



Mary Wickert
sophomore
Ryan Hall
“Physics.”

Libby Wetterer
sophomore
Lyons Hall
“Chemical Engineering.”


SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer
Students signed a giant board to thank donors for their generosity to the University on Thursday.  Hundreds of names covered the board outside O’Shaughnessy Hall.      

Today’s Staff

THE NEXT FIVE DAYS:

Want your event included here?
Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com

News
Meghan Thomassen
Christian Myers
Maddie Daly
Graphics
Sara Shoemake
Photo
Suzanna Pratt
Sports
Laura Coletti
Matthew DeFranks
Vicki Jacobsen
Scene
Kevin Noonan
Viewpoint
Meghan Thomassen

Friday
Readings from Dante’s “Divine Comedy”
Campus-wide
2 p.m.-5 p.m.
Public performance.
ND Chorale Concert
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center
8 p.m.-9 p.m.
Renaissance to present-day works.
Saturday
Nuclear Accelerator Tours
124 Nieuwland Hall
10 a.m.-1 p.m.
Tours leave every 15 minutes.
BINGO
LaFortune Student Center
10 p.m.-1 a.m.
Free and open to all students.
Sunday
U.S. Army Field Band and Soldier’s Chorus
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center
2 p.m.-3:30 p.m.
Free concert.
Hockey Game
Compton Family Ice Arena
5:05 p.m.-7:05 p.m.
ND vs. Western Michigan
Monday
“Seed of the Church: Today’s Christian Martyrs”
McKenna Hall
All day.
Keynote speakers.
10th Annual Baraka Bouts Tournament - Semis
Joyce Center
6 p.m.-11 p.m.
Proceeds go to charity.
Tuesday
Blood Drive
Rolf’s Sports Recreation Center
11 a.m.-5:30 p.m.
Appointments are encouraged.
Film: Citizen Kane
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center
2 p.m.-3:59 p.m.
Free for ND students with ID.

Corrections
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.

3

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

Republicans positioned to retain House 

By NICOLE MICHELS
News Writer
Voters in 81 districts across the country will choose their voices in the U.S. House of Representatives on Election Day. Though the number of contested seats allows the Democrats ample oppor­tunity to infringe upon the Republicans’ current con­trol of the House at 242 to 193, political science profes­sor Ricardo Ramirez said he does not believe this round of elections will alter the bal­ance of power in the House significantly.
“They’re just going to so­lidify their current strength as Republicans,” Ramirez said.  “There are states where the demographics have shifted so that there are more competi­tive seats, but it’s not because those drawing the districts have purposely tried to give people options — sometimes there’s enough movement over ten years so that it does create opportunities.”
The 2012 election is the first to incorporate the results of the 2010 census into the dis­tricting scheme, shifting the allocation of seats. Ramirez said this redistricting will only have a limited effect.
“Because redistricting happened, those states that have the state legislators drawing the districts have a lot of Republicans in control of a lot of the state legislatures and governors they redistricted to benefit Republicans at the Congressional level,” Ramirez said. “But when they gain those seats I don’t think they’ll pick up any more.”
Population shifts manifest in the new census data have shifted the composition of the electorate, Ramirez said.  
“The three biggest growth segments were young voters as they have started to vote more and two specific segments of the population — Asian Americans and Latinos,” Ramirez said.
These groups will only be­come more influential as they are incorporated into the American political system, Ramirez said.
“Once [Latinos and Asian Americans] reach five or six percent, I think that’s when some of the Congressional rac­es and statehouses will begin showing fruits for whatever party outreaches to them, be­cause neither party does a fan­tastic job [at reaching out to them] now,” Ramirez said.  “If there’s more outreach to them not only as young communi­ties but also as immigrant-based communities I think they will have a big say.”
Changes in the number of a state’s seats create challenges for its politicians, Ramirez said.
“It’s different when a state has gained a seat or lost a seat,” Ramirez said.  “States have lost seats and all of a sudden you’ll have two former incumbents running against each other or two from the same party, changes in party choice or par­ty ID.  When you have gained an additional seat those changes are easier to deal with … most of those issues are very different and dealt with at the primary level.”
The most important issues in any race to be decided on Nov. 6 is the economy, but the issues of abortion and contraception come into play strongly in House races as well, Ramirez said.
“Obviously it varies across regions or states — if you’re talking at the presidential lev­el, those issues are not going to be the same as Congressional races,” Ramirez said.  
[The Affordable Health Care Act] has stirred passions in many House races — particu­larly in the state of Indiana — because the conserva­tive elements have chosen to run with the argument that won them success in the 2010 elections.
“I think among Republicans running at least locally for the U.S. House and the Senate [are] very much against Obamacare — I think it resonates with their base,” Ramirez said.  “I think with the Democrats there are less concrete issues they’re focusing on, at least locally.” 
Indiana voting attitudes seem to be representative of the Midwest pattern in gen­eral, Ramirez said.
“In general, Republicans have control but then you have pockets of Democrats,” Ramirez said.  “In general in the state because it is rural, that’s why the governors have been Republican.”
The unified Indiana view­point intrigues Ramirez, he said.
“It’s been interesting since I got here to Indiana,” Ramirez said.  “The topic of the way Hoosiers are, the state and locality identity aside, all are still very much the Hoosier way.”
All in all, this election likely will not be shocking, Ramirez said.
“Democrats might regain a few of the seats that they lost that they shouldn’t have lost but I don’t think it’s going to switch Democrat,” Ramirez said.  “I don’t think it’s going to switch to Democrat, the only thing that’s going to allow them to do that eventually will be population shifts for the next census or towards the end of the decade.”
Contact Nicole Michels at
nmichels@nd.edu

“Once [Latinos and Asian Americans] reach five or six percent, I think that’s when some of the Congressional races and statehouses will begin showing fruits for whatever party reaches out to them, because neither party does a fantastic job [at reaching out to them] now.”
Ricardo Ramirez
political science professor

“I don’t think it’s going to switch to Democrat, the only thing that’s going to allow them to do that eventually will be population shifts for the next census or towards the end of the decade.”
Ricardo Ramirez
political science professor

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


Rights
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

is similar to the 2008 election. Then, as now, the election was dominated by economic crisis.
But in the 2004 election, Layman said the issue of gay rights was a crucial topic that was addressed frequently.
“Same-sex marriage was more important for the 2004 election because key battle­ground states — Ohio in par­ticular — had same-sex ballot initiatives and those affected the turnout of supporters and opponents of those initiatives in the presidential election,” Layman said.
Although several states had same-sex initiatives on the bal­lot in 2008, Layman said they did not largely impact the elec­tion because they were not bat­tleground states.
Despite the increased preva­lence of gay issues in today’s culture, Layman said he does not believe they typically have a large impact on an individual’s vote.
“To the extent that people consider issues at all, they base their voting decisions far more on economic issues than on cul­tural and moral issues like gay rights, same-sex marriage and abortion,” he said.
He did acknowledge these issues play a large role in de­termining the votes of certain groups of people.
“For example, gay and lesbian voters themselves and the tra­ditionalist Christian voters who are staunchly opposed to same-sex marriage and other advanc­es in gay and lesbian rights,” Layman said.
Layman said it is difficult to determine for certain whether homosexual citizens tend to ally with a particular party due to the small number of self-identified gay and lesbi­an voters in national sample surveys.
“However, the existing evi­dence suggests that gay and les­bian voters lean strongly toward the Democratic Party,” he said.
Contact Mel Flanagan at
mflanag3@nd.edu

Write News.
Email us at
obsnewseditor.nd@gmail.com

4

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

NEWS

Alumnus bikes to raise funds

SMC choir places second

By LUCIE GORDON
News Writer
During its first appearance in the national competition, the Saint Mary’s Women’s Choir earned second place in the American Prize in Choral Performance compe­tition in the college and uni­versity division in October. The contest recognized the College choir as one of nine finalists for the award. 
Conductor Dr. Nancy Menk said her group set a precedent for an all-wom­en’s choir placing near the top at the competition.
“We were the first wom­en’s choir to place in the top three,” Menk said.  “That was an honor.” 
Menk is a professor of mu­sic, director of choral activi­ties and the Mary Lou Judd Leighton Chair in Music at the College. She also serves as conductor and music di­rector of the South Bend Chamber Singers, which also competed for the American Prize and placed among the top eight finalists in the community division.
“I am proud of both choirs,” she said.
Founded in 2009, the American Prize honors out­standing choirs that submit recordings to be reviewed.  There are six categories: professional chorus, college or university level chorus, community or faith-based chorus, secondary school chorus, youth chorus and children’s chorus.  
The Women’s Choir, cur­rently comprised of ap­proximately 45 students, has performed across the coun­try as well as internationally and recorded four CDs.  
For the competition, the Women’s Choir submitted a CD entitled “Anima mea,” Latin for “My soul.”  The CD includes a number of relatively current, 20th- and 21st-century songs. 
Senior Ashley Stopczynski credited much of the group’s success to Menk.
“Dr. Menk ensures that we get a well-rounded cho­ral experience by includ­ing upbeat, slower and different styles of music,” said Stopczynski.
Stopczynski said its “Anima mea” CD is a testa­ment to the choir’s talent, an excellent tool for sharing that talent with others.
 “Dr. Menk makes it a point to give a good ex­ample of women’s choral music to younger singers,” Stopczynski said.  
Menk and Stopczynski both said being an all-fe­male choir did not give them any kind of edge in this competition.
“A good choir is a good choir,” Menk said.
Stopczynski agreed, but she said the group is still unique.
“I actually don’t think women choirs get enough recognition for the beau­ty of the sound,” she said. “However, being the only female group to win is an amazing experience. … It’s wonderful to be recognized for the work we put into our music.” 
Contact Lucie Gordon at
lgordo01@saintmarys.edu


“Dr. Menk makes it a point to give a good example of women’s choral music to younger singers.”
Ashley Stopczynski
Saint Mary’s senior

Photo courtesy of Andean Health and Development 
Dr. Michael Heisler poses with his wife Jean. Heisler biked from Sioux Falls, S.D., to Notre Dame in six days and raised more than $63,000.

“I actually don’t think women choirs get enough recognition for the beauty of the sound.”
Ashley Stopczynski
Saint Mary’s senior

By LILY MCGILL
News Writer
Notre Dame alumnus Dr. Michael Heisler biked 630 miles in six days last week to raise more than $63,000 for Hesburgh Hospital, a teaching and research hospital planned in Santo Domingo, Ecuador. 
Dr. Heisler’s journey began last weekend in his home­town, Sioux Falls, S.D. From there, he biked for six and a half days to Notre Dame to at­tend the Andean Health and Development (AHD) board meeting, which will be held this Friday in the Hesburgh Center. 
AHD, founded in 1995 by Notre Dame alumnus Dr. David Gaus and chaired by University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, was created to pro­vide self-sustainable, compre­hensive health care in poor, rural areas of Latin America. Access to health care in these rural communities is limited. Residents must drive as long as three and half hours on dan­gerous roads to the Ecuadorian capital of Quito without any guarantee of care. 
“When AHD built its first hospital [in Pedro Vicente Maldonado], they were given the advice, ‘When you build a hospital, don’t build something as inexpensively as you can. Don’t waste money, but build a building that has some stature to it, a good building that will last for years,’” Heisler said. 
“So they did. The first week the hospital opened, people didn’t come. Nobody could figure it out. So they went out into the community and asked, ‘How come you’re not com­ing to the hospital? This is our community’s hospital.’  And the people said, ‘We didn’t think it was for us, we thought it was for other people.’ Because they never had a hospital like that before, they never had health care accessible.”
“I got this hair-brained idea one day: Why don’t I just ride my bike over to the board meet­ing?” Heisler said. “I know it’s kind of crazy, but maybe we can raise some money. I honestly was hoping to raise $40,000 in my wildest imagination.” 
In fact, proceeds from “630 in 6 for 63” raised over $70,000, well past the original goal. This money will go towards AHD’s Vision campaign, whose goal is to raise $6 million to build Hesburgh Hospital. The hospi­tal will include a 50-bed hos­pital, a physician residency facility, a nurse training facil­ity and a global health research center. So far, AHD has raised $3.6 million. 
“I think as we got closer and people saw how cold the tem­peratures were, they started to feel sorry for me,” Heisler said.
AHD is dedicated to build­ing quality hospitals that ad­dress that need and can be sustained and staffed by local Ecuadorians. He also credited the organization’s mission for people’s donations.
“I think what Andean Health is doing is important,” Heisler said. “You can do these kinds of fundraisers, but if you’re not raising funds for something that makes sense to people, no­body’s going to contribute.” 
“People say to me, ‘Why did you ride 600 miles?’ and ‘Why did you get on your bike and get involved?’” he said. “Well, partially because I’m crazy. But the real reason is, because we try to do work that has some purpose.”
Contact Lily McGill at
lmcgill@nd.edu

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


“You can do these kinds of fundraisers, but if you’re not raising funds for something that makes sense to people, nobody’s going to contribute.”
Dr. Michael Heisler
Vice chair
Andean Health and Development

5

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

to the federal government,” he said. “The government is now in the driver’s seat of the health care system … where it can direct what people do in terms of health care.” 
Capretta said he thinks that shift in power could prove treach­erous in its future consequences. 
“Anyone who’s worked around the political process knows that things like this have a certain in­evitable trajectory. First of all, bu­reaucracies never cede power,” he said. “Once power is moved to the federal government, it will only expand over time. 
“The federal government is a one-size-fits-all structure that doesn’t have the authority to be nimble in managing a big enter­prise like the health care system, and it will dictate terms … that don’t recognize the diverse nature of the country and very different views on quality health care.” 
Rather than dictating every health care decision Americans make, Carroll said the ACA sets a standard of universal coverage and gives people options to ex­pand that coverage if desired. 
“The idea that the federal gov­ernment is taking over everything is a bit overblown in the sense that they’re just setting baselines. They’re absolutely not saying, ‘You can’t get this or that cover­age.’ They’re just saying, ‘You can’t have less coverage than this,’” Carroll said. “Individual states can do as much as they like above that baseline.”
In terms of state power in health care reform, Capretta said decen­tralizing power from the federal government to state governments, as Romney has proposed, would promote freedom of choice among consumers and help strengthen the market for private health care.
“Romney wants to push the health care system towards a market-driven approach instead of centralizing power at the fed­eral level and do so in a way where the federal and state governments oversee the marketplace, ensure that it operates fairly on behalf of consumers and then try to em­power people to make choices for themselves,” he said. 
More specifically, the issue of entitlement reform has come into heavy questioning in the context of increased government influ­ence on the health care system. 
“Throughout the campaign, Romney has signaled that he will take entitlement reform very se­riously as president,” Capretta said. “Obama has signaled that he doesn’t want to make structural changes to either of the major health entitlement programs, so there’s a big difference between the two candidates in this regard.”
But Carroll said Obama actu­ally prioritized Medicare and Medicaid reform in the ACA.
Although Medicare often takes the national spotlight in presi­dential and other political de­bates, Carroll said the differences in the two candidates’ policies on Medicaid are actually “much sharper,” with Obama and the ACA stipulating a “massive ex­pansion” of Medicaid to include 16 million additional people be­ginning in 2014 and Romney pro­posing to change Medicaid into a block grant program that provides funds to states to pay for care. 
“[The block grant program] saves money by severely restrict­ing how quickly the size of the block grant goes up. A low cap will be set, so the amount of money spent on Medicaid under Romney will be much lower than oth­erwise predicted,” Carroll said. “Unless there’s some magic, that means there will have to be fewer people covered or the benefits will be far less.” 
Critics of the ACA often point to the Medicaid expansion as a huge drain on government and taxpay­er resources, but Carroll said the program’s insurance plans cost less per person than providing subsidies to people to buy private insurance. 
“If it was cheaper to give people subsidies, that’s what the ACA would have done because no one wants to spend more than they need to on care,” he said. “The rea­son we have Medicaid is because certain groups of people can’t af­ford private insurance.”
Contrary to the common per­ception of Medicaid beneficia­ries as people who choose not to work, Carroll said the program mostly covers the most vulnerable Americans who are generally un­able to work: children, pregnant women, the elderly, the blind and the disabled.
“It’s not as if they’re people who should be working and are not. They’re people who can’t work for some reason, so insurance is in­credibly expensive for them,” he said. “The amount of Medicaid funds spent on the blind and the disabled is huge, much higher than what’s spent on kids, and private insurance would cost a fortune be­cause anyone rating them would see that their care is vastly more ex­pensive than the average person.” 
Thus, considering Medicaid funding cuts or a repeal of the pro­gram’s expansion under the ACA brings up a fundamental ethical question, Carroll said.
“If you’re thinking about cutting Medicaid severely, you have to ask yourself which of those groups you think should be working harder,” he said. “Which should be getting off their butts and earning more money and pulling themselves up by their bootstraps?”
Although critics may view Obamacare and its call for ex­panded coverage as a violation of individual decision-making in health care, Carroll said the prob­lems in the American health care system are not individualized. 
“It’s logically consistent to take the libertarian view and say ev­erybody makes individual choices about health care,” Carroll said. “But the problem arises when people get sick, go to the emergen­cy room and are charged for care they can’t afford. When people can’t pay, the rest of society has to pick up the bill. It’s not individu­alized, and eventually we’re all responsible for the millions of dol­lars in uncompensated care that gets spread out among people.”
More than shared responsibil­ity, Capretta said the American health care system needs an injec­tion of free-market sensibility to operate more efficiently. 
“What’s needed most in health care is the discipline that comes from a functioning marketplace, a point Romney made in the first de­bate,” Capretta said. “That doesn’t mean the discipline from market forces can’t also be coupled with a proposal that provides relatively stable and relatively universal insurance.” 
Based on the example of un­compensated care being paid for by taxpayers, Carroll said he is not convinced of the power of free-market economics to solve the country’s health care reform issues. 
“You can let the free market try to take care of [health care re­form], but it doesn’t work, and the same argument can be made for states,” Carroll said. “States have been free to act on health care re­form — Massachusetts did several years ago — but the vast majority of states are not controlling this problem, so when the problem isn’t controlled, the public has to pick up the bill, and that’s when government often steps in.”
On both sides of the political spectrum, Carroll said, the power of the free market and the private insurance system has certain limitations.
“Because [Americans] will even­tually take care of [uncompensat­ed care], the next-best solution is to get people into the government health system because it’s not be­ing controlled by market forces,” he said. “Even the right will ac­knowledge that the government should step in when the free mar­ket and private insurance can’t or won’t get the job done.”
Romney has come under fire for not specifying what he would do after threatening to repeal the entire ACA if elected, but Capretta said the lack of a detailed plan cre­ates flexibility. 
“Obviously, Romney’s plan is more of a vision than a detailed legislative proposal at this point, and I don’t discount the notion that a lot of details are being left out. But I think his broad vision is relatively clear,” he said. “His framework leaves lots of room for some details to be filled in later.” 
But Carroll said the alternative to the ACA might not be as per­fect as Romney may consider his theory to be.
“It’s not as if you have the choice between the ACA and some awe­some free market utopia,” he said. “It’s the ACA or what we had be­fore, which wasn’t working and hasn’t been working for a long time.”
Contact Kriten Durbin at
kdurbin@nd.edu

Health
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


PAID ADVERTISEMENT


6

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

NEWS

Walorski
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

without party affiliations, Walorski said in an email in­terview this week that her team has made a strong effort to ap­peal to voters who do not self-identify as Republican.
“We have built an incred­ible grassroots team in the 2nd District, supported by a wide spectrum of Hoosier voters,” she said. “On the campaign trail, we continually hear from voters about their concerns with the direction our coun­try is going. This election is not about political parties, it’s about sending an independent voice to Washington to work on bipartisan solutions to get us back on track.”
Walorski said she considers the deficit and other economic issues to be of the utmost im­portance in this year’s election.
“I will work to reduce our $16 trillion [national] debt by supporting a balanced bud­get amendment and reducing government spending,” she said. “The federal government must learn to live within its means, just like common sense Hoosiers.”
Walorski said she will bring the same fiscal policies that helped Indiana restore its finan­cial health while she served as a state representative from 2004 to 2011.
“We did this in Indiana by working together to balance the budget, reduce wasteful spend­ing and passing pro-business legislation,” she said. “Indiana successfully restored our AAA-bond rating, turned a deficit into a surplus and is now con­sidered one of the best Midwest states to start a business.
“I believe we can use this model in Congress to pass meaningful legislation to get our country back on track,” she said.
For students at Notre Dame and across the country, Walorski said job growth and employment are the most im­portant issues.
“Many college graduates have difficulty finding a job when they graduate due to our slug­gish economy,” she said. “With more jobs, college students are able to quickly enter the work­force and begin building their professional careers. It also makes it easier for students to start paying off their loans.”
Indiana college students, she said, have been integral to her campaign.
“I’m grateful that our cam­paign has received support from many local schools and universities, including Notre Dame,” she said. “Many stu­dents have volunteered to in­tern, make phone calls, go door-to-door and attend events for our campaign.”
Engaging local politics is an important part of being an in­formed young voter, she said. 
“I think it is important for young people to engage them­selves with the real issues fac­ing our country,” she said. “All voters should learn about the platform of their local candi­dates and understand how their representation may affect their futures on all issues.”
Contact John Cameron at
jcamero2@nd.edu

House
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

said. “She unsuccessfully ran against [Sen.] Joe Donnelly in 2010, but came close. She also has a lot of name recognition, where Mullen is virtually unknown.”
Colwell said the Republican-controlled state legislature redrew voting dis­trict lines in a way likely to in­corporate more right-leaning voters in the district, favoring Walorski’s odds.
“She began as a very heavy favorite, but Mullen came on in an impressive way,” Colwell said. “Whether he can actu­ally catch up and win is far from certain, but he’s made a race of it that’s shown by some of the national groups spending heavily in this dis­trict now. Neither side would spend if they figured the race was over.”
With voters looking for more bipartisanship, both candidates stress their will­ingness to reach across the aisle in Washington, Colwell said. 
“Jackie is saying she would be an independent voice and Mullen says he’d be a mod­erate, along the lines of Joe Donnelly, the Democrat who represents the district now,” he said.
The spending includes funds from political consul­tant Karl Rove’s Super PAC, American Crossroads, which is backing Walorski. Mullen is getting support from Democratic PACs and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
Name recognition has been difficult for Mullen in these new areas. To draw enough votes, Colwell said Mullen must win big in St. Joseph County, the most populous county of the 10 in the dis­trict, because his chances in the other nine are not good.
Part of the headwinds Mullen will face through­out the district, Colwell said, comes from his opponent’s associating him with contro­versial figures and policies in Washington.
“Walorski is trying to por­tray him as a Washington insider who was recruited by [House of Representatives mi­nority leader] Nancy Pelosi to try and run in the district, and links him to President Obama and Obamacare,” Colwell said. “Mullen tries to link her to the Tea Party, which in­deed did support her; Richard Mourdock, the Indiana Republican senatorial candi­date who recently made con­troversial comments about abortion; and calls her a ca­reer politician.”
The two candidates’ first and only television debate together occurred Tuesday at WSBT studios in Mishawaka. Mullen and Walorski also held a radio debate in Wabash, Ind., on Oct. 25.
Colwell said Mullen came across as more assertive than Walorski in the de­bates because of the “pre­vent defense” Walorski has adopted to preserver her favorable poll numbers.
“Mullen tried to get in all of his points and was critical of Walorski on the privatization of social security,” Colwell said. “Walorski seemed more intent on not making a mistake to preserve what’s assumed to be her lead.”
Colwell attributed some of the contention in the race to the district’s resi­dents’ moderate political leanings.
“Both parties in seeking control of the House will zero in on this district as one that could be won,” Colwell said. “There are a lot of congressional dis­tricts across the country where it’s obvious that one party will win, but if it’s close, both sides will come in spending millions of dollars to make television stations happy.”
Contact Adam Llorens at
allorens@nd.edu

“We have built an incredible grassroots team in the 2nd District, supported by a wide spectrum of Hoosier voters.”
Jackie Walorski
Republican candidate
Indiana 2nd District

“Jackie is saying she would be an independent voice and Mullen says he’s be a moderate, along the lines of Joe Donnelly, the Democrat who represents the district now.”
Jack Colwell
American studies professor

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


PAID ADVERTISEMENT


7

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

Gas stations running low in wake of Sandy

Associated Press
NEW YORK — There’s plenty of gasoline in the Northeast — just not at gas stations.
In parts of New York and New Jersey, drivers lined up Thursday for hours at gas sta­tions that were struggling to stay supplied. The power out­ages and flooding caused by Superstorm Sandy have forced many gas stations to close and disrupted the flow of fuel from refineries to those stations that are open.
At the same time, millions of gallons of gasoline are sitting at the ready in storage tanks, pipelines and tankers that can’t unload their cargoes.
“It’s like a stopped up drain,” said Tom Kloza, Chief Oil Analyst at the Oil Price Information Service.
For people staying home or trying to restart a business, the scene wasn’t much brighter: Millions were in the dark and many will remain so for days. As of Thursday, 4.5 million homes were without power, down from a peak of 8.5 million. The New Jersey utility Public Service Electric & Gas said it will restore power to most peo­ple in 7 to 10 days. Consolidated Edison, which serves New York City and Westchester County, said most customers will have power by Nov. 11, but some might have to wait an addition­al week or longer.
Superstorm Sandy found a host of ways to cripple the re­gion’s energy infrastructure. Its winds knocked down power lines and its floods swamped electrical substations that send power to entire neighbor­hoods. It also mangled ports that accept fuel tankers and flooded underground equip­ment that sends fuel through pipelines. Without power, fuel terminals can’t pump gasoline onto tanker trucks, and gas sta­tions can’t pump fuel into cus­tomers’ cars.
The Energy Department re­ported Thursday that 13 of the region’s 33 fuel terminals were closed. Sections of two major pipelines that serve the area — the Colonial Pipeline and the Buckeye Pipeline — were also closed.
Thousands of gas stations in New Jersey and Long Island were closed because of a lack of power. AAA estimates that 60 percent of the stations in New Jersey are shut along with up to 70 percent of the stations in Long Island.
Thursday morning the traffic to a Hess station on 9th Avenue in New York City filled two lanes of the avenue for two city blocks. Four police officers were directing the slow parade of cars into the station.
A few blocks away, a Mobil station sat empty behind or­ange barricades, with a sign ex­plaining it was out of gas.
Taxi and car service drivers were running dry — and giv­ing up, even though demand for rides was high because of the crippled public transit sys­tem. Northside Car Service in Williamsburg, Brooklyn has 250 drivers available on a typical Thursday evening. Today they had just 20. “The gas lines are too long,” said Thomas Miranda, an operator at Northside.
Betty Bethea, 59, waited near­ly three hours to get to the front of the line at a Gulf station in Newark, but she brought rein­forcements: Her kids were there with gas cans, and her husband was behind her in his truck.
Bethea had tried to drive to her job at a northern New Jersey Kohl’s store on Thursday morning, only to find her low-fuel light on. She and her hus­band crisscrossed the region in search of gas and were shooed away by police at every closed station she encountered.
“It is crazy out here — people scrambling everywhere, cut­ting in front of people. I have never seen New Jersey like this,” Bethea said.
But relief appeared to be on the way, even as the lines grew Thursday. The Environmental Protection Agency lifted re­quirements for low-smog gas­oline, allowing deliveries of gasoline from other regions. Tanker trucks sped north from terminals in Baltimore and other points south with fuel.
A big delivery of fuel was on its way south to Boston from a Canadian refinery. Ports and terminals remained open in Connecticut, Rhode Island, and Pennsylvania, and portions of the Colonial and Buckeye pipe­lines are expected to re-open on Friday. Kinder Morgan Energy Partners expects to open its three terminals in New Jersey and New York over the next two days after bringing in backup generators.


AP
Residents of Keyport, N.J., wait in line for gasoline. Hurricane Sandy has prevented normal fuel distribution processes on the East Coast.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


8

8

8

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

The whole ballot

INSIDE COLUMN

Too indecisive

At this point, you might be sick of hearing about the election. Whether you’re trying to watch television, scroll through your Twitter feed or even just listen to some music on Pandora, the presidential election seems to be dominating every conversation as the contest hits fever pitch less than a week before Election Day.
While the contest for the Oval Office draws nearly ev­ery headline, it’s only a part of why Tuesday is impor­tant. If there’s anything presidential history has taught us, it’s that the President’s agenda only goes so far — for Congress shapes what the White House can and cannot do. And if you’ve only been following the top item on the ballot, you’re missing out on what’s truly important.
This election goes far beyond Washington. Races for state legislatures, governorships, judicial positions, bal­lot issues and even county sheriffs all matter to the way you live your daily life. Think about it: Schools, roads, police and almost all of the other ways we encounter government on a daily basis depend more on the state and local officials we elect than how the President deals with the Departments of Education, Transportation and Homeland Security. 
We often hear from our classmates that voting simply doesn’t matter. Perhaps you might be from a solid red state or a consistently blue one, and because the out­come of your state’s electoral votes won’t be a surprise, you might think your vote doesn’t matter out of the mil­lions that will be cast. No matter how your vote plays into the presidential election, that sentiment is simply not true on state and local levels. In state elections, turnout is more often measured in the thousands; in local ones, it’s often in the hundreds. Your vote absolutely matters in those races — and it matters in the day-to-day issues that affect you most. 
Across the country, 176 referendums in 38 states — in­cluding several on medical marijuana, tax policy and health care — are up for vote. Gay marriage is on the ballot in four different states this year. The U.S. Senate majority could be overturned if a few undecided states swing red. The governor you put in office is responsible for appointing your state’s judges and approving your state’s budget. States all around the country have the chance to break new ground on issues that matter — just because not all of them came up in the three televised presidential debate doesn’t mean they’re not valuable issues. Your voice matters here too. The principle is the same as when you get involved and make your mark on campus; even the smallest contribution can be enough to tip the scales one way or another at home. Treat your voice in your family’s community as respectfully and carefully as you do here. 
It’s not easy, and we understand that. You’re busy — there are a thousand other things on your mind that seem more pressing and more urgent than spending an hour researching candidates to decide on a vote. You might even have trouble finding good information from people other than your parents and neighbors. But it’s worth the effort. Go to your local newspaper’s election guide, or perhaps a site like RealClearPolitics. Go straight to the candidates’ websites themselves. Just as your professors tell you not to cite Wikipedia in your papers, due dili­gence is necessary in choosing a candidate. But which candidate takes office following Election Day is not the only issue at stake. 
We know it’s exhausting, and we know it’s taking over your life. But don’t miss the rest of the ballot just because you’re sick of the presidential horse race. There’s more to Election Day than you might think, and your vote means more than you might think, too.

EDITORIAL


Suzanna Pratt
Photography Editor

I can’t make decisions. 
I can’t decide if this column is the worst thing I’ve ever written, or if the two papers I handed in this morning deserve that honor. We’ll let my professors decide that one.
I can’t decide if I want to fast-forward to May so I can graduate and become a real person with a real life, or if I want to rewind to the start of freshman year and redo my entire college experience. 
I can’t decide if I should get a goldfish or a potted cactus. I’d probably inadvertently kill both.
I can’t decide if I should put on a sweater and turn off the radiator in my room, or if I should pretend that climate change isn’t real so I can continue to wear shorts indoors.
I can’t decide if I want it to snow already so I can wear sweaters and scarves or if I want to transplant campus to a tropical island so I can go to the beach every day after class. 
I can’t decide if I need to do laundry to­morrow or if I can stretch my wardrobe for another week.
I can’t decide which shoes to wear to­morrow. But I can tell you they will not be Uggs.
I can’t decide if whale sharks are real animals or if someone just made them up as a joke.
I can’t decide if the new Taco Bell in LaFortune is the best or worst thing to ever happen to this campus.
I can’t decide if there’s something un­natural about Notre Dame squirrels or if they are just really cute.
I can’t decide if I should get off the couch and find my laptop charger or race the re­maining battery life. Yes, I am that lazy.
I can’t decide if I should go to the din­ing hall at 6:30 p.m. and brave the crowds or go to Reckers and be underwhelmed by the menu.
I can’t decide if I should go to Feve to­night or go to sleep before 3 a.m. in the morning.
I can’t decide if I should drink coffee or diet Coke for my next caffeine boost. I can’t decide if I should sleep through my first class tomorrow or sleep during my first class tomorrow.
I can’t decide if I’m jealous of everyone who’s getting ring-by-Thanksgiving-ed or if I would rather wait until someone finan­cially-secure enough gives me a rock the size of my fingernail.
I can’t decide if our football team is actually any good or if arranging my Christmas schedule around a Jan. 7 game is just wishful thinking. Knock on wood.
I can’t decide if I should finish this col­umn or delete it all and start over. Again.

EDITORIAL CARTOON


Follow us on Twitter.
@ObserverViewpnt



QUOTE OF THE DAY
“I believe in Christianity as I believe that the sun has risen: not only because I see it, but because by it I see everything else.”

C.S. Lewis
British author

Contact Suzanna Pratt at      
spratt2@nd.edu
	The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Submit a Letter to the Editor | Email obsviewpoint@gmail.com

Submit a Letter to the Editor | Email obsviewpoint@gmail.com

Submit a Letter to the Editor | Email obsviewpoint@gmail.com

Submit a Letter to the Editor | Email obsviewpoint@gmail.com

Submit a Letter to the Editor | Email obsviewpoint@gmail.com

Submit a Letter to the Editor | Email obsviewpoint@gmail.com

9

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Response to affirmative action debate

It has come to my attention that my article on affirmative action that The Observer published Monday has cre­ated a huge controversy. Many people have told me that they were offended, upset and even enraged by my ar­ticle. This was not my intention. I merely wanted to start a conversation about an issue that was in the news by putting forth my own opinion and then inviting others to do so as well. I apologize for being too insensitive, too vague and too general with my arguments in a way that led many people to feel as though I were dis­paraging minority students both at this university and elsewhere. 
I had no intention of suggesting that anyone at Notre Dame does not belong here. I have no data on Notre Dame’s admissions that would sug­gest that Notre Dame is accepting minority students who are less qualified than the other applicants it admits. Every student of every race I have met in my more than three years here has been a credit to this institution, and I fully believe we all deserve to be here. In my article, I said other studies had shown other universities had policies similar to Duke’s, but I did not explicitly state Notre Dame was not part of this group. I apologize for this oversight. 
I do not believe that SAT scores are the only, or even the most important, criteria in university admissions. Notre Dame has deservingly admit­ted students with SAT scores below the middle 50th percentile because we are more than our test scores. The Duke data I referenced compared students across every category their admissions office used to evaluate applicants, from essays to letters of recommendation. I cited the SAT in my article because I thought it would be a familiar, quantitative measure of student preparedness.
I do not believe that all minority students, even those at a school like Duke that may significantly relax its admissions standards for certain ap­plicants, are less prepared than the other students at their schools. 
I am sure there are many fully qualified minority students at Duke who got in on their own merits alone and who are succeeding in the hard­est disciplines. I only meant to illus­trate how affirmative action policies negatively affect these excellent students. 
By lowering the bar for certain members of a particular group, some universities risk cultivating prejudice by allowing others to falsely assume that all members of the group were admitted by easier criteria.
I did not wish to dehumanize the people about whom I was writing by using the term “URM.” Rather, I wished to avoid making the races that are most commonly considered “under-represented” feel targeted. I realize this has had the opposite ef­fect, and I apologize for this mistake. 
I do not claim to understand all of the challenges that minority students face, and I should not have specu­lated about how these challenges might make them feel or how they might respond to such challenges. It was not my place. I merely wished to describe one academic problem that students could face as a result of a policy like Duke’s. I also think that to increase academic achievement for all students, we must do a better job of ensuring that those who grow up in difficult circumstances of any kind have a safe, nurturing, and en­lightening educational environment from an early age. 
Elliott Pearce can be reached at epearce1@nd.edu
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer.

Eliott Pearce
The Human Interest

Don’t forget the ‘PWMs’

Dear Mr. Pearce,
I read your article “URM Debate” (Oct. 28), and I thought your goal of helping “URMs” (under-represented minorities) to “achieve their full hu­man potential” was commendable. However, in your altruistic fervor, I believe you have neglected to con­sider another minority group which you and I both occupy: privileged white males (PWMs, if you will).
Your argument makes perfect sense. As you noted, URM students can sometimes seem humiliated and frustrated. Previously I had attrib­uted this to things like institutional discrimination, marginalizing terms such as “URM” and obnoxious class­mates who hold prejudiced and pa­ternalistic opinions about issues like affirmative action. But after reading your article it became clear to me that it was because URMs simply are “less qualified” and “don’t belong,” and furthermore that their racial communities are “characterized by mediocrity.” Ouch! I would be hu­miliated, too.
You have also opened my eyes to the true motivation of universities in this system. Observing the lack of incentives to do otherwise, I previ­ously had thought that universities (especially private ones) admitted URMs solely because of their abili­ties to enrich both the academic and social communities on campus. I thought that universities had val­ued the diverse experiences and perspectives of URMs as essential contributions to an atmosphere of inquiry, learning and growth. 
Additionally, I thought universities valued the strong-willed character necessary to overcome institutional prejudice and daily microaggres­sions (written or otherwise) as an indicator of an ability to persist and succeed after graduation, ultimately bolstering the reputation of their alma mater. But I have now seen the light. As you pointed out, universi­ties have in fact been driven by the same altruism which motivated your article, wanting to “[show] [URMs] that they are as good as anyone else.”
Although URMs have neither ex­pressed complaints about the cur­rent system nor asked for assistance, the urge to help them is understand­able. As PWMs, we have an uncanny ability to know what’s best for oth­ers even when they don’t and to express these convictions without the pesky intrusion of empathy and self-consciousness. 
But let us not be so selfless as to forget ourselves and our PWM broth­ers. When PWMs leave college, we inevitably are confronted with more “artificial diversity,” which we are unable to escape even in the highest ranks of society.
It’s like a conspiracy. If only your letter could be read and appreci­ated by groups such as the Nobel committee and the 2008 American electorate, then maybe the world could begin to shake the nasty habit of “accepting URM applicants with weaker records.”
Until then, the reality remains that PWMs like you and I will be forced to live and work in a society rife with such “artificial diversity.” And how would we learn to behave in such a society without the pres­ence of URMs on campus? Without URMs around to help us, we might continue to cling to bigoted opinions which offend our URM peers (like those underlying your article), mak­ing it difficult to function in society after graduation. 
Your article and its subsequent backlash are an example of the learning experiences that you and I benefit from by having URMs on campus, so that we may learn not repeat those mistakes at work or in other important scenarios in the future. So I’m glad you’re getting it out of your system now. But — from one PWM to another — don’t forget the PWMs!
Alex Andre can be reached at 
aandre@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Alex Andre
Guest Column

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Questionable costume choice

Dear student with the very inappropriate costume,
I think you know who you are. You dressed as a very convincing male private part. I was wearing a bright red jacket and khaki cargo pants. I walked by you on Eddy Street by Legends, and I made sure to shake my head. I heard your two (male) friends giggling when they saw my reaction.
I want to let you know that your costume was obscene and offensive. Not just to me, but to anyone with whom you interacted wearing that thing.
Is that the way you want people in South Bend to understand Notre Dame students? Is that the way you want other students to see you? How can you expect to hold a serious conversation with anyone who met you or saw you? If a company finds a picture of you, how can you expect to be hired?
This University needs men who have a sense of what is good and what is beautiful. We clearly do not have that when men dress the way you did.
								    Kevin McShane 
senior
off campus
Nov. 1

10

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM



By LIZZY SCHROFF
Scene Writer
I believe that the greatest musical gems are found precisely when you are not look­ing for them. Whether we’re browsing the Internet, flipping through boxes of old vi­nyl or ambling down less-traveled roads with the radio blaring, unexpected pieces of harmony weave their way into our lives. At that particular moment we may not rec­ognize their beauty, but a few more listens or random stumbling-upons cement these songs, albums and artists into our musical histories.
One such gem that will forever hold a place in my mind is Anaïs Mitchell. I re­member exactly what I was doing the first time I heard one of her songs. It was Easter break of my junior year. I had opted to stay on campus but was feeling rather bored and lonely after the first day. On a whim, I decid­ed to see “Big Miracle” at Cinemark Movies 6 in Mishawaka because I’m a college stu­dent and I don’t want to pay eight bucks to see a movie. I was tuned in to 91.1 The Globe radio (Goshen College’s radio station, which is fantastic, by the way) and Mitchell’s song “Venus” came on. I was taken with the de­lightful folkiness, from the serenading ac­cordion to the rhythmic guitars, and the expressive, girlish intonation of Mitchell’s voice. I jotted down some lyrics so I could revisit the song back at my room.
For some reason or another, I had diffi­culty finding the song. Google left me cold. A few months later, I was able to locate it and fell in love with her latest album “Young Man In America.” However, I’m not writ­ing this article to talk about “Young Man in America.” I’m here to tell you about her pre­vious album. An album that despite its be­ing listed DIRECTLY BELOW “Young Man” on Spotify, I didn’t listen to it until I had non­chalantly let “Young Man” play through into the album. That album is her 2010 release “Hadestown.”
From the first song, I knew “Hadestown” was something special. The album is a folk opera based on the ancient Greek myth of Eurydice. The cast of characters is portrayed in song by a powerhouse bunch of guest art­ists — Anaïs Mitchell as Eurydice, Justin Vernon of Bon Iver as Orpheus, Ani Difranco as Persephone, Greg Brown as Hades, Ben Knox Miller of The Low Anthem as Hermes and Petra, Rachel, and Tanya Haden as the Fates. The setting is a poverty-stricken America which has Eurydice (newly wed to Orpheus), apprehensive about an unstable future. She is enticed by Hades to join him in the Underworld where no one goes hun­gry and life is fine. With the encouragement of the Fates, Eurydice accepts Hades’ of­fer and joins him, but soon comes to regret leaving Orpheus. Orpheus, with directions provided by Hermes, travels to the under­world to bring back Eurydice. He laments his wife’s disappearance so poignantly that Persephone, Queen of the Underworld, con­vinces Hades to let Eurydice return with Orpheus. Hades agrees on one condition — Orpheus must walk ahead of Eurydice and not turn back to look at her until they have both walked out of the underworld. However, Orpheus’ doubt gets the better of him and he looks back, causing Eurydice to return back to the underworld forever.
Each artist brilliantly animates his or her character, absorbing the listener into the unfolding drama. Justin Vernon’s ethereal, pining vocals bring to life the devotion of Orpheus to Eurydice and the sorrow felt in her parting. Ben Knox Miller’s raspy, soulful voice evokes an obliging, vagabond Hermes. Greg Brown’s deep bass vocals make for an eerie, powerful Hades. Ani Difranco (a huge influence for Mitchell) portrays a captivat­ing Persephone who, though loyal to Hades, also has a soft spot for the fated lovers. The Haden sisters’ seamless, beautiful har­monies as the Fates are effectively woven throughout the story. And Anaïs Mitchell’s unique, girlish voice epitomizes the naïve, innocent Eurydice who caves to the pangs of hunger and poverty.
The score, arranged by Michael Chorney, features an orchestra of folk instruments ranging from acoustic guitar and fiddle to harmonica and trombone for a touch of New Orleans jazz flair. The songs include upbeat, toe-tapping numbers such as “Way Down Hadestown” (I dare you to sit still for this one) and “When the Chips Are Down,” more traditional folk tunes like “Wedding Song” and “Why We Build the Wall,” and bal­ladic melodies such as “Flowers (Eurydice’s Song)” and “How Long.” Anaïs Mitchell’s narrative lyrics beautifully convey the struggles of the characters — very human struggles with the temptation of guaranteed security and luxury over a life of poverty with one’s true love. The listener feels the joys and sorrows of Eurydice and Orpheus from their blissful beginning to their tragic eternal separation.
“Hadestown” is a musical treasure not to be missed. If you are a fan of folk music, vibrant narrative, or musical theater, than I highly recommend giving this album a listening. Even if it’s just for the sake of try­ing out something new, I think any listener can find something to enjoy on this record. Pop the record in on a long drive or during a needed study break, but make sure to listen all the way through. You’ll soon find your­self getting lost in the tragedy of Eurydice on her journey to Hadestown, as Anaïs Mitchell saunters into your musical history.
Contact Lizzy Schroff at
eschro01@saintmarys.edu

By SAM STRYKER
Assistant Managing Editor
For those students who were lucky enough to study abroad, I’m sure you have your handful of songs that re­mind you of your time away from campus.
For me, “Titanium” reminds me of a weekend visit to London and “Moves Like Jagger” will always be associated with my semester in Rome. Usually the songs you associate with study abroad are fast-paced dance tracks you would hear during a night out on the town.
With “18 Months,” Scottish DJ Calvin Harris’s third studio album, I feel as if I am listening to an entire album of study abroad anthems. “18 Months” is 15 songs worth of dance-ready tracks, some you probably have heard before and some you may not have.
For those who have not been in­doctrinated into the world of electro house music, Harris is the producer of Rihanna’s international mega-smash “We Found Love” and has found suc­cess on his own with such singles as “You Used to Hold Me” and “Acceptable in the 80s.”
“18 Months” is actually nearly that long in the making. The first single, “Bounce,” was released in June 2011 and more singles have been released sporadically leading up to the album’s release earlier in the week.
Even though nearly every track makes you want to get up and run a marathon or bust some serious moves on the dance floor, listening to “18 Months” doesn’t feel repetitive. The standout cuts each have their own sig­nature feel, be it a different featured artist or creative beat. Harris is one of the leading minds in his craft, and it shows here.
“Bounce” featuring Kelis is a bounc­ing, club-ready track that proves the singer can do more than use her milk­shakes to bring all the boys to the yard. The song has a serious beat drop of epic proportions and is one of the best-produced tracks on the album.
“Feel So Close” is an interesting track. It features a slow piano key and Harris’s soulful vocals, but also a steady beat in the background. 
In this way, it feels as if the song al­most slows down and connects more with the listener while also being wor­thy of being played during a night on the town.
Likewise, “Sweet Nothing” features the poignant vocals of Florence Welch from Florence + The Machine. Once again, there is a backing track of epic proportions to match Welch. This is more than just a song to run or dance to. Just like “Feel So Close,” there is raw emotion in Welch’s vocals that drives deep within the listener and grips his or her heart. “Sweet Nothing” is the type of track on “18 Months” that doesn’t just show off Harris’s skill set, but sets him apart as an industry leader.
“Thinking About You” featuring Ayah Marar has not been released as a single, but don’t let that distract you — this is a silky-smooth track with a sick beat. Listening to the song, one can imagine being transported to a club in London or Barcelona to dance the night away.
“Let’s Go” features crooner Ne-Yo, and it’s about as good of a pump-up jam as you are every going to have the pleasure of listening to. While it lacks the emotional power of “Sweet Nothing,” Ne-Yo sings with a sense of urgency that makes the listener’s heart race. This is the type of track you close a marathon out with. “Let’s Go” doesn’t let you quit.
People listen to different music for different reasons. Sometimes you need a song to calm you down after a long day at work. Maybe you need a mellow jam for when you are hang­ing with friends. Or maybe you want a head-banger for when you are driving cross-country.
Regardless, I always find it amus­ing when people criticize electropop DJs for not producing “real” music or “lesser” music. Just because I am not going to find Avicii or Justice on “MTV Unplugged” anytime soon, it does not mean they are lesser artists — it just means you listen to their music with a different purpose.
In that vein, Calvin Harris’s latest release “18 Months” is about as good of an album as you are going to get for two things — dance tracks and some solid workout music. What sets Harris apart is his tracks more than just mo­tivate listeners to get off the couch — often their very real emotion resonates deeply.
Contact Sam Stryker at
sstryke1@nd.edu

“18 Months”
Calvin Harris
Label: Columbia Records
Tracks: “Bounce,” “Feel So Close,” “Thinking About You”
If you like: Avicii, Justice



“Hadestown”
Anaïs Mitchell
Label: Righteous Babe
Tracks: “Way Down Hadestown,” “When the Chips are Down,” “Wedding Song”
If you like: Victoria Williams, Bob Dylan



SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer

11

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM



By COURTNEY COX
Associate Scene Editor
The Notre Dame Chorale per­forms its Fall Concert today in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC). 
This year’s performance will include selections from Monteverdi, Bach, Mozart, Schumann, Wagner, DeBussy and Stravinsky. Lovers of classi­cal music will surely be enchant­ed by the performance and find their taste for good old-fashioned entertainment all but satisfied. 
The selections are broken up into six sections: Works from the Middle Ages and late Renaissance, late romanti­cism, 20th-century romanti­cism, concerted church music for Salzburg, 20th-century Mass and finally 18th-century a ca­pella motet. 
The weekend also serves as a reunion of sorts for Chorale alumni. The Chorale, who usual­ly performs Handel’s “Messiah” every year in early December, will stage a joint performance of excerpts from the oratorio with both current members of the Chorale as well as alums.
They will also be treated to an organ demonstration in the Reyes Chorale and Organ Hall. The $1 million organ took organ­ist Paul Fritts over a year to build. After it was built, the organ was disassembled and reconstructed over a full year in the Organ Hall.
Judy Fritts, Paul’s sister, de­signed the intricate carvings on the organ itself and features mostly flowers, animals and oth­er elements of nature. 
The reunion is also an oppor­tunity for past Chorale members to share stories of their experi­ence in the concert choir when they were undergraduates. 
Following the Fall Concert the Chorale will begin preparing for their annual performance of “Messiah” and their winter tour. 
The winter tour traditionally takes the Chorale through vari­ous US cities where they perform in parishes. 
This year they’re taking the tour to the “Great White North” and visiting Toronto, Montreal and Ottawa in addition to other northeastern American cities. 
Before they hit the road, check out the Chorale on their home turf this weekend in their Fall Concert. The concert is tonight at 8 p.m. in DPAC and student tickets are $3.
Contact Courtney Cox
ccox3@nd.edu

By KEVIN NOONAN
Scene Editor
This weekend’s “The Man with the Iron Fists” has been seen heavy build up in the media, selling it as “Brought to You by Quentin Tarantino.” But while the film is indeed produced by Tarantino, and he did have a hand in the creative process, this movie comes straight from the mind of the leader of the Wu Tang Clan, RZA. RZA, long re­spected as one of the greatest hip-hop producers and artists of his time, wrote and directed this martial-arts film, and while it might seem odd to see a rapper behind the camera of a major motion pic­ture, it is not the first time a musician has sat in the director’s chair.
Frank Sinatra
“None But the Brave” (1965)
Sinatra, the sultan of swoon himself, directed and starred in this portrayal of World War II. The film is narrated by a Japanese officer through a journal he is writing for his wife as his platoon is stuck on a Pacific Island and cut off from the rest of the world.
After an American plane crashed onto the same island, the tensions between the two factions grow to a boiling point before they reach a peaceful coexistence. When the Americans establish radio communications, however, a platoon of American sol­diers shows up to the island with orders to attack, resulting in massive casualties.
Due to its heavy-handed anti-war themes and generally being a really bad movie, critics generally panned the film.
Barbara Streisand
“The Prince of Tides” (1991)
Streisand actually has directed three films. One — “The Mirror Has Two Faces” — was really just terrible, and another was “The Prince of Tides,” starring Streisand and Nick Nolte.This romantic-drama traces the love connection of Streisand, a psychia­trist, and Nolte, the twin brother of one of Streisand’s clients. After Nolte’s twin sister attempts suicide for a second time, his mother implores him to aid Streisand help the girl. Both Streisand and Nolte are in failing marriages and their love is forbidden and blah blah blah. Critics loved it, and it was nominated for seven Academy Awards including Best Picture (which it lost to the slightly darker “The Silence of the Lambs”). And it made $110,000,000 at the box office, which is pretty above average too.
Rob Zombie
“Halloween” (2007)
Rob Zombie is one of the truly straight up and down weird guys in the music indus­try, so it’s not that much of a surprise that his film career includes at least one movie where the main character is a mass murderer.
This remake of the 1978 horror film follows Michael Myers as he wreaks havoc on his hometown with a knife and general murdering and stuff. Critics generally didn’t care for the film, but it did make $80,000,000 at the box office, which apparently was good enough to let Zombie make a sequel in 2009. 
Kanye West
“Cruel Summer” (2012)
This is kind of a cop out, because it’s not a real “movie” per se, but West’s short film might be the most critically acclaimed film by any musician of all. The 35-min­ute short debuted at the Cannes Film Festival and was shown out of competition. The film, which finds inspiration in Arabian lore, was widely praised by critics as be­ing revolutionary and visionary in its direction. West displayed the film not on one screen, like most traditional movies, but instead on seven different screens — three in the front of the room, one on the floor, one on the ceiling and one on each side of the audience.
RZA
“The Man with the Iron Fists” (2012)
The Wu Tang rapper directs this martial-arts action comedy and co-wrote it with writer/director/producer/actor Eli Roth. RZA stars as The Blacksmith, who must cre­ate intricate and unique deadly weapons in order to protect his small village in 19th-century China. A number of assassins and warriors come into play as well, including Russell Crowe as an opium-addicted killer and Lucy Liu as a powerful brothel owner.
The film features music from a number of popular artists, including Kanye West, Wiz Khalifa, My Chemical Romance and The Black Keys, and a number of concerts were held to help promote the movie.
Contact Kevin Noonan at
knoonan2@nd.edu






SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer

12

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

CLASSIFIEDS

SPORTS AUTHORITY

FENCING

Squad travels for tourney

Redmond good enough for Marlins


Enough with the big splashes, bigger headlines and biggest disasters. Enough with the small attendance, smaller batting aver­age and smallest patience.
With a hush-hush hire of for­mer catcher Mike Redmond as their manager, the Marlins said enough is enough.
They said goodbye to a failed attempt to make baseball as big as the NBA in a front-runner town. They waved the circus that was Ozzie Guillen goodbye and replaced him with the in­experienced clubhouse favorite Redmond.
Whether Redmond will turn out to be a good manager is one thing. He spent the last two sea­sons managing Toronto’s Class A minor league teams and his interview with the Marlins was his first Major League coaching opportunity.
But he is a catcher — and that counts for something. With the addition of Redmond, 13 of the 28 current MLB managers are former catchers, includ­ing Cardinals manager Mike Matheny. Matheny took St. Louis to the league championship se­ries in just his first season at the helm.
Former catcher and current Yankees manager Joe Girardi has found success filling out his lineup card, with a World Series championship to speak for him. Plus he has won a Manager of the Year award with … the Marlins. Yes, the Marlins.
When Girardi managed the Marlins, he led a squad with the lowest payroll in baseball ($14 million) into wild card conten­tion, compiling a 78-84. But still, the Manager of the Year could not keep his job. Why? Mr. Art Collector Jeffrey Loria.
During a game in 2006, Loria — who sat behind the plate by the Marlins dugout at home games — was heckling an um­pire. Girardi had to tell Loria to calm down and barely kept his job after the game. At the end of the season, Girardi was gone and three years later, he lifted the World Series trophy with the Yankees.
If you thought Girardi was the only former Marlins manager to have success elsewhere, think again. After three-and-a-half seasons with Florida, Loria let go of Fredi Gonzalez. Gonzalez im­mediately landed a job the next season with the Atlanta Braves, replacing legendary coach Bobby Cox.
He has guided the Braves to second place finishes in each of the last two years, including a playoff berth this past season.
Yet still, neither Gonzalez or Girardi was good enough for Loria.
We all thought it was a match made in heaven with Ozzie Guillen last year. Guillen was an outspoken, outrageous, Hispanic manager with a ring. He fit with the Marlins. He fit with Miami — until you support Fidel Castro, of course.
A dream season with shiny new players and a shiny new stadium was supposed to end with a shiny new ring. But instead, the Marlins could not snap out of their neither nightmare hitting woes nor their nightmare managerial situation.
So now Loria has decided on Redmond.
Unknowns abound with this hire. How long will he be around? Who will he get to manage before they get traded away? Will he be good in the majors?
But for now, all of that is fine. They have someone who knows the organization and won the franchise’s last title. He is second in franchise history in games played by a catcher.
He may not be right but he’s good enough for a franchise that should be trying to steer clear of the national headlines.
They know now the waters can be rocky.

     Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Matthew DeFranks
Associate Sports Editor


STEPHANIE LEUNG | The Observer
Irish freshman Lee Kiefer, left, faces an opponent at the Notre Dame Invitational on Oct. 27. The Irish will look to continue their success at the 41st Penn State Open this weekend. 

By JOE WIRTH
Sports Writer
After a solid performance at last weekend’s Notre Dame Invitational, the Irish will be participating in their second exhibition tournament of the year this weekend as they will join nine other schools in the 41st Penn State Open.
Senior foil Grant Hodges said the Irish made a state­ment with their performance against Ohio State last week­end, and, despite a slightly different format, he expects them to continue their good performances this weekend.
“The team did a great job establishing itself as a legitimate threat for the National Championship last weekend at the Notre Dame Invitational,” Hodges said. “The Penn State Open is more of an individual tournament, but we still expect to compete and win at every level, across all squads.”
The win against Ohio State marked the first win recorded at the new Castellan Family Fencing Center. The Irish men defeated the Buckeyes 60-37 and won six of the last seven bouts. The women won 60-51.
Some of last week’s winners included senior Gerek Meinhardt, freshman John Hallsten and sopho­more Madison Zeiss.
Meinhardt, along with oth­er Olympians throughout the University, will be honored at halftime of this weekend’s football game, so he will not be competing this weekend.
With schools like Yale, Princeton and Cornell in the competition, this weekend’s field is loaded. Senior Joe Piasio said he relishes tour­naments like this because it provides the Irish a chance to compete against some of the best programs in the country. 
“Because this is a pre­season event, the expecta­tions are not set as high for this event, however, there are still expectations to perform admirably,” Piasio said. “This event allows us to measure ourselves against the com­petition, as well as deter­mine where each fencer can improve.
“It also allows the coaches to better see the potential ability in the lineups and start to chisel out roster spec­ifications. Even though some may argue the competition doesn’t matter, this is errone­ous. We expect the best per­formance against this elite competition, but there isn’t a whole lot of pressure on the fencers.”
After several successful seasons and a national cham­pionship in 2011, Piasio said one of the main goals early in the season is ingratiating the freshmen into that winning culture and helping them ad­just to collegiate fencing. 
“I think that the big­gest thing to endow on the younger and new fencers is the unique sense of fam­ily and togetherness we hold here,” Piasio said. “Two years ago during the champion­ship year, I was no means a superstar or a blue chip on the team, but the older guys and gals really made me feel involved and driven for the goal.
“They really brought every­one in and made sure they knew they were important to winning. I believe that this sense of togetherness is truly necessary in order to win an­other championship.”
The tournament will take place Saturday and Sunday at Penn State’s White Building. Action is slated to start at 8 a.m. both days. 
Contact Joe Wirth at 
jwirth@nd.edu

  With a hush-hush hire of former catcher Mike Redmond as their manager, the Marlins said enough is enough.

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.

FOR RENT
Rent Knute Rockne’s home for football weekends. Perfect location - 1 block from Eddy St. Commons. Sleeps 8-10. Contact 574-876-4324
WANTED
Wanted Filemaker 12 database ex­pert. Need assistance for the design of a database for a local ND alum business. Will probably entail 5 to 10 hours at $50/hr. Must be expert with Filemaker Version 12. Call 574-210-8612 and leave contact information and brief resume re:Filemaker experience.



Help needed at Curves-South, A Women’s Fitness Center. No expe­rience needed. Afternoon/Evening Hours. Call Deb at 574-299-9822
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-appt earnparttime.com
PERSONAL


UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many re­sources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu

Follow us on Twitter.
@ObserverSports



13

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

Siegfried is carrying the mo­mentum of a three-game win­ning streak into the playoffs but will have to get through a tough Kangaroo defense led by Patin. However, Burgraff said he believes the Ramblers are up to the challenge.
“[David Whitmore] is one of the top players in the league,” Burggraf said. “We’re going to take what the defense gives us. We know we can run the ball.”
The Ramblers defense will be similarly challenged by Keough’s versatile offense, led by freshman quarterback Nick Nissen and junior running back Mike Fischer.
“We have the athletes, we just need to execute,” Patin said. “Consistency is our focus.”
One possible factor in Sunday’s matchup is the po­tentially cold and rainy weath­er. However, Burggraf said the Ramblers will not completely alter their play-calling if the conditions are poor.
“The worse the weather, the better chance we run the ball, but that doesn’t mean we will be afraid to air it out,” Burggraf said.
Siegfried and Keough clash Sunday at Riehle Fields at Stepan at 1 p.m.
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu
Knott vs. Fisher
By KIT LOUGHRAN
Sports Writer
The race for the champion­ship kicks off Sunday as No. 3 Knott takes on No. 6 Fisher in the first round of the playoffs. 
The Juggerknotts (3-1) se­cured a playoff berth with their 13-7 victory over Duncan on Sunday, and the Green Wave (3-1) dominated Carroll with a 27-6 win the same day, which placed them second in the Gold Division. 
According to Fisher senior captain and offensive lineman Matt Hart and Knott senior captain and running back Joe Beglane, both teams are ready to begin their playoff pushes.
“We’ve been running the ball really well all season,” Beglane said. “We’ve also implemented a solid pass­ing game within our running offense.” 
Beglane said Knott will also look to its stout defense, which allowed just 20 total points in the regular season. 
Hart said the Green Wave will need their defense to lead the team while ensuring that the offense steps up as well.  
“We want to make sure our defense plays well,” Hart said. “Our power running game will be sure to carry over into this game, and we will keep our opponent honest with our passing game.” 
Hart said the Fisher offense emanates from junior quarter­back Joe Paggi, whose passing and running abilities propel the Green Wave’s attack. 
Though Fisher did not make it to the playoffs last year, the team is approaching its play­off appearance with confi­dence and readiness to win, Hart said. 
Knott, meanwhile, hopes to atone for its first-round play­off loss last year with a win this time around, Beglane said. 
The Juggerknotts and Green Wave will battle at 2:15 p.m. at Riehle Fields at Stepan on Sunday.
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu

Siegfried
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 15

meet in a battle of the de­fenses Sunday at 5 p.m. at LaBar Fields.
Contact Sarah Connors at 
sconnor1@nd.edu
Walsh vs. Welsh Family
By GREG HADLEY
Sports Writer
For No. 4 Walsh and No. 5 Welsh Family, who will meet in quarterfi­nal clash Sunday, play­offs are an eagerly awaited chance for redemption.
In last year’s playoffs, Welsh Family (4-2) fell to Pasquerilla West in over­time. Welsh Family senior captain and quarterback Victoria Moreno said she believes the Whirlwinds have made the neces­sary adjustments to make a deep postseason run. 
“We’re a different team from previous years,” Moreno said. “We used to be a very offense ori­ented team, but, this year, our defense has improved, so we’re very balanced.”
Moreno said the key to the matchup would be how well the Whirlwinds are able to control the line of scrimmage on both offense and defense.
“Their quarterback is really good, so we need to get lots of pressure on her and force her to make mistakes,” Moreno said. “Offensively, we’re going to need time so our receiv­ers can get downfield. We’re primarily a passing team.”
Moreno said the Whirlwinds would rely on senior Grace Corrigan and sopho­more Katie O’Brien to an­chor the offensive line.
Walsh (4-2) has had to wait a little longer to return to the postseason. Its last appear­ance came in 2009, when it lost in the semifinals. Senior captain Lindy Navarre said the team is excited to be in the playoffs, but the Wild Women remain focused on advancing.
“We’re excited to be back, of course,” Navarre said. “But everyone, from the fresh­men to the older girls, is re­ally focused. We have the discipline to keep going.”
To advance, the Wild Women will need their defense, an­chored by the leadership of senior safety Lauren Dunn, to be as stout as it has been all season. On the other side of the ball, Navarre said the offense wants to keep up its steady improvement.
“Our defense has been re­ally consistent, and we’ve improved so much from the be­ginning of the year on offense, we’re just really pumped to get out and play,” Navarre said.
The Wild Women are a young squad, and Navarre said it has been exciting to see how young­er players, such as sophomore receiver Kathleen Hough and sophomore cornerback Molly Johnson, have stepped up each week to help the team.
“Week by week, we’ve been working on team unity,” Navarre said. “We’re all ready for this.”
Walsh and Welsh Family will play Sunday at 4 p.m. at LaBar Fields.
Contact Greg Hadley at 
ghadley@nd.edu


JOHN NING | The Observer
Whirlwind and Shamrock players meet in the open field during Welsh Family’s 20-14 victory over McGlinn on Oct. 1.

Badin
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 14

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


PAID ADVERTISEMENT


14

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

WOMEN’S INTERHALL

Wildcats face top-seeded Purple Weasels

Chaos and Phoxes battle for second-round berth; Badin faces defending champion McGlinn

By ALEX WILCOX
Sports Writer
On paper, Sunday’s meet­ing between No. 1 Pasquerilla West and No. 8 Ryan appears to be a mismatch. The Purple Weasels (6-0) come into the playoffs with an undefeated record, while the Wildcats (4-2) squeaked into the playoffs as the final seed. Despite this, a game resembling a David vs. Goliath matchup may look more like a heavyweight fight.
“We know we’ve got a good squad, but we want to make sure we go into the playoffs playing our best,” Pasquerilla West senior captain Meghan Schmitt said. “We’re just going to take it game by game.”
Ryan has been in the same position as Pasquerilla West, since the Wildcats were the top seed in the playoffs last year. The Wildcats were upset in the first round last season, but senior captain Maya Pillai said they will use that experi­ence to their advantage.
“Last year, we went into the playoffs as the highest seed and lost in the first round, so anything can happen,” Pillai said. “This year we’re playing the top seed, so [there’s] no pressure on us at all.”
While Ryan may have felt the pressure last year, Pasquerilla West seems unfazed by it.
“We don’t really feel the pressure,” Schmitt said. “We’re just going to do our own thing and focus on us. We just need to play our game.”
Pasquerilla West’s strategy is to rely on its playmakers on of­fense and a staunch defensive line on defense. The Purple Weasels’ offense includes du­al-threat sophomore quarter­back Lauren Vidal and senior receivers Kirsten Danna and Katherine Bass, while Schmitt leads the team on defense.
On the other side of the field, Pillai said she believes her team can utilize its offen­sive weapons, namely junior receiver Maddie Swan, senior receiver Kelly O’Brien and ju­nior running back Leah Fisher.
“Offensively, we want to put together some long drives that will get us some points on the board,” Pillai said. “Defensively, we’ve got to con­tain their speed and limit big plays.”
Pillai said she knows the task will be tough for her team but is confident the Wildcats can pull off the upset.
“We have a lot of talent and experience on our team, and we will play hard the entire game,” Pillai said. “We don’t really view ourselves as under­dogs because we know what we are capable of.”
Ryan looks to knock off top-seeded Pasquerilla West on Sunday at 4 p.m. at LaBar Fields.
Contact Alex Wilcox at 
awilcox1@nd.edu

Cavanaugh vs. Pangborn
By ALEX STEMBAUGH
Sports Writer 
No. 3 Cavanaugh and No. 6 Pangborn are set to square off this Sunday in first-round playoff action. A loss means an early exit for either team, both of which have their sights set on the championship game.
Cavanaugh (5-1) hopes to make a championship run and avenge its loss to McGlinn in last year’s championship game. 
“We’re looking to make a run this year but also realize that we have a lot of work left to get there,” senior center Kelly Brakora said. 
The key to a win for the Chaos may lie in staunch de­fensive pressure.
“Our defense has always been really solid, aside from one little blip against [Pasquerilla West],” Brakora said. “We just need to main­tain that.” 
The Chaos will look for ef­ficient ball movement from senior quarterback Rosemary Kelly, who is a first-year starter at the position.
“We are just really looking forward to getting out there to play and putting up some points,” Brakora said. 
Pangborn (4-2), meanwhile, is excited to take on the reign­ing runner-ups. 
“We’re very eager to go out and play again,” senior receiver Meredith Angell said. Coming off a 20-12 loss to Lewis, the Phoxes look to bounce back in winning fashion. “Our last game didn’t end how we want­ed,” Angell said. “We hope to fix those little mistakes and get back to playing games how we played in the beginning and middle of the season.” 
Angell said avoiding penal­ties and an emphasis on detail are necessary for a Pangborn victory. The Phoxes will also look for strong leadership from their quarterback, sophomore Caitlin Gargan, to open up their passing game.
“[Gargan] is key for us,” Angell said. “We’re looking for her to come out strong and make some big plays to our re­ceivers. We’re ready and raring to go, and hopefully we can make a great playoff run.”
Cavanaugh and Pangborn will kick off the first round of the playoffs Sunday at 5 p.m. at LaBar Fields.
Contact Alex  Stembaugh at 
astembau@nd.edu
McGlinn vs. Badin
By SARAH CONNORS
Sports Writer 
No. 2 McGlinn and No. 7 Badin will face off Sunday in the first round of interhall playoff action. 
Defending champion McGlinn (5-1) makes its fourth consecutive playoff appear­ance, while Badin (2-4) ap­pears in the playoffs for the first time in three years. 
Despite making the playoffs, Badin had its share of strug­gles throughout the season. Senior captain Tommasina Domel said most of Bullfrogs’ problems result from Badin’s small size.
“It is really hard to put to­gether a game plan when you don’t know which girls you are going to have,” Domel said.
The inconsistency of the ros­ter coupled with various player injuries has made it tough for the Bullfrogs, but the team’s defense has help carried it through rough patches.
“Our defense is made up of a lot of veterans who know what they are doing, and can usually handle anything that any offense throws at them,” Domel said.
On the other hand, McGlinn comes into the game riding a three-game winning streak. The Shamrocks’ strongest as­set this season has also been their defense. 
“Our defense suffocates our opponents and we had two shut outs this season,” McGlinn senior captain Emily Golden said. “Even in our loss to Pangborn, our defense kept it to a one possession game for almost the entire game.”
Golden said the Shamrocks will use an aggressive defen­sive game plan to try and limit the Bullfrogs.
“[Badin] has a couple of re­ally dynamic players who are capable of huge gains, so as long as we are in position and get flag pulls we should be able to keep the big plays to a mini­mum” she said.
Both teams will look to­ward veterans and new players alike to step up and have huge games.
McGlinn and Badin will 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer
A Purple Weasel receiver catches pass during Pasquerilla West’s 14-0 victory against Breen-Phillips on Oct. 9. 

see BADIN PAGE 13

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


15

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

MEN’S INTERHALL

Keenan and Alumni to square off in first round

Otters and Big Red to meet in rematch of last year’s championship; Siegfried faces Keough 

By SAMANTHA ZUBA
Sports Writer
Leadership and teamwork have no column on the stat sheet, but No. 7 Alumni and No. 2 Keenan will put these qualities on display when they face off in the quarterfinals of the playoffs Sunday.
Alumni junior captain Tom O’Sullivan attributed the Dawgs’ regular season suc­cess to leadership from up­perclassman and dominant defensive performances.
“We have a lot of leadership that has played interhall for three or four years, like junior quarterback Will Cronin,” O’Sullivan said. “Our defense has played well all year. We like to shut teams down. If we give [up] no points, we can’t lose.”
Alumni (3-1) played the regular season in a divi­sion typified by its defenses and strong play at the line of scrimmage. O’Sullivan said while Keenan’s dynamic of­fense could present a chal­lenge, Alumni is ready.
“Their division is much more offensive-minded ver­sus ours which is based on defense,” O’Sullivan said. “It should be a good clash of their powerful offense and our powerful defense, and hope­fully the defense prevails.”
Alumni’s defense will have to shut down Keenan’s slew of talented receivers: junior Jeremy Riche and seniors Alex Green, Trevor Yerrick and Nate Carr. Keenan senior cap­tain and quarterback Andrew McDonough said the Knights (3-0-1) will rely on their same regular season strategy that featured these players.
“We’re going to stick to the same game plan we had all season: Get the ball to our play-making wide receiv­ers, control the line of scrim­mage,” McDonough said. “If we do that, I’m optimistic about our chances.”
McDonough was quick to add, however, the Knights are by no means one-dimen­sional. Keenan’s emphasis on working as a team helped it overcome challenges this sea­son, McDonough said.
“When you look at our foot­ball team, what sticks out is the unity of our team,” McDonough said. “We’ve faced some adversity with some guys getting injured. We haven’t played with a full roster since the first game of the season, but our motto has always been next man up. We’ve had young guys step­ping up into key roles. I’m re­ally excited.”
Keenan and Alumni clash in the quarterfinals Sunday at 2:15 p.m. at Riehle Fields at Stepan.
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu
Sorin vs. Dillon
By MARY GREEN
Sports Writer
No. 1 Sorin aims to extend its undefeated season in the opening round of the playoffs Sunday, but it first must defeat a familiar foe.
The Otters (4-0) and No. 8 Dillon have met in the past two championship games, with the Big Red (2-2) taking the 2011 title. This year, however, the two squads will square off in the quarterfinals.
For the Otters, the 2010 champions, the feeling they are the team to beat is noth­ing new or unexpected, se­nior captain, linebacker and running back Ryan Robinson said.
“We feel like we’ve had a target on our back the past two seasons, so it’s something that we’re used to by now,” Robinson said.
Despite its perfect record, Sorin’s trip to the postseason did not come easily. In a mid­season matchup with Carroll on Sept. 30, senior quarter­back Ted Spinelli suffered a concussion and missed the following two games. 
The Otters caught a stroke of luck when both Fisher and St. Edward’s forfeited those contests, but Robinson said his squad does not plan on losing momentum against the Big Red.
Robinson said Sorin will need a strong effort on both sides of the ball to defeat Dillon.
“Dillon’s a very good team, and we know them well,” Robinson said. “They have a good running game, and they spread the field and pass well, so we need to be solid on de­fense. Offensively, we need to stick to the basics of running well and then take what their defense gives to us.”
With the uncertainty of South Bend weather in November, the team with the better ground game could very well be the winner, Dillon ju­nior captain and quarterback Kevin Fink said.
“We know the weather could be an issue, so we’ll probably run the ball and Sorin will too, so we’re going to focus on stopping their running game,” Fink said.
Anchored by sophomore safety Colin Terndrup in the secondary, the Big Red de­fense has impressed Fink throughout the season. The captain said he will look to a physical defense to keep the Otters off the scoreboard.
“We just want to come out and match their physicality,” Fink said.
Dillon and Sorin face off Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle Fields at Stepan.
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu.
Siegfried vs. Keough
By CASEY KARNES
Sports Writer
In the first round of the play­offs, No. 4 Keough hopes to continue its historically good season against traditional powerhouse No. 5 Siegfried on Sunday.
The Kangaroos (3-0-1) are in the midst of their best campaign in recent mem­ory. Keough’s undefeated regular season has given the Kangaroos hope they can reach their ultimate goal: a trip to Notre Dame Stadium.
“The whole team is look­ing forward to the Stadium,” Keough freshman safety Mitch Patin said. “The whole hall has really rallied around our team. … Everyone is ex­cited about our success this year.”
Siegfried (3-1), on the other hand, is hoping to replicate the success of prior years with a familiar formula: practice.
“It’s win or go home, so we had to have a good week of practice,” sophomore quarter­back Nate Burggraf said. “We have the talent, we just need to make sure everyone is on the same page.”
The Ramblers have relied heavily on senior captain and running back David Whitmore for offense, but they also have not been afraid to air it out with Burggraf. 


STEPHANIE LEUNG | The Observer
A hoarde of Knights tackle a Griffin during Keenan’s 14-0 victory over Stanford on Oct. 7 at Stepan Fields.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


PAID ADVERTISEMENT


see SIEGFRIED PAGE 13

16

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER

Notre Dame returns home

Squad compete for Big East title

By KATIE HEIT
Sports Writer
After a close loss to Auburn on Saturday, the Irish return home to take on Purdue in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
In the meet against Auburn, both teams won eight individ­ual races, but Auburn managed to put enough people in the 2-5 spots to grab the lead. This week against Purdue, the Irish hope to fill those spots and claim the victory. 
“We are definitely going to use the momentum we built up from some of the stand-out per­formances at Auburn going into the rest of our meet season,” se­nior Kim Holden said. “We know to keep training hard and to use each meet as an opportunity to learn about what we’re do­ing well and what needs work. Our meet this week against Purdue should be fun and very competitive.”
The Boilermakers are coming off a victory in a five-team meet last weekend at the Indiana Intercollegiate. With the Irish and the Boilermakers both ranked, 18th and 19th respec­tively, the meet between the two schools should prove to be high­ly competitive.
Holden said a person to watch for in the meet is sophomore Bridget Casey.
“Bridget Casey never ceases to amaze me with how she handles her race,” Holden said. “She usually has a very difficult line up, but races tough every time she steps up on the block.”
Against Auburn, Casey claimed two second place finishes in the 1,000-yard freestyle and 200-yard butterfly, as well as a third place fin­ish in the 500-freestyle.  
Personally, Holden said she is sat­isfied with the individual victories she claimed against Purdue, she is still striving for faster times.
“I feel like I’m in a good place at this point in the season, but I will def­initely be looking to see faster times as we move forward,” Holden said.
Notre Dame will face the Purdue beginning Friday at 5  p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at 
kheit@nd.edu


PAID ADVERTISEMENT


SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer
Irish freshman midfielder Cari Roccaro passes the ball during Notre Dame’s 2-2 draw with Rutgers on Oct. 7 at Alumni Stadium.

Observer Staff Report

   After a full season of trying to help his young team mature and perform on a championship level, Irish coach Randy Waldrum and No. 20 Notre Dame have finally arrived on that stage, as they’ll look to take home the Big East Championship in East Hartford, Conn., this weekend.
The Irish (13-4-2, 8-1-1 Big East) certainly didn’t look like a favor­ite to win the conference back in August and September, when they struggled to a 3-3-1 start in their first seven games. After that stretch though the young team began to grow up, which was helped by regaining the likes of junior midfielder Mandy Laddish and freshman midfielder Cari Roccaro from national team duty. Since then, the Irish haven’t looked back, and have posted a 10-1-1 record, with their latest victory coming over Syracuse in the Big East quarterfinals last weekend.
In that game, it was Roccaro’s late winner – off a pass from Laddish – that sent the Irish through to their 16th conference semifinal in their 18 years as mem­bers of the Big East. That era will soon come to a close though, as Notre Dame will join the Atlantic Coast Conference. With that in mind, Waldrum and the Irish have put the emphasis on closing out their stay in the Big East in style, namely with a championship tro­phy this weekend.
Their first obstacle on that path will be No. 10 Marquette, whom the Irish will face on Friday. The Golden Eagles (14-2-2, 9-0-1) have rolled through the Big East thus far, with all nine of their confer­ence wins coming by at least two goals — a trend they continued in a 4-1 thrashing of Connecticut in the quarterfinals last weekend.
Both teams have had to deal with more than just their com­petition in their preparation for the game this week, as Hurricane Sandy has wreaked havoc on the East Coast. Both Notre Dame and Marquette had to work around flight delays and cancellations, and the storm forced the tourna­ment to make a last-minute move from UConn’s campus in Storrs to the Huskies’ football stadium in East Hartford.
Whoever can survive the semi­final will move on to face the win­ner of the other semifinal, which pits South Florida against No. 13 Georgetown.
The Irish and Golden Eagles will fight for that spot on Friday at Rentschler Field in East Hartford, where the game will  begin at noon.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


MEN’S SWIMMING

Irish host first meet of season

Observer Staff Report
Notre Dame will hold its first dual meet of the season when they welcome No. 18 Purdue to the Rolfs Aquatic Center today.
On Oct. 26, the Irish (2-0) opened up their dual meet schedule with a 191-107 win over Oakland. Junior All-American Frank Dyer led the Irish to a win in 200-yard medley relay while also claiming victories in the 50- and 200-yard freestyle events.
A day later, Notre Dame de­feated Michigan State 178-120. Sophomore Cameron Miller won the 100- and 200-yard breaststroke races, while sopho­more diver Nick Nemetz turned in a personal best in the 3-meter dive.
The Boilermakers (1-0) domi­nated Miami (Ohio) last week­end on their way to a 192-103 win over the RedHawks. Purdue won all 16 events at the meet, led by junior Danny Tucker’s three first-place finishes.
The dual meet is the first of three straight home matches for the Irish before they travel to the Hawkeye Invitational in Iowa City, Iowa on Nov. 30.
The meet with Purdue starts at 5 p.m. today.

17

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

Loyd
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20

ball, she tried to get to the bas­ket, she offensive rebounded.”
Having a third offensive threat, in addition to Diggins and McBride, makes the Irish much more difficult to match up against.
“We expect Jewell to be able to contribute on the offensive end,” McGraw said. “I think, defensively, people are going to have to figure out who they’re going to guard.”
Junior forward Natalie Achonwa will get many of the starts at forward as well this sea­son. She did not play Thursday night due to an injury, but she’s expected back to practice Monday and will be day-to-day after that.
Wright had a solid game with nine points, seven rebounds and four assists. Junior forward Ariel Braker also played 16 min­utes and scored six points with five boards. But McGraw would have liked to see more of an em­phasis on those two players.
“I think we could have gone into the post a little bit more,” McGraw said. “I think we need to work on our high-low game. We didn’t execute that at all today.”
Cable did not play at all last year, but she started and was the “surprise” player of the game according to McGraw.
“She’s really come along and did some really good things today,” McGraw said. “So I think she’s some we’ll be able to count on both ends of the floor.”
Notre Dame’s first regular season game is slated for Nov. 9 against Ohio State on the U.S.S. Yorktown, an aircraft carrier, in Charleston, S.C. The game will be aired on the NBC Sports Network at 4 p.m.
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu


VOLLEYBALL

Teams to test Irish win streak


LILY KANG | The Observer
Senior guard Skylar Diggins, right, tries to ward off Scots defenders
during Notre Dame’s 88-28 exhibition win over Edinboro.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


LILY KANG | The Observer
Junior setter Maggie Brindock, left, returns the ball during Notre Dame’s 3-1 home win over St. John’s on Oct. 7.

By JOE WIRTH
Sports Writer
The Irish will put their eight-match winning streak on the line this weekend as they travel to the Garden State for matches against Seton Hall and Rutgers.
Notre Dame (17-6, 10-1 Big East) is coming off of a home-weekend sweep of Pittsburgh and South Florida, which moved them into a tie for first place in the Big East. Despite this posi­tion, Irish coach Debbie Brown does not think the top ranking adds any pressure to her play­ers, nor does she think it gives any added motivation to their opponents.
“I think teams are always mo­tivated to play us,” Brown said. “We generally have a pretty big target on our back and we know teams will bring their best when they play us.”
The games against the Scarlet Knights (17-9, 3-8) and Pirates (17-7, 5-6) represent the second-to-last weekend for Big East play and a regular season conference championship is not far-fetched for the Irish. 
Brown said her players are aware of their success, but she wants them to stay focused on the task at hand.
“[Winning a conference championship] has been one of our major goals since the beginning of the season to win the regular season cham­pionship for the conference,” Brown said. “We have played steady throughout the month of October and we continue to just take it one match at a time. To look beyond that at this time would be a mistake we just want to take the challenge that each team brings.”
Seton Hall and Rutgers enter this weekend’s play in sixth and 11th respectively in the Big East, but despite their low rankings, each team will give the Irish a fight. 
The Scarlet Knights boast one of the best freshmen in the Big East in middle blocker Sarah Schmid. She leads the team in kills with 332 and has a 3.25 kills per set ratio. Senior middle blocker Alex Jones is another standout for Rutgers. She is sec­ond on the team with 275 total kills and has a 2.70 kills per set ratio.
A twin sister duo has led the Pirates and caused havoc in the Big East all year. Sophomores Stacey Manthorpe and Shelbey Manthorpe are first and second on the team in kills. Stacey leads the team with 277 and Shelbey is second with 201.
“Seton Hall and Rutgers are both fighting to qualify for the Big East tournament, where the top eight in the standings go,” Brown said. “They are both bal­anced teams with good young talent.  We know we will see good volleyball from both teams.”
In addition to taking on the Rutgers and Seton Hall on the volleyball court this weekend, the Irish will also have to con­tend with Mother Nature as both schools are rebounding from Hurricane Sandy’s path of destruction in New Jersey.
“Another huge challenge for us is the travel and accommoda­tions for the weekend,” Brown said.  “As of now, we still don’t have hotel accommodations be­cause of the storm. Our original hotel is underwater and without electricity and we haven’t been able to find other availability within one-and-a-half hours of the campuses.”
As of Friday evening, the games are set to be played ac­cording to schedule. The Irish will take on the Pirates on Saturday at 2 p.m. and will then travel to Piscataway, N.J., to take on the Scarlet Knights on Sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Joe Wirth at  
jwirth@nd.edu

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


18

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

Orange
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20


against a Syracuse team under the direction of coach Ian McIntyre, who was hired in 2010.
Clark said this creates unfamiliarity similar to facing a non-conference opponent. In fact, he said, the Irish are more famil­iar with many of their out of conference competitors because Notre Dame plays them regularly.
“[Syracuse doesn’t] know us; we don’t know them,” Clark said. “It’s almost like a non-conference game. In fact, most of our non-con­ference games we actually play on a yearly basis, home and away.”
As the Irish begin the conference tournament, Clark said he does not think there will be any increased intensity from the Irish be­cause they’ve displayed a tight focus all year.
“I think this team has been very focused, right from the very start,” Clark said. “It’s been a very fo­cused group and I think [we’ve had] good leadership from the senior class and from the captains. So I don’t think I look for any changes. We don’t change the way we approach things. I think it will be pretty much the way we approach every game.”
Freshman midfield­er Jordan Vale leads the Orange in scoring with eight goals. Syracuse lost its last game 1-0 to St. John’s, which marked the first time the Orange allowed a goal in four games.
“There’s absolutely no ques­tion that they’re an excellent team,” Clark said. “I think we know that they’re a very good team and looking at the game tape and talking to people, I think we know this is going to be a hard game.”
Notre Dame, currently ranked No. 1 in the country in RPI, is one of four Big East teams in the top eight of the RPI in the nation. Despite the top RPI ranking and a top-10 ranking in the polls, the Irish only finished third in their di­vision, meaning they have to travel for their Big East quar­terfinal game.
“Any game in the Big East is a hard game, but when you actually go on the road to play a Big East game, it’s a very hard game,” Clark said. “It is a really tough conference. In yesterday’s RPI’s, we were No. 1 in the country. You’re No. 1 in the country, yet you’ve got to go away in your tournament to play in the quarterfinals. It just shows the strength of the Big East. 
“So we know it’s going to be a very tough game, but hope­fully it will be a good opportu­nity for the team just to learn a few things and see if we can make it to Red Bull Arena for the Final Four.”
Clark also noted there is a slight chance the game could be pushed back a day due to the effects of Hurricane Sandy, but said that was unlikely.
The Irish and Orange are set to match up in the Big East tournament quarterfinals on Saturday at 7 p.m. in Syracuse, N.Y.
Contact Sam Gans at 
sgans@nd.edu

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer
Junior guard Jerian Grant dunks the ball during Notre Dame’s 111-52 exhibition win over Quincy on Monday.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


Turnovers
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20

is going to be transition defense especially when we’re playing big,” Brey said. “Can we get back and stop some speed? [Friday] night, Cardinal Stritch has some guys that can run and get down the floor fast.”
Brey said he will again dole out the majority of the minutes to the top six players in the rota­tion — graduate student forward Scott Martin, senior forward Jack Cooley, sophomore for­ward Pat Connaughton, junior guards Jerian Grant and Eric Atkins and senior center Garrick Sherman — while also working in freshman forward Cameron Biedscheid, senior forward Tom Knight and freshman forward Zach Auguste, who missed Monday’s game due to an injury.
“We want to get a feel for the key guys playing together for long stretches,” Brey said.
In addition to establishing continuity with his established rotation, Brey said he will also use the final exhibition to fig­ure out the roles of Auguste and Knight. Auguste, a 6-foot-10, 230-pound rookie from Marlborough, Mass., was rated by ESPN as a three-star recruit and the 25th best power forward prospect in the class of 2012. The left-handed Knight appeared in 30 games for the Irish a year ago and averaged nearly nine min­utes per game.
“I think you’re still evaluating Zach Auguste and Tom Knight,” Brey said. “You can’t play both of those big guys. Which guy is it going to be? And maybe it’s going to be both of them at dif­ferent times throughout the season, but who’s going to be the first guy to get the bite start­ing next Saturday [in the season opener].”
Notre Dame and Cardinal Stritch tip off Friday at 8 p.m. at Purcell Pavilion.
Contact Mike Monaco at 
jmonaco@nd.edu

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


Tynan
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20

to be one of college hockey’s most dynamic combinations the past two years, but Jackson has had the two juniors center­ing their own lines early in the season.
“When everyone’s scoring for us, Anders and Tynan don’t feel like they have to score every game for us to win,” Summerhays said. 
While Jackson noted the improved scoring depth has helped the team in the early go­ing, he said Lee and Tynan are still two key cogs in the offense as evidenced by their combined eleven points on the year.
“They probably feel less pres­sure because other guys are producing,” Jackson said. “But the pressure to be a productive player isn’t any less. They want the puck on their stick, and they want to score.”
While this is the last year for the Irish in the CCHA, the matchup with Western Michigan isn’t going anywhere any time soon. The Broncos will participate in Notre Dame’s tournament next year and a home-and-home series is planned beginning in 2014, en­suring the rivalry will continue even as the Irish transition to Hockey East next year.
“That happens a lot when you play another good team a lot, and over the last few years it’s developed into a bit of a grudge match,” Lee said. “This team is one of the hardest working teams in our conference, and we have to be ready to match that.”
Tonight’s game starts at 7 p.m. at the Compton Family Ice Arena. Sunday’s game begins at 5 p.m.
Contact Conor Kelly at 
ckelly17@nd.edu

19

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

DAILY

CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Penn Badgley, 26; Toni Collette, 40; Jenny Mc­Carthy, 40; Lyle Lovett, 55.
Happy Birthday: You should make essential changes personally, financially and emotionally. A residential move or changing your living arrangements to better suit your needs will pay off. Use your experience to help you gain access into positions, groups or partnerships that have as much to offer you in return. Update your image and prepare to engage in new pastimes. Your numbers are 3, 15, 19, 23, 27, 31, 48.
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Partnerships will prove to be entertaining, informative and will allow you to develop your ideas to the max and to build a solid base for your future explorations. You should embrace change in both your business and personal lives.  




TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep your money and belongings in a safe place. Unnec­essary purchases or letting someone guilt you into spending or donating will lead to added stress. Plan your actions carefully and don’t stray far from your path. 



GEMINI (May 21-June 20):  Put more time and effort into your relationships with people you work with as well as those you live and deal with personally. Emotions will surface if you exaggerate, overreact or overindulge. Love is highlighted, but you must be willing to compromise. 



CANCER (June 21-July 22): Letting others know what you are up to will lead to inter­ference that you must avoid. A change at home may distract you from what you are supposed to be doing. Rely on someone you trust to finish what you start. 



LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Offer your assistance and you will receive rewards for your efforts. A friend or lover from your past is worth contacting. Looking back can help resolve issues you face now. Don’t limit what you can do. Stubbornness will not pay off. 




VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Use charm, diplomacy and your imagination in order to get the results you need to move forward. You can win, but it will only happen if you are compassionate, understanding and willing to compromise. Find a way to please everyone without arguing. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Interact with others and you will learn from your encoun­ters. Build relationships that will be useful to you in the future. A creative approach to the way you do business or what you do for a living will help you get ahead. 





SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):Make your home your sanctuary. A creative project will encourage you to follow a dream. Promises will be broken and tempers hot if you don’t have your facts and figures straight right from the beginning. 



SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Partnerships are highlighted and must be nurtured and tended to with compassion and the intent to make alterations that will help enhance future dealings. Don’t let insecurities lead to mistakes, arguments or deceit. 



CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Do your best to make an impression. Someone you’ve dealt with in the past will make a proposal that will interest you. Before mov­ing ahead, check the information you’ve been given. Travel will lead to unexpected setbacks or trouble. 



AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Strategize carefully and you’ll make the right choice. Don’t let anyone lead you astray with promises that have little substance. Focus on home, family and the people you love. A financial deal or personal investment will prove to be prosperous.  






PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Don’t let your emotions interfere with money matters. You must take care of business before you take on personal issues that develop between you and a friend, neighbor or colleague. Discipline will be required to avoid loss. 


Birthday Baby: You are clever, charming and unpredictable. You are popular, enter­taining and demonstrative.


JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK

SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER




LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |  LENNY RAGO &        					          PATRICK CROSS


WORK AREA

Make checks payable to and mail to:	The Observer
	P.O. Box 779
	Notre Dame, IN 46556

  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year

  Enclosed is $75 for one semester

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.

Name
Address 
City  						State  		Zip

20

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

MEN’S BASKETBALL

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | NOTRE DAME 88, EDINBORO 28

Squad readies for final exhibition

Irish overrun Scots


By MIKE MONACO
Sports Writer
After a dominant perfor­mance in the season-opening exhibition against Quincy on Monday, the No. 22 Irish take on Cardinal Stritch on Friday in the final regular-season tune-up.
Notre Dame trounced the Division II Hawks 111-52 and will square off with another opponent from outside the Division I ranks when it battles the NAIA Wolves to close out the preseason. The Irish will then commence the regular season against Evansville on Nov. 10.
“I think it’s good to get in and put the uniform on again on Friday night and play,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “We need to keep evaluating ourselves against somebody else. Our vet­erans and captains have done a good job of setting the tone with our team and I’ve liked our con­sistent work ethic.”
With the regular season rap­idly approaching, Brey said he is pleased with the prog­ress the team has made so far, especially when it comes to ball movement.
“I just like how we share the ball and how we pass the ball,” Brey said. “We’re so unselfish. That’s a great trait to have be­fore you get into the next five months.”
The Irish downed Quincy on Monday with an offensive effort replete with skilled passing. The Irish had 30 assists on 43 made field goals and six players scored in double figures to lead the offensive onslaught.
“Any time you can get 30 as­sists — I don’t care who you’re playing — I’m thrilled and we only turned it over seven times,” Brey said. “That’s been our M.O. here: offensive efficiency. So we must continue to do that.”
At the other end, the Irish de­fense forced 20 turnovers and held the Hawks to 32.7 percent shooting from the floor. Brey said the Irish will need to get back in transition against an up-tempo Cardinal Stretch squad.
“I think for us the challenge 

LILY KANG | The Observer
Freshman guard Jewell Loyd, left, goes up for a shot as senior guard Skylar Diggins looks on. Notre Dame defeated Edinboro 88-28 in an exhibition game at the Purcell Pavilion on Thursday.

By MATTHEW ROBISON
Sports Writer
In a battle of the North Atlantic, the Fighting Irish de­feated the Fighting Scots 88-28 in Notre Dame’s first and only exhibition game of the season Thursday in Purcell Pavilion. Freshman guard Jewell Loyd led all scorers with 20 points in her Notre Dame debut.
Despite the impressive show­ing against their Division II opponent, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she saw areas for improvement.
“I thought we’d be better in defense and rebounding,” McGraw said. “Offensively, I thought we’d be able to score and I think we were right about that.”
A new season brings an overhauled Irish team to the court. The departure of Brittany Mallory, Devereaux Peters and Natalie Novosel left a void in the starting lineup. Loyd stepped in and filled the hole left by Novosel. Sophomore guard Madison Cable played in Mallory’s stead and sopho­more forward Markisha Wright played down low in the four-guard offense.
What was a senior-heavy squad last season is now a talented young team led by Diggins. She and guard Kaila Turner are the only two se­niors. Fittingly, Diggins scored the first six points for the Irish on two layups and a pair of free throws, and Notre Dame jumped out to an early 12-2 lead.
“There was a lot of excitement and a lot of nerves,” Diggins said. “We wanted to come out and have a great start in the first game.”
But Loyd stole the show.
The Irish led 43-13 at the half, and Loyd led all scorers with 16 in the first period.
In her first game in an Irish uniform, Loyd scored in a va­riety of ways. She slashed to basket on backdoor cuts, she knocked down the mid-range jumper and she got to the char­ity stripe, hitting all eight of her free-throw attempts.
McGraw lauded Loyd for her versatility.
“One of her jobs is to get to the free-throw line, and she was eight-for-eight tonight,” McGraw said. “She drove the 

see TRURNOVERS PAGE 18

MEN’S SOCCER

Team heads to Big East tournament

see LOYD PAGE 17

By SAM GANS
Sports Writer
The No. 7 Irish will hit the road for their Big East tour­nament opener when they travel to Syracuse to face the Orange in the conference quarterfinals Saturday.
Though Syracuse (12-5-0, 5-3-0 Big East) is a conference foe, it is an inter-divisional opponent, and Notre Dame (13-3-1, 5-2-1) has not faced the Orange since a 3-0 Irish win in 2008. As a result, none of the current Irish have played against Syracuse, and Irish coach Bobby Clark has not led a Notre Dame squad 

HOCKEY


Broncos to visit CFIA

By CONOR KELLY
Sports Writer
While Western Michigan may not carry the cachet that some of a Michigan or Ohio State, the No. 11 Broncos have become a worthy and admired opponent of the No. 8 Irish over the last few seasons.
That rivalry will continue tonight when the Broncos visit the Compton Family Ice Arena for a CCHA matchup. The game will mark the third CCHA contest for the Irish (5-1, 2-0-0-0 CCHA) and the first for the Broncos (3-1, 0-0-0-0).
“Because of the level at which they’ve played over the last few years and their loca­tion, I think it becomes a bit of a natural rivalry,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “It’s not so much chippy as intense. They play an up-tempo style and we try to as well. There’s bound to be some collisions.”
Irish junior goaltender Steven Summerhays said he agreed with Jackson and echoed his sentiment that the Irish have prepared for a physi­cal and gritty opponent.
“Every time we play them, they are very physical games,” Summerhays said. “They have developed into a very good team that is well coached over the last few years. I think both teams have a lot of skilled and hard working players, so it makes for an exciting game for the fans and for us.”
Summerhays, recently named the CCHA Gongshow Goaltender of the Week, ac­knowledged the difficulty of preparing for a team that likes to get a lot of bodies to the net for second-chance opportuni­ties, something the Broncos have excelled at in recent years.
“It makes it tough because that’s not something that you want to simulate in prac­tice, guys driving the net hard and crashing into you,” Summerhays said. “If you have the whole defensive corps playing well, as we have, and blocking shots in front of you and you just have to worry about making the first save, it makes it easier.”
On offense, the Irish have gotten early contributions up and down the lineup from all four lines, a positive re­turn on Jackson’s decision to move junior captain Anders Lee to center and split up the Minnesota native and former running mate junior center TJ Tynan. The pair proved 

SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer
Senior midfielder Kyle Richard, right, races for the ball during Notre Dame’s 3-1 come-from-behind home win over Akron.

see ORANGE PAGE 18

see TYNAN PAGE 18



