

COMMENTARY 

offensive output must improve 


Chris Allen 
sports editor 
The Irish fan base is smiling, and with good reason. 
notre dame will take the field saturday night outlined against a blue-gray october sky in chicago with a 4-0 record, a top-10 rank­ing and the third-best scoring defense in the nation. After dis­posing of longtime foe denard robinson — and with multiple teams on the Irish schedule suf­fering from injuries and early-season losses — notre dame fans are thinking ahead, calculating win totals in the double-digits and looking up plane tickets to bcs bowls. 
The reality is simple, however: If the Irish offense cannot rev into gear and figure out a formula to put up points, this team may miss out on a golden chance. 
There are no shortage of su­perlatives to describe what bob diaco and the notre dame de­fense have been this year, and there is little reason to expect that stephon Tuitt, manti Te’o and the rest of the unit will level off anytime soon. but a dominant defense can only take a team so far — the game is won by put­ting points on the scoreboard. Until everett Golson, or Tommy rees for that matter, can do that on a consistent basis, there is no game in which notre dame is not at least somewhat vulnerable, and that begins this week with miami. 
If you need an example, look no further than two weeks ago un­der the lights against michigan. The Irish intercepted five straight michigan passes, forced a robinson fumble, and did not allow a touchdown for the sec­ond straight game, yet they still needed a late third-down con­version to ice away the victory. The 13-6 victory was a blowout disguised as a one-score game, and the stagnant Irish offense was the only culprit. Were it not for michigan’s ill-advised run­ning back pass that resulted in a nicky baratti interception in the end zone, or denard robinson’s lack of ball security on a crucial fumble, the game could have been very different. 
The burden to take this notre dame team to the next level falls on the offense’s shoulders. Preseason predictions are largely a fool’s exercise, but the consen­sus of what was written about notre dame’s offense has proven to be true. The Irish are still strug­gling to replace michael Floyd at wide receiver, and the lack of a marquee option at wideout has bottled up tight end Tyler eifert. eifert has been battling through double-teams and defenses designed to stop him, and has recorded one catch in the past two games. matched up against a spotty miami secondary, the receivers finally have a chance to break out. The emergence of davaris daniels or T.J. Jones could take pressure off eifert, opening the All-American up down the field and vitally trans­forming the offense. of course, another down week at the posi­tion will have everyone asking the same questions next week. 
The quarterback position is yet another area where there have been more questions than answers. For weeks, Irish coach brian Kelly has been emphati­cally declaring his support of everett Golson as the Irish starter. however, if wins were assigned in football the same way they were in baseball, both Golson and Tommy rees would be 2-0. It is still unclear who ‘the guy’ is under center, or if the Irish even have one. 
It’s tough to imagine notre dame in a bcs bowl unless these questions get answered. opponents of this view will point to Alabama as a team that’s won two bcs titles recently without a dominant quarterback, but the crimson Tide’s signal-callers made plays when they needed to on those title runs, and also had a stable of elite All-American run­ning backs to balance the attack. Golson has no such luxury. he must get better, and the offense must get better around him. 
Irish fans are right to see the opportunity that lies ahead in the weakening 2012 schedule, but if notre dame is to realize the opportunity, they must get offensive. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


RECRUITING 


Son of MLB outfielder adds to Irish class at wideout 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
Less than 24 hours after its sept. 22 win over michigan, notre dame added yet another famous name to its list of 2013 commitments. esPn 150 wide receiver Torii hunter Jr., son of current Los Angeles Angels outfielder and former mLb All-star Torii hunter, became the fourth wide receiver to com­mit to the 2013 Irish recruiting class. 
hunter, the no. 8-ranked wide receiver in the coun­try according to esPn, chose notre dame after receiving of­fers from marquee programs Alabama, oklahoma and West virginia, among others. Irish recruiting analyst mike Frank said hunter Jr. is a player who surprises many despite his small 6-foot, 172-pound frame. 
“I love Torii hunter as a pros­pect,” said Frank, who runs the esPn-affiliated Irish sports daily. “he’s one of those guys where you look at his size and he’s not [6-foot-3], and you look at his frame and see he’s not 210 pounds, and you look at his speed and he’s not run­ning a 4.3 40-yard time, but this kid just makes a ton of plays. Absolutely a ton of plays. 
“he’s just got the ability to get behind defenders and make plays, and he’s got enough speed to stretch the field and get deep at this next level. I’m excited about his potential. he’s a big, big plus to the already im­pressive wide receiver class.” 
hunter Jr., whose father is a four-time mLb All-star and a nine-time Gold Glove win­ner spanning a career with the minnesota Twins and the Angels, has also expressed intent to play baseball at the collegiate level. Frank said the desire to be a dual-sport athlete played a big part in the recruit­ment of hunter Jr. 
“he’s quite the baseball player as well,” Frank said. “but I think he really likes football a lot, and I think football is prob­ably his best sport right now. Football is where he’s getting looks from pretty big programs right now. but he’s pretty good in baseball too, and that’s a big part of it.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com 
Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 

MONTHLY SPECIAL: OUR LIGHTER OPTIONS 
Your choice of Grilled Artichoke, Chicken Salad, Tuna Salad or Grilled Veggie Sub with small Fresh-Cut Fries and a regular Beverage. 
6” - $7.39  8” - $8.59 


Corner of Ironwood & 23 
2202 South Bend Avenue | (574) 855-2432 




ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012 | The observer 


Man in the middle 
Irish nose guard Louis Nix evolves on the field and inspires a movement off it 



By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Associate sports editor 
he’s a man who goes by many names: no. 9, nasty dawg, big Lou. but to more than 4,000 Facebook friends, 179,000 YouTube viewers and 8,000 Twitter follow­ers, junior nose guard Louis nix is known 
by one name and one name only. 
“Irish chocolate … It came from Facebook. I normally chat all my friends on Facebook, and I wanted a nice classic name,” nix said. “A name of greatness, 
better than all the greats. better than the black mamba, better than the bus and the Fridge. I wanted it to be Irish chocolate. my people came up with a nice name, and that’s what I settled with.” 
After the long-winding journey of searching for a nickname, nix said he fi­nally came across something that fit him to the core. 
“since it’s a name, I need something that I am going to live up to. I’m a sweet guy, like I am covered with chocolate,” he said between laughs. “I am just like a hershey’s bar. on the outside it looks 
delicious and really good. but on the inside there is just this splash of ‘Wow!’ And it can hit you in the mouth if you’re not careful about it. Got it?” 
Gaining a following 
The 6-foot-3, 326-pound lineman is as jolly as they come, usually equipped with his trademark smile and never one to pass up a guaranteed-to-make­you-smile wisecrack. nix is a social-media triple threat, maintaining a 
presence on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. but when compared to the best of the best in the social world, nix said he has the upper hand. 
“I don’t think Justin bieber is as handsome as I am. but I could say that I am up there with him,” nix said. “I just need more people to get with the Irish chocolate movement. 
Yeah, it’s a movement. It’s a way of life. 
“some people just can’t experi­ence this chocolate movement. I want everyone to get it, that’s why I put it out. That’s why I am on Twitter, that’s why I talk about it on 
Facebook. because once this Irish chocolate hits you, it makes your life just a little bit better.” 
With his 8,086-and-counting Twitter followers, nix trails only se­nior linebacker manti Te’o’s 33,647 followers for the lead on the Irish defense. but the Jacksonville, Fla., native said his social media blue­
print is hardly in its beginning stages. 
“I just want as many followers as I can. I’m thinking 200,000,” he said. “I like to entertain. I like to make people laugh. I want every­body to get a little laugh here and there. but I can be emotional too. 
That’s just the type of guy I am.” 
nix said the response to his Irish chocolate movement the past two seasons has been so enormous that Facebook banned him from adding friends 
once he crossed the 5,000 threshold, causing him to cut back. The lineman also said he tries to respond to each of his fans’ messages, even the occa­
sional relationship request. “I think [responding to fans] means a lot,” he said. “I get a lot of random responses though. I’ve gotten responses about how Irish chocolate could help rela­tionships, about how I could help people be a better football player, about how to go to notre dame. I get ‘I like you’ responses too, but there are not too many of those left be­cause I have a girlfriend.” 
The Film, Television, and Theatre ma­jor revels in his starring role in a YouTube web-series he calls “chocolate news,” which averages upwards of 20,000 viewers per episode. The series showcases the life of a notre dame football player, from team shopping to notre dame’s trip to Ireland. 
“What’s ‘chocolate news’? It’s just my ev­eryday life, just a behind-the-scenes look at what people don’t see that often,” nix said. “I’m not [a superstar] yet. I’m just a regular guy. but people just want to see me. They want to see the life of a notre dame player. I try to give them my point of view on things, as much as I can. The fact that so many people watch is just so funny to me. I enjoy it a lot.” 
sophomore defensive end stephon Tuitt often plays a role in nix’s documentary-style filming, as nix almost always carries his camcorder with him. 
“‘chocolate news’ is his little thing,” Tuitt said. “Watching it, to me, is funny. he’s a funny guy and an emotional guy, not an or­dinary type of guy, but he’s Louis nix.” 
despite all the attention, nix said his extracurricular activities don’t take away from football or school. rather, they help the junior relax. 
“It never is a distraction because it is just me,” nix said. “All that stuff is just me. I just enjoy it. It will never get in the way of my books or my plays because that is really what helps me stay focused. I need that type of stuff to keep me in order.” 
Trending 

coming out of raines high school in Jacksonville, nix played in the Under Armour All-American Game after an out­standing senior season in which he totaled 50 tackles and 10 sacks. As a four-star re­cruit, he originally committed to miami, his favorite team as a child, before switching to notre dame and Irish coach brian Kelly. 
“Yeah, I sure can [remember my first impression of nix]. It’s probably what your first impressions were,” Kelly said. “This big mammoth of a man who had a kid-like personality. he continues to have that. he’s just added a lot of maturity to that kid-like personality.” 
since coming into his first preseason camp overweight in 2010, nix has learned to mix business with pleasure and became a comedic outlet for the veterans while remaining a steady example for younger players. 
“he just knows when to be serious and when it’s the time to play,” freshman defen­sive end sheldon day said. 
nix credits this gradual transformation for his improved performance in 2012. 
“This year I feel like I am more mature, but I am the same me,” he said. “I feel like I can deal with different situations in a more mature way.” 
despite not seeing any playing time in 2010, nix started 11 games in the 2011 sea­son and recorded 45 tackles, including 4.5 for a loss. Kelly said he too has noticed the improvements in nix’s mentality and ap­proach to the game. 
“he’s just continued to grow as a player,” Kelly said. “he gives us more and more preparation, a more purposeful approach every single day. he’s on the trend, if you will. he’s trending, that’s a Twitter kind of deal, right? Trending. he’s definitely doing all of those things to get better every day.” 
This season, the junior has seen multiple double-teams at the critical nose guard po­sition in defensive coordinator bob diaco’s 3-4 defensive scheme, leading to more op­portunities for his teammates. With nix plugging up the middle, notre dame held potential heisman candidates in michigan state running back Le’veon bell and michigan quarterback denard robinson to 77 and 90 yards rushing, respectively. notre dame remains the only team in the country who has yet to yield a rushing touchdown and is third in the nation in scoring defense, allowing nine points per game. nix and his 16 tackles (three for loss) are a big reason why. 
“I think people are starting to notice me,” nix said. “my name is starting to come up and people know me as a nice guy. If you are a trending topic on Twitter [or] in football, people will start to notice you.” 
The Irish defense hasn’t given up a touch­down in the last two games — both against top-25 teams — and nix said it comes down to dissipating the pressure across the entire defense and simply having fun. 
“I like to talk to the other team, have some conversations,” nix said half-jokingly. “I hug them all of the time. The michigan line­men were really nice. I had a conversation with them the whole game. 
“but [the defensive line] has come togeth­er really close in the last year. We are really loose and enjoy it and just like to have fun. Last year we were maybe being too serious. now we have more fun. We hang out more. It’s just like a family atmosphere.” 
Although he embraces Twitter, nix found himself in a thorny situation last year after tweeting, “hopping on the delta and might never come back” following the departure of former Irish defensive end Aaron Lynch. 
“It wasn’t anything. It was hard times, getting a little homesick,” nix said. “but that’s over. That was last year and now I’m focused. I have everything in order that needs to be in order. I’m on time to gradu­ate. I have almost a 3.0 GPA. I’m just trying to stay focused. Last year there was a lot of stuff going on in my life, but that’s changed now and I just want to keep pushing it.” 
Following football, nix said he has his sights set on the television business as the perfect outlet for his engaging personality. 
“I’m thinking sports broadcasting or something like that,” he said. “maybe I could do ‘Louis.0’ and kick daniel Tosh out of there. or I could be something like [michael strahan]. or maybe kick Jack [nolan] out and get Louis nix in there.” 
Graduate student captain and defensive end Kapron Lewis-moore said nix’s atti­tude refreshes the entire team and keeps things upbeat at all times. 
“You have to have the kid love of the game. he has fun with it,” Lewis-moore said. “everybody knows Louis is a charac­ter. he keeps the game fun, he keeps you laughing and kind of loosens things up.” 
When asked about the one thing he wants the notre dame student body to know about him more than anything, the team funnyman responded in less time than it takes him to fill up on his gameday-stan­dard five bowls of cinnamon Toast crunch. 
“I love my momma,” nix said. “Tell them I love my momma.” 
Welcome to the Irish chocolate show, where characters are always welcome. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 




Observer File Photo Observer File Photo 
HURRICANES PASSING  mike James and freshman running back  
The Irish have seen junior quarterback  and kick returner duke Johnson. In the  
stephen morris before. That time was on a  sun bowl, notre dame held James to only  
cold winter’s day in el Paso, Texas on dec.  14 yards rushing  and receiving. so far this  
31, 2010 and morris was just a freshman  season, James has accumulated 278 yards  
then. morris relieved former starter Jacory  and three touchdowns on 60 carries.  
harris and his three interceptions and  Johnson provides the hurricanes with  
threw for 282 yards with two touchdowns  a big-play threat, averaging 6.9 yards per  
and an interception in the hurricanes 33­ carry with a season-long run of 56 yards.  
17 loss in the sun bowl.  Johnson has 359 yards on 52 carries and  
now, he’ll get a real shot at the Irish  provides a nice change-up to James’ rush- 
fresh off a record-setting performance. In  ing style. The two-time Acc rookie of the  
last week’s 44-37 win over nc state, morris  Week ranks first in the Acc in all-purpose  
set an Acc record with 566 passsing yards  yards with 184 per game and leads the  
and five touchdowns, including 271 pass- hurricanes with seven touchdowns in his  
ing yards in the first quarter alone. The  first season.  
junior already has 1,635 passing yards  notre dame is the only team in the  
and nine touchdowns this season and av- country to have not given up a rushing  
erages 21.77 yards per completion. morris  touchdown on the season. The Irish are  
leads an offense that has recorded over  especially tough in the red zone, only  
400 total yards of offense in the last three  giving up two touchdowns in 10 red zone  
games, including 651 yards against the  trips.  
Wolfpack.  EDGE: NOTRE DAME  
sophomore receiver Phillip dorsett  
poses the biggest threat to the young Irish  HURRICANES OFFENSIVE COACHING  
secondary. dorsett is the only receiver in  defensive coordinator bob diaco has  
the country with at least two games of at  shown week after week that his defense  
least 180 receiving yards and has 16 recep­ will be prepared for anything. The de­ 
tions for 375 yards in the last two games.  fense hasn’t given up a touchdown in its  
Against nc state, the sophomore wideout  last two games, both against top-25 teams  
set a career high with 191 receiving yards  with legitimate heisman candidates.  
and two touchdowns on seven catches.  EDGE: NOTRE DAME  
only three schools average more in­ 
terceptions per game than notre dame,  HURRICANES SPECIAL TEAMS  
which has already equaled its total from  Johnson leads the miami return games,  
all of last year with eight.  and already has a 95-yard kickoff return  
Junior cornerback bennett Jackson and  for a touchdown. but redshirt senior kick- 
senior linebacker manti Te’o each have  er Jake Wieclaw has missed on both of his  
three, good enough for sixth-best in the  field-goal attempts of 40-plus yards and  
nation. Freshman safety elijah shumate  has a season high of 38 yards.  
and sophomore safety matthias Farley  EDGE: EVEN  
continue to impress as they gain more  
reps with the first team. The Irish are also  HURRICANES SCHEDULE  
ninth in the country in sacks with 3.5 per  sept. 1 @ Boston College  W 41-32  
game.  sept. 8   @ Kansas State L 52-13  
but the miami passing attack comes  sept. 15 Bethune-Cookman  W 38-10    
into the shamrock series with a lot of  sept. 22 @ Georgia Tech   W 42-36 (OT)  
momentum and confidence as the main  sept. 29 NC State              W 44-37  
reason behind this three-game winning  oct. 6 Notre Dame  
streak.  oct. 13 North Carolina  
EDGE: MIAMI  oct. 20 Florida State  
nov. 1 Virginia Tech  
HURRICANES RUSHING  nov. 10 @ Virginia  
The hurricanes boast a dual-threat  nov. 17 USF  
rushing attack with senior running back  nov. 24 @ Duke  







HEAD TO 
(So.) Denzel Perryman 

MLB 72 

MIAMI  
(So.) Rashawn Scott (Fr.) herb Waters  80 86  WR  
(R-So.) Malcolm Bunche (r-Fr.) hunter Wells  79 64  LT  
(Sr.) Mike James (Fr.) duke Johnson  5 8  (R-So.) Jonathan Feliciano RB (r-sr.) Jeremy Lewis  70 68  LG  
(Jr.) Stephen Morris (r-so.) ryan Williams  17 11  (R-So.) Shane McDermott QB (r-Jr.) Jared Wheeler  62 75  C  
(Jr.) Maurice Higgins (r-so.) sean harvey  33 43  FB  (Jr.) Brandon Linder (Fr.) daniel Isidora  65 63  RG  
(Fr.) Ereck Flowers (Jr.) seantrel henderson  74 77  RT  
(R-Jr.) Dyron Dye(r-so.) clive Walford  49 46  TE  
(So.) Phillip Dorsett (r-sr.) Kendal Thompkins  4 83  WR  
(So.) Thomas Finnie (Jr.)  Ladarius Gunter  20 37  CB  
(R-Fr.) Eddie Johnson (so.)Thurston Armbrister  44 34  OLB  
(Fr.) Deon Bush (Jr.) Kacy rodgers II  2 22  S  (So.) Anthony Chickillo(Fr.) Jelani hamilton  71 99  DE  
(Sr.) Darius Smith  98  DT  

(Fr.) earl moore 
(Jr.)  Jimmy Gaines 59 
91 DT 
(So.) Olsen Pierre 
(r-Fr.) corey King 67 
30 S 51 DE 

(R-Jr.) A.J. Highsmith (R-Jr.) Shayon Green 
(r-sr.) vaughn Telemaque 7 (so.) Kelvin cain 94 
(Jr.) Tyrone Cornelius 


31 OLB 
(so) Gionni Paul 36 
21 CB
(Sr.) Brandon McGee 
(Fr.) Antonio crawford 39 
40 40

(R-Sr.) Jake Wieclaw (R-Sr.) Jake Wieclaw 
PK
KO 
 (r-Fr.) matt Goudis 18 (r-Fr.) matt Goudis 18 
13 P 4
(Sr.) Dalton Botts (So.) Phillip Dorsett
KR
 (r-sr.) Jake Wieclaw 40 (Fr.) duke Johnson 8 

(So.) Phillip Dorsett 4 PR 61 LS(R-Sr.) Paul Kelly 
(Fr.) duke Johnson 8 

Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
The venue is pretty cool. The uniforms are very much not. The Irish offense is somewhere in between, but no one is sure quite where. If the running backs can get out to a fast start against an athletic but sloppy miami defense, everett Golson will have some breathing room and might just be able to find his stride. If that happens —and with the bye week, it should — notre dame will have a decisive upper hand. 
on the other side of the ball, the Irish defense will have an­other test on its hands, but after it shut down both Le’veon bell and denard robinson, it’s hard to imagine it won’t be another masterful performance from Te’o, nix and co. 
notre dame will pull out a solid victory for a fourth straight shamrock series victory. The helmets might be a disaster, but the results of the series certainly are not. 



Andrew Owens 
Assistant managing editor 
These aren’t your father’s miami hurricanes, but that  hard­ly means the Irish are in for a cakewalk this weekend. 
Largely considered one of the weakest teams on notre dame’s 2012 slate — miami (4-1) was picked fifth in its six-team Acc division in the preseason — the canes are 3-0 in confer­ence play. Their only loss is a 52-13 drubbing at Kansas state in week two. 
even with last year’s flat 31-17 home loss to Usc, brian Kelly is 12-2 as a head coach after a bye week. Whether that impressive mark improves will largely hinge on the right arm of everett Golson. The combination of a bye week and facing miami’s de­fense — the canes have surrendered over 39 points per game against teams that aren’t bethune-cookman — might be just what the sophomore needs to ignite the offense. 



Chris Allen 
sports editor 
After a two-week hiatus, it is finally time to see how notre dame reacts to a top-10 rating. Three straight games against big Ten opponents saw the Irish defense shine, but that sec­tion of the schedule is over. 
If the offensive unit does not figure out a formula to put points on the board, there’s no game in which the Irish are not at least somewhat vulnerable. This week, miami’s speedy offense and a quarterback coming into his own in stephen morris will put the notre dame secondary to the test. I don’t think notre dame can hold the hurricanes to single digits.
 It’ll be up to Golson and the Irish running backs to have at least an average offensive game. If they can, the Irish will win. I see riddick having a big day in a one-score Irish triumph. 

FINAL SCORE: notre dame 30, miami 20 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 26, miami 21 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 24, miami 16 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012 | The observer 





TO HEAD 

NO. 9 NOTRE DAME 

KIRBY McKENNA | The Observer KIRBY McKENNA | The Observer 
IRISHPASSING navy in dublin on sept. 1, sophomore In the 13-6 win over no. 18 michigan running back George Atkinson has seen KeiVarae Russell (Fr.) 
on sept. 22, notre dame accumulated limited action, especially since the re-

CB 43 Josh Atkinson (so.) 
only 239 total yards despite getting six turn of senior running back cierre turnovers from its defense. Against the Wood from a two-game suspension. Wolverines, Irish coach brian Kelly The hurricane defense has forced 12 

Danny Spond (Jr.) 
OLB 
pulled sophomore quarterback everett turnovers this season, with seven of 
30 ben councell (so.) 
Zeke Motta (Sr.) 


29 nicky baratti (Fr.) Golson after an ill-advised throw in the those being fumbles. redshirt fresh-
S
Kapron Lewis-Moore (Gr.) 
endzone that resulted in his second in-man linebacker eddie Johnson leads 
DE 
91 sheldon day (Fr.) 

Dan Fox (Sr.) terception of the night. the hurricanes with three forced fum-

ILB 
59 carlo calabrese (sr.) 
Louis Nix (Jr.) Junior quarterback Tommy rees man-bles and 31 tackles. but the miami de-
NG 
Kona schwenke (Jr.) 

Manti Te’o (Sr.) aged the game efficiently, but struggled fense gave up 287 rushing yards in a 


96 ILB 
59 Jarrett Grace (so.) 
DE 
Stephon Tuitt (So.) to put up points and put michigan away 42-36 overtime win over Georgia Tech 
50 chase hounshell (so.) 
Matthias Farley (So.) early. rees threw for 115 yards on 8-for-on sept. 22 and 224 rushing yards to 
24 chris salvi (sr.) 
S 
11 passing with no touchdowns, but no nc state last week. The hurricane de-
Prince Shembo (Jr.) 
OLB 
11 Ishaq Williams (so.) turnovers either. fense has been prone to give up points In fact, the Irish only have three this year as well, coming into the week passing touchdowns this season, but ranked 100th in the country with 33.4 
CB 
21 Bennett Jackson (Jr.) average 13 yards per catch. sophomore points per game allowed. 
Jalen brown (so.) 
receiver davaris daniels leads notre EDGE: NOTRE DAME dame with 159 receiving yards on nine receptions. senior tight end Tyler IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING eifert came into the year as one of the With the exception of bethune-
T.J.Jones (Jr.) 

10 
top receiving tight ends in the country, cookman, the miami defense has al-
WR 
davaris daniels (so.) 
but only has one catch in his last two lowed at least 32 points in every game 
Robby Toma (Sr.) 

19 davonte’ neal (Fr.) games, which came on a 38-yard recep-this season. but Kelly has yet to prove tion from rees on third-down to seal that his offense can consistently put the victory over michigan. despite re-drives together and put points on the 
RT 

Christian Lombard (Jr.) turning to running back before the sea-board to put teams away. 
WR 
64 Tate nichols (Jr.) 
son started, senior running back Theo EDGE: EVEN 
Theo Riddick (Sr.) 
Mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) 

72 
20 cierre Wood (sr.) riddick leads the Irish with 14 recep­tions, mostly from out of the backfield. IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS 
RB RG 
nick martin (so.) 
Everett Golson (So.) 
Braxston Cave (Gr.) 
C 
57 mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) QB 
11 Tommy rees (Jr.) Against nc state last week, junior sophomore kicker Kyle brindza made quarterback stephen morris’ stel-two more field goals against michigan 
Chris Watt (Sr.) 
65 conor hanratty (so.) 
LG 
lar performance overshadowed a very two weeks ago to put his season total 
LT 

Zack Martin (Sr.) shaky miami secondary that gave up at six. Freshman receiver davonte neal 
78 ronnie stanley (Fr.) 

440 passing yards and four touchdowns has yet to show his explosive ability 
TE 
Tyler Eifert (Sr.) to senior Wolfpack quarterback John on the punt return while Atkinson re­
18 ben Koyack (so.) 
Glennon. Freshman safety deon bush mains a big threat returning kickoffs leads the hurricanes secondary with 18 for notre dame. 

John Goodman (Gr.) solo tackles. EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
WR 
87 daniel smith (Jr.) 
EDGE: EVEN IRISH SCHEDULE 

IRISH RUSHING sept. 1 vs. Navy W 50-10 
The notre dame rushing attack is a sept. 8 Purdue W 20-17 
major reason why the Irish are the only sept. 15 @ Michigan St. W 20-3 
team in the Fbs to have never trailed sept. 22 Michigan W 13-6 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 

40 nick Tausch (sr.) 
40 nick Tausch (sr.) at any point this season. riddick leads oct. 6 vs. Miami 
KO 
PK 
the way with 242 yards and two touch-oct. 13 Stanford 
George Atkinson (So.) 
Ben Turk (Sr.) 
6 Theo riddick (sr.) 27 Kyle brindza (so.) 
KR 
P 
downs, and has emerged as a surpris-oct. 20 BYU 
PR 
LS 

Davonte’ Neal (Fr.) ing between-the-tackles rushing threat oct. 27 @ Oklahoma 
Jordan Cowart (Sr.) 

61 scott daly (Fr.) 81 John Goodman (Gr.) 
in short-yardage situations. nov. 3 Pittsburgh 
After a breakout performance (99 nov. 10 @ Boston College 
yards and two touchdowns on nine car-nov. 17 Wake Forest 
ries) in notre dame’s 50-10 victory over nov. 24 @ USC 


Andrew Gastelum 
Associate sports editor 
There are a few things that should worry the Irish this week. The biggest thing is the september momentum may be lost due to the bye week. It is a completely new month with another set of tough teams, and miami is no exception. 
miami boasts a strong passing attack that has been relent­less in recent weeks led by stephen morris. If the Irish defense has a weakness, it is the young secondary that has yet to face a real passing attack yet. miami’s offense brings a balanced attack to chicago, something that the Irish definitely don’t have. 
It’s hard to say the Irish will score more than 20 points based on their recent performance, and honestly this score could be the other way around if notre dame looks ahead to stanford next week. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 20, miami 12 


Matthew DeFranks 
Associate sports editor 
Let’s get this out there. miami is not as good as its 4-1 record indicates. They have beat their three Fbs opponents by an average of seven points while allowing more than 500 yards in each conference win. 
A team that was originally slated to finish fifth in its six-team division has overachieved on its way to the top of the coastal division. The ‘canes have re­lied on the big play and miami has stopped chunk plays in wins over michigan and michigan state. 
everett Golson should find his stride against the very subpar miami defense and the hurricanes will struggle against the stringent Irish defense that has yet to allow a rushing touchdown in 2012. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 34, miami 13 








Johnson poses  all-around threat 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate sports editor 
miami running back duke Johnson is fifth in the nation in all-purpose yards. he is second in the Acc in kickoff return average. he leads the hurricanes in touchdowns. 
All this, and he’s just a freshman. 
Johnson came out of miami norland senior high school as the no. 1 running back in the country after gaining nearly 2,000 yards and scor­ing 29 touchdowns as a senior. he was also named Florida’s mr. Football while his team claimed a state title for the first time in nearly a decade. 
In his collegiate debut against boston college, Johnson ran for 135 yards and two touchdowns on just seven carries. he became the first miami freshman to top the century mark in rushing yards in his first game since clinton Portis did it in 1999. 
“everybody’s got to get to the ball, especially with duke,” Irish senior linebacker manti Te’o said. “he’ll jump cuts and he’ll split defenders, so everyone has to get to the ball and everybody has to do their best and play within our scheme; realizing that duke has the chance to break it at any time.” 
The 5-foot-9, 188-pound freshman may not have the size of some other backs but makes up for it with his blaz­ing speed. In high school, Johnson was clocked at 4.47 in the 40-yard dash. 
“oh, my gosh, he’s fast,” Irish graduate student defen­sive end Kapron Lewis-moore said. “When that guy touches the ball, he has the ability to take it to the house every sin­gle time. he’s a smaller back but he’s fast and we have to really be on top of our game.” 
In just five games, the miami product already has four touchdowns of more than 50 yards, equaling the 2011 total for the hurricanes. he has 11 total touchdowns while adding 184 total yards per game. 
“duke Johnson is a very ex­plosive running back,” Te’o said. “he’s a very dynamic player who he will make plays catching the ball, running the ball and on special teams.” 
Johnson stars on offense both rushing the ball — aver­aging almost seven yards per carry — and catching the ball at the rate of nearly 10 yards per reception. but he is also a threat on special teams, aver­aging 30 yards per return, in­cluding a touchdown. 
Irish coach brian Kelly said the Irish have dealt with other multidimensional players so far this season. 
“Last week’s kid was pretty multidimensional, [michigan quarterback] denard robinson. he’s a pretty good football player too. so we’ve had those players that we’ve had to prepare for,” Kelly said. “he’s a very good football player, and a number of player that’s we’re going to see over the next eight weeks that have similar skill sets. 
“Well, I will tell you, we know where he is [on kick­offs]. We’re going to have to be quite aware as to where he is, and make sure that we do a great job in our cover teams.” 
Johnson pairs with senior running back mike James to provide a couple of op­tions in the miami backfield. James has 278 yards and three touchdowns this season. 
“It’s kind of like a light­ning-lightning pretty much,” Lewis-moore said. “They’re short guys but they’re not scared of taking it inside, be­tween the tackles. We have to fundamentally sound across the board.” 
The Irish are the only team in the Football bowl subdivision that has not al­lowed a rushing touchdown. notre dame also has not giv­en up a play of more than 50 yards. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 





ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012 | The observer 




Chicago-area players return to home city 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Assistant managing editor 
on oct. 28, 2001, chicago bears safety mike brown in­tercepted Jeff Garcia’s pass and scampered 33 yards into the end zone to notch a 37­31 overtime victory over the san Francisco 49ers. A young chris salvi was in the stands, taking in the thrill of his first nFL game. 
After attending nearly 20 bears games throughout his life, the Lake Forest, Ill., na­tive will fulfill a lifelong dream saturday when he runs out of the soldier Field tun­nel in this year’s shamrock series game. It’s been nearly 11 years since his first soldier Field experience, but the memory still vividly plays through the senior safety’s mind. 
“As a bears fan, this is going to be great,” salvi said. “I’ve been there to watch plenty of games; with the bears play­ing in soldier Field, it’s a great experience.” 
salvi is not the only Irish player who might feel out of place on the field instead of in the stands this weekend. sophomore receiver davaris daniels also lays claim to a unique connection to the his­toric field. his father, Phillip daniels, starred as a bears defensive end from 2000­2003 and recorded 23 sacks during his four seasons. 
“I’m excited to be honest,” daniels said. “Going back home, playing in front of my whole high school is probably going to be there, so it’s defi­nitely exciting. 
“We’re playing on a field my dad used to play on also. That’s a crazy feeling. I can’t wait.” 
despite the excitement of playing in the stadium in which he grew up cheering his heroes, daniels doesn’t expect to feel any differently at kickoff than he would in any other game. 
“It will definitely be spe­cial, but I think I’ll be able to handle it pretty well,” he said. 
With 10 current players hailing from Illinois, this weekend will be a homecom­ing of sorts for a portion of the Irish roster. but the play­ers said they will only leave soldier Field with a sweet taste in their mouths if they can avoid a bitter defeat. 
“I want it to be a win,” said senior guard chris Watt when asked what he wants his memory of the game to be. 
Watt, a Glen ellyn, Ill., resi­dent, first attended a bears game with his father and brother in 1998, but never reached the catholic League championship, annually held at soldier Field. 
“[The chicago-area play­ers] are all really excited, too. davaris’ dad played there for a number of seasons and [junior quarterback Tommy rees’] dad worked in the or­ganization,” Watt said. “It’s kind of home for both of them. so they’re looking for­ward to getting back there. I’ve got coaches coming, lots of friends from the area and my parents and brother as well.” 
Watt said the allure of play­ing in high-profile games helped attract him to notre dame when he was weighing his options in high school. 
“It’s awesome,” he said. “coming here as a recruit, seeing that I was playing in dublin and at soldier Field my senior year was nice. It’s been something I’ve been looking forward to since I came here.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 



