
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 2, 2012 
Feduska continues to contribute to Bouts despite injury 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
Senior captain and Bengal Bouts co-president Collin Fe­duska has been an Irish gradu­ate in waiting ever since he took his first steps on Notre Dame’s campus. 
“I was indoctrinated pretty early on,” he said. “I actually took my first steps here, which is kind of funny. I have the pic­ture of me taking my first steps. It’s very triumphant too, with me holding my hands up and every­thing.” 
Though that was undoubtedly his first epic moment on cam­pus, Feduska cited a couple other epic moments in his four years at Notre Dame — namely his favor­ite memory from fighting in Ben­gal Bouts. 
“The first two years, [my favor­ite moment] was definitely wait­ing for my fight the first night, sitting there with your robe up. The priest comes over and gives you the blessing, your heart rate starts going up as you stand up and start walking toward the ring, the lights are on you. That was definitely my favorite part,” he said. “Even sometimes sitting in class I get flashbacks and my heart will start going again, so that was an awesome experi­ence.” 
Unfortunately those flash­backs are the only way Fedus­ka can experience that feeling again, as a recurring shoulder injury has prevented him from participating in the tournament for the last two years. 
The Pennsylvania native and Keough Hall resident suffered the first injury to his shoulder during a soccer game in his sophomore year of high school. Though he went through surgery the following summer, the prob­lem recurred. 
“It got pretty out of hand my sophomore year when the dislo­cations started happening a lot more,” he said. “I had a couple my freshman year, but it wasn’t anything I was really concerned about. But sophomore year I couldn’t go most days without having it happen.” 
Feduska started his boxing ca­reer at Notre Dame in impressive fashion, reaching the finals of the 140-pound division his freshman year only to fall to a four-time Bengal Bouts champion, then-senior Kris Perez. Even when his shoulder dislocated during his third round bout his sophomore year, Feduska managed to power through the fight. 
“My sophomore year I was wearing a brace in my fight, and it was the third round and I dis­located it,” he said. “Nobody re­ally noticed because I was able to get it back in and you couldn’t re­ally see it at all because I had the brace. So I continued fighting. I lost in a split decision.” 
Feduska was asked to be a captain for his junior year, but the season ended in a disap­pointing fashion as he threw out his shoulder in a spar the week before the tournament began. 
“It was a little bit disappoint­ing,” he said. “It happens and it’s just a total system shock. You don’t expect it. I had the surgery and everything was supposed to be fine, and then you kind of get your world turned upside down on you.” 
But despite the injury and the certainty that he would not be able to fight his senior year, Fe­duska said the decision to return was a no-brainer. 
“I was a junior captain, so once you’re a junior captain not only are you kind of expected to stick with it but at that point you re­ally want to stay with it,” he said. “You went through everything the first year and you really want to come back and do the teach­ing. So it wasn’t a hard decision at all. I was also asked to be co-president with [senior Kevin Ortenzio] so that was a really big deal for me and I couldn’t turn that down. It was not a hard deci­sion at all for me to want to come back and help out this year.” 
Though actually participat­ing in the tournament is not an option, Feduska still plays an integral role in training his fel­low boxers. In fact, the senior is often the first person in the gym for conditioning and the last to leave, putting in roughly 12-14 hours of training per week. 
“I can do pretty much every­thing except get into the ring with guys, so that’s pretty much where I draw the line,” he said. “I still do all the training, all the conditioning. I came into it want­ing to be pretty active, so I’m usually one of the first guys down there when I can be and I usually leave probably a half hour after the actual practice ends.” 
Feduska’s work ethic has not only paid off in the gym, but in the classroom, as the pre­med student has been accepted to Temple Medical School and waitlisted at Jefferson Medical School, both in Philadelphia. With a growing interest in or­thopedic surgery thanks to his own medical struggle, Feduska said he will definitely be attend­ing medical school back on the east coast, ensuring that Fedus­ka will be near his family after graduation. 
“I have a lot of family in Philly, so it’ll be nice to be able to go there whenever I need mental support,” he said. 
Family and tradition are clear­ly major influences for Fedus­ka, as his father and two older brothers all participated in Ben­gal Bouts. 
“[One of my brothers] was a senior when I was a fresh­man, so he kind of showed me the ropes even before I got into Bengal Bouts,” Feduska said. “It wasn’t anything major, I’d just be throwing punches with him. One day he asked if I wanted to give it a shot, and I said ‘yeah.’” 
Though his Bengal Bouts expe­rience may have gone differently than planned, Feduska said that he has a new favorite aspect of Bengal Bouts. 
“After I found out I couldn’t fight anymore, [my favorite part about Bengal Bouts] definitely shifted towards just being able to sit in the corner for people — especially when friends come through — and cheering them on, being an active participant right there in the corner telling them what to do,” he said. “That’s pretty cool.” 
The senior said he is always more than willing to support any of his fellow boxers. 
“I’ll always be jumping around,” he said. “If there’s an open corner I’ll just jump into it. Even if I don’t know the guy at all I’ll still jump in and get re­ally into the fight, just be pound­ing on their backs and yelling stuff at them. It’s not hard to get wrapped up in the fight of some­body even if you have no idea who they are.” 
Looking back on his time at Notre Dame as a whole, Feduska said his favorite moment in col­lege is his favorite moment of Bengal Bouts — just sitting there waiting for his fight. But Feduska added a few other memories to his Notre Dame highlight list. 
“There have been some really good Friday nights — a lot of re­ally fun Friday nights.” 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 


VP Bortolotti uses martial arts training to his advantage 
more technical aspects of box-spect every other fighter for ing and the defense.” who they are,” Bortolotti said. 
Bortolotti said his experi-“You really have to respect ev­ence with martial arts fac-ery guy out here in this pro­tored into his decision to be-gram and be wary of their come involved with Bengal abilities. [You] need to go into Bouts. the ring with a healthy dose of 
“Boxing was still a martial fear instead of walking around arts type of sport, but it also like you’re invincible.” had the whole social mission Bortolotti described each and it was a good way to get fight as a terrifying challenge back in shape,” Bortolotti said. during which you learn what 
While some boxers would you’re made of. rather brawl than box, Bor-“You’re just going in there, tolotti said he prefers a more putting yourself up against technical approach in the ring. another guy and squaring off 
“I’m a pretty technical box-in one of the most barbaric er,” he said. “I don’t like to ways,” he said. “That’s always stand there and brawl. I like been a scary thing.” to put on a good boxing match, Despite missing a year of the to the delight of some fans and tournament, Bortolotti was the disgust of others. Some named the vice president and people are just there to see a a captain for this year’s Bengal gladiator match.” Bouts. In this role, Bortolotti 
Bortolotti, who is also a So-has helped out with the wom­rin College Resident Assistant, en’s annual Baraka Bouts, run said his style predicated on practices and taught different quickness and defense can boxing techniques. easily frustrate an opponent. In addition to the physical 
“I like to move around a lot,” aspect of the job, he has also he said. “I like to slip punches, sent letters to Bengal Bouts not get hit. It’s really tough on alumni asking for donations, someone if they’re throwing a set dates for the tournament, bunch of combos and they’re drawn up weigh-in procedures landing maybe one out of ev-and designed posters and ad­ery five or six punches.” vertising campaigns. 
Bortolotti did not compete in After Notre Dame, Bortolotti the tournament a year ago be-said he would like to work with cause he was studying abroad people as a financial analyst or in London during the spring a manager. semester. “It’s been a great experi­
“It was a tough decision to ence to not only come here By MATTHEW DeFRANKS “You get all wrapped up and The Elmhurst, Ill. native was make, but four Notre Dame for a great education, but also Sports Writer taped up and ready to go,” he a martial arts enthusiast in football seasons while I was a the social atmosphere and the 
said. “There’s usually about 15 high school, claiming a black student was pretty important dorm culture,” Bortolotti said. 
You might think it is the or 20 minutes until you step belt in Hapkido, the Korean so I sacrificed a year of Bengal “I’ve learned more outside the months of training. You might in the ring and it’s the worst martial art of self-defense. Bouts,” he said. classroom than inside. It’s a think it is the bloody noses part.” Bortolotti said the skills he In his first two years of fight-place to come where you can and black eyes. You might even During the wait, the senior learned in Hapkido have trans-ing, Bortolotti advanced as far really grow up and learn about 
think it is the ordeal of making finance major said he tries to ferred over to the boxing ring. as the semifinals during his yourself.” weight. keep his head clear and stay “It definitely helped out just sophomore year before losing. Bortolotti will face sopho-
But according to senior cap-focused on his opponent. The having the general motions During his experience with more Will Peterson in the fi­tain and club vice president approach has worked well for and being able to know how to the boxing club, he said he has nals. Nick Bortolotti, the hardest Bortolotti thus far, earning throw a punch,” he said. “There learned to respect his oppo­thing about Bengal Bouts is the him a spot in Saturday night’s were still plenty of things I nents. Contact Matthew DeFranks at long wait before the fight. finals. had to learn about some of the “I definitely learned to re-mdefrank@nd.edu 

Friday, March 2, 2012 The Observer u BENGAL BOUTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

Bouts legend Mike Lee inspires Fessler to begin boxing 


By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
If you ever need a suggestion for a good television show, senior Ben­gal Bouts captain Andrew Fessler is the one to ask. 
“I’m telling you, I watch a lot of TV. I mean, I gave up Internet TV for Lent,” Fessler said. “I can’t wait until ‘Mad Men’ comes back. But the best TV show of all time is ‘Arrested Development.’ Without a doubt.” 
And if you ever need boxing ad­vice, “Fess the Mess” can help out there as well. 
Fessler, who worked with Bara­ka Bouts in the fall in addition to his captain duties, said one of the highlights of his Bengal Bouts ex­perience was sparring against a novice boxer and watching him improve in the weeks leading up to his first fight. 
“I was a lot more experienced than he was, but then I helped him out afterwards, trying to tell him what he was doing wrong and help him improve, and he ended up winning his first fight,” Fessler said. “He improved so much since the beginning of the semester. I thought that was really cool — see­ing those kids improving and com­ing back and still wanting to be a part of the program.” 
Before Fessler was a mentor for younger fighters, a Bengal Bouts legend persuaded him to give box­ing a try. 
“I heard about Bengal Bouts when I was in high school and I came out to visit my older brother,” Fessler said. “He was really good friends with (alumnus) Mike Lee — they lived at a house together when I was a sophomore — but [Lee] con­vinced me my freshman year.” 
While Lee, a professional box­er and three-time Bengal Bouts champion, and his endorsement certainly helped, Fessler said he was also attracted by the prospect of joining a new team. 
“I really like the whole camara­derie aspect of it,” Fessler said. “As a former football player, that was definitely something that was ap­pealing to me when I heard people talk about Bengal Bouts.” 
Fessler said his family and friends back home were generally supportive of his new hobby. 
“A lot of people thought it was cool. They were kind of jealous that they would have had to do club boxing at some of their schools, and a lot of people didn’t want to put that much time into it,” Fes­sler said. “As for my parents, they weren’t too concerned. I’ve always done contact sports — I wrestled, I played football, and they were like, ‘You know what, go for it.’ Though my dad doesn’t really like watching my fights.” 
Although Fessler enjoyed his new sport, it was not always smooth sailing in the ring. 
“In my freshman fight I got paired up against a former champ in the first round,” Fessler said. “I wasn’t a very good boxer back then, so my goal that fight was just not to get knocked out. I accom­plished that goal, but I definitely did not win that fight.” 
Fessler improved his sophomore year, reaching the second round. Though he did not fight his junior year due to scheduling conflicts, Fessler returned this year with a vengeance. 
“Knocking a kid out in the first round this year — that was pretty cool,” Fessler said of his first round victory over freshman Pat Galla­gher. 
But Fessler’s season ended in the quarterfinals when he lost to sophomore Joel “Hashtag” Hlavaty by unanimous decision. 
“I definitely didn’t fight my best. I gave it my all, but my head wasn’t in it and I couldn’t get comfortable in the ring,” Fessler said. 
Fessler said although he will ap­preciate the free time he has now that he is no longer practicing and competing, it was a disappointing way to end something that was such a large part of his life. 
“It really stinks losing, but there’s also a sense of relief when you’re done, because of all this work and time you’ve been spending,” Fes­sler said. “You obviously want to see it through to the end, so it’s bit­tersweet in the sense that you’re free to go on about your life again, but without so much commitment. 
“But it stinks losing, and that was the last time that I’m going to be able to compete, so it was defi­nitely more bitter than sweet.” 
The accounting major will re­turn to Notre Dame next year for the MSA program. Though Fessler has another year of eligibility left, he has not decided if he is going to use it. 
“I’ve thought about it because I have another year of eligibility, but I don’t know. We’ll see how the workload is,” he said. “It’s half a se­mester, and as much as it’s worth it, I don’t know if I’m going to be able to go through that again. But we’ll see.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


National football champion Arnold comes to Bouts 
By BRIAN HARTNETT it embodies the Linfield football tions in their training due to simple strategy. he will take away from the pro-Sports Writer spirit.” their unique style of fighting. “My strategy is just to stick to gram. 
After Arnold began law “For heavyweights, the thing my training,” Arnold said. “We “I think that just bonding 
As Bengal Bouts is a taxing school at Notre Dame, he looked that makes you different from have good coaches here at Ben-with the other captains has competition of physical endur-for some sort of athletic activity other fighters is that you have gal Bouts that teach us a lot, been my favorite memory,” Ar­ance, it comes as no surprise to fill the void left by football. to be a little more cautious and so I plan to just stick to what nold said. “I’ve developed some that many competitors are After devoting his first year of defensive, since one big punch I know and keep going for the friendships that I think will be impressive athletes who can law school to adjusting to the from another heavyweight box-victory.” life-long through boxing and, list numerous athletic achieve-increased workload and more er can end a fight pretty quick-In the end, though, Arnold best of all, I’ve done it all for a ments. strenuous academics, he decid-ly,” Arnold said. said his Bengal Bouts experi-good cause.” 
Third-year law student Nate ed to take the advice of several These precautions, however, ence would not be defined by Arnold, however, boasts one of his fellow law students who are not the only caveat in Ar-how many victories he earned, Contact Brian Hartnett at unusual accomplishment — he were involved in Bengal Bouts nold’s training regimen. Arnold but by the lifelong friendships bhartnet@nd.edu was a member of an NCAA na-and started competing in the also faces the obstacle of bal­tional championship football program last year. ancing his Bengal Bouts train-team. Arnold concluded his first ing with the intense workload 
The Edmonds, Wash. na-year of competition in Bengal and pressures of his final year tive attended Linfield College Bouts last season with a strong of law school. He said these in McMinnville, Ore. for his second-place showing in the two commitments have forced undergraduate studies. While heavyweight division, falling in him to be incredibly efficient at at Linfield, Arnold spent four the finals to then-senior Kevin managing his time. years on the football team as Crepeau. Despite losing his fi-“I think that what really gets a defensive tackle, helping the nal bout, Arnold said that he sacrificed is my social life, team win the NCAA Division was pleased with the results of since there’s so many responsi-III national championship his his first experience with box-bilities I need to meet,” Arnold freshman year. ing. said. “I just have to manage my 
Arnold said while the skills “Going into last year, I hadn’t day down to the hour to make needed for football don’t neces-done an individual sports since sure I’m getting all my work sarily translate to boxing, his high school wrestling, and I done and getting all the train-experience as a football player had no boxing skills, so I didn’t ing hours I need.” instilled in him a strong work really have high expectations Fortunately for Arnold, his ethic — one he now applies to at all,” Arnold said. “I would dedication to both facets has his boxing career. have liked to have won all my yielded great benefits, as he 
“Just as you have to put a matches, but I exceeded my will be working in commercial lot of time and dedication into own expectations at least.” litigation at a Seattle law firm football, you have to devote a With one Bengal Bouts tour-after graduating from Notre lot of time to boxing,” Arnold nament under his belt, Arnold Dame. said. “I’d say that the dedica-said he spent much of the last He hopes this same dedica­tion required for boxing is even year focusing on boxing-specif-tion will yield similar results greater, since you need to train ic training. His daily training in his athletic career over the somewhere around 10,000 min-regimen includes a short run next few weeks, as he seeks to utes just to be prepared to fight in the morning, followed by a claim the Bengal Bouts heavy-one minute of a boxing match.” session in the Pit in which he weight title this year. 
Arnold continues to pay hom-practices on the heavy bag or Arnold has gotten off to a age to his alma mater with his uses focus mitts. Afterward, he good start in this year’s Ben-unique nickname — “Catdome.” usually spars with other boxers gal Bouts, defeating sophomore 
“‘Catdome’ is a saying used and then caps his evening with Rob McKenna in his quarterfi­by my undergrad football team, another short run or a swim. nal bout and law student John similar to how “Roll Tide” is Training is difficult enough Rompf in the semifinals. He used by Alabama,” Arnold for any Bengal Bouts athlete, was uncharacteristically quiet said. “It’s a thing that Linfield but Arnold said heavyweights when asked about his expecta­alumni say to each other, and must observe different precau-tions, but revealed his rather 

133 pounds 154 pounds 
Jack Lally vs Niels Seim Sunoh Choe vs Garrity McOsker 

PATH TO THE FINALS 
Lally
   def. James Doan in 
quarterfinals
   def. Joe Decker in 

semifinals Lally’s defensive and Seim wants to



Siem

opportunistic style make the fight a
   def. Mark Frego in 

and impressive, quick close bout but is
quarterfinals 

footwork allow willing to close him to easily evade    def.Tony Lucisano the gap and take a a punch. He can in semifinals punch. He is strong dodge but also put and quick in tight himself in position to spaces and patient immediately counter. enough to find He also has surprising the weakest parts power and quickness of his opponent’s on the attack. game. 




142 pounds 

Nick Bortolotti vs Will Peterson 


PATH TO THE FINALS 
Bortolotti
   def. Charles Lee in quarterfinals
   def. Nick Rowek in 

semifinals Bortolotti’s desirable Peterson, a defending 



Peterson 

combination of champion, is not
   def.Will O’Laughlin 

strength and afraid to go for the 
in quarterfinals 

quickness allows big hit but is also him to break down    def. John Garvin in patient enough to an opponent’s semifinals read his opponent’s 
guard with quick weak spots. He has combinations. If a strong right hook he can push his and uses it often opponent to the when he goes all out rope, look for him to looking to finish the unleash huge punches. fight. 




148 pounds 

Kevin Ortenzio vs Ben Eichler 


PATH TO THE FINALS 
Oretenzio
   def.Alex Calderon in quarterfinals
   def. Ryan Power in 

semifinals Ortenzio’s quick Eichler, a showman 



Eichler

movement allows for who looks for the
   def.Tighe Beach in 

him to dodge and then exciting hit, is accurate 
quarterfinals 

throw punches from but powerful. He wants advantageous positions.   def. Casey Allare to control the fight He does not seem to in semifinals using his aggression tire easily, so the later and strength. When rounds are where he he senses a victory, has the most impact. His Eichler’s killer instinct quick duck opens up the kicks in and he goes body and head for a jab for the spectacular following the dodge. finish. 

Choe, a calm and collected fighter, 
prefers to keep the fight at his pace so he can exhibit his 
technical prowess. 
When he is on the 
offensive, Choe is a powerful 
attacker that can 
overwhelm an 
opponent. 


PATH TO THE FINALS 
Choe

   def. John Gawey in 
preliminaries   def. Calvin 
Hemington in 
quarterfinals

   def. Keegan Somers 
in semifinals 
McOsker

   def. Robert Carter in preliminaries
   def. Josh Whalen in semifinals 
def. Joel Hlavaty in semifinals 

McOsker, a freshman, lacks 
experience but 
moves well in 
the ring and is 
an aggressive 
boxer. McOsker 
packs a powerful 
punch with each connection stunning the opponent. 




158 pounds 
Greg Cunningham vs Joey Kim 

Cunningham waits for his opponent 
to punch, especially body shots, then takes advantage of 
the break in defense with one of his strong jabs. Once one jab penetrates the 
defense, he unleashes a series of jabs, usually head shots. 
PATH TO THE FINALS 
Cunningham

   def. Dan Shapiro in preliminaries
   def. Mark Felder in quarterfinals
   def. Sean Mullen in semifinals Kim
   def. Jake Wrigley in preliminaries
   def. Nick Yulan in semifinals 
def. Danny Leicht in 
semifinals 





165 pounds 
Inoh Choe vs Alex Oloriz 

Kim has a long arm reach, so he tries to 
keep opponents at 
bay while he figures 
out their defenses. He is strong on defense and waits for the opponent to 
let their guard down, then uses his long arms to unleash a 
series of punches. 

Choe feigns punches and waits for the opponent to throw a punch then dodges 
quickly and counters. From here, he keeps 
punching the body and transitions 
quickly to throwing 
head shots. He 
dodges well and packs a powerful punch. 
PATH TO THE FINALS 
Choe

   def. John Ryan in 
preliminaries

   def. Murphy Lester in quarterfinals
   def. Daniel Griess in semifinals Oloriz
   def.Alex Yurkowski in preliminaries
   def.Alex Grace in semifinals 
def. Dallas Bunsa in semifinals 

Oloriz, a quick fighter, dodges a lot, mainly to the right 
and sweeps punches out of the way with 
his left hand. He 
jabs with his right and goes into a combo of body shots 
followed by powerful 
uppercuts to the head. 




171 pounds 204 pounds 
Ryan Alberdi vs Jake Joe Bart Dear vs Brian Salat 

PATH TO THE 


PATH TO THE FINALS FINALS 
Alberdi 


Dear
   def. Zach Harris in 

   def. Ricky Neville in quarterfinals 
quarterfinals   def. Patrick Spittler in 
   def. Reid Paape in 
semifinals 

semifinals Alberdi, strong Joe returns to the Dear uses his smaller Salat utilizes a quick

Joe Salat
on defense, does finals after finishing build and low stance and powerful jab-
def. Bryan Cooley in    def. Robert Hammer 
not have the most second in the to counter his hook combination.
quarterfinals in preliminaries 
movement but 167-pound division opponents with an He also features a throws strong def. Jeff Ulrich in last year. Joe is an array of body shots. def. David Fosselman strong uppercut that calculated punches semifinals aggressive fighter who He shows a unique in quarterfinals he uses frequently when he sees the wears opponents ability to anticipate his and is strong on 
def. Chris Sarkis in 

chance. He blocks down by throwing opponent’s next move, the defensive end, 
semifinals
both body and many punches and allowing him to protect showing an ability to head punches well, maintaining a high his body and outlast keep his opponent then exploits the intensity throughout other fighters over the at bay by deflecting opening. the fight. course of the bout. many punches. 






180 pounds Heavyweight 
Joe Garrity vs Connor Skelly Nate Arnold vs Daniel Yi 
PATH TO THE 


PATH TO THE FINALS 

FINALS 
Garrity 

Arnold
   def. Peter Ingallinera 
   def. Rob McKenna in 
in preliminaries 

quarterfinals   def. Eric Palutsis in 
   def. John Rompf in 
quarterfinals 

semifinals Though law student Skelly, a veteran Arnold, who is Yi is nimble for the 
   def. by Brian Salvi in Yi
Brian Salvi defeated boxer, has relied on a surprisingly quick, heavyweight division, 
semifinals def. Mike Voge in 
Garrity in the mix of strong defense looks to get but he also has the
Skelly quarterfinals 
semifinals, Garrity and aggressive his opponents expected strength. will be fighting in def. Steven Kraska in punches thus far. He backpedaling by def. Brian Ellixson in He has an impressive the final due to a semifinals blocks well against charging with furious semifinals dodging ability and scheduling conflict opponents’ punches jabs and powerful has quick hands. He 
def. Nick Grasberger 

for Salvi. In the and then uses his hooks. He fights is able to attack his
in semifinals

preliminary round long reach to launch aggressively and likes opponent with both Garrity displayed high attacks, showing to attack first with his jabs and hooks that his strength, causing an ability to land deadly combination of can catch the other multiple stoppages. many headshots. agility and strength. fighter by surprise. 





188 pounds 
Adrian Moreno vs Chris Salvi 

PATH TO THE FINALS 
Moreno
   def.Tim Crowley in quarterfinals
   def. Frank Conway in 

semifinals Moreno possesses Salvi, a Notre Dame 



Salvi

an ability to finish football player, has 
def. Carl Ianiro in 

strongly, as he has run simply overpowered 
semifinals

away with both of his opponents his previous matches def. Brian Tower in thus far. Salvi in the final round. semifinals uses his muscular He relies on his build to pound 
strength to defeat his his opponents 
opponents, attacking with powerful them with a series of punches, but he also well-timed powerful demonstrates great punches. quickness in the ring. 

page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 2, 2012 




Skelly grows from sophomore novice to senior captain 

By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 

A tall, lanky, laid-back Cali­fornia surfer might not be the first image that comes to mind with the word “boxer.” But senior captain Connor “Skel­lator” Skelly makes those two worlds collide. 
“I’m from San Diego, so I just surfed in high school and I nev­er wrestled or boxed until I did Bengal Bouts,” Skelly said. 
Although starting late in the Bouts — he was a novice as a sophomore — Skelly has come a long way since then. 
“I actually didn’t fight my freshman year, but a lot of old­er guys who I looked up to in the dorm did,” Skelly said. “I went to the Bengal Bouts tour­nament and saw a friend fight, and I wanted to try it out.” 
With difficult extra train­ing before and after practices, Skelly has overcome the missed year and become an accom­plished Bengal Bouts boxer. 
“Practice is from 4:30 to 6 [p.m.] every day, but the gym is open from 4 to 7,” he said. “I like to come before and get some extra training in and then stay late after. I also try to spar every day. The more you spar, the better you get. Out­side of the training sessions and sparring, I have been try­ing to swim lately. It’s a great work out.” 

During Skelly’s sophomore year, he broke his nose in the preliminaries and was unable to continue fighting. He almost did not return his junior year, but he liked Bengal Bouts too much. In his junior year, Skelly won two bouts before losing in the semifinals. This year, Skel­ly sets his eyes on winning the 180-pound division. 
“My goal this year is to win,” Skelly said. “But I have just enjoyed hanging out with the guys, working with the novices and being down in the pit — the little things. I’ll miss it.” 
Skelly plans on using his height and long reach to his advantage this year. 
“I’m a tall guy with long arms, so I always try to keep guys at a distance from me,” Skelly said. “I feel like because of my height, my strengths are my jabs. This is also my weak­ness when guys get inside on me because it’s hard for me to uppercut. Boxing is like a chess match. You always have to keep thinking about how you’ll get the best punches in and what your opponent is go­ing to do and how you’ll coun­teract them.” 
This year as a captain, Skelly has taken extra responsibili­ties. He has a variety of duties, including organizing practices and work-outs, calling coach­es, selling shirts and perform­ing other small tasks. He jokes about some of these duties, but nonetheless takes them all se­riously and realizes their val­ue towards developing a good year of bouts. 
“It’s a totally student-run thing and the captains have to organize everything,” he said. “I have been typing up a lot of emails lately. I didn’t real­ize before all the little things I had to do as a captain, but I’ll do whatever I need to in order for Bengal Bouts to be the best. My duties as captains don’t go against my training though. As captains, we prepare a hard work-out and then do the work­out with everyone else.” 
Skelly put a lot of emphasis on the team aspect of the Ben­gal Bouts and said his favorite task is helping novices. He said he hopes he can be a positive influence on the younger fight­ers and emulate what the older fighters did for him. 
“My favorite thing about Bengal Bouts is the team as­pect,” Skelly said. “I know ev­eryone comes to the tourna­ment and that’s exciting, but we’ve been training since Oc­tober. I like working with the guys. A lot of my good friends I have met through Bengal Bouts. I want to keep that go­ing with the novices and then have them keep it going. I want them to have the same experi­ence of camaraderie I had and continue this tradition with fu­ture fighters.” 
Skelly said he has learned numerous lessons throughout his years of Bengal Bouts and wants to share these lessons with the other fighters, espe­cially the novices. 
“I think you gain a lot of self-discipline,” he said. “Also, working as a team is a big quality gained. Although box­ing is an individual sport, all of the workouts and sparring together build teamwork.” 
The San Diego native was never a combative person and said his family has expressed mixed feelings about his box­ing career. 
“My mom hates it, but the rest of my family thinks it’s re­ally cool,” Skelly said. “I send videos of my fights to them and they usually enjoy the fights. I always bring home shirts for my brother and cousins, and they like me boxing.” 
Skelly will fight in the 180-pound weight-class finals against senior Joe Garrity with his eyes on the prize, but more importantly, the senior said he is happy passing on the tradi­tion of Bengal Bouts. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 



Children aided by Bengal Bouts inspire captain Oloriz 
By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
In the ring, nothing else mat­ters. The crowd, the distractions and everything else are left in the darkness outside the ropes. It is the two fighters pitting their skill against one another, and that’s it. To junior captain Alex Oloriz, the beauty of Bengal Bouts is this simplicity. 
“When the lights are on you, everything else is dark,” Oloriz said. “You’re in your own little world of canvas with leather gloves and your opponent.” 
Though boxing has its critics due to its violent nature, Oloriz sees the sport in a very different light. 
“My favorite thing about being inside the ring is that I’m alive fighting another person that’s alive, and we have one purpose,” he said. “I can put aside every­thing else, because for those two minutes all I need to do is box. It’s like nothing else, but the simplic­ity of it is beautiful.” 
Oloriz, who plays the blues har­monica, even compares the fight to a symphony. In that case, Ol­oriz has almost achieved world-class composition during his last two tournaments. 
As a freshman, Oloriz made it to the finals of the tournament, despite his inexperience. In the final round, Oloriz was pit­ted against then-senior captain John Maier. Inexperience finally caught up with Oloriz, as Maier won the title. 
“Freshman year in the finals, I was fighting a captain and I was thinking, ‘Is this guy going to kill me?’” he said. “I was scared and nervous with all my friends out in the crowd as I walked up.” 
A year later, he made another run at the title. Last year’s final pitted Oloriz against another then-senior, Matt Enzweiller, where Oloriz suffered another finals loss due in large part to Enzweiller’s seven-inch height advantage. 
“The first year I didn’t really know what I was getting into,” he said. “But during the past two years the captains kept on telling me to be confident.” 
For most people, a chance to make it back to the finals and win would be enough motivation. But for Oloriz, there is more to it than just winning. Oloriz said he dedicates his time and effort to his family and the people in Ban­gladesh. 
“The mission for Bengal Bouts is to put on a good fight, but even though there’s a little bit of glory for you, there is a higher pur­pose,” he said. “You want to help support Bangladesh by bringing in more people to see good fights. And you want to make your par­ents proud.” 
For Oloriz, Bengal Bouts have just added to the many experi­ences he shares with his family. His fights and training have be­come a common discussion top­
ic. Last week, when the junior’s family attended his quarterfinal win for the first time, it was an incredible moment for Oloriz. 
“[The quarterfinal fight] was the first time my parents were able to see me fight live and there was something magical about that night,” Oloriz said. “For them to see the result of the time and work that I put in, it meant to world to me. After the fight, I went over to my dad and just hugged him for a solid three min­utes.” 
Although there are outside mo­tivators like individual accolades, Oloriz said he takes pride in rais­ing money for a greater purpose, while doing something he loves. 
“Every year in boxing is a blessing because I know it’s more than fighting,” he said. “We get to go out there and fight for a higher purpose.” 
Recently, the training room walls were decorated with vari­ous letters from children in Ban­gladesh expressing their grati­tude to the boxers. The visible manifestation of Bengal Bouts’ impact has only enhanced the meaning of the fights for Oloriz. 
“I went through all of them to post a couple on the website and the thing that I can be most proud of is that the biggest reward is seeing that you are really mak­ing a difference,” he said. “In all of them they say, ‘I send you all of my love,’ and it’s inspiring to have a little bit of Bangladesh around.” 
This season, Oloriz has used that inspiration to return to the finals, defeating junior Dallas Bunsa in a unanimous decision. He will look to take his first Ben­gal Bouts crown as he takes on senior Inoh Choe in the 165 lbs. final Saturday. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu 


Friday, March 2, 2012 The Observer u BENGAL BOUTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 


Ulrich fights for people of Bangladesh and family 
By PETER STEINER more year when about 18 people to share some of that experi-Sports Writer in my family came and we all had ence, especially because they post-game Mass and then post-put me in charge of marketing,” 
Going into this tournament, game dinner together at North Ulrich said. “I had to go out and Bengal Bouts already had mean-Dining Hall. New Jersey is not the have a hundred meetings with ing for junior captain Jeff Ulrich. farthest people come to school, different people. I always get to As one of the few boxers that but I’m still well enough removed talk about being in Bangladesh, actually traveled to Bangladesh from my family for it to be kind which is helpful for marketing and interacted directly with the of a separate life so I like when and advertising.” people Bengal Bouts supports, those two worlds get to come to-Even though Ulrich has been Ulrich knew exactly whom he gether. busy fundraising for Bengal was fighting for. “When my New Jersey family Bouts, he has also worked hard 
But a phone call the day of the gets to join my Notre Dame fami-preparing for the tournament. quarterfinals added even greater ly and meet each other and spend With two years of experience significance to this year’s tour-time together, that’s my favorite.” under his belt, Ulrich now un­nament. Ulrich now had a second From New Jersey to Indiana, derstands the importance of motivation, another person to Ulrich’s circle has undoubtedly training with the team. fight for. expanded over the past three “Since from appearances, it’s 
“My grandpa died on Wednes-years. But last summer his circle a very individual sport — you day, the morning of the quarter-expanded even further, this time are fighting by yourself against finals,” Ulrich said. “That [was] a to Southeast Asia. one other person — it would huge motivation for me fighting “I loved my time in Bangla-seem to some people that it’s this year. I [was fighting] for him desh,” Ulrich said. “I was there all about you,” Ulrich said. “You and for our family.” for two months ... We were most-worked hard, you see your own 

Growing up with four younger ly teaching English, but also we results. But you learn that even brothers and sisters, family has traveled around to 45 villages. in such a seemingly individual always been an essential compo-We had Mass every day with the sport, the more you are coach­nent of Ulrich’s life. Then three Holy Cross priests who were over ing other people, the more you years ago, when he came to Notre at the missions there and we lived learn yourself. The more you are Dame from New Jersey as a fresh-with the priests. It was great.” working out with other people, man, Ulrich developed a new After serving the Bengali the more you are working out family, part of which includes his people and understanding the yourself, the better you get.” Bengal Bouts teammates. Clearly impact of Bengal Bouts on the Ulrich has demonstrated that demonstrating the importance area, Ulrich brought back his improvement since his fresh-of family for the junior, many of experience back to Notre Dame man year, when he lost in the Ulrich’s best memories at Notre in a way that continued to serve preliminary round of the 163 Dame are the moments when the mission in Bangladesh. One lbs. division. Last year, Ulrich falling in a split-decision contest rich said. these two lives intersect. of Ulrich’s main responsibilities competed in the 157 lbs. division, to junior Jake Joe in the 171 lbs. “He’s watched videos, but he 
“My favorite times are when as a captain this year was mar-reaching the semifinals before semifinals. [got] to watch from heaven this my family comes and visits,” Ul-keting and advertising for Bengal falling in a close split-decision But despite the loss, Ulrich year and I [got] to have an extra rich said. “Junior Parents Week-Bouts. contest to then-sophomore Paul knows he had one fan cheering fan.” end was definitely one of my fa-“The captains thought it would Hayes. Ulrich moved up a couple hard for him from up above. vorite weekends. And then there be valuable to have me on the weight classes this year, but un-“[My grandpa] has never been Contact Peter Steiner at was a football weekend sopho-team helping out and being able fortunately met a similar result, to one of my boxing matches,” Ul-psteiner@nd.edu 

Lally looks to take home third consecutive championship 
day — it is a lifestyle.” skills in others and get people ex-
When Lally came to Notre cited about the sport of boxing in Dame, he was not familiar with the same way those captains be-boxing, but he said his past ath-fore me did.” letic experiences helped speed up Lally hopes to apply the values his development. of Bengal Bouts in his career, as he 
“In high school I was a big-time is striving to become a doctor. He soccer player and that was my plans to apply to medical schools passion, I also picked up hockey this spring and will be taking the goalie and ran track toward the MCAT in April. end of my high school career,” Lal-In the same way Lally looked up ly said. “I ran the 400-meter and to the captains in the boxing ring 800-meter, which is convenient during his freshman year, he said because it is one to two minutes he has a role model for his profes­of endurance training, much like sional career. Dr. Tom Dooley went boxing.” to the same high school as Lally 
His personality fit well with the before going to Notre Dame, and sport, too. then became a doctor who worked 
“I am a competitive individual in the jungles of Laos and served so when I really just wanted to try those who could not afford basic something new, I heard it was fun health care. and it would keep me in shape,” “He dedicated himself to the Lally said. “It is much easier to health and well-being of others push yourself physically when and I hope I can do something there is a competition involved.” similar to that in my career,” Lally 
While Lally has been successful said. in the ring, he realizes his role as Thinking big picture, Lally rec-a captain goes beyond the score-ognizes how special the opportu­card decision at the end of the day. nity to participate in Bengal Bouts 

By BRENDAN BELL knowing the sport and having two A part of his reason for continu-As a captain, he said he sees the has been. Sports Writer years of experience.” ing to fight, Lally said, was the en-true value in being a Notre Dame “Boxing at Notre Dame has been That experience has helped couragement from captains dur-boxer. such a blessing. It has enabled me 
Junior captain Jack Lally re-Lally continue to win this year, de-ing his freshman year. “With that experience and the to befriend and enjoy the company turned from studying in London feating senior James Doan in the “I looked up to those senior and role as a captain comes respon-of some of the best people I know,” last semester with a greater sense quarterfinals and junior Joe Deck-junior captains and talked to them sibility,” Lally said. “I had never Lally said. “Boxing at Notre Dame of focus, as well as a different per-er in the semifinals of the 133 lbs. about it and they said just keep done an individual sport before calls for people to commit to some­spective on boxing thanks to his division. Though he has met great coming in, shadow boxing, get-boxing, but at the same time there thing greater than themselves. new role as a leader. success in the ring over his three ting in the ring and eventually is a very strong team element to “Being a captain is an honor, but 
“Coming back, everyone else years in Bengal Bouts, Lally said the skills start compounding and this program. I’m training for big-we all realize that being a captain was already in full stride,” Lally he did not initially have a great in-building up,” he said. ger things.” is a position of service,” Lally said. said. “It was a matter of getting terest in the sport of boxing. Lally humbly admitted his suc-Lally said being a captain this “I went to a Jesuit high school and used to how things work. All of a “It seemed like it was just yes-cess during his novice year, win-year helped him realize the club’s we always say that we strive to be sudden I come back from being terday I was learning the sport, ning the 124-pound catch-weight “greater capacity for good.” men for others. Bengal Bouts has abroad and have different position and there was a time I contem-division. In his sophomore year, he “At first, it’s about the box-probably been the greatest high-as a captain.” plated quitting boxing freshman moved up to the 134-pound divi-ing and staying in shape and the light of my Notre Dame experience 
Lally, a resident of Keough Hall year,” Lally said. “Boxing is one of sion and won his weight class once pushups and it’s about you,” he because it has enhanced my de­from Saint Louis, Mo., says that his the most difficult sports to learn again. said. “This boxing club, though, is sire to be a man for others.” past experience has made the ad-because it is such a great mix of “Sophomore year was a 100 unlike any other club in the coun-Jack Lally will look to claim his justment back to Bengal Bouts in attributes. percent commitment to make my-try because of the teamwork we third straight Bengal Bouts cham­the spring semester easier. “It is unbelievable how much self as good as I could get,” Lally promote and the fundraising mis-pionship as he takes on junior 
“I was at first nervous about goes into being a good boxer.  It said. “In boxing, you really have to sion of our program. Niels Seim in the 133 lbs. final Sat-this year, being away for so long is tough to develop those skills as focus a lot on every single aspect. “Those two aspects came to the urday night. and coming back,” Lally said. “But a novice, and it just takes time. It isn’t a sport where you can go forefront and I realized that I’m it was also nice coming in and There are so many ways you can from 4:30 to 6 and then do what-not boxing for me, I’m boxing to Contact Brendan Bell at knowing what I am capable of, improve, though.” ever else you want the rest of the set an example, help develop those bbell2@nd.edu 


page 8 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 2, 2012 


Ortenzio serves as co-president in his final Bouts 


By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
For a right-handed fighter like senior co-president Kevin Orten­zio, the jab — the fundamental punch in the sport of boxing — is thrown with the left hand. Thus, it would be seemingly impossible to fight without a left arm. 
For Ortenzio, this reality hits close to home, as his boxing ca­reer was almost brought to a screeching halt before it even started. 
As a high school freshman, Ortenzio was hospitalized with a bacterial infection known as Methicillin-resistant Staphylo­coccus aureus (MRSA). The bac­teria cause something similar to a staph infection but, as the name suggests, are resistant to many commonly-used antibiot­ics. In Ortenzio’s case, things got so bad that he was days away from having his arm amputated. 
Ortenzio, an avid high school wrestler, eventually survived the perilous situation and used it as a learning experience. 
“After I recovered, I used what I learned from [the experience] to take that move forward and keep going on with life,” Orten­zio said. “And that’s what I did with my wrestling season and with my schoolwork.” 
Now seven years removed from the scare, Ortenzio is in full control of his left arm every time he unleashes a quick jab. How­ever, that hasn’t stopped him from realizing just how blessed he is, Ortenzio said. 
“God has blessed me with good health up to this point and I thank him each day for the doc­tors that were there seven years ago,” Ortenzio said. “[I] feel so blessed and now I try to take ad­vantage of it and make the most of it because you never know when the opportunities will go away. You never know when you could lose an arm or be sick or very ill.” 
Ortenzio has certainly made the most of his opportunities through his four years of partici­pating in Bengal Bouts. 
As a freshman, Ortenzio won his preliminary fight before get­ting eliminated in the quarter­finals by one of the then-senior captains. During his sophomore campaign Ortenzio made it all the way to the finals before los­ing by split decision to then-senior Kieran Bulger. Last year as a junior captain, Ortenzio took the next step and won the 148-pound division champion­ship. 
Ortenzio is hoping to defend his title this year and got the ball rolling in the quarterfinals with a victory over junior Alex Calderon. Despite the unani­mous decision, Ortenzio said he saw some room for improvement in the fight. 
“That fight went very well but I still have a few things to work on,” Ortenzio said. “[Calderon] put in all three rounds against me. I was able to stick it to him in the end but we both had fun and he landed a couple good blows at me. So it’s something I need to work on for [the semifinals].” 
In addition to the boxing side of things, Ortenzio has become more involved with the service aspect of the club both as a ju­nior captain and a co-president. The native of Siegfried Hall and Camp Hill, Penn., had the op­portunity to travel to Bangla­desh last summer and see first­hand where the Bengal Bouts proceeds were going. Ortenzio said the experience, organized through the International Sum­mer Service Learning Program, has changed his outlook on the boxing club. 
“Through that experience I knew my mission for being part of this club,” Ortenzio said. “My sole intent of going to practice and working out with the guys and doing the whole fundrais­ing aspect has really changed. It used to be something really competitive — boxing one-on­one you think of it as being the whole intense thing — which it still is, but it’s a lot different per­spective now.” 
That perspective includes the realization that he is in a tre­mendous position to provide charitable service to those in need, Ortenzio said. 
“Being so blessed here — not only health-wise, but also finan­cially and being from a great na­tion like the United States and with a great family and every­thing — the first thing I want to do is give back,” Ortenzio said. “Not only that, but I can discover what others are going through and just realize that my life here is not the only life.” 
During his time in Bangla­desh, Ortenzio realized the con­nection between boxing in South Bend and helping others in Ban­gladesh, he said. 
“It’s through the level of train­ing and the commitment you make to this program and the time you commit which is, spiri­tually speaking, the whole suf­fering aspect,” Ortenzio said. “That sort of translates well for me as I apply it to the Ban­gladesh setting. I witnessed all those people and even though they’re suffering, they’re suffer­ing all together and they’re hap­py doing it. They appreciate the small things which is the same thing here — you appreciate the small things like ‘I landed a pretty good jab today.’” 
Fortunately, Ortenzio still has his left arm for all those jabs. 
Ortenzio will face sophomore Ben Eichler in the finals Satur­day. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


 

The Observer online coverage VIDEO • LIVE BLOGGING OF FINALS • GALLERIES • COMMENTARY ndsmcobserver.com  



