

SMC and ND collaborate on PADs project 
13 College students 


University evaluates cooperate to stop 
reliability of Paper drug  counterfeiting 

Analytical Device 

By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
Saint Mary’s Editor News Writer 
In the lab students call “the 

The hunt for counterfeit dungeon” of Saint Mary’s 
drugs in third world coun-Science Hall, 13 women are 
tries has found an ally in Notre working to help those liv-
Dame junior Kellie Raddell. ing in third-world countries, 
Raddell is currently hard at one Paper Analytical Device 
work with the Paper Analytical (PAD) at a time. 
Device (PAD) program to help Liz Bajema, professional 
put a stop to counterfeit drug specialist on the PADs project 
trafficking. and a Saint Mary’s alumna, 
Raddell is working with a re-said the group aims to help 
search team of students head-detect the sale of counterfeit 
ed by Notre Dame professor drugs including Panadol (Ac-
Marya Lieberman and Saint etaminophen), anti-malarial 
Mary’s professor Toni Barstis. drugs and antibiotics in third 
Raddell said counterfeit drugs world countries. 
are a serious problem in third­“The whole project kind of 
world countries. started with this problem of 
“Companies make lots of counterfeit drugs,” she said. 
money selling these counter­“People are counterfeiting 
feit drugs in third world coun­drugs in developing countries Photo courtesey of Toni Barstis tries,” she said. “By the time we 
Dr. Toni Barstis, right, and SMC junior Diana Vega Pantoja work on creating the Paper Ana-see PADS/page 4 lytical Device (PAD) that helps detect counterfit Panadol, anti-malarial drugs and antibiotics. see RESEARCH/page 5 


Financial expert to speak on investing strategy 
By SAM STRYKER “I think in this digital age, Cortes said the guiding prin-is I believe China, which most … in the world are going to News Editor the dangers of group-think are ciple behind his book is to not of the world thinks is the next be growth stories in coming more prevalent than ever, par-hold steadfast to commonly ac-great emerging power and will years and coming decades,” he For students looking to make ticularly in cepted financial wisdom. soon eclipse the United States said. “It is almost this accepted 
serious dough through invest-f i n a n c i a l 
“The book is a tutorial in con-in many ways, is a false notion,” truth.” ments, one financial expert markets, ” 
trarian thinking in markets,” he he said. “I believe if anything Additionally, Cortes said will give his advice today: in Cortes said. 
said. “By contrarian, I mean be-China is a very dangerous place young investors are often ex-the Internet era, you need to go “I think so­
ing willing to buck conventional to invest, it is a very unstable posed to the misconception that against the grain. cial media 
wisdom as espoused by Wall country, and I am very bearish heavily investing in stocks is a Steve Cortes, a frequent on-in particular 
Street and the financial media.” from an investing standpoint.” sure-fire method for financial air contributor for CNBC’s “Fast has fostered 
Cortes also recommended For young investors, Cortes success. Money,” is speaking today in the a greater 
against investing in China, de-said steering away from these “From an investing stand-Mendoza Jordan Auditorium at susceptibil-spite the popular notion that the seemingly promising markets is point, I believe Wall Street has 6 p.m. He will discuss his new ity to false country will become a world su-an advisable move. also [emphasized] too high a book, “Against The Herd — Six n o t i o n s perpower. “I think that academia, like percentage in stocks. It is too Contrarian Investment Strate-quickly becoming accepted as “My most provocative theme, Wall Street, is incredibly as­gies You Should Follow.” conventional wisdom.” what I lead with in the book, sured that emerging markets see CORTES/page 5 


Valentine’s Day celebrated with sonnets 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
The Great Hall of O’Shaughnessy was full of love Tuesday — love, and lovers of Shakespeare. 
In a celebration of Valentine’s Day, nearly 100 members of the Notre Dame community read aloud each of Shakespeare’s 154 sonnets in succession from 11 
a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Scott Jackson, executive di­rector of Shakespeare at Notre Dame, said the annual Sonnet Fest is meant to reach students across disciplines, helping them find modern-day relevance in Shakespeare’s words. 
“The sonnets were meant to be written down, obviously, but still the ideas that are contained in there can be hard to decipher if you just read them off the page and don’t hear a voice bring them to life,” he said. 
Jackson said by having all of Shakespeare’s sonnets recited in one place, at one time, his words become easier to understand. 
“There’s something about hearing another person speak those words and impart their own emotions to it that … makes it a lot more accessible to some­one,” Jackson said. “In a way [during the] Sonnet Fest you all of a sudden are aware that the things Shakespeare is writing about are completely relevant to society today.” 

Sonnets were read Tuesday in eight different languages: Span­ish, Italian, French, Latin, Morse code, Russian and Parseltongue 
— the “language of snakes” from the “Harry Potter” series. 
Sophomore Mary Prokop, an English and Italian major, read two sonnets in Italian. 
“I thought I might as well 

see SONNET/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Bike shop remains closed page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u ‘Stuff’ Notre Dame students say page 8u Women’s basketball defeats Providence page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Wednesday, February 15, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S YOUR FAVORITE PLACE TO BE ON CAMPUS? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sam Stryker Matthew DeFranks Anna Boarini Joe Wirth Ann Marie Brian Hartnett Jakubowski Scene Graphics Mary Claire Lisa Hoeynck O’Donnell Photo Viewpoint Thomas La Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 41 HIGH 35 HIGH                   38 HIGH                 44 HIGH                 38 HIGH                34 


Angela Lake  Elizabeth Murphy  Kathryn Murphy  Leon Zhou  Matt Kowalski  Nick Taylor  
sophomore  freshman  junior  senior  freshman  sophomore  
Breen-Phillips  McCandless  McGlinn  Stanford  St. Edward’s  St. Edward’s  
“Starbucks”  “Band building”  “BK Lounge”  “My bed”  “The library”  “The Grotto”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Fugitive runs out of gas, calls sheriff for assistance 
EVANSTON, Wyo. — A 59-year-old fugitive is back behind bars after he ran out of gas in Wyoming and called the local sheriff’s of­fice for roadside assistance. 
The Wyoming Highway Patrol said Tuesday that Richard Vincent of Prin­eville, Ore., was wanted in Georgia for violating parole on a murder and escape conviction. 
Vincent called the Uinta (YOO’-ihn-tah) County Sher­iff’s Office sent state troop­ers to help him out. When they learned that Vincent had an outstanding felony warrant from Atlanta, he was taken into custody. 
Vincent is now being held for Georgia authorities pending extradition. 

Car theft suspect held after LA roof standoff 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. — A suspect in an auto theft was arrested Thursday after a bizarre five-hour standoff on the rooftops of a West­wood neighborhood. 
Police SWAT members finally climbed the roof of a home and peppered the man with bean-bag ammu­nition. 
That persuaded him to scramble over to a truck mounted ramp, and he was lowered to the ground and handcuffed, Officer Karen Rayner said. The suspect’s name was not immediately released. 
No one was seriously in­jured during the confronta­tion, which began around 8 
a.m. when police began fol­lowing a reportedly stolen Toyota Camry. 
After a short chase, the driver stopped, ran and climbed onto a roof east of the University of California, Los Angeles, police said. 
The standoff was broad­cast live throughout the morning from a KTTV-TV news helicopter that showed the man hopping from roof­top to rooftop of several homes as police flooded the neighborhood. 
No homes were evacu­ated. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
A graduate student workshop titled “For the Busy Graduate Student: Company, Industry, and Market Data” will be held in the lower level of the Mendoza College of Busi­ness from noon to 1:30 
p.m. today. 
A lecture, “Ethics in the Financial Marketplace” will be held in the Giovani­ni Commons of the Mendo­za College of Business from 

12:30 to 1:30 p.m. today. 
A colloquium titled “Or­der, Fluctuations, and New Frontiers in Quantum Ma­terials” will be given by Dr. James Analytis in 118 Nieuwland from 4 to 5 p.m. 
The Notre Dame men’s basketball team takes on Rutgers in the Purcell Pa­vilion at the Joyce Center tonight at 7 p.m. 
The film ‘The Interrupt­ers’ will be shown tonight at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets cost $3-6. 
A conversation about “Wealth Inequality in the US: Lessons from Latin America” will be held to­night at 7 p.m. in the Ged­des Hall Library. Coffee and cookies will be pro­vided. 
National Book Award winner Jaimy Gordon will deliver a reading tonight at 7:30 p.m. as part of the Notre Dame Literary Festi­val. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 

LOW 35 LOW 37 LOW  29 LOW                  29 LOW 25 LOW                 26 
Wednesday, February 15, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




Notre Dame bicycle shop remains closed 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Campus bike enthusiasts will have to pedal on without the Notre Dame Bike Shop, which closed last semester for the foreseeable future. However, student bike technicians said they are working hard to re­open in a new location. 
Phillip Johnson, director of Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP), said the shop’s garage in the Old Security Building was reallocated in December to support a growing need for ac­ademic space on campus. NDSP cannot run the program with­out the garage, he said. 
Johnson said the bike shop’s services started small and ex­panded gradually. 
“A number of years ago, NDSP was involved in making minor repairs to abandoned bikes that were auctioned at the be­ginning of the school year,” he said. “Over time, students came to ask for minor repairs.” 
Sophomore Chris Glueck, a student employee, said the shop provided free bicycle repair services for students, faculty and staff. The shop supplied la­bor and used parts from aban­doned bikes, which are now recycled rather than auctioned. 
“It’s repairs that would cost people a hundred dollars that we do for free. We also [gave] advice on bikes to buy and reg­ister them,” he said. “We [had] a high success rate.” 
Glueck said student bike tech­nicians have worked with the Office of Sustainability to pro­mote the use of bikes for com­muting and the reopening of a bike repair garage on campus. 
Rachel Novick, education and outreach program manager with the Office of Sustainabil­ity, said the University supports biking for its carbon-free mode of transportation and reduction of local air pollution. She said the Bike Shop provided an im­portant service to the campus community. 
“Every biker needs an occa­sional tune-up for both perfor­mance and safety, and the bike shop has enabled countless stu­dents, faculty and staff mem­bers to keep their bikes in top form,” she said. “We hope that a new home can be found for it in the near future.” 
Johnson said he is not certain the Bike Shop will reopen as it is not part of NDSP’s core cam­pus safety services, but he said he realizes how important it is to the Notre Dame campus. 
“This will depend on what space is available and who might be in the best position to operate the shop,” Johnson said. “We see the value in bik­ing … It’s healthy and supports sustainability.” 
Glueck said ideally the shop would reopen in a new garage or move into an existing unused space on campus. He said he hopes the shop will open in the near future to further provide services for students and their bikes. 
“All we want is a place to put our tools and somewhere to check into. We’re looking for a new home and we do good work,” Glueck said. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 




Dining halls add Korean food 
By LISA SLOMKA 
News Writer 

Notre Dame students looking to expand their culinary horizons can now try a taste of Korean cui­sine in the dining hall. 
Following the successful introduction of specialty days like Mediterranean night and the Pho soup bar, Notre Dame Food Ser­vices (NDFS) launched a new line of specialty foods that features authentic Korean dishes. North Din­ing Hall kicked off the new concept in January and South Dining Hall fol­lowed suit last week. The dishes are served on a 12­day rotating schedule in both dining halls. 
Marc Poklinkowski, gen­eral manager of South Dining Hall, said the con­cept for the new line came from positive student re­ception to other specialty meals. 
“The basis of this came from students originally suggesting that we have things like Indian day and Mediterranean day,” he said. 
NDFS considers input from two yearly surveys in launching new food lines, Poklinkowski said. 
“They’re usually right after each of the breaks,” he said. “When we looked back at what students had suggested we saw a lot of students asking why we didn’t have more ethnic foods, which is what led to the Mediterranean and In­dian cuisine days.” 
Poklinkowski said rath­er than schedule these specialty meals more often, NDFS decided to explore op­tions for a new type of cui­sine to serve to students. 

“With both of those days being such big hits, we re­alized that we didn’t want to repeat them, otherwise they’d get boring,” he said. “We decided to try and do something else.” 
Poklinkowski said the idea for Korean cuisine came from NDFS executive chef Don Miller. 
“After I asked him for ideas, he asked if I’d ever thought about Korean food,” he said. “He said it’s really picking up and getting pop­ular.” 
Poklinkowski said Miller met with various Korean students on campus to dis­cuss what dishes should be offered and how to authen­tically prepare them. Miller then prepared a presenta­tion of traditional cuisine. 
“He put together a show for us [with] about eight different recipes. He had the kimchi there, these two cold salads that we now use, and he also did the crepes for us,” Poklinkowski said. “From there we got a kind of good idea of how we could adapt it to our dining halls.” 
Tina Aalfs Baker, opera­tions manager of North Din­ing Hall, said the new offer­ings may not appeal to all palates. 
“It’s a matter of personal taste and preference. For some guests, it may not be their cup of tea,” she said. “For others, it is a change of scenery, something new to try.” 
Poklinkowski said the new dishes have been received well at South Dining Hall. 
“The first day went really well,” he said. “We did I be­lieve close to 500 crepes at lunch and over 1,200 crepes at dinner. We’re always glad whenever something’s that popular when we start off.” 
Poklinkowski said the in­troduction of Korean day is not the only change coming to the dining halls. Dur­ing Lent, South Dining Hall is will prepare new menu items including a new Sea­food Newburg dish and a make-your-own baked pota­to bar in the Pan-American section, he said. 
“We never want to see students making rounds around the food options a few times without finding anything to eat,” he said. “We’re looking to give them more options.” 

Contact Lisa Slomka at lslomka@nd.edu 



page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, February 15, 2012 


College to perform ‘Puss in Boots’ opera 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Dancing animals and a love story will be on stage this weekend at Saint Mary’s College as students and the music department put on a production of Xavier Montsalvage’s “El Gato con Botas.” 
Sophomore Jessica Biek, performer and member of the backstage crew, said the opera, known in Eng­lish as “Puss in Boots,” is sure to please audiences. 
“[Puss in Boots] is a short opera with a never dull moment,” she said. “It is very fun­ny and en­dearing.” 

“Puss and Boots is a 
Laurel the student Thomas, short opera with a never performers chair of dull moment. It is very have stepped the Saint funny and endearing” up to the Mary’s mu-challenge. sic depart-“I think 
Laurel Thomas 
ment and my favor-
music department chair 
director of ite 
the produc­tion, said the opera should appeal to a wide range of ages. 
“The performance will be entertaining for adults as well as young children,” she said. 
Thomas said the perfor­mance is filled with twists and turns that will keep the audience captivated. She said the opera has a colorful cast of characters. 
“In ‘Puss in Boots,’ the third son of a poor miller inherits nothing but a cat when his father dies,” she said. “The story involves rabbits, beautiful danc­ing by a lion, parrots and a mouse, a glamorous ogre and true love.” 
Biek said while the per­formance may take its form in an adult medium, the content is jovial enough to amuse young audiences. 
“This is sung elegantly like an opera, but there’s childlike play in it that adds humor,” she said. 
Thomas said the opera is distinctive in several as­pects. 
“The opera is completely sung, and the inclusion of a lot of dance makes this op­era unique,” Thomas said. “Also unique [is that the production features] two music majors who are also serious about dance stud­ies and capable of doing the dancing in the show.” 
Biek said she initially signed on to assist with backstage work but soon found out she had an ad­ditional role to master. 
“I was originally told I would just do backstage crew,” she said. “I did not have to audition. But I end­ed up being [cast as] an extra in the queen’s court so I got a costume and ev­erything.” 
Thomas said balancing onstage and backstage duties presents a unique challenge for performers. 
“The cast has had to take on backstage responsibili­ties when they aren’t per­forming, and it is difficult as a performer to have your focus split in this way,” she said. 
Thomas said cast mem­bers were challenged with learning their lines and choreography in a short period of time, especial­ly since some took on new roles after the audition process. 
“We only began rehears­ing for the opera at the beginning of this semes­ter, a very tight rehearsal process to mount an opera, even a one-act like ‘Puss in Boots,’ she said. “The time crunch has been most dif­ficult for us, as well as the fact that this is an incred­ibly busy semester in the scene shop.” 
Despite the challenges of casting, backstage work 
and time 
limitations, 
Thomas said 
 aspect 
of this proj­
ect is seeing 
such young students rise to the chal­lenge of performing an op­era for the first time, and seeing that they recognize their abilities,” she said. 
“Puss in Boots” will be performed in the Little Theater of the Moreau Cen­ter for the Arts on Thurs­day and Friday at 7:30 p.m. and again on Saturday at 
2:30 p.m. Tickets are free for students. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 

PADs 
continued from page 1 
like crazy.” 

Toni Barstis, a chemistry and physics professor, said she considered the detri­mental affects of counter­feiting when she developed the idea for the PADs project with Notre Dame faculty. 
The project began with what Barstis called “a little bit of serendipity and a lot of 
student interest.” She said this past summer was cru­cial in the development of PADs. 
“The summer of 2011 was really productive because we put together a provi­sional patent application for these PADs and now we’re working toward patent­ing it,” she said. “Actually, we’ve been looking at how we can distribute it.” 
Bajema said experts esti­mate 10 to 50 percent of all drugs in developing nations are counterfeit. 
“Even 10 percent is a con­cern, because that means one out of every 10 pills is no good, but when you talk about 50 percent, that’s a huge deal,” she said. 
The issue of counterfeit­ing has serious health im­plications, senior project member Teresa Cristarella said. 
“In the most serious cas­es, [counterfeiters] can take dry wall and grind it up into a pill form,” she said. “Not only do victims encounter the problem of not getting the medicine they need in a dire situation … but they could be ingesting wall board, and poisoning them­selves without even know­ing.” 
Junior project member Diana Vega Pantoja said part of the counterfeiting issue is perpetrators are hard to track. 
“This is basically the perfect crime, [victims] are drinking the evidence, and you cannot analyze something that is al­ready gone,” she said. 
Despite current efforts by the World Health Organiza­tion to stop counterfeiting, Vega Pantoja said the group has trouble tracking the peo­ple behind the pills. 
“The counterfeit industry is very developed, and just by looking at packaging, that’s not enough,” she said. “We’ve found pictures online on how you can have two very dif­ferent medicines in the same packaging, with the same labeling and the same holo­grams, but the contents of the medicine are so different.” 
Bajema said PADs are a more effective system of iden­tifying counterfeit medicine than the method of tracking labels. 
“The idea is, you take a pill and you swipe it on a line on the PAD, and you dip the PAD in water up to an indicated line,” Bajema said. “Then, water soaks up into the vari­ous lanes of the PAD, and the lanes turn different colors de­pending on what chemicals or constituents are in the pill.” 
The PADs are equipped with reagents useful in de­tecting vitamin C, starch, chalk, and other ingredients commonly used in counterfeit drugs. Cristarella said the in­clusion of these ingredients is dangerous in two ways.
 “You’re not getting the medicine you need to get bet­ter, but you think you are, be­cause you start feeling better with a boost of Vitamin C,” she said. “You start feeling better, but it never tackles the underlying problem.” 
This misleading feeling of wellness can become a mat­ter of life and death in certain cases, Bajema said. 
“It becomes a more life-threatening problem when we’re talking about some­thing like anti-malarial drugs or antibiotics,” she said. 
Vega Pantoja said the PADs team has enlisted the help of computer scientists in solving the issue of reading the colors on the device. 
“What looks green to you could look blue to me, and col­or plays a huge role in the test when determining whether a drug is real or fake,” she said. “What we found was that the color perception of those not familiar with the PADs was way off.” 
Vega Pantoja said this prob­lem has been solved with a program that reads each channel and compares the re­sults to a database of previ­ously established colors. 
Bajema said the team now is looking to enlist the help of students, who can conduct the 30-second tests regard­less of whether they have any scientific background. Notre Dame’s Breen-Phillips Hall will host the next test this Sunday. 
“Now we want to bring it out to the rest of the people on campus,” she said. “We’re hoping to get 500 participants from both campuses through­out the month of February to run field tests of the PADs project.” 
Barstis said these tests come when the project is at a critical point of progress. 
“This will be really cru­cial in terms of us knowing if this is a realistic thing for us to send out to third world countries,” Barstis said. “We need as many people as we can get.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, February 15, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 

Cortes 
continued from page 1 
volatile for most people. It’s particularly sold to young peo­ple,” he said. “Wall Street has oversold to the investing public, especially young investors. The grave exposure to equity stock should be relatively small.” 
For undergraduates looking to enter the business world, Cortes said the ability to learn is more important than field of study. 
“I think the most impor­tant thing is it’s not what you are learning as an undergrad, whether it’s art history or you’re a business major,” he said. “It’s far more about learn­ing how to learn.” 
Additionally, Cortes said en­tering into a business-related career is challenging due to the government’s increased regu­lation of Wall Street. 
“I wouldn’t dissuade anyone 


Sonnet 
continued from page 1 
bring the Notre Dame commu­nity Shakespeare in Italian,” she said. 
Prokop said she enjoyed stop­ping by the Sonnet Fest and lis­tening to fellow students’ inter­pretations of the sonnets. 
“I’m loving the atmosphere,” Prokop said. “It’s great to see other Notre Dame students appreciating the greatness of Shakespeare’s words, and I think it’s a very fitting celebra­tion of Valentine’s Day.” 
Senior Kevin Barsaloux, a Film, Television and Theatre major, read two sonnets Mon­day afternoon. He said the Son­net Fest was a great opportuni­ty to share his appreciation for who has a passion, because you are going to do it anyways,” he said. “If you are interested in Wall Street for what it was, it is going to be a very different and a much tougher place go­ing forward.” 
A self-proclaimed “subway alum” with many family mem­bers who have attended the University, Cortes he nearly at­tended Notre Dame, but chose Georgetown University. 
“I would have gone to Notre Dame if I had been better at football,” he said. “It broke my mother’s heart that I didn’t go there.” 
After attending a Jesuit-af­filiated university, Cortes said Catholic business principles are important to him. While his book is not written from a mor­al or political perspective, he said applying these principles to investing strategies is one of the ways he recognizes invest­ing in China as an area of risk. 
“I do believe one of the rea­sons China is a dangerous place economically in terms of markets is because of the in­credibly unethical way the gov­ernment treats the people,” he said. “It has not has become a force of innovation and inven­tion. I think one of the reasons, to tie it all in a grand way to Catholic principles, is because the government is so limiting on thought and expression.” 
A Chicago native, Cortes said through interacting with Notre Dame alumni, he recognizes Notre Dame produces gradu­ates unlike any other school. 
“Notre Dame takes [its Catholic identity seriously] other great institutions don’t have the faith aspect and they don’t have the sports aspect,” he said. “I think because they don’t have those, they don’t have the kind of life-long iden­tity and spirit and cohesiveness that is certainly evident among Notre Dame grads.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


the Bard. 
“Well I love Shakespeare for one, and I’m actually in a class where we’re studying Shake­speare’s text and techniques,” Barsaloux said. “It’s a lot of fun, I love this stuff.” 
The first Sonnet Fest took place in 2010, and has now be­come a Valentine’s Day tradi­tion, Jackson said. 
“I never try to do anything the same way twice,” Jackson said. “So there’s been differ­ent focuses on each of the last events … I think that each year we’ve had a few more partici­pants.” 
He said the Great Hall was an appropriate space to hold the festival because so many stu­dents walk through it during the day, and might stop to grab a cookie and enjoy a sonnet or two. 
“There’s a certain theat­ricality [of the Great Hall] to begin with, and secondly, it’s the center of the College,” Jack­son said. “There’s such a flow of students in and out of that space over the course of this event.” 
Jackson said over the course of the day, students from the local Montessori school, Notre Dame freshmen through se­niors, graduate students, fac­ulty and staff recited sonnets. 
“Students who might not otherwise engage [with Shake­speare] suddenly find them­selves having a good time,” Jackson said. “That’s really the point of the whole event, to have students engage with Shake­speare across disciplines.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 



Research 
continued from page 1 
test if the drugs are real, the dealers have already changed the names and packaging.” 
The PADs program works efficiently to detect certain in­gredients in counterfeit drugs rather than identifying by la­bels, Raddell said. 
“You put [a salt pad] in wa­ter, and in three to five min­utes you know what’s in the drug and if it’s effective,” she said. “We’re testing to see if there are specific chemicals in the drugs.” 
Raddell said this new meth­od of detecting counterfeit drugs is the most cost-effective developed to date. 
“PADs allows for quick diag­noses,” she said. “Chemicals move up with the water, and the paper will turn blue at the top if the chemicals wanted are present.” 
Raddell, who has been work­ing on the project since said. “This factory makes salt supplemented with iodine and diethylcarbamazine citrate, and they don’t have access to the tools and instruments that we would normally use to car­ry out chemical analysis.” 
Lieberman said she expects the program to move even fur­ther forward once the PADs are tested for reliability and repeatability. She said after field tests at Notre Dame, the group plans to expand its work into the African continent. 
“We will be working with three pharmacists with the AMPATH (Academic Model for the Prevention and Treatment of HIV) program at Moi Uni­versity Teaching and Research Hospital to implement field tests in Kenya in summer 2012 and 2013,” she said. “We will be testing three types of anti­biotics, two artemisinin com­bination therapy drugs and an analgesic.” 
Raddell said a large group of students and faculty has been hard at work to ensure the 
success of the 
program. 

last  summer,  “This research is a  “C u r r e n t - 
said her ex­perience with PADs has been invalu­able to her career aspi­ great way to take the skills I learn in the classroom and go out and apply them to a real world setting.”  ly, there are about twenty to thirty peo­ple working on this proj­ect. Research  
rations.  is done in the  
“This  re- Kellie Raddell  Stepan Hall of  
search is a great way to  junior  Science and in St. Mary’s  
take the skills  science build- 
I learn in the  ing,” she said.  

classroom and go out and ap-“We also have one large group ply them to a real world set-meeting once a week.” ting,” she said. Even with a large number of 
The PADs program has students working on the proj­crossed borders to the island ect, Raddell said the project is nation of Haiti, Lieberman far from over. said. She said the PADs proj-“We need to run five hun­ect got involved in Haiti at the dred of each test by the end of behest of biology professor Fr. February … We need to know Tom Streit. if it’s effective before sending it 
“Fr. Streit came by to talk to out into the field.” me about some quality control problems that the Bon Sel fac-Contact Carolyn Hutyra at tory in Haiti was having,” she chutyra@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, February 15, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Truck Day 
If there’s anything good about late winter, it’s the streak of minor holidays that fall from February to mid-March. We get weather prognostication from a groundhog, heart-
shaped candy, an opportunity to blow off steam before Lent starts and an excuse to blow off Lent when St. Patrick’s Day rolls around just three weeks later. 
But last Saturday 



we passed another day even less impor­tant and even more contrived, which automatically makes it the best minor holiday of the season by far. That’s right 
— I’m talking about Truck Day. 

For those of you who aren’t baseball fans or follow a team whose fan base is infinitely saner than Red Sox Nation, Truck Day is the glorious morning when the Red Sox equipment crew fills a mov­ing van with the stuff that’s been laying around the ballpark all winter and sends it off to the spring training complex in Florida. 
While every major league team has to send its equipment to Florida or Arizona before Spring Training starts, my own perfunctory Google search indicated Boston is the only city where fans show up to watch a scene nearly indistinguish­able from a typical Tuesday at the loading docks of a Sports Authority. 
Maybe there are people who are excited to see Tupperware containers of uniforms loaded onto a truck, but I doubt anyone is really all that interested in the cargo. The truth is for anyone who spends six months of the year enthralled by baseball and the next six enclosed in a near-permanent freeze (and I’m includ­ing myself in that group along with the populace of Boston), the first reminder that spring actually does exist is pretty darn welcome by this point in February. 
I know that the prospect of a new baseball season shouldn’t make me quite as happy as it does. Last year’s team was already giving me heartburn after three games (starting the season 0-6 can have that effect on fans.) 
As for the September collapse for the ages, let me just say I am truly thankful to my Yankee-supporting friends who were so concerned for my mental well­being they didn’t mention it in too much. (To those who did rub it in: your team didn’t win the World Series, either, so I don’t want to hear it.) Basically, this team has put me in more bad moods over the past few years than anything else, includ­ing finals week and malfunctioning dorm printers. 
But because of Truck Day, all of that is officially in the past. Everybody starts over at 0-0, and we’re free to pretend that any past losing or finger-pointing didn’t really happen, or, at the very least, that it has no effect the current state of affairs. 
Unfortunately. the same rules do not apply in real life, and so my brother continues to complain about every wrong I’ve ever inflicted upon him, starting with the time I kicked him on the playground when has was two. But since we can’t erase the mistakes we’ve made and live in that world with the blissful, mistake­and-blame-free ambience of spring training, we can at least look forward to spring training weather, which I expect to arrive here in South Bend by May 15. Until then, happy belated Truck Day. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at  vjacobse@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
What’s the point of miracles? 
In these first weeks of Ordinary Time, we have been reading from the early chapters of Mark’s Gospel. These chapters are often predominated by the early miracles of Jesus — the exor­cism of the man with an unclean Fr. Lou DelFra spirit, the heal­ing of a leper, Faithpoint the raising of the centurion’s daughter. They are, by definition, astounding miracles — but just barely, at least as Mark recounts them. That is to say, Mark unfurls the miracles (“Demon, come out of that man,” “Go, show yourself to the priest and be clean,” “Get the girl something to eat”) but in each case concludes with a most unexpected and severely underwhelming line, “Go home, and tell no one about this.” 
Indeed, immediately after the exor­cism of the possessed man, Mark’s focus shifts abruptly away from the miracle to the subject of Jesus’ teach­ing authority. The healed man virtual­ly vanishes into thin air, as the crowd asks, “What is this? A new teaching with authority.” The miracle is awe-in­spiring, Mark suggests, but is really at the service of an even more important revelation (though the exorcised man may wish to argue this point). 
The “Messianic secret” — Jesus’ re­curring command “Don’t tell anyone” 
— is an important theme throughout Mark’s Gospel, as Jesus’ first miracles excite the towns of Galilee to near fever pitch and draw larger and larger crowds to gather. With every miracle Jesus performs, he asks, pleads and demands that the person healed, and the witnesses to the miracle, to not tell anyone about it. 

Clearly, Jesus is reluctant to be over-identified with his miracles, or to be reduced to a mere “wonder-worker.” In fact, this seems to be one of Mark’s larger themes in the early chapters of his Gospel; the miracles of Jesus are but a revelation of something even more important. And we, the reader of these miracles, are left to wrestle with the question posed by the crowd after Jesus’ first miracle: “What is this?” That is, “What is the revelation that’s even greater than the miracle?” (Later, at Caesarea Philippi, Jesus will bring this question to a head, as he asks his disciples, “Who do people say that I am? And you, who do you say that I am?”) Perhaps it is the raising of this question, less than the miracles themselves, that is the point of Jesus’ early wonders. 
As we know, there will be moments in our life of intense goodness, liberation, healing and “miracles.” We experience a much-wanted success in a class or in a relationship. An interview or job a senior wants comes through; someone sick in our families is healed; we feel joy or intimacy with God in our spiritual life. Yet, Mark warns us we can’t condi­tion our discipleship to Christ based on such moments alone. Why not? 
Because what happens when we don’t get the grade we wanted or the relation­ship doesn’t work out? What happens when we, or one of our friends, do not get the job? When the family member does not recover physically? When we don’t feel God’s presence powerfully in our spiritual life? If success and “miracles” are our signs that God is present, do these experiences of appar­ent failure signify the absence of God? If you are Mark writing chapter one of a story you know will lead eventually to Calvary and the apparent “failure” of the Cross, the “success” of Jesus’ early miracles must be handled with this reality in mind. And, likewise, Christ is present in our own lives. Do we follow him just so he might perform miracles, remove all obstacles, stress and suffer­ing from our lives? 
On the one hand, our faith tells us God is present at every moment of our lives. On the other hand, the dynamics of conditional love tell us that “God” is only present when we have “done well” or when good things happen. The Gos­pel of Mark decisively challenges this spiritual attitude. Mark is clear through his incessant inclusion of Jesus’ com­mand to “not tell anyone” of the miracle that the main point of the miracle is not the confirmation that God is with us. For Jesus came to reveal this is always true — miracle or not, “the Kingdom of God is in our midst.” Whether Jesus is experiencing the “success” of healing a leper, or the “failure” of hanging from the Cross, God is with him. And the same is true for us. 
So, perhaps the main point of the little miracles in our lives — the moments of triumph, healing, success — is the rais­ing in our hearts of the question: “What is this?” “Who has done this?” “Am I willing to come to know the author of this grace even more deeply … and to risk following him, come what may?” 
This week’s column is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, director of Pastoral Life for ACE and member of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at  delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not  necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Both genders can support Center 
Every year for the past three years, Siegfried Hall’s “Day of Man” has really frustrated me. Certainly, the all-male dorm’s signa­ture charitable event is generous and directs important attention and funds to the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
Raising awareness about the realities faced by those without reliable access to shelter, and supporting an organization which assists them, is admirable. 
What I don’t support, however, is the association of this action with the vague ideal of “manliness.” The slogan “be a man for the homeless” implies that the male person, specifically, the man who is too tough to feel or express discomfort, is uniquely suited to, and best capable of, supporting the patrons of the Center for the Homeless. 
Obviously, both men and women of the ND community can support the Center by donating to today’s Siegfried Hall collection; of course, the men of Siegfried wearing shorts and tees in winter are highlighting the realities of our neighbors whom they are help­ing us to support. 
But let’s not exalt restrictive, gender essentialist ideas in the process. There are two potential rationales behind this act of dress­ing down, because it’s the truth of what many homeless men and women experience. This solidarity in itself is not uniquely manly. 
To identify and commemorate Siegfried’s collective action as an entire “Day of Man” is to “genderize” the act, thus introducing the second possible rationale: that a “real” man can handle, even thrive in, potentially unhealthy and (frankly) painful conditions.
 If the “manliness” of wearing shorts in the cold is based on the notion that “real” men don’t experience (or at least show) pain or weakness, this is further evidence of the need for dialogue on gender in the Notre Dame community. And if the “manliness” of this act is that it highlights the needs of an often-overlooked population and brings people together to help others, then the slogan is misleading and unnecessary. 
This sort of help and solidarity comes from a place beyond gender: it comes from the universal human capacity for compassion, which I hope to see acted upon generously today. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I can think of nothing less pleasurable than a life devoted to pleasure.” 
John D. Rockefeller 
U.S. industrialist, philanthropist 


Monica VanBladel 
senior Farley Hall Feb. 14 
WEEKLY POLL 
How are you? 

“I’m Sexy and I Know It” “I’m Rollin’ Like a Big Shot” “Baby I’m a Firework” “I Found Love in a Hopeless Place” 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Wednesday, February 15, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
‘Everything is true, nothing is permitted’ 
Editor’s note: The following is a transcript of an interview by columnist Joe Wegener with Blake Butler, one of the authors visiting campus for the Notre Dame Literary Festival. 
Joe Wegener: Joe Wegener So, first off, what are you going to Guest Columnist be reading at the Literary Festival? “Nothing, There Is No Year”? 
Blake Butler: No idea. I tend to wait to the last minute to figure out what feels right. Probably the fiction, as reading nonfiction feels weird in the mouth. 
JW: I can dig it. Let’s keep talking fic­tion vs. nonfiction. “Nothing: A portrait of Insomnia” was published this past year by Harper Perennial, your first work of non-fiction. What was the research process like? How did it affect the move­ment and pacing of your writing? I read somewhere you wrote the first draft of “There Is No Year” in about 10 days. This must have been a little different. 
BB: I thought I was going to hate researching because I more like to write out of mood and frenzy of sorts, and I thought that would maybe slow me down. Though I found the process of reading in­tensively about what I was writing about while I was writing about it to be actu­ally very motivating, it provided constant stimulation and spring boarding for the forward progress of the work rather than a thing I had to attend to first. 
With something like sleep as a subject, the research can be found almost any­where; you find references to it in most anything you read, and that made a nice kind of web around the center of the idea. 
I kind of began with what I already knew about insomnia from my own experience and then moved outward from there in whatever direction seemed to intuitively make sense, with some places along the way I knew I wanted to touch. 
I still wrote the book rather quickly, as I still approached it with that same force I apply to fiction, though in both cases pro­ducing an early draft and then sculpting it intensely over time thereafter makes a nice mix of results somewhere between mystery and logic. 
JW: Very cool. I love that you “like to write out of mood and frenzy of sorts.” In another interview, when asked about the spatial format of “There is No Year,” you talked about the “spatial constraints” as sort of shaping the story’s logic and narrative flow. It’s interesting that [in “Nothing”] you moved outward from your own experiences “in whatever direction seemed to intuitively make sense.” In this way, did you feel like you actually had more creative freedom or space with this project? 
BB: I definitely felt having the facts and experiences and emotions and ideas of sleep and consciousness surrounding my progress rather than just walking blindly into whatever sentences I was writing gave me a closer knit but also bigger kind of room to play around in. 
Constraints can be really freeing in this way, in that you don’t have to construct everything from the ground up, as you of­ten do in fiction. I can quote Andy Warhol or mention him and then the book gath­ers the idea of him there, not to mention whatever comes around him. 
The nonfictional body gathers and con­sumes a lot in the process as you are go­ing, I guess I mean, if you approach it the right way, which is certainly encouraging toward making even bigger spaces. 

JW: Big spaces. The “schizo” literature magazine blog of the future, as I like to call it. It’s contributor-driven, wide-rang­ing and totally awesome. What is your role as editor like? Do you try to orient the site (its field of discussion, thought) in certain ways? 
BB: I am glad you see it as “schizo,” that is exactly what I hope for from it, and what feels true. Early on I was active in the site mainly by getting people whose voices I thought would lend themselves well to such a state, mainly writers whose personal blogs I already read which could then feed that energy into the field. 
I still direct the overall feel that way and duck my head in frequently enough to turn things ways I might like, though as a classical “editor” my policy for con­tent is an inversion of an old line: Every­thing is true, nothing is permitted. 
Basically I like for contributors to have total open access and to say things with­out the lens of having to pitch or explain themselves to an editor, or to have that editor wield their ideas on them. It gath­ers a messy mass in that way, often self contradictory, sometimes loud. There are plenty of other places who do the oppo­site, so I’m glad to be in the midst of such. 
JW: The “messy mass” — self-contra­dictory, loud and almost always enter­taining. It’s an awesome site. Talk to me about the trajectory of online literature. Do you see more self-made, blog-popular types like Lin jumping into the main­stream? 
BB: Things are happening, sure. I wouldn’t call it jumping to the main­stream, but more an expansion of the field. It seems obvious the Internet is reshaping the way information is deliv­ered, and therefore how a thing like a book might work and certainly there will be some crossover. 
I don’t know it will change anyone’s tastes, but it will give at least some of them a chance to get confronted with a different way, which is good for people even if they don’t take to it. It seems like this will continue, as will the reverse of the previously large scale author retreat­ing to the small press world. It’s tough to predict what will happen to books five years from now, much less than twenty, but as far as I’m concerned things feel to be shifting, spreading. 
JW: It’ll be interesting to see what kind of literature comes out of that “shift­ing, spreading,” as you put it. So one last question: 
It’s 11 p.m. on Friday night. You get a text message from your main man James Franco. He’s hanging out at a Motel 6 with Leonard Cohen. What happens? 
BB: We watch “Leave It To Beaver” reruns in easy silence. 
Blake Butler is the author of the novel “There is No Year,” the non-fiction memoir “Nothing,” the novella “Ever” and the novel-in-stores “Scorch Atlas.” He edits HTMLGiant, a literature magazine blog, as well as two journals of innovative text, “Lamination Colony” and “No Colony.” He lives in Atlanta. 
Joe Wegener is a senior. He can be reached at jwegener@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Church over society 
Recently, an article titled ‘’The Responsible use of Contra­ception’’ (Feb. 13) was posted in the Viewpoint claiming the Church’s teaching on contraception should be “reassessed” to fit better with the modern view of contraception. The au­thor of this article states “members of the Notre Dame com­munity can do both the Church and the country a service by engaging in humble and honest self-examination.” 
In an act of extreme hubris, this author, a faculty mem­ber, had the audacity to claim to have knowledge that supersedes 2,000 years of church teaching and to suggest the Church should rethink its teaching based on the whims of a generation. This is precisely the reason why the Church should stick to its guns. 
The Church has been around for over 2,000 years and is one of the oldest organizations in the world. Throughout that time, the Church has never been known to waver on its teaching, which is the exact reason it has survived this long. Jesus commissioned the Church to be a lasting beacon, a pillar of truth for the world and you can’t be that by bending to the will of society. The Church is not a part of society, it’s above it; from the moment Jesus gave the keys of the Church to Peter, he gave the Church the authority to make decisions that have moral implications. 
Jesus himself went against many societal values in his day, therefore to think that his Church should be limited by any constraints of a government or a group of people is sim­ply ridiculous. The Church, in the Catechism, states: “(2370) Periodic continence, that is, the methods of birth regulation based on self-observation and the use of infertile periods, is in conformity with the objective criteria of morality” (158). These methods respect the bodies of the spouses, encourage tenderness between them, and favor the education of an au­thentic freedom. In contrast, “every action which, whether in anticipation of the conjugal act, or in its accomplishment, or in the development of its natural consequences, proposes, whether as an end or as a means, to render procreation im­possible is intrinsically evil (159),” and I support it fully. 
Furthermore, I am proud to be a part of a Church that doesn’t bend in response to unfounded criticism but remains the beacon that lights the way to heaven, just as Jesus left it. 
Josh Schultz
                                                            freshman                                                            St. Edwards Hall Feb. 14 
UWIRE 

Tenure breeds lazy lectures, stagnancy 
With the Nevada State budget in a perpetual downward spiral, education has been under at­tack. 
Nevada’s talking heads have proposed every­thing from eliminating extracurriculars (such as sports and music), to redi­recting all operational costs Tara Verderosa (which normally pays for building maintenance and The Nevada electricity bills). Sagebrush 
Student-teacher ratios have reached unrealistic proportions, and schools can no longer accommodate the masses they try to seat. 
As a future teacher, I strongly support provid­ing quality public education, one that delivers more than just the bare minimum. 
But there is one major change, brought to at­tention by the budget, of which I have become a supporter — eliminating tenure. 
Perhaps I’ll regret saying this four years down the line when I’m living out of my car after los­ing my meager teaching salary to budget cuts, but hear me out. While I believe fairness and job security is important (especially my own), I think the education system (both general and univer­sity) need to reevaluate keeping teachers staffed based primarily on their seniority. 
In most education systems, tenure is defined as padded job security, which ensures that a teacher cannot be fired unfairly. While this is great in theory, “unfairly” seems to have lost it’s true value. 
At U. Nevada, Reno, for example, it takes a tenured professor two years of consecutive unsatisfactory remarks to even be considered for dismissal. In other words, even if a teacher is abysmal, it will take 730 days (in other words, approximately 12 college classes) before that teacher can be removed and replaced with some­one more adequate. 
That means that, for two years, students will be receiving instruction that is considered less than satisfactory. And in the grand scope of the budget, that is two years of wasted salary pay. 
In an ideal world, teachers would get better as they spent more time in the classroom. The real world, however, couldn’t be any further from the truth. Nevada is full of teachers who have become ingrained in their old ways, refusing to adapt to the changing personalities and learning styles of students. 
Teachers become comfortable in tenured posi­tions and lose their desire to contribute and put their best effort into the classroom. 
At the university level, we continue to employ professors based on their research, despite poor ratings from students and only satisfactory teach­ing skills. In any other profession, the idea of tenure is ludicrous. Jobs in marketing, journalism and even engineering can be lost in an instant based on one poor judgment call. 
Only teachers are given a two-year window for messing up. And it’s an important place to clean up the flack. 
For every day a poor teacher is in the class­room, there is a student who is likely not un­derstanding the material. Don’t get me wrong. I support education to the fullest — but not the type that focuses on keeping its employees more than educating students. 
And while I agree that every employee deserves job security, it should not impede our ability to keep the most able and flexible teachers in the classroom. 
This column first ran in the Feb. 14 edition of The Nevada Sagebrush, serving the University of Nevada. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The  Observer. 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, February 15, 2012 

By BRIGID MANGANO 
Scene Writer 

Most people living in the United States take for granted the ability to read and write. In many parts of the world, how­ever, illiteracy is a persistent problem. This presents great challenges to gov­ernment agencies when they need to communicate important messages to citizens. 
In the past, a common solution has been to hire graphic artists to convey the information using a visual language that is easily understood. The Snite Mu­seum of Art offers an excellent example of such didactic art with its exhibition “Art at the Service of the People: Posters and Books from Puerto Rico’s Division of Community Education (DIVEDCO).” 
The exhibit was organized by Marisel Moreno-Anderson and Thomas Ander­son, professors in the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, the exhibition is comprised of 28 posters and 10 book covers from their private collection. 
These artworks were created in con­junction with a sweeping public edu­cation campaign launched in 1949 by Puerto Rico’s newly-elected governor at the time, Luis Muñoz Marín. Over the next 40 years, DIVEDCO commissioned local artists to help teach the largely illiterate, rural populations about pub­lic health issues, community-building, agrarian subsistence and their unique cultural heritage. 
A recurring theme is the importance of continuing to cultivate the land, rather than moving to urban centers in search of jobs. Thanks to an American initiative known as Operation Bootstrap, which aimed to modernize and industri­alize Puerto Rico, the island witnessed a massive relocation of its populations to San Juan and other cities. This cri­sis takes center stage in a poster adver­tisement for the 1953 film “Pedacito de Tierra” (“A Small Plot of Land”), in which a farmer pushes a wooden plow in the foreground. The image strongly recalls Jean-François Millet’s “The Sower,” a famous nineteenth-century painting of a monumental figure scattering seed in his fields. Both pictures depict agricul­ture as a heroic, worthwhile enterprise. 
Several of the posters and books strive to spread awareness about easy preven­tive measures that can be help eradicate disease. In the dramatically titled “Su­cedió en Piedras Blancas” (“It Happened among White Stones”), three young boys gather around a man who is testing the water in their habitual swimming area. Meanwhile, a large freshwater snail hangs ominously over the stream. This mollusk is the key to unlocking the im­age, because snails were frequent carri­ers of a parasitic disease called bilhar­zia. Children who swam in contaminated waters were the most frequent victims. 
The front cover of the booklet “Bilhar­zia” features an even more urgent health message. A cracked skull that occupies almost half of the picture stares men­acingly out at the viewer. This image of death suggests the fatal nature of the disease, even though its mortality rate was quite low relative to other diseases. At the bottom of the page, the capitalized title appears in a font reminiscent of the warning labels on medicine bottles. 
Other artworks draw attention to Puerto Rico’s disappearing cultural tra­ditions. In “El Santero” (“The Carver of Wooden Saints”), an elderly artisan hand-paints a wooden religious icon. The poster is an advertisement for a 1956 film about a craftsman whose busi­ness is threatened by the increasing availability of mass-produced plaster saints. The man’s bare feet, small stat­ure, immaculate clothing and head bent in concentration all suggest a person of humble character. In the background, a shrine-like arrangement of figurines tower over their maker.
 “Art at the Service of the People” will remain on view through March 11. Stu­dents and faculty should take advantage of this unique opportunity to find out more about the social uses of art in mid­20th century Puerto Rico. 
Contact Brigid Mangano at bmangano@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: “Art at the Service of the People: Posters and Books from Puerto Rico’s Division of Community Education (DIVEDCO)” Where: Snite Museum of Art When: Now - March 11 How Much: Free Learn More: 
sniteartmuseum.nd.edu 


LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, February 15, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

By BRENNA WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 

Summer, prime marshmallow toasting season, may be far away, but with this simple recipe you can impress your friends and hearken back to a time when your legs saw sunlight on a regular basis. This recipe, adapted from the Betty Crocker website, makes 16 pre-measured servings that you — and anyone you choose to share them with — will love. That is, if you choose to share them at all! 
Below is the recipe, as well as suggestions for substitutions and tips to make it easier. 
Ingredients: 

-1 box brownie mix and the water, vegetable oil, 
and egg called for on brownie mix box. 
Tip: If you like fudgy brownies, use one less egg. Additionally, egg whites can be used instead of regular eggs. 
-
 2 cups miniature marshmallows 

-
 4 graham crackers, broken into small pieces 


Tip: If you’re a chocolate lover, you can use chocolate graham crackers instead. 
- 2 chocolate candy bars, broken into 1-inch squares 
Directions: 

1.
 Heat oven to 350°F. 


2.
 Make brownie mix as instructed. Instead of putting the mix into a baking pan, use a muffin tin. Divide the mix equally among the cups — you can make one batch of superbrownie cups or make a full pan plus four in a second batch for the suggested serving size. 


Tip: Using the muffin tin will eliminate the need to cut the brownies, which would get messy considering this recipe uses marshmal lows. Plus the cups are adorable. There is no need to grease the tins because of the oil in the mix. 
3. Bake for about 12 minutes. The cups are done when you insert a toothpick in the center and it comes out clean. 
Tip: KNOW YOUR OVEN! Baking times vary depending on how hot your oven gets. It’s always better to check the brown ies too early than to have them burnt. 
4.  
After removing pan from oven, set oven to broil. 

5.
 Immediately sprinkle marshmallows (8-10 




on each cup) and graham crackers over warm brownies. Broil about 4 to 5 inches from heat for 30 to 60 seconds or until marshmallows are golden brown. 
Tip: Keep an eye on them. As we all discovered as kids, marshmallows are prone to catching fire. 
6. 
Remove from oven and sprinkle each cup with chocolate candy. 

7.
 Cool for at least 30 minutes if you want to serve them warm. 


Tip: I suggest using a large plastic spoon to lift the cups out of the tin. 
Enjoy! Your inner child will thank you when you bite into one of these on a cold winter’s night. 
Contact Brenna Williams at bwillia9@nd.edu 

LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Classifieds Wednesday, February 15, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Parity allows all MLB teams shot at success 
Ah, the sweet sounds and smells of spring are ap­proaching. Such thoughts conjure different feelings for differ­ent people, but for me, it mostly means baseball is around the corner. 
If you look out­side it would be difficult to imagine that another base­ball regular season is a little over seven weeks away. 
There is simply something special about spring train­ing that none of the other sports can match. When each team shows up to spring training each Febru­ary, they believe they have a shot at winning their re­spective division and, unless you’re from the AL East, it is a realistic opportunity. After all, 15 of the 30 clubs have clinched a World Series berth since 2000, and 25 of the 30 teams have appeared in the postseason since 2001 (22 of 30 since 2006). 
Baseball’s exclusive Fu­tility Club consists of the Blue Jays (but they’re from Canada, so no one notices), the Royals, Pirates, Orioles and Expos/Nationals (rough to be baseball diehard from the Beltway, huh?). The Pi­rates, baseball’s poster child of irrelevance, have height­ened hope to end a playoff drought that has lingered since 1992. 
Basically, the Pirates have not made the postseason since a guy named Fielder led the Tigers in RBIs. What are the chances that ever happens again? 
What’s that? You say you have 214 reasons why that could happen again? 
Anyway, back to the topic at hand. 
Baseball has achieved a level of parity unmatched by other sports. Even with no salary cap and a luxury tax that only sometimes deters baseball’s Goliaths from let­ting their money rain (see the Yankees and Red Sox this offseason), baseball still achieves competitive bal­ance at a higher level than the other major sports. 
Last season, baseball’s version of the Final Four did not feature a club in the top nine of the sport’s payroll pecking order. 

Three teams came from the Midwest and one from the Southwest, a stark contrast to football’s East Coast Super Bowl. 
In the NFL, there has not been an AFC champion not named the Patriots, Colts or Steelers since 2002. If you don’t have an elite quarterback, forget about winning the Super Bowl. That sad reality eliminates 15-18 teams before the first whistle of the season is even blown. 
The NBA has the least amount of parity, and it grows worse each year. Rarely does a team make it to the NBA Finals, or even the conference finals, if they were not one of the preseason favorites. When is the last time an under­dog won their conference like the Cardinals, Rays, Tigers and Rockies won their leagues in recent years? 
Much of baseball’s parity is due to the irregulari­ties that are unique to that sport. Justin Verlander could very well win 20 games again this season, but it in no way guarantees the Tigers a division title, let alone an elusive World Series championship. If the bullpen implodes and the seemingly vaunted Detroit lineup fails to live up to the hype, the door will open widely for an up-and-comer like the Royals or Indians. 
That’s what makes the sport so great. While many people scoff at the pros­pects of the Mets somehow becoming competent or a Pirates NL Central title, the fact remains that all 30 clubs, including the typical cellar dwellers, have rea­son for optimism heading into 2012. 
After all, if a team that lost its ace in spring train­ing, was 10.5 games out of the playoff hunt in late August and was down to its final strike twice in the World Series still managed to muster enough magic to win a championship, who says your favorite team can’t? 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NBA 

Lin sinks Knicks’ game-winner 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — Linsane! 

Jeremy Lin made a tie-breaking 3-pointer with less than a second to play to cap his finishing flurry of six straight points, and the New York Knicks rallied to beat the Toronto Rap­tors 90-87 Tuesday night, extending their winning streak to six games. 
The NBA’s first Ameri­can-Taiwanese player, Lin had 27 points and a career-high 11 assists in his first game since being named 
Eastern  Conference  player  
of the week.  
The  season-high  crowd  

of 20,092 roared as Lin drained a pull-up jumper from the top with half a second to play, giving the Knicks their first lead since the opening quarter. 
Toronto’s Rasual Butler airballed his attempt at the buzzer as the Knicks swarmed their newest hero at center court. 
Amare Stoudemire re­turned from a four-game absence with 21 points and Tyson Chandler had 13 for New York. 
Jose Calderon scored 25 points, Linas Kleiza had 15 points and 11 rebounds, and DeMar DeRozan scored 14 for the Raptors. 
Up 75-66 to start the fourth, Toronto widened its lead with a three-point play by Bar­bosa before 

“Are we in the 
the Knicks in the hours 
playoffs now?” 
stormed back before the with a 10-0 game, and his run, cutting Mike D’Antoni visit generated it to 78-76 major interest 
Knicks coach 
cisive shot, touching off the latest instance of Linsanity. 
The Raptors had a photo of Lin on their team website 

and forcing the Raptors to call timeout with 6:22 remaining. 
Kleiza stopped the run with a driving layup, Amir Johnson added a hook shot and, after Lin made one of two from the line, Bar­bosa’s layup made it 84-77 with 4:49 to go. 
Toronto led 87-82 with less than two minutes to go when Iman Shumpert stole the ball from Calderon and drove in for an uncontested dunk. After a missed shot, Lin completed a three-point play, tying it at 87 with 1:05 left. 
Barbosa missed a 3 for Toronto and, at the oth­er end, Shumpert missed a jumper but Chandler grabbed the rebound. Lin took the ball near midcourt and let the clock run down to 5 seconds before driv­ing and pulling up against Calderon to launch the de­among Toron­
to’s Asian com­munity, estimated at over 280,000 people, or more than 11 percent of the local popu­lation. The Chinese Canadian Youth Athletics Association and the Taiwanese Canadian Association of Toronto both sent groups of almost 300 fans as Toronto sold out for the second time in 13 home games. One group of fans in the upper deck wore white T-shirts spelling out his name. 
Not all the fans were so positive: Lin was booed sev­eral times throughout the game. 
Local media also took note; some 75 reporters and 16 cameras packed a Tuesday morning press conference to hear Lin speak, with dozens more turned away to prevent overcrowding. More than 25 Chinese Canadian journal­ists were due to cover the game, including one who presented Lin with a book of “Year of the Dragon” stamps from Canada Post and asked him to record a message in Mandarin, which he did. 
Even Knicks coach Mike D’Antoni was shocked by the size of the throng upon walk­ing in for his turn at the mi­crophone. 
“Are we in the playoffs now?” D’Antoni joked as he made his way to the front of the room. 
It was Calderon, coming off a career-high 30 points in Sunday’s loss to the Lakers, who was hot early, scoring 12 points in the first as the Raptors led 28-21 after one. Lin missed his first shot and didn’t score until a driving layup with 3:46 left in the first. He had four points and four assists in the opening quarter. 
Lin turned the ball over on three straight possessions early in the second and To­ronto took advantage with a 6-0 run, widening its lead to 13 points. He also missed a running bank shot as the half ended as the Raptors took a 47-36 lead into the break. 
Stoudemire scored seven points and Lin had six points and four assists as the Knicks scored 30 points in the third, but still trailed 75-66 head­ing into the fourth. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

stainless appliances, 40-inch flat WALK TO CAMPUS  Born on this day:     1951-Jane Seymour- Actress 
FOR RENT PERSONAL 
screen TV, cable, wireless internet, 
ADT security.  1820- Susan B. Anthony- Women’s 1954- Matt Groening- Creator of Great Specials!  Suffragist “The Simpsons” 
$3,600/month. 
Six student rental for the 2012-13 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t 1874- Ernest Shackleton- Antarctic 1964- Chris Farley- Actor and 
school year. go it alone. Notre Dame has many Please contact Rob or Bob at 574-Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom; Explorer Comedian 
resources in place to assist you. 271-4060 Townhomes available.
 Extra nice, 3 year old house, If you or someone you love needs 1892- James Forrestal- First 1972- Jaromir Jagr- Hockey Player 
one mile south of campus at 330 confidential support or assistance, or email robpryor@ United States Secretary of 
Sunnyside Avenue. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 cressyandeverett.com (574) 272-8124.  Defense 1981- Olivia- American Singer 
or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more 
Three two student furnished information, visit ND’s website at:  orbobdunbar@cressyandeverett. 1935- Roger Chaffee- American 1983- Russell Martin- Baseball 
suites with common living area, com www.clovervillageapartments.com Astronaut Player 
hardwood floors, granite,  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Wednesday, February 15, 2012  The Observer u sports  ndsmcobserver.com | page 11  
NFL  NCAA  
Colts, Manning expected to meet  West Virginia ready to  

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Accord­ing to Colts owner Jim Irsay, Peyton Manning will decide whether he plays another game for Indianapolis. 
Irsay expects to meet with Manning in the next seven days, and the owner told The Indianapolis Star on Tuesday the return of the four-time MVP depends on his willing­ness to restructure his con­tract. 
Manning has spent the past five months recovering from his third neck surgery in less than two years, and there have been conflicting reports about how much progress he has made. 
The Colts owe Manning a $28 million roster bonus by March 8. They want to use the No. 1 pick in this year’s draft on Manning’s successor, and the future of their star QB will affect how much room they’ll have under the salary cap. 
Manning turns 36 in March. 
“We can make it work if he wants to be here,” Irsay told the newspaper. “We’d be excit­ed to have him back and finish his career with us. 
“I want him to be able to make the choice. We would love to have him back here if he can get healthy and we can look at doing a contract that reflects the uncertainty of the ... healing process with the re­generation of the nerve.” 
The Colts went 2-14 last sea­son without Manning, who started every game in his first 13 seasons in the NFL. He threw for 33 touchdowns and a career-high 4,700 yards in 2010, when Indianapolis went 10-6 and won the AFC South. 

Manning guided the Colts to a win in the Super Bowl after the 2006 season. 
Also Tuesday, the Colts com­pleted their coaching staff by hiring eight assistants and 
leave Big East, join Big 12 

making Clyde Christensen quarterbacks coach. 
First-year head coach Chuck Pagano already hired Bruce Arians as offensive coordina­tor and Greg Manusky as de­fensive coordinator. 
Associated Press 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. — West Virginia University an­nounced Tuesday it has settled a lawsuit with the Big East for an unspecified amount, clear­ing the way for the conference power Mountaineers to join the Big 12 in July in time for the fall football season. 
Athletic Director Oliver Luck said the terms of the deal were confidential and WVU wouldn’t release details. But Luck said no state, taxpayer, tuition or other academic dollars will be used in the settlement. 
A person familiar with the agreement said the settlement totaled $20 million but did not know how much money would come from the university and how much the Big 12 may con­tribute. The person spoke on condition of anonymity be­cause financial terms were not being made in the announce­ment of the agreement. 
Luck said the funding will come only from private sources and money that athletics raised independently. 
WVU has already paid half of the required $5 million exit fee to the Big East. 
Luck planned a news confer­ence to discuss the deal later Tuesday morning. 
A spokesman for the Big 12 didn’t immediately comment on the deal, but the conference released its football schedule about an hour after the an­nouncement. West Virginia will make its Big 12 debut on Sept. 29 at home against Bay­lor. 
The Mountaineers and their explosive offense went 10-3 last season and finished ranked in the Top 25. West Virginia capped off the season with a re-cord-setting 70-33 victory over Clemson in the Orange Bowl. 
WVU sued the Big East in Monongalia County Circuit Court in Morgantown in No­vember, challenging its bylaws in a bid to join the Big 12 in time for the 2012 season. 
The Big East countersued in Rhode Island four days later, arguing that WVU had breached its contract with the conference and should remain in the Big East for another two years as required in the bylaws. In late December, the judge there denied WVU’s mo­tion to dismiss. 
Luck said the Big 12 gives WVU “significant advantages” over the Big East. 
“The Big 12 is a strong and vibrant conference academi­cally and athletically,” he said in a statement. “We look for­ward to the potential academic and athletic partnerships and financial opportunities that membership in the Big 12 of­fers.” 
WVU President James Cle­ments called the partnership with the Big 12 “an investment in WVU’s future.” 
Big East Commissioner John Marinatto had repeatedly said West Virginia would not be al­lowed to leave until the 2014 football season. 
But in a statement Tuesday, Marinatto said the board of directors voted to terminate WVU’s membership in the con­ference as of June 30. Marinat­to said the board agreed to the deal because WVU was willing to drop its lawsuit and pay an exit fee “well in excess of that required by the bylaws.” 
AUTO RACING 

IndyCar changes rules to reduce safety concerns 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — With In­dyCar still recovering from Dan Wheldon’s death, series officials said Tuesday that double-file re­starts will be scrapped at India­napolis, Texas and Fontana and more changes to improve safety could be announced before next month’s season-opener at St. Pe­tersburg. 
“Oh yeah, there will be lots more to come,” IndyCar CEO Randy Bernard said after the two-day state of the series sum­mit wrapped up in Indianapolis. 
Bernard didn’t provide hints about what other announce­ments are pending. 
It’s all part of a plan to make courses safer and revamp In­dyCar’s image after Wheldon, a two-time Indy 500 winner, was killed in an accident at last year’s season-finale in Las Vegas. The wreck pushed safety issues to the forefront of racing and gave the drivers who risk their lives more latitude in framing complaints. 
Plenty of changes have already been made. 
The series is introducing its first redesigned car in nine years, a model that is being deemed IndyCar’s safest yet. Driver seats will be surrounded by three inches of foam in the cockpit, an inch of foam under­neath the seat and a panel on the right side of the cockpit to help reduce the force when hitting outside walls. Wheldon, who did most of the early testing, spoke glowingly about the new safety features. 
Series officials are hoping the addition of rear-wheel pods will eliminate the wheel-to-wheel contact that can send cars air­borne, too. 
The 16-race schedule includes only five oval races, down from eight of 17 last year, a move many racers have embraced since Wheldon’s crash, though Bernard said that decision was more about marketability than safety with the obvious exception of Las Vegas. 
New race director Beaux Barfield, who replaces Brian Barnhart in race control, made his decision on the restarts after talking directly with the drivers. 
“I could look into their eyes and see very legitimate concerns,” he said. 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u sports Wednesday, February 15, 2012 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Young, Smith propel Clemson past Virginia 

Associated Press 
CLEMSON, S.C. — Andre Young and Tanner Smith scored 13 points each and Clemson held No. 22 Virginia to its low­est point total this season in a 60-48 victory on Tuesday night. 
The Tigers (13-12, 5-6 At­lantic Coast Conference) took control with an 18-9 run over the final eight minutes to give the Cavaliers (19-6, 6-5) their second straight loss. Virginia looked out of synch with out­side threat Joe Harris playing in a cast after breaking his left hand in a loss to North Carolina last Saturday. 
Harris came in averaging 12 points a game, but was limited to two points on 1-of-5 shooting. 
Jontel Evans led the Cavaliers with 17 points and star Mike Scott finished with 13, four be­low his team-leading average. 
Devin Booker added 10 points for the Tigers. 
Booker was a big reason for Clemson’s second-half domi­nance. He was 0-for-1 with no rebounds in the opening period, scoring all 10 of his points and four rebounds after the break. He also added two blocks and two steals. 
The Cavaliers looked poised for a second-half charge after Evans had a three-point play and inside bucket to cut the lead to 44-41 with 7:56 remain­ing. That’s when Clemson got going on its charge. 
Smith hit a basket to start the run, while Booker had two bas­kets sandwiched between a shot by freshman Rod Hall. When Smith made two foul shots with 
1:55 left, the Tigers were ahead 54-43 and celebrating. 
Virginia came in missing a big part of its attack when soph­omore Harris just couldn’t get comfortable playing with his injury and did not start. When Harris did come off the bench, it was clear he was favoring the wrapped-up hand. He missed his only shot and committed two turnovers in 11 minutes of first-half action. Harris came in averaging 12.5 points and was crucial in the Cavaliers’ 65­61 win over Clemson back on Jan. 31 with 19 points off five 3-pointers. 
Having Harris at half speed seemed to affect his team­mates, too. 
Clemson forced 10 turnovers in the first 20 minutes, nearly what Virginia gives up in a game with its 11.5 average. The Cavaliers finished with 18 turn­overs, while Clemson picked up 14 steals. 
Harris’ replacement in the starting lineup, Malcolm Brogdon, picked up some of Vir­ginia’s missing touch from the outside with seven points on 3-of-4 shooting. 
Young kept the Tigers in it throughout the period. He scored the first five points and added a second 3-pointer that put Clemson out front, 14-13. 
The Tigers eventually led 21­17 before Scott’s smooth jumper and Brogdon’s 3-pointer gave Virginia the lead. 
NBA 

Heat win fourth straight game 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS — LeBron James scored 23 points and nearly produced his first triple double in 11 months and Dwy­ane Wade had 16 points Tues­day night, leading the Miami Heat to a 105-90 rout of the Indiana Pacers to become the first team in 33 years to win three straight on the road in three days. 
Miami is also the first club in 42 years to win each of the three by double digits. Phoenix was the last to win three in a row on the road in consecutive days, from Dec. 21-23, 1979. Milwaukee was the last team to win all three by at least 10 from Nov. 20-22, 1970. 
Plus, at 23-7, Miami has now tied the franchise’s best start. 
Things went so well Tuesday, that at halftime, James turned to the crowd and acted like he was reeling in a fish and dur­ing a third-quarter timeout. Mike Miller grabbed some­thing resembling a rope from the team trainer and acted like he was going to rope a steer. 
It was just that easy. 

Playing their fourth road game in five nights, some thought the Heat might show sign of fatigue. 
No way. 

Instead, the Heat looked crisp, relaxed and ready to send a message to the rest of the league — that they can dominate every possible way. 
Rookie Norris Cole matched his season-high with 20 points and James had nine points and six assists in the first 14 minutes. Wade made his first five shots and needed a little more than eight minutes to reach 10. Defensively, Miami was just as tough limiting In­diana to just 6 of 23 from the field in the first quarter and not much better until the clos­ing minutes. 
While Miami made it look easy, the Pacers played ugly. 
David West led the Pac­ers with 14 points and Paul George had 12, not nearly enough to avoid a fourth con­secutive loss. Even worse, the Pacers (17-11) lost leading scorer Danny Granger with a sprained left ankle late in the first quarter and he did not return. Granger finished with three points. 
Pacers fans were hoping In­diana had something to prove Tuesday after finally getting a two-day break. 
But James, Wade and their teammates never gave them a chance to amend for the 35-point loss at Miami last month. 
Miami used an early 10-0 run to take a 23-9 lead less than eight minutes into the game and led 33-16 after the first quarter. The Heat extend­ed the lead to 51-24 midway through the second quarter and led 68-39 at the half and the Pacers never got closer than 20 until less the final two minutes of the game. 


Wednesday, February 15, 2012 The Observer u sports ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles welcome road test at Calvin 

By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
While Saint Mary’s clinched the fourth spot in the MIAA tournament with a win over Adrian last week, the Belles still have at least one goal left to ac­complish in the regular season 
— to defeat No. 5 Calvin. 
The Belles (12-11, 8-6 MIAA) will travel Grand Rapids, Mich. tonight to play first place Cal­vin (22-1, 14-1) in their second-to-last regular season game. ‘Belles coach Jenn Henley said the team is looking forward to the opportunity to beat the best team in the conference. 
“It’s a big game,” Henley said. “They are the No. 1 team in the conference so anytime you play the top team in the conference, you are gunning for them. I think they are beatable.” 
The Belles lost to Calvin 80-54 earlier this season and have not beat the Knights since 2009. Much of Calvin’s fire­power comes from junior for­ward Carissa Verkaik, who leads the MIAA in both scoring and blocked shots. To beat the Knights this time around, the Belles will have to limit the im­pact Verkaik has on the game, Henley said.
 “As she goes, their team goes. She is very good and does a good job for them defensively with her ability to block shots and alter shots and keep people out of the paint. That’s going to be our number one focus,” Hen­ley said. “It’s going to be a total team effort in terms of shutting her down.” 
To combat Verkaik and the Knights, the Belles will rely on their four starting seniors, who all average over 10 points per game. In addition, Saint Mary’s will need to continue to get to the free throw line and play well as a team, Henley said. 
“I think we are doing a good job of getting to the foul line,” Henley said. “That’s kind of been a thing for us all year. Try­ing to put some points on the board with the clock stopped. Our team is playing really well right now. They’ve got some good chemistry going.” 
With Calvin sitting atop the conference, they are currently slated to play Saint Mary’s in the first round of the MIAA post­season tournament next week. While Henley said the Belles’ strategy will not change be­cause of likelihood they will play the Knights again in the play­offs, she is not sure how Calvin will handle the game. 
“I don’t think we will [go about the game any differently],” Hen­ley said. “Wednesday is Calvin’s last regular season game and there is a great chance for their first game in the tournament to be us again. They may be pre­paring a little differently know­ing we are going to play each other two times in a row. I think it makes for an interesting tour­nament because we will be re­ally familiar with them.” 
The Belles will travel to Grand Rapids, Mich. to play the Knights tonight at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact peter steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
Friars 
continued from page 16 

offense never appeared in sync, which prevented them from pulling away until late. But by the 7:59 point of the second half, Notre Dame had opened up a 16-point advantage. 
“I thought we played a lot better defensively in the second half,” McGraw said. “A couple of times we let them loose for threes. [Peters] did a great job on the boards.” 
Peters recorded her eighth double-double of the season by grabbing 11 rebounds to continue her rebounding tear. She struggled with the aggres­siveness of West Virginia’s post players Sunday but enforced her will down low Tuesday, going seven for 10 from the field. 
“I just want to go in there and rebound,” Pe­ters said. “That first day where I had the 16 boards [Jan. 23], it clicked like, ‘I could be doing this every night.’” 
Whenever the Irish of­fense seemed to stall in the half-court, Diggins got things going. She also pushed the ball in tran­sition off turnovers and missed shots. 
“She’s on a roll,” Mc­Graw said. “She’s so hard to guard when the other team wants to come up and try to slow us down. She can just dribble right through. When you’re re­bounding like [Peters] is doing and getting the ball in quickly and throwing it ahead to her, good things are going to happen.” 
Diggins added she looks 


Kubinski 
continued from page 16 
it on down the stretch en route to a 4-2 victory over the Bears. Both Usher and Walker rallied from three strokes down with nine holes to play. 
“I thought this morning didn’t look great to be hon­est,” Kubinski said. “[Cen­tral] Arkansas was play­ing some great golf, and we weren’t, but to see the guys do that was great. It was a game where every­thing was going against, and I was almost a little to the fact that we were going to lose, but after we won I had no doubt we were go­ing to win in the afternoon with the way we were play­ing.” 
Kubinski’s prediction came true in the final as the Irish made much quicker work of the Spar­tans, though the 4-2 score remained the same. Usher, Walker, senior Max Scodro and sophomore Niall Platt claimed wins in the vic­tory. 
Kubinski said the team’s consistency was the high­light of the event. 
“It was great to see con­sistent play across five or for Peters to finish the fast break. 
“As [Peters] raised her level of play, getting a rebound, I’m going to be right there, following her, trying to start the break, and she’s going to run,” Diggins said. “Our team is going to run.” 
Sophomore Kayla Mc­Bride added nine points and five rebounds for the Irish. The win keeps the Irish unbeaten in the all-time series against Provi­dence in 20 meetings. 
Providence redshirt se­nior Teya Wright, Provi­dence’s leading scorer and rebounder, went down early with an injury. She returned with 13:37 to play in the first half and scored just five points in the game. 
The Irish continue their Big East schedule Feb. 20 at Louisville. 
Contact Matthew robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
six golfers,” Kubinski said. “Often in the fall it was Max [Scodro] carrying the load for us, but he didn’t have to today, and this was something that I told the guys. It was an area that we struggled with in the fall, but I think the break served us well in that re­gard.” 
The Irish now wait a month before hitting the links competitively again at the Schenkel Invitation­al in Statesboro, Ga. 
“The Schenkel [Invita­tional] is always huge for us because so many top teams are there,” Kubin­ski said. “With the way we played the past two days and some time to prepare, we’re feeling good about it.” 
In the meantime, the Irish will travel to Hil­ton Head Island, S.C. next weekend for the Alumni Match Weekend, where the current Notre Dame squad will be paired with Irish golf alumni in an a tune­up contest. 
“The Alumni weekend is great,” Kubinski said. “It gets us another weekend of warm weather golfing and is always lots of fun for ev­eryone.” 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u sports Wednesday, February 15, 2012 
Holden 
continued from page 16 
being hunted.” 
The Irish swimmers will look to build on the strong performance by the Irish diving team over the weekend. The Irish div­ers picked up 71 points in competition, which lifted the Irish into second place, one spot below Louisville, in the Big East women’s team standings. 
To make their push at the championships, the Irish will look to several of their accomplished and experienced upperclass­men. The team features two individual champions from last year’s Big East championships in Holden and sophomore Kelly Ryan. 
Holden, who is a seven-time Big East champion, took titles in the 100­and 200-yard backstroke events last year, while Ryan, who holds the fast­est time on the team in four different events this season, won the 100- and 200-yard freestyle cham­pionships last season. Notre Dame will also rely on senior Amy Prestinario and junior Lauren Scott, who contributed to last year’s championship-win­ning 400-yard relay team. 
Notre Dame will also look for strong perfor­mances from the team’s talented group of fresh­men, who have been vital to the team’s success all season. Freshmen Emma Reaney, who has been named Big East Women’s Swimmer and Diver of the Week three times, Bridget Casey, who has won four titles in the 200-yard fly this season and Suzanne Bessette, who has the team’s quickest time in the 200-yard freestyle, have led this year’s group of freshmen. 
Holden saidshe has con­fidence in the freshmen and thinks they will con­tinue to contribute to the team, even during a high-stakes meet like the Big East championships. 
“I think the freshmen have set themselves re­ally well to contribute a huge amount to this year’s championship meet,” Holden said. “I don’t even think of them as freshmen because they have been really impressive and stepped up as leaders. I’m not worried about them at all.” 
Although a Big East championship serves as a major goal for the team, Holden said the team’s fo­cus is ultimately on the small picture, the individ­ual races that could make or break a championship bid. 
“Winning the Big East would be amazing and it is definitely on our minds, but it’s not our number one priority right now,” Holden said. “Our priority is to focus on one swim at a time and to put up some fast times that will sur­prise a lot of people.” 
The Big East champion­ships will begin Wednes­day at Pittsburgh’s Trees Pool and conclude Satur­day.  
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
Ranked 

get better because there’s the three-point line. Cool-still young guys here fig-ey was held to just nine 
continued from page 16 uring it out,” Brey said. points. “That’s one of the things “They’re a tough match-you don’t want to lose up for us,” Brey said. “One 
tournament berth, the track of in the midst of of the reasons they beat No. 23/25 Irish will host bracketology and rank-us [was] their speed and Rutgers (12-13, 4-8 Big ings and all of that stuff.” their quickness gave us East) tonight as a differ-Junior forward and Big problems. We’ve got to do 
ent squad than the last East play­time the teams faced. er of the 
“I do [feel like we’re a week Jack different team],” Irish Cooley has coach Mike Brey said. “I been at his think we’ve come a long most effec­way. I was disappointed tive in the in how young we played last two there, hung our heads. g a m e s , It’s amazing how far scoring we’ve come just watching 43 points the film this morning.” and grab-
The Irish entered the bing 26 national rankings for rebounds 

a better job defensive ­“Our team is still ly than we did there. 
improving but we can 
We couldn’t 

still get better because 
guard them.” 

there’s still young guys 
To coun­

here figuring it out.” 
ter the Scar­let Knights’ Mike Brey speed and Irish coach quickness, Brey said Notre Dame might play 
the first time this sea-combined in the last two some zone defense. son Monday, appearing contests. He accumulated “We’ll mix it,” Brey said. at No. 23 in the AP poll four double-doubles in “[If] we go to zone and it’s and at No. 25 in the USA the last six games. working, we’ll ride it for Today poll. Notre Dame In the loss to Rutgers on a long time. I think for (17-8, 9-3) currently sits Jan. 16, the Irish convert-us, changing defenses is in third place in the Big ed on just five of 13 free a key.” East standings. throw attempts and al-Changing defenses may 
“Our team is still im-lowed the Scarlet Knights also help the Irish force proving but we can still to shoot 47 percent from Rutgers to turn the ball over. The Scarlet Knights rank last in the Big East in turnovers, cough­ing the ball up nearly 15 times per game. The Irish, meanwhile, average less than 11 turnovers a game, tops in the conference. 
In Saturday’s victory over DePaul, the Irish scored 84 points — a sea­son high during Big East play. It was the first time since December Notre Dame topped the 80-point plateau. 
“I think we’ve shown here we’re comfortable in the second half putting up 40, 50 [points], we’ve done it a couple times now,” Brey said. “I think offensively, we’re improv­ing.” 
Notre Dame looks to ex­tend their six-game win­ning streak tonight when they face Rutgers. Tip-off is set for 7 p.m. in Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Matt defranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
Events 
continued from page 16 
award twice in the course of the season. He stands second in the 50-yard freestyle with a time of 
20.19 seconds, only one second behind No. 1 Bren­don Andrews from Lou­isville. Dyer also holds top time in the 200-yard freestyle, the second best in the 500-yard freestyle, and the third best in the 100-yard freestyle. 
Freshman James McEl­drew holds the third spot in both the 1,000-yard freestyle at 9:21.53 and the 1,650-yard freestyle at 15:44.39. Joining him are freshman Patrick Ol­son, with the second best time in the 400-yard in­dividual medley with a time of 3:56.30, and John­son, who holds the third best time in the 100-yard breaststroke, clocking in at 55.23. 
On the relay front, the Irish team of Dyer, junior Kevin Overholt, junior John McGinley and fresh­man Zach Stephens head in with the best time in the 400-yard freestyle, a spot they hope to preserve at the end of the week. 

“The most important thing is to swim fast,” Johnson said. “If everyone can go out and drop time, that’s great. If we can do that, the rest falls into place. Coming home with a title would be great.” 
This weekend’s events aside, the Irish already have four provision quali­fiers for the NCAA champi­onships — Dyer, Johnson, Overholt and McGinley. 
“This is what we’ve been training all year for and we’re ready,” Johnson said. “Here we come.” 
The championships kick off tonight with relays be­ginning at 6 p.m. Tomor­row the Irish will compete in the preliminary races starting at 10 a.m. with the 500-yard freestyle. 
Contact Megan finneran at                        mfinnera@nd.edu 



Wednesday, February 15, 2012 The Observer u today ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
HOROSCOPE eugeNiA lAST 
CROSSWORD Will SHOrTz 



HeNry ArNOlD 

LONDON EXPRESS Alex griSWOlD and lee  HAggeNjOS 
JUMBLE 
Mike ArgiriON 

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE jOe Miller and kelly lyNcH 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, February 15, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Friared up 
Notre Dame gets back on winning track against Providence 

By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a home loss to West Virginia that snapped a 21-game Irish winning streak, both graduate stu­dent forward Devereaux Peters and junior guard Skylar Diggins answered with 19 points apiece in No. 4 Notre Dame’s 66-47 victory over Providence on Tuesday in the Purcell Pa­vilion. 
Notre Dame (25-2, 12-1 Big East) did not get off to the start it had hoped and trailed 18-17 in the early going. Providence (13-13, 5-8) broke Notre Dame’s press early and often, breaking out in transi­tion to get easy layups and jump shots. 
“They handled our press really well, a lot better than we wanted them to,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “We had a little bit of a slower start than I expected. I really thought we’d have a great bounce-back game.” 
Diggins pushed the Notre Dame lead to 33-20 when she snagged a steal and took it the length of the court for a layup. In a half in which both teams turned the ball over 10 times, the Irish claimed a 37-27 advantage going into the locker room. 
“We had some turnovers, just got a little sloppy,” McGraw said. “We were quicker to be frustrated. I think the little mistakes kind of got magnified in that stretch.” 

Although Diggins led the team in scoring in the first half, she recognized there were points when she could have controlled the game more. 
“Pushing the pace is fine, but I’ve got to no­tice times when we need to slow it down,” She said. “Sometimes I get anxious.” 
The Friars hung around for most of the second half, keeping within strik­ing distance of the Irish. Notre Dame’s half-court 
see FRIARS/page 13 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Divers deliver gold, swimmers to compete 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish brought home the gold in both diving events this weekend when freshman Nick Nemetz swept the competition. Now, the swimmers look to follow in Nemetz’s foot­steps. 
The Big East champion­ships continue this after­noon, transitioning from diving events to swim­ming. The Irish (6-4) come off a rest period of more than two weeks, during which they tapered prac­tice in preparation for this competition. With the normal season over, the Irish will attempt to add to Nemetz’s trophy haul at Trees Pool in Pittsburgh as they face defending champion Louisville and the rest of the Big East. 
“We got to Pitt a few days early to settle in and swim a few times in their pool to get a feel for it,” junior Chris Johnson said. “We’re gearing up for an intense week and we’re ready for that.” 
Going into the champi­onships, four members of the Irish hold top-three times in various events. 
Sophomore Frank Dyer leads the Irish in many events and has proven himself as a top competi­tor, winning the Big East Men’s Athlete of the Week 
see EVENTS/page 14 
MEN’S GOLF 

Usher leads Irish to win in first spring tournament 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Despite strong finishes in a number of events, the Irish were never able to se­cure a tournament victory in the fall season, much to the consternation of Irish coach James Kubinski. 
It took them exactly one tournament to do so in the spring season, taking The Match Play title with wins against Central Ar­kansas and USC Upstate at the Reunion Resort Watson Course in Orlando, Fla. 
“To get on a winning track like this is huge for us,” Kubinski said. “It was something that frustrated us all fall, but I like what I’m seeing early on in the spring.” 
The semifinal match with Central Arkansas saw the Irish fall behind early, trailing in four of six matches heading into the back nine.  Spurred by impressive efforts from se­niors Tom Usher and Chris Walker, the Irish turned 
see KUBINSKI/page 13 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
ND looks to start new championship streak 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
After playing the role of favorite for the last 15 years, Notre Dame will look to use its newfound role of underdog to surprise some teams at this year’s Big East championships in Pittsburgh. 
Louisville snapped Notre 
Dame’s  unprecedented  
streak  of  14  consecutive  
conference  championships  
last year.  

.With the Cardinals seen as favorites for this year’s championship meet, the Irish (6-6) will aim to come from behind and potential­ly start a new run of cham­pionships. 
“Our team was talking about how this year is the first time we will be able to be on the offense instead of on the defense, since we were previously always looking to defend the title,” junior Kim Holden said. “We’re looking forward to just focusing on putting up some impressive times, but we like knowing that we’ll be on the hunt instead of 
see HOLDEN/page 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Squad seeks revenge over Rutgers 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 

Nineteen games into the season, then-unranked Notre Dame was strug­gling at 11-8, including 3-3 in the Big East. Connecti­cut had just snapped the long Joyce Center winning streak, and a loss at Rut­gers extended the skid. 
But on Jan. 21, Notre Dame (17-8, 9-3 Big East) upset then-No. 1 Syracuse 67-58, kicking off a six-game winning streak that includes three victories over ranked opponents. 
Now, nationally ranked and closing in on an NCAA 
see RANKED/page 14 






