
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


PostSecret founder speaks 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
The secret that impacted PostSecret founder Frank Warren the most was the se­cret he never saw. 
“The only reason I know this secret exists is be­cause of an email I received from a woman who said she wrote her secret on a post­card, thinking it was going to make her feel better, but when she saw it staring back at her, she felt horrible,” said Warren, the founder of Post-Secret, a community art proj­ect to which people send in postcards with secrets. “She tore the postcard in half and decided in that moment that she would never be the per­son with that secret again.” 
Warren founded PostSe­crets in 2004 and has toured for the last five years with PostSecret Live, which took place in Washington Hall on Wednesday night. 
SUB Ideas and Issues co­ordinator Tricia Corban said the event was cosponsored by the Student Union Board (SUB), the Junior Class Coun­cil and Notre Dame’s chapter of the National Alliance for Mental Illness. 
At the event, Warren shared secrets that did not make it into the five PostSe­cret books, as well as some secrets of his own. Students also had the opportunity to share secrets via four micro­phones set up around the au­ditorium. 
Warren said the tour is special for college campuses. 
“I think the project reso­nates with young people more than anyone else, and so I feel like the conversation I have on college campuses is so much more meaning­ful because young people are just more aware of what’s happening online,” he said. “But more than that, I think that they are at a place in their lives where they are more authentic with them­selves and trying to figure out what’s true in the world.” 
Frank said he doesn’t like to think of himself as a per­former, but because he’s giv­en hundreds of lectures, he notices differences and simi­larities with each new place he visits. 
“One thing I noticed abo­

see WARREN/page 8 


Tournament to begin today 
The annual Bookstore Basketball contest features 669 teams 

By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 

Winning Bookstore Basket­ball, the largest 5-on-5 basket­ball tournament in the world, earns the victors considerable campus bragging rights. But fin­ishing in the top 10 most creative team names is an equally im­pressive feat. 
Senior Bobby Curley, co-pres­ident of Bookstore Basketball, said this year’s honorees include the teams “Parisians in Africa,” “Ball So Hard My Rector Try to Fine Me” and “Deuteronomy 28:5, ‘Blessed Shall Be Your Bas­ket.’” 
“The best part of [Bookstore Basketball] in the early rounds is the creativity,” Curley said. 
This year’s open bracket fea­tures 669 teams, down from last year’s record of 739, Curley said, and play begins today. The women’s bracket has yet to be fi­nalized. 
Even though the beginning of the tournament is less serious, Curley said as the field dwindles, students’ competitive natures become apparent. 
“In the end rounds, you see 


see BOOKSTORE/page 7 


Panel presents talk on service 

By AMY KLOPFENSTEIN 
News Writer 

In preparation for Satur­day’s CommUniversity Day, a panel of directors from South Bend service organizations addressed students about volunteering in the South Bend community Wednesday in DeBartolo Hall. 
Milton Lee of the Food Bank of Northern Indiana, Sarah Stewart of Unity Gardens and Jennifer Knapp Beudert of the Robinson Community Learning Center discussed the struggles their organi­zations face in assisting the South Bend community. 
Beudert said she is opti­mistic about the future of the South Bend community. 
“Every day I get the chance to see great things happening for kids,” Beudert said. 
The Robinson Center pro­vides everything from youth after-school tutoring to se­nior computer classes, Beud­ert said, and it impacts an estimated 10,000 people through either direct or indi­rect means. Students have the opportunity to volunteer as tutors, as well as to partici­pate in the Take Ten program, which focuses on teaching students conflict resolution techniques, she said. 


see PANEL/page 6 
Institute leader gives lecture 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
With rising anxieties about population growth, global warming, fossil fuel use and the Earth’s food supply as a bleak backdrop, Dr. Wes Jack­son, president of the Land In­stitute, explained his organi­zation’s initiatives to change global agriculture in a public lecture Wednesday. 
The Kansas-bred Jackson, who has worked as a profes­sor, an author and a farmer, said the Institute’s work and research aims to solve the “problem of agriculture” pre­sented by tilling annual seeds through the development of revolutionary perennial grain hybrids. 
“The Land Institute is about breeding perennial grains that will allow us to bring processes to the farm that have been denied with the annual [grain planting] tra­dition,” Jackson said. 
These hybrid perennial grains generate higher yields due to their complex root systems, a large ratio of veg­etation to grain and a longer photosynthetic period, Jack­son said, which makes them a sustainable alternative to annual planting practices that drain soil resources and require large amounts of car­bon-rich energy. 
“If these perennial plants reduce erosion risks, man­age nutrients better, pro­duce higher yields … what’s holding us up [from planting them]? What else do we need to hear? What do we do?” Jackson said. “With perenni­als, the ecosystem becomes a more powerful conceptual tool.” 
Jackson outlined what he calls the “3.45-billion-year­old imperative” of all life to consume energy-rich car­bon to sustain growth and its influence on monumental stages in the development of human civilization, includ­ing the first Mediterranean agricultural revolution, the use of forest carbon during the Bronze and Iron Ages and the discoveries of coal, natu­ral gas and oil as sources of energy. 
As humans became increas­ingly dependent on energy for agricultural production, poli­cies and institutions changed 
see JACKSON/page 8 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER MBA students win competition page 3 u Viewpoint page 10 u Game of Thrones review page 12 u Football spring practice page 24 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH DINING HALL IS BETTER, NORTH OR SOUTH? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Tori Roeck Andrew Gastelum Dan Brombach Katie Heit Abi Hoverman Laura Coletti Graphics Scene Lisa Hoeynck Kevin Noonan Photo Viewpoint Ashley Dacy Caroline Lang  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 57 LOW 39 


Drew Williams  Tina Andry  Julie Cleveland  Maureen Choman  Nick Brandt  
junior  sophomore  sophomore  senior  senior  
Stanford  Pasquerilla East  Cavanaugh  Lewis  Stanford  
“South is too  “North. There is  “North. The  “North, I like  “I like turtles.”  
confusing,  no mosh pit to  architecture  the mints they  
North.”  get your food.”  is more  have.”  
aesthetically  
pleasing.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Lunch-goers by the hundreds bust a move in Sweden 
STOCKHOLM — Some workers in Sweden have found a rather offbeat way to spend their lunch hour. Actually, on-beat is more like it. 
Dripping with sweat and awash in disco lights, they dance away to pulsating club music at Lunch Beat, a trend that started in Stock­holm and is spreading to other cities in Europe. 
The first Lunch Beat was held in June 2010 in an un­derground parking lot in Stockholm. Only 14 people showed up. But they had so much fun they immediate­ly planned another event. Word spread, and now the Swedish capital has month­ly Lunch Beats that attract hundreds. 
on, 29, came to Lunch Beat with more than a dozen people from a government office. 
“It’s great,” she said. “We’ll go back sweaty together.” 
Tweeters catty over reports Medvedev’s pet fled 
MOSCOW — Russians who view President Dmitry Med­vedev as Vladimir Putin’s lapdog flashed their claws over news reports that Med­vedev’s cat had run away. 
Medvedev, attending a summit in India, tweeted late Wednesday that the fluffy feline named Doro­fei wasn’t missing after all. 
But by then it was too late to stem a deluge of catty re­marks on Twitter, where the pet was a top Russian topic. 
One user said Dorofei wanted to teach his mas­ter how to be independent. Another posted a doctored photo of Putin in a fur hat with cat’s ears and the cap­tion: “Dorofei? No, haven’t seen him.” 
Although Putin left the Kremlin in 2008 and shifted into the premier’s job, he has far overshadowed Med­vedev. Putin recently won election to a new term as president and has promised to name Medvedev premier. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
A workshop titled “Library Workshop: Using RefWorks” will teach students to use the software to organize and generate bibliographies to­day at 4 p.m. in Room 247 of the Hesburgh Library. 
NASAND will host an art battle today called “Break­ing Tradition: A Contempo­rary Look at Culture” at 5 
p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. 
Big Brothers and Big Sis­ters Association of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will host a fundraiser at the Five Guys at Eddy Street Com­mons today from 5 to 9 p.m. Ten percent of the sales will benefit the club. 
The Creative Writing Pro­gram will host a reading by British poet Richard Beren­garen, who will read his own work today at 7 p.m. in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. The event is open and free to the public. 
Pangborn Hall will pres­ent a fashion show called “Project Pink: Fashion Ex­travaganza” today at 7 p.m. in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. Benefiting SOS Rape Crisis Center, all clothes modeled by the stu­dent will be auctioned after the show. 
Freshman Class Council will host a class-wide bon­fire as part of the “Fire and Ice Two Day Event” today from 8 to 10 p.m. on Holy Cross Hill. S’mores will be served. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 










HIGH 54 LOW 37 
HIGH 56 LOW 46 

HIGH 69 LOW 57 
HIGH 72 LOW 44 

SGA 



MBA students win 
Association finalizes constitution 
case competition 
“My  favorite  moment  was  As turnover draws near,  
when we all agreed upon the re- Gans reminded the board  By CAROLYN HUTYRA  
structuring of SGA,” Gans said.  they all need to pass on a  News Writer  
Amanda Lester, public rela­ binder of the materials they  
tions commissioner in charge of  used to those assuming their  Notre Dame MBA students swept  

By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
This year’s members of the Saint Mary’s Student Govern­ment Association (SGA) met for the last time Wednesday before the new officers assume their roles April 1. 
For their last order of busi­ness, members of SGA finalized the new constitution. 
The student body must vote on the revisions, and 25 percent of students who vote must ap­prove for the constitution to go into effect. 
There will also be a banquet after Easter break to celebrate the new structure of SGA and the leaders from this year who made it possible. 
Current members of SGA also shared their favorite memories of the year. 
Student body president Ni­cole Gans said she is especially proud of the changes made in the SGA structure. 
social media, said her fa­vorite mem­ory from the year was a particular event. 
“My fa­vorite ac­tivity was the bowling night,” she said. 
Karen Johnson, vice presi­dent of stu­

“Everyone in this room has affected the student body this year ... and I couldn’t have asked for a better group of girls.” 
Nicole Gans student body president 
posit ions next week. Reflecting on the year as a whole, Gans said she was really grate­ful to work with such a talented group of stu­dents this year. 
“Every­one in this room has affected the first, second and third place at the 2012 Arthur W. Page Society Case-Writing Competition in Corporate Communications this week in New York. 
According to a press release, the winning projects focused on the 2010 Carnival Cruise Line fire, Groupon’s initial public offering and the Sony PlayStation network crash respectively. 
Professor James O’Rourke, the faculty advisor for the projects, said Notre Dame has a good track record in the competition, which judges communications cases to be used in an educational setting. 

dent affairs, who advises SGA,  student body this year …  “[The Arthur Page Society has]  
said she was impressed with the  and I couldn’t have asked for  sponsored,  for  probably  a  dozen  
work SGA did this year.  a better group of girls,” she  years,  an  annual  case  writing  
“This is the most exciting year  said.  competition to expand the body of  
I’ve had,” Johnson said. “Thank  knowledge, to influence how com- 
you for a great year, and I’m  C ont a c t K r i st en R ic e a t  munication is practiced and taught,”  
very proud to be your advisor.”  k r ic e 01@ s a i nt m a r y s .e du  O’Rourke said. “Notre Dame has  


won the case writing competition more often than any other school.” 
O’Rourke said the key to success in the competition is to tell a good story. 
“In writing a case study our aim is never to identify heroes and vil­lains,” he said. “We’re not trying to make management look good or look bad. We’re trying to tell a story that will become the basis for a class­room discussion.” 
Students who participated in the competition are enrolled in a course called Corporate Communication, O’Rourke said, which surveys a vari­ety of topics within the area of com­munications. 
“The students choose from among a world of issues out there bearing down on companies every day,” he said. “These issues might focus on employee communication, media relations, crisis management, inves­tor relations, lobbying and legislative liaison. It may be an image, identity or reputation issue.” 
The cases created in the class­room are submitted to competitions and can also be published, O’Rourke said. 
“In the past 20 years, we have published more than 250 cases,” he said. “Notre Dame cases are in use in 131 colleges and universities in this country and about half that many schools overseas.” 
O’Rourke said students spoke to important people in the business world to prepare their projects. 
“I provide [the students], if I can, with contacts in the business, and we set up telephone interviews with executives,” he said. “That provides us with answers to questions that aren’t addressed in the business press, and it also gives us an oppor­tunity to ask them about strategy and tactics in dealing with these is­sues.” 
Laura Divel, Russell Cramer and Sam DeLemos received first place for their project analyzing the causes of a Carnival Cruise ship that caught fire at sea, lost power and went rud­derless in the Pacific Ocean near Mexico for over a week, O’Rourke said. 
“It was a story well told, but it was also thoroughly documented,” he said. “It was scrupulously fair. They did not look to point blame in any di­rection.” 
Divel said the people they contact­ed for the project set theirs apart. 
“I think one of the things that set our case apart was that we inter­viewed [Tim Gallagher], the vice president of public relations at Car­nival,” Divel said. “It made it a little more interesting because we got a little bit of what was going through his mind.” 
Third place winner Shawn Do said he and his project partner John Hsu sought to tell the story of the Sony PlayStation Network crash as fairly and accurately as possible. 
“The material itself basically talked about when the crash went down [and] how Sony had hidden the facts from everyone for about a week or so,” Do said. “We basically laid out the timeline and how it all transpired.” 
Divel said the hard work her group put into the project was worthwhile. 
“It was definitely challenging, and we worked a lot of hours on it, but we enjoyed it,” Divel said. “I think the re­search was the biggest component of it and making sure we had accuracy because there is so much informa­tion out there. Our case was a crisis management case so the news me­dia likes to take that up and publish a lot of details on it, and you have to distinguish what is fact.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 



Group to address distracted driving 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
News Writer 
First-year student Morgan Car­rol is forming a new committee at Saint Mary’s to promote dis­tracted driving awareness and prepare for a lecture in April. 
“I’m looking for students who understand the danger [of dis­tracted driving] and who aren’t afraid to speak out about their views, who understand it’s impor­tant,” Carrol said. 
Diveeta Thompson, founder of Stop Texting AND Driving Dis­tracted (STANDD), will address Saint Mary’s students on the per­ils of distracted driving April 25. 
“She’s going to talk about her story,” Carrol said. “Her own son [Rodney Thompson] was killed in a texting and driving accident.” 
According to the STANDD web­site, the organization’s mission is “to encourage individuals to Stop Texting AND Driving Distracted, while promoting safety and em­powerment through knowledge, education, and purpose.” 
Thompson has been featured in multiple newspapers and radio shows and spoken at churches, high schools and universities. She even appeared on the Oprah Win­frey Show in 2010, according to the STANDD website. 
Carrol said she hopes the lec­ture will teach students how dangerous it can be to drive dis­tracted. 
“I want them to come see the bigger picture and how little things like texting and driv­ing can take away from life,” Carrol said. “Hopefully there’s a big enough turnout to bring awareness to that and bring [the committee] more mem­bers who understand how im­portant this is.”
 She said she was inspired to combat distracted driving af­ter hearing Thompson speak. 
“When I was a senior in high school, she came to speak at my school, and I was very moved by what she had been through and what she had done about it,” Carrol said. “I realized, this isn’t okay ... It was something that I wanted to take into my own hands and help.” 
Carrol said she wants the committee to put up a series of fliers and sponsor promotions to publicize the event. 
“We are going to come to­gether to promote fundraising and collaborate ways to bring awareness to texting and driv­ing,” she said. 
She said the committee will sell STANDD bracelets at a table in the student center atrium leading up to the event. 
“There are also pledge forms that we have where stu­dents can pledge not to text and drive,” Carrol said. 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@stmarys.edu 


Event to raise money for hospital 
By MEAGHAN DALY 
News Writer 
From noon to midnight Satur­day, over 300 Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students will bust a move for Riley Hospital for Children at the Dance Marathon in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Dance Marathon executive member Maureen Parsons said she hopes the event will teach students about the work Riley Hospital does. 
“I think the biggest challenge we face each year is trying to convey to students how awesome of an organization Riley Hospital truly is.” Parsons said. 
According to the Riley Hos­pital website, the Indianapolis hospital is one of the nation’s premier children’s hospitals, 
and Dance Marathon president Reb ecca Guerin said Riley does not turn pa­tients away for financial reasons. 
Parsons said be­tween 15 and 20 families of children in the Riley 

pating in Dance Marathon,” Par-it has been so gratifying to see sons said. so many college-aged students Parson said the theme of this want to be a part of something year’s Dance Marathon is “Ani-so selfless,” Guerin said. “I think 
mal King­dom”. The event will feature games, crafts, perfor­mances, food and even live animals, she said. 
The Dance Mara­thon will also cross 

“I think the biggest challenge we face each year is trying to convey to students how awesome of an organization Riley Hospital truly is.” 
Maureen Parsons executive member Dance Marathon 
“What keeps me so connected to Dance Marathon is the feeling that you get when you see how many people you are helping and how grateful they are for all the hard work our college puts in for this cause.” 
Amy Tiberi executive member Dance Marathon 
that our An­imal King-dom-themed marathon [this] week­end is truly going to be our best marathon yet. From the exotic animals to the glow-stick rave hour, it’s go­ing to be a blast!” 
over with Saint Mary’s Lil’ Sibs weekend, Parsons said. Lil’ Sibs 
participants will take part in the marathon from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m., and a “Silly Safari” will take place during that time. 
Amy Ti­beri, execu­tive mem­ber of the Dance Mar­athon, said 
Tiberi said Riley Hospital is a cause close to her heart. 
“I am so passionate about this cause because I know people who have personally been affected by Riley,” Tiberi said. “What keeps me so con­nected to Dance Marathon is the feeling that you get when you see how many people you are helping and how grateful they are for all of the hard work our college puts in for this cause.” 
Saint Mary’s students can register for the Dance Marathon in the Student Center Atrium, and Notre Dame students can visit www.nd.edu/~medinfo. Day-of registration will begin Saturday at 11:30 a.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Meaghan Daly at mdaly01@stmarys.edu 
Hospital will attend the event, and they will share their stories throughout the day. 
“Until you hear a Riley child share his or her story, you really do not know the impact of partici­the goal of this year’s event is to exceed the $63,000 raised last year by 20 percent. 
Guerin said she expects this year’s event to be a success. 
“As the year comes to an end, 


SENATE 


Senate approves new members 
and for-profit companies. 

Panel 
Lee said students should be-
By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
Student Senate passed a reso­lution Wednesday proposing the continuance of the Campus Bike Shop and approved three students for student government positions during the 2012-2013 term. 
Student body president Pat Mc­Cormick also delivered his third and final State of the Student Union address, as required by the undergraduate student body con­stitution. 
The resolution asked the Univer­sity to “take definitive actions to provide or make space for a Cam­pus Bike Shop” before the start of the fall 2012 semester. It request­ed the shop be a free service and “serve students sustainably by us­ing salvaged parts and the labor of student mechanics.” 
Senate approved sophomore Elizabeth Garvin and freshman Anh Ta for assistant student union treasurers. The group also ap­proved sophomore James Slaven for director of publicity of the Stu­dent Union Board. 
Senate approved junior and cur­rent student body secretary Katie Baker for chief of staff. 
The group selected two recipi­ents of the Irish Clover Award from eight nominations. The award is given to students, faculty, staff or administrators who have demon­strated exemplary service to stu­dent government. 
Senate also chose one recipient of the Frank O’Malley Teaching Award from five nominations of four faculty members. The honor is intended for a professor who has had an outstanding impact on un­dergraduate education at the Uni­versity. 
Student body vice president and president-elect Brett Rocheleau said the recipients of these awards will be announced Tuesday at the Student Leadership Banquet. 
In his State of the Student Union 
address, Mc­Cormick said his adminis­tration united the various branches of student gov­ernment to increase co­hesion. 
“Our Stu­dent Senate now brings every stake­holder within the Student Union to­gether in one meeting to ex­“We are especially grateful to both Notre Dame students and local po­lice for a dramatically improved relationship between the student body and law enforcement.” 
McCormick said the recently enacted Indiana Lifeline Law will make medical amnesty state law July 1. 
“This is a law for which students across Indiana have long advo­

“We have been united by our hope that something new was possible this year, something that has never happened before.  It was the hope that students might write a new chapter in Notre Dame’s history.” 
Pat McCormick student body president 
pand inclusion as fully as possible in the advocacy of student govern­ment,” he said. 
The administration enhanced constituent services and improved student safety, McCormick said. 
“This year, we held regular meetings with local law enforce­ment representatives, held a Safety Summit on campus and a variety of other events aimed at educat­ing students about how to stay safe and serve as good neighbors in the South Bend community,” he said. 
cated, and we are grateful to state legislators for their recogni­tion that in emer­gency situations, student safety has to be the first priority,” he said. 
Student gov­ernment also advanced an agenda “for stu­dents in chart­ing a course for the Notre Dame project,” McCor­mick said. He said parts of this 
effort have included a sustainabil­ity initiative, the Playing for Peace tournament and food security in South Bend. 
“We have been united by our hope that something new was pos­sible this year, something that has never happened before,” McCor­mick said. “It was the hope that students might write a new chap­ter in Notre Dame’s history.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
continued from page 1 
non-profit that grows free healthy food for the com­munity, and Stewart said it is difficult to ensure people have access to nutritious food. 
“We can’t afford not to grow and share healthy food,” Stewart said. 
Unity Gardens also fo­cuses on 
come more socially conscious and interact with a wide vari­ety of people. 
“Make your world smaller and learn from other people,” Lee said. 
Stewart also said students should pursue service oppor­tunities within their areas of interest. 
“Get involved with things that connect with your pas­sion,” she said. “We will be 
changed and 

community so will you.” 
health and “Get involved with things Beudert nutrition-that connect with your said many al educa-passion.  We will be students are tion, Stew-changed and so will you.” afraid of leav­art said. ing campus, Th rough but through 
Sarah Stewart 
this orga-community 
Unity Gardens director 
nization, involvement, Stewart they not only said she have reward-hopes to foster a connection ing experiences, but also de­among people, their com-velop a more positive attitude munity and the environ-toward the South Bend com­ment. munity. 
Lee said hunger-insecu-“Take care of yourself first, rity, particularly among and through that strength you youth, can give to presents others,” she 
a major “Make your world said. 
challenge CommUni ­
smaller and learn 
to the versity Day 
from other people.” 
South Bend will take c o m mu -place Satur-
Sarah Stewart 
nity. day, when 
“We Unity Gardens director students from want to en-Notre Dame, sure that Holy Cross, kids have a healthier future, Saint Mary’s and IUSB will a brighter future,” Lee said. volunteer at sites throughout 
Stewart said students South Bend to foster commu­should help out community nity involvement. organizations and create student advisory councils to Contact Amy Klopfenstein at work with local non-profit aklopfen@nd.edu 


Bookstore 
continued from page 1 
how competitive Bookstore Bas­ketball can get,” he said. “There’s a lot of talent out there.” 
Curley said showing off stu­dents’ talent in the tournament allows for others’ talent to be cul­tivated. 100 percent of the profits from Bookstore Basketball go to Jumpball, a charity founded by a Notre Dame alumnus which sponsors free basketball camps for underprivileged children in Jamaica, he said. 
“When you’re signing up for a team, you’re signing up for tons of fun and it’s a huge Notre Dame tradition that makes Notre Dame unique,” Curley said, “[B]ut on top of that, you’re making a whole new team possible for kids who otherwise wouldn’t have the op­portunity to play any basketball.” 
Curley said he traveled to Ja­maica last summer to coach one of Jumpball’s camps. 
“They’ve kept a lot of kids out of trouble,” he said, “and the biggest thing is that it gives [the kids] … good role models.” 
Curley said students should come out to support Bookstore Basketball both as players and spectators. 
“We want a lot of people out there,” he said. “It’s a place to be social, see a lot of people you know and generally have a good time. And in the end rounds, you can see basketball talent that you would see if you paid to go see a game.” 
This year’s championship game will be at night to encourage more students to attend, Curley said. 
Sophomore Allison Smith said the social aspect of Bookstore Basketball most appealed to her. 
“Last year my sister was a se­nior, and I went to one of her Bookstore Basketball games,” Smith said. “She dressed up really weirdly, and it looked like a lot of fun.” 
Smith said her team, the Invis­ible Super Ponies, hopes to craft creative outfits involving puffy paint. 
“I can play basketball and be stupid at the same time,” she said. 
Junior Aaron Stumpf said tra­dition is a big factor in Bookstore Basketball’s success. 
“It’s an opportunity for the entire Notre Dame community to come together to play a sport they love,” Stumpf said. “And who wouldn’t want to say I played in the largest 5-on-5 outdoor basket-ball tournament in the world?” 


Stumpf said his team, “Fab Can’t Read,” pokes fun at Fab Melo, the center on the Syracuse men’s basketball team who was ineligible for many games this season for academic reasons. 
“[We chose our team name] because well, he can’t read,” he said. “And we strongly dislike Syracuse.” 
Stumpf also said Jumpball is an appropriate charity to receive the profits of Bookstore Basketball. 
“They teach more than just the dream of making it big as a pro­fessional athlete,” he said. “They teach teamwork, discipline and give hope to those less fortunate.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
U.S. army increases Afghanistan security 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — U.S. mili­tary commanders in Afghani­stan have assigned “guardian angels” — troops that watch over their comrades even as they sleep — and have ordered a series of other increased secu­rity measures to protect troops 
against  possible  attacks  by  
rogue Afghans.  
The  added  protections  are  

part of a directive issued in re­cent weeks by Marine Gen. John Allen, the top U.S. commander in Afghanistan, to guard against insider threats, according to a senior military official. And they come in the wake of a spike in attacks on U.S. and coalition forces by Afghans, including the point-blank shooting deaths of two U.S. advisers in Afghani­stan’s Ministry of Interior. 
Some of the changes have been subtle, others not so much. 
In several Afghan ministries, Americans are now allowed to carry weapons. And they have been instructed to rearrange their office desks there to face the door, so they can see who is coming in, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to describe the internal direc­tive. 
While Allen did not detail the new measures in a briefing ear­lier this week, he acknowledged that changes had been made. 
“We have taken steps neces­sary on our side to protect our­selves with respect to, in fact, sleeping arrangements, internal defenses associated with those small bases in which we oper­ate,” Allen said, adding that now someone is “always overwatch­ing our forces.” 

The security measures came after the U.S. military mistak­enly burned Qurans and other religious materials in February, triggering anti-American dem­onstrations and riots. And on Feb. 25, two U.S. military advis­ers were gunned down at their desks in one of the most heav­ily guarded ministry building in Kabul. 
As a result of the shootings, more than 300 advisers were pulled out of the Afghan minis­tries. So far, several dozen have returned, but many will not go back until additional secu­rity measures are put in place by the Afghans. That would include better vetting proce­dures, background checks and physical security measures at the ministries. The military official also said some advis­ers may not return, since com­manders have determined that some may no longer be needed in the jobs. 
The military official said Al­len issued the directive “to get every single troop in the war zone to read it and think” — and to emphasize that troops should be aware of their sur­roundings as they go about their jobs. 




Jackson 
continued from page 1 
accordingly, especially the passage of three influential American agricultural bills by 1914, Jackson said 
“In [19th-century] Britain … people began to realize they didn’t need slaves if they had power and energy,” he said. “In Civil War America, the es­tablishment of the land-grant college system de­

“The last green revolution 
mocratized knowledge in gave us a tripling of every state yields, but its principles and spread are not good.  The mission it through-of the next synthesis is to out newly ac-move agriculture from an 
quired terri­

extractive to a renewable 
tory.” 

economy and rescue us 
Jackson 

from the fallen world.” 
said the post-World War II develop-Wes Jackson ment of the Land Institute President 

Haber-Bosch process of ammonia production from nitrogen is “responsible for 40 percent of the standing crop of homo sapiens today.” 
But this innovation also began the transformation of modern American agricul­ture into a carbon-hungry, fuel-guzzling industry that relies on large 
government 

“If we look upward to the 
subsidies and 

ecosystem level, there are 
has produced 

answers to questions we 
a “dead zone” 

haven’t learned to ask.  
at the end of the Mississippi Since [Rene] Descartes River the size and [Frances] Bacon, the of New Jersey, hardest thing to overcome Jackson said. for our industrial minds “As a general 
... has been the reductive 
law, high en-

approach to problems 
ergy destroys 

that pays no attention 
information of 

to emergent properties 
a cultural and 

present at every level .” 
biological va­riety,” he said. In address-Wes Jackson ing modern Land Institute President 
agricultural practices that rely on fossil fuel-derived fer­tilizers, annual grain subsi­dies and large-scale industri­al farming, Jackson said the logical solution is to look to nature’s self-sustaining eco­systems as models of peren­nial polyculture and survival, such as tropics and grass­lands. 
“Those … ecosystems are real economies. They use … sunlight and recycle materi­als,” Jackson said. “The ge­nius of the Kansas grasslands during the Dust Bowl years is that it survived, whereas [annual monoculture] crops died.” 
Jackson said exploring the potential of ecosystem agri­culture, or “agroecology,” as a model for sustainable ag­riculture presents a major challenge to human thinking, but its benefits could pro­vide solutions to agricultural problems. 
“If we look upward to the ecosystem level, there are an­swers to questions we haven’t 
learned to ask,” he said. “Since [Rene] Descartes and [Francis] Bacon, the hardest thing to overcome for our indus­trial minds … has been the reduc­tive approach to problems that pays no attention to emergent properties present at ev­ery level.” 
In order 
to reverse the destruction caused by current agricul­tural methods, Jackson said he and some of his colleagues in sustainable agriculture hope to implement sweeping changes in American farm­ing practices over the next 50 
years, with a goal of flippi ng grain per­centages to 80 percent perennial and 20 per­cent annual. 
Jackson said he has helped de­velop a 30­year mis­sion for a sustainable “green revo­lution” that would send 110 Ph.D­level sci­
entists to various locations around the globe to imple­ment these new agricultural practices. 
“The last green revolution gave us a tripling of yields, but its principles are not good,” he said. “The mission of the next synthesis is to move agriculture from an ex­tractive to a renewable econ­omy and rescue us from the fallen world.” 

Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
Warren 
continued from page 1 

coming here is how ideal that theater [Washington Hall] is,” he said. “It’s a wonderful theater. It’s just set up so well. In a lot of ways it’s a more beautiful theater and better accus­tomed for events than mod­ern theaters are.” 
Warren said he has more than half a million secrets in his home, coming from countries all over the world. 
“The fact that seven years later I’m still getting about 100 postcards every day from around the world for a total of over a half-million still surprises me to this day,” Warren said. 
Warren posts around 20 new “Sunday Secrets” to the PostSecret website ev­ery Sunday. The website re­ceives more than seven mil­lion hits a month. 
“Every postcard comes to my house, and I read every secret and I keep them all,” he said. “I think it’s a singu­lar, precious archive.” 
With so many secrets ar­riving, he said it’s difficult to select the weekly secrets he chooses to display. 
“It’s harder than you think, to select the weekly secrets,” he said. “And not just to select them, but to arrange them. I try and tell a different story every week with people’s secrets, con­necting them so that they’re not just twenty voices, but this complete conversation that’s greater than the sum of the postcards.” 
Including the website and all of the books, he said he has shared less than five percent of the secrets he has received, but he hopes the secrets he has shared make an impact. 
“If you open up your heart and mind to a secret, you’ll see a kernel of the truth that you can learn from,” he said at the event. 
Warren said he is now try­ing to find a way to share the secrets from the now-de­funct PostSecret App, which ran for three months but was shut down after misuse in the comments portion of the application. The applica­tion allowed users to submit secrets digitally, and more than 2 million secrets were shared in its limited time. 
“I just received a drive with all of the PostSecret App secrets on it,” he said. “It’s got three terabytes, and it took three days to trans­fer. I hope to have a book or a searchable database of the secrets.” 
No matter how the secrets are shared, Warren said the program has given him and countless others the ability to finally look at the secrets within themselves. 
“I think a part of the beau­ty of PostSecret is the cour­age people see in these vul­nerable secrets every week. I think that kind of courage is contagious,” he said. “When you see it, you feel it, and it inspires you to join the con­versation.” 
For more information on the project, visit www.post­secret.com. To mail Warren a secret, address a postcard to: Frank Warren, 13345 Copper Ridge Rd., German­town, MD 20874. 


Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

Romney moves closer to Republican nomination 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — After a three-month struggle, Mitt Romney edged into the mop-up phase of the race for the Republican presidential nomi­nation on Wednesday, buoyed by Newt Gingrich’s decision to scale back his campaign to the vanishing point and Rick Santorum’s statement that he would take the No. 2 spot on the party ticket in the fall. 
Romney campaigned by phone for support in next week’s Wisconsin primary while he shuttled from Cali­fornia to Texas on a fundrais­ing trip, praising Gov. Scott Walker, for “trying to rein in the excesses that have per­meated the public services union.” The governor faces a recall election in June after winning passage of state leg­islation vehemently opposed by organized labor. 
Romney aides eagerly spread the word that former Presi­dentGeorge H.W. Bush would bestow a formal endorsement on Thursday, although they declined to say whether for­mer President George W. Bush has been asked for a public show of support. 
Seven months before Elec­tion Day, there was ample evidence of a preparation gap with the Democrats. 
A spokesman at the Repub­lican National Committee said the party had recently opened campaign offices in three states expected to be battle­grounds this fall and would soon do the same in seven more. 
By contrast, Obama’s re­election campaign has 18 of­fices in Florida, nine in Michi­gan, a dozen in Ohio, 13 in Pennsylvania and seven in Nevada, according to officials. While Romney was campaign­ing in last winter’s Iowa cau­cuses, Democrats claimed to have made 350,000 calls to voters as part of an early or­ganizational effort. 
And while Romney is still raising money for the second half of the primary campaign, Obama recently reported $84 million in the bank for the general election. 


Not that Romney was leav­ing the primary wars behind. 
He and Restore Our Future, a super PAC that supports him, were outspending Santorum and his allies on television by a margin of more than 4-1, with an attack-heavy diet of television ads. 
There was no let-up in San­torum’s criticism of Romney, whom he said is “completely out of sync with America” and “uniquely disqualified” to lead the party against Presi­dent Barack Obama. 


Colorado blaze sparks action 
Associated Press 
CONIFER, Colo. — Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper on Wednesday suspended the use of state prescribed burns like the one that may have caused a deadly wildfire that destroyed dozens of homes near Denver. 
The Colorado State Forest Service says the 6-square-mile fire started after a controlled burn last week that was meant to reduce vegetation. Instead, the blaze went out of control Monday when high winds gusts blew embers across a contain­ment line and into unburned forest. 
Hickenlooper said the ban on such fires on state lands, in­cluding state parks, would be in effect until a review of the wildfire is complete. 
Also Wednesday, Colo­rado’s deputy state forester apologized for the fire. The Colorado State Forest Service announced that an ember ap­parently jumped a contain­ment line Monday and started the blaze. 
“This is heartbreaking, and we are sorry,” Duda said in a 


AP
statement. 

The ban doesn’t affect land A slurry bomber glides over the Lower North Fork wildfire as it burns controlled by the federal gov-southwest of Denver on Tuesday. ernment — which accounts for over a third of Colorado. for a woman missing in the fire who helps plan for prescribed However, Hickenlooper urged zone. Her home was among 27 burns, Jane Lopez, said the counties and federal agencies destroyed or damaged in the state usually performs them to also consider suspending blaze. only in spring and fall. Pre­such burns for now. The bodies of Sam Lamar Lu-scribed burns are planned as 
Meanwhile, some 400 fire-cas, 77, and Linda M. Lucas, 76, far as three years in advance, fighters from several states were found earlier this week she said, but they don’t go for-were focusing on building at their destroyed home. Their ward unless weather condi­containment lines around the cause of death was pending. tions meet requirements. She wildfire, which broke out Mon-Hickenlooper said he doesn’t said everything was done prop-day. Until now, the fire’s erratic blame some of the 900 evacu-erly. pattern has forced firefighters ated homeowners in the moun-“You don’t burn unless all to focus on protecting homes, tains southwest of Denver for the parameters are met,” Lo-not stopping the burn. being angry. pez said. She didn’t comment 
“We’re going to try to take a “Their houses have been de-on the governor’s planned burn bite out of this fire,” Jefferson stroyed. Their lives have been order but said, “We’re at the County sheriff’s spokeswoman changed forever. It’s not their end of the prescribed burn sea-Jacki Kelley said. fault,” Hickenlooper told KOA son anyway.” 
Air tankers dropped retar-radio. Conifer resident Don Heiden, dant and two National Guard Later Wednesday, some local who was displaced by the fire, helicopters dropped water sheriff’s deputies started tak-said he wasn’t ready to blame to assist firefighters on the ing homeowners of destroyed the government. ground. Smoke from the fire homes into the burn area to see “Accidents happen. If there created haze around Denver, what was left of their homes. was negligence, they’ll figure obscuring views of the Rocky On a tour for reporters, thin it out,” said Heiden, who was Mountains. white smoke rose from valleys. watching televised aerial shots 
As crews dug lines around Charred appliances were all to see if his home was still the fire’s perimeter, a search that remained of some homes. standing. “To me, it’s more of team was using dogs to look A Forest Service manager an act of God.” 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Dwindlingtalent, swellingattitude 
In case you have not heard, Tiger Woods is back — or so the “experts” say. They also said he was “back” after he took the lead in the final round of last year’s Masters (and then proceeded to choke it away.) He Joe Wirth was also “back” after he won the Sports Writer Chevron World Challenge this past December with a whopping 17 other players in the field. 
Now experts claim he is back after winning the Arnold Palmer Invita­tional last weekend, which only had two of the world’s top 10 players in the field. 
I understand that Tiger Woods is one of the few athletes who can transcend sports and bring in an en­tirely different audience to the game so he gets more hype both from the sports world and from the general media, but with this win, he now has as many wins on tour this year as George McNeil, yes, the George McNeil. 
So before everyone starts pencil­ing him in as the Masters’ favorite, let’s try to remember that there are other players with names like McIl­roy, Mickelson and Westwood who have had much stronger years to this point and who have much stronger major track records in recent sea­sons. 
The fact is, Tiger Woods will never be fully “back,” and sports fans have to accept that. He will never be the Tiger Woods of 2000 again. Heck, he will never be even the Tiger Woods of 2007 again. Long gone are the days of Tiger routing fields by ten strokes. At this stage of his career Tiger is what he is — a top 15 player who will win a few tournaments a year with maybe the occasional ma­jor. To think he will be as dominant as he once was is foolish. Tiger is 36 years old and, after multiple surger­ies on his knee and Achilles tendon, he is an old 36, and time is catching up. 
Tiger’s golf game may never come back, but, unfortunately, his whin­ing and temper tantrums on the course seem to be in full swing. Even in winning last week, anytime his shot was just slightly off, he would complain as if the “Golf Gods” were out to get him — it was never his fault. Instead of tipping his hat to the gallery after a shot, he is gener­ally cursing that the shot was not better. 
Some call that his competitive fire, I call it unprofessional. 
Tiger is consistently curt with media and his playing partners, and, despite their undying support, he shows little to no recognition of his fans. Tiger’s overall disregard for golf etiquette is embarrassing and off-putting. 
Do not get me wrong, I respect Tiger’s talent, but that is about all I respect about the man. Golf is traditionally the ultimate gentle­man’s sport, and Tiger certainly is no gentleman. 
Contact Joe Wirth at      jwirth@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The wrong side of history 
“A nation’s greatness is measured by how it treats its weakest members”. This quote by Mohandas Gandhi re­flects a belief held by most Americans that markets cannot always effectively allocate resources towards those who hold little market power, such as the Adam Newman sick, elderly and poor. Beginning Scientia with the Progres-Potentia Est sive Era in the early 1900s, American policy became more directed towards both protecting and assisting these Americans. The most significant steps came with the creation of Social Security (old age re­tirement insurance) in 1935, Medicare (health insurance for the elderly) in 1965 and Medicaid (health insurance for the poor and long term care insur­ance for the elderly) in 1965. 
At the time of their creation, these programs were extremely controver­sial. But due to their effectiveness at helping the disadvantaged, they have become wildly popular. This is why those (both Democrats and Repub­licans) who created Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid were on the “right side of history.” 
However, these programs will be­come dangerously costly over coming decades due to two trends. The first trend is the aging of the population. After WWII, there was a major in­crease in population growth where 80 million Americans were born between 1946 and 1964. These Americans are known as the “baby boom” generation. The first “boomers” turned 65 (hence becoming eligible for Social Security and Medicare) in 2011, and 10,000 will turn 65 every day for the next two decades. 
The second trend is the rising cost of health care. Over the past three de­cades, health care has grown roughly three percent faster than gross domes­tic product and will continue to grow at a slightly slower, but still unsustain­able pace over coming decades. This rate compounded over many decades will dramatically raise how much ev­ery American spends on health care. 
The combination of these two trends will cause spending on these programs to skyrocket. While projections are difficult to make because of differ­ent assumptions and uncertainty, the numbers are all bleak. The non-parti­san Congressional Budget Office (CBO) recently projected that by 2021, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and interest on the debt will take up nearly all tax revenue. By approximately 2050, Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid will take up all tax revenue, and by 2080, Medicare and Medicaid will take up all tax revenue. If these numbers do not scare you, I do not know what will. 
While there may be nothing more important to the fiscal future of the United States than to reform these pro­grams, there is nothing more difficult. The dependence that older Americans have on these programs, combined with their high participatory rates in elections and the unfortunate reality that older people can be easily fooled and scared by politicians have made reforming these programs the “third rail of American politics.” (Electricity runs through the third rail on a train track. If you touch it, you get electro­cuted.) The irony is that most reform proposals only affect those who are 55 or younger and preserve current ben­efits for anyone older. Even still, nearly every time that either party proposes reform, the opposing side, instead of proposing an alternative solution, works to vilify the proposal to gain the senior vote. 
As these programs, deemed unre­formable, grow and take up a larger and larger portion of the federal budget, lawmakers will most likely cut the “low-hanging fruit” in the budget-spending on critical investments like education, innovation, infrastructure and scientific research. Even though investment spending has fueled Ameri­can prosperity since its conception, its short-term payoff is small, making it very easy to cut relative to the dif­ficulty of reforming Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. To make cuts in these areas would be misguided as the world becomes more globalized, technologically advanced and competi­tive. 
As I said earlier, those who created Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid were on the right side of history for do­ing so. But if the status quo continues, and these programs go unreformed, America will accumulate fiscally un­sustainable amounts of debt as criti­cal investments are cut. As a result, America will begin the slow but steady decline over the next half-century to­wards a fiscal future that would make even the Greeks cringe. Then, when today’s old are gone and today’s young are old, future generations will reopen the history books and curse those who refused to reform Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid to the wrong side of history. 
Adam Newman is a junior                finance major. He can be reached at               anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“This time, like all times, is a very good one, if we but know what to do with it.” 
Ralph Waldo Emerson Essayist & poet 

WEEKLY POLL 

What did you think of the 
Third Eye Blind concert? 
It was awesome! I went for Hoodie Allen I didn’t get a ticket Who’s Third Eye Blind? 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Thursday, March 29, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
The Syrian crisis 
Chaos once again reigns in the Middle East as Syria is engulfed in rebellion against the feared Assad regime. For years, Bashur al-Assad and his family have oppressed the Syrian people and have fomented vio­lence in the region Mark Easley to maintain power. Now in the wake of Elephant in the Arab Spring, the Room public revolt has boiled over and violence has erupted as the people try to rid themselves of Assad. More than 9,000 people have died since the uprising started a year ago. 
The United States already has had the green light for war in Syria for quite some time. We not only have an obli­gation to stop Assad from killing his own people, but the Syrian government is also responsible for the direct and indirect deaths of U.S. servicemen in Iraq during the Iraq War. Hundreds of Syrian foreign fighters poured into Iraq to wage jihad against the United States. Money, guns and bombs also passed through the border to aid militias and insurgents fighting against U.S. forces. And for all the world knows, Saddam Hussein’s alleged weapons of mass destruction could have been moved to Syria before the invasion of Iraq began. 
Assad and his government are guilty of crimes against humanity, being a state sponsor of terrorism and acts of war against the United States and Iraq. For even more icing on the cake, the Assad regime has also caused serious trouble in Lebanon with its occupa­tion of the country from 1975 to 2005 and aiding the terrorist organization Hezbollah. This meddling has caused conflicts with Israel that has made the people of Lebanon and Israel suffer.  
Assad has been an enemy of free people since he took power and he rightfully deserves a spot in the axis of evil. 
What complicates the situation is more external than internal. While Syria is heavily armed and well funded, I have no doubts the U.S. military will wipe the floor with their defenses and bring Assad to justice. These paper tiger regimes in the Middle East simply can’t stand up toe-to-toe with the U.S. in a fight. What is troubling is the signifi­cant Russian and Chinese presence in the country. Both countries are there to increase their access to resources as well as solidify their sphere of influence in the region. Some fear that engaging and removing Assad militarily could cause some backlash from one or both of the countries, perhaps even a bold military response. 
President Obama certainly doesn’t want to deal with a conflict against two of our biggest rivals (in an election year nonetheless,) so for this reason alone it is unlikely we will see U.S. and interna­tional forces deployed in Syria.  
However, a braver man would be able to call that bluff. Just as we were near powerless to stop the Russian invasion of Georgia in 2008, Russia and China would similarly be powerless and fool­ish to stop an invasion of Syria. With the backing of the international community and strategic deals to appease Russia and China, it is very possible to achieve a regime change and return peace to Syria. Would I trust Barrack Obama to do it successfully? If Egypt and Libya are any indicators — No way, Jose!  
It doesn’t look like help is coming any time soon for the people of Syria, and for that I am truly sorry. 
Mark Easley is a senior computer science major. He can be contacted at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessar­ily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Monologues to dialogue 
I acted in “Show Some Skin: The Race Mono­logues,” and I had the privilege to embody an anony­mous submission from the Notre Dame community in front of over 750 students, faculty, family and friends. On behalf of everyone involved with “Show Some Skin,” I offer my sincerest gratitude to you who came out on Friday and Saturday — many of you sitting on the Carey Auditorium steps and filling the aisles — to support us and learn about our cause. We also thank the faculty who wrote the “Reactions to ‘Race’” letter to the editor in Tuesday’s edition of The Observer. 
That being said, I am surprised and disappointed that the only mention in The Observer about “Show Some Skin” — a student-run production that gave credibility to the fledgling racial dialogue happen­ing on campus —  came from a faculty letter to the editor. In light of the ASA and BSA and Travyon Martin incidents, “Show Some Skin” couldn’t have been timelier. However, if we are to improve racial relations on campus, our primary media outlet, The Observer, cannot simply publish an article about a student government-run town hall meeting and then stop paying attention. 
Having gotten both positive reviews and construc­tive criticism for “Show Some Skin” from post-performance surveys, Facebook wall comments and word-of-mouth, I hoped that The Observer would have written a review, summary, interview or edito­rial and open the discussion to those who were not able to attend the performance. Not everybody agrees that we need to have racial dialogue on campus, but ignoring this performance only precludes progress and frustrates those invested, including the directors who worked on it for over a year and counting. 
After dealing with a very real and raw monologue, written by someone from my own beloved dorm whose identity I do not know, I hope that others at this University are more open to hearing and accepting others’ stories, starting with the very media in which we are to find our voice. I am sure the courageous people who shared a piece of their souls in the form of a monologue would agree with me. 
Kristina Flathers 
freshman Lewis Hall Mar. 28 

South America, anyone? 
The end of the year is approaching, and I am willing to bet there is at least one other senior out there who doesn’t have definite plans for after graduation. Well fear not fellow nomad, I’m here to propose a so­lution for you. I am looking for someone to accompany me as I backpack through South America. I plan on leaving the first week of October and will tentatively travel for about a year. I am not looking for someone to travel the whole time, just long enough to assuage my parents’ worries. If you don’t already have plans, this is an excellent opportunity to do some volunteer work, experience new cultures, improve your Spanish and cross some things off the ol’ bucket list. Equipped with a backpack and a tent, the opportunities are endless. I’m searching for someone who is adventurous, so I’ll leave my proposal short and sweet — which should be more than adequate for the true adventure enthusiast. 
Please email me at acarro01@saintmarys.edu if you are interested or have any questions. 
Peace. 
Alicia Carroll 
senior St. Mary’s Mar. 28 
UWIRE 

Google Play could be new competition for Apple 
Recently Google replaced its old Android Market iTunes Cloud does not actually store media in the with the shiny new Google Play. Whereas the old cloud. Google Play marks the first major attempt Android Market was centered (obviously) on Android at omni-entertainment streamed strictly from the phones, Google Play sits dead-center on the Google cloud. toolbar used by PCs and smartphones alike. iTunes will not be quivering in its boots quite yet. 
The service offers music, While Google Play talks big (offering “millions of movies, books and games in Ryan Kindel songs and books” and “thousands of movies”), its one online marketplace. While selection compared to Apple’s is pretty weak, and obviously somewhat aping Daily Trojan users who want e-books or movies will more likely iTunes, Google Play differs in turn to a service built specifically for that medium. one major way from Apple’s mega-lucrative media And competitors can take comfort too in the fact that service: Google Play stores all your media in the Google’s ambitious side projects often fizzle. (Who cloud, i.e., on the Internet, so you never have to remembers Google Wave?) download that song or game or book or whatever you But then Google has never been a company one want to have. You can simply stream your whatever sneezes at. If Google Play gets some traction now, it of choice from the web, without ever properly down-could become a formative milestone in modern en-loading it to your computer. tertainment, the final step away from physically hav-
Google Play is not the first cloud-based entertain-ing one’s music toward having a license to hear it. ment service. Netflix and Hulu have transformed the entertainment industry with their online subscrip-This article originally ran in the March 27 tion-based video-streaming services. With iTunes version of The Daily Trojan, serving the University of Cloud, Apple let users sync media across all their Southern California. newfangled gizmos. Netflix and Hulu, however, have The views expressed in this column are those of the limited themselves to movies and TV shows, and author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




By COURTNEY ECKERLE their home state, with the first Scene Writer single “California” an ode to it. 
Vasquez’s backwoods-bar-

Trashcan lids and youthful jukebox howling brings enough exuberance gave Delta Spirit of the blues to “California” both acclaim and a sense of to carry along current fans, destiny when they first hit the jumping up and down the musi­scene in 2006. With hype for cal scale like a raspy Tarzan. their third and latest full-It doesn’t hurt that he has an length album “Delta Spirit” ideal look to go along with his snowballing from a success-haunting voice either, like a 
Why fairytales? Why now? ful SXSW appearance and swarthier Stevie Ray Vaughn. 
Pop culture tends to follow tour with My Morning Jacket, “Money Saves” has a rhythm 
trends. Consumers and pro-it seems as though the band and chord progression with 
ducers alike latch onto ideas might finally break into main-edge that is reminiscent of 
they like. Consumers eat up stream consciousness. previous works, specifically 
all the movies, TV shows There have been a few set-“Bushwick Blues.” Starting 
and other paraphernalia backs, including a lackluster off with a high pitched tongue 
that businesses and studios “History from Below” sopho-roll, “Telling the Mind” is also 
churn out. This cycle con-more album and a brief sojourn a more familiar track with its 
tinues until the current big with trio Middle Brother for out of control pace and creative 
thing runs lead singer Matt Vasquez. arrangement. 
its course The venture was a singer/ The album’s opening track, 
and the songwriter project with Taylor “Empty House,” is like run-
public Goldsmith and Deer Tick’s John ning in slow motion. You know 
finds McCauley. it is actually moving quickly, 
something But armed with new guitar-but you feel it very slowly. It is 
new inter­ist Will McLaren, the band set without a doubt one of the most 
esting. to work in Woodstock, N.Y., on compelling tracks on the al-
That this album. bum. The band champions the 
former Last year, the band told Roll-blue collar worker over a great 
current ing Stone they were sick of be-guitar hook with the opening 
big thing storylines and bad acting, the It’s hard to find those stories ing shoved into the Americana line, “Glinting gems, in the con-
is still new fairy-tale movement seems heartening when they have that genre. They spoke of incorpo-crete I paved / One every couple 
trying to to be headed that way. fantastical element — you know rating into this album their of feet / They got mixed up, in 
hang on: The problem is that people it’s not real life, so there’s little “love of hip-hop, the ‘90s pro-the lyme and the sand / Nobody 
vampires. have trouble finding a new spin hope that it can happen to you. gressive production” and find-noticed, but me!” 
That new big thing people to put on these old stories. Put-This is, however, a national ing slow jams “closer to Montell Considering Delta Spirit’s ini­
are engrossing themselves ting them in modern context trend, so clearly the pop cul-Jordan than Neil Young.” tial appeal with their fresh and 
in now: fairytales. only goes so far. ture business is doing some-Although they were among creative trashcan banging and 
From “Nosferatu” (1922) to “Enchanted” (2007) did a thing right. NBC’s “Grimm” the best of Americana bands, exuberant “I Think I’ve Found 
“Buffy the Vampire Slayer” good job of bridging that gap, does a relatively good job of this determination for genre It EP” sound, this album comes 
(1997-2003), vampires have but mostly because it was a putting a new spin on the fairy growth produced a solid album as a mild disappointment. The 
always held a degree of children’s movie, and so the tale story. It combines the with perhaps more general songs aren’t always ideal for 
popular interest. But when writers could take certain always-popular crime drama appeal. Vasquez’s voice, but that comes 
teenage and young adult liberties.And that’s one of the genre with the new fairy tale However, the band may have off well, as more importance 
girls opened the first book of problems with this genre. It is trend, which is unique and put aside some of their unique placed on a collaboration of 
Stephenie Meyer’s “Twilight” too easy for the plot to get too entertaining. The highlight voice. Most of the songs feel band taste than strategy on 
series in 2005, pop culture ridiculous and magical that the of this trend so far, though, like televisions songs — they how best to display him. 
was changed forever. Well, film or show becomes childish. will be “Snow White and the work well in the background There are more ballads than 
at least for the next few For example, look at “Mirror, Huntsman,” which opens June because they don’t distract up-tempo heart kicking songs 
years. Mirror,” Julia Roberts’ new-1. Charlize Theron is terrify-from the scene too much. This that gave the band their niche. 
But now it seems, after est movie, which hits theaters ing yet compelling as the Evil is a real departure from previ-However, it may serve as the 
two popular TV shows and Friday.It’s a new take on Snow Queen, and the plot twist of ous albums centered on rowdy, impetus to get the band the 
as the last “Twilight” movie White, but based on the trail-the huntsman looks appeal-gut bursting howling from attention and appeal they need 
comes out, the trend is com-ers, it seems to take on too ing, especially with Chris Vasquez. to indoctrinate new listeners 
ing to an end, to the delight much. It wants to appeal to too Hemsworth as the Huntsman. The band has said that this with the Delta Spirit. The band 
of some and the sorrow of big of an audience and in doing Kristen Stewart as Snow White album is its first eponymous members made this album, for 
others. Don’t fear though. so loses whatever charm it had. is disappointing, however, but album because it has finally better or worse, for themselves 
For those who don’t want to It has devolved into purely a hopefully she won’t bring down found its voice. The name — a modern rarity that should 
leave the fantasy world yet, children’s movie, which is un-the whole movie. draws up images of a spooky be applauded. 
the pop culture world has fortunate as it has Roberts’ big As a trend, pop culture could deep south of blues and hoo 
a new trend for you: fairy name and talent. ABC’s “Once do worse than fairy tales. doo. “Delta Spirit” sounds much Contact Courtney Eckerle at 
tales. In this genre, you don’t Upon A Time” also fell into this There was obviously a reason more like something out of cecker01@saintmarys.edu 
have to limit yourself to just trap of trying to do too much, we all loved them as children, 
vampires and werewolves. and the plotlines just got lost. so if anything, we’ll tune in as 
Now you can run the gamut But even if a movie or TV show adults just to reminisce. But we 
with every sort of imaginary doesn’t totally lose itself, put-can only hope that this trend 
and fantastical creature ting these stories we grew up does not end up with Kris-
you have missed since your with into modern context often ten Stewart and a sickly pale 
parents stopped telling you don’t resonate with viewers. Robert Pattinson as the faces of 
bedtime stories. In these times of economic this trend. 
The question, though, is hardship and high divorce 
whether this trend is any rates, audiences are less will-Contact Mary Claire 
better than the vampires. ing to shell out upwards of O’Donnell at 
Both Hollywood and the $10 to see yet another rags-modonne5@nd.edu 
small screen are trying to-riches or love-at-first-sight The views expressed in this 
to accommodate this new story when they themselves are column are those of the author 
trend. But just like vampires having trouble finding a job or and not necessarily those of The 
got old fast because of tired suffering through divorce. Observer. 


Mary Claire O’Donnell 
Scene Writer 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 



Thursday, March 29, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 13 
“Mission Impossible: Ghost  Notre Dame Chorale Spring  “A Separation”  Guest Organ Recital Series  
Protocol” SUB Movie When: 10 p.m. Where: 101 DeBartolo Hall  Concert When: 8 p.m. Where: DPAC  When: 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Where: DPAC  When: 2:30 p.m. and 5 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $5  
How Much: $3  How Much: $3  How Much: $3  
Tom  Cruise  is  as  Tom  Notre  Dame’s  own  Cho- This Iranian drama, win- The Department of Music  
Cruise-y as ever, but be that  rale will perform its annual  ner of the Academy Award for  presents John Thiessen, a  
as it may, this movie is still  spring concert Friday night  Best Foreign Language Film,  Baroque trumpeter who the  
the first “Mission Impossible”  in the DeBartolo Performing  follows a married couple liv- New York Times described  
sequel to match the excite- Arts Center, a performance  ing  in  Tehran  as  the  wife  as “brilliant,” Craig Cramer,  
ment and quality of the 1996  that will range in works from  wants  to  leave the city but  organist, and Keith Collins,  
original. The entry of Jer­ the Renaissance to those of  the husband feels he needs to  Baroque bassoonist, Sunday  
emy Renner into the series  contemporary composers. In  stay in order for his ailing fa­ in DPAC. The performance  
and the expansion of Simon  May of 2011, the Chorale per­ ther. The wife’s attempt to file  will include pieces from some  
Pegg’s  role  put  this  movie  formed for the Pope and the  for divorce is denied, and the  of the greatest artists of the  
over the edge into the “must  Cardinals in Rome. If they’re  film depicts the heartbreak- Baroque era.  
see” category.  good enough for the Pope,  ing events that ensue during  
they’re good enough.  the couple’s separation.  


By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Senior Scene Writer 

The world of Westeros is looking stark. Or, rather, Stark. 
HBO’s hit fantasy series “Game of Thrones” returns April 1 for its second season which promises warring families fighting for the throne — including the aforementioned Starks — and as much intrigue, lust and political conniving as the beloved first season. 
That word “fantasy” may have turned you off from “Game of Thrones” almost immediately. But if you’re still reading, rest assured that the show — based on the “A Song of Ice and Fire” series of novels by George R.R. Martin — is much more than greasy men in armor storm­ing castles and non-human creatures wreaking havoc on medieval-esque towns. 
“Game of Thrones” will appeal to the thirst for epic fantasy of “Lord of the Rings” fans, but with a much grittier and less family-friendly tone. The show com­bines this with the character drama of “Mad Men,” the political machinations of “The West Wing” and the, um, sensual­ity of “True Blood” for something that is far more than just fantasy. 
Be prepared, though. There are prac­tically an encyclopedia’s worth of char­acters (with tons more coming in Season Two) living in this complex kingdom of geographic jurisdictions, each with their own distinctive brand of politics and jus­tice. The fight for the throne is the prod­uct of a long history of coups, battles, murder and exile with no clear end in sight. 
Let’s not forget, too, that “Game of Thrones” is violent, bloody and only at home on this premium pay cable chan­nel. 
But, complicated and coarse as it is, “Game of Thrones” is one of the finest shows on television today. Impeccably written, each episode does full justice to the source material while exploiting its specifically visual medium to expand on, rather than just reiterate, the original stories. 

The cast is filled to the brim with in­credible talent, both old and new, though don’t expect to recognize most of them. Sean Bean, who played Boromir in “Lord of the Rings,” does lead the cast as Ned Stark. 
With a fine attention to detail and an emphasis on location shooting, rather than a reliance on CGI effects to create a backdrop, “Game of Thrones” pulls you into a new world at once familiar and foreign. Its vivid depictions of the fro­zen North, the sun-baked South and the deserts of exile are magical in a wholly 
realistic way. 
All this has contrib­uted to “Thrones’” critical adoration, picking up major Emmy — which no­toriously shuns “fan­tasy” series — and Golden Globe nomi­nations and wins in every area. 
“Game of Thrones” isn’t just a critical favorite, though. It earns big audience numbers for HBO and has set a record for HBO’s DVD and Blu-Ray sales. Regardless 

Photo Courtesy of HBO.com 
of its high quality of production and its critical acclaim, “Game of Thrones” is ultimately just really good, entertaining TV. 
And that holds true whether you like fantasy or not. 
It should also be noted that, while “Thrones” does participate in a lot of the sensationalized, lascivious behav­ior that HBO shows are often known for, it also presents some of the strongest, most compelling female characters on contemporary television. In fact, one could easily argue that it is these very women — and not the men — that drive the show. 
“Game of Thrones” returns to TV screens on Sunday, April 1. If you are new to Westeros, you’ll probably want to catch yourself up on the many events of Season One before diving into Season Two. With only 10 hour-long episodes in Season One, though, and compelling story arcs and cliffhangers to drive the narrative along, that shouldn’t be too difficult. 
Luckily, HBO will be playing all 10 episodes on HBO2 leading up to the pre­miere. 
Just remember: In the game of thrones, you win or you die. And that where once came winter now comes war. 

Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Magic fits in perfectly as new Dodgers owner 
Five months ago, I proclaimed the Wicked Witch of the West was dead. Who would have known that it would take this long for him to melt away as if it were Magic? 
No more “Who’s your owner?” chants, no more ESPYs jokes and no more fan boycotts. Just say the Magic word. 
What the Dodgers needed was a return to their roots, that laid-back, yet competitive fire stoked by the O’Malley family back in the day before we let corporate America control the biggest team in the country’s second biggest market. And if you ask anyone about the figure who epitomizes Los Angeles sports, that answer is Magic Johnson. 
Don’t say baseball teams are businesses. Ask any owner in the game today where his/her intentions are and the response will be to win. Some are just louder than others. And ask them what made them buy a franchise, and they will say it was for the challenge. 
These guys have made money their entire life, probably to the point where it starts to get bor­ing doing the same thing. And if you look at those who possibly tried to make it a business — Frank McCourt, Fred Wilpon, Tom Hicks — everything turned on them. 
Don’t say baseball teams are entertainment, either. Don’t lump sports in general with movies, music or shows. Who goes to a three-hour long, nine-inning baseball game to be entertained? In fact, the com­mon complaint about baseball is that it is too long or too boring. Doesn’t sound like entertain­ment to me. 
So if it’s not for making money and it’s not just for having fun, why did his group invest an astounding $2 billion? Magic did this to win, the desire that has driven him in everything that he has done. He wanted to blow away his competition for the title of owner, and bring this team a championship — thus going down in history as the greatest Angeleno ever. 
Critics and economists blast the world-record $2 billon price tag, but this is not about busi­ness. And if you argue that Mag­ic’s group made a bad business decision, look at the potential $3-5 billion television deal on the table from FOX or Time Warner. 

But to put this deal in per­spective, the last break-the­bank sale in baseball was the Cubs in 2009 for $845 million. That shows two billion reasons how much this team means to Magic’s group. At that point, it’s like a seven-footer in basketball. After 6-foot-5, everything is just plain tall. Likewise, after one billion dol­lars, it is just a ton of money. The price of winning becomes priceless, as it should be. 
And since we are talking in basketball terms, Magic’s best assists have yet to come. 
Magic has way too much at stake to make this a business decision. As Wale puts it, he’s just trying to be legendary, and his reputation in L.A. stretches from Inglewood to 
L.A. Live and now to Chavez Ravine. 
And the best part is he knows that if he messes this up, L.A. turns from the city that made him a star to the one that runs him out of town. 
But let’s not forget he did this with help. 
Mark Walter and Guggen­heim Partners (a $100-billion financial services firm) will provide the financial backing, but Walter has made it clear that he wants to win a champi­onship above all else. 
Meanwhile, Stan Kasten remains the underdog of the whole situation. Thrown to the background while Magic takes the spotlight and Walter pulls out the checkbook, Kasten built the Braves dynasty of the 1990s with Greg Maddux, Tom Glavine, John Smoltz and Chip­per Jones. Atlanta won more in his tenure than any team in baseball and now he has Cy Young winner Clayton Ker­shaw and unofficial 2011 MVP Matt Kemp to build a winner. 
People who know me well know two concrete things: I can’t carry a conversation too far if it is not about sports and I love my city. The Dodgers hit each spot and always have for me and millions of others. 
LA is sunshine, beaches and a laid-back attitude. And now you can finally throw the Dodgers back into that defini­tion. 
Poof, just like Magic. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Johnson, Kasten buy Dodgers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — One Los An­geles institution is buying another. 
A group that includes former Lakers star Magic Johnson and longtime base­ball executive Stan Kasten agreed Tuesday night to buy the Dodgers from Frank Mc-Court for a record $2 bil­lion. 
The price would shatter the mark for a sports fran­chise. Stephen Ross paid $1.1 billion for the NFL’s Mi­ami Dolphins in 2009, and in England, Malcolm Glazer and his family took over the Manchester United soccer club in 2005 in a deal then valued at $1.47 billion. 
Mark Walter, chief execu­tive officer of the financial services firm Guggenheim Partners, would become the controlling owner. 
The deal, revealed about five hours after Major League Baseball owners ap­proved three finalists for an intended auction, is one of several steps toward a sale of the team by the end of April. It is subject to ap­proval in federal bankrupt­cy court. 
“I am thrilled to be part of the historic Dodger fran­chise and intend to build on the fantastic foundation laid by Frank McCourt as we drive the Dodgers back to the front page of the sports section in our wonderful community of Los Angeles,” Johnson said in a statement. 
As part of the agreement, the Dodgers said McCourt and “certain affiliates of the purchasers” would ac­quire the land surrounding Dodger Stadium, including its parking lots, for $150 million. 
“If they invested that much money, I’m sure they’ll invest to get us a winner,” said Tommy Las­orda, the Dodgers’ retired Hall of Fame manager. “I wish them all the luck, and I admire them. I know both of them. I know Magic from the day he came into Los An­geles as a basketball player for the Lakers.” 
The acquiring group, called Guggenheim Base­ball Management, has sev­eral other investors, among them Mandalay Entertain­ment chief executive Peter Guber, Guggenheim Part­ners president Todd Boehly and Bobby Patton, who op­erates oil and gas proper­ties among his investments. Kasten is the former presi­dent of the Atlanta Braves and Washington Nationals. 
“I am truly honored to have partnered with such talented individuals and to be associ­ated with the Dodgers orga­nization,” said Walter. “We look forward to building upon the legacy of the Dodgers and providing long-term stabil­ity to one of the most revered franchises in baseball.” 
The 52-year-old Johnson played 13 seasons for the Los Angeles Lakers, winning five NBA championships and three MVP awards in a Hall of Fame career. 
He retired from the NBA in 1991 after being diag­nosed with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. He briefly came out of retirement during the 1995-96 season and had a short stint coaching the Lak­ers. Since leaving basketball, he has been very successful in business, investing in movie theaters, a production com­pany and restaurants. 
He has also been an activist in the fight against HIV. 
“I’m upset he didn’t cut me in,” current Lakers star Kobe Bryant said. “I’m going to have to talk to him about that.” 
McCourt paid $430 mil­lion in 2004 to buy the team, Dodger Stadium and 250 acres of land that include the parking lots, from the Fox di­vision of Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp., a sale that left the team with about $50 mil­lion in cash at the time. The team’s debt stood at $579 mil­lion as of January, according to a court filing, so McCourt stands to make hundreds of millions of dollars even after a $131 million divorce pay­ment to former wife Jamie, taxes and legal and banking fees. 


Kasten is expected to wind up as the team’s top day-to­day executive. 
The other two finalists were: 
— 
Stan Kroenke, whose family owns the NFL’s St. Louis Rams, the NBA’s Denver Nuggets, the NHL’s Colorado Avalanche and Major League Soccer’s Colorado Rapids. He also is majority shareholder of Arsenal in the English Pre­mier League. 

—
 Steven Cohen, founder of the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors and a new limited partner of the New York Mets; biotechnology entrepreneur Patrick Soon-Shiong; and agent Arn Tellem of Wasser­man Media Group. 


It remains to be seen wheth­er Major League Baseball will challenge the deal in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Dela­ware, where the case is before Judge Kevin Gross. 
Under an agreement reached by MLB and McCourt in November, a private auc­tion was to be held among the finalists and McCourt was to select the winner by Sunday. The sales agreement is to be submitted to the bankruptcy court by April 6, ahead of a hearing seven days later, and the sale completed by April 30, the day McCourt is to make a divorce settlement. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
FOR RENT  PERSONAL  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t  Take Me Out to the Ballgame  Take me out to the ball game,  Katie Casey saw all the games,  
go it alone. Notre Dame has many  By Jack Norworth  Take me out with the crowd;  Knew the players by their first  
resources in place to assist you.  Buy me some peanuts and  names.  
House for rent. GREAT LOCATION  A Baby is a Blessing: Adoption  If you or someone you love needs  Katie Casey was baseball mad,  Cracker Jack,  Told the umpire he was wrong,  
- close to campus. 3BR $600 per  We’re both educators who value  confidential support or assistance,  Had the fever and had it bad.  I don’t care if I never get back.  All along, Good and strong.  
bedroom. Utilities included. Call  learning, family and our happy 8  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  Just to root for the home town  Let me root, root, root for the  When the score was just two to  
574-272-2940  yr marriage. We’ll give your child  For more information, visit ND’s  crew,  home team,  two,  
a happy home, a stay-at-home  website at:  Ev’ry sou, Katie blew.  If they don’t win, it’s a shame.  Katie Casey knew what to do,  
mom and a large, devoted Catholic  For it’s one, two, three strikes,  Just to cheer up the boys she  
family (9 cousins and growing!).  On a Saturday her young beau  you’re out,  knew,  
We very much look forward to  Called to see if she’d like to go  At the old ball game.  She made the gang sing this song:  
talking to you. Call Kim & Robert  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  To see a show, but Miss Kate said  
(855) 788-2810.  “No, I’ll tell you what you can do:”  [Chorus]  

WTA 

Williams elimated in quarterfinals, ready for rest 
Associated Press She rose slowly to play the fi­
nal two games and lost both, but

 KEY BISCAYNE, Fla.  — Venus grinned as she walked to the exit, Williams sagged in the wooden perhaps because she was headed changeover chair as if it were a for a well-deserved rest. cushy recliner, her head tilted Weary after winning three con-back, her tank on empty. secutive three-set matches, Wil­liams was eliminated Wednesday by Agnieszka Radwanska in the quarterfinals of the Sony Ericsson Open, 6-4, 6-1. 

“It was disappointing not to be able to feel my best today,” Wil­liams said. “I was able to keep it close in the first set and try dif­ferent strategies, but it was defi­nitely a mental battle, and today I didn’t conquer the mental part of it.” 
Williams’ serve lacked its usual velocity, and by the final game she wasn’t even chasing shots in the corner. The tournament was her first since the U.S. Open last Au­gust, where she withdrew after being diagnosed with a fatigue-causing autoimmune disease. 
“It has been a great tourna­ment,” she said. “Obviously I’m disappointed and would have liked to have gone further, but it’s a great start.” 

Eager to keep points short in the 85-degree sunshine, Wil-rors to 10 for Radwanska, and liams charged the net often but won only five of 26 points on her frequently had to lunge for shots. second serve. She committed 38 unforced er-“It was pretty hot out there,” Radwanska said. “Maybe that was why she didn’t look that good.” 


In the men’s quarterfinals, 2009 champion Andy Murray overcame an upset stomach and early deficit to beat No. 9-seeded Janko Tipsarevic 4-6, 6-3, 6-4. 
Two Williamses were elimi­nated in 18 hours. Younger sister Serena lost Tuesday night to for­mer No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki. 
Venus needed a wild card to en­ter the tournament because she’s ranked 134th. The three-time Olympian’s goal has been improve her ranking enough to qualify for the London Games, and she’s pro­jected to climb next week back into the top 90. 
In the past, the cutoff for mak­ing the Olympics has been around 68th. Teams will be chosen based on rankings in early June. 
Radwanska, ranked a career-best No. 4, advanced to the Key Biscayne semifinals for the first time. She’s 0-4 this year against top-ranked Victoria Azarenka and 24-0 against everyone else. 
She beat Williams in 2006 but had since lost five consecutive meetings. 
“Of course she had some time off last couple of months,” Rad­wanska said. “But she’s still a great player. I really had to play very well today to beat her.” 
Williams overcame a match point in the third round against Aleksandra Wozniak on Sunday night, and said she was up until 4 
a.m. afterward. She recovered to beat No. 15-seeded Ana Ivanovic on Monday. 
Williams said her ailment re­quires her to save all her energy for tennis, but she strayed from that approach with a day off Tues­day. 
“I should have rested more probably,” Williams said. “After a while you start to feel like maybe everything’s behind you. I defi­nitely learned maybe if you’re do­ing something right, don’t change it.” 
Her energy reserve appeared low from the start of the quar­terfinal, and she lost the first seven points. Radwanska took advantage of Williams’ lethargy by hitting several drop shots for winners and pouncing on weak second serves. 
When Williams had a chance at an easy overhead, she walked up to the ball flat-footed. Facing break point early in the second set, she mustered only a 72-mph first serve, well below her norm of 110 or more. 
Williams lost the final six points, dumped her last shot into the net and began looking ahead to the clay-court season. She plans to play next week at Charleston, S.C. 

SUMMER OLYMPICS 

Deadly shootings in France prompt updated security 
Associated Press 
LONDON — Britain has planned for a dizzying array of security nightmares sur­rounding the Olympics, in­cluding a coordinated attack like the London transit bomb­ings, a dirty bomb or a cyber­attack. 
In the wake of France’s deadly shootings, one sce­nario weighing heavily on the minds of security officials is the self-start­er operating with little or no help from has the capability to listen in on people’s telephone con­versations and monitor their online communications. Sur­veillance units have also been attached to troops serving in places such as Afghanistan, specifically to gather intel­ligence that may lead back to Britain. 
There are also special teams to look at suspect finan­cial transactions — an aspect of anti-terror strategy that gained more attention fol­lowing last year’s terror land, the Republic of Ireland ligence to suggest a cred­and parts of the U.K. ible and specific threat to the Inside Britain’s domestic games, officials have spent 


spy agency of MI5, a clock counts down the minutes before the torch arrives in England. 
“To ter­rorists, the Oly mpi cs present a golden op­portunity be­cause they know they will get the world’s at­tention,” said Benotman, who now works as an 

“To terrorists, the Olympics present a golden opportunity because they know they will get the world’s attention.” 
Noman Benotman analyst Quilliam Foundation 
years taking precautions for the Olym­pics since London won the bid the day before the 2005 at­tacks. 
Britain is already known as a leader in ‘Big Brother’ surveillance 
— there are nearly 30 CCTV cam­eras near George Or­well’s house 
analyst for the London-based Quilliam Foundation. “It doesn’t really matter whether they kill seven or 70.” 
Although there is no intel­alone in North London. The author of “1984” warned more than six decades ago of a time when it would be nearly im­possible to escape from the watchful eyes of the state. 
For the games, more cam­eras will be added to Britain’s 
4.3 million, and some will be used in conjunction with advanced facial recognition software and databases that can match vehicle registration numbers to names. 
Olympic venues have also been designed with security threats in mind — special shatterproof glass has been installed, structures have been built with advice from explosives experts and path­ways have been laden with curves and gaps deliberately meant to slow down a poten­tial attacker. 
“If you look at the Inter­net, there are web sites call­ing exactly for these types of lone-wolf attacks,” said Rob Wainwright, head of The Hague-based Europol, which will be sharing databases with law enforcement officials during the Olympics. 

“Every Olympic venue will 
others. attacks in 
And, they be specially protected, but Norway. admit, there of course, when you are in Right ist are limits to the street, people waiting extremist what securi-for the bus waiting to Anders Beh­ty personnel go to an Olympic venue ring Breivik’s can do. set off a
could be a target.” 
“You can-2,100-pound not exclude (950 -kilo ­
Denis Oswald 
somethi ng gram) fertil­similar,” said izer bomb 
coordination commission head Denis Os-International Olympic in the heart wald, head Comimttee of Oslo that 
of the In­ternational Olympic Com­mittee’s coor­dination commission for the London Games. 
“Every Olympic venue will be specially protected, but of course, when you are in the street, people waiting for the bus waiting to go to an Olym­pic venue could be a target.” 
Mohamed Merah — a 23-year-old Muslim extremist who says he trained in Afghan­istan — claimed responsibility for killing paratroopers, Jew­ish children and a rabbi in a weeklong shooting rampage in the French city of Toulouse. Police shot him dead last week after a 32-hour standoff. 
French politicians have painted him as a “lone wolf” killer. But police are look­ing for possible accomplices, and suspicions grew that he had help when it turned out an apparent video of the at­tacks sent to the Al-Jazeera news network was not sent by Merah. 
French officials say Merah moved in extremist Muslim circles in France and had been to Afghanistan twice. He told police he had trained in the Pakistani militant stronghold of Waziristan. He also had a long criminal record and a brother who had been sus­pected in a 2007 network that sent militant fighters to Iraq. 
But French officials say there wasn’t enough evidence of a threat to put Mohamed Merah under regular surveil­lance. Olympic security offi­cials face a similar problem with some Islamic radicals in Britain ahead of the games. 
“The reality is that there are hosts of people like this and most of them will never do anything,” said a British gov­ernment official who spoke on condition of anonymity to the AP because of the sensitivity of his work. “You can’t follow everyone around.” 
That doesn’t mean Britain isn’t one of the most high-se­curity nations in the Western world. 
Since British suicide bomb­ers killed 52 people during rush-hour attacks on July 7, 2005, MI5 and police coun­terterrorism units have vastly boosted their intelligence net­work. The country’s surveil­lance agency, known as GCHQ, killed eight 
people be­
fore going on 
a shooting rampage at youth camp that left 69 dead. Breivik’s name came up on a list of people who had transferred money to Polish chemical firm under scrutiny in an international anti-terror initiative — but Norwegian authorities didn’t investigate further because his order was so small. 
“The profile of these loners is different to what we saw with the four suicide bombers in 2005,” said Noman Benot­man, a former jihadist with links to al-Qaida who still maintains contacts within the jihadist community. “Many of them have some training, a strong conviction and they manage to stay off the radar for the most part.” 
Although the 8,000-mile torch relay starts in May — more than two months ahead of the games — security and law enforcement officials are bracing for a number of po­tential threats as the torch snakes though Northern Ire­


SWIMMING 

Phelps and Lochte revive rivalry at Indy Grand Prix 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Michael Phelps wants to prove he’s still the world’s best swimmer. 
Ryan Lochte believes he can still beat Phelps head-to-head. 
Welcome to the next install­ment of the world’s hottest swimming rivalry, which will be replayed three times over the next three days at the In­dianapolis Grand Prix. While the meet is filled with past Olympic med­alists and future Olym­pic hopefuls, there are two swimmers ev­eryone will be 

watching — including the rivals them­selves. “You find  “You find people who bring out the best in you, and [Lochte] definitely brings out the best in me.”  and rededi­cated himself to the sport that turned him into an  
people who bring out the best in  Michael Phelps U.S. swimmer  international star. He de­clined to ex- 
you,  and  he  plain  those  
[Lochte]  defi­ goals.  
nitely  brings  C l e a r l y ,  
out the best  Phelps doesn’t  
in me,” Phelps  plan to coast  
said  Wednes­ through  his  
day, less than  farewell tour,  

24 hours before the meet be-which explains why he’s en-gins. tered in five events this week 
But Phelps acknowledges he — the 100 free, the 100 and hasn’t been himself in the run 200 fly, the 200 IM and the 400 up to the London Olympics, the IM, an event he once swore he final event of his career. would never compete in again. 
On Wednesday, during an “The biggest thing is if I want informal discussion at a local to achieve the goals I’ve set, Boys and Girls Club, the 14-I’ve got to be in tip-top shape,” time Olympic gold medalist Phelps said. “Part of that is told about 100 children and swimming longer races. The workers his results over the 400 IM is the toughest race past three years were “hor-and the most painful one.” rendous.” Just two months Lochte hasn’t exactly been in ago, a subpar performance in top form recently, either. 

a preliminary heat even forced the most decorated American Olympian to swim in a conso­lation heat for the 100 free­style in Austin, Texas. At least he won that race. 
Things may be about to change for the record-setting swimmer from Baltimore, who reiterated he would retire fol­lowing the Olympics. 
After winning a record eight Olympic gold medals in Beijing four years ago, Phelps told the audience he’s finally redis­covered his passion for swimming, established new goals 



After winning five gold med­als and beating Phelps twice at last year’s world champi­onships, he had a miserable performance at the U.S. winter nationals and, like Phelps, was relegated to that consolation heat in Austin. 
Some of the poor times can attributed to his training schedule. But when Phelps and Lochte are swimming against one another, good things tend to happen. 
“No matter where I’m at in my times, I’m going to go up to the blocks and race — whether it’s Michael or anyone else,” Lochte said. “It’s fun. Every sport needs a good rivalry and I’m glad to have that rivalry with such a great athlete.” 
For the Indy fans, this week could produce a rare treat. 
Lochte also is scheduled to compete in five races and will face Phelps three times 
— in the 100 free and 100 fly on Thursday and perhaps the 
premier event of the week­end, Satur­day’s match-up in the 200 IM. The con­test pits the two fastest Americans in the event. It’s a rematch between the 2008 Olym­pic gold and bronze med­alists. And Lochte will try to hang onto the world record in a pool that 

“It’s fun. Every sport happens, go-needs a good rivalry ing into Lon-and I’m glad to have don, those 
are two guys 

that rivalry with such 
you can build 

a great athlete.” 
off, that you can feed off 

Ryan Lochte 
of and they’re 

U.S. swimmer definitely go-
Phelps has been known to break records in. 
And with Lochte pushing him, it could happen again. 
“Every rivalry is different,” Phelps said. “(Ian) Crocker and I was different from what Ryan and I have. Ryan and I, we swim so many different strokes against each other. Crocker and I really only swam one event. But it is fun.” 
Fans aren’t the only ones who will be watching. 
Brendan Hansen, a former Olympic teammate of Lochte and Phelps, acknowledges he’s been paying attention, too, and believes it’s the kind of rivalry that can help the whole Ameri­can team. 
“What they have is a healthy rivalry,” said Hansen, who is attempting a comeback at age 30. “No matter what 
ing to be the backb one of this U.S. team.” 
Regardless 
of what hap­pens in Indy this week or at this summer’s Olympic Trials in Omaha, Neb. 
Other prominent swimmers competing in Indy include Missy Franklin, Cullen Jen­kins, Kara Lynn Joyce, Dana Vollmer and Dara Torres. 

SUMMER OLYMPICS 

Prime minister bans Syrian officials from Olympics 
Associated Press 
LONDON — Dozens of of­ficials in Syrian President Bashar Assad’s regime will be blocked from attending the London Olympics, Britain’s Prime Minister David Cam­eron confirmed Wednesday as he pledged to make the event “the greatest show on Earth.” 
Cameron said those subject to international travel bans and asset freezes would not be able to attend the sporting spectacle, which takes place from July 27 to Aug. 12. 
“I don’t think we should pun­ish the athletes for the sins of the regime, so Syria will be taking part in the games and that is right,” Cameron told reporters as he held talks with International Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge, who was in town for the IOC’s final inspection visit before the games. 
“But let’s be absolutely clear, Britain has led efforts within the European Union and else­where to institute asset bans, travel freezes and punishing sanctions against this despi­cable regime. Anyone covered by one of those travel bans will not be welcome in Lon­don,” Cameron said. 
A total of 41 organizations and 127 people linked to the Syrian regime have had Euro­pean Union sanctions imposed upon them, including Assad’s British-born wife, Asma. Dip­lomats have conceded they could not prevent her from entering Britain, but insist they do not expect her to try to travel to the U.K. 
Britain’s Home Office, which is responsible for bor­der control, will need to de­cide whether to grant a visa to attend the Olympics to Syr­ian Olympic Committee presi­dent Gen. Mowaffak Joumaa, a close Assad aide who is not currently covered by sanc­tions. 
The ministry can deny en­try if it feels an individual’s presence in Britain would not be “conducive to the public good.” 
Cameron said he, Rogge and London organizing committee chairman Sebastian Coe used their talks to discuss trans­port, security planning and attempts to make sure ordi­nary people benefit from the legacy of the London Olympics. 
The British leader — who said he runs and plays ten­nis once a week — insisted a key goal was to raise public participation in sports, par­ticularly among young people. Cameron later played a game of badminton in the garden of his Downing Street home with Coe and two schoolgirls. 
A key benefit from the Olym­pics would be “the inspiration people will feel when they see great British athletes, wheth­er rowing in a race, riding on a bicycle or running on the track,” Cameron said. “It’s well known that this has a transformational effect.” 
“That’s the bit you can’t touch, but it is very, very pow­erful and I think can bring the country together,” he said. 
Rogge also met with former British Olympic stars Denise Lewis, Darren Campbell and Princess Anne, the daugh-ter of Queen Elizabeth II, who competed in equestrian events at the 1976 Montreal Olympics. 


“London has raised the bar on how to deliver a lasting leg­acy. We can already see tangi­ble results in the remarkable regeneration of east London,” Rogge said. 
The IOC delegation is meet­ing with London organizers through Friday to check on preparations, the 10th and final visit by the full coordi­nation group since the Brit­ish capital was awarded the games in July 2005. 
“We are happy at the IOC,” Rogge told reporters, when asked about London’s readi­ness to host the events. 


MLB 

Ichiro leads Seattle to season-opening win in Japan 
Associated Press 
TOKYO — Ichiro Suzuki gave his fans in Japan a performance to cheer about. 
Suzuki had four hits in his return home, Dustin Ackley homered and singled in the go-ahead run in the 11th in­ning, and the Seattle Mariners beat the Oakland Athletics 3-1 Wednesday night in baseball’s season opener. 
“It was very special to open in Japan,” said Suzuki, who spent nine seasons in Osaka with the Orix Blue Wave. “I wanted to have fun and give the fans something at this special time and wanted to share a special moment with them.” 
Major League Baseball and the players’ association are us­ing the series to assist rebuild­ing in Japan following last year’s earthquake and tsunami. A group of players and coaches traveled to the disaster zone on Tuesday to conduct a baseball clinic. 
Felix Hernandez combined with two relievers on a six-hitter as MLB opened its season in To­kyo for the fourth time. The con­tinent switch didn’t help the A’s, who became the first team to lose eight straight openers since Philadelphia from 1985-92, ac­cording to STATS LLC. 
Seattle and Oakland complete their two-game series Thursday. The rest of the big league teams start to get going April 4, when the renamed Miami Marlins open their new ballpark against the World Series champion St. Louis Cardinals. 
A capacity crowd of 44,227 at Tokyo Dome was a sea of flash­bulbs every time Suzuki came to bat. He got a standing ova­tion when he took his position in right field in the final inning. 
Dropped from leadoff to third in the batting order as he start­ed his 12th big league season, Suzuki singled in the first when be beat shortstop Cliff Penning­ton’s throw after his grounder over the mound was deflected by Oakland starter Brandon Mc­Carthy. 
Suzuki singled on a grounder to shortstop in the fourth, sin­gled to center in the sixth and had an RBI single to center in the 11th. 
“We’re trying to stretch out the lineup and have the guys feed off each other,” Seattle manager Eric Wedge said. “I think Ichiro hitting in the third spot is the right place. We’re go­ing to be a very offensive ball-club this year.” 
The 38-year-old Suzuki set a big league record with 10 con­secutive 200-hit seasons before falling short last year. 
“He’s a hitting machine,” said Oakland manager Bob Melvin, who managed Suzuki with the Mariners in 2003 and 2004. “It doesn’t matter where he bats in the lineup. That’s what he does 
— hit.” 
Ackley homered in the fourth off McCarthy, and Oakland’s Kurt Suzuki doubled in a run in the bottom half. The score re­mained 1-1 until the 11th, when Brendan Ryan doubled against Andrew Carignan (0-1), Chone Figgins sacrificed and Ackley singled to center. 
“I was able to put a good swing on that one,” Ackley said. “Our team is off to a good start, and that’s all that matters.” 
Jerry Blevins relieved, Ack­ley stole second and Ichiro Su­zuki singled for a two-run lead. Brandon League closed it out for the save. 
Tom Wilhelmsen (1-0) got the win with two hitless innings. Cuban defector Yoenis Ces­pedes, who signed a $36 million, 
four-year contract with Oak­land, was 1 for 3 with a seventh-inning double and two strike­outs in his major league debut. 
Hernandez, coming off a 14­14 season, allowed five hits in eight innings, struck out six and walked none, throwing 104 pitches. 
McCarthy gave up one run and six hits in seven innings with three strikeouts and no walks. 


While Oakland threatened re­peatedly, the A’s were 1 for 14 with runners in scoring posi­tion. 
“They got bigger hits than we did at the end,” Melvin said. “We hit some balls hard, but they just didn’t get in.” 

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE 
AC Milan holds Barcelona to scoreless draw at San Siro 
Associated Press 
MILAN — AC Milan held Barce­lona to an entertaining 0-0 draw on Wednesday in the opening leg of the quarterfinals, the first time The last time Barcelona failed in 30 matches and more than two to score in the Champions League years that the Spanish team had was in the 0-0 draw with Rubin been held scoreless in the Cham-Kazan in November 2009. pions League. “There’s a first time for ev­erything,” Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola said. “Milan is happy with the result and that’s a real compliment for us. Not scoring away from home does penalize us a bit, as I think we will have to score twice to go through. 


“They are strong in so many aspects, I don’t think one goal will be enough. But the pitch will be better than this one, so there’ll be a bit more speed. We’re used to playing to win.” 
Barcelona players complained about the state of the pitch, with lumps of turf flying up with every tackle and players slipping con­stantly. 
“It’s a shame the pitch isn’t suited to a game of football, In­ter and Milan deserve a better pitch,” Guardiola said. “In the past few years we’ve won a lot, we’ve also lost and drawn. But whatever the result we’ve never been a team to complain about the referee or anything. To be the best you need to overcome these difficulties.” 
Milan will find out in the re­turn leg at the Camp Nou next Tuesday how much it will regret Robinho’s woeful miss early on, while Barcelona should’ve had a first-half penalty when Alexis Sanchez was brought down by goalkeeper Christian Abbiati. 
Lionel Messi, who has scored 55 times this season, had a goal rightly ruled out for offside at the San Siro. 
This is only the second time a match between these two Euro­pean heavyweights has ended scoreless in 14 meetings. 
Zlatan Ibrahimovic, who spent an unhappy season at Barcelona, was also kept quiet although he should have done better with two opportunities. 
“I’m happy,” Milan coach Mas­similiano Allegri said. “The lads put on a good performance, they interpreted the game as they should have done, attacked strongly and defended well when they had to. It’s a good result to go to Barcelona with. It will be a difficult game but two out of three results will favor us. 
“Next week I want a game like that of four-five months ago when, especially in the first half, we had several brilliant chances which we then wasted. So I want to have the same chances next week.” 
These teams also played each other in the group stage, with defending champion Barcelona beating Milan 3-2 in November in their last matchup. And the open­ing stages of this game appeared to promise a similar amount of goals. 
Madrid forward Robinho should have scored in the third minute. 
Milan attacker Kevin Prince Boateng’s shot crashed off de­fender Gerard Pique and the re­bound was headed on by Ibrahi­movic to an unmarked Robinho just outside the six-yard box, however the Brazilian shot over the crossbar. 
Milan was almost made to rue that missed opportunity immedi­ately, Messi drilling the ball low across the face of goal. 
Barcelona went close when Ab­biati spilled Messi’s shot but An­tonio Nocerino managed to clear off the line with Dani Alves slid­ing to try and tap it into the net in the ninth minute. 
The Spanish side should have had a penalty after a well-worked free kick came to Sanchez, who beat the offside trap, rode a tackle from behind and was then brought down by Abbiati as he rounded the goalkeeper. 
Ibrahimovic had his first sight of goal in the 20th minute, shoot­ing straight at goalkeeper Victor Valdes. But Barca was starting to get into its stride to dominate possession as Milan struggled to carve out opportunities. 
A lovely Barca move followed by a one-two between Xavi and Messi finished with the midfield­er’s shot being parried by Abbiati. 

ND SOFTBALL 

Notre Dame snatches doubleheader victories 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Less than 24 hours after blasting a walk-off home run to beat West­ern Michigan on Tuesday, junior catcher Amy Buntin was back at it, as she and the rest of the Irish offense carried the team in a two-game sweep of Toledo on Wednes­day at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Notre Dame (14-10) exploded for five runs in the seventh inning Tuesday to snag a come-from-be­hind win over the Broncos, and the bats remained hot from the start Wednesday, as the Irish won the first game, 9-1, in a shortened five-inning game. Buntin, who leads the team with a .377 average and 25 RBIs, launched her fifth home run of the season in the first inning and had a two-run single in the third. 
“Amy Buntin has been on fire lately,” senior outfielder Alexa Mal­donado said. “She had a [heck] of a day.” 
Freshman outfielder Emilee Ko­erner tacked on another two runs in the third with a double, and the Irish added three more in the fourth to make it 8-0. Aside from Buntin’s home run, the key to the offense was putting together good at-bats with consecutive hits, Mal­donado said. 
“We talked about stringing to­gether hits and producing runs for our pitchers,” she said. “When a pitcher pitches and allows no runs all game we should put the other team away.” 
Notre Dame put the Rockets (7-19) away quickly. Sophomore pitcher Laura Winter tossed four innings, struck out five and only al­lowed two hits. Winter (8-6) leads the team with 95 innings pitched, and opponents are only hitting .206 against her on the season. 
With Winter in control on the mound, the Irish ended things ear­ly in the fifth inning when fresh­man infielder Jenna Simon ripped an RBI double to score junior pitch­er Jackie Bowe. 
The Irish bats struggled out of the gates in the nightcap, but the team found its groove in time to se­cure an 8-0 win. Notre Dame broke through in the third when senior infielder Dani Miller plated a run with her sacrifice fly. 
The Irish pushed another run across in the fourth when fresh­man infielder Katey Haus belted her third home run of the season to give her team a 2-0 lead. From there, the offense erupted with six runs in the fifth inning. Maldonado and Koerner each drove in two runs in the inning and Notre Dame took a commanding 8-0 lead. 
Meanwhile, Maldonado raised her batting average to .355 and her team-leading on-base percentage to .424. 
“I believe that I’m doing well [re­cently],” Maldonado said. “I’ve had a lot of walks lately, which is differ­ent for me.” 
O’Donnell stymied the Toledo offense even after the Irish broke the scoreless tie. The right-hander tossed a complete-game, one-hit shutout, going six innings and only walking one batter. Maldonado said the two-game sweep puts the Irish in prime position as they head into a weekend series against Con­necticut on a three-game winning streak. 
“We set our goal to go unde­feated at home and in conference games,” Maldonado said. “We are using these wins to just build off one another and make sure that the positive energy we have now keeps going.” 
The Irish open up Big East play Saturday against Connecticut (13­
11) at noon at Melissa Cook Sta­dium. 


Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles focus on pitching, look to continue streak 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will aim to carry on its winning ways when No. 18 Carthage visits this afternoon. After dropping four contests in a row, the Belles have bounced back with three consecutive wins com­ing into today’s game. 
“I think we had a little slip in there with the losing streak,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “We were questioning our hitting after playing a lot of games in a short period of time. We got out of [our slump] Sunday, and then played really well on Monday. It just took some confidence, trust­ing the work we put in and being better prepared mentally.” 
Since Carthage (10-2) is one of the better teams in the area, Sul­livan said today’s contests will be a good test for the Belles (13-5) and prepare the team for their upcoming conference schedule. 
“We want to make sure we play well [against Carthage],” Sullivan said. “We don’t want to make any mental errors. They are one of the best teams in the mid-west and will prepare us for the good teams we will play in conference.” 
To compete against Carthage, the Belles will need to be sharp both offensively and defensive­ly. Sullivan said this sharpness needed to start with pitching. 
“We need our pitchers to come out sharp,” Sullivan said. “They need to get ahead in the counts and cut back on walks. Our hit­ters also need to be sharp and have quality at-bats. We’ve had too many pop-up outs and strike­outs recently.” 
With conference play com­ing up quickly, Sullivan said she hopes her seniors will be able to step up for the team. 
“Our seniors are all playing well right now,” Sullivan said. “For us to succeed, we need our leaders to step up and always be at the top of their game. They want to have a good season and need to chal­lenge themselves to always bring their best.” 
Saint Mary’s hosts Carthage to­day with the first pitch scheduled for 3:30 p.m. 


Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish aim for Big East qualifiers 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 

With only three competitors, the Irish carried more than their own weight Wednesday when three multi-event athletes from Notre Dame traveled to Austin, Texas to compete in the Clyde Littlefield Texas Relays. Senior Maddie Buttinger and freshman Carly Loeffel represented the women in the heptathlon, while junior Ted Glasnow represented the men in the decathlon. 
Both women competed in the first four events of their hep­
tathlon, with Buttinger finishing the day in seventh and 

“Right now, we’re trying 
Loeffel fin-

to get our athletes 
ished the 

qualified for the Big 
day in 20th. 

On the men’s East [tournament], so side, Glas-that’s what they will be now compet-looking to do tomorrow.” ed in a total of five events, 
Joe Piane 
finishing in 

Irish coach 
19th. 

“Our ath­letes did per­form pretty well,” Irish coach Joe Piane said. “So, yes, I would say we’re off to a pretty good start.” 
Buttinger managed top-five finishes in two of her four events, taking the first spot in the shot put with a toss of 12.34 meters and fourth place in the high jump with a leap of 1.69 meters. Buttinger had a little more diffi­culty in the field events, finishing 16th in the 100-meter hurdles with a time of 14.82 seconds and finishing 11th in 200-meter dash with a time of 25.42 seconds. 
as Buttinger. She did finish 16th in both the shot put and the high jump with a toss of 10.29 meters and a leap of 1.6 me­ters. She strug­gled some­what more in the other two events, as she finished 18th in the 200-me­ter dash (26.35 seconds) and finished 19th 
in the 100-meter hurdles (15.47 seconds). 
Glasnow also struggled to match the bar Buttinger set. Like his teammates, Glasnow saw more success in the field events, with an 11th-place finish in the shot put (11.83-meters), a 13th place finish in the high jump (1.87-meters) and a 16th-place finish in the long jump (6.80-me­ters). On the track, Glasnow fin­ished 19th in the 400-meter dash 
(52.80 seconds) and 23rd in the 100-meter dash (11.54 seconds). 
“Ted is right where he should be,” Piane said. “Ted is very solid all around and he is showing that.” 
The athletes’ performances are far from over. The two wom­en have their second batch of four events tomorrow and Glas­now has his second of five events. All three will look to take advan­tage of this second day and move up the leaderboards. 
“I expect all of them to keep doing what they started and re­main solid,” Piane said. “But, this is our first heptathlon and decathlon se we’ll find out a little bit more about [our specific ex­pectations] tomorrow.” 
Three more athletes will rep­resent the Irish tomorrow as well. The Irish will send sopho­more Meghan Moore and juniors Alex Bavis and Dean Odegard to the Eastern Illinois Multi-Event Invitational in Charleston, Ill. 
These three athletes will look to match the standards set by their teammates Wednesday in the Lone Star State. 
“I’m sure they will do well also,” Piane said. “Right now, we’re trying to get our athletes qualified for the Big East [tour­nament], so that’s what they will be looking to do tomorrow.” 
The busy week for the Irish continues tomorrow as they com­pete in both the second day of the Texas Relays and the first day of the Eastern Illinois Invitational. On Friday, some of the Irish will wrap up their performances in Charleston, Ill., while others will begin the first day of the Purdue Poehlein Invitational in West Lafayette, Ind., which continues through Saturday. 


Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 

“I think Maddie is doing well, if she has a better second day,” Piane said. “She, of course is a very good 800-meter runner, so she will do very well in that to­morrow.” 
Piane also said Buttinger’s goals extend beyond the compe­tition tomorrow, as she looks to the NCAA championships. 
“I would expect Maddie, if not tomorrow, to at some point qual­ify for the NCAAs,” Piane said. 
The meet was Loeffel’s first collegiate outdoor event. With less experience, Loeffel did not achieve quite the same success 

Kubinski 
continued from page 24 
ing averages of all time on the teams they’ve been on is a great testament to how good of play­ers they’ve been.” 
The trio’s most successful season thus far came during their junior year when the Irish took home eight top-two team finishes. Scodro led the Irish last year with a scoring aver­age of 73.3, while Walker and Usher finished the year with scoring averages of 73.9 and 74.9, respectively. Not only has the trio brought success to the program, but they have also 

changed the style of play, Walk-Yet, the influence Scodro, er said. Walker and Usher have made “I think the three of us sort reaches beyond just their play 
of  revolution- on the course.  
ized  the  pro- Having played  
gram in terms of the style of players that we are,” Walker said. “The three of  “I think all three of us sort of revolutionized the program in terms of the style of players that we are.”  on the team for four years, the seniors have now be­come leaders. According to  
us  are  longer  Kubinski,  the  
hitters and more aggres­sive.  I think  Chris Walker Irish senior  Irish recently had a team meeting to  
that  when  discuss  the  
all  three  of  struggles  the  
us started to  team  experi­ 

travel in our sophomore year it enced in their last two tourna­kind of gave a new dynamic to ments. the team.” “In the team meeting, Max 
spoke right up,” Kubinski said. “When he speaks, there is no questioning the young guys are listening and gaining confi­dence and really excited to fin­ish off this season in a big way. Tom and Chris have always been the same way. 
“I think without that leader­ship, a coach is really search­ing for things, but with those guys it really puts us in a great position to finish off this season on a high note.” 
Among the trio, Scodro has grabbed the most headlines in his four years. He was just named Big East Golfer of the Week for the second consecu­tive week and his current sea­son stroke average is the lowest in school history at 71.43. 
“Max is just getting better and better,” Kubinski said. “I think his stroke average this spring is as good as anyone’s we can remember so he is doing just an outstanding job.” 
Having played in every event this year and last, Walker has been a stalwart in the Irish lineup. Of the three seniors, Walker has made some of the biggest improvements since he came to Notre Dame as a fresh­man. 
“It’s great to see Chris now as a senior and the strides he ally coming around. I am really has made these last three years excited to watch the three of 


— his emotional maturity, dedi-them play at the [All American cation to the game,” Kubinski Intercollegiate at The Wood-said. “He has not necessarily lands Golf Course] and then go shown this spring, but the last to the Big East championship couple of years, shooting a 67 in and NCAAs.” down in Texas last year, and the Despite the achievements of capability he has, winning all the senior trio over the past 
four  matches  four  years,  
at The Match  they are not  
Play,  just  done yet.   The  
shows  a  lot  Irish have not  
to show what he has done  “I think more than  reachedNCAA  the  finals  
to grow as a player and as  anything, [we] three seniors have never  since 1966, but they are  
a person.”  been to the  national  hoping  that  
F i n a l l y , Usher has achieved his fair share of success in the past four  championship finals and that’s smething that at the start of the year we really set up as a goal for us and for the team.”  can change this year, Walker said. “I think that more than a n y t h i n g ,  
years.  While he has strug- Chris Walker  [we]seniors   three have  
gled  in  his  Irish senior  never been to  
senior  year  the  national  
so far, Usher  championship  
tied for first  finals  and  
in the Big East  that’s  some- 
Championship  thing  that  at  

his sophomore year and won the start of the year we really the St. Mary’s Invitational his set as a goal for us and for the junior year. team,” Walker said. “I think 
“Tom has been older than his that the three of us really have age since he arrived,” Kubinski that in our minds right now and said. “He is just such a mature that’s something that we really young guy. He had an injury want to accomplish.” last spring which took him back a little bit and he made a swing Contact Peter Steiner at change in the fall, but he is re-psteiner@nd.edu 
Hudson 
continued from page 24 
compiled a team-high .411 av­erage with two home runs and 22 RBIs in 23 games. 
Aoki said he is hoping to hang on to his veteran catcher for a senior season, but is proud of the progress Hudson has made since joining the Irish program. 
“I really do think he’s el­evating himself into a posi­tion where he’s a seventh- or eighth-round [draft pick],” Aoki said. “Hopefully we hang onto him, [but] if not I’m pleased with what he’s done. His at-bats are such good at-bats, he just makes people get him out and he’s not afraid to hit with two strikes and part of that goes back to him having offensive ability.” 
Part of the challenge for any catcher to produce offensively is to overcome the natural wear and tear inherent to the posi­tion. Despite Hudson’s swelling offensive output, he said he re­mains more concerned with de­fense and handling the pitching staff than his offensive output. 
“Growing up, all my coaches said, ‘If you’re going to be a catcher, then be a catcher.’ I re­ally thank all my coaches from high school and Little League for stressing defense first,” he said. 
If Hudson continues to put up the numbers he has to this point in 2012, his coach can’t be disappointed in his catcher, not even selfishly. 


Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 



past,” Mathews said. “Our fresh­
man year we had really good 
Seniors 
continued from page 24 
ly three seasons later, Louderback said memories like Mathews’ quarterfinal victory and senior Kristy Frilling’s perfect record at No. 1 doubles in dual matches her sophomore year are only a small part of the reason why he is proud of his senior co-captains. 
“All they’ve really cared about is how well we’ve done as a team,” Louderback said. “They both have made sacrific­es during their four years of either play-leaders on the team with [cur­rent assistant coach] Kelcy Tefft, who was our senior captain at the time, and Katie Potts, and we just learned a lot from those two.” 
Louderback also said the pair’s success — they are currently the No. 1 doubles tandem in the coun­try — meant they had little diffi­culty gaining the respect of their younger teammates. 
“It’s a little easier for them since they’re our best two players,” Louderback said. “They’ve both worked really hard to get to where they are now, and that 

ing wherever they’ve played in the lineup or with [different] doubles part­ners, and I’ve never heard  “They’ve both worked really hard to get to where they are now, and that gives them the ability to be able to tell kids whatever they feel.”  gives them the ability to be able to tell kids whatever they feel.” F r illi n g said she and  
a  complaint  Mathews try to  
from either one of them about an y th i n g .  Jay Louderback Irish coach  keep their role as captains en­joyable.  
That’s  prob­ “I would like  
ably the thing  to  think  that  
I’m most proud  we are fun yet  
about, just the  ‘get  the  job  

way they’ve handled being great done’ kind of leaders,” Frilling teammates.” said. “I think we both try to lead 
Mathews said she and Frilling by example and be positive role found it easier to take control of models for all of our teammates.” the team after seeing so many Louderback said the team will good examples in their earlier miss their captains’ attitudes years. along with their talent following 
“In a way it’s been an easy tran-graduation. sition, for the both of us, to step “Besides them being really good into those leadership roles as we players, their dedication to just came to be seniors because we doing whatever we have to do to just wanted to follow in the foot-win, I think that’s probably the steps of the great leaders that thing we’re going to miss the most we’ve had on our team in the about them,” Louderback said. 

years, but I’ll definitely continue playing on the weekends and in the summer and that sort of thing for fun, so I won’t hang them it forever.” 
Frilling and Mathews will lead the team into action against De-Paul (10-5, 1-0 Big East) at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 2 p.m. Satur­day. 

Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
Coaches 
continued from page 24 
the Brian Kelly era. In case you don’t remember, the offensive line under Charlie Weis was, well, not so stellar. While Weis recruited big, talented linemen, those linemen never reached their full potential. They got bigger, sure, but were regularly manhandled in terms of speed and technique. It’s why Jimmy Clausen struggled so much under center. 
Warinner revamped that en­tire offensive front and quietly made it one of the strengths of the 2011 squad. The offensive line’s improvements were most noticeable in the run game, which had an outstanding year under former running backs coach Tim Hinton. Running back Cierre Wood and Jonas Gray nearly pulled off dual 1,000-yard seasons, and they often had gap­ing holes to run through — they couldn’t have racked up those yards without them. 
Now Warinner and Hinton have offices 280 miles to the south­east in the Woody Hayes Athletic Center, where they are on Urban Meyer’s Ohio State staff. Former offensive coordinator Charley Molnar left to take a head coach­ing job at Massachusetts. 
The faces are a mix of new and old. 
Former safeties coach Chuck Martin is back on the other side of the ball to replace Molnar. Kel­ly approached Bob Elliott from Iowa State to replace Martin and convinced Tennessee offen­sive line coach Harry Hiestand to take over Warinner’s duties in 2012. Other staff members switched some of their duties to cover the remaining holes. 
By and large, last year’s staff worked. It remains to be seen if the new one will. 
Hiestand and Elliott are well-regarded coaches, but will they be able to build the same rap­port with their players as the previous coaches could? 
Martin has experience on the offensive side of the ball, but he inherits a squad searching for a quarterback among four com­petitors who just lost their most regular coach. Can Martin pick up where Molnar left off? 
The answers to these ques­tions will largely determine the outcome of the 2012 season, especially considering the dif­ficulty of the upcoming slate. 
If the offensive line struggles, it really doesn’t matter who’s under center. If the safeties can’t keep receivers in front of them, the talents of the monster defensive line are all for naught. 
It comes down to that oft-cli­chéd word: fundamentals. Posi­tion coaches are where players learn and develop fundamen­tals, and without fundamentals, Notre Dame isn’t going to beat BYU, much less Oklahoma. 
Of course, Kelly is ultimately responsible for the successes and failures of his football team 
— he hired these coaches, af­ter all. Head coaches, however, have to delegate to their assis­tants. Kelly simply doesn’t have the time to make sure Jamo­ris Slaughter knows the proper footwork to pick up a post route or to teach Zack Martin how to properly read a zone blitz. Those responsibilities fall upon the assistant coaches. 
Assistant coaches won’t get the most press. They definitely won’t get anything close to the most discussion at water cool­ers and on message boards. But they’ll determine this season’s outcome — and with it, the fu­ture of Kelly’s career at Notre Dame. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Frilling said she isn’t ready to give up competitive tennis just yet. 
“I am hoping to play profession­al tennis after I graduate,” Frill­ing said. “It’s pretty hard so we’ll see where that takes me. I don’t know if I will truly ever be able to quit tennis. It’s hard to just stop doing something that has played such a prominent role for my en­tire life.” 
Although Mathews will start a 
Defense 
continued from page 24 

Slaughter — who will also drop down and play outside linebacker — and Zeke Mot­ta will anchor the unit Dia­co described as a year-long project. 
“The defensive backfield is going to require a massive amount of work and maybe even some game day man­agement,” Diaco said. 
Last year, Jackson and Wood — the two cornerbacks currently at the top of the depth chart — each played in at least 10 games and com­bined for 16 tackles. Gray and Blanton, meanwhile, re­corded 96 total tackles. 
“I feel like I have big shoes to fill with Gary and Blanton gone,” Jackson said. “I’m just trying to transition more to being a leader for my team­mates.” 
Wood saw significant play­ing time in Notre Dame’s 31-17 loss to USC on Oct. 22, 
when he matched up with Tro­jans star receiver Robert Woods for much of the game. Woods fi nished with 12 catches for 119 yards. Wood, however, record­ed Notre Dame’s only inter­

ception return for a touch­down in the 45-21 blowout win over Maryland on Nov. 12. 
Jackson, a former receiver, consulting job at a firm in Chicago after graduation, she said tennis will continue to play a role in her life. 
“I think I’ll definitely play ten­nis for the rest of my life — it’s one of those lifetime sports, which I think is amazing about tennis,” Mathews said. “Definitely not having practice every day will be a little bit different. Competitive tennis won’t be at the forefront of my life for the next couple of 
served primarily as a kick re­turner on special teams last year, returning three kicks for a total of 32 yards. Collin­sworth also earned playing time on kick returns, averag­ing over 20 yards per return. 
Diaco said Collinsworth’s energetic style is contagious. 
“He’s a werewol f,” Diaco said. “I love that guy. That guy is 

hard not to 2013. 
“There is going to be 
like. He is Since
guys rolling in and out at 
all energy, March 24, 
corner, they all need to 
he is a high-offe nsive
play. Whether we like it or 
collision linemen Co-
not, they all need to play.” 
player, he is lin McGov­fast when he ern, Hunter steps on the Bob Diaco Bivin, Mike 
gas pedal. If Irish defensive coordinator McGlinchey, 
your energy bucket is a little empty, hang around Austin a lit­tle bit and it will be filled back up in a hurry.” 
Because of the inexperi­ence and lack of depth at cor­nerback, Diaco said the Irish 
“I feel like I have big shoes to fill with Gary [Gray] and [Robert] Blanton gone ... I’m just trying to transition more to being a leader for my teammates.” 
Bennett Jackson Irish defensive back 
will not have a set depth chart by the end of spring practice. 
“I don’t think that is going to hap­pen,” Diaco said. “At the end of the day, we’re not really go­ing to know what they’re going to do until they get in the game. We can try as hard as we 
want to simulate real live ac­tion, but until there is real live action, it’s not the same. 
“There is going to be guys rolling in and out at corner, they all need to play. Wheth­er we like it or not, they all need to play.” 
Big recruiting coup 
Fresh off a big recruiting weekend that saw some of the premier high school ju­niors on campus, Notre Dame claimed five new com­mitments to its recruit­ing class for 
quarter­
back Malik 
Zaire, ath­
lete Rashad 
Kinlaw and wide receiver Corey Rob­inson all committed to the Irish. Every player is at least a three-star recruit, accord­ing to Rivals. 
McGovern, Bivin and Mc-Glinchey all are 6-foot-7 or taller and each weigh at least 280 pounds, giving the Irish size and depth on the offen­sive line. 
Zaire, a 6-foot-1 quarter­back from Kettering, Ohio, is a mobile quarterback and will join the crowded stable of gunslingers already en­rolled at Notre Dame, which includes dual-threat options in junior Andrew Hendrix and sophomore Everett Gol­son. 
Robinson, the 6-foot-4 son of basketball legend David Robinson, committed late Tuesday night. He was also being courted by Wake For­est and North Carolina. 


Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

WILL SHORTz 
EUgENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 



LEE HAggENJOS and ALEx gRISWOLD 
HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE

THE LONDON EXPRESS 
MIKE ARgIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, March 29, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Young blood 
Young defensive backs 

Changes in coaching are still ‘in progress’ 
staff may bring success 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor 

There are some familiar fac­es, and a couple new ones. Say goodbye to former Irish 
The offseason saw a high-defensive backs Harrison 
profile departure join a former Smith, Gary Gray and Robert 
Notre Dame Blanton. Say hello to Notre 
coach, while Dame juniors Bennett Jack-
new addi­son, Lo Wood and Austin Col­
tions are on­linsworth. 
board for the Just a year after the Irish 
spring. secondary started four se-
Most im­niors, Notre Dame will trot 
portantly, out a youthful defensive back-
this group field low on experience, but 
will have high on potential. 
more to do “[The secondary] is a work 
with the suc­in progress,” Irish defensive 
cess of the coordinator Bob Diaco said. 
2012 season “We have a couple of stal­
than any warts at safety who played a 
other. lot of reps a year ago. Those 
No, I’m not young guys behind them are 
talking about quarterbacks. I’m a work in progress. We’ve got 
talking about assistant coaches. a bunch more that are going 
Former offensive line coach to be added to that group in 
and run game coordinator Ed August.” 
Warinner was one of the unsung Senior safeties Jamoris heroes of the first two years of 
see DEFENSE/page 22 see COACHES/page 22 


BASEBALL 

Hudson noticed by pro scouts 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Assistant Managing Editor 
After junior catcher Joe Hudson went 1-for-3 with three RBIs on Sunday to cap off a 4-for-10, seven-RBI weekend and an Irish sweep over Pitts­burgh, Irish coach Mik Aoki said that’s not the production he wanted out of his starting catcher. 
“From a selfish standpoint, I wish he was hitting .290 and we didn’t have all the scouts in the stands looking at him,” the Irish skipper quipped. 
It’s no surprise that nation­al scouts have taken notice of what Aoki has known for a while now: Hudson can hit. 
“Part of [his production] is on the assumption that he didn’t have a lot of offensive ability … He has good hand-eye, and for a kid hitting with strong power numbers, he doesn’t strike out a lot, he’s taken a lot of walks, he’s making pitchers pitch to him and I think that’s the key,” Aoki said. “It’s not that for his first two years that he was without offensive ability, it was just not necessarily well-directed offensive ability.” 
After hitting .264 as a fresh­man with one home run and six RBIs in 22 games and .239 with no home runs and 14 RBIs in 53 games as a sopho­more, Hudson has finally put it together in his third year at Notre Dame. 
Hudson said this season he has benefitted from an im­
proved  approach  and  has  
stayed  “locked-in”  mentally  
during each at-bat.  

“It all comes down to hard work in the offseason,” he said. “I feel very comfortable with these coaches … They’ve taught me so much about the game of baseball and life and I couldn’t speak higher about those guys. It’s really nice to see the success correlates to the field.” 



Prior to the start of the sea­son, Aoki said he expected a surge in protection from his catcher, though Hudson said he didn’t expect it to be this high — through Tuesday’s loss to Illinois-Chicago, the catcher 

see HUDSON/page 21 
MEN’S GOLF 

Veterans redefine Irish technique, standards 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
In their four years at Notre Dame, seniors Max Scodro, Chris Walker and Tom Usher have led the Irish to a Big East Championship title, an NCAA tournament regional appear­ance and a combined five indi­vidual tournament wins. 
Considering the Irish failed to record a tournament win three years ago, the impact these three seniors have had on the Irish is undeniable. But even though these seniors’ success is easily seen in the statistics they have compiled, it is even easier to understand their achieve­ments through the words of their coach. 
“Without these three guys and their contributions, I don’t know where we would be,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “They have done a tremendous job and to have the top three scor 
see KUBINSKI/page 21 
WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Senior doubles partners find success in leadership 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
On one Texas night three years ago, then-freshman Shannon Mathews was in position to boost Notre Dame into the top level of college tennis. 
“We were in the quarterfinals playing Baylor in the NCAAs, and she was the last match on,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “The score was 3-3, and it came down to her match. We were in Texas so there was a huge Baylor crowd and they were really nasty; they were on Shannon like crazy.” 
Mathews went on to win the third set, 6-4, clinching the match for the Irish and sending Notre Dame to its first Final Four in pro­gram history. 
“Having all my teammates cheering and being able to clinch the match [was incredible],” Mathews said. “Just being able to share that moment with my teammates and bringing Notre Dame into a position in the NCAA tournament where we had never been before was really an amaz­ing, amazing experience that I will never forget.” 
But two Big East titles and near-
see SENIORS/page 22 





