
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Student government leaders turn over roles 
McCormick reflects 

Rocheleau, Rose look on his past year as 
forward to succesful student body president 
year in student gov. 
By MARISA IATI 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
Associate News Editor News Writer 
In April 2011, newly elected 

Student body president Brett student body president Pat Mc-
Rocheleau and vice president Cormick and vice president 
Katie Rose, who took office Brett Rocheleau began enacting 
Sunday, said Rocheleau’s ex-an ambitious plan to transform 
perience as vice president last student government. Sunday, 
year, combined with their new McCormick handed the reins 
platform, will help this year’s to Rocheleau, now student body 
administration strengthen re-president, and incoming vice 
lationships on and off campus, president Katie Rose. 
improve safety and modernize McCormick said his adminis-
Notre Dame. tration sought to unite student 
Rocheleau said the connec­government, augment its con­
tions he made as last year’s stituent services capacity and 
student body vice president will “build a kind of student gov-
be important in achieving the ernment capable of building a 
goals outlined in the new ad-
Photo courtesy of Katie Rose 

Notre Dame for the 21st cen-ministration’s platform. 
Student body president Brett Rocheleau and vice president Katie Rose stand in front of Main see MCCORMICK/page 5 Building.  Rose and Rocheleau assumed their new positions Sunday. see TURNOVER/page 5 


‘Professors for Lunch’ panel discusses liberal arts 
By NICOLE MICHELS engaging students and faculty Arts?” which inspired the topic the Alliance for Catholic Educa-struck me when I think about News Writer in dialogue.  Diverging from the of this Friday’s event. However, tion (ACE) and Michael Zuckert our universities is that they are 
structure of the inaugural event Roche was unable to attend, of the political science depart-very artificial institutions, that 
The value of a liberal arts on Feb. 24, the second meeting so senior event organizer Mor-ment comprised the panel. we create them for a specific education was discussed Fri-featured a panel of speakers gan Pino said the organizers The panelists addressed the purpose,” he said. day afternoon at the second in-from diverse academic back-worked to find a diverse group purpose of a liberal education Daley said these institutions stallment in the “Professors for grounds, followed by questions of panelists. from varying disciplines. are embodiments of a common Lunch” series. The event, titled from the audience. “It went really well [because] Daley said he drew on his culture, resting on specific as­“Why choose the liberal arts?” Professor Mark Roche, profes-they all had something different Christian faith, especially his sumptions, hopes and values. was hosted at the Oak Room in sor of German language and lit-to bring to the panel,” Pino said. Jesuit background, to inform He said this leads to question-South Dining Hall. erature and former dean of the “I enjoyed getting to hear multi-his analysis of America’s uni-ing what type of person would 
The “Professors for Lunch” College of Arts & Letters, was ple points of view on the issue.” versities and its general aca-be a successful Notre Dame series is meant to enrich intel-scheduled to speak about his Fr. Brian Daley of the theology demic culture. lectual life at Notre Dame by book “Why Choose the Liberal department, Dr. Kevin Burke of “One of the things that always see LUNCH/page 6 
Marathon raises money for hospital 

MACKENZIE SAIN / The Observer 

Students work on arts and crafts during Saturday’s Dance Marathon benefiting Riley Hospital for Children. 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Dancing continues to be more than just fun for many members of the Belles com­munity. 
The seventh annual Dance Marathon held at Saint Mary’s on Saturday raised over $80,000 for the Riley Hospital for Children, which helps needy families seeking medical care. 
Rebecca Guerin, president of the Dance Marathon, said she was impressed with this year’s fundrais­ing total. 
“Last year we raised $63,248, so this year we took on the 20 percent challenge from the foun­

see DANCE/page 3 




Students to fast in solidarity with Haiti 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
With relief efforts continuing two years after a major earth­quake hit Haiti, students can fast from food, Facebook or other luxuries for 24 hours in a show of solidarity with the is­land nation. 
The Fast For Haiti, spon­sored by Friends of the Orphans (FOTO), started after a 2010 earthquake rocked the Carib­bean country, FOTO president Erin Wright said. 
“It’s a 24-hour fast in solidar­ity with the Haitian people,” she said. “We started the spring af­ter the earthquake and we’ve done it the past three years be­cause there is still a lot of relief needed.” 

The fast is not just centered on food. The event begins with an opening prayer service to­morrow at 6 p.m. in the Ged­des Hall Chapel and concludes with a Mass on April 4 at 5 p.m. Following Mass, there will be a dinner in the Coleman-Morse lounge for students to break their fast, Wright said. 
“People don’t have to fast from food,” Wright said. “They can fast from their phone, fast from snacks, basically what­ever they feel like they can do.” 
The purpose of the event is to raise awareness for Haiti’s resto­

see HAITI/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC sibling weekend page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u ‘Intergalactic Nemesis’ review page 10 u Linebackers step up page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ACTIVITY DO YOU ENJOY DOING ON THE QUAD? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Tori Roeck Andrew Gastelum Nicole Michels Mike Monaco Kaitlyn Rabach Peter Steiner Graphics Scene Dan Azic Maria Fernandez Photo Viewpoint Grant Tobin Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 66 LOW 52 


Nick Raie  Tommy Freeman  Aaron Lorton  Monica Torres  Catherine Porto  
senior  senior  senior  sophomore  sophomore  
off campus  Alumni  Alumni  Lyons Hall  Lyons Hall  
“Quad Golf.”  “Tossing the pig  “Afternoon  “500.”  “Laying around  
skin.”  catch.”  all day.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Man is struck by lightning after buying lottery ticket 
KANSAS CITY, Kan. — A Kansas man was struck by lightning hours after buying three Mega Millions lottery tickets on Thursday, prov­ing in real life the old saying that a gambler is more likely to be struck down from the sky than win the jackpot. 
Bill Isles, 48, bought three tickets in the record $656 million lottery Thursday at a Wichita, Kansas grocery store. 
On the way to his car, Isles said he commented to a friend: “I’ve got a better chance of getting struck by lightning” than winning the lottery. 
Later at about 9:30 p.m., 

Isles was standing in the back yard of his Wichita du­plex, when he saw a flash and heard a boom lightning. 
“It threw me to the ground quivering,” Isles said in a telephone interview on Sat­urday. “It kind of scrambled my brain and gave me an ir­regular heartbeat.” 
Debris from tsunami drifting off Canadian coast 
SEATTLE — An empty Japanese fishing boat drift­ing off the coast of western Canada could be the first wave of 1.5 million tons of debris heading toward North America from Japan’s tsunami last March. 
The wreckage from flat­tened Japanese coastal towns -including refrig­erators, washing machines, televisions, roofs and fishing nets - is heading inexorably east across the Pacific and could arrive sooner than ex­pected, according to the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmo­spheric Administration. 
“The early indication is that things sitting higher up on the water could po­tentially move across the Pacific Ocean quicker than we had originally thought,” said Nancy Wallace, direc­tor of NOAA’s Marine Debris Program, which had fore­cast the debris only up to the year of 2013. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Notre Dame campus community are invited to the Crypt of the Basilica for the Stations of the Cross at 4 p.m. today. After, the group will travel to the Grotto to pray prayers that have been submitted by alumni from all over the globe. 
Today from 4:30 p.m. to 6 
p.m. in Bond Hall, Marc Ap­pleton, principal of Appleton and Associates, Inc. Archi­tects in Santa Monica and Santa Barbara, will present a lecture titled “The Time Honored Traditions of Ver­nacular Architecture”. 
Tomorrow from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall Dr. Harry Kolar, IBM distinguished engineer, will present his lecture titled “Cyberphysical Systems Supporting IBM’s Smart­er Planet Initiatives: Ad­vanced Water Management in the Hudson River Estu­ary and Galway Bay, Ire­land”. 
Tomorrow from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. in Eck Hall of Law, Room 1140 John Tasioulas, Quain professor of jurispru­dence in the Faculty of Laws at University College Lon­don, will be delivering a lec­ture titled “Human Rights, Legitmacy, and Interna­tional Law.” 
Participate in 24-hour fast for Haiti sponsored by Friends of the Orphans. The fast will begin tomor­row with a prayer service at Geddes Hall Chapel at 6 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 













Saint Mary’s hosts siblings 

By KAITLYN RABACH Mary’s College Dance Mara-News Writer thon to allow younger sib­lings to participate in Dance This weekend, Saint Marathon events, specifi­Mary’s welcomed students’ cally the show “Silly Safari,” younger siblings to campus which was performed in An-
for the an­nual Little Sibling s Weekend. 
The event, sponsored by the Resi­

“Judging by the smiles 
dence Hall 

Associa-I’ve seen around campus, tion (RHA), I would say the weekend offered a was a huge success.” chance for 
younger 

Sarah Copi 
siblings to 

vice president 
experience 

Residence Hall Association 
their sis­
ters’ cam­pus lives. 
Sarah Copi, vice president of RHA, said the weekend helped to bring families together. 
“Judging by the smiles I’ve seen around campus, I would say the weekend was a huge success,” she said. 
First year student Mad­die Sampson said having her younger sisters visit was a wonderful treat, and she looks forward to hosting them again next year. 
“I invited them to come down because I haven’t seen them in a long time, and they both have been really excited to come here and visit me,” Sampson said. 
The festivities kicked off Friday night with an ice cream social event, and main events of the weekend took place Saturday. 
Copi said RHA collabo­rated with Saturday’s Saint 
Tess Siver, said the show was the highlight of her 
weekend. 
“I had such a fun week­end visit­ing my older sister,” she said. “We are from Arizona, so I do not get to see her very often. She took us to the safari show, and that was by far my fa­vorite part of the entire gela Athletic Facility on Saturday. 
“By part­nering with Dance Mar­athon and utili zing their theme, we were able to pool resources and add fun events such as the safari show,” she said. 
Kath­ryn Siver, younger sis­ter of first year student 
Copi said crafts were available in the Student Center Lounge, includ­ing face painting, making masks, coloring, painting frogs and sidewalk chalk. 
Maddie Sampson’s sis­ter Claire said she enjoyed these crafts, along with oth­er weekend activities. 
“Getting my face painting was a lot of fun,” she said. “But my favorite part of the whole weekend was get­ting pictures with my sister and her friends in the photo booth.” 
The weekend’s activities came to an end Sunday when students and their siblings tie-dyed drawstring bags with the Saint Mary’s logo on them. 
The weekend provided an opportunity for her younger sisters to experience the college life she loves, Samp­son said. 
“I had a great weekend with my sisters,” she said. 
“I am so happy that Saint Mary’s offers this opportunity for my siblings to come and see some fun aspects of the College.” 
Maddie Sampson first year 
“I am so happy that Saint Mary’s of­fers this opportu ­nity for my siblings to come and see some fun as­pects of the Col­lege. I hope this experi­ence will help my sisters as-
weekend. We got to see a pire to be future Belles.” bunch of different animals, but the baby cub was my fa-Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at          vorite.” krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Dance 
continued from page 1 
dation, which meant that our goal was to raise $75,898,” Guerin said. “I was speech­less when the total was re­vealed at $80,523.57. It was the best feeling in the world knowing that we exceeded our initial goal and beat last year’s total by 27.3 percent, especially in this economy.” 
The theme of the 12-hour dance marathon was “Ani­mal Kingdom,” Guerin said. 
“We definitely got the theme right this year,” she said. “The dancers came dressed in crazy animal at­tire, and it was really great to see the excitement!” 
The event featured live an­
imals, including a baby lion 
and a baby kangaroo. Songs 
about animals also played 
in the background, Guerin 
said. 
“We had an animal show 
early in the marathon that 
included various animals 
from bunnies to snakes,” she 
said. “The show was great 
because everyone could pet 
the animals after the show.” 
Guerin said the most excit­ing part of the night was the exotic animals brought in by a company from Michigan. 

“The lion cub, baby kan­garoo, fennec fox and an exotic bird were among the exotic animals at the event,” she said. “It was so cool be­ing able to interact with the animals, especially the lion cub.” 
Over 15 Riley families spoke at the event, a re­cord number, according to Guerin. 
“Many people don’t realize how much of an impact the money we all raise makes a difference for the Riley fami­lies,” she said. “Riley Hospi­tal for Children never turns away a child due to their in­ability to pay for care or lack of insurance.” 
Guerin said she credits the success of the event to the team who organized the dance. 
“Having a great group of girls working together to­wards this goal was amaz­ing,” she said. “I honestly had the best executive board and committee members that anyone could ask for.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at         jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 



Haiti 
continued from page 1 
ration and money to help the country rebuild, Wright said. 
Wright said one of the big­gest problems Haiti currently faces is controlling the out­break of disease isn the post-earthquake environment. 
“Cholera is a problem,” she said. “Rebuilding is a problem.” 
To assist in development in Haiti, fundraising for the event benefits an orphanage and medical mission, Wright said. 
“All the money raised will go to Nuestros Pequenos Herma­nos Haiti, which is affiliated with St. Luke’s medical mis­sion,” she said. 
The money sent to Nuestros Pequenos Hermanos (NPH) Haiti will go towards the or­phanage and its programs, and funds sent to St. Luke’s medical mission will 
assist cholera relief, as well as basic medical needs, Wright said. 
“The first year after the earthquake, the money [sent to the medical mission] was mostly used to help with injuries from that, but now it’s mostly used for cholera relief,” she said. 

Wright said FOTO is very ac­tive in other countries, like Hon­duras, the club supports nine different orphanages, including the one in Haiti. She said the others helped NPH Haiti follow­ing the earthquake. 
“After the earthquake, each NPH home rallied and all pulled together and were able to cre­ate a lot of support for NPH Hai­ti,” she said. 
During the 24 hours of the fast, participants will receive reflections and information about the situation in Haiti via e-mail. 
“[The reflections] are all a little different,” she said. “Some are from people who have been to Haiti. One we’ve used is [from] the director of St. Luke medical mission ... We also use different prayers, ideas and thoughts about the event.” 
To participate in the Fast for Haiti, sign up online at foto. nd.edu. 
Contact Anna Boarini at   aboari01@saintmarys.edu 



McCormick 
continued from page 1 
tury.” 
Through reforming elec­tions and fusing the Council of Representatives and Student Senate, McCormick said his team cut through the red tape that had accumulated in stu­dent government. 
The Department of Constit­uent Services addressed is­sues of convenience through projects such as restoring the 
price of quar­ter dogs to 25 cents and hosting Puppy Days and Cir­cus Lunch, McCormick said. 
“Our hope for the De­partment of Constituent Services was that it would serve as the front door to the student government office,” Mc­Cormick said. “Through the 
leadership of [sophomore de­partment director] Heather Eaton and her Constituent Services team, we’ve seen, I think, an enormous increase in the ability of student gov­ernment to deliver on constit­uent service needs.” 
McCormick said student government advocated for a University sustainability strategy, promoted the Play­ing for Peace initiative and proposed a peace summit and charity benefit concert, tenta­tively titled “3.17,” to adminis­trators. 
“We have submitted the pro­posal [for 3.17] to the Univer­sity, and the University now is pursuing its own due dili­gence, as it would for any proj­ect of this scope,” he said. “It’s been positively received, and we’re grateful to the adminis­tration for considering it.” 
McCormick said his and Ro­cheleau’s 2011 campaign cen­tered on students’ hopes that Notre Dame could serve as a crossroads where ideas could intersect and a lighthouse that could serve as the conscience of higher education. 
“From the beginning of when this journey began to where we sit today, I think that 

“There is no university more capable of being a transformative force for a world deeply in need than the University of Notre Dame .” 
Patrick McCormick student body president emeritus 
my great­est hope for student government was that we might be able to … serve as a means for students to real­ize their own great­est hopes for Notre Dame,” Mc­Cormick said. “If there’s even one stu­dent who 
believes still in that greatest hope that we have for Notre Dame, then the work goes on and the hope lives on.” 
The death of sophomore Sean Valero last spring was the most challenging experi­ence of his term, McCormick said. 
“Any time that there’s a stu­dent death, that is the most challenging part of serving in student government,” he said. “And I think at the same time, it’s consistently those times of tragedy where we most see the Notre Dame family coming to­gether.” 
The incoming student gov­ernment team is uniquely suited to furthering the out­going administration’s vision, McCormick said. 
“I think that one of the greatest gifts of all has been getting to work alongside of such an extraordinarily gifted and talented team,” he said. “To the extent that we have made progress in realizing the vision that brought us all together in the first place, it’s because of their leadership, and I’m beyond excited to see not only where Notre Dame will take them next, but where they will take Notre Dame.” 
During his time at the Uni­versity, McCormick said he has learned Notre Dame is uniquely capable of educating students’ minds and hearts. 
“There is no university more capable of being a transfor­mative force for a world deeply in need than the University of Notre Dame,” he said. “That’s our project and that’s our family, and I think that my hope is that the next genera­tion of students at Notre Dame will find it to be the journey of a lifetime.” 
McCormick, who will gradu­ate in May, said he will con­tinue a few projects during the remainder of his time at Notre Dame and will participate in a research project in Ireland in the fall. He said he will then pursue a master’s degree in forced migration and refugee studies at Oxford University. 
“It has been the greatest honor of my life so far to serve the student body of this ex­traordinary University,” Mc­Cormick said. “Notre Dame will without a doubt be with me for the rest of my life. It has been formative in ways that I could never have imagined, and I couldn’t be more grate­ful for not only the place itself, but the people who make it.” 


Turnover 
continued from page 1 
“Pat [McCormick, student body president emeritus] and I began to build relationships with everyone, all the way from [University President] Fr. John Jenkins, the Pro­vost’s Office, Faculty Senate, different student organiza­tions, to the community as we took office,” he said. “Now we have those established, so we’ll just build Katie in.” 
Rose said she looked for­ward to joining the network established during the last administration. 
“I’m really excited … that the groundwork is laid for them,” she said. “The people we talk to can help us tre­mendously.” 
Rose said the first goal of the administration is to im­prove constituent services. 
“We want a two-way con­nection where we keep people updated on things they asked us to work on,” she said. 
Rocheleau said he hopes to run a student government that is transparent to the stu­dent body. 
“Every other week we will update them on the process,” he said. “Students need to feel comfortable working with us. The accountability side is im­portant.” 
The Rocheleau-Rose plat­form also aims to reach be­yond campus and deepen Notre Dame’s roots in the South Bend community, he said. 
“Five years ago tensions were at a high, but as each administration goes by, it gets better,” Rocheleau said. “Our administration will value keeping these up and working with the community.” 

Rocheleau said the pair has already worked to improve campus safety by advocating for the installation of more lights on campus and popular places for students off-cam­pus. 
“Putting up simple lights can deter crime and as­saults,” he said. “Also, off campus there was a lot of crime first semester this year. It will be a challenge to get lights installed since it’s not land owned by Notre Dame, but we’ll work with the mayor’s office.” 
Rose said the team also hopes to modernize the Uni­versity through improve­ments in sustainability and the introduction of new cam­pus groups. 
“We love Notre Dame and its traditions, but we also want to bring the campus up to a modern standard,” she said. 
She said the two would con­tinue striving for the past administrations’ goal to con­nect Notre Dame to the global community, as well. 
“Like Pat and Brett’s ad­ministration, we want to make Notre Dame a forum for social concerns, and make it easier for student to access funding to go abroad,” Rose said. 
Rocheleau said he and Rose hope to represent the student body in the fullest capacity. 
“Our position is to repre­sent the students, even if it goes against what other peo­ple say,” he said. “If it’s what the students believe, we want their voices to be heard. That will have made us successful, if we can embody what the students on this campus feel.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at       ntoczaue@nd.edu 
Contact Marisa Iati at               miati@nd.edu 



Hopes run high after Suu Kyi’s election in Myanmar 

Associated Press 
YANGON, Myanmar — She struggled for a free Myan­mar for a quarter-centu­ry, much of it spent locked away under house arrest. Now, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate whose nonviolent campaign for democracy at home transformed her into a global icon is on the verge of ascending to public office for the first time. 
Aung San Suu Kyi, 66, was elected to parliament Sun­day in a historic victory buf­feted by the jubilant cheers of supporters who hope her triumph will mark a major turning point in a nation still emerging from a ruth­less era of military rule. 
If confirmed, the election win will also mark an aston­ishing reversal of fortune for a woman who became one of the world’s most prominent prisoners of conscience. When she was finally re­leased in late 2010, just af­ter a vote her party boycot­ted that was deemed neither free nor fair, few could have imagined she would make the leap from democracy ad­vocate to elected official in less than 17 months, open­ing the way for a potential presidential run in 2015. 
But Myanmar has changed dramatically over that time. The junta finally ceded pow­er last year, and although many of its leaders merely swapped their military uni­forms for civilian suits, they went on to stun even their staunchest critics by releas­ing political prisoners, sign­ing cease-fires with rebels, relaxing press censorship and opening a direct dia­logue with Suu Kyi — whom they tried to silence for de­cades. 

Results continued to trick­le in early Monday from poll watchers within Suu Kyi’s party, and spokesman Han Than said the opposition had won at least 43 of the 44 par­liament seats it had contest­ed. Those included four in the capital, Naypyitaw, con­sidered a stronghold of the ruling party, whose leaders helped build the city. 
The party’s foray into elec­toral politics was its first since 1990 — when it won a landslide that was promptly annulled by the army. 
“It’s the people’s victory! We’ve taught them a lesson!” a shopkeeper who goes by the single name Thien said late Sunday, when it became clear the opposition was go­ing to sweep the poll. He was among thousands watching outside the party’s crum­bling headquarters as a digital signboard repeatedly flashed news that Suu Kyi had won the Kawhmu con­stituency south of Yangon. 



Clinton urges nations to pressure hostile Syria 
Lunch 
continued from page 1 

graduate, and how the Univer­sity’s vision differs from the general national opinion. 
“I suspect that many under­graduate institutions, Notre Dame among them, would also hope to have some consensus 

ISTANBUL — U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton expressed doubt Sunday about whether President Bashar Assad would ever adhere to a U.N.-spon­sored peace plan to end Syria’s year of bloodshed, and urged world solidarity against a regime that she said was waging war on its own people. 
Clinton told the 60 nations at­tending the “Friends of the Syrian People” conference in Turkey that no one could “sit back and wait any longer,” even as the United States refuses to entertain military op­tions to intervene in the crisis. Instead, she urged unity behind a plan that includes more sanctions, humanitarian aid, support for the opposition and the promise of jus­tice one day for the Assad regime’s willing accomplices in human rights atrocities. 
“We meet at an urgent moment for Syria and the region,” Clinton said. 
International pressure forced Assad to agree to U.N. mediator Kofi Annan’s proposal, which in­cludes an immediate a cease-fire, she noted, adding that “nearly a week has gone by, and we have to conclude that the regime is adding to its long list of broken promises.” 
The meeting aims to further iso­late Assad’s government and bol­ster a divided Syrian opposition. The United States and its Europe­an and Arab allies have papered over some of their own disagree­ments on how best to advance the cause of the opposition and help bring about the regime’s collapse, with countries agreeing for now to hold off on military options from directly arming the anti-Assad rebels to creating buffer or safe zones within Syria for them to op­erate. 
Clinton lamented that Assad promised to pull his regime’s forc­es back, silence its heavy weapons, allow peaceful demonstration and access for humanitarian aid and journalists. He also should begin a political transition, she said. 
But, “rather than pull back, Assad’s troops have launched new assaults on Syrian cities and towns,” she said. “Rather than al­lowing access for humanitarian aid, security forces have tightened their siege of residential neighbor­hoods in Homs and elsewhere. And rather than beginning a political transition, the regime has crushed dozens of peaceful protests.” 


Penn State trustees work to improve accessibility 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. — Keith Masser was busy enough running his 4,600-acre potato farm before his schedule got even tighter the past couple months. 
In January, he became the vice chairman of Penn State’s Board of Trustees. He likened the time he’s put into the lead­ership position to that of a sec­ond full-time job. 
Masser and other board leaders are working to foster openness and ease tensions on a campus on the mend from the scandalous aftermath of child sex abuse charges against re­tired assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky, who was ar­rested last fall. Eight of 10 boys he is accused of abusing were attacked on campus, prosecu­tors allege. 
The trustees remain a target of criticism from vocal alumni watchdog groups angered by what critics have called the board’s rash decision to fire longtime coach Joe Pater-no, days after Sandusky was 
charged.  
Masser  hopes  increased  
interactions  with  students,  
faculty  and  other  university  

groups are helping repair the rift. Board leaders recently met with some of the groups as part of an ongoing listening tour. 
“A key component is acces­sibility,” Masser told The As­sociated Press in an interview this month. 
“We’re making ourselves accessible to them,” he said. “It creates transparency and openness, which is relieving some of the tension.” 
The board has begun an internal investigation of the Sandusky case led by former FBI Director Louis Freeh, but some critics have complained about a lack of transparency that they say has raised ques­tions about trustees’ motiva­tions. 
“We’ve heard it all. We got grilled in some of these listen­ing groups,” Masser said be­fore a recent trustees meeting in Hershey. 
Masser assumed his post in January, when banking ex­ecutive Karen Peetz was also elected chairwoman after their predecessors stepped down. 
“The biggest issue is keep­ing the difference between the Sandusky matters and the cri­sis ... and keeping focused on the future,” Peetz said. “A lot of what we’re working on ... is to keep us focused on the fu­ture. That’s an incredibly im­portant role for the trustees as we deal with what’s current, but we focus on where we go.” 
that at the end of four years, a grad­uate would be a virtu­ous person, a person who is trained morally, vir­tuously [and is working] to make the world a hap­pier, more just place,” Daly said. 
Discussion of the Chris­tian faith, particularly the Jesuit t h eolog y, enables stu­

dents to engage in evaluation of the culture and faith from which they come, Daley said. 
“I say this as a Jesuit because we have a long tradition of doing education,” he said. “The Jesu­its happened into education by accident; the first Jesuits were pastoral ministers that hap­pened into education because they shared the assumption that teaching young people … made them better Christians.” 
Burke said he also drew on Jesuit teachings to inform his opinions on undergraduate ed­ucation and the search for per­sonal vocation. 
“I’m going to go back to the Jesuits and their idea of the ‘magis,’” Burke said. “The ma­gis [means] ‘more in the world,’ doing more, thinking more, spir­itually being more. When you think about what your vocation might be, does it think about do­ing more for the world?” 
The ultimate goal for each individual’s undergraduate education is at the intersection of each individual’s answers to three distinct questions, Burke said. 
“The questions are ‘What are you good at?’ ‘What brings 
“If there are kinds of human activities that are choice-worthy in themselves and not as a means for other things, then there remains a case for liberal education as the education conducive to engaging in those activities.” 
Michael Zuckert political science professor 
you joy?’ and ‘What does the world most need you to do?” Burke said. “I’m going to argue that you figure out the answer to those three questions in conversation.” 
Zuckert said his defi­nition of con­temporar y liberal arts depends on their basis in classical edu­cational tradi­tion. However, 
French political thinker Alexis de Tocqueville pointed out the tendency in modern democra­cies is for people to believe prac­tical education is the only kind that makes sense, Zuckert said. 
“In America, liberal education is always threatened by educa­tion that is not liberal,” he said. “If there are kinds of human ac­tivities that are choice-worthy in themselves and not as a means for other things, then there re­mains a case for liberal educa­tion as the education conducive to engaging in those activities.” 
These sorts of activities are those that contribute to living well and rightly, Zuckert said. 
“Liberal education helps us to answer these questions,” Zuck­ert said. “It goes beyond the necessities of living, answering the question of what the point of living is.” 
Pino said though the speakers only had a brief time to formu­late their comments, the laid-back style of communication made the talk accessible. 
“With Professor [of early modern European history Brad] Gregory’s talk [at the last meet­ing], I think everyone was blown away,” Pino said.  “The problem was that we didn’t leave enough time to really get into it … This time we were going to try to make it a little less formal, and to leave more time for questions and answers afterward.” 
The shorter comments from the panel allowed for more dis­cussion and engagement with the speakers’ ideas, Pino said. 
“I’m glad it was a little shorter and that we had more time to talk afterward,” Pino said. “I think students really got into it.” 
Event organizer and political science professor Vincent Mu­ñoz said h e is pleased the panel format successfully interested the audience. 
“The turnout was very strong,” Muñoz said. “It seems to me that we have found something that is really resonating with the stu­dents. The panel format seemed to work well … It’s unfortunate that Professor Roche couldn’t be there, but the [resulting] for­mat allowed for more voices and more conversation.” 
Pino said the organizers want to continue the series, and they are taking it one step at a time. 
“It’s really sort of up in the air,” she said. “I think we’re just going to take it topic by topic and see what professors come for­ward and what interesting work comes up. We are not set on particular ideas, more on what we think people would be inter­ested in and what people want to talk about.” 

Contact Nicole Michels at           nmichels@nd.edu 





Democrats target Romney 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE — President Barack Obama’s administra­tion launched a multi-pronged assault on Mitt Romney’s val­ues and foreign policy cre­dentials Sunday, while a fresh set of prominent Republicans rallied behind the GOP front-runner as the odds-on nomi­nee, further signs the general election is overtaking the pri­mary season. 
A defiant Rick Santorum outlined plans to leave Wis­consin the day before the state’s contest Tuesday, an in­dication that the conservative favorite may be in retreat, his chances to stop Romney rap­idly dwindling. 

“I think the chances are formally comes to an end. overwhelming that (Romney) “I think Gov. Romney’s a will be our nominee,” Sen-little out of touch,” Biden told ate Minority Leader Mitch CBS’ “Face the Nation” in an McConnell said Sunday on interview broadcast Sunday. CNN’s “State of the Union.” “I can’t remember a presiden­‘’It seems to me we’re in the tial candidate in the recent final phases of wrapping up past who seems not to under-this nomination. And most stand, by what he says, what of the members of the Senate ordinary middle-class people Republican conference are ei-are thinking about and are ther supporting him, or they concerned about.” have the view that I do, that The line of attack is likely it’s time to turn our attention to play prominently in the to the fall campaign and be-Obama campaign’s general gin to make the case against election narrative. While the president of the United Obama is a millionaire, Rom-States.” ney would be among the na-
Both Secretary of State Hill-tion’s wealthiest presidents ary Clinton and Vice President ever elected. And he’s opened Joe Biden went after Romney himself to criticism through a Sunday, underscoring the be-series of missteps. lief inside Obama’s Chicago Romney casually bet a rival re-election headquarters that $10,000 during a presidential Romney will — sooner than debate, noted that his wife later — secure the right to drives a “couple of Cadillacs,” face Obama this fall. Their and lists owners of profes­involvement comes as both sional sports teams among sides sharpen their general his friends. His personal tax election strategy, perhaps records show investments weeks before the GOP contest in the Cayman Islands and a Swiss bank account. 

Obama’s team on Sunday also seized on Romney’s for­eign policy inexperience. 
Biden said Obama was “stating the obvious” when he told Russian President Dmi­try Medvedev that he would have more latitude on mis­sile defense after the Novem­ber general election. The two presidents did not realize the exchange, during a meeting in Seoul, South Korea, last weekend, was being picked up by a microphone. 
Romney called it “alarm­ing” and part of a pattern of “breathtaking weakness” with America’s foes. He asked what else Obama would be flexible on if he were to win a second term. 
“Speaking of flexible, Gov. Romney’s a pretty flexible guy on his positions,” Biden said. Romney’s GOP opponents have accused the former Mas­sachusetts governor of “flip­flopping” on issues such as health care and abortion. 


Early study abroad numbers on the rise 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, Mo.  — As Ameri­can teenagers go, Sally Kim is pretty typical. She’s crazy about singer Bruno Mars and the Plain White T’s rock band, spends way too much time on Facebook and can’t wait to start college in the fall. 
Yet when it comes to that fa­miliar bane of her fellow high school seniors — uncool parents 
— Kim has few worries. Hers are nearly 7,000 miles away in Seoul, South Korea. They sent their only child to live with rela­tives in Missouri a decade ago, when she was just 8. 
The three keep in touch over Skype, but Kim craves personal contact even more than when she first arrived. 
“As I get older, it definitely gets harder,” said Kim, who lives with an aunt and uncle, a college professor, and returns to her native country in the sum­mer. “I look back, and I think I’ve missed out on so many years of being with my mom and dad.” 
Such relocations, known as early study abroad, have surged in popularity in South Korea, where a rigid, test-driven edu­cation system, combined with intense social pressure to suc­ceed in an English-first global economy, often means break­ing up families for the sake of school. 
Some children, like Kim, live with relatives or family friends. Others move with their mothers and siblings while the fathers remain alone in Asia to work. Among Koreans, the families are known as kirogi, or “wild geese,” because they visit home briefly once or twice a year be­fore returning to their overseas outposts. 
The Korean Educational De­velopment Institute reports that the number of pre-college students who left the country solely to study abroad increased from just over 2,000 in 1995 to a peak of nearly 30,000 in 2006. And that number did not include students whose parents work or study overseas. 
The number has since de­clined to more than 18,000 in 2009, the most recent year for which statistics are available. 

Unlike American students who usually wait until high school or college to study abroad — and generally limit the experience to a semester or two — 77 percent of Korean students in the U.S. in 2009 were in elementary or middle school, a time when they are seen as best able to learn English. 
Wild geese families are par­ticularly common in college towns such as Columbia and Champaign-Urbana, Ill., where researchers are studying the ef­fects on family life, culture and the economy in both countries. 
Sumie Okazaki, an associate professor of applied psychology at New York University who pre­viously taught at the University of Illinois, said that many young Korean students feel intense pressure to succeed and are re­luctant to share any doubts or misgivings, whether the topic is family finances or their own well-being. 
“The parents are so motivated by what they think may be help­ful to the kids,” Okazaki said. “Because they know the family has sacrificed so much, that the parents are stretching them­selves, they feel like they can’t complain.” 
The students often isolate themselves. “We hear a lot of problems with depression, dis­tress and worries,” she added. 
Sending their children to school abroad can also strain marriages, particularly when the father stays behind. 
Hyoshin Lee, a mother of four, is now back in Columbia for the third time since she and her husband came to study at the University of Missouri 25 years ago. Each time, her husband ei­ther eventually returned to Ko­rea or did not accompany the family at all. 
Their two oldest children are grown and studying at Ameri­can graduate schools. Another child is a high school senior soon headed to college. The youngest is a ninth-grader who wants to finish high school here. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, April 2, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Romantic comedies 
“I love that you get cold when it’s seventy-one degrees out, I love that it takes you an hour and a half to order a sandwich … and I love that you are the last person I want to talk to before I go to sleep at night.” Carrie Turek 
“When Harry Met Sally” is the quint-Scene Writer essential, oh-so­quotable, feel-good flick. It captures Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan in their prime, playing two un­likely best friends. It is a true roman­tic comedy classic. Men and women alike are familiar with the deli scene and Meg Ryan’s hairstyle transforma­tion. It is a film that transcends the decades. But today, where have all the good rom-coms gone? 
Despite their sometimes gap­ingly obvious lack of reality, romantic comedies are essential to female life. We know they are unrealistic and they capture only the most once-in-a­lifetime kind of moments. But it really comes down to stress relief and the need for optimism. What could go bet­ter with ice cream, pajamas and pop­corn for those stay-in girls nights than movies like “Notting Hill,” “Pretty Woman,” “You’ve Got Mail” and “When Harry Met Sally”? 
The problem, though, is that all four of these movies are at least 13 years old. Today, we can watch new “ro­mantic comedies”  but the humor and charm just doesn’t feel the same. 
For example, just last week I watched “One Day” (with Anne Ha­thaway and Jim Sturgess) for the first time. 
I was excited to see this film. It looked promising and cute — a perfect weekend pick-me-up to be watched in the comfort of the dorm. The back of the DVD gave hope with critics’ acclaim as “a smart and endearing romantic comedy.” 
The cover called it “an epic must-see romance.” Add in a European set­ting and cute accents, and I was sold. Sadly, though, this movie that I had half expected to add to my list of go-to romantic favorites didn’t make the cut. 
Don’t get me wrong — it was well put together, well-cast and humorous at parts, but it surely should not have been classified as a romantic comedy. 
My general rule has been that a “romantic comedy” should leave the viewer in a happy state, feeling better and more hopeful about life and the world. “One Day,” though dramatic and romantic, did not fulfill this ex­pectation. The attempts to move away from the stand-by “When Harry Met Sally” were fruitless. 
It seems that some movies are sim­ply destined to last. “Pretty Woman” has released multiple anniversary edi­tions. “Notting Hill” airs frequently as a romantic comedy special. 
So what lessons can new films take from the older classics? Is it plotline? Actresses? Setting? 
Maybe it’s simply time. 

Perhaps all a good romantic comedy needs is a little space. Maybe we’ll look back ten years from now and sud­denly appreciate the genius of “The Vow” or “Love and Other Drugs.” … or maybe we will simply be laughing again and again as Meg Ryan profess­es her tearful hatred of Billy Crystal. 
Contact Carrie Turek at cturek@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Obamacare goes beyond healthcare 
Twenty-seven states have officially filed lawsuits against it, and more than half of Americans favor its repeal. Now, it’s the Supreme Court’s turn to give its opinion on Obamacare and decide the fate of President Barack Obama’s most recognized “achievement.” Brendan Pringle 
Amidst all the hype, this unpop-Mustang Daily ular piece of legis­lation might not even be constitutional. 
Aside from the basic question of whether or not the Supreme Court can hear the case (based on the Anti-Injunc­tion Act), the primary question before the court is a simple one: Does the minimum coverage provision of Obamacare exceed Congress’ power to regulate interstate commerce? 
The left will continue to cite precedents such as Wickard v. Filburn and the more recent Gonzalez v. Reich as case law jus­tification for the controversial legislation. Wickard, for instance, determined that Congress could regulate the amount of crops an individual farmer grew simply because it affected interstate commerce in the aggregate. The same precedent ap­plied later to those cultivating and using local non-medical marijuana (Gonzalez 
v. Reich). 
While these two cases and others expanded the latitude of Congress’ inter­state commerce power, they fail to align entirely with the unique nature of this particular case. 
The individual mandate in question does not only permit Congress to “regu­late” a new area of interstate commerce; it actually forces individuals “to engage in commerce” so they can be better regulated. Once it takes effect in 2014, any individual who refuses to purchase a “government approved level of health­care” will face a financial penalty. 

According to the legislation, the concept of a contract is outdated and unnecessary. Why is there any need for freedom of contract when the federal government can simply force people to enter a commercial agreement, and then regulate them accordingly? 
Paul Clement notes in his brief on behalf of Florida and the other states represented in this case: “The power to compel a person to enter into an un­wanted commercial relationship is not some modest step necessary and proper to perfect Congress’ authority to regulate existing government intercourse. It is a revolution in the relationship between the central government and the gov­erned.” 
And as we have seen in the decades of expansion following New Deal legisla­tion, this can be a very slippery slope, setting dangerous precedents for federal government power. 
If familiar with the Patriot Act, it becomes obvious we can’t ignore the fact that this legislation deals with the health and well-being of Americans. As Solicitor General Donald Verrill rightfully notes, “No one is more than an instant from needing health care.” 
But there are better (and more finan­cially sustainable) ways of ensuring uni­versal health care in the U.S. Contrary to what the media constantly feeds us, the Republican position on Obamacare is “repeal and replace” — not “repeal and relax.” 
From the earliest debates, Republicans have advocated a “more market-based” health care reform through a“defined benefits” structure. Taxpayer-supported health insurance imminently leads to “un-needy” people taking advantage of the system. This has already happened to our welfare system. Do we really want it affecting everyone’s health care as well? 
Of course, for the sake of expediency, the left ignored conservative solutions during the debates and squashed all resistance as it forced the bill through the legislation process. Still today, the mainstream media refuses to acknowl­edge any conservative alternatives to Obamacare. 
We have already witnessed the ridicu­lous arguments stemming from this bill’s passage. 
Suddenly, free contraceptives are a human right (obviously, this is what the Founding Fathers must have intended with the phrase “pursuit of happiness”), and proponents treat pregnancy as if it were some sort of disease. This legisla­tion leaves far too much room for ma­nipulation by its beneficiaries and by the federal government. 
If the Supreme Court severs the in­dividual mandate or decides the entire legislation is unconstitutional, Congress will have the opportunity to consider more effective and less imposing meth­ods of ensuring the health of our nation’s people. 
If our health care system doesn’t get fixed soon, it will be the cause of its own demise. 
This column originally ran in the March 29 edition of the Daily Mustang, serving Cal Poly San Luis Obispo. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

We’re getting sold short 
As a member of the class of 2012, I would like to congratulate the ad­ministration for their stellar choice of 
— wait. No. Stop. I can’t. I can’t even pretend to be excited 
about our Commencement speaker. I’ve heard her name about two dozen times and I still can’t remember it. There is nothing else in my brain to make it stand out, no point of refer­ence to give it traction. 
Regis? Was Regis Philbin too busy being retired? He loves Notre Dame! 
Our Commencement speaker didn’t even have a Wikipedia page as of the time of the the announcement. She’s not even mentioned on a different page. The administration couldn’t spend an hour or two clicking “Ran­dom Article?” 
We might have ended up with some Under-under-secretary of the UN Com-
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I passionately hate the idea of being with it, I think an artist has always to be out of step with his time.” 
Orson Welles 
U.S. actor and director 

mission on Greek Poetry and River Blindness, but at least she’d meet Wikipedia’s notability guidelines. 
Hillary? Hillary Clinton is important and allegedly a woman. We couldn’t get her? You have to go back to 1991 to find a commencement speaker who doesn’t have a Wikipedia page, all the way back to 1974, Dr. Rosemary Park, to find someone who isn’t even men­tioned on Wikipedia. Last time Notre Dame had a speaker this obscure, Hank Aaron had just hit his 715th home run and PONG became the first video game to sell 100,000 copies. NASA began building the first space shuttle, and the final frontier beck­oned. 
Gary Oldman? He has an inspiring story of overcoming long odds. I know that because I read his Wikipedia page. Because he has one. 
There are plenty of reasons to have this particular speaker: It’s the 50th anniversary of Notre Dame admitting women. Her life is being made into a movie, which I’m sure will be as faithful to the original story as Rudy was. But none of those reasons are in service to us, the Class of 2012. If in twenty years I have to listen to my family talk about how inspired they were by that one scene where she gets to be the commencement speaker and everyone loves it, I’m going to flip out. 
In 2009, in the midst of controversy driven by outsiders for political lever­age, we were told again and again that the Commencement is supposed to be about the graduates, no one else. So what went wrong here? 
Tommy Maranges 
senior off campus March 29 
WEEKLY POLL 

Is Haley Scott DeMaria a good choice to be the Commencement speaker? 
Yes — she’ll be inspiring No — she’s too low-profile 
Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 



Monday, April 2, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
My monologue about the ‘Monologues’ 
If you watched “Show Some Skin: The Race Monologues,” then you’ve been exposed to race issues. As the director of the production, let me stress this: exposure is different from education. The actors did not explicitly walk Edithstein Cho you through every monologue analyz-Asiatic Gaze ing how race played a part in the writer’s life. There was no commentary on the bias intrinsic to each piece. Theories weren’t laid before you to help you understand the behav­ior of the anonymous writers. Statistics weren’t thrown at you to help you real­ize the trends in our society. “The Race Monologues” was just what it is called 
— monologues, nothing more. 

For example, having heard a mono­logue from the Middle Easterner’s perspective does not mean we know how it feels to be Middle Eastern. We have been given a chance to peek into a window from the angle that the anony­mous writer has allowed us to look into. We have heard from one person — this gives us no right to assume anyone else’s point of view. On top of this, we have heard from an interpreted version of a writing — who knows if the anony­mous writer is upset about how the story was portrayed? 
Yes, many people have been touched by the stories. And that’s great. The monologues were raw. Yet the stories were not about pointing fingers or vent­ing. This caught even the audience by surprise. Most writers seemed to have written solely for the sake of sharing. The authors themselves seemed lost on what tone to adopt for telling the stories, how to put the events together, and what to think of their own stories. Many of them ended their stories with explicitly saying that they are confused or undecided. 
Life is not clean cut for any of us. So why assume that the stories’ authors have it all figured out? The complexity reflected in the monologues is natural. As human beings, we hold onto tensions in our minds. 
Many monologues had individuals justifying themselves as they portrayed contradicting aspects. One monologue talked of loving Notre Dame but hat­ing the sometimes racially homophobic environment. One spoke of preferring a partner of the same ethnic background while still supporting interracial rela­tionships. Another story illustrated how 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Thank you 
Dear fellow Notre Dame students, 
In this, my last day in office as student body president, I just want to thank you for the honor of serving. On behalf of our entire 2011-2012 student govern­ment team, I want to thank you for your support and leadership this year. 
It’s been a blast working with you on projects large and small to improve our university and student life here, as well as to advance the mission of Notre Dame to serve as a powerful force for good in the world. 
And I hope you will join me in wishing Brett Rocheleau and Katie Rose every 
success as our new president and vice president. They’ll do a terrific job. 
Again, thank you so much for the honor of a lifetime. 
Go Irish! 
Patrick McCormick 
senior student body president, 2011-2012 March 31 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


one can be anti-racist but not know how to act so. One monologue showcased how one defended oneself by targeting another group with the same prejudice. Holding such dual tensions is the messy reality. Talking about race is never black and white. Instead, race affects people in various ways like the different shades of grey. 
Despite its complexity, storytell­ing brings out the beautiful aspect of humanness. There is no level in which we can measure the perfection or the validity of the story. There is no one to tell you that your understanding of an experience is right or wrong. 
Especially for this production, both anonymous writers and actors had to take the leap of faith. If the courage em­bedded in such faith is not beautiful, I don’t know what else is. The anonymous writers had no clue what their stories were going to be transformed into or how they were going to be judged. 
The actors simply stepped up to lend a voice to the unheard — they didn’t know which monologue they were to be assigned. While many actors were assigned to pieces they disagreed, disliked, or could not connect to, they amazingly convinced at least me that they were the anonymous writers themselves. This process showcased empathy in a different level. Moreover, the fact that many people have gathered as listeners illustrate human solidarity for me. 
This cannot stop here. The storytell­ing must be continued. The fact that these are not representative should not undermine the value of the stories; the monologues should be taken as the vul­nerable narratives that are finally being shared. However, the production “Show Some Skin” should not be understood as any form of education. The support that “Show Some Skin” received illus­trates that our Notre Dame community wants to be educated. We need venues to educate the interested parties about anti-racism and help people understand the complexity of race. “Show Some Skin: The Race Monologues” was expo­sure. Now how are we, the Notre Dame family, going to educate ourselves? 
Please contact Edith at echo1@nd.edu for any comments or interest in being involved with The Race Monologues. 
The views expressed in this column                                                 are those of the author and not                  necessarily those of The Observer. 
Fulfilling the moral mandate 
Last Monday night, the Common Council passed a measure protecting South Bend residents from discrimination on the basis of gender identity and sexual ori­entation. The 6-3 vote is more evidence of the change of attitudes celebrated by the Notre Dame 4 to 5 Movement. Things have improved significantly for gay and les­bian students at Notre Dame, thanks in part to the efforts of the Core Council. But as the 4 to 5 Movement video pointed out, “It needs to get better at Notre Dame.” 
At present, the 4 to 5 Movement is promoting two initiatives that could make significant difference. First, the students are seeking club status for a Gay-Straight Alliance (GSA) that would address discrimination and harassment on campus and provide support to gay, lesbian, bisexual, transexual and questioning (GLBTQ) stu­dents. Second, they are once again pushing for the inclusion of sexual orientation in the University’s non-discrimination clause. 
Similar proposals were rejected in the past, partly on the basis of a concern for Catholic teaching and Catholic character. As concepts, Catholic teaching and Catholic character are far from simple. But it is reasonable to take the Catechism of the Catholic Church as guide to current teaching approved by the hierarchy. 
Speaking of  “persons with deep-seated homosexual tendencies,” the Catechism affirms that they “must be accepted with respect, compassion, and sensitivity.” It continues, “Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided,” (2358). 
On these principles, Catholic teaching does not preclude measures like the GSA and the non-discrimination clause; indeed, it would seem to require them. 
The mission statement of GSA proposes as its aim to “serve as a peer-to-peer interaction-based student club/gay-straight alliance, where GLBTQ students and allies can work together to ‘create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good’ as outlined in Notre Dame’s mission statement.” A GSA would pro­vide social support for GLBTQ students without isolating them, as well as a signifi­cant complement to classroom learning, and would be a venue for student-led effort to assure that GLBTQ students are, in the words of the Catechism, “accepted with respect, compassion, and sensitivity.” 
Equally important is the Catechism’s stipulation that “Every sign of unjust dis­crimination in their regard should be avoided.” Endorsing the capacity of gay and straight students (and associated faculty) to organize around sexual identity and adding sexual orientation to the non- discrimination are two essential steps toward fulfilling the moral mandate the Catechism articulates. 
Mary R. D’Angelo 
associate professor Department of Theology March 30 



By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 

Sometimes it’s not the story that matters, but how you tell it. Saturday night at the De­bartolo Performing Arts Cen­ter “Intergalactic Nemesis” told its story in one of the most uniquely fascinating ways con­ceivable. 
The show originated as a ra­dio play, for voice actors to act out over the airwaves while that sort of thing was still popular. It then evolved into a comic book, giving visualiza­tion to words and characters previously only heard. 
But that wasn’t enough for Jason Neulander, creator of the show. Both the radio play and the comic book are limited in their storytelling capabili­ties, but combined, they open a whole new world of entertain­ment possibilities. 
That’s exactly what Neu­lander did, and because of it the show succeeds in the most wonderful ways. 
The audience is intrigued from the time they step in the theater. The stage, devoid of any scenery or backdrop one might normally expect for a theater performance, is in­stead filled with an odd as­sortment of what look to be ev­eryday items on a table center stage and three 1900s-era mi­crophones off to the left. 
The show itself is nonstop action from the start, with twists, turns and wide array of colorful characters, all voiced by three actors who neverthe­less sound distinct and genu­ine. 
The plot is authentic to the time period to which the show pays homage, with the kind of light-hearted mystery com­mon in depression era radio plays and graphic novels. Even the voice actors speak in the diction and cadence of a bad black-and-white movie from the ‘30s. 
The show is very self-aware, and that quality might be the key factor that elevates the show from just being above-average to being uniquely ex­citing. The actors are aware the plot is a bit ridiculous, and they aren’t performing to win an Oscar, so they feel free to overact and be as absurd as possible. 
That self-awareness results in a show that is entertaining not just for its unique presen­tation values, but also for the continuing laughs. 
The actual graphic novel was also very impressive. It was projected, frame-by-frame, on a screen at the back of the stage, and each frame was as beautifully and expressively drawn as the next. 
But the best part of the show by far is the on-stage foley art­ist. The foley artist’s job is to create the sound effects that go along with the plot. The role is extremely necessary in such a show, because without one the performance would quickly be­come dry and unexciting. 
However, this show’s foley artist goes above and beyond just being on stage. As men­tioned before, the sound ef­fects table is center stage, so the audience’s attention is of­ten drawn to the artist. And she didn’t just make the sound effects; she was a magnificent nonverbal actor and an active part of the show. 

She reacted to every plot twist or ridiculous act of a character with an equally im­pressive or hilarious facial ex­pression, all while shaking a sheet of plastic to make thun­der or slapping two pieces of wood together, or one of the other million little things she did throughout the show to keep it moving. 
All in all, “Intergalactic Nemesis” was a wonderful show, and the world should wait on pins and needles for Neulander and his team to un­veil a sequel, which he says he plans to in the near future. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

“The Intergalactic Nemesis” 
Where: DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
More information: 
www.theintergalacticnemesis.com 


Photos courtesy of  www.theintergalacticnemesis.com 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 


Monday, April 2, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 

In case you didn’t hear the screams and swoons of preteen girls nationwide last Monday, the epidemic otherwise known as “Bieber Fever” has returned, sweeping across America like wildfire. 
Yes, ladies and gentleman — Justin Bieber is back, dropping his new single “Boyfriend,” which should turn even the most jaded of listeners into a “Be­lieber.” The first song off his third stu­dio album, “Believe,” set to be released later this year, sounds unlike anything we have heard from the Biebs — not only because he clearly has fallen off of the puberty tree and hit a few branches hard on the way down, but because the song itself has a different resonance to it. It might be too much to say “Boy­friend” is edgy, but it certainly makes you forget the days when Justin was a little Canuck nugget singing with a schoolboy voice — puberty has given his vocals a bit of authority. 
If I hadn’t known it was Bieber sing­ing on it, I would have thought it was another Justin dropping rhymes and crooning over the beat — Timberlake, that is. Unfortunately, the man behind the world’s most notorious wardrobe malfunction seems committed to mak­ing movies and “SNL” shorts, so we’re left with the next-best thing — and to be honest, I’m not complaining. 
Bieber is a polarizing figure, and at first, it would appear he does not do himself any favors with his new track. He launches into the song with some spoken-word rapping talking about his “swag” — this coming from a boy who is just barely legal and is dating a Dis­ney Channel star. Let’s be real, voice cracks, not “swag,” are what Bieber should be worried about for at least the next few years. 
But laughable introductions aside, Bieber and Mike Posner, who co-wrote the song, have crafted some sleek beats to fit Justin’s mature new image. The song sounds like it could have come off a Justin Timberlake album, and is eerily reminiscent of “Senorita,” one of JT’s early hits. It is smoother than any­thing on the radio right now — never would I have thought to consider Bieber an innovator, but this is not one of the dime-a-dozen dance-oriented tracks currently crowding airwaves. Rather, it signals the young Canadian icon wants to step into the shoes of the likes of Usher and Justin Timberlake as pop’s next major crooner. 

It will be interesting to see where the next few years of Justin’s career take him. He has already established a niche as the number one male teen icon — and by niche, I mean he has a huge fan base of teenage girls and cou­gars nationwide idolizing him. But as the Jonas Brothers, Miley Cyrus and countless other young adult acts have displayed, translating childhood suc­cess to a prolonged career in the enter­tainment industry is no easy feat. 
However, Justin seems to know what he is doing — he is changing his im­age to become more mainstream and radio-friendly, while also respecting his main core of fans. I wouldn’t go so far as to say Justin is Canada’s version to Frank Sinatra, but he clearly can sing. Bieber attracts a lot of criticism for being a primary example of what is wrong with the music industry today — namely for focusing too much on image and not on talent — but you can’t deny he has the “it” factor or the “X” factor, the sort of indescribable aura some performers simply have. 
Regardless of looks, we as consum­ers and viewers are simply drawn to certain artists, ranging from the gor­geous Beyoncé to the music indus­try’s answer to a crazy cat lady, Susan Boyle. This even goes across the talent spectrum. There are surely thousands of everyday people who can sing better than Britney Spears, but none possess the sheer spectacle she has as a per­former. It is hard to describe what it is, but the recipe to pop superstardom has many ingredients. 
Bieber seems to recognize this mul­tifaceted path is the way to a long and healthy career. One day, his fans will grow up and not be screaming teenage girls anymore — they’ll be screaming college girls, or screaming moms, or screaming residents of a retirement home. Justin could never stick with bubblegum pop forever, and thankful­ly, “Boyfriend” marks a new direction for the teen icon. It seems there is no cure for “Bieber Fever” in sight — and it looks like it will stay that way for a long, long time. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Senior Scene Writer 

Jon Hamm. Kristin Wiig. Maya Ru­dolph. Chris O’Dowd. No, this isn’t a sequel to “Bridesmaids.” And these are just the supporting players. 
“Friends with Kids” will inevitably be compared to last summer’s hit fe­male raunch-com due to its cast and similarly heartwarming — and often crass — take on adult relationships. While there are no major gross-out food poisoning scenes, “Friends with Kids” follows “Bridesmaids’” comedic look at adult life, though falls less for the latter’s heightened comedy. 
Rather, “Friends with Kids” is all about the nitty, gritty, less-than­glamorous world of growing old(ish), getting married and having kids. 
Written by Jennifer Westfeldt — Jon Hamm’s longtime partner — the film stars Westfeldt and Adam Scott (“Parks and Recreation,” “Party Down”) as two best buddies, and the only single ones amongst their group of friends. Westfeldt has prov­en her knack for biting portrayals of modern adult life with her fea­ture-writing debut “Kissing Jessica Stein,” and she turns the trials and tribulations of being young in the city into the trials and tribulations of watching friends disappear from the social scene, thanks to raising children. 
In an effort to avoid the fates of their once-exciting friends whose lives have seemingly been ruined by children, Westfeldt’s Julie and Scott’s Jason decide to trick both Ju­lie’s ticking time bomb and cruel fate by foregoing ruined relationships to just have a kid together. They reason that, as best friends, they can raise a child together, skipping over the pratfalls of a loveless relationship, while continuing to date on the side. 
While this plan makes little sense to their friends, Julie and Jason get along so well because of their shared, unique outlook on life. Mi­raculously, life seems perfect for the oddball family of two-at-a-time after the birth of their son. Inevita­bly, though, feelings are born where they once never existed, and Julie and Jason’s easy relationship be­comes increasingly complicated. 
“Friends with Kids” isn’t exactly unpredictable, despite its unique premise. But Westfeldt’s talent for writing — along with fantastic per­formances from the stellar cast ¾ make the journey to get to an inevi­table end interesting, tasting differ­ent from the other prototypical rom­coms on the market. 
Westfeldt and Scott match wits at every turn, sometimes spouting quips at each other, at other times exchanging jabs. They are an unex­pectedly great couple — with a nat­ural chemistry that comes out of the blue — and easy to root for, even if against your best judgment. 

Fans who head to see “Friends with Kids” looking for laughs from Hamm, Wiig, Rudolph and O’Dowd won’t be disappointed. While these four only turn in supporting roles as Julie and Jason’s married friends, they make every scene memorable, even if short. Hamm and Wiig have a relationship as dysfunctional as theirs in “Bridesmaids,” while Ru­dolph and O’Dowd are undeniably charming as beleaguered parents­of-two. 
Megan Fox and Ed Burns also show up as Jason and Julie’s respective flames, but neither can hold a tea to the humor or charm of “Friends with Kids’” main six. 
At its best, “Friends with Kids” attempts to capture the highs and lows of real adult relationships, de­spite a somewhat-outlandish plot. While not always perfect, there is an honesty to the way the relationships are depicted that seems in stark contrast to what one usually finds in contemporary comedies. There are, though, moments when the film seems to drag, either veering too far from the inevitable, or drawing it out too much. 
The conclusion is both predictable and welcome, luckily avoiding cli­ché for something that seems much more truthful. 
While “Friends with Kids” is out­landish at times, more often than not, Westfeldt’s sharp writing nails the complexities of adulthood on the head. The talented cast will have you laughing at one minute, cring­ing at the next, but always feeling wholly invested. Most of all, through all the laughter, you’ll likely end up taking a bit of time to think about just what it means to be all grown up and in love in the real world. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

Directed by: Jennifer Westfeldt Starring: Jennifer Westfeldt, Adam Scott, Kristen Wiig, Maya Rudolph and Chris O’Dowd 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Basketball in NBA is inferior to college game 
Forget the brackets, betting and buzzer-beaters. Forget the office pools and unheard-of schools. March Madness cer­tainly has all that and more. But there’s another reason why these 67 games, and the college basketball season as a whole, are the best hoops in the world. 
Yes, I have heard of the NBA and I am aware (although Charles Barkley is not) of the skill discrepancy between a top collegiate team and a cellar-dwelling professional squad. If anyone tells you Sunday’s NBA games were the best basket­ball of the weekend, just wait for the punch line, because yesterday was April Fool’s Day, after all. I don’t care that the NBA has deadeye shoot­ers, rim-rattling dunkers and tree-like shot blockers littered throughout the league — I’ll take the college game any day. 
No, I am not crazy. I’d rather watch players such as Ken­tucky forward Anthony Davis try on both ends of the floor. I’d rath-

Mike Monaco 
Sports Writer 
Levy, “In the NBA, everyone makes a run.” How can this happen? There’s no reason why clearly inferior teams should be able to sneak their way back into a game against a juggernaut. And it is inexcusable for an Eastern Conference contender like the Orlando Magic, with trade-waffling megastar Dwight Howard, to lose by 16 points to the 7-42 Charlotte Bobcats as they did in early March. 
No, I do not blame it on parity, sheer luck or the rig­orous nature of an 82-game season. The problem with the NBA is effort. If Knicks forward Carmelo Anthony played with even half the ef­fort of Ohio State point guard Aaron Craft, he would be a no-doubt MVP candidate and the Knicks would not be mired in mediocrity. Guys in the NBA just don’t bring the requisite effort level every single night. 
Yes, I do want a team full of Aaron Crafts. He is the type of player who makes the NCAA better than the NBA. For example, take Satur­day’s Final Four showdown between Kansas and Craft’s Buckeyes. Craft led the team 
with his 
pestilential 
defense, 
which can 
be directly 
attributed 
to level of 

er see him come up with a blocked shot   If anyone tells you Sunday’s NBA games were the best basketball of the weekend,  effort. And while we’re at it,  
on defense, sprint down the floor and  just wait for the punch line, because yesterday was April Fool’s Day, after all.  I want my basketball players to  

throw down an alley-oop to get his team back in the game. As a matter of fact, I don’t even need such “SportsCenter” Top Ten caliber plays to see the pas­sion. Give me a benchwarmer taking a charge or a walk-on diving for a loose ball. In Sat­urday’s matchup with Lou­isville, Davis routinely found himself in press row or behind the cheerleaders after chasing down loose balls. Forget about Amar’e Stoudemire, I want to watch the players who play with passion and intensity. 
Yes, I do know there are players in the NBA who don’t fit the slacker stereotype (see Faried, Kenneth.) But the league is chock-full of guys who do fit the bill. In the words of “SportsCenter” anchor Steve have Craft’s leadership. 
No, I do not want players who play to fulfill their stat quotas. Too 
many players in the NBA are worried about their points­per-game average when they should be solely focused on if their team has more points than the opposition. To employ an oft-used cliché, college players compete for the name on the front of the jersey. I’m not convinced some NBA players care about the team for which they play. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Kentucky fans celebrate win 

Associated Press 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. — Riot po­lice used pepper spray in small amounts for crowd control as thousands of rowdy fans swarmed into the streets near the University of Kentucky campus, overturning cars and lighting couches ablaze after a victory over cross-state ri­val Louisville in a Final Four matchup. 
Police had been bracing for the possibility of post-game vi­olence and resorted to pepper spray though large amounts weren’t needed before they ultimately began dispersing the throngs, Lexington police spokeswoman Sherelle Rob­erts said. 
She said 150 officers de­ployed on the streets at one point to quell what she called “a very dangerous situation with the fires and the violence” that dragged on for hours. 
“It’s a fairly difficult situa­tion, but not anything we didn’t plan for,” Roberts told The As­sociated Press. 
Lexington City spokeswom­an Susan Straub said police made fewer than 10 arrests, and a few injuries were re­ported after the celebrations turned rowdy in the streets af­ter the Wildcats’ 69-61 win in New Orleans. 
Roberts subsequently told The Lexington Herald-Leader that by 1 a.m. there had been at least 13 arrests, including sev­eral people suspected of arson. The newspaper also reported police had to dodge flying beer bottles while taking fire ex­tinguishers to put out dozens of fires involving sofas, trash and other debris set ablaze in the streets. There were no im­mediate reports of any serious injuries to police. 
Many streets had already been blocked off around Kentucky’s Lexington campus earlier to make way for the crowds, but si­rens blared and police shut down more streets when the blazes broke out. Twitter feeds reported police in riot gear moved in to dis­perse crowds as some people on the streets were overturning and vandalizing vehicles and others smashed glass bottles. 
Straub said the crowds began to disperse by about 11 p.m., nearly three hours after the game ended. But she said at no point had things “gotten out of control.” 
Roberts said a street sweep­ing machine was called in later at night to clean debris where crowds had departed. But author­ities had no immediate report on the damages. “I think it would be hard to estimate (damages) at this point,” she added. 
Earlier in the week, Lexington’s mayor and UK’s president had ex­horted fans to respect property and neighbors. But the city and university were prepared for a fiery celebration after police re­ported at least a dozen couch fires last week after Kentucky’s win over Baylor to earn a Final Four berth. 
“We’ve come at this with a sig­nificant show of force,” Straub said. 
The raucous street scenes trig­gered a rebuke from UK spokes­man Jay Blanton. 
“It is unfortunate that a small number of people are using what should be a night of celebration as an excuse to attempt to tarnish the university and the commu­nity,” Blanton said in a statement. “To the extent that students are involved in any illegal activity or actions that violate the univer­sity’s student code, they will be dealt with appropriately.” 
In New Orleans, Micah Fielden, Kentucky’s student body presi­dent, had earlier urged his fellow students in a tweet not to be de­structive. “Let’s be smart and act like we’ve been here before,” he wrote on his Twitter feed. 
The celebration was controlled when it began as celebrating fans streamed out onto the streets. At stoplights, fans hanging out of their cars chanted “C-A-T-S” while police and firefighters watched from the sidelines before the fires were lit. 
Things were more peaceful 70 miles away in Louisville, where heartbroken Cardinals fans gath­ered on a closed street near cam­pus and chanted “C-A-R-D-S” while waving a school flag. 
Louisville fans were divided over whether to root for their rival in Monday’s championship game against Kansas. 
“Even though it’s a Kentucky team, I hope they lose,” said Mi­chael Funke, who watched the game from a pizzeria just off cam­pus. 
Kentucky and Louisville fans took in the game from bars, res­taurants and living rooms as their uneasy co-existence was chal­lenged by the high stakes. 
Saturday’s game culminated a week of buildup in the state, with many fans recalling the “Dream Game” between the teams in 1983. 
That year, Louisville beat Ken­tucky in overtime in the NCAA Mideast Regional Finals. It was the teams’ first meeting since 1959. It took the governor to get the two schools together on an an­nual basis, and before Saturday the Wildcats were 18-11 since the annual game started in 1983-84. 
Saturday’s game was the fifth time the schools had met in the NCAA tournament — the two sides having split the four previ­ous meetings. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
House for rent. 
GREAT LOCATION - close to campus. 
3BR $600 per bedroom. Utilities included. 
Call 574-272-2940 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. 
For more information, visit ND’s 
website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Simple Song by The Shins 
Well this is just a simple song To say what you done I told you about all those fears And away they did run You sure must be strong And you feel like an ocean Being warmed by the sun 
When I was just nine years old I swear that I dreamt 
Your face on a football field 
And a kiss that I kept Under my vest 

Apart from everything, but the 
heart in my chest 
I know that things can really get rough when you go it alone Don’t go thinking you gotta be 
tough, to play like a stone 
Could be there’s nothing else in our lives so critical As this little hole! 
My life in an upturned boat, 
marooned on a cliff 
You brought me a great big flood 
And you gave me a lift 
To care, what a gift 

You tell me with your tongue And your breath was in my lungs 
And you float over the rift 

I know that things can really get rough when you go it alone Don’t go thinking you gotta be 
tough, to play like a stone 

Could be there’s nothing else in our lives so critical As this little hole! 
Well this will be a simple song to say what you’ve done I told you about all those years and away they did run You sure must be strong And you feel like an ocean Being warmed by the sun 
This Day in History: 
1963 - Reverend Dr. Martin 
Luther King begins the first non­violent campaign in Birmingham, 
Alabama. 

NASCAR 

Newman wins at Martinsville 
Associated Press 
MARTINSVILLE, Va. — Ryan Newman needed help and was running out of time. Finally, Clint Bowyer provided an opening with two laps to go at Martinsville Speedway. 
Bowyer’s aggressive move took out race leaders Jeff Gordon and Jimmie Johnson entering the first turn, allowing Newman to slide into the lead, and he held off A.J. Allmendinger and Dale Earnhardt Jr. on another restart for his first win in 23 races. 
“We were not a dominate race car,” Newman said. “Clint kind of cleared out Turn One for us and we were fortunate enough to be in the right place at the right time.” 
The reverse was true for Gordon, who led 328 laps, and Johnson, who led 112. The Hendrick Motor-sports teammates seemed poised to battle it out to see which one would give owner Rick Hendrick his 200th Sprint Cup victory, and neither had a chance in the end. 
“Jeff and I had been the class of the field so I really thought it was going to be a race between the two of us, and it certainly didn’t turn out that way,” Johnson said. 
He wound up 12th, and Gordon was 14th. 
Of the restart, Johnson said: “That inside lane is awfully invit­ing at times to dive-bomb on peo­ple. The No. 15 (Bowyer) threw a dive-bomb in there. I’m sure once he got in there, he realized it wasn’t the best idea. It turned me around. It turned the No. 24 around.” 
Gordon angrily sought out Bow-yer after the race, and heard the whole story. 
“He said he got hit from behind by the 39 (Newman),” Gordon said. “I had nowhere to go. Jimmie had nowhere to go. It was pretty unfor­tunate. ... I didn’t want to see that last caution. We had such a great battle with (Johnson). ... It was go­ing to be an interesting race. 
“That’s just the way our year’s been going. It can’t go on like this forever.” 
Gordon improved three spots in the points standings, but is still just 22nd. 
Newman’s performance drew praise from car owner Tony Stew­art. 
“I’m ecstatic for Ryan,” the de­fending series champion said. “I got to see it on the replay during the caution after all the havoc broke loose. Ryan made an awesome move to the bottom. He was heads up to get in the gas and through 


that hole before it closed up.” 
Allmendinger was second, fol­lowed by Earn­hardt, Matt Kens­eth and Martin Truex Jr. 
The finish over­shadowed what had been a stir­ring duel between Gordon, a seven-time winner on the 0.526-mile 
“We were not a dominate race car. Clint kind of cleared out Turn One for us and we were fortunate enough to be in the right place at the right time.” 
Ryan Newman 
NASCAR driver 
oval, and Johnson, a six-time win­ner. 
Johnson first took the lead when he passed Gordon on the 356th lap. He lost it on pit road, then passed Denny Hamlin to lead again on lap 
393. He held off a modest challenge by Gordon with about 30 laps to go and then dueled side-by-side with his teammate until the caution, which came when David Reuti­mann ran out of gas near the en­trance to turn one. 
Gordon, who had just nudged in front of Johnson before the yellow flag came out, was the leader, with Johnson second and everyone behind them heading to pit road for tires. 
What had been an atypically clean raced turned into may­hem on the restart. 
Earnhardt, who was in posi­tion to give Hendrick a sweep of the top three spots before the caution, said everyone being on fresh tires played a factor in the crash. 
“We all took off and ran into the back of the leaders, all of us,” he said. 
Earnhardt had no issue with Bowyer for trying to take the in­side line, saying that’s how you approach a two-lap sprint, but was at a loss to explain Reuti­
mann’s actions. 
“I would like an explanation on why that happened,” he said of Reuti­mann stopping where he did af­ter having made several troubled laps without go­ing to the pits. “There doesn’t seem like there could be a logi­
cal reason for him to have to stop on the track.” 
Reutimann said his motor just died. 
“I would not have stopped on the freaking racetrack. I would have limped it around there and come to pit road, which is what I was trying to do,” he said. “The thing quit going down the back straightaway, and it shut off. I just didn’t stop there intention­ally.” 
Greg Biffle, who finished 13th, remained the points lead­er by six over Earnhardt. 
TENNIS 

Djokovic beats Murray to take Sony Ericsson 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. — Two boys stood on the top row of the stadium, beautiful Biscayne Bay at their back and the world’s best tennis player down below, as they waved a sign in his sup­port. 
“Djokovic in the house,” it read. 
From the youngsters’ remote perch, Novak Djokovic looked like a tiny figure, yet he still loomed large. The top-ranked Djokovic won his third Sony Er­icsson Open title Sunday, hold­ing every service game to beat Andy Murray 6-1, 7-6 (4). 
Djokovic improved to 20-2 this year and 90-8 since the start of 2011. He didn’t lose a set in six rounds at Key Biscayne. 
“I’m playing at the peak of my form ... the best tennis that I have played,” Djokovic said. “I have to use that as much as I can.” 
He also won the tournament in 2007 and last year. Only six-time champion Andre Agassi has more men’s titles at Key Bis­cayne. 
Mulling how to celebrate his latest trophy, Djokovic said he might violate his gluten-free diet. 
“I cannot guarantee any­thing,” he said with a laugh. “I think I deserve a fresh bagel.” 
It was Djokovic’s first champi­onship since he won the Austra­lian Open in January for his fifth Grand Slam title and third in a row. Now begins the clay season culminating with the French Open, the only major Djokovic has yet to win. 
“This is very encouraging for me prior to the clay-court sea­son,” he said. “I’m going to have more confidence.” 
The lone break point Djokovic faced in the final came in the fifth game, and he erased that. He lost only one service point in the tiebreaker, went ahead to stay when Murray double-fault­ed to make it 3-2, and closed out the victory when the Scotsman sailed his final forehand long. 
“I managed to play my best tennis when I needed to,” Djokovic said. 
He’s enjoying his success. Warming up before a match ear­lier in the week, he joked with fans and used his racket handle to whack balls to them. 
“Honestly, I’m not a big fan of baseball,” the Serb said with a smile. “I’m a fan of hitting the home runs with a tennis racket at the practice sessions. 

“We try to come up with some crazy ideas and invent new sports on the tennis court. Yes­terday we played a little tennis hockey, if you want to call it, or whatever. So we like having fun.” 
Djokovic said he felt ready for a physical final after a day off, while the No. 4-seeded Murray was also fresh but rusty after needing only three matches to reach the last round. He ad­vanced twice due to walkovers, and was playing for the first time since Wednesday, which may have explained his slow start. 
“Maybe it took a few games to get used to the pace,” Murray said. 
The lopsided early score was a bit misleading, but Djokovic won the pivotal points and hit an ace to close out the 47-minute first set. 
The tense second set featured a succession of entertaining ral­lies. Djokovic lost one 26-stroke baseline exchange that left him panting, hands on his knees on the sunny, 85-degree afternoon. 
Eager to finish, he twice was forced to deuce on his serve in the second set and slapped his hips in frustration more than once, wary of a Murray rally. 
“That’s why he’s right at the top — he always comes back, even if you feel you have con­trol of the match,” Djokovic said. “I’m really happy to close it out in straight sets.” 
Their friendly rivalry began when both were juniors, and Djokovic now has an 8-5 edge. 
“He doesn’t have many holes in his game,” Murray said. “When you play against him, it takes normally six, seven, eight shots, like 15-, 16-shot rallies, to win a lot of points. You have to be very patient, pick your mo­ments to go for the right shots. That’s why he’s been so good the last 18 months.” 
The final matched two of the game’s best returners, but it was serving that dominated. Mur­ray faced eight break points and erased six. 
Djokovic’s serve was even bet­ter, and he won seven of his final eight service points. With the victory complete, he screamed to match the roar from the crowd, looked to the sky, pumped his arms and blew kisses — a cel­ebratory routine now well-re­hearsed. 

SERIE A 

Juventus crushes Napoli to put pressure on AC Milan 
Associated Press 
TURIN — Juventus beat Napoli 3-0 Sunday to move within two points of Serie A leader AC Milan and set up an enticing battle for the Italian league title with eight rounds remaining. 
Leonardo Bonucci scored from the center of the area in the 53rd minute at the Juven­tus Stadium, 
Arturo Vidal found the tar­get in the 75th with an im­pressive solo effort, and Fa­bio Quagliarella finished off a counterattack in the 83rd as Juventus dominated from start to finish in a preview of the Italian Cup final. 
Napoli was reduced to 10 men for the final five minutes after Juan Zuniga was sent off for elbowing Giorgio Chiellini in the face. 
Milan was held to a 1-1 draw at Catania on Sunday and fac­es a tough test at Barcelona in the Champions League quar­terfinals on Tuesday, follow­ing a 0-0 draw in the first leg at the San Siro. 
Juventus, which remained undefeated in all competi­tions this season, holds the tiebreaker over Milan, with a win and a draw head-to-head. 
“Over the last two weeks we’ve solidly beaten Inter and Napoli, two squads that began the season ahead of us,’’ said Juventus’ first-year coach Antonio Conte, referring to last week’s 2-0 win over Inter Milan. “I keep thanking my players because they’re doing something beautiful and ex­traordinary.’’ 
Earlier, new Inter Milan manager Andrea Stramaccio­ni had a successful debut as Diego Milito scored a hat trick and the Nerazzurri held on for a wild 5-4 win over Genoa in a match that both sides finished with 10 men. 
The 36-year-old Stramac­cioni was hired Monday after Claudio Ranieri was fired fol­lowing a miserable streak of one win in Inter’s previous 10 league matches. 
A week ago, Stramaccioni led Inter’s youth squad to a win over Ajax in the inaugu­ral NextGen Series final - a sort of Champions League for under-19 players. 
“The important thing is that Inter won. Yes, it was a wild victory,’’ Stramaccioni said. “I want to thank the entire group for giving their all to find success again. The merit is theirs. All I added was that little that I know to try and achieve this result.’’ 
This victory moved Inter past Catania into seventh place, 20 points behind cross­town rival Milan. 
Stramaccioni is Inter’s fifth manager since Jose Mourinho departed after leading the club to a treble in 2010, with Rafa Benitez, Leonardo, Gian Piero Gasperini and Ranieri each failing to fully satisfy president Massimo Moratti. 


“Now we’ve got to go match by match without making any plans,’’ Stramaccioni said. “I’m just glad the president gave me this chance, which I didn’t deserve. Having his support gives us the serenity to do our jobs.’’ 
Earlier, Roma routed rele­gation-bound Novara 5-2 to keep alive its chances of fin­ishing third and taking the Champions League berth. 

Roma is sixth, four points behind third-place and city rival Lazio, which lost 3-1 at Parma on Saturday. 
Lazio has 51 points, Napoli and Udinese 48, Roma 47 and Inter 44. 

SMC TENNIS 
NBA 

Belles split conference matches 
Rondo leads Celtics in 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
In a season filled with substantial margins of vic­tory and defeat, Saint Mary’s played two close matches this weekend. On Friday, the Belles lost to Alma 5-4, but were able to bounce back Saturday and beat in-state rival Trine by a score of 6-3, both ries, while sophomore Mary Catherine Faller claimed the third win in the one-spot. 
However, Alma was able to take the other three sin­gles matchups, leading them to the victory. Belles fresh­man Kayle Sexton battled her way into a second-set tie-

conference “Saturday, we did a 
matches. good job of resetting and Against 
getting our minds ready 
Alma (9-2, 

for that next match.” 
3-0 MIAA), Saint Mary’s 

Dale Campbell 
(8-6, 2-2) played a tight Belles coach 
match, before the Belles fell 5-4. 
“It was a good match,” Belles coach Dale Camp­bell said. “I thought we were slightly favored, so I’m a lit­tle bit disappointed in that match.” 
The match seesawed back and forth throughout, with the Belles taking the third doubles match, 8-4, off the stellar play of sophomore Margaret Boden and fresh­man Jackie Kjolhede. How­ever, Saint Mary’s slipped up in the first and second dou­bles matches, with the over­all margin turning to 2-1 in Alma’s favor. 
Kjolhede and Boden again asserted themselves, as they captured two of the three Saint Mary’s singles victo­breaker, but fell 11-9 to Alma fresh­man Erin Clutter. Clut­ter took the third-set and the match as well, win­ning 7-5. 
Alma se­nior Amy Baranowski was able to defeat Saint Mary’s fresh­man Shan­non Elliott in the third spot, the de­ciding match, as it claimed 
the fifth necessary victory for Alma. 
“They were very good in doubles, and got out to an ear­ly lead on us,” Campbell said. “There were a couple close matches there at the end that could have gone either way, so it was a tough one to lose.” 
The Belles showed their resilience Saturday, as they were able to bounce back and claim a decisive victory over Trine (4-7, 0-3). This fortitude did not escape Campbell. 
“Saturday, we did a good job of resetting and getting our minds ready for that next match,” Campbell said. 
The Belles flexed their mus­cles early, as they swept all three doubles matchups, 

91-72 win over Heat 
something Campbell said they had focused on doing. 
“Trine is a much im­proved team and we knew they would be tougher in singles, which was some­thing we talked about that ahead of time,” Campbell said. “So we wanted to get ahead in doubles, and that’s what we were able to do.” 
Boden and Kjolhede again claimed victories in the five and six singles spots, wrapping up an undefeated weekend for the duo in sin­gles and doubles. 
However, Trine was able to claim the first, third and fourth singles matchups, nabbing three victories on the day. Sexton was cap­tured a singles match, lead­ing to a split between the schools in singles play. With the 6-3 victory over their in-state rival, the Belles returned to a .500 mark in the MIAA, and move to an 8-6 record overall. 
Looking forward, the Belles have more than a week to rest. They will not play again until after Eas­ter. 
“We’re going to let the team off four days during Easter break,” Campbell said. “This is intentional, so we can give them a little bit of a break as we go into 
the  home-stretch  for  the  
rest of the season.”  
The  Belles  next  hit  the  



Associated Press 
BOSTON — Rajon Rondo had a triple-double and the Boston Celtics handed Miami its biggest loss of the season, pulling away for a 91-72 win over the Heat on Sunday. 
The Celtics outscored the Heat 31-12 in the third quarter, turning a 49-44 halftime lead into an 80-56 advantage. They stayed ahead by at least 19 the rest of the way for their fifth straight win. 
Miami’s last three losses have been by at least 15 points and its previous worst defeat of the season came just one week ear­lier in a 103-87 setback at Okla­homa City. 
Rondo finished with 16 points, 14 assists and 11 rebounds, reaching the triple-double mark with 8 1/2 minutes to play. It was his 13th consecutive game with at least 10 assists and his fifth triple-double of the season. 

The Celtics, combining tena­cious defense with outstanding play in transition, increased their Atlantic Division lead to one game over idle Philadelphia. 
The Heat, playing their third game in four days, were led by LeBron James with 23 points but he had no assists for only the second time in his career. Dwyane Wade added 15 points. The Heat continued to struggle on the road, losing for the sev­enth time in their last 10 games away from home. Miami has the fewest home losses in the league at 21-2 but is only 16-12 on the road. 
courts April 12 at home at 4 
p.m. against Bethel. 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
Armstrong leads Irish to 10th-place finish 

By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
At this weekend’s 40th annu­al Liz Murphey Collegiate Clas­sic, hosted by the University of Georgia in Athens, Ga., Notre Dame took tenth out of a field of eighteen, shooting an 892 as a team. 
The Irish were led all three days by freshman Ashley Arm­strong, who finished even-par, with an overall score of 216. Armstrong finished at even-par after the first round, earning her a tie for 16th. On Saturday, Armstrong ended her round with a second-straight day of par or better, shooting a two-under 70, moving herself up in a five-way tie for ninth. In her final round, she finished with a tie for13th place, shooting two-over, rounding off her final round with a 74. 
Following Armstrong’s per­formance was sophomore Kris­tina Nhim, who finished in a tie for 28th with a six-over par 222 for the tournament.  
“Overall with the weekend, I think we performed well and it was a good showing,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “I’m definitely pleased with how we played.” 
After the first round, the Irish were in 12th place, finishing with a team score of 301. With a second-day score of 292, Notre Dame propelled themselves into ninth place. The Irish complet­ed the tournament with a 299, falling one spot to 10th overall. 

“It was a really good oppor­tunity to go up against some top-ranked competition,” Holt said. “We held our own and did pretty well. We beat five teams ranked ahead of us, which at this point of the year is a real positive.” 
As the season winds down, the Irish hope to take their per­formance and the momentum gained to the Big East tourna­ment. 
“We have conference [cham­pionships] coming up, then postseason play, and we are certainly hitting our stride and playing better as a team,” Holt said. “This should give us a boost of confidence going into the Big East tournament.” 
Campbell said the team is looking to retain the Big East title, which the Irish won last year, and bring the trophy back to Notre Dame. 
“We are excited about the tournament, especially going in there as returning champi­ons,” Holt said. “I think we are in a good state of mind right now, and we are just going to be working hard for the next few weeks preparing for the Big East.” 
The Irish will look to keep their Big East championship title starting April 22 at the Re­union Resort and Golf Club in Orlando, Fla.     
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

ND remains perfect in Big East with win 

By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
The No. 20 Irish continued their Big East shutout streak Saturday, defeating DePaul 7-0. 
The Blue Demons (10-6, 1-0 Big East) were Notre Dame’s third conference opponent this season, and all three teams 
— Cincinnati, Marquette and DePaul — have failed to post a single point against the Irish. Despite the perfect outcome, DePaul was not a team the Irish (14-5, 3-0) took lightly, according to senior captain Shannon Mathews. 
“They’re a really good team in the Big East that we always have a duel match against,” Mathews said. “They’re one of our rivals in the Big East, and they always come out and play really well against us, so we know we can’t take them for granted.” 
Setting the tone for the match with doubles play remains a staple in Notre Dame’s arsenal, according to Mathews. Satur­day marked Notre Dame’s 10th consecutive match in which it claimed the doubles point, an­other streak that has been in­tegral for the squad’s success of late. 
“We did really well taking all three of the doubles matches,” she said. “It was really crucial to come out strong from the get-go. To be able to separate ourselves and win all three was a great boost going into singles.” 
Though the No. 1 doubles team of Mathews and senior captain Kristy Frilling re­cently dropped from No. 1 to No. 5 in the national rankings, Mathews said the pair felt good about its play against the Blue Demons. 
“[Frilling and I] came out being really aggressive. We’ve been working on going back to the basics and we mixed up the play really well — being aggressive off the ground from the baseline and [helping] each other out a lot out at the net,” Mathews said. “It’s something we hadn’t done in the past from the get go. 
“The first two games of the match we were aggressive at the net and got our opponents really off-balance. Starting off and being really aggressive at net was really crucial. We both served really well, a high per­centage of first serves really helped.” 
Only five dual matches re­main before the Big East championships, including two tough Big East opponents — South Florida and Louisville — along with No. 11 Baylor, No. 15 Northwestern and No. 16 Texas A&M. Mathews said the Irish are ratcheting up their fo­cus these next couple of weeks. 
“I think these next [few] matches are going to be re­ally, really crucial, especially for ranking and our confidence looking toward the NCAA tour­nament,” she said. “We’re tak­ing it one match at a time. 
“Northwestern will be our next big challenge. They’re definitely ranked ahead of us so it will be a great opportu­nity for us to compete well at home. They’re another rival in the Midwest region. We always have really long tough battles with them. [We want to] just go out there and let everything hang out, and just play a little bit freely and go for it.” 
The Irish will look to build on their win against Depaul when they take on Northwestern at home Wednesday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish win nine events at Purdue 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame concluded a busy weekend of multiple competitions by winning nine events in an impressive two-day showing at the Mike Poehlein Invitational in West Lafayette, Ind. 
“Our team was really fo­cused on qualifying for the Big East, and everyone competed very well,” Irish coach Joe Pi­ane said. “I was pretty happy with their performances.” 
Notre Dame swept the pole vault on both sides, with se­nior Kevin Schipper earning a victory in the men’s event with a vault of 5.10 meters. Se­nior Ann Polcari captured the women’s title with a vault of 
3.60 meters. 

Freshmen twin standouts Kalia and Jade Barber each earned victories at the invita­tional, as the former narrowly edged out junior sprinter Ne­vada Sorenson to capture the women’s 100-meter hurdles in 13.82 seconds. Jade Bar­ber won the women’s 400-me­ter dash in 55.62. Sophomore sprinter Aijah Urssery added another victory for the Irish short-distance squad, as she won the women’s 100-meter dash with a mark of 12.03 sec­onds. 
“I was impressed with Ka­lia’s win in the 100-meter hurdles because she hasn’t run them at all this year, and she did a very good job,” Pi­ane said. “That’s not to take anything away from Nevada Sorenson, who was right with her the entire way.” 
The Irish outdoor field team saw success in their second meet of the year, as sophomore javelinist Amanda Chamblee won the women’s javelin throw with a toss of 38.71 meters. 
The Irish women captured Notre Dame’s three other victories at the invitation­al. Sophomore jumper Kelly Burke took the top spot in the women’s triple jump with a leap of 11.50 meters, freshman Emily Frydrych won the wom­en’s 800-meter dash in 2:11.41 and senior Kari Johnson took the women’s 5,000-meter event with a time of 18:03.92. 
With the Irish taking home nine victories and earning nu­merous top-three finishes, Pi­ane said he was impressed with the overall depth of the team. 
“We’re probably as deep a team in both genders as we’ve been in years,” Piane said. “To do well in a conference meet, you need people scoring in all different events and I feel we’ve been doing just that.” 
Four Irish pentathletes and heptathletes also concluded competition at the Neil Moore Multi-Event Invitational in Charleston, Ill. on Friday, with the male pentathletes compet­ing in five events and female heptathletes finishing their fi­nal three events. Junior Dean Odegard posted the top show­ing for the Irish, finishing sec­ond in the pentathlon with a final score of 6,297 points. Ode­gard highlighted his perfor­mance by finishing first in both the 1,500-meter run and the discus throw. On the women’s side, sophomore Meghan Moore finished sixth in the heptathlon with a score of 4,279 points, a performance marked by her fourth-place finish in the long jump and fifth-place finish in the 200-meter dash. 


Notre Dame will head west to Palo Alto, Calif. next weekend to compete in the Stanford Invi­tational. As the meet will mark the first spring competitions for indoor All-Americans se­nior Johnathan Shawel, senior Randall Babb and junior Jer­emy Rae, Piane said he hopes to see the team meet some NCAA qualifying standards at the event. 
“The real objective of going out to Stanford is to get some qualifiers for the NCAA region meet,” Piane said. “We’re go­ing to open up some ladies and guys that haven’t run yet, and hopefully we can get some re­gional qualifying marks out of that.” 
Competition at the Stanford Invitational kicks off on April 7. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

Winter 
continued from page 20 
The right-hander utilized her changeup to perfection, as she routinely used the pitch to keep the Huskies off-balance. 
“The [Connecticut] hitters are very, very aggressive and we knew that,” Gumpf said. “We knew that if we got them to fish, we’d be successful, and that’s I think what Laura ended up doing well. She got them to fish at changeups, her off-speed drop, her rise ball, and when she does that, good things will happen for her.” 
The offense piled on more runs in the fourth inning in support of Winter to extend the lead to four, but Connecti­cut scored once in the fifth. Winter, however, shut the door in the final two innings by striking out four to secure the 5-2 win. 
The Irish pounced on the Huskies early in the sec­ond game, as the offense put across three runs in both the first and third innings. 
Irish junior pitcher Brittany O’Donnell was in complete control from the start as well, as the right-hander retired the first six batters of the game. 
“[O’Donnell] does a nice job of completing [Winter] be­cause they are so opposite,” Gumpf said. “If someone is hitting Laura pretty well, then they’re probably not going to hit [O’Donnell] very well … If they are both on, it changes everything. [O’Donnell] keeps hitters off balance, so she’s a great complement to [Win­ter].” 
Leading 7-1 after five in­nings, the Irish ran into some trouble in the sixth when Con­necticut sophomore infielder Audrey Grinnell ripped a two-run double to left-center field to cut the lead to four. The Huskies proceeded to load the bases with two outs, but the Irish got out of the jam and finished off the game in the bottom of the seventh, as O’Donnell went the distance to get the 7-3 win. 

In Sunday morning’s series finale, the Irish offense came through with 11 hits from sev­en different players, and Notre Dame got out to a 6-1 lead af­ter three innings. Gumpf said the early offensive eruption was due to the familiarity of the teams. 
“I think both offenses were [clicking] today,” Gumpf said. “The third time you play an opponent, the game just changes because you have seen everyone you are going to see. So you’re always ex­pecting [the offenses to come through].” 
After a shaky first inning, Winter settled down in the circle. She scattered eight hits and two earned runs while not allowing a walk. A day af­ter committing six errors, the Irish defense complemented its pitcher by recording a slew of difficult putouts. 

The Notre Dame bats cooled off down the stretch, but the Irish held on for the 7-2 win. 
Gumpf said the three-game sweep is exactly how you want to start conference play. 
“Anytime you sweep a team it gives you a lot of confidence,” Gumpf said. “I think the girls are really confident in the Big East as it is. We know our op­ponents really well . we do a lot of research and make sure we’re prepared to play any­body — so it’s really about how we play. If we play our game and really focus on what we need to do, I think we’ll be fine.” 
Notre Dame looks to make it seven wins in a row when it closes out its homestand Wednesday against North­western at 5 p.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
Rutgers 
continued from page 20 
seconds remaining in regula­tion completed the home team’s comeback, sending the game to overtime. 
“I think that they came up with a couple of big stops down the stretch and made it an excit­ing game,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said. “They are a big, athletic team. There was a bit of back and forth, and they won three draw controls in a row and were able to convert on our goalie.” 
Junior goalkeeper Ellie Hilling notched six saves in between the pipes for the Irish, and sopho­more midfielder/attack Lind­say Powell led Notre Dame with four goals in the game, bringing her team-leading season total to 27 scores. Irish senior attack Maggie Tamasitis recorded five points and assisted on both of Notre Dame’s overtime goals. 
After escaping from Piscat­away, N.J., unscathed, the Irish headed to Baltimore to face a Loyola (7-3, 3-0) team in search of its fourth win over a ranked opponent this season. After the Greyhounds and the Irish each had scoring runs of four consec­utive goals in the opening half, Loyola carried a 7-5 lead into the break. 
The teams traded goals in the early minutes of the second half before Loyola embarked on an 8-0 run, spanning more than 17 minutes, giving the home team an 17-8 advantage. Notre Dame scored three straight goals to end the game, but was unable to erase the substantial deficit. 

“I think it was obviously a game of a couple momentum shifts … I think the biggest shift was draw controls and their pos­session style,” Halfpenny said. “They basically won the draw and burned a lot of clock [during their runs], and that was a big game-changer.” 
In the draw-control battle — a category in which the Irish have struggled all season — Notre Dame won 11 of the 13 draws in the first half, before controlling only six of 17 in the final half. 
Loyola outshot the Irish 36­27 in the game and put 25 shots on goal to Notre Dame’s 19. The Greyhounds took advantage of Notre Dame’s 30 fouls in the game by converting five of six free-position shots. 
With the Irish loss, No. 1 Northwestern (9-0) remains the only unbeaten team in Division 
I. Despite losing for the first time this season, the Irish maintain confidence, Halfpenny said. 
“I mean, it is one of 16. Loyola is a very good team, they are very athletic, they have a lot of fire­power, they have a great goal­keeper, they are number one in the Big East,” she said. “It is cer­tainly an opportunity that we can go back and learn from.” 
Notre Dame will look to get back on track when it resumes Big East play Thursday night when they host Syracuse in Ar­lotta Stadium at 7 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish improve to 14-7 with weekend sweep 

By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
On a day when 13 members of the Irish played in at least one match, Notre Dame  (14-7) took down opponents Ball State, 6-1, and St. Bonaventure, 7-0. 
The Irish excelled against their opposition all day, winning every match in two sets, with the exception of senior Casey Watt’s narrow 6-3, 7-6 (7-5) loss to ju­nior Dalton Albertin of Ball State (14-7) at No. 1 singles. 
“I thought we did a really good job of winning the matches that we won when we got ahead,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “I thought [senior] Niall Fitzger­ald played really well against Ball State. I thought [sophomore] Greg Andrews played well. 
“I thought we were in control in the doubles. We just took con­trol of the match and did a pretty good job.” 
The Irish followed up the vic­tory over Ball State with another strong performance against St. Bonaventure (1-10) — a match in which the Irish sent out a much different lineup to meet the Bonnies. Andrews and Fitzger­ald moved up to No.1 and No. 2 singles, respectively, and junior Spencer Talmadge played with Andrews at No. 1 doubles.  Oth­erwise, the lineup was made up of younger, less-experienced players. 
“I was pleased with the poise the younger guys showed,” Bayl­iss said. “When you haven’t been in there on a regular basis, there is a lot of adrenaline pumping and your heart is racing and it’s hard to be calm and poised. I thought we did a good job of that.” 

While the Irish received solid performances all-around, fresh­man Wyatt McCoy and junior Michael Moore put forth par­ticularly strong efforts against St. Bonaventure. The duo first played together at No. 2 doubles, winning 8-1. McCoy and Moore then went on to win matches at No. 3 and No. 4 singles, respec­tively — dropping only three games between the two. 
“We told Michael Moore he was the player of the day be­cause he only lost one game,” Bayliss said. “He must have hit twenty aces and another twenty winners with his forehand.” 
With two victories on the day for the Irish, the only nega­tive that emerged on Saturday was the weather. The Irish had planned to play their first out­door match at home against Ball State, but the colder weather kept them inside the Eck Tennis Pavilion for both matches. 
“We were hoping to play out­doors, and it would have been better for us long run to play outdoors, but at eleven o’clock this morning when the match started it was 37 degrees,” Bayl­iss said. “Not getting to play out­doors was a little bit of a setback in preparation for the upcoming week.” 
The Irish have four matches left before the Big East champi­onships, one of which will occur at home Wednesday against Big East foe DePaul. Next weekend, the Irish will travel to Texas to take on Southern Methodist and Texas A&M. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
tice Friday with turf toe. 
Kelly 

The coaching staff has sin­gled out Williams as one of the continued from page 20 spring’s main improvements 
— mainly with his effort. Wil­said other, less-experienced-liams said the coaches had linebackers may get a shot at previous meetings with him playing time as well. about his effort  a year ago. 
“I’d say it’s a very competitive “Ishaq is learning how to battle and I’d say Carlo’s got an practice,” Diaco said.  “He’s opportunity to continue to press learning how to compete at and play more,” Kelly said. “We this level and prepare to com-are just going to let that [po-pete at this level. There’s a lot sition battle] go, because we less plays where he’s loafing know what we have and we are or not giving effort.” going to let those guys contin-Kelly harped on Williams’ ue to compete. They have got potential when he gives the equal reps over there, and then effort the coaches have been add [sophomore Jarrett] Grace looking for. and [sophomore Joe] Schmidt “He’s getting there. The and [junior] Kendall [Moore] light is starting to go on,” inside. It’s a nice competitive Kelly said. “We had a couple spring for us inside that we can of instances today where we play a lot of those guys and get had some one-on-one match-good film on them.” ups with [sophomore tight 
Juniors Danny Spond and end] Troy Niklas and Ishaq Prince Shembo and sophomore Williams. It was pretty excit-Ishaq Williams will see time ing stuff. So he’s getting there, at the outside linebacker po-you know he has got to do it sitions, nicknamed Cat — the consistently, but we know pass rusher — and Dog — the what he is capable of when it coverage backer. all starts to come together.” 
Shembo has been earning reps mostly at the Cat position Contact Matthew DeFranks at this spring, but he sat out prac-mdefrank@nd.edu 
to late-inning rallies. right-hander Pat Connaughton Notre Dame junior goal-
Hudgins 

“They turned the tables on us stepped on to the mound and 
Doyle 
keeper John Kemp collected 

on Saturday and Sunday,” Aoki provided strong middle relief, 10 saves for the Irish. 
continued from page 20 said. “We were able to make as the Irish were able to catch continued from page 20 Corrigan said Notre Dame’s 
that pitch, that play on Friday, up and tie the game at 3-3. In second-half performance in-
allowing his first run in 25.2 but unfortunately they were the seventh inning, the Bulls lead for the Irish. dicated his team has found 
innings off a solo shot by se-able to change that in the last tallied three more runs and St. John’s came out with two its identity. 
nior catcher Daniel Rockhold. two games.” closed Notre Dame out, defeat-quick goals in the second quar-“It was an important game 
The Irish senior continued his Junior right-handed pitcher ing the Irish, 6-4. ter, taking a 3-2 lead against a because the second half was 
strong performance by getting Adam Norton started Satur-Despite the solid relief by Notre Dame team that struggled very much the way we want 
out of a jam in the bottom of the day’s game for the Irish and Connaughton on Sunday, Aoki to find an offensive rhythm. to play all the time,” he said. 
sixth when South Florida had kept the score close, but South said a key difference between Red Storm sophomore mid-“We are finding our identity. 
the bases loaded. The game Florida’s offense took the game the two teams in the series was fielder Ryan Fitzgerald netted You get better because you 
was all knotted up at 3-3 after out of reach in the later in-the bullpen. his second goal of the game find out who you are, what 
nine innings and headed into nings. After falling behind 4-1 “Pat did a good job out of with just seven seconds remain-things you need to do to be at 
extras. Notre Dame freshman early on, Notre Dame rallied there today and so did Steve Sa­ing in the half, giving St. John’s your best, and we’re also get-
outfielder Conor Biggio deliv-when sophomore third base-batino,” Aoki said. “But I would a 4-3 lead at halftime. ting more and more people 
ered a clutch pinch-hit two-run man Eric Jagielo hit a two-like to see it more often. We Doyle said the Irish were pre-contributing.” 
single to give the Irish a 5-3 run home run, followed by need to attack the batters and pared to face an underrated Doyle said he enjoyed play-
lead.  There was no turning sophomore first baseman Trey the strike zone and get ahead Red Storm defense. ing in MetLife Stadium, home 
back, as the Irish piled on three Mancini’s solo shot to tie the in counts.” “They were playing tough de-of the NFL’s New York Giants 
more runs before closing out game at four. In the top of the The Irish will have a chance fense, and we knew that com-and New York Jets. 
the Bulls to end the game, 8-3. seventh, the Bulls exhausted to make adjustments this week ing in. They played some close “It was great. Anytime you 
“Our kids showed good resil-the Irish pitching staff, forcing with a matchup against Toledo, games with some really good get to play in an NFL stadium, 
ience,” Aoki said. “When South Notre Dame to go through five before traveling to face Seton teams,” he said. “We knew they it’s awesome,” Doyle said. “It 
Florida had a couple of oppor-pitchers, who allowed two runs Hall this weekend. were going to put up a fight, and was my first time playing in 
tunities to win, we were able and gave up the lead to make it “We need to snap this two-they certainly did in the first a venue like this and I will 
to hold them off, and then we 6-4. South Florida managed to game skid and go into the Big half.” never forget it.” 
were able to put things together pull away and win, 11-6. East series this weekend with Irish junior midfielder Ryan The Irish will next host 
in the late innings ourselves.” For the rubber match Sunday, some momentum,” Aoki said. Foley and senior midfielder Eric Providence on Saturday at 
The momentum shifted the Notre Dame sophomore right-Notre Dame will host Toledo Keppeler each scored early in 1:30 p.m. at Arlotta Stadium. 
Bulls’ way Saturday and Sun-handed pitcher Sean Fitzgerald on Tuesday at 5:35 p.m. the third quarter to put Notre 
day, as the Bulls took a page gave the Irish a solid start and Dame back in control with a Contact Megan Golden at 
out of Notre Dame’s book and kept the Irish in contention. In Contact Brendan Bell at 5-4 lead. Doyle added his sec-mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
orchestrated two wins thanks the fourth inning, freshman bbell2@nd.edu ond goal of the day, and both teams exchanged goals to end the quarter with a 7-5 Irish ad­vantage. 
Notre Dame opened the fourth quarter with six con­secutive goals. Irish sophomore midfielder Jim Marlatt scored three goals within 1:19 to start the rally, and put Notre Dame up 10-5. Three additional play­ers would score for the Irish be­fore St. John’s found the net for its final goal of the day. 
The Irish outscored the Red Storm 6-1 in the fourth quarter and 10-2 in the second half. 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said the difference in the game was picking up ground balls and attacking St. John’s defense. 
“[In the first] half, we were a little bit lethargic and not very crisp,” he said. “Our decision-making and our play improved in the second half. I thought we played well, hard, smart, very aggressively and made good de­cisions. I was very pleased with the second half.” 
Marlatt led the team with a career-high three goals, and was named the game’s most valuable player. 
Despite a sluggish start for the Irish, the offense scored a season-high 13 goals and fea­tured nine different scorers. 



WILL SHORTz 
EUgENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 




HENRy ARNOLD 

KELLy LyNCH 
JUMBLE 

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
MIKE ARgIRION 

LEE HAggENJOS and ALEx gRISWOLD 
THE LONDON EXPRESS 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Right in the middle 
Irish linebacking corps will play key role in 2012 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor 
There is the humble and hard-working All-American. There is the experienced tag-team. There is the cat. There is the dog. There is the group of developing youngsters. 
This is Notre Dame’s line-backing corps, a group that will be counted on to play be­hind the aggressive and prom­ising defensive line and in front of an inexperienced and un­proven secondary. 
Senior Manti Te’o returns to Notre Dame after passing up an opportunity to be drafted in the NFL’s first round. In re­turning, he previously asked Irish defensive coordinator Bob Diaco to treat him like the worst player on the team. 
“[Diaco] hasn’t treated me bad,” Te’o said. “He’s been great. He’s corrected me on all my little mistakes. He makes sure I can identify them and when I make a mistake, I know what I did and where it started from.” 
Despite totaling 128 tack­les and five sacks last year, Te’o and Diaco both said the veteran can still improve each practice. 
“We’re working on things ev­ery day,” Diaco said. “We just give him something to work on each day. He goes out on the field and he diligently tries to work on it. He’s all about get­ting better on a daily basis.” 
While Te’o has locked down the starting job at one inside linebacker position, the other has been up in the air since the beginning of last season, with seniors Carlo Calabrese and Dan Fox battling for play­ing time. 

Diaco, however, said the competition is not so much of a race. 
“I’m not sure it’s a race,” Di­aco said. “They’re both doing a great job. They both have in­credible value. They both could start on defense. One could be the Mike, one could be the Will. 
“The way we conduct our business on defense, there’s going to be enough plays for both of them to play.” 
Irish coach Brian Kelly echoed Diaco’s sentiments and 
see KELLY/page 18 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

ND falls to Loyola 17-11, suffers first loss of year 

By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 

Just two days after miracu­lously avoiding their first loss of the season, the No. 6 Irish saw their winning streak halted at eight games on the back end of a weekend road swing. 
Notre Dame scored two goals in the final minute of overtime to capture a 13-12 (OT) win over Rutgers on Friday before falling to No. 15 Loyola (Md.), 17-11, on Sunday. 
In the weekend opener, the Scarlet Knights (6-4, 1-1 Big East) forced overtime and net­ted the period’s first goal before Irish junior midfielder Jenny Granger scored with under a minute remaining to tie the game. Less than 40 seconds lat­er, Irish sophomore midfielder Margaret Smith deposited the game-winning goal, helping Notre Dame (8-1, 2-1) avoid the upset loss. 
Rutgers hammered out a 3-1 lead in the first half by control­ling the pace of the game and limiting Notre Dame’s explosive offense. Eventually, the Irish managed to regain control, de­positing six-straight goals in a run that spanned into the sec­ond half. 
The Irish failed to put the game away in regulation, how­ever, as a Rutgers goal with 15 
see RUTGERS/page 17 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish sweep Huskies to open Big East play 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 

The Irish opened up the de­fense of their Big East regular season title with a three-game sweep of Connecticut, kicking off conference play within the friendly confines of Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Notre Dame (17-10, 3-0 Big East) defeated the Huskies (13-14, 3-3) in Saturday’s doubleheader with a 5-2 win followed by a 7-3 victory, and captured its sixth consecutive win Sunday with a 7-2 win. 
“It’s really important to set a precedence of our expecta­tions in the Big East,” Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. “And our expectations are al­ways to win the Big East.” 
The Irish took a step in the right direction toward another conference crown with their victory in the first game. 
The Irish trailed 1-0 going into the bottom of the third inning before senior infielder Dani Miller blasted her team-leading sixth home run of the season to give Notre Dame a 3-1 lead. 
The two-run lead was plenty for sophomore pitcher Laura Winter, who was undeterred by four Irish errors. Winter al­lowed two unearned runs and struck out eight Connecticut hitters en route to her tenth complete game of the season. 
see WINTER/page 17 
BASEBALL 

Bulls take two of three to cool off Irish squad 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
In three close games be­tween Big East foes, Notre Dame defeated South Florida in an extra-inning thriller Fri­day night, before falling to the Bulls on Saturday and Sunday. 
“It was two pretty evenly-matched teams,” Irish head coach Mik Aoki said. “They made a few more plays then we were able to that made the dif­ference for the series.” 
On Friday night, Notre Dame (16-10, 4-2 Big East) faced USF’s (20-9, 5-1 Big East) daunting senior left-handed pitcher Andrew Barbosa. The Bulls’ six-foot-eight Barbosa struck out all six batters in the first two innings, but the Irish managed to wear the ace down during the game. 
“Barbosa was dominating us early, but we got his pitch count up,” Aoki said. “We got an opportunity to tie it and ac­tually go ahead against him.” 
The Irish utilized senior right-handed pitcher Will Hudgins, who wasn’t to be outdone by Barbosa, to take a 3-1 lead. Hudgins’ scoreless streak was snapped, though, 
see HUDGINS/page 18 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Marlatt earns MVP in win 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 

In pursuit of its sixth con­secutive win, No. 6 Notre Dame opened the Konica Mi­nolta Big City Classic with a 13-6 victory over Big East foe St. John’s. 
Irish sophomore attack Westy Hopkins scored the first goal of the tripleheader at MetLife Stadium, giving the Irish (7-1, Big East 2-0) an early lead one minute into the contest. The Red Storm (5-4, Big East 1-2) responded with a goal midway through the first quarter, but Notre Dame freshman attack Conor Doyle netted a goal to regain a 2-1 
see DOYLE/page 18 





