ThE iNdEpENdENT TO uNcOVER NEwspapER sERViNG ThE TRuTh NOTRE daME aNd aNd REpORT saiNT MaRy’s iT accuRaTEly 

VOluME 46, issuE 113 | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2013 | NdsMcObsERVER.cOM 
Pope Francis celebrates first Easter at Vatican 
Notre Dame students present for iconic Mass, describe a “phenomenal experience.” 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Managing Editor 

ROME — This sunday, more than 100 Notre dame study abroad students joined the thousands packed into st. peter’s square to attend the first Easter Mass presided over by pope Francis. 
bobby weltner, a junior studying abroad in london, said he loved attending this very special italian Mass. 
“Getting to see the pope up close and to celebrate com­munion with people from around the world is pretty special. it’s been a phenom­enal experience,” weltner said. 
after the Mass, pope Francis boarded the “pope­mobile” and shook hands with the people in the square, kissed several babies and em­braced attendees confined to wheelchairs lined up along the road. weltner said pope Francis’s special attention to some of society’s most vul­nerable awed onlookers. 
“There were some really touching moments when he was driving around,” weltner said. “he was hugging a spe­cial needs kid, and he really held that hug for a long time.” 
amanda bambury, a junior studying abroad in paris this year, said she appreciated how much time pope Francis 
see EasTER PAGE 4 


 MEGHAN THOMASSEN | The  Observer 

Crowds gather in St. Peter’s Square to attend the first Easter Mass celebrated by the new pope. After the service, Pope Francis walked through the crowd, greeting and embracing those in attendance. 


By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Editor 
Juniors alex coccia and Nancy Joyce stepped into their roles as student body president and vice president, respectively, Monday. coccia said the passion that pro­pelled their platform through the February elections will be a defining part of their admin­istration in the year ahead. 
coccia, from columbus, Ohio, and siegfried hall, majors in africana studies 


Coccia, Joyce assume presidency 
member of Notre dame’s var­sity fencing team. Joyce is an arabic and Economics double major with a peace studies minor. 
Running on a platform that prioritized student engage­ment and interaction, coccia and Joyce said their first goal will be creating an effective communication strategy to better connect with the stu­dent body. 
“we’re working on dif­ferent ideas with Facebook 

and peace studies, and is a see GOVERNMENT PAGE 7 
sMc ends varsity swim program 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint Mary’s Editor 

karen Johnson, vice president of student affairs at saint Mary’s, informed students March 19 of the plan to end the varsity swim­ming program, a decision made by college president carol ann Mooney and her cabinet in col­laboration with director of ath­letics Julie schroeder-biek. 
The varsity swimming pro­gram began in 1975 and since then, five students have received a total of 12 all-conference indi­vidual awards. 
“The elimination of swim­ming as a varsity sport was a dif­ficult decision and one that was not taken lightly,” Johnson said. “however, waning interest in participation, the lack of appro­priate on-campus facilities and the recent resignation of current coach Mark benishek led the leadership of the college to this conclusion.” 
see swiM PAGE 5 

Photo courtesy of Liz Palmer 

The 2012-2013 Saint Mary’s swim team poses for its last team pho­to before the swim program dismantled. 


parents rank Nd as No. 4 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Editor 
parents listed Notre dame as the No. 4 “dream school” for their children in the princeton Review’s annual “college hopes and worries” survey, marking the second consecu­tive year the university has held that place. 
The princeton Review web­site states “dream colleges” are schools parents wish their child could attend if cost and admission were not contrib­uting factors, and the 2013 list ranks Notre dame behind stanford university, harvard university and princeton university. 
students ranked their own top-10 dream colleges in a dif­ferent list, and Notre dame was not included in that set. 
see dREaM PAGE 4 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.O. box 779, Notre dame, iN 46556 024 south dining hall, Notre dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew Gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: Grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby Mckenna                               Online Editor:    kevin song Advertising Manager: Emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 


Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of Notre dame du lac and saint Mary’s 
college.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-chief, Managing Editor, 
assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post Office information The Observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 south dining hall Notre dame, iN 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices pOsTMasTER send address corrections to: The Observer p.O. box 779 024 south dining hall Notre dame, iN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 





QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

Where did you meet your best friend? 

Bridget Callaghan 
sophomore 
howard hall 
“at the golf course.” 

Allison McKown 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“Frosh-O.” 

Max Lachowecki 
sophomore 
O’Neill hall 
“On the playground in kindergarten.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Nick Besler 
sophomore 
O’Neill hall 
“baltimore, Md.” 

Noelle Langmack 
freshman 
McGlinn hall 
“sixth grade.” 

Ted Cogan 
freshman 
O’Neill hall 
“pre-k.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra brian hartnett Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: catherine Owers d.h. kim peter durbin cory bernard 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
steph wulz Maria Fernandez 

Photo Viewpoint 

Baseball Zen Meditation Relay for Life Blood Softball Sunday Mass 
Michael kramm Tabitha Ricketts 
Eck Baseball Stadium Coleman-Morse Drive Melissa Cook Stadium Basilica of the Sacred 
5:35 p.m. - 7:35 p.m. Center Grace Hall 12 p.m.-4 p.m. Heart Game vs. Valparaiso. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Doubleheader vs. 10 a.m.-11 a.m. 




Corrections 

Practice sitting and All donors receive a Villanova. Music by the Notre 
The Observer regards itself as Grotto Trip walking meditation. free ND T-shirt. Dame Liturgical Choir. a professional publication and 
Bond Hall 

strives for the highest standards 
10 p.m.-11 p.m. Lectio Divina Men’s Tennis Hawai’i Club Women’s Tennis 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Asian American Coleman-Morse Eck Tennis Pavilion Presents: Lu’au 2013 Eck Tennis Pavilion 
however, recognize that we will make 
Association will Center 4 p.m.-6 p.m. Stepan Center 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
lead a walkover for 6 p.m.-7 p.m. Match vs. SMU. 5 p.m.-8 p.m. Match vs. Memphis. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
an informal prayer Meditate on the Food, music, dance 
we can correct our error. 

session. upcoming Gospel. and entertainment. 




Faculty studies concussions 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
News writer 
baraka bouts and bengal bouts may be two of the most anticipated annual athletic events at Notre dame, but for computer science faculty mem­bers dr. christian poellabauer and dr. patrick Flynn, the fights offered a chance to put two years’ worth of concussion di­agnostics research to the test. 
“impacted brain function can cause slurred speech,” poellabauer said. “specifically, we isolate vowels in the words spoken by the athlete into a microphone and look at the different frequencies that are presented in [his] speech and see how they deviate from the norm.” 
The program analyzes a box­er’s voice recording after his or her match and compares it to a baseline vocal sample recorded during a pre-fight physical ex­amination, poellabauer said. The algorithm then “spits out” a score representing the possibil­ity of a concussion. 
“if the score is above a certain threshold, then we would refer the athlete to a doctor for exam­ination,” poellabauer said. 
For bengal and baraka bouts, boxers could opt into the test, which required them to speak certain words into an ipad mi­crophone, poellabauer said.
 “we looked just a little deep­er into the actual composition of the voice to see if there’s any kind of … change in the fre­quencies or the amplitudes,” she said. “we were focusing on the vowels because they’re the easiest to examine, to find changes. and luckily we were able to find such changes.” 

poellabauer and Flynn said these indicators of a poten­tial concussion include dis­torted vowels, hypernasality and imprecise consonants, but they agreed the biggest chal­lenge for the team is collecting enough data to support effec­tive analysis. 
“it turns out that a boxing tournament is almost ideal in terms of data collection,” Flynn said. “we don’t want anyone to get concussed, but they’re guar­anteed to happen in a large-scale boxing tournament.” 
The program does not guar­antee an accurate final diagno­sis of potential concussions, nor is it meant to do so, Flynn said. 
“The idea is to make this a rapid screening tool that basi­cally anyone can perform, and it’s intended to characterize the risk,” Flynn said. “it’s not diag­nosing per se, but it is providing this score that if it has any kind of elevated level, you would probably suggest to a coach that a follow-up medical visit is necessary.” 
The application has the po­tential to be applied toward other types of brain dam­age, including diseases like parkinson’s and alzheimer’s, Flynn said. There are also plans to team with the cleveland clinic to expand the test’s use to other sports and potentially prepare it for the commercial market. 
“The goal of the app is to be fairly conservative,” Flynn said. “any commercial or widely-used version of the app would need to guard against false negatives.” 
The project began nearly two years ago in the fall of 2011 when poellabauer and his team, which includes additional fac­ulty and students, contacted university physician James Moriarty about applying their diagnostic test to athletes in danger of concussions. 
“we actually had some stu­dents doing a class project on using tablets for detecting brain injuries,” poellabauer said. “after that project was over, we had the idea of trying to reach out to dr. Moriarty … to see if we could use such a test on cam­pus, and he offered for us to test for the boxing competitions.” 
with the support of Notre dame and the cleveland clinic, poellabauer and Flynn said they hope the app will be more widely tested. 
“it’s very preliminary, but there’s definitely interest in our work,” Flynn said. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
paid adVERTisEMENT 



service unites campus, city 
By CAROLINA WILSON 
News writer 
Notre dame and saint Mary’s will join the south bend community for their fifth annual communiversity day on saturday. 
This annual day of service unites local college students and community members in an effort to complete vari­ous volunteering projects around the city. Freshman adam henderson, one of the event planners, said communiversity day fosters a positive relationship between Notre dame, saint Mary’s and south bend. 
“communiversity day pro­vides a unique opportunity for students to get off cam­pus and volunteer, encourag­ing many students to go into south bend for a good cause,” henderson said. “it shows that we are committed to making the area a better place.” 
The annual communiversity tradition began in 2009, henderson said. The Robinson community learning center, the city of south bend and the directors of community relations and social concerns in Notre dame’s student gov­ernment decided involving students and community members in volunteering projects would increase the positive contact between the campus and the broader community. 
The day-long event at first involved only a few hundred people, but last year, partici­pation reached approximately 750 volunteers, henderson said. 
senior kelsey Eckenrode, a member of the communiversity day plan­ning team, said the group hopes the event will extend to a larger variety of participants this year. 
“although Notre dame stu­dents make up the majority of student volunteers, we are putting a large emphasis on getting students from other area colleges to participate as well,” she said.  “students from saint Mary’s college, ivy Tech and [indiana university south bend] are all expected to participate this year. we also expect more community members to take part this year than in year’s past.”
 There are 35 different proj­ects lined up this year, includ­ing painting fire hydrants, preparing gardens, cleaning up parks, marking storm drains to discourage pollutio, and repainting crosswalkw, Eckenrode said. 
“The day will begin with a homeward bound walk/5k Run at the Robinson community learning center, which benefits local agencies 

“CommUniversity Day provides a unique opportunity for students to get off campus and volunteer, encouraging many students to go into South Bend for a good cause.” 
Adam Henderson 
planner 
CommUniversity Day 
that help the homeless,” she said. “There will also be a bus tour of the Notre dame cam­pus for interested community members.” 
Volunteer projects willl span the late morning and af­ternoon, Eckenrode said. The day will culminate in a pic­nic at 3 p.m. at the Robinson community learning center for those involved. 
although the city govern­ment suggests most of the projects, Eckenrode said other community and university groups are encouraged to sub­mit specific project proposals.
 The ideal volunteer projects pair certain jobs with organi­zations expressing interest in those areas, henderson said. 
“This [partnering] is a good way to get people to partici­pate in the communiversity day,” he said. “people are more likely to participate and have a better time if they work with an organization they are familiar with and that their friends are a part of,  one of the goals of the ser­vice projects is to promote in­creased student participation in the south bend community, henderson said. 
Eckenrode said communiversity day enables students to give back to south bend. 
“it is intended to be a cel­ebration of our community,” she said. 
Contact Carolina Wilson at cwilso16@nd.edu 



ThE ObsERVER | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2013 | NdsMcObsERVER.cOM 


Easter 
cONTiNuEd FROM paGE 1 
took to greet the crowd. 
“he went around a lot try­ing to see as many pilgrims as he could. we were running around trying to catch the pope,” bambury said. “it’s amazing that so many people tried to get to the square, just to go to Mass with the pope. it was great to hear people cheer, ‘Viva la papa!’ There’s just so much love for our pope.” 
Regina Gilmour, a junior studying in london, said the students who partici­pated in campus Ministry’s Easter pilgrimage “track” in Rome over the weekend said they felt honored and lucky to participate in the special day. 
“it was intense,” Gilmour said. “it’s an experience you can’t have on any other trips. Notre dame just has that connection that you wouldn’t have been able to [have] on your own.” 
Gilmour said doing the pil­grimage for her first visit to Rome infused the trip with a more religious spirit. 
“what struck me the most was you would see all these ancient Roman ruins and then also talk about how christians had been mar­tyred there,” Gilmour said. 
Junior Mary coghlin, who is also studying in london this semester, said the Easter sunday Mass gave her goose bumps. 
“it was like a dorm Mass, but in st. peter’s square.” coghlin said. “it was beautiful.” 
Jack Trunzo, a junior study­ing abroad in london, said he sat in the aisles closest to the pope. he said his family re­ceived tickets from cardinal James Michael harvey, who is from their hometown of Milwaukee. 
“My archbishop connect­ed me to the cardinal and i was able to meet him for dinner one night,” Trunzo said. “he was fantastic, he’s just kind of a normal guy. he was fluent in italian and ordered everything for the table.” 
Trunzo said cardinal harvey spoke about his ex­perience in the conclave that elected pope Francis. 
“Every time we talked about conclave he would use the words, ‘when i was locked up.’ he said that Trunzo said his family sat of saint peter’s basilica,” he jokingly — it was pretty five or six rows back from said. “it was fantastic.” funny,” he said. “he also the cardinals and the altar. talked about home and “we had a really unique Contact Meghan Thomassen about Milwaukee.” vantage point in the shade at mthomass@nd.edu 




Dream 
cONTiNuEd FROM paGE 1 
university spokesman dennis brown said the ad­missions department takes such rankings “with a grain of salt” due to differences in methodology, but this one reflects Notre dame’s unique appeal to parents. 
“i think that [the ranking] reflects the basic tenets of the university: a commit­ment to undergraduate edu­cation, a sense of community and an ongoing commitment to faith and religious iden­tity,” brown said. “The com­bination of things that Notre dame offers … is unusual in a lot of different ways, and some parents take comfort in that.” 
Notre dame is the only re­ligiously-affiliated school on either list, and brown said the university’s dual empha­sis on faith and academics is ideal for many interested families. 
“For people whose faith is important to them, the fact that you can come to a place like Notre dame and practice your faith, … yet still at the same time get a world-class education, is crucial,” brown said. “you can be a part of a broader university commu­nity that will pay dividends throughout your life in terms of the alumni network and the bonds created in the resi­dence halls.” 
Robert Mundy, director of admissions, said it is “hard to predict” whether the rank­ing will affect Notre dame’s future applicant pools, but trends in the past decade have shown parents are be­coming more involved in their children’s college selec­tion processes. 
“students are ultimately making the decisions, but the influence of the parents has increased,” Mundy said. “whether it’s generational or financial or due to another factor, parents are getting more actively involved in where [their children] apply and actually attend.” 
Mundy said comparing the parents’ impressions of a university to those of their children can be an interest­ing and informative way to interpret such a ranking. 
“your parents’ impres­sions or expectations about your college experience are a little different than your own impressions, and i saw that clearly as i looked through the rest of the princeton Review survey results,” he said. “it’s all about looking for differ­ent things, which depends on which role you’re speaking from. ... There’s no disputing that parents have a different view [than students].” 

Notre dame’s policies on aspects such as dorm life and parietals are seen dif­ferently by parents and stu­dents, Mundy said, and this may have contributed to the discrepancies on the two princeton Review lists. 
“i really do believe that the nature of the Notre dame family strikes a chord with the parents, and that’s clearly tied to our mission,” Mundy said. “Things like that ap­peal to parents in a differ­ent way than they appeal to students.” 
while he said there is no way to determine what the ranking will mean for Notre dame’s popular perception and future applicant pools, the parents’ increased in­fluence on their students’ college decisions make this “good news all around.” 
“Obviously, the students are the ones who sit down for dinner every night with their parents, and if they have a positive impression [of Notre dame] in their minds, that can affect them either ap­parently or subliminally,” Mundy said. 
brown said such rank­ings serve as “good starting points” for prospective par­ents and their students but are not weighted heavily in the admissions office. 
“college surveys are of some use, but people who are serious about their col­lege choice are going to dig in deeper,” he said. “while we’d rather be ranked than not, at the same time we recognize that they’re … just a starting point.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 







Speaker reviews spirituality 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
News writer 
professor Emerita Mary Jo weaver of indiana university offered an in depth account of catholic spirituality through­out the ages on Tuesday. 
Members of the saint Mary’s community gathered in stapleton lounge for her lecture on the “Evolutionary adventure of catholic spirituality,” the last in a series of the 2013 Endowed 
spring  lectures  sponsored  
by  the  college’s  center  for  
spirituality.  

The former professor — and daughter of a saint Mary’s alumna of 1937 — received her doctorate degree in theol­ogy in 1973 from Notre dame. since then, she has written several pieces on the politics of christianity and women’s roles in the catholic church. Jesus to the greatest extent 

“sixty years ago i would have possible, she said. The second never been invited to give a talk Vatican council adjusted the like this,” weaver said. religion’s attitude in 1964. 
There was a time when “it opened up new possibili­catholicism confined humans’ ties to the dogmatic constitu­spiritual freedom to heaven tion of the church and held and hell, she said. a universal call to holiness,” 
“you had to choose between weaver said. the transitory, earthly plea-along with initiating interre­sures and the immortality of-ligious dialogue and mandat­fered in the afterlife,” weaver ing liturgical change, she said said. “spiritual life was fearful “it defined revelation as dy­and cautious.” namic, alive and personal.” 
This sort of ethos is known This change nourished plu­as “trial spirituality,” she said. ralist thinkers like Thomas catholic clergy members took Merton, a monk who combined vows meant to withdraw them western monastic traditions to from everyday life. weaver said buddhism. she believes the vocations the “Modern and post-modern church offered were “meant to spirituality offer alternatives to attract a few brave souls.” trial spirituality,” weaver said. 
The excessive time spent Trial spirituality is the in solitude was an attempt to achieve perfection and embody see spiRiTualiTy PAGE 8 
paid adVERTisEMENT 


Swim 
cONTiNuEd FROM paGE 1 
The lack of an on-campus pool was the main factor leading to the elimination of the varsity sport, Johnson said. For the past four years, the team has used Notre dame’s facilities for both practice and competitions. 
“because of his position at Notre dame, coach benishek was able to assure our team had practice time at the Rolfs aquatic center,” Johnson said. “prior to that, our swimmers practiced as late as 10 p.m. or at a local high school. Facing the uncertainty of practice facilities and the poten­tial hardship on our swimmers and our concern for their safety was a key consideration in this decision.” 
benishek, who left at the end of the season for a job in seattle, said his job at Rolfs did not influ­ence his ability to acquire prac­tice times for his team. 
“i worked at Notre dame, but there was not preferential treat­ment given to me or the saint Mary’s swim team, at least any special treatment i knew about,” he said. “i had to apply for pool times like any other group or club looking for pool times would have to.” 

Though saint Mary’s never had its own pool, benishek said the swim team always found a way to get past that challenge. another major factor behind the decision to end the program was the lack of students interested in swimming next season, Johnson said. This deficiency was due to various events, such as study abroad, senior graduations and an uncertain number of incom­ing swimmers, she said. 
benishek and liz palmer, a se­nior swimmer, said the college may have underestimated the number of walk-ons it receives every year. 
“i was never recruited,” palmer said. “i just walked on. a lot of girls did that.” 
The college has received “very little feedback from the commu­nity” about the end of the swim­ming program and does not anticipate the decision will deter future applicants, Johnson said. 
“i think that this decision will discourage very few from ap­plying to and coming to saint Mary’s,” she said. “Our swim program is small and we haven’t met with many possible recruits this year.” 
a number of current swim­mers said they wished they knew the program was going to be eliminated because this decision may have affected their decision to attend the college. 
“had i known that saint Mary’s would not have a swim team for all four years i would … be here, i would not have come,” first-year carolyn Neville said. “swimming was a huge part of my college search. i do not want to transfer schools now because i have made great friends and enjoy being here, but i definitely want to find a way to keep swim­ming competitively.” 
benishek said he is disappoint­ed other saint Mary’s girls will not be able to experience being on the team. 
“it is not just a sport,” benishek said. “it is an opportunity to form relationships that go beyond the four years on campus. My heart especially goes out to the juniors, sophomores and freshman that will not be able to finish out their careers at saint Mary’s. it really is a shame.” 
despite the college’s decision to end the swim team, Johnson said every intercollegiate sport is an asset to the school. 
“athletes become leaders and build strong communities,” she said. “we are proud of all of athletes. additionally, on our campus, athletes have strong academic careers. 
Johnson said the college will not sponsor a swim team until the college has a pool on site and “at this time there are no plans to build one.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adVERTisEMENT 




Government said. “some of these things would be a good public forum “fully support” the call to that energy and make sure will continue, but we’ll leave it for people to talk about it,” she action movement on campus. [the cabinet members] stay 
cONTiNuEd FROM paGE 1 

up to the new department di-said. “in the last few weeks, we’ve empowered and energized, we and Twitter to reach students rectors to take it as they see fit, The pair has already begun definitely become clear on can do what needs to be done.” where they are,” coccia said. however it works with our mis-to discuss the addition of a what our role in call to action coccia said he and Joyce “we shouldn’t expect students sion and our platform.” coffee cart in debartolo hall, might be,” he said. “we sup-“couldn’t be more confident” to go out of their way to take a coccia said on-campus coccia said, and it has proven port the celebration of diver-in the cabinet selections they look at our website, we should immigration reform is a to be “a feasible idea.” sity within our office and now made, and he said he hopes come to them.” long-term goal for the admin-“we have had some initial we have a clear sense of the their passion for service will 
coccia said “internally effi-istration, and they have start-conversations [about the cof-direction that’s headed. i’m facilitate more interaction cient” communication among ed conversations already to fee cart], and now we want to excited to move forward on between student government executive cabinet members move it forward. follow through with some of this with the other student and the student body. will also help the administra-“we’re already talking with those to gauge what the real-groups.” “i’m excited just to have a tion serve the student body. administrators and various istic first steps would be with The two have already ad-very busy office upstairs [in 
“we’ve definitely got a great groups about [immigration that,” he said. “it’s definitely dressed the incoming class laFortune], with people in team this year in our cabinet, reform] and working to get un-something on our horizon.” of 2017 at three prospective and out all the time,” he said. and they’re bringing a lot of documented students allowed Joyce said she and coccia student events, and coccia “That’s something we definite-new ideas and passion,” he on campus,” coccia said. “it’s have added to their plat-said they hope to do all in ly want to stress … because it’s said. “we want to make sure a conversation that has been form since the elections and their power to help them “hit your office as a student, there’s that we’re comfortable using going on with a lot of catholic have met with saint Mary’s the ground running” in the even an area for studying, and the resources and the connec-schools, and Notre dame is student body president and fall. people should feel free to be tions that the others have with one of the few catholic schools vice president to collaborate “we want to reach out to the there.” administrators and the back-where this is not a reality yet. on plans for an event simi-freshmen a bit earlier in the Joyce echoed the invitation ground and knowledge that “we’re working with peo-lar to “support a belle, love summer, just to invite them to students and said the easiest people bring to the table.” ple in the theology depart-a bell” in the fall. support a into student government and way to start will be reaching 
while only one cabinet mem-ment, people at the center belle, love a belle is a saint give them our names as a re-out to students on Facebook ber, sophomore Max brown, for social concerns and other Mary’s student Government source for anything that might and Twitter. director of the department student groups to bring this association-sponsored event come up during their fresh-“The biggest thing is that we of academic affairs, will re-conversation to the forefront that raises awareness of anxi-man year,” he said. “it’s some-are here for the students. there main from the outgoing group, and do what we can with it ety, depression and suicide on thing simple, but we want to would be no need for that of-Joyce said the administration from our positions in student campus. work on it.” fice upstairs if the student is working to achieve “a sense government.” “i think there are a couple of Joyce said the energy in the body didn’t have concerns that of continuity.” Joyce said the administra-groups on campus that would cabinet is the most exciting needed to be addressed,” she 
“we are very fortunate that tion plans to begin a town be interested in collaborating part of their term so far. said. “come up to the office the outgoing administration hall initiative as early as next on something like [support a “i know it’s sometimes hard with ideas or send them to us. did a great job of transition-month to address potential belle, love a belle] on Notre to sustain this kind of energy we want students to know that ing us, putting together really changes to Food services. dame’s campus,” Joyce said. over a whole year, but we’ve there will be action as a result thorough transition materi-“we’d really like to know coccia said they will con-got a really great group, and of their ideas.” als to outline their initiatives what kind of changes students tinue to co-sponsor staNd i’m very happy with the way throughout the year and those would like to see with the meal against hate week with Notre it’s come together so far,” she Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski that are still ongoing,” Joyce plan or Grab ‘n Go, and this dame’s core council and said. “i think if we can harness at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
paid adVERTisEMENT 



ThE ObsERVER | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2013 | NdsMcObsERVER.cOM 



Critics question whether Facebook is getting old 
Facebook you kind of fit in better, from her nearly 1,800 friends, she

  Associated Press 
because other people had one,” still uses Facebook’s messaging 

NEw yORk — To see what says Rachel Fernandez, 18, who feature to reach out to people she Facebook has become, look no first signed on to the site four or knows, such as a German foreign further than the hutzler 571 five years ago. exchange student she met two banana slicer. and now? “Facebook got kind years ago. 
sometime last year, people of boring,” she says. Fernandez uses Facebook in began sharing tongue-in-cheek chatter about Facebook’s de-the same way that people use online reviews of the banana-mise never seems to die down, email or the telephone. but she shaped piece of yellow plastic whether it’s talk of “Facebook prefers using Facebook to com-with their Facebook friends. fatigue,” or grousing about how municate because everyone she Then those friends shared with the social network lost its cool knows is there. That’s a sign that their friends. soon, after amazon once grandma joined. The pew Facebook’s biggest asset may paid to promote it, posts featur-Research center’s internet and also be its biggest challenge. ing the $3.49 utensil were ap-american life project recently “we have never seen a social pearing in even more Facebook found that some 61 percent of space that actually works for feeds. Facebook users had taken a hia-everybody,” says danah boyd, 
at some point, though, the joke tus from the site for reasons that who studies youth culture, the got old. but there it was, again range from “too much gossip internet and social media as a and again‚ the banana slicer had and drama” to “boredom.” some senior researcher at Microsoft become a Facebook version of respondents said there simply Research. “people don’t want to that old knock-knock joke your isn’t enough time in their day for hang out with everybody they weird uncle has been telling for Facebook. have ever met.” “i was just going through my that’s been a complaint among years. if Facebook inc.’s users leave, Might Facebook go the way of daily email routine, reflecting on Facebook users for some time. 
The hutzler 571 phenomenon or even check in less frequently, email? Those who came of age the fact that it feels like batting Facebook surveys its users is a regular occurrence on the its revenue growth would suffer. in the “you’ve got mail” era can down a wall of locusts,” bogost regularly about their thoughts world’s biggest online social net-The company, which depends reminisce fondly about arriving says. on the site. Jane leibrock, whose work, which begs the question: on targeted advertising for most home from school and checking although email has gone from title at Facebook is user expe­has Facebook become less fun? of the money it makes, booked their aOl accounts to see if any-after-school treat to a dull routine rience researcher, says it was 
That’s something many users‚ revenue of $5.1 billion in 2012, up one sent them an electronic mes-in the space of 20 years, no one is about a year ago that she noticed especially those in their teens and from $3.7 billion a year earlier. sage. boyd, who is 35 (and legally ready to ring its death knell just people were complaining about early 20s‚ are asking themselves but so far, for every person who spells her name with no capital-yet. and similarly, Facebook’s “clutter” in their feeds. leibrock as they wade through endless has left permanently, several new ization), recalls being a teenager lost luster doesn’t necessarily asked them what they meant. posts, photos “liked” by people people have joined up. Facebook and “thinking email is the best foreshadow its obsolescence. it turns out that the different they barely know and spur-of-the has more than 1 billion users thing ever.” “i don’t see teenagers leaving types of content flowing through moment friend requests. has it around the world. Of these, 618 Few people share that senti-in droves,” boyd says. “i just don’t people’s News Feeds‚ links, ads, all become too much of a chore? million sign in every day. ment these days. ian bogost, pro-see it being their site of passion.” photos, status updates, things are the important life events of indeed, Fernandez hasn’t fessor at the Georgia institute of in early March, Facebook un-people “liked” or commented on‚ your closest loved ones drowning abandoned Facebook. Though Technology, recently listed email veiled a big redesign to address were “making it difficult to focus in a sea of banana slicer jokes? the Traverse city, Mich., high alongside “blood, frogs, lice, flies, some of its users’ most pressing on any one thing,” she says. “it 
“when i first got Facebook i school senior doesn’t look at her pestilence, boils, hail, locusts, gripes. The retooling, which is might have even been discour­literally thought it was the cool-News Feed, the constant cascade darkness, death of the firstborn” already available to some people, aging them from finding new est thing to have. if you had a of posts, photos and viral videos in a Facebook post. is intended to get rid of the clutter content.” 
paid adVERTisEMENT 
“saints and visionaries con-


Spirituality 
tinue to stand out,” she said. 
cONTiNuEd FROM paGE 5 
“They have been taught the soli­

‘fire-and-brimstone’ mindset tude of the spirit and are able to of the catholic religion prior to grasp the divinity of God.” Vatican ii, she said. This self-knowledge, or the 
Though her perspective may awareness of one’s own spiritu­be considered progressive or ality, is brought about by mysti­“New age,” weaver said numer-cal experiences and the spiritual ous ancient philosophers and journey actually requires little, artists share and enforce her weaver said. views. “it’s a paradox. contemplative 
prayer is hard work. all you 
have to do is nothing,” she said. 
“Saints and 
“doing nothing is hard.” 


visionaries 
it is often difficult to take a 

continue to stand moment to reflect during the 
out. They have day. she said she believes people 
are afraid to spend time alone. 
been taught the 
if they feel they have nothing to 


solitude of the 
do they will instantly check their 


spirit and are email. 
able to grasp the “we must remain silently pres­
ent to the presence within us,” 


divinity of God.” 
weaver said. “we are capable of 

Mary Jo Weaver embracing unseen depths.” 
professor emerita This is possible through curi-
Indiana University osity of other religions. she said 
people begin ecumenical dia­

“This ‘God-as-the-protector’ logue and religions need to stop image is clearly active in the competing with each other. hebrew scriptures, while the “we are universally called New Testament focuses on the to holiness. we must begin by reality and urgency of manifest-thinking of god in dynamic ing God’s kingdom,” she said. terms; moving, changing. … 
The plurality of her belief is The holy spirit is the energy of centered on unconditional love, that movement. we must believe weaver said. in the sureness that god has faith 
“God will show you the beau-in the human existence” ty of your own self,” she said. weaver said if people can see Contact Rebecca O’Neil at beauty, they are capable of love.. roneil01@saintmarys.edu 







Atlanta teachers falsify test scores 
Associated Press 
aTlaNTa — when beverly hall first arrived in atlanta as superintendent of the city’s public school system, she cau­tioned she wouldn’t be rid­ing in on a white horse and that it would take time to fix the problems of low student performance. 
but test scores dramatically improved during her 12-year tenure in the mostly poor, ur­ban district, earning her bonus­es and accolades as the nation’s top superintendent. Now she’s fighting to clear her name after she and nearly three dozen sub­ordinates were indicted in what prosecutors say was a broad conspiracy to achieve those re­sults by cheating. 
“her legacy is gone, it’s de­stroyed,” said Jerome harris, hall’s friend and former boss when the two worked togeth­er in brooklyn, N.y. “The job, they’ve taken that away, but that’s not important. she’s not looking for a job. she’s fighting for her name.” 
Tuesday was the deadline for hall and the other 34 educators indicted last week to surrender to authorities. hall arrived at the Fulton county jail about 
7:30 p.m., and her attorney, J. Tom Morgan‚ a former dekalb county district attorney‚ said he planned to have her out of jail before the end of the night. 
Other educators turned themselves in throughout the day. harris, who has known hall for three decades, was out­side the jail Tuesday among a group criticizing the high bond amounts for the indicted teach­ers, principals, administrators and other employees. hall’s bond was initially recommend­ed at $7.5 million, though it was later set at $200,000, the Fulton county sheriff’s Office said in a news release. 
harris recalled asking hall to take over as principal of a troubled elementary school in brooklyn. she cried, he said, because she didn’t want to leave her beloved students at the magnet school where she had been assigned at the time. 
“people don’t have integ­rity like that,” said harris, who was then superintendent of brooklyn community school district 13. “i honestly be­lieve dr. hall wouldn’t tolerate cheating. she has that integrity. she wouldn’t tolerate it.” 
hall garnered a reputation as a fixer who could turn things around. after beginning her career as a classroom teacher in brooklyn in 1970, hall worked her way up to the No. 2 position in the New york city schools system. 

in 1995, hall was called in to take over as superintendent of the Newark, N.J., school dis­trict, which had been seized by the state because of low test scores, questionable spend­ing practices and high dropout rates. 
almost immediately, she set about cleaning up school buildings, even declaring a health and safety emergency to speed up repairs in time for fall classes. 
she criticized the old school board for losing its way and making it difficult for educa­tors to concentrate on what was important‚ something hall’s supporters say happened to her 
paid adVERTisEMENT 


years later in atlanta. 
“somewhere along the way, this system focused more on the adults than on the children,” hall said in september 1995, during her time in Newark. 
in Newark, hall made chang­es that drew the ire of some employees and others in the community. within a year, nearly a quarter of the district’s 82 schools had new principals and hundreds of workers were laid off, including custodians, bus drivers and cafeteria work­ers. hall said the cuts were designed to free up money for more teachers and funding for full-day kindergarten, but crit­ics complained she should have sought more input before mak­ing the decisions. 
it was her work raising stu­dent attendance and modest test gains in Newark that made her an attractive candidate for atlanta, and she was hired in 1999. From the beginning, her salary included a big financial incentive‚ 30 percent of her an­nual salary‚ for meeting cer­tain performance objectives that included test scores and attendance. 
her contract was renewed a few years later, and hall was credited with making sweeping changes to the system’s aca­demic and business operations. 
in recent years, however, her achievements crumbled. a state audit suggested tests were altered, and then-Gov. sonny perdue said “any reasonable person can see that cheating occurred and children were harmed.” detractors criticized her use of a driver who shuttled her around the district, while others said she was unap­proachable and ignored cheat­ing allegations. 
district officials challenged the audit and defended the dis­trict’s dramatic turnaround, saying there was no concrete evidence of cheating. 
“There is a wanting to believe sometimes that poor minor­ity children cannot achieve at high levels,” hall told reporters at the time. “when you begin to see the kind of change we’ve seen in atlanta public schools, you have to constantly prove the progress is real.” 
Further investigations re­vealed more anomalies in test scores, and calls for hall’s res­ignation mounted. a 2011 state investigative report said ad­ministrators under pressure to maintain high scores under the federal No child left behind law created a culture of “fear, intimidation and retaliation.” hall resigned that year. 
hall has consistently denied being involved in or having knowledge of any cheating. however, after the state’s in­vestigation was made public, she said: “if i did anything that gave teachers the impression that i was unapproachable and unresponsive to their concerns, i also apologize for that.” 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Mealtime serenades 
Lesley Stevenson 
News writer 

south dining hall is well-known for a lot of things, but one of its best features often goes tragically overlooked by the typical Notre dame gastronomist. 
i’m talking, of course, about the music that sweetly serenades all who enter the hubbub of south dining hall. Famous for such hits as “baby Got back,” “don’t stop believin’” and occasionally songs from “The lion king,' south dining hall’s playl­ist never fails to set my mood for a fulfilling eating experience. 
lest i provoke the great North versus south debate, let me be clear: as a North Quad resident and an all-too-frequent par­taker of pasta stir-fry, i stand by Ndh. but sdh has the advantage for music — and it’s a big advantage. 
imagine my ecstasy when, the day “les Miserables” debuted as the sub movie, i heard the glorious sound of hugh Jackman and company belting “One day More” as i prepared my usual salad. suddenly, reach­ing for spinach became an epic battle of right and wrong, of justice and retribution. 
Or take for example the days when house of pain’s smash hit “Jump around” blasts over sdh’s speakers. The vast majority of eaters begin bouncing to the beat rather than ambivalently strolling from station to station. 
after observing the dynamic effects of what seemed to be a carefully crafted playl­ist, i decided to dig a little deeper into how sdh manages to please its wide range of patrons’ musical inclinations. The reality is pretty simple. Notre dame Food services general manager Marc poklinkowski in­formed me the lineup comes from whatev­er XM radio station the managers on duty happen to choose that day. 
“we generally like to keep it upbeat and music most students can relate to,” poklinkowski said. 
poklinkowski told me sdh’s music selec­tion garners compliments from patrons, particularly when the stations “80’s on 8” and “The pulse” are chosen. 
i’m not alone in my love for sdh music. Freshmen Jay laFave, James Elliot and i once spent a good part of lunch discussing our favorite sdh hits. 
i’m also not the only one with a par­ticular dining hall jam. Freshman paige affinito lit up when i asked her about her music preferences in sdh. 
“‘linger,’ by the cranberries,” affinito gushed. “Every time it comes on, i feel so much better.” 
From this highly informal sampling of three of my friends, i will confidently state most of the Notre dame student body greatly appreciates sdh’s efforts to make the lunch and dinner rush that much more enjoyable. at least the four of us stand by poklinkowski and south dining hall. Encore, sir. Encore. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 
here are ten daRTing tips you won’t typically get from your academic advi­sors. This advice is particularly aimed for arts and letters students, although it can be helpful for anyone registering for courses next semester. 
1) choose your professors, not your courses. Notre dame does a poor job of structuring a “curriculum.” Rather than sets of courses contributing to a holistic liberal education, Notre dame has a vari­ety of unstructured distribution require­ments. This means the quality, content and perspective of each course is almost completely determined by whoever is teaching it. an intro taught by professor X may be completely different from an intro taught by professor y. For the most part, ignore course titles. Research your professors and ask upperclassmen whom they would recommend. 
2) Take classes because your friends are taking them. The university is sup­posed to be an intellectual community. we talk about the “intellectual” part and the “community” part, but we often have a hard time discovering where they intersect. at the very least, your friend­ships at Notre dame can gain a lot of depth by shared intellectual pursuits. by working on papers, discussing lectures and preparing for exams together, you can become intellectually closer to your friends. There are also a variety of “prac­tical” advantages to taking courses with your friends. Friends can help you under­stand the course material. They can take notes for you if you miss a class. They 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

can remind you about deadlines and due dates, among other things. 
3) Take an “opening” course every semester. Each semester, take a course in a discipline, area, field or art you haven’t pursued before. This will enable you to constantly be looking at the world from new perspectives. it will “open up” your mind, and it may also help you look at your own major in a new light. it may even make you realize you need to change your major altogether. 
4) Fake the major. if you want to take a class that is restricted to students in a particular major (or minor), just declare the major. it’s pretty easy to drop it later. 
5) Max out and drop. at some universities, classes begin before regis­tration. students can “sample” different classes and then register for the ones they are most attracted to. unfortunately, we don’t do this at Notre dame, but there is a way you can make this work. The last date to drop a class is weeks after classes begin. so register for as many classes you can, go to the first few weeks of classes, and then drop the classes you don’t like. 
6) stick to 12. arts and letters students usually suffer from course overdosing. They want to take as many classes as possible, and they end up with five three-credit courses. Then they usually only do the work for four of those courses. My advice: Only take classes you can do all the reading for. For most students, this means taking 12 credits. if you re­ally want to take more courses, you can always just ask professors to “sit in” on a course. i’ve found, for the big lecture courses, asking isn’t really necessary. 
7) ask and you shall receive (as long as you ask someone else). Notre dame is increasingly becoming a bureaucratic machine. some complain this means it’s hard to get anything done. For me, this means you can do whatever you want. because Notre dame has so many deans, assistant deans, advisors and assistants, if you’re trying to get permission to take a class or to get an overload or an exemp­tion, you can just go around asking differ­ent people until you get the approval. i’ve done this multiple times. don’t feel guilty if you do this. because the machine is so big, rarely do its parts know what is best for you as an individual. if you’re looking for advice, go to a professor that you know well, not the administrative bureaucracy. 
8) don’t write a senior thesis. at the beginning of the year, i listened to many seniors list off their noble reasons for writing a thesis. Now, the majority of these students are regretting the deci­sion to write one. contrary to the rhetoric thrown around by some administrators, i’ve discovered most graduate programs don’t care whether you’ve written a the­sis, and no graduate program will ever read it in its entirety. if you don’t have to do it, just don’t. 
9) if you have any questions, ask an up­perclassman or a professor you trust. Feel free to send me an email! 
10) For information about construct­ing a catholic liberal arts education, visit obc.nd.edu and click “course consulting.” 
Christopher Damian is a senior studying philosophy. He can be contacted at cdamian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“Real love is a permanently self-enlarging experience.” 
M. Scott Peck American psychiatrist & author 



ThE ObsERVER | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2013 | NdsMcObsERVER.cOM 
Sex and alcohol: Recipe for disaster 
Amanda Pena 
The bubble 

Our generation has redefined the limits of partying by engaging prema­turely in the excessive binge-drinking and sexual activity of the college at­mosphere. because it is seen as “the norm” to drink heavily and have ran­dom hookups, other students, friends and peers may find themselves on op­posite sides of the fence when it comes to issues of sexual assault and rape. 
“The Notre dame security police department is investigating a report… of forcible fondling…” we all know those emails. Many of us dismiss them once they reach our inboxes. some even crack a few jokes about how ridiculous “forcible fondling” sounds. but behind every email we receive from Ndsp regarding sexual assault, there is a victim and an as­sailant walking around campus with us. you’ve probably brushed by a rape survivor when you went looking for your friends in the dining hall. sexual assault and rape are incredibly sensi­tive and often controversial issues that spur fiery debates about who is at fault in these situations. 
Take the recent convictions of Trent Mays and Ma’lik Richmond, the two young men found guilty of 
Conor Durkin 
Out of Right Field 

when it comes to our public sphere, i’ve always tried to be an optimist. but looking at what’s going on today, i think the time for optimism is just about over. it’s time for outrage. 
it’s been almost five months since the election and almost 27 months since the bowles-simpson commission re­leased its debt reduction plan, yet our government still hasn’t gotten its act together on the national debt. we tried to use a “supercommittee” to outline a plan — and it failed. we tried to impose a “fiscal cliff” — and we came right up to the edge of it, before kicking it down the road a little further. we tried the threat of a sequester — and instead of avoiding what most everyone thought of as arbitrary and ill-advised cuts, we actually had the sequester take effect. Two weeks ago, the senate and house signed off on yet another continuing resolution for the federal budget, as we have failed — yet again — to agree to any budget outlining future federal spending. 
and take a look at the solutions poli­ticians have put forward to solve the problem, like congressman paul Ryan’s most recent budget. Ryan has previ­ously stated he doesn’t want to change Medicare for anyone over 55, and his raping a 16-year-old peer at a party in steubenville, Ohio. The victim’s ine­briated state prevented her from con­senting to any sexual activities that were performed on her by Mays and Richmond, but supporters of the high school football stars were quick to suggest she “put herself in a position to be violated.” This tends to be the common argument against victims, especially women, of sexual assault. but all too often, defendants and their supporters make this claim, which can prompt victims to blame themselves for the assault and succumb to feel­ings of shame, embarrassment, de­pression and trauma. 
before i proceed, i am not claiming men aren’t, or haven’t been, victims of sexual assault and rape, because those cases deserve the same attention and importance as any other. however, it is a more common situation for wom­en to be in, thus making it easier to explain my opinions on the matter. 
at Notre dame, i have overheard guys complain the women here claim they were “raped” or “sexually assault­ed” because of their catholic con­sciences, and instead of dealing with their regret, they rectify the situation by reporting it as a crime. Many also believe it is the victim’s fault for put­ting themselves in that situation be­cause of how they dress, their level of intoxication or that they have a history of physical intimacy with the assailant or others. but how a person dresses cannot be taken as an invitation for sexual activity. intoxication does not, and by definition cannot, give permis­sion for engaging in sexual behaviors. 

yes, it is difficult to grapple with the idea that a person’s ensemble is not always suggestive of their intentions, but it’s true! For starters, clothes for women nowadays are made shorter and skimpier — i challenge you to find a trendy pair of shorts that are longer than the length of your finger­tips by your sides. Most shirts are now designed to be sheerer and shorter in the front and longer in the back. and unless you would like to see a girl dressed in knee-length skirts and cardigans from the “Misses” section of a department store, it is nearly impos­sible to find clothing that is suitable to go out in on the weekend that doesn’t suggest going to visit your grand­mother the next day. and if that isn’t reason enough, sometimes the way a girl dresses is merely a confidence-booster. women want to feel beautiful or sexy about themselves, and if they have found confidence in a skirt and heels, then more power to them! but that caNNOT be taken as an open invitation for sex unless she soberly consents to it. 
It’s time for outrage 
most recent budget plan also had a stat­ed goal of balancing within a decade — an admirable achievement.  in order to meet both goals, however, he had to cut discretionary funding to unprecedent­ed levels, leaving non-defense discre­tionary spending in 2023 at its lowest level in the past five decades. These sort of cuts would hinder our government’s ability to invest in research, technol­ogy, education or infrastructure — the sort of spending that leaves us better off in the long-run.  doesn’t it seem counterproductive to solve our long­term public debt problem by creating a long-term public investment problem? 
congressman Ryan’s efforts at out­lining a path forward are admirable, but the specifics of his approach need work.  according to a study from the urban institute last month, the federal government currently spends $7 on the elderly for every $1 it spends on young people. That spending on the elderly, by and large, comes through entitle­ment spending, and the notion that we should leave those $7 untouched for 10 years while targeting all of our cuts in that $1 is troubling. That’s protecting today’s generation at the expense of to­morrow’s, and we shouldn’t stand for it. 
so, where does this leave us? Trapped, in a troubling equilibrium where we preserve entitlement spend­ing and must choose between ignor­ing the threat of the national debt or making deep cuts to spending in programs geared towards investing in our future. why is this happening? well, one reason is older generations have no problem getting representa­tion in washington. The aaRp is one of the most powerful lobbying groups in america, and the elderly vote in very reliable numbers. we don’t have that luxury, which is why it’s even more im­portant for us to begin to speak up. 

simply put, young people are the ones who stand to be hurt the most by washington’s dysfunction, and it’s time for us to do something about it and have a stake in solving the national debt crisis. Getting involved in efforts like The can kicks back campaign, a non-partisan, millennial-driven grass­roots organization pushing for a com­prehensive debt solution, is a way to do just that. The can kicks back is work­ing to raise awareness among students and young adults about the enormous threat our debt poses — and we should listen. 
The national debt, which stands at more than $16 trillion, represents the amount our government has borrowed and has to pay back. who will end up paying those bills? you guessed it: you and me and everyone else in tomor­row’s work force. higher deficits force future generations to pay for today’s consumption. Moreover, the uncer­tainty generated by our debt — and, 
sexual assault and rape are grave crimes committed both on and off our campus, and our community needs increased levels of awareness, resources and support for our Notre dame family members. The university needs to react more quickly to re­ported cases of assault and rape be­cause the trauma a victim experiences affects them faster than a five-day follow-up on a claim. 
a friend of mine had left Notre dame after being raped at a party. More students are speaking up about their stories involving rape and sexual assault on irishbreakingthesilence. wordpress.com. These issues are raw, explicit and traumatizing. They take away a part of their victims and force them to move on with their lives. 
drinking and sex will always be a part of the college environment, but i encourage you to be vigilant, smart and protective over yourself and those you care about to prevent finding out how destructive these crimes are firsthand.  
Amanda Pena is a sophomore sus­tainable development studies major with a poverty studies minor. She can be contacted at apena4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
more broadly, by our government’s co­lossal level of dysfunction — is weigh­ing on our economy and hindering our economic growth, which leaves us worse-off in the job market. The need to pay our debt means our taxes will likely go up in the future, which will further hurt our economic prospects. and a failure to reform our entitle­ments — which are expected to drive much of the growth in our national debt — will force us to spend a lot less on other parts of the budget, leading to a crowding out effect that will really hurt us. 
it’s easy to do nothing — to look at congress and just shake your head 
— but that won’t change the fact that today’s problems will leave us worse off tomorrow. it’s time for our government to represent the needs of the next gen­eration. call your representatives, and tell them it’s time for the dysfunction to stop. Get involved with campaigns like The can kicks back, and take ac­tion to send a message to washington. 
The time for indifference has passed. it’s time for outrage, and it’s time for action. 
Conor Durkin is a junior studying eco­nomics and political science. He can be reached at cdurkin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ThE ObsERVER | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2013 | NdsMcObsERVER.cOM 


The comments for the most part remind me how  trying to come up with something original to post  
Maddie Daly  caring and responsible students here are. several  about ourselves. The entire campus was buzzing  
scene Editor  comments include help lines and groups on campus  about it the next day, and in every one of my classes  
that address whatever problem was confessed. i am  i overheard conversations repeating posted confes  

proud of my school when i see those honest, heart sions. whoever you are, Nd confessions, you are 
all right, Notre dame. This is about to get person breaking posts with hundreds of likes and com arguably one of the most famous figures on this al. because of the new Facebook and Twitter pages, ments showing genuine support and concern. campus, at least for now. if only we knew who you i can’t go a single hour without hearing someone On the complete other end of the spectrum you were. laughing over the most recent post or trying to guess have the ridiculous and almost unbelievable posts coincidentally, i am nearly finished with the sixth who confession #346 is. Our campus has been taken about dirty, ridiculous, crazy, embarrassing and season of “Gossip Girl,” a show with several paral over by “Nd confessions,” a social media outlet for mostly hilarious things that happen to people here. lels to the phenomenon happening here on cam all those dirty little secrets we are too embarrassed There is basically no filter when it comes to what pus concerning social media. The characters on the to ever say out loud, much less attach our names to. gets posted on this page. in my opinion, it’s a judge show have placed all their trust and focus on this one we have allowed this website to take over our con free zone where we can get everything off our chests site, Gossip Girl, which posts anonymous comments versations and reveal things about each other we without anyone ever knowing it was us. Go ahead, about the popular kids of the upper East side, some probably never needed to know. The site exploded post it. No one will ever know it was you, and you of which are true and some of which are completely last week, getting more than 9,000 messages and get that feeling of satisfaction when you hear people made up. Most of the posts are negative, degrading only being able to post less than 400   because of laughing at your post (well, as long as you are ready and pure rumors, but they all have the capability to the lack of time, i’m assuming. i mean, whoever you to laugh at yourself for whatever you did). destroy the lives of their subjects. are running this page, you have dug yourself into a however, the comments have proven otherwise. This show and the hype surrounding Nd very deep hole. This is a full time job, and the en scathing remarks have been made about some of confessions demonstrate just how powerful so tire campus is watching you. it’s like our very own the posts.  in my opinion these remarks are com cial media can be. clearly the series is exaggerated Gossip Girl. am i the only one who wants to know pletely undeserved. we all mess up and do stupid and overdramatic, but the same theme remains: who’s behind it all? things, and the whole point of the page is to get them Our generation is so connected to the internet that 
if you’re unfamiliar with the Facebook page, it out and maybe make a few people laugh along the we will allow something as little as an anonymous works like an anonymous diary where anyone can way. Name calling is simply not necessary. and also, Facebook page to rule our conversations and con submit posts that are then weeded through and some of the comments are coming from people who sume an absurd amount of our time. what do we reposted if they make the cut. To keep everything either aren’t college students at all or from people find so intriguing about reading secrets from other completely anonymous, instead of messaging Nd who don’t even go here. seriously, we should at least people’s lives? why do we laugh at stories involving confessions through an inbox, you submit your post be able to freely express our embarrassing experi injuries, drunken mishaps and lying? i think the an to a Google drive survey. if you’re lucky, your con ences with our classmates without worrying about swer has something to do with the fact that we are fession will be juicy enough to be reposted for the outside intervention. living vicariously through this page. have you ever entirety of Facebook to see. as mentioned earlier, Now, Notre dame is not the only school that has read a post and thought to yourself, “why have i there is also a Twitter account, but it has been widely succumbed to this college fad. My friends at schools never done that?” or “Man, i wish i could get away overshadowed by the later yet more active Facebook all across the country, both public and private, have with doing that?” i’m just as guilty as the rest. i like page. with only 169 tweets and approximately 1,200 similar sites which, according to them, are “so much to pretend i do things as crazy and carefree as (some followers, @Ndconfessions cowers in compari better” than ours. i’d like to hear the criteria for “bet of) the people posting on that page, but i know that’s son to the nearly 400 posts and 3,800 subscribers to ter,” because in my head i hear “more explicit” and simply not realistic. if there is one good thing to take the Facebook account. but don’t worry, Twitter Nd “overly sexual.” in my opinion, there are some pretty away from this page, it’s to be yourself. don’t worry confessions, i still follow you. keep posting, you scandalous confessions on our page. i’m shocked about what other people think, and more impor know we can’t get enough. people get away with the shenanigans they post tantly, don’t try to be someone you’re not. and if 
Minus the april Fool’s day joke the anonymous about. That being said, i do have to wonder if some you made it onto the page, you deserve a round of Facebook master posted Monday morning, the site of them are exaggerated or even completely made applause. i’m up there with you – but which one am has been posting nonstop basically all week straight. up. some just seem too ridiculous to be true. i? That’s one secret i’ll never tell. you know you love how you decide which confessions to post is beyond whoever came up with the idea of a confessions me, xoxo… me, but there is an even mix of funny and serious page for college students, i congratulate you. The posts. On the one hand, you have students confess day the site really blew up, my friends and i stayed The views expressed in this column are those of the ing their biggest fears, hidden problems and true up half the night reading the funniest posts out loud, author and not necessarily those of The Observer. thoughts about the school and certain students. dying of laughter and craving more posts, as well as Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 

ThE ObsERVER | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2013 | NdsMcObsERVER.cOM 

guys who just had a passion for music and decided to 
By MADDIE DALY 

post it online. Graduates of Tufts university, the two have been friends since college and clearly just want to have last spring semester, every single Tuesday night, my a good time. Their videos show the two of them doing friends and i would gather around someone’s 10-inch anything, ranging from drinking in their apartment to laptop and wait for the video to be uploaded. The second taking pictures with fans to playing video games on the it was up, we would all go silent, entranced by the video couch. The fact that they are so real, like any other college before our eyes. Two guys in their early twenties take kids, makes them even more appealing. Their good looks up the screen, with unbelievable freestyle coming from don’t hurt their image, either. There is hardly a video that the mouth of the taller brunette, cal shapiro, while the doesn’t show mobs of girls (and guys) with their hands 
original background music is mixed and produced by up, screaming just to get a high-five from cal or Rez. 
Rob “Rez” Resnick. The result: complete musical genius Timeflies performs original songs as well as cov­
wrapped up in this duo otherwise known as “Timeflies.” ers. however, even their covers have original elements, 
and the best part is, we all have the chance to see them including freestyle rap and original beats. The most 
live tonight at st. Mary’s college for the annual Tostal impressive videos of cal are those in which he draws a close second favorite of mine right below “under the concert, presented by the student activities board (sab). random words out of hats and fits them perfectly into his sea” is their Taylor swift-themed video. after getting a starting in the spring of 2011, the guys started post-own verses of each song. i am amazed as he glances at new Taylor guitar, Rez and cal decided to create a mash­ing these weekly Timeflies Tuesday videos, building an the word, then rhymes it with a line just a few seconds up of all of swift’s most popular songs. using an acoustic enormous virtual audience with views reaching higher later. in interviews, he says while rapping he has to com-version of “we are Never Ever Getting back Together” than half a million. Fame was never the goal for these pletely clear his mind and just be in the moment, not to for the base layer, cal sings lyrics from several different 
mention he is usually holding a bottle of scotch in one songs, including “both of us” and “you belong with Me.” hand, which helps the words flow. Their first album, The result is a chilled-out version of the pop songs, argu­appropriately titled “The scotch Tape,” features 11 ir-ably better than Taylor’s original tracks (coming from a T. resistible original songs and is available on iTunes. My swift fan, that’s saying something). favorite tracks, however, are the ones featured in their if you haven’t already heard of them, now’s the time weekly youTube videos. with remixed versions of both to youTube “Timeflies” and start listening to their origi­classic and top 40 songs, the duo has created quite the nal songs before tonight’s concert. Grab your tickets by party playlist. One of their most popular songs is “under calling the Moreau center box Office at (574) 284-4626 — the sea,” a mix-up of the beloved disney song with a that is, if there are any left. The doors open at 7 p.m. i’ll be Jamaican steel drum played by Rez in the background. the one camped out in front of O’laughlin Theater, ready The fact that they even came up with the idea to add rap to storm in and snag my front row seats. see you there! to a song from ariel proves their creativity. Their ideas are all original and never-ending. Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly2@nd.edu 
scene Editor 




STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Secure our amateur athletes 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
i had the good fortune of turn­ing on sunday’s louisville-duke game about five seconds after cbs stopped showing cardinals sophomore kevin ware’s hor­rific leg injury, which i’ve heard enough about over the past two days to picture most of the grue­some details. 
i haven’t yet seen the replay, as both cbs and EspN decided it was too graphic for TV. but at this point, based on the advice of my friends who did watch, you couldn’t pay me to watch it. 
The surreal spectacle of the injury — ware’s exposed bone, teammates fainting and vomit­ing, even the possibly soulless coach Rick pitino shedding a tear — was a tragic scene played out in front of nearly 35,000 in attendance. but it also served as a reminder of the risks college athletes take on every time they compete. 
certainly, injuries are a risk to athletes everywhere, regardless of the venue or the stakes. but when tens of thousands have paid big bucks to see these ath­letes play, something changes. March Madness has become such a grand event that the big games have been moved to el­evated fields in the middle of football stadiums (a factor, by the way, that some believe may have contributed to ware’s freak injury). 
college football is an even bigger enterprise, with televi­sion contracts and ticket sales in the hundreds of millions, all made off players in a sport that’s proven to have long-term health issues. Furthermore, merchandise money is made off of players’ likenesses in video games and jersey sales — all under the moronic notion that says heisman winner Johnny Manziel had nothing to do with record sales for Texas a&M No. 2 gear this year. Manziel has at­tempted to capture some of the money being made off his name by trademarking the phrase “Johnny Football,” but he can’t collect on that until he leaves the college ranks. 
The money factor is a small push for players to leave college athletics early, but the threat of a career-ending injury is an overwhelming shove. One only needs to look at south carolina running back Marcus lattimore, who suffered a similarly cringe-worthy knee injury this season. lattimore is readying himself for a comeback, but uncertainty about his recovery has cost him a top pick in this year’s draft and a corresponding contract worth millions of dollars for him and his family. 
The Ncaa has decried athletes who leave school early and has passed policies to keep them in school — and making money for their colleges — as long as possible. but with the incentives they’ve left on the table, it’s hard to argue with “student-athletes” who choose to forgo their four-year degrees in favor of finan­cial security for them and their families. 
The Ncaa’s amateur system could be under its biggest threat ever though, as a group of former athletes has sued the Ncaa for using its members’ likenesses in Ea sports video games. The trial won’t take place for an­other 14 months, though, and there’s still the strong possibility it will fail, just like every other attempt to provide additional compensation for athletes. but if it succeeds, it could shake the structure of college athletics to its core. 
That system may be safe for now, but the tide against the Ncaa and its $4 billion annual athletic revenues is stronger than ever. i believe in amateur ath­letics and the value of a college degree, but the Ncaa is no lon­ger a mom-and-pop operation, and asking players to risk their futures “for love of the game” might not be enough to keep them around anymore. 
kevin ware is no Marcus lattimore. he’s a role player on an elite team, a guy who would be a longshot to ever make an Nba roster. but he broke his leg 
— and possibly his dreams at a future in basketball — helping louisville make it to the Final Four. That achievement will be worth tens of millions to his university, but, as it stands now, ware has a better chance of sell­ing used cars in five years than ever seeing a cent of that money. 
if he had just a tiny percentage of that set away in a fund that could only be accessed after his graduation, he could potentially be compensated for the risks and costs of such an injury. but the Ncaa and its members make a killing on these athletes, some­thing that allows them to operate athletics as we know them today. so until a law for paying athletes is penned in black and white, the Ncaa will continue to take ad­vantage of the gray. 
so, no, you still couldn’t pay me to watch kevin ware mangle his leg in front of his teammates, his coach, 30,000 paying fans and millions more watching on television. 
but maybe you could pay him. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
wichita st. succeeds with a marginal budget 
Associated Press 

The entire basketball pro­gram at wichita state runs on what louisville coach Rick pitino makes in a single year, with money left over to pur­chase plenty of trophy cases for Final Four hardware. 
in an Ncaa tournament driven by longshots and upsets, the shockers are in many ways the oddball of the season’s fi­nal weekend: They don’t have a big-time football program like syracuse, Michigan or the cardinals, and they don’t be­long to a major conference that 
enjoys  a  weighty  television  
contract.  
instead,  the  shockers  run  

their basketball program on a budget of just $3.1 million, which accounts for everything from coach Gregg Marshall’s salary to a robust recruiting budget, all of the transportation to road games and everything else that comes with playing division i sports. 
pitino, by comparison, makes $3.9 million in base salary alone. 
but the fiscal disparity be­tween the three big schools and a mid-major like wichita state will hardly matter when the ball is tossed up saturday night in the Georgia dome, and the shockers take on the cardinals for the right to play for the na­tional championship. 
Everything is equal when the teams step on the hardwood. 
“Our administration gives us wonderful support,” Marshall said this week. “we fly on pri­vate planes every time we leave town. we have 10,500 fans at every game. it’s a great place to coach.” 
That’s why Marshall has re­buffed every overture to leave. 
The calls will undoubtedly pick up given what the shockers have done this year, but the longtime coach of winthrop has said repeatedly that it would take the perfect opportunity to pry him away. 
For one thing, he has it pretty good at wichita state. 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or as­sistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd .edu 

The school’s robust aerospace engineering program, along with the National institute for aviation Research right on cam­pus, means Marshall has plenty of private planes at his disposal 
— no flying in coach for this mid-major team. and that extends to recruiting, where Marshall’s able to cover more ground than most coaches by dictating when and where the wheels go up. 
“That is a great benefit,” he said. “Our players don’t under­stand how good they have it, to go from bus to private plane to bus and in a couple hours be in our hotel.” 
Then there’s the fact that the shockers no longer have a foot­ball team — it was disbanded in the mid-1980s. The money that the Missouri Valley school once funneled into a losing pro­gram has, for the better part of 30 years, been directed toward the more successful basketball team. 
it’s also one of the reasons the school has been able to reward Marshall handsomely. 
The coach signed a seven-year extension in 2011 that pushed his base salary to $900,000 and his total compensation to more than $1 million a year.and while it’s far short of what pitino is making at louisville, Marshall has a chance to bolster his bank account with a number of in­centives. he’s already earned an additional $380,000 for making the Final Four, and can pick up another $36,000 by making the title game and $200,000 for win­ning the school’s first national title. 
so far, the shockers have been as good as anybody. 
They’ve already won a school-record 30 games, and reached their first Final Four since the 1965 season. along the way, the shockers roughed up pittsburgh, upset top-seeded Gonzaga, beat up la salle and then knocked off second-seed­ed Ohio state — another big-budget school — in the regional finals. 
They’ve proven that a 6-foot-8 forward is just as tall at wichita state as anywhere else, and a point guard who shoots 40 per­cent from beyond the 3-point line can do it regardless of the setting. 
“are there financial benefits to making the Final Four? sure, we can go into that ad nau­seam,” wichita state athletic director Eric sexton told The associated press in a phone in­terview. “but what this really represents is a great chance for our school to be seen on a na­tional stage.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“People have always doubted We just want to win. That’s whether I was good enough to play the bottom line. I think a lot of this game at this level. I thought I times people may become con-was, and I thought I could be. What tent with one championship or other people thought was really al-a little bit of success, but we ways irrelevant to me.” -Steve Nash don’t really reflect on what we’ve 
done in the past. -Derek Jeter People started saying, ‘Oh you know, he’s quicker than he looks’, “This is what I believe. Your hab­and I’m like, ‘What does that mean? its create who you are. If you’re Do I look slow, or I’m not really sure not willing to change your habits, what that means. People need to you aren’t going to change as a look at me equally.” -Jeremy Lin person.” -Herm Edwards 


MLB 

Gonzalez, Tulowitzki power colorado 
Associated Press 
MilwaukEE — carlos Gonzalez is happy to see Troy Tulowitzki back in the colorado Rockies’ lineup. 
Gonzalez homered for the second straight game and drove in two runs to lead the Rockies over the Milwaukee brewers 8-4 Tuesday night, giving walt weiss his first win as a major league manager. 
Tulowitzki also homered for the second straight game and drove in two runs, giving him four Rbis for the season. 
Tulowitzki is off to a quick start after missing the last four months of the 2012 sea­son with an injured left groin that required surgery. The all-star shortstop went 2 for 5 with a homer and two Rbis in Monday’s loss on opening day. 
“it’s great to have him out there,” Gonzalez said. “any team would want him on their side. he is one of those play­ers that can win games all by himself.” 
weiss, who posted his first victory, a year after man­aging his son’s high school team, had a lot of praise for Tulowitzki and Gonzalez after the game. 
“Tulowitzki looks great,” weiss said. “having him and carlos in the three and four hole is very nice. Those two guys are going to have to be the ones if we are going to make a push this year.” 
Gonzalez said he is see­ing the ball well early in the season. 
“i am not trying to hit home runs, but when pitchers make mistakes in this league, you have to make them pay,” he said. “so far, i feel really good at the plate and it is paying off.” 
while the home runs were important, both weiss and Gonzalez talked about the importance of the Rockies’ three-run seventh inning that features four singles, a walk and a sacrifice fly. 
“we really had some good at-bats tonight,” weiss said. “we did a little bit of every­thing out there. i know that if the game is close, our offense will do something.” 
Edgmer Escalona (1-0) pitched 1 2-3 innings of score­less relief for the victory. 
Jorge de la Rosa started for colorado and pitched 4 1-3 in­nings, giving up four runs and five hits. Rafael betancourt got the last out to record his first save. 
Marco Estrada started and went five innings for Milwaukee. he gave up four runs and nine hits and struck out eight. 
Tulowitzki hit a solo homer in the third to make it 2-all. Gonzalez’s two-run homer in the fifth tied it at 4. 
The Rockies broke it open in the seventh off brewers re­lievers Michael Gonzalez (0-1) and burke badenhop. 
dexter Fowler had a leadoff walk, Josh Rutledge bunted for a hit and Gonzalez singled to load the base. Tulowitzki’s sacrifice fly put colorado ahead, and Michael cuddyer 
and Todd  helton added Rbi  
singles.  
brewers  manager  Ron  
Roenicke  was  disappointed  

about the seventh inning. 
“what do you do about an inning like that?” he said. “That’s weird. you don’t see too many innings that could go bad with really pretty good pitches. a bunt that maybe we should make a play on. The broken bat, i don’t know what you do about that thing. it just didn’t go well.” 
Roenicke said Estrada struggled with his command. 
“his off-speed pitches, which he usually can get com­mand of as the game goes along, he didn’t get command of,” he said. 
paid adVERTisEMENT 





ThE ObsERVER | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2013 | NdsMcObsERVER.cOM 
NBA 

Anthony scores 50 to defeat depleted Heat 
Associated Press 
MiaMi — carmelo anthony released his final shot of the night then skipped backward, already knowing the outcome. 
The shot was good. 
For anthony and the New york knicks, the outcome was even better. 
Relying entirely on jump­ers, anthony tied his career high with 50 points and the knicks won their ninth straight game, topping the injury-de­pleted Miami heat 102-90 on wednesday night. 
“i felt good tonight,” anthony said. 
There was no arguing that. 
anthony finished 18 of 26 from the field, taking two drib­bles to free himself from shane battier and make his last shot with 16.9 seconds remaining to get to 50 and send the knicks’ bench into hysterics. it was the third time he scored 50 in his career, and it came with Miami’s lebron James, dwyane wade and Mario chalmers all sidelined by injuries. 
“i think just from the start of the game, it’s a feeling that you just have while you’re out there on the court,” anthony said. “sometimes you get off to a good start and then you get cold the rest of the game, but to­night wasn’t one of those cases.” No, it was not. 
he made his first seven shots, and the fact that he had 37 points before notching any other sta­tistic of note — no rebounds, assists, steals or blocked shots until the third quarter — let everyone in the building know that he was all about a scoring spree. 
and the heat had no answers. 
“it’s an inopportune time to announce my candidacy for defensive player of the year,” battier said. “carmelo had a hell of a game. ... That’s a game that drives the analytics guys crazy because he didn’t attempt a shot within 15 feet of the basket. Most nights, we’ll take that ev­ery single time. and he made a ton of shots. Made a ton of shots. and that’s to his credit.” 
J.R. smith scored 14 and Raymond Felton added 10 for New york. 
chris bosh scored 23 points for Miami, which beat san antonio on sunday without James, wade and chalmers, but managed only 32 second-half points against the knicks. Mike Miller scored 18, Ray allen fin­ished with 16 and Norris cole had 14 for the heat, whose 17­game home winning streak was snapped. 
The knicks beat the heat in three of their four regular-season matchups. They likely would not meet again before the Eastern conference finals. 
“i don’t think that team will lack confidence against anybody,” heat coach Erik spoelstra said. “That’s just the nature of who they are.” 
Miami’s magic number for clinching home-court through­out the Nba playoffs remained at five, and the heat already have the No. 1 spot in the Eastern conference wrapped up. The knicks now lead brooklyn by five games in the race for the atlantic division title. 
it was only Miami’s second loss in its last 31 games. 
Much of the star power was taken out of the equation more than eight hours before game time, when the heat an­nounced that James, wade and chalmers would not play. James has a sore hamstring, and wade 
paid adVERTisEMENT 

and chalmers are dealing with ankle sprains. 
all are listed as day-to-day. 
“The No. 1 thing, obviously, is try to get as healthy as we can,” spoelstra said. “Obviously, that’s a priority. From there, we have time to still try to improve 
— not just stay in rhythm, but to improve, and also get these guys an opportunity that haven’t been getting minutes to play in these meaningful minutes. we didn’t script san antonio or this like this to happen, but that’s what this league is about. it’s unpredictable.” 
anthony surely did not mind their absences. 
he made three shots, a com­bined 65 feet of swished jump­ers, in the game’s first 2:17 as the knicks ran out to an 8-0 lead. plenty of blue-and-or­ange shirts in the Miami crowd roared, and the early indica­tions were that anthony was on his way to a monster night and the knicks were on their way to a blowout victory. 
That assessment was half-right. 
“unbelievable,” knicks coach Mike woodson said. “he just re­fused to let us lose.” 
anthony came in averaging 

27.5 points and was practically there by halftime with 27 on 9-for-12 shooting — a display the knicks absolutely needed, since Miami more than held its own without James, wade and chalmers. 
after trailing by as many as nine early, Miami actually roared back to lead 58-50 at the half. Miller and cole combined for 30 at the break; Miller’s 18 were five more than he had scored in any game this season. 
anthony — who had one more field goal than every other knick managed, combined, in the first 24 minutes — didn’t exactly cool off at halftime. by the time the third quarter was 4 minutes old, anthony was up to 37 points. 
“we actually played pretty good defense on him,” Miller said. 
anthony’s first rebound came with 7:02 left in the third, and his first assist came as the clock was expiring to end the period, setting up steve Novak for a 3-pointer from the right corner that allowed New york to take a 78-76 lead into the final 12 minutes. 



NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Rutgers responds to incriminating Rice video 
last fall and agreed with 
Associated Press 
the punishment. 

NEwaRk, N.J. — Rutgers phone messages left for said it would reconsider its Rice by the ap were not im­decision to retain basket-mediately returned. ball coach Mike Rice after but EspN’s broadcast a videotape aired showing prompted an outcry, led by him shoving, grabbing and the governor himself. throwing balls at players “Governor christie saw during practice and yelling the video today for the gay slurs at them. first time and he is obvi-
The videotape, broadcast ously deeply disturbed Tuesday on EspN, prompt-by the conduct displayed ed scores of outraged social and strongly condemns media comments as well as this behavior,” spokesman sharp criticism from Gov. Michael drewniak said. chris christie and Nba star “it’s not the type of leader­lebron James. The head of ship we should be showing the New Jersey assembly our young people and clear-called for Rice to be fired. ly there are questions about 
athletic director Tim this behavior that need to pernetti was given a copy of be answered by the leaders the video in late November at Rutgers university.” by a former employee. he The Miami heat’s James suspended Rice for three weighed in with a tweet: “if games a month later, fined my son played for Rutgers him $50,000 and ordered or a coach like that he him to attend anger man-would have some real ex­agement classes. plaining to do and i’m still 
in an interview with gone whoop on him after­wFaN Radio in New york wards! c’mon.” on Tuesday, pernetti said The video shows numer­university president Robert ous clips of Rice at prac­barchi also viewed the tape tice firing basketballs at 
paid adVERTisEMENT 


players, hitting them in the back, legs, feet and shoulders. Rice was also shown pushing players in the chest and grabbing them by their jerseys and yanking them around the court. Rice could be heard screaming obscenities and gay slurs at players. 
assembly speaker sheila Oliver (d-Essex/passaic) called Rice’s conduct “un­acceptable not only at our state university, but in all circumstances. it is offen­sive and unbecoming of our state.” 
“Mike Rice should no lon­ger be employed by Rutgers university,” Oliver said. “he must go. Meanwhile, the decision not to dismiss him last year needs a com­plete and thorough review.” 
Rice, who was hired by pernetti three years ago, is 44-51 at Rutgers, including 16-38 in the big East, after going 73-31 in three sea­sons at Robert Morris. The scarlet knights went 15-16 this season and 5-13 in the big East. 
“you have to be always cautious about public re­action, because the reac­tion the public is having is the same i had when i saw it (the film),” pernetti told the radio station. “i am factoring everything into what we do going forward. The most important thing i am factoring in is trying to make sure that we don’t do harm to Rutgers university, because we are a small slice of the pie here at this great place. i don’t want to put any negatively on the university when we have a lot of real good things go­ing on.” 
pernetti said he under­stands why many are asking why Rice wasn’t fired after the initial investigation. 
“i spent more time with that option on whether we should fire Mike or not than any other option,” he said. “at the same the results of the investigation where we ended up, the determina­tion was made to suspend him. My biggest concern as the ad is that i am always trying to protect the inter­ests and reputation of the university and that’s what makes this one so difficult. There is a lot of hindsight, 20-20, .... that there will be no other option than to ter­minate Mike. i made that decision. i am accountable for it. i have to live with it.” 
Rice was pernetti’s first major hire after getting the ad’s job. 
assemblyman Reed Gusciora (d-Mercer/ hunterdon) called Rice’s conduct indefensible, and said he should have been fired in december, after the tape was given to pernetti. 

Gusciora  also  said  
pernetti’s  decision  de­ 
serves a full review.  

“if the university does not act, i will seek to add a provision to the state bud­get defunding Mr. Rice’s salary,” Gusciora said. “Taxpayers should not be paying for this behavior.” 
pernetti said his deci­sion to only suspend Rice was made in part because the coach was remorse­ful and admitted he made mistakes. pernetti said Rice also worked hard to improve himself with the counseling. 
Rice had a reputation as being “a fiery guy with an edge” before coming to Rutgers and pernetti said the two talked about it for five hours before he was hired. 
“he convinced me he understood his reputa­tion, but he also under­stood where the line was,” pernetti said. “i made clear to him if he crossed the line he would be held account­able. in this case he did, and we held him account­able for it.” 

That might not be enough in the wake of the video made by Eric Murdock, the former Nba player who was hired by Rice to be director of player development. 
The two had a falling out over Murdock’s appearanc­es at a camp, and pernetti said Murdock’s contract was not renewed. Murdock, who said he was fired, then compiled the video, splic­ing together the practice lowlights of Rice’s first three years as coach. 

pernetti said about 60 per­cent of the incidents hap­pened in Rice’s first season. he also was upset with Rice using a certain gay slur at a university where student Tyler clementi committed suicide after a roommate used a webcam to see him kissing a man. 
“i would tell you that that word was at the core of the suspension,” pernetti said. “it absolutely concerns me. it’s not acceptable.” 

ThE ObsERVER | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2013 | NdsMcObsERVER.cOM 

ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT 

Former irish coaches pass away 

Observer Staff Report 
a pair of former irish coach­es passed away last weekend. 
legendary former irish fencing coach Michael “Mike” decicco, who led Notre dame to five national champion­ships and gave 41 years of service to the university, died Friday at the age of 85. Former Notre dame assistant foot­ball coach Mal M. Moore, who coached from 1983 to 1985 under then-head coach Gerry Faust, died saturday at the age of 73. 
decicco was the head coach for 34 years and retired in 1995 with a remarkable 680-45 (.938) career coaching record. in addition to five national titles, decicco’s teams com­piled 12 undefeated seasons and a 122-match winning streak over six seasons. 
decicco was born in 1927 in Newark, N.J., and enrolled as a freshman at Notre dame in 1945. he graduated in 1949 after fencing in the foil, sabre and epee for the irish, compil­ing a 63-20 career record. 
after graduating, decicco returned to New Jersey to work on his master’s degree. he lat­er returned to Notre dame in 1954 to finish his doctorate. Then, in 1962 after serving as an assistant coach to walter langford, decicco became the head coach of the irish. 
in 1964, decicco founded the academic advising pro­gram, the first of its kind, at the behest of then-executive vice president Fr. Edmund Joyce. 
decicco developed the women’s team into one of Notre dame’s first varsity sports for women in 1977 and coached the women’s contin­gent until 1986. 
decicco retired from coaching after the 1995 sea­son. in 2009, he received the Moose krause distinguished service award, the highest honor given by the Monogram club. 
decicco died of congestive heart failure at holy cross Village at Notre dame. he is survived by his wife, the for­mer polly Romeo, and his five children: linda, della, Nick, Michelle and Mike. 
Moore coached the irish running backs for all three of his seasons at Notre dame. he also served as the assistant head coach in his final two years. 
Moore was born in 1939 and entered the university of alabama in 1958. he played on the football squad under leg­endary coach paul w. “bear” bryant from 1958 to 1962 and earned an undergraduate de­gree in sociology. Moore then went on to serve as an assis­tant coach to bryant. 
Moore coached for 31 years, 22 of them at alabama. he lat­er served as the director of ath­letics at alabama from 1999 to 2013. Moore was a part of 10 na­tional championship football teams as a player, coach and athletic director. in 2007, the university officially dedicated the facility formerly known as The Football building as the Mal M. Moore athletic Facility. 
during his stint as director of athletics, alabama also pro­duced national titles in gym­nastics, softball and women’s golf. 
a native of dozier, ala., Moore was married to charlotte davis of Tuscaloosa for 41 years before she passed in 2010. he is survived by one daughter, heather cook of scottsdale, ariz., a grand­daughter, anna lee, and a grandson, charles cannon. 
ROWING 

Crew wins eight races 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 

The No. 14 irish continued their spring-season success in their second regatta of the season, earning eight victories in a four-team competition against iowa, Michigan and Michigan state on the Grand River in East lansing, Mich., on saturday. 
The Notre dame first var­sity eight, second varsity eight, first varsity four and novice eight all finished as double winners saturday. 
Freshman coxswain alex Techar said the irish were proud of the hard work team members put in to record a high finish at such an early point in the season. 
“Overall, the team worked really hard,” Techar said. “For some people, it was their first race of the sea­son, and for some people, it was their first race ever.” 
The irish opened the day with a victory from the nov­ice eight launch. Techar headed the irish ‘a’ crew as coxswain, and the boat fin­ished with a time of 7:26.00 to beat iowa by five seconds. 
The varsity four team posted a time of 8:03.20 to finish 15.30 seconds ahead of iowa for the win. The second varsity eight launch logged the third victory of the day with a winning time of 7:03.70, edging the hawkeyes again. 
The first varsity eight launch recorded the sec-ond-fastest time of the day for the irish, posting a time of 6:55.10 to beat iowa in a two-team race. 
The irish maintained their focus as they tran­sitioned to the afternoon races. The first novice eight launch finished with a time of 7:44.90 to defeat Michigan state in the third race of the afternoon. 
The freshmen on the first novice eight launch saw significant improvement throughout the day, Techar said. 
“The freshmen improved from the morning race to the afternoon race,” Techar said. “we took our mistakes 
and  tried  to  learn  from  
them.”  
The  irish  varsity  four  

launch earned its second victory of the day with a time of 8:14.80 in a two-boat race against Michigan state. 
The second varsity eight beat Michigan state with a time of 7:24.20, and the first varsity eight finished the day with a winning time of 7:03.10, defeating Michigan state by 19 seconds. 
Notre dame’s successful performance at the regat­ta stemmed from the hard work the team has put into strength and technical im­provements, Techar said. 
“since the last regatta, we’ve only been on the wa­ter a couple times,” Techar said. “so, we have focused on power improvements on land and took the time on the water to work on tech­nical stuff.” 
with another competition quickly approaching for the irish, the team will look to improve its ability to com­pete, Techar said. 
“The team has a lot of spirit and are willing to work hard and try and im­prove,” Techar said. 
The irish return to the water to compete against Ohio state and Michigan on saturday in columbus, Ohio. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL | sMc 5, dEFiaNcE 1; sMc 10, dEFiaNcE 2 
Belles sweep Defiance 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 

The belles earned their first sweep of the season, defeating defiance in both games of a double header Thursday. 
The belles (8-6) came into the series with a .500 record but never trailed against the yellow Jackets (7-7, 2-2 hcac). saint Mary’s won the opening game 5-1 and the second game 10-2 on a mercy rule. 
in the first game, junior pitcher callie selner scored on a double by freshman outfielder sarah callis in the second inning after a bunt by freshman first baseman Jillian busfield moved selner into scoring position. in the third in­ning, the belles used two sacrifice bunts by senior shortstop Emily sherwood and sophomore outfielder Victoria connelly to move freshman outfielder ashley watkins to third base. watkins later scored on a wild pitch. according to senior catcher and captain Morgan bedan, the belles have focused on using small ball to manufacture runs.
 “we’ve realized that it is something that could be a very important part of our game plan and it’s some­thing that we’ve worked very hard on,” bedan said. “we needed to take advan­tage of chances to score and i think our strategy has giv­en us a better opportunity to do so.” 
The belles held a 2-0 lead until the 6th inning, when defiance was able to cut the lead in half. The belles scored three more runs in the bottom of the sixth to quash any chance of a yellow Jacket rally. The belles’ confidence late in the game impressed bedan, especially considering their early season troubles. 
“we’re focusing on main­taining composure during pressure situations,” bedan said. “it’s something that we struggled with earlier in the season but also some­thing that we’ve worked very hard to improve.” 
The second game was never in doubt as saint Mary’s quickly took a 5-0 lead after batting around in the first frame. 
Freshman pitcher sarah burke allowed two runs in the fourth after starting the game with three per­fect innings. The belles never looked back, scoring five more en route to a 10-2 mercy-rule win. 
selner, who played third base in the second game, went 2-for-3 with an Rbi and three runs scored. because of her perfor­mance in the circle in the first game, she was award­ed the Miaa pitcher of the week award. bedan says the value of a player like selner can’t be overstated. 
“she’s awesome and al­ways willing to support her team. building off of her confidence has been big to our team’s success,” bedan said. “she’s very selfless and does everything for her team. she’s the kind of player that holds teams together.” 
The belles hit the road again Thursday in a game against anderson. The first pitch is scheduled for 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 



ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | Nd 6, MaRQuETTE 1 
ND rights ship against Eagles 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
after big losses to No. 8 Michigan on March 27 and No. 25 Tulsa on saturday, the No. 21 irish got back in the win column with a 6-1 victory at Marquette on Tuesday. 
Notre dame (12-7) fell behind early at home against the rival wolverines (13-4), dropping the doubles point with losses in the No. 1 and No. 2 spots. Junior Jennifer kellner and senior chrissie McGaffigan fell 8-4 to the nationally-ranked No. 2 team of sophomore Emina bektas and junior brooke bolender. Only the freshmen pair of Quinn Gleason and Julie Vrabel claimed a doubles victo­ry, winning 8-6 at third doubles. 
in singles, junior britney sanders fell 6-1, 6-1 to betkas, bringing the Michigan lead to 2-0. shortly after, kellner fell at No. 2 singles, further extending the wolverines lead. 
Gleason snatched the first point for the irish with a 6-3, 7-6, 9-7 victory at No. 3 sin­gles and sophomore Molly O’koniewski won at No. 5 sin­gles in three sets, managing a 3-6, 6-4, 4-2 victory. losses by sophomore katherine white and McGaffigan sealed the Michigan victory. 
against Tulsa (13-5), the irish were able to claim the dou­bles point with  8-6 victories from sanders and junior Julie sabacinski at No. 2 doubles and Vrabel and Gleason at No. 3 doubles. 
Notre dame extended its lead with a victory at No. 3 singles by Gleason, who sealed her match in three sets, winning 6-2, 7-6, 8-6. despite a victory by McGaffigan, losses by sanders, kellner and O’koniewski sealed the victory for the Golden hurricane. 
McGaffigan said she chalked the loss up to inexperience in outdoors competition. 
“it was difficult to play Tulsa outside with the amount of wind,” McGaffigan said. “we haven’t had the chance to prac­tice as much as we would like outside.” 
shortly after their loss, the irish hit the road for Marquette (10-10), defeating the Golden Eagles at the helfaer Tennis stadium in Milwaukee. 
“we were happy to pull out the match against Marquette,” McGaffigan said. “we were able to win multiple close matches. They have a scrappy team, which is hard to play.” 
The irish got their doubles game working early against Marquette, claiming victories in all three doubles matches to take the doubles point. 
in singles, the irish contin­ued their dominating streak, as sanders, Gleason, kellner and McGaffigan all earned victories in only two sets. O’koniewski sweated out a 6-3, 6-7, 10-6 win at No. 5 singles. Only sabacinski struggled, falling in three sets in the No. 6 spot. 
The irish will play their final home match of the regular sea­son saturday when they take on Memphis at 1 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

MEN’S TENNIS | Nd 5, ball sTaTE 2 
singles deliver victory 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 

Forced to play indoors due to frigid temperatures, the irish nevertheless defeated ball state 5-2 in Muncie, ind., on Monday. 
Notre dame (12-7) dropped the doubles point with losses in the No. 1 and No. 3 doubles matches but rebounded quickly to put the match away with five singles victories. 
“we played a good match, particularly given the cir­cumstances,” irish coach bobby bayliss said. “we had been practicing outside all week in anticipation of bet­ter weather and we got a freaking cold day in Muncie and we were forced indoors. … it was a little bit of an ad­justment, but our guys han­dled it pretty well.” 
Notre dame won the match behind the play of its top four singles play­ers, as all four players won in straight sets. sophomore wyatt Mccoy returned to ac­tion from a wrist injury and defeated cardinals junior austin smith, 6-4, 6-3, at No. 6 singles to secure the fifth point for the irish. 
“Given that they lost the doubles points, the top four guys came out and really took care of business and made it a non-match pret­ty quickly,” bayliss said. “we were really in charge from the get-go on all seven courts.” 
irish senior Michael Moore lost the only singles match for the irish in a closely con­tested two-set match. The senior dropped the first set tiebreaker, 7-5, and was un­able to overcome cardinals sophomore patrick Elliot in the second set, losing it 7-5. 
“Michael Moore did lose, but it was 7-6, 7-5, and he had opportunities,” bayliss said. “he served for the first set twice. … [he had some] bad luck, and a couple of shots here and a couple of shots there and he might have won.” 
while the irish controlled the singles matches from start to finish, the same was not true in doubles. irish freshman alex lawson and junior billy pecor took care of business at No. 2 doubles, winning 8-3. but No. 1 dou­bles and No. 3 doubles both lost their matches by one service break. 
“in the doubles, we were very sluggish at No. 1 and No. 3,” bayliss said. “i give ball state credit for com­peting well. Our guys re­ally dropped their standards that we’ve come to expect and hopefully we’ll get that back this weekend. 
“Overall, a good singles effort and a poor doubles effort.” 
after three weeks of miss­ing at least one player due to injury, the irish are back to full strength. The returns of Mccoy and irish junior Ryan bandy come at an opportune time, as Notre dame will host three separate matches this weekend. 
“Ryan bandy was a little bit iffy yesterday [against ball state], but i think he’ll be fine this weekend,” bayliss said. “wyatt Mccoy is back and he played and won in straight sets and he’s been out for about three weeks. … i anticipate being 100 per­cent and ready to go.” 
The irish will showcase their full-strength roster against sMu on Friday at 4 
p.m. at the Eck pavilion. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

ND SOFTBALL | GREEN bay 5, Nd 4 
Irish lose in final inning 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 

The irish fell 5-4 to Green bay on Thursday after the phoenix exploded for four runs in the seventh inning. 
Notre dame (22-8, 3-0 big East) travels to washington, d.c., to face the hoyas (13­20, 3-0) today in a double­header featuring the only schools still undefeated in big East play. in addition to playing for first place in their conference, the irish also have the opportunity to earn the thousandth win in program history. 
Notre dame entered the game against Green bay (7-14, 1-2 horizon league) following  seven wins dur­ing back-to-back sweeps in california and New Jersey. The irish took the lead in the bottom of the second inning when senior infield­er kathryn lux hit a ball into center field to score freshman infielder carly piccinich. Junior infielder chloe saganowich then singled to send junior out­fielder lauren stuhr home for the 2-0 lead. Freshman outfielder Megan sorlie’s sacrifice fly ball gave Notre dame a 3-0 lead to close out the inning. 
The phoenix scored one run in the top of the third, but a dive by lux stopped the momentum and ended the inning with a double play. 
Junior pitcher laura winter soared through the next three innings, string­ing nine straight outs. a run by lux in the sixth stretched the lead to 4-0 for 
“Our team has settled into a good rhythm now at the plate and our bats have become more consistent.” 
Amy Buntin 
Irish senior catcher 
the irish. 
but in the final inning, Green bay scored four runs to take a 5-4 lead. Notre dame was unable to coun­ter in the bottom half of the seventh and dropped its first game since March 14. 
in today’s games, the irish will look to continue their success against the hoyas. Notre dame holds a 4-0 all-time record against Georgetown. senior catcher amy buntin said the irish will also look to contin­ue their recent offensive success. 
“Our team has settled into a good rhythm now at the plate and our bats have become more consistent,” she said. “we’ve continued to work on our fundamen­tals and not overthinking too much in the batter’s box.” 
The hoyas are coming off a program-record, eight-game winning streak and most recently beat George Mason 5-2 on March 27 and Towson 3-2 on March 28. 
with this in mind, the irish have plenty of motiva­tion to come out of the se­ries with a win. despite the excitement, Notre dame is still focusing on the basics. 
“we have been working on game-like situations in practice, both offensively and defensively. The more we practice at game speed, the better we have become,” lux said. 
The irish and the hoyas will square off today at noon and again at 2 p.m. at Guy Mason Field in washington, d.c. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


ThE ObsERVER | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2013 | NdsMcObsERVER.cOM 

TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish impress at Stanford Invitational 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
competing against some of the best athletes in the country, the irish held their own and showed their depth this weekend at the stanford invitational in palo alto, calif., and the Oliver Nikilof Open in cincinnati. Notre dame athletes won a com­bined seven events between the two meets. 
at stanford, sophomore chris Giesting, junior patrick Feeney and senior brendan dougherty combined to dom­inate in the 400-meters, fin­ishing first, second and fifth 
respectively.  Giesting  and  
Feeney’s  times  (46.31  and  
46.38)  currently  rank  sec­ 

ond and third in the nation and Giesting was recognized as the big East Men’s Track athlete of the week for his performance. 
both the men and the wom­en excelled in the 4x400-meter relay, finishing first and sec­ond, respectively. Their times rank in the national top 15 this season. 
senior thrower Madeline casanova also had an out­standing meet, winning the discus and placing second in the hammer throw with a personal record. however, she wasn’t particularly pleased with her own effort. 
“My performance this week­end was mediocre,” casanova said. “ but it was still nice to compete in front of my friends and family, and in the sun for once.” 
The stanford invitational is known for producing impres­sive middle and long distance performances and the irish followed the trend. senior all­american Rebecca Tracy won the 800-meter in 2:05.31 and ran the third best time in the country (4.18:07) after placing second in the 1500-meter on Friday. Joining her in the top five of both events was fresh­man danielle aragon, whose 800-meter time (2:06.40) is the best in the nation by a freshman this year. Fellow freshman Molly seidel added a first-place finish in her sec­tion of the 5000-meter, in the 10th best time of the country this year. For the men, senior Jeremy Rae ran the 5000-meter for the first time and dipped below 14 minutes (13:59.32), while freshman Michael clevenger finished sixth in his section, setting his fourth straight personal record. 
The irish had 25 top-five finishers overall and showed they have the depth and tal­ent to reach their lofty goals, casanova said. 
“This weekend’s great per­formances move us just one step closer [to] our goals,” casanova said. “we want to win the big East and have lots more athletes compete at regionals and place at nationals.” 
in Ohio, the multi-eventers had a strong showing. On the men’s side, seniors dean Odegard and Ted Glasnow fin­ished third and fourth respec­tively, while freshman brent swanberg placed sixth in his first collegiate decathlon. sophomore carly loeffel led the women’s heptathlon from start to finish and finished 294 points ahead of her clos­est competitor with a score of 5,113. 
The irish will next com­pete at the Michigan state invitational in East lansing, Mich., on april 5 and 6. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


paid adVERTisEMENT 



MEN’S LACROSSE | sT. JOhN’s 12, Nd 10; Nd 17, MaRQuETTE 5 
scioscia leads offense in rout 


By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
Junior attack John scioscia scored a career-high six goals as No. 4 Notre dame utilized a dominating second quarter to power itself to a 17-5 win over Marquette in the teams’ first ever meeting Tuesday evening. 
The irish (7-2, 1-1 big East) outscored the Golden Eagles (2­
5) by a 6-0 margin in the second stanza to take over a game that saw Notre dame only up 2-1 af­ter 15 minutes. 
The victory came on the heels of a 12-10 upset loss to then-No. 19 st. John’s (7-2, 2-1) on saturday, which pushed the irish from their No. 1 national ranking. Notre dame fell be­hind the Red storm 10-6 after three periods and couldn’t com­plete a late rally. 
irish coach kevin corrigan said saturday’s game influenced Notre dame’s slow start Tuesday before the irish settled down in the second quarter. 
“i think our guys were very anxious about the way that we played last game. i don’t think we played great, i don’t think they felt great about it and i think we were anxious to get back on the field and make up for it, and sometimes you’re try­ing too hard to make up for it and you force things a little bit,” corrigan said. “when we settled down, we had a lot of different guys making plays and we just did a good job of playing well and together.” 
scioscia entered the game with two career goals but ex­ploded for four in the first half, including a goal with one sec­ond left in the first quarter to break a 1-1 tie. The summit, N.J., native also added an assist on the evening. 
corrigan said scioscia’s strong performance will increase his role in Notre dame’s offense. 
“John has really done a great job,” corrigan said. “he played great in the fall. he was part of our mix coming into the season and then really just hadn’t got­ten much of an opportunity this spring. My decision, not any­thing he had done wrong. Just us feeling like we needed to lim­it the number of guys that were playing. 
“and frankly he got a great op­portunity today and he took ad­vantage of it like you read about. he was terrific, and i couldn’t be happier for him, and i couldn’t be more proud of the way he handled not getting a chance before now and just continuing to work and wait his turn and when he got it, he jumped on it.” 
Junior midfielder and face-off specialist liam O’connor missed Tuesday’s game after suffering an injury saturday. corrigan did not describe the injury or give a specific time­table for O’connor’s return but said he will be out the rest of the week and be evaluated week-to-week. 
corrigan said the win over Marquette was important to put the irish back on the right track. 
“it’s not that we lost our con­fidence or anything [against st. John’s] – i mean we’ve beaten more top teams than anyone in the country at this point – but you want to get back out on the field, you want to feel good about what you’re doing and having a game like today was good for us,” he said. “plus, you get a chance for a lot of guys who haven’t had a lot of opportunity to play up until now to play a lot.” 
The irish are back in ac­tion sunday when they travel to providence, R.i., to face the Friars in a game beginning at 1 p.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

BASEBALL | Nd 6, illiNOis-chicaGO 2 
Irish douse the Flames 
By JOHN SANDBERG 
sports writer 

sophomore right hander Matt Ternowchek was outstand­ing in his first start of the sea­son Tuesday, shutting down illinois-chicago and leading No. 20 Notre dame to a 6-2 win on a chilly opening day at Frank Eck stadium. 
Ternowchek, who entered Tuesday’s game with a 3-0 re­cord and 1.86 ERa in eight relief appearances this season, made quick work of the Flames hit­ters throughout the early part of the game. after five innings, he had allowed one hit and walked none. 
“The biggest thing you can do for your team as a pitcher in terms of keeping the pace of the game going is just throw strikes and get ahead,” Ternowchek said. 
Notre dame (16-9, 2-4 big East) jumped out to an early lead in the first inning with some timely hitting out of the middle of their order. Junior first baseman Trey Mancini hit an Rbi single and was followed by sophomore left fielder Ryan bull, who added an Rbi of his own. sophomore designated hitter blaise lezynski followed suit, driving in Mancini and giving the irish a 3-0 lead after one inning. 
after adding runs in the third and fourth innings, Notre dame led 5-0. 
“it makes your job a lot easier when you can just go out there and let the guys hit it and just let your defense play behind you,” Ternowchek said about the early run support. 
illinois-chicago (13-12, 3-3 horizon league) strung some hits together to get on the board in the sixth inning. Rbi doubles in the inning from Flames cen­ter fielder Ryan shober and left fielder Tyler detmer put two runs on the board, making the score 5-2 Notre dame. 
Ternowchek left the game af­ter six innings pitched, having allowed two earned runs on four hits while walking none. 
“it’s a little bit of a transition going from relief to starting, but i got a little bit of experience with that last year,” Ternowchek said. “i’ll do whatever my coaches ask me to do … whatever it takes to help my team win.” 
Mancini added another Rbi in the seventh inning, the 100th of his career, to make the game 6-2. he finished the day 4-for-4 with two Rbis. 
lezynski also wielded a hot bat for the irish, going 2-for-3 with two Rbis and a double on the day. 
Junior right hander donnie hissa provided three innings of solid relief for Notre dame, giv­ing up no runs on one hit and striking out one batter. hissa recorded the save, his first this season. 
Flames right hander brian Evak took the loss, allowing nine hits and five runs while walking three irish batters. 
“it’s nice to get out here and get on our home field and get that first win,” Ternowchek said. “hopefully we can keep this rolling.” 
Notre dame returns to action tonight at Frank Eck stadium to take on Valparaiso at 5:35 p.m. 
Contact John Sandberg at jsandbe1@nd.edu 

MEN’S SWIMMING | Ncaa chaMpiONships 
Nd earns all-america honors 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 

part of a record nine-man Notre dame contingent, six irish swimmers earned all­america honors and the team finished tied for 36th place with seven points as a team at the Ncaa championships in indianapolis, which were held March 28 to March 30. 
“Overall, the guys are happy,” senior chris Johnson said. “we swam faster in the morning than we did at big East, so that indicated great things.” 
senior bill bass and junior Frank dyer returned to the Ncaa championships after competing last year. Joining them for the irish were seniors Johnson and John McGinley, sophomores kevin hughes, cameron Miller, Zach stephens and John williamson, and freshman bogac ayhan. The squad also qualified in the 200­, 400- and 800-yard freestyle relay events, along with the 200­and 400-yard medley relays. 
The seven points earned by Notre dame marked the second highest point total in university history. The irish earned all­america honors in three events, marking the first time in pro­gram history the team has earned more than one such honor. 
On the second night of com­petition, the 800-yard freestyle relay team of dyer, hughes, McGinley and bass placed 16th in 6:25.32, earning them an all­america honor. 
during the third and final day of competition, williamson fin­ished 13th in the 200-yard but­terfly in 1:44.18, and stephens took 16th in the 200-yard breaststroke with a time of 
1:56.43. These finishes earned both swimmers all-america honors, and they became only the third and fourth individual swimmers in program history to do so. 
while irish swimmers ad­vanced to the finals in three events, the nine irish competi­tors performed well in multiple preliminary events. 
dyer competed in the 100­yard freestyle, 200-yard free­style and 500-yard freestyle. Johnson swam in the 100­yard breaststroke and 200­yard breaststroke. Miller and stephens swam in the 200-yard individual medley, 100-yard breaststroke and 200-yard breaststroke. williamson par­ticipated in the 500-yard free­style, 100-yard butterfly and 200-yard butterfly. 
“Ncaas is just super fast and not many of us made it back for finals,” Johnson said. “[Finals] are the next step. [The irish] are going to be great in the acc, with a new place and new teams, but they can still get in and dominate.” 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 



Lee 
cONTiNuEd FROM paGE 24 
through the first period, but the huskies blew the game open with three goals in the second frame. summerhays made just four saves on seven shots in the second, prompt­ing Jackson to insert senior goaltender Mike Johnson in the third period. 
The irish hoped to spark a comeback in the final 20 min­utes but hamstrung them­selves with penalties, taking four minors over the course of the period to hurt their chanc­es at a rally. 
“we wanted to come out in the third with a lot of en­ergy and stay out of the pen­alty box,” junior winger Mike Voran said. “Obviously, that didn’t happen. we knew that if we were going to win the game, we had to take some chances. The penalties didn’t help us. we were doing it to ourselves.” 
The irish scored a conso­lation goal shorthanded, as Voran hustled in behind the play to drive home a rebound with 13 minutes to play. That was as close as Notre dame would come though, as it was the huskies who beat Johnson for the game’s last goal. The game proved to be the final one for Johnson and his fel­low seniors, defenseman sam calabrese, left wing Nick larson and right wing kevin Nugent. 
Jackson said he was proud of his seniors and the four years of contributions they have 
Kelly 
cONTiNuEd FROM paGE 24 
the specifics of it other than they’re no longer with us,” he said. “all i can tell you is when that when we break to start stretch and they’re not out there they’re no longer on the roster.” 
blue & Gold illustrated first reported the transfers of Neal and Ferguson. 
kelly also announced wednesday that junior running back amir carlisle and junior defensive end chase hounshell sustained injuries during saturday’s practice. 
carlisle, who missed all of last season with an ankle injury af­ter transferring from usc, suf­fered a broken collarbone and had surgery Tuesday. kelly said the injury is a “minor setback” for carlisle, who will likely be out for four weeks. 
“amir has had a great spring,” kelly said. “we’ve seen what we need to see out of him. he’ll be a very important player for us.” 
hounshell, who missed the 2012 season with a shoulder made to the program. 
“They are four great kids, and i am extremely proud of them,” Jackson said. “They will all graduate with degrees from Notre dame. They were good citizens off the ice. They were great as far as coaching them. They all had great attitudes, and they all had their ups and downs. They are strong char­acter kids with great futures ahead of them.” 
The irish will return the ma­jority of their roster behind the four-man senior class, but found out after the game that they lost another key member of their team when lee signed an entry level contract with the New york islanders of the Nhl. lee joined the team im­mediately after Notre dame’s loss and scored on his first shot in his debut Tuesday, a 5-2 win over winnipeg. 
Notre dame will contin­ue without its captain next year in a new conference, the hockey East association. but regardless of the conference, Jackson said he hopes that his team can continue to improve upon its performance next year. 
“i’m proud of this group of kids regardless of the out­come,” said Jackson. “They had a good season, just not good enough, plain and sim­ple. until our program wins a national championship, i won’t feel like we accom­plished what we set out to do.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
injury, reinjured the same shoulder and will miss the 2013 season. The defensive line­man had put on 20 pounds since last year, and kelly said the kirtland, Ohio, native had a great offseason. 
“he’ll have to have surgery again,” kelly said. “certainly feel terrible for chase because he’s worked so hard after a sec­ond injury. you can imagine how disappointing it is for him and for us, that he’s put in so much time and effort in getting back from that.” 
despite the roster changes, kelly said the irish will be ready come august 31 for the season opener against Temple. 
“The roster is going to shift and move,” he said. “we’re going to have some additions. we’re go­ing to have some deletions. but when it’s time to kick off against Temple, we’ll have the football team that we need to go out and play for a championship.” 
The next spring practice for the irish is today. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



McGraw 
cONTiNuEd FROM paGE 24 

more energy and intensity,” McGraw said. “we came out and made some shots. we got back in the offensive rhythm, moved the ball better and got some looks.” 
a loyd layup in transi­tion pushed Notre dame’s lead to double digits at 57-47. The irish converted 11 duke turnovers into 11 second-half points to gain control of the game. 
diggins credited McGraw for inspiring Notre dame’s resurgence. 
“coach definitely lit a fire underneath us,” she said. 
diggins scored 24 points and dished out nine assists to lead the irish. she also won her individual matchup with duke freshman guard alexis Jones, who fouled out after scoring only nine points. Junior forward haley peters led the blue devils with 15 points and 10 rebounds. 
irish junior forward Natalie achonwa lauded diggins’s contributions to the victory. 
“skylar’s the best point guard in the country,” achonwa said. “she changes the game, everything she does … she’s that much of an impact player.” 
with its victory in the Elite Eight, Notre dame moves on to the Final Four in New Orleans on sunday. The irish will face big East foe connecticut for the fourth time this year and third-straight time in the Final Four.  The game tips off at 9 p.m. 
Contact Sami Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

paid adVERTisEMENT 

, A

CROSSWORD | will shORTZ 
Across 
1 Sing the praises of 6 Online party reminder 11 Josh 
14 “The Family Circus” cartoonist 
15 Corral 
16 Surgeon’s org. 
17 Yellow-eyed 
birds of prey 20 Apple products 
since 1998 
21 Solemn column 
22 Part of a 
fraternity ritual, perhaps 
28 energystar.gov grp. 
29 Sound of delight 
30 Spectrum start 
31 Traces of smoke 
34 Dr. Seuss’s surname 

37 Decision reversal … or, literally, what can be found inside 17-, 22-, 49-and 58-Across 
41 Church laws 
42 Model’s asset 
44 Counselors’ 
org. 47 It’s hot, then 
it’s not 

48 Web video gear 
49 Cybermenaces 
56 Pants, slangily 
57 Hunter in the 
night sky 

58 How children should be, in a 
saying 
65 Eye, to a bard 

66 Apple products 
since 2001 
67 Blast from the past 
68 Code-cracking org. 
69 Guitar accessories 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


70 Place to schuss 
Down 
1 Hosp. readout 2 Gen ___ 3 ___ Bo 
(exercise system) 4 How elated people walk 5 “I want to try!” 6 Geologic span 7 Vice ___ 8 Room offerer 9 Homophone of 3-Down 10 Maze’s goal 11 Where to order oysters 
12 “My answer was …,” in teen-speak 
13 Whacked good 18 Magician’s prop 19 Sound of 
delight 22 Embroider, e.g. 23 Movie that 
might have a cast of thousands 
24 Transaction option 25 Unworldly ones 26 Gauge site, for short 27 Docile sorts 32 Pre-election ad buyer, maybe 33 Chaotic situation 34 Crystal-filled rock 35 Seemingly forever 36 Southeast Asian tongue 38 Swarming annoyance 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chRisTOphER bRuckER 

LOWER YOUREXPECTATIONS |lENNy RaGO& paTRickcROss 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  53  54  55  
56  57  
58  59  60  61  62  63  64  
65  66  67  
68  69  70  

PUZZLE BY DANIEL KANTOR 
39 Major Thai 46 Simple creature export 
50 Wordplay from 40 Late Groucho 19th-century 51 Sonata finale, anarchist’s foe often 43 Ambulance 52 ___ Perot letters 53 River islet 44 Pursues, as a 54 Some Pacific tip salmon 45 Wood-damaging 55 Belfry sound insects 59 Razor brand 
60 ___ creek 61 Blouse, e.g. 62 Hoo-ha 63 Letters on 
Halloween decorations 64 Near-failing mark 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay.Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | ThE MEphaM GROup 


SOLUTION TO TUESDAY’S PUZZLE 

4/3/13 
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2013 The Mepham Group. Distributed byTribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

HOROSCOPE | EuGENia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Michael Fassbender, 36; christopher 
Meloni, 52; Emmylou harris, 66; linda hunt, 68 Happy Birthday: your strategy must be well-thought-out before you make a move. positive action will allow you greater freedom. Refuse to let emotional matters slow you down or come between you and your goals. secrets will be di­vulged that can cost you financially. impatience will be your enemy. your timing will be crucial. Romance is highlighted. your numbers are 4, 16, 20, 28, 31, 34, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): keep an open mind. Refrain from making an im­pulsive move. stick close to home and keep a close eye on what and who is most important to you. Romance is in the stars, but emotional problems will surface if jealousy prevails. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): pick up information and study your findings before you make a move or contact anyone in a position of authority. Running your plans by someone you are close to will help you make the right decision. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take part in events that will increase your chance of making new acquaintances or business connections. don’t be afraid to show off your skills, but refrain from making a financial donation. it’s what you do physi­cally that will impress. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Follow through. don’t let anyone stand in your way. believe in who you are and what you are capable of accomplishing. your memory and expertise will not let you down. Refuse to let an emotional matter slow you down. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll stand out in a crowd. Take any opportunity you get to show off your talent. Take care of personal responsibilities quickly so you don’t miss a chance to network and collaborate with people in key positions. love and romance look promising. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a closer look at your relationships with the people you deal with daily. protect your money from anyone you feel may be in your life to take advantage of what you have to offer. pay more attention to self-improvement. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): hasty decisions regarding partnership matters will lead to regrets. sit back and observe what everyone around you is doing. if you base your next move on pertinent facts, you will expand your awareness of the possibilities that are within reach. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): size up your situation and make your next move with authority. a powerful presence will result in a much better chance to re­form, resolve or implement what you want. your vision will be crystal clear. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): stick close to home. Fixing up your place or getting to the bottom of any situation involving the people you live with will bring positive results. don’t let an outsider upset what you are trying to achieve. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Emotional matters between you and a friend, relative or neighbor will escalate if you are too pushy or give in to the pressure being put on you. keep your distance and concentrate on your responsibilities and job-related expectations. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Revisit old ideas, friends and hobbies. Make alterations to fit today’s fast-paced, technology-driven world, and you’ll turn something from your past into an auspicious new beginning. don’t shy away from something because you don’t know where to start. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): listen to your inner voice, and you will know how to make the most of a potential opportunity. contracts, settlements or any pending problems can be dealt with and put behind you. New adventures prevail once you’ve cleared your timetable. 

Birthday Baby: you are passionate, expressive and energetic. you are emotional and impatient. 
JUMBLE | daVid hOyT aNd JEFF kNuREk 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by David L. Hoyt and Jeff Knurek 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 


FUWAL  

 
 
 
 
 

©2013 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
KTELN  

 
 
 
 
 

KNARCY  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

GAADEN  

 
 
 
 
 
 

A:  
Yesterday’s  (Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: YIELD HITCH AFRAID STIGMA Answer: After the thief was caught stealing the batteries, he was — CHARGED  




Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer p.O. box 779 Notre dame, iN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester Name address city  state  Zip  



ThE ObsERVER | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2013 | NdsMcObsERVER.cOM 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 87, dukE 76 
N’awlins bound 
Notre Dame overcomes slow start to defeat Duke, advances to third straight Final Four 
By SAMI ZUBA 
sports writer 
The regional final between No. 1 seed Notre dame and No. 2 seed duke promised to be a showdown. The irish and blue devils delivered in an 87–76 win for Notre dame, the school’s 30th-straight victory. 
Notre dame (34-1, 16-0 big East) and duke (33-3, 17-1 acc) were quick in transition. defenders on both sides looked for steals and rebounds to con­vert into fast break opportuni­ties. The irish led for the first 10 minutes of the first half but could not widen a four-point lead. Notre dame committed four turnovers to duke’s seven during that time span. 
but the blue devils came charging back in the second half of the first frame. after forcing a turnover from irish senior guard skylar diggins, duke built a five-point lead with just under than eight minutes remaining in the half. with 5:16 remaining in the half, the blue devils lead by nine points. The irish cut the lead to one point with just more than one minute left un­til halftime, but a last-second three-pointer by duke guard chloe wells gave the blue devils a 37-31 lead heading into the locker room. 
diggins sat out for several minutes in the half after rack­ing up two fouls. she said duke’s quick play frustrated her initially. 
“i had two fouls early, and i had to go out,” diggins said during the postgame press conference. “They did a good job of drawing the fouls on me i guess.” 
Notre dame struggled to regain control early in the second half. The irish traded points with duke but failed to string together an extended scoring run. 
but then diggins found her scoring touch. 
she hit a long three-pointer from a few steps beyond the arc that cut Notre dame’s deficit to one with 17:42 left in the game. Notre dame regained the lead six minutes into the half on a free throw by freshman guard Jewell loyd. 
McGraw said she saw a rise in her team’s energy during the second half. 
“i thought we really came out of the locker room with a lot 
see McGRaw PAGE 22 

HOCKEY | sT. clOud sTaTE 5, Nd 1 
Irish fall in first round 
FOOTBALL 
Neal, Ferguson leave team 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports Editor 
irish sophomore receiv­ers davonte’ Neal and Justin Ferguson have left the team, irish coach brian kelly an­nounced at a press conference wednesday. 
“davonte’ Neal and Justin Ferguson are no longer part of the football program and they won’t be in the future,” kelly said. “we wish them the very best in their future endeavors.” 
The decision by the second-year receivers to leave the program comes on the heels of sophomore quarterback Gunner kiel’s departure from the team, news that broke nearly three weeks ago. 
according to EspN, Neal, kiel and Ferguson were the top three recruits in Notre dame’s class of 2012. The fourth-ranked recruit in the class, cornerback Tee shepard, left the irish last March for undis­closed reasons after enrolling in January. 
Neal was ranked the No. 8 recruit in the nation by EspN and committed to Notre dame late in the recruiting process, on Feb. 21, 2012. The 5-foot-9, 171-pounder played immediately as a freshman last season, primarily as the punt returner. Neal returned 21 punts for 46 yards, rushed once for seven yards and caught one pass for a loss of five yards. 
EspN ranked Ferguson as the 14th-best receiver in the class of 2012. The pembroke pines, Fla., native caught just one pass for nine yards as a freshman. 
kelly refused to delve into details for the transfers. 
“i’m not going to get into 
see kElly PAGE 22 


By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
The No. 4 irish had an ex­tremely successful run in the central collegiate hockey association’s final season, winning the last-ever con­ference championship at Joe 


AP 

Notre Dame poses with the Norfolk Regional trophy after defeating Duke 87-76 in the Elite Eight round of the NCAA tournament on Tuesday. The Irish will face Connecticut in the Final Four on Sunday. 
louis arena in detroit on March 24. 
Notre dame’s magical run ended there though, as the top-seeded irish (25-13-3, 17-8-3 ccha) lost to No. 9 st. cloud state 5-1 in the first round of the Ncaa tournament saturday at the hutchinson center in Toledo, Ohio. 
The huskies (25-15-1, 18-9­1 wcha) held the irish to just 18 shots and scored the game’s first four goals to hand Notre dame its first loss since Feb. 17. 
“we were disappointed with the outcome, but st. cloud played a great game,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said in a postgame press conference. 
st. cloud state jumped on the irish early, as senior for­ward ben hanowski beat irish junior goaltender steven summerhays just 11 minutes in. The irish seemed to tie the game less than 30 seconds lat­er, but junior captain anders lee’s apparent equalizer was kicked into the net, and refer­ees took it off the board. 
“it was clearly a kicking mo­tion,” lee said. “i was trying to get it back to my stick and get it back to the net. it was a reac­tion play at that high speed.” 
Even without lee’s tally, Notre dame kept it close 
see lEE PAGE 22 




