The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 130 | FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame exchange students 
Domers learn how 

Belles seek out to be teachers at courses unique to 
Saint Mary’s Notre Dame 

By KATIE McCARTY 
By KELLY KONYA 

news writer news writer 
For a small number of notre saint mary’s registrar Todd 

dame students, taking classes norris said that in the spring 
at saint mary’s is a normal 2013 semester, 152 saint mary’s 
part of their daily schedule. 
students registered for classes at 
Junior John Brahier, who is notre dame. 

majoring in mathematics at sophomore audrey kiefer, who 
notre dame and pursuing a is taking an italian course at notre 
secondary education minor at dame this semester, said she en-
saint mary’s, said he has taken joyed the opportunity and hopes 
several required courses for to continue taking notre dame 
his minor at saint mary’s. 
courses. see nd PAGE 4 BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer see smc PAGE 5 


notre dame physicist discovers earth-like planets 
crepp said the discovery adds similarity to earth in terms of size, and satisfy some of the conditions crepp said the telescope fo-
By HENRY GENS 
news writer five new planets to a confirmed with two of the planets having ra-that we think are necessary for cuses on a particular section of list of 62 systems that contain dii just 1.41 and 1.61 times greater life to form in the first place—one the nights sky and measures very 

humans may or may not be in 

a unique position in the universe, 
but we now know earth is defi­
nitely not. 
notre 
dame astrophysicist 

Justin crepp was part of the team 
that discovered the first earth-
sized terrestrial planets in a hab­than the earth’s, he said. of them being having the right slight changes in the brightness of 
crepp said the planets are simi-temperature.” stars. 
lar to earth in several ways and crepp said he undertook this “it all starts with kepler staring 
more similar than other known latest endeavor as a member of continuously at a hundred-and­
planets. a team of astrophysicists using fifty thousand stars, and there’s 
“The reason it’s special is that nasa’s kepler space Telescope to this patch of sky that it looks at 
they’re pretty much the closest view the transits of exoplanets to with an unblinking eye,” crepp 
thing that we have found that re-discover earth-like entities orbit-said. “it’s monitoring the bright­
itable zone. his team published 
sembles earth,” crepp said. “in ing solar-type stars. Transmits are ness of stars and whenever a their findings in the journal, terrestrial planets. what is most terms of their size, and their orbit-the orbits directly in front of the science, last week. notable is the unprecedented al period they resemble the earth star respective to the viewer. see planeTs PAGE 5 


‘A face behind the numbers’ 
Students and faculty work to promote immigration awareness across campus 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
notre dame was founded by immigrants and its athletic teams 
— the Fighting irish — derive their nickname from an immi­grant group. still, faculty, students and university administrators agree the university could do more when it comes to the issue of immigration. 
university president Fr. John Jenkins recently held a prayer ser­vice where he spoke in support of immigration reform. Jenkins and called on the university to contrib­ute to the national discussion and seek “just and effective immigra­tion reform.” 
some students and faculty, how­ever, Jenkins’ call to “provide wel­come to the stranger among us” answered it before it was spoken. 

Service learning 
rachel parroquin, assistant professional specialist with the center for social concerns (csc) and department of romance languages and literatures, at­tended Jenkins’ prayer service with her students. 
parroquin said she agrees that the university community needs to renew its efforts in addressing immigration issues. 
“i think it’s really something that’s needed. i’m glad people are getting informed and getting in­volved,” parroquin said. 
The students who came with parroquin were from her “community-Based spanish: language, culture and community” course. she said the course helps students understand the issues facing immigrants in the south Bend community. 
parroquin said her course in­variably increases the awareness and understanding of students 
see immigraTion PAGE 6 


Photo courtesy of  Rachel Beck 

Junior Shannon Lewry, sophomore Grace Girardot and junior Mariana Prado participate in the Border Issues seminar in southern Arizona. 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What three words describe you? 


Gabriel Jacobs 
freshman 
o’neill hall 

“archie, sports enthusiast.” 

Tim Green 
freshman 
keough hall 

“silly, timtastic, belligerent.” 

Alexa Lodenquai 
freshman 
lyons hall 
“preppy long islander.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Nicole Zielinski 
freshman 
lyons hall 
“hot southern mess.” 

Justin Wolfington 
freshman 
dillon hall 
“True american hero.” 


Eileen Chong 
senior 
howard hall 
“undecided, cheesy, predictable.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
christian myers chris allen Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

rebecca o’neill vicky Jacobsen evelyn huang casey karnes 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Brandon keelean miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Outdoor Sports Spring Concert Baseball Workshop: Write First Softball 
kevin song laura rosas 

Festival Keenan Hall Eck Baseball Stadium Coleman-Morse Melissa Cook Stadium South Quad 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 1:05 p.m.-3:05 p.m. Center 203 5 p.m.-7 p.m. 12 p.m.-5 p.m. Voices of Faith Gospel Notre Dame vs. 8 a.m.-10 a.m. Notre Dame vs. 
Corrections 

Includes rock wall and Choir will perform. Connecticut. Dissertation mini-camp. Eastern Michigan The observer regards itself as free bike repair. a professional publication and 
Lecture: The Spring Concert 
strives for the highest standards 
MFA Thesis Reading Women’s Lacrosse Sunday Mass ABEGHHK’tH Debartolo Performing 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Performing Arlotta Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Revolution Arts Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Heart Jordan Hall of Science 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-8 p.m. The Irish face off 10 a.m.-11 a.m. 7 a.m.-9 a.m. Notre Dame Jazz 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
MFA students read against the Marquette Music by the Notre Speaker Sylvester Bands will perform. 
we can correct our error. 

excerpts final theses. Golden Eagles. Dame Liturgical Choir. James Gates, Jr. 


smc magazine contributors share work at reading 
By KELLY KONYA 
news writer 
“chimes,” the biannual art and literary magazine of saint mary’s college, will be released next week.  The magazine features various creative works from saint mary’s faculty and students rang­ing from first years to seniors. 
senior and co-editor laura corrigan said many students have two pieces in the magazine, which is the maximum accepted per student. corrigan said she hopes the saint mary’s commu­nity will appreciate the pieces in this year’s edition. 
“we hope people will read and enjoy all of the pieces accepted this year and will be encouraged to submit next year,” corrigan said. “we also hope the writers’ hard work and creativity is acces­sible for others to enjoy.” 
haemmerle said “chimes” has had a long history — the first issue of the magazine was published in september of 1892. 
“The magazine has developed from being primarily a literary magazine to include art work as well,” haemmerle said. “it also is published digitally on the ‘chimes’ website.” 
haemmerle said that there were 36 poetry submissions this year, 19 of which were chosen for pub­lication.  a chapbook was chosen as well, she said. The magazine received 22 fiction submissions, 10 of these were chosen, she said. 

Junior landess kearns said she is very excited about her poem, which will be published in this year’s edition. 
“i was thrilled when they chose my poem,” kearns said. “it always it such an accomplishment to have work recognized by others, 
“I loved the reading last night because it is fun to share a creative piece with other people who love literature and art like I do.” 
Rose Franzen 
senior 

and i think that “chimes” does a great job at selecting a wide vari­ety of student pieces.” 
corrigan said students and professors read both fiction and non-fiction pieces during the first official “chimes” reading Thursday night in spes unica hall at saint mary’s. 
corrigan said attendance at the reading by both students and pro­fessors was better than expected. 
sophomore maria monreal, se­nior elizabeth elsbach and soph­omore anna Fanelli read their pieces at Thursday’s gathering, 
paid adverTisemenT 
where other writers shared their work as well. 
elsbach said she has enjoyed being published in the “chimes” multiple times through her years at saint mary’s, and likes seeing the literary talent in the commu­nity. she shared one of her poems at Thurday’s event, elsbach said. 
“i read one of my poems called ‘grinding the dregs’ at the ‘chimes’ event,” elsbach said. “it’s about sexuality and how people exploit it.  it’s always a pleasure to be chosen.” 
senior rose Franzen said she read one of her fictional short stories, entitled “my Brother’s keeper,” about her brother com­ing back from active duty. 
she said she enjoyed sharing the story with others interested in art and creative writing. 
“i loved the reading last night because it is fun to share a cre­ative piece with other people who love literature and art like i do,” Franzen said. 
Fanelli, a humanistic studies and german major, said that she enjoyed hearing the work of stu­dents from various majors. 
“i was shocked when one of the girls was a Biology major,” Fanelli said.  “it’s cool that not only english majors take part in this publication.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Campus unites to ‘reclaim the night’ 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
The chant “Join together. Free our lives. we will not be victim­ized.” echoed through campus as students from saint mary’s and notre dame united to take a public stand against sexual vio­lence Thursday night. 
The two schools collaborated in this year’s Take Back the night event, which featured a candle­light vigil at the grotto, a march through notre dame’s campus and a speak out with dinner in the hospitality room of south dining hall. 
The event was co-sponsored by the gender relations center (grc) at the university and the Belles against violence office (Bavo) at the college. christine caron gebhart, direc­tor of the grc, said Take Back the night’s theme reflects the center’s overarching purpose. 
“our goal is to help students think about and form healthy and safe relationships where we as a community take care of our­selves and others because that is what we are called to do by god,” gebhart said. “For some, this is part of the process of healing and reclaiming their voice af­ter an event that has taken their power.” 
gebhart said each part of the event was designed with a spe­cific purpose. The prayer service serves as time to heal, she said. The march was a time to pub­licly eliminate taboos associated with sexual assault and the din­ner gave people an opportunity to share their stories and have supporters listen, she said. 
caron gebhart said the din­ner is part of the event because of how it brings people together and provides both comfort and healing. 
“Then we break bread togeth­er because that’s what we do as a community because food can be comforting, it could be a way to gather but most importantly a way to heal,” gebhart said. 
she said the structure of Take Back the night re­flects a sunday mass. “we gather together, we break bread, we become stronger and go forth in the world and make changes so that peoples’ dignity is preserved and protected, es­pecially the most vulnerable,” caron gebhart said. 
nicole sganga, a sophomore fire starter who attended the dinner and speak out, said the event means something differ­ent to everyone and a great deal to those who are victims of sexu­al violence. 
“it’s personal,” sganga said. “i feel like it means something dif­ferent for everyone. holding an event like this each year shows that we are trying to address top­ics like this, which do happen on our campus. i have friends who look forward to this each year because for them, it’s a way to continue the healing process.” 
gebhart said the event also cultivates a strong sense of unity and shared responsibility. 
“it’s also a time for us to stand together in solidarity—to break the silence that often occurs around issues of sexual violence and assault,” caron gebhart said. “it’s that neat thing when we stand in solidarity and realize that this support extends beyond our campus, our community to the world. we do it here on cam­pus because students who have been impacted and to remind us that we as a community, notre dame and saint mary’s have to stand against this.Take Back the night doesn’t just appeal to a particular demographic, it ap­peals to humanity, she said. 
“some people think that sexual violence in assault is a women’s issue, but men can be and are assaulted,” gebhart said. “But most importantly, when sexual assault occurs, it’s violence against a community. when a piece of the community is hurt, or broken or wounded then that hurts all of us.” 
The solidarity extends past gender, sexual orientation and social standing, gebhart said, emphasizing the number of men who attended the event. 
“i think the presence of the men is incredibly important be­cause this impacts their lives: some directly and some indi­rectly but most importantly, what it really says to us is that this is our issue, not a men’s or a women’s, not a gay, not a straight, it’s about humanity,” she said. 
saint mary’s and notre dame were not the only community participating in Take Back the night. The south Bend com­munity and iusB also held Take Back the night events on Thursday. 
Take Back the night is relevant in both a literal and figurative sense, gebhart said. 
“often victims will talk about this shadow, which is why you have groups like out of the shadows, but also you know, un­der the veil of night its easy to do violence to one another because we can dehumanize one anoth­er,” she said. “it’s both literal, in the sense that it is when sexual violence occurs, but symbolic in the sense that that is what hap­pens to people who experience this. we’re going to be a light for them. 
“as we walk around campus, we’re not competing with other events. we are all standing to­gether, saying we need to be a part of this night, this day and in this way people will speak ou“. we don’t just need to take back this night, we need to take back every night and every day.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 



ND 
conTinued From page 1 
“i’ve taken a number of classes at smc, all part of my secondary education major,” Brahier said. “smc has the education program i was look­ing for, so when i graduate, the plan is that i’ll have both the secondary education minor and a license to teach.” 
Junior madeline swan, who is a math and sociology double major, also has a secondary ed­ucation minor at saint mary’s. 
swan said the small class sizes, good learning environ­ments, and caring professors are instrumental to her suc­cess at saint mary’s. 
her experience at saint mary’s has helped her move past common prejudices held between female students at notre dame and saint mary’s, swan said. 
“The professors have been awesome and i have met some truly great classmates,” swan said. “also, this has helped me break down stereotype bar­riers for me that are typically present between smc and nd girls.” 
Brahier said it was initially difficult to be the only male in many of his saint mary’s courses, but the transition has gotten easier with time. 
“it was a big difference for me at first because i came from an all-guys high school, so to go to classes of almost all girls was a pretty big change,” he said. “obviously there was a bit of an adjustment period at first, but it’s not really a big deal in the long-run.” 
Brahier said his decision to enroll at saint mary’s was due to notre dame not offering the education training he wanted. 
“my plan after graduation is to teach math in a high school, but notre dame doesn’t have an education department that directly prepares students to be teachers and helps with the licensing process,” he said. 
Brahier said taking courses through the education depart­ment at saint mary’s has been a positive experience and his professors take an interest in student success. 
“The education department at smc has sponsored some really cool events related to social justice in education and is a big proponent of ser­vice-learning,” Brahier said. “By and large, the faculty i’ve worked with at smc have been great - they seem to really care about each student and want us to do our best. in general, i think that’s definitely true at notre dame as well.” 
notre dame students en­rolled in saint mary’s classes are assigned a saint mary’s advisor in addition to their ad­visor at notre dame, Brahier said. his saint mary’s helps him choose his courses and build his schedule, he said. 
Brahier said he works with his two advisors separately. 
“if i have a question about education classes, i have to go to the smc advisor,” he said. “For math or theology, i go to my advisor from each of those departments at nd.” 
he said his courses at saint mary’s are determined by his major requirements, so he 
“I’ve discovered how lucky I am to get the chance to participate in such a great education program as an ND student as well as collaborate and learn from some great Saint Mary’s students.” 
Madeline Swan 
junior 
meets with his saint mary’s advisor regularly and registers for courses in person. 
“registration for my classes at smc is relatively straightfor­ward because i have a pretty set list of classes that i have to take, so basically i just meet with my advisor over there on a regular basis to make sure i stay on track from semester to semester,” Brahier said. “i don’t do any online registra­tion for those classes - instead, it’s all through contact with my advisor.” 
swan said she feels fortu­nate to have the opportunity to study at both institutions. 
“i’ve discovered how lucky i am to get the change to partici­pate in such a great education program as an nd student as well as collaborate and learn from some great saint mary’s students,” she said. 
Brahier said the combination of classes from notre dame and saint mary’s has also been rewarding for him. 
“Both schools definitely are focused on their identities as catholic schools, and both schools have a sense of pur­pose and mission,” he said. “my favorite part of the sec­ondary education minor at smc has been getting to work with the faculty that is so pas­sionate about preparing us to be great teachers. Their staff is dedicated and wants us to do our best, and studying in that incredibly positive atmosphere has been very rewarding.” 


Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



SMC 
conTinued From page 1 
“it’s an awesome opportunity, and to me really the only differ­ence is the guys being there in class,” kiefer said.  “i am excited to take more notre dame courses in the future, and i would encourage any saint mary’s girl to try it out.” 
norris said saint mary’s seniors are allowed to register for two notre dame course per semester and other students are allowed one per semester. 
senior academic advisor for saint mary’s, april lane said most students who take advantage of this opportunity want to take classes that are not offered at the college or to experience taking a class with new students and professors. 
norris said Belles took the notre dame classes “irish ghost stories,” “wind ensembles,” “maritime affairs,” “abnormal psychology” and “national security affairs,” 

paid adverTisemenT 
“when working with my group members throughout the year on different projects, they never treated me differently or belittled my work just because i was a saint mary’s student,” alsawalha said. “actually, many nd students are interested as to how the dual pro­gram functions and ask me about it when they find out i am from smc.” 
senior leslie wilson, who en­rolled in an irish Folklore course this semester, said she had not taken a course at notre dame before registering for this course. she said she chose the class be­cause she had studied abroad in ireland. 
“i found that the course was very interesting and i wanted to take it because i had studied abroad in ireland my sophomore year,” wilson said.  “The subject interested me because it focused on an irish subject, and there aren’t any saint mary’s courses like that.” 
other students choose to take courses that count toward gradu­ation requirements, since many notre dame courses do not fulfill saint mary’s major requirements. 
sophomore nicole o’Toole said she registered for a political science course titled “american marriage” to further her interest in political issues. 
“i love being in the mix with notre dame students,” o’Toole said. “at saint mary’s, most of my classes are filled with girls who are very similar to me. it is fun to be in a different setting with people of different backgrounds, races, religions, and, of course, genders. i think it really challeng­es me.” 
sophomore grace harvey, who enrolled in a catholic moral Theology course, said her notre dame course is less conducive to socializing than her saint mary’s courses. 
“my lecture is double the size my classes at saint mary’s, so many of the students do not inter­act with each another unless they were already friends coming into the class,” harvey said. “i feel like at saint mary’s, we linger behind once class ends to talk to friends, but at notre dame, students at­tend class and leave quickly, like class is strictly business.” 
alsawalha said the size of her classes doesn’t make a differ­ence in terms of access to her professors. 
“professors always provide of­fice hours for all of their students to come and see them,” alsawalha said.  “obviously, the way classes are conducted is very different between the two schools, but both provide an equally incred­ible teaching environment.” 
harvey and o’Toole said their notre dame and saint mary’s courses are equally challenging. harvey said the difficulty levels of her courses vary with each pro­fessor’s different teaching styles. 
“it’s hard to compare course work because it all really de­pends on the professor,” harvey said.  “my notre dame course is challenging for different reasons, like the take-home tests and the longer readings are both things i don’t have in my saint mary’s business courses.” 
o’Toole said because her notre dame course is mostly discus­sion-based, the content of the course is both challenging and rewarding. 
“it is interesting that my pro­fessor at notre dame completely leads the discussions and calls on each student by name,” o’Toole said.  “it definitely makes you want to be prepared for class, whereas at saint mary’s we usu­ally respond to each other freely.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
among other classes during the spring 2013 semester. 
norris also said certain groups of students have a greater tenden­cy to take notre dame courses than the average saint mary’s student. 
“There are a few groups who consistently take notre dame courses, like roTc, music majors, and engineering students,” norris said. 
kiefer said she was worried at first that she might have to con­front preconceived ideas about saint mary’s students. 
“i thought it would be intimi­dating, and that i would have to overcome stereotypes of being a ‘smick chick’ at first,” kiefer said. “But after about one month of classes, i think everyone forgot i was even from saint mary’s.” 
sophomore Battol alsawalha, a student in the dual engineering degree program, said she has not faced any negative stereotypes in her engineering courses. 


Planets 
conTinued From page 1 
planet passes in front of the star, it casts a shadow or blocks some of that light, and kepler is sensitive enough to actually measure that.” 
crepp said he follows up with a ground-based optics approach to further characterize the system once notified by a sophisticated algorithm that combs through the kepler data to determine planetary candidates. 
“i use a large telescope from the ground and my role in this par­ticular kepler discovery was to follow up those objects of interest with imaging,” crepp said. “From the ground i can actually see if 
paid adverTisemenT 
there are any sources of contami­nation that might trick us into thinking we’re looking at planets, but we’re actually just looking at a vanilla binary.” 
he said one of the most impor­tant aspects of this step in the process is ruling out all probable alternatives that may result in the signal being a false positive, such as when the system actually has two stars — a binary — that oc­cult each other. This binary prob­lem occurs with 50% of all stars, crepp said. 
despite the recent discov­ery, crepp said he believes that they’ve reached the limits of what they can currently characterize in the kepler 62 system. 
crepp said the next step, beyond continuing to look through the nasa database of roughly 3,000 keplar objects of interest (kois) for other earth-like planets, is to start looking for such planets clos­er to home. 
crepp said he is working to develop an instrument he calls the infrared large Binocular Telescope exoplanet recovery, or ilocaTer, which will use a fun­damentally different detection technique to search for earth-like planets roughly 10 lightyears away — two orders of magnitude closer than the current sampling performed by the kepler project. 
“my instrument uses a different technique; it doesn’t use the tran­sit technique. it uses the doppler radial velocity technique where you look at a star’s ‘wobble’ in-and-out of the sky,” he said. “if a planet is orbiting a star it will orbit its center of mass and so if you just isolate what the star is doing, it’s being tugged on by the planet ever so subtlety, a few meters per a sec­ond as it turns out — about as fast as you would run. it’s impressive that you can actually measure that for a star.” 
crepp said he will have the ilocaTer making measure­ments in two years, which will then allow researchers to make the next step in characterizing the atmospheres and composition of nearby earth-like planets that are discovered. 
crepp said the discovery is an important step in human under­standing of the universe, but it prompts more questions than it answers. 
“it’s still a small step in the grand scheme of things but it’s an essential, really important step,” he said. “you answer one question and it brings up others.” 
Contact Henry Gens at hgens@nd.edu 



The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

illegal,” ropa said. the scia since it formed in 2011. rangel said much of what the considers the university’s role in 
Immigration 

moreno said that overall her rangel said he volunteered for group does next year will be deter-the national discussion on immi­
conTinued From page 6 

students enjoy the class and the the group after attending a lecture mined by national politics and im-gration to be providing an alterna­when it comes to immigration opportunity it affords to interact given by cardinal roger mahony migration reform measures now tive basis to consumer culture and issues. with the local latino community, of los angeles, who started the before congress. economics. 
“it always comes out in the stu-which is why she continues to group during a visit to notre dame “it all comes down to the cur-“i think there’s a more general dents’ writing, whether reflections teach the course. in 2011. rent immigration proposal in con-conversation going on around or final papers, that by working “it’s a really amazing opportu-“i started getting involved in gress,” he said. “if anything comes college campuses. i think notre with the community they learn nity and students really appreciate 2011 as a freshman,” rangel said. out of that, it will become our fo-dame can take a leading role and that the statistics they’re working it. seniors tell me they wish they “cardinal mahony from l.a. came cus. if nothing comes out of it, that show how catholic universities with have faces,” she said. “They had heard about la casa sooner,” to campus and spoke about immi-will motivate us to do more here on can approach the issue,” he said. learn immigration issues are not she said. “as long as i can, i’m go-gration. he asked if students were campus.” “other schools are looking at the just theoretical and these people ing to keep doing latino literature interested in working on immigra-rangel said he is encouraged by economics, but the church has live them every day.” classes with service learning.” tion reform. he said he wanted to Jenkins calling the whole univer-more to offer. we can focus on 
marisel moreno, institute for mike hebbeler, director of stu-create a group for such students on sity’s attention to the issue. keeping families together, making latino studies fellow, kellogg dent leadership and senior transi-all catholic campuses in the u.s.” “continuing the discussion at an sure agricultural laborers aren’t institute for international studies tions at the csc, said he created the rangel said he answered administrative level is a great start,” exploited, ensuring the dignity of fellow and assistant profes-csc seminar course “advocacy for mahony’s invitation because he he said. “any possible solutions to all humans and recognizing the sor of romance languages and the common good” in partner-comes from a place where im-immigration problems are going to contributions that all groups can literatures, also promotes im-ship with catholic relief services migration is a major community come at the administrative level. i make to these goals.” migration awareness through her (crs) to help students learn advo-issue. think the administrators and staff groody said the university is ob-courses. cacy skills. “For me it’s kind of my back-doing their part, combined with ligated to confront the issues en­
moreno said she has taught a ground in general,” he said. “living our student efforts, will lead to a tangled with immigration. 
u.s. latino literature course with CSC immersion courses in southern california, it’s part good impact on awareness and on “immigration is part of our uni-service learning in the south Bend hebbeler said students who took of everyday life. living in an ag-advocacy efforts here on campus.” versity heritage, part of our catholic community each semester for csc immersion courses related ricultural region, many of my faith, part of our service tradition the past three years. moreno said to immigration, like the “Border friends were undocumented or ‘Challenges of our time’ and it’s also part of our present re-students in the course, which is issues” and “migrant workers” had relatives and friends who were Fr. dan groody, director of the ality,” he said. “a university should restricted to juniors and seniors, seminars, came back with the pas-undocumented.” center for latino spirituality and be engaged in the challenges of our are required to tutor grade school, sion to advocate for immigration rangel said the student coalition culture within the institute for time.” middle school and high school reform, but lacked the necessary for immigration advocacy (scia), latino studies, has worked as part students at la casa for at least two skills and knowledge. which mahony formed, brings to-of university’s task force on immi-Contact Christian Myers at hours each week. “students come back from these gether notre dame, saint mary’s gration commissioned by Jenkins. cmyers8@nd.edu 
moreno said this community immersion courses and have a and holy cross students. rangel groody said his work on im­based learning helps students hu-strong passion for the issue and said there are approximately 40 migration issues began when paid adverTisemenT manize the things they learn in the want to effect change, but they notre dame students currently in he worked as a priest in latin classroom. don’t necessarily possess the skills the scia. america. 
“The idea behind this kind of to implement change,” hebbeler rangel said scia has taken a “my work and writing has in-pedagogy is the student is not only said. “so the course aims to equip “two-pronged approach” in their volved looking at the church’s exposed to the academic questions them with the skills to act on their efforts to both promote awareness response to immigration, the spir­in the classroom, but is stepping passion in an effective way.” of immigration issues and advo-ituality of migrants and the theol­beyond the classroom and gaining Junior rachel Beck said she took cate immigration policy reform. ogy of migration,” groody said. “it real experience,” moreno said. “it’s the advocacy course after taking scia has partnered with clubs starts in my experience during the really powerful, because they can the csc’s Border issues seminar. like the psa and the movimiento years i lived and worked as a priest put a face behind the numbers.” Beck said the students in the estudiantil chicano de aztlan in latin america.” 
senior mary pullano, a student course worked to petition indiana’s (mecha) to put on small scale groody said because of the in moreno’s class, said interact-u.s. senators on the subject of im-events, he said. university’s catholic tradition, he ing with immigrants at la casa migration reform. 
paid adverTisemenT 

increased her understanding of “our main goal was to do a letter complex immigration issues and petition and send it to the indiana the human side of those issues. senators,” Beck said. “we advo­
“what has made me most sensi-cated around the issues of reunifi­tive to immigrants is working with cation of families and better legal the immigrant families at la casa, migration from the perspective witnessing both their great need of catholic social teaching. we fo­and great generosity,” pullano said. cused especially on family reunifi­“i have always understood that im-cation because family is something migration is not a black-and-white people really care about in the issue, but the community based notre dame community.” learning has helped me to see the hebbeler said the csc provides deep complexity of the issue.” training for students in the course 
moreno said another part of because immigration is an impor­her course is an immersion week-tant issue for the church. The csc end in which students stay in the promotes advocacy in accordance homes of families that are served with catholic social teaching, he by la casa. said.“The global church is taking 
“while they’re there [students] this issue seriously and advocating are able to discuss some immi-on behalf of immigrants. you could gration issues like legal status and say we are an immigrant church, at language barriers with their host least in america we are,” he said. families,” she said. “many of [the “This, of course, is all rooted in the families] are undocumented — gospel.” and i’m always careful to use un-students have also taken it upon documented not illegal. after the themselves to advocate and edu­immersion weekend and working cate on the topic of immigration. at la casa, students begin to un-Beck said after taking the advocacy derstand how complicated this is-course, she and her classmates sue is.” have joined the student coalition 
senior Jim ropa, also a student for immigration advocacy (scia) in moreno’s class, said the im-and progressive student alliance mersion weekend exposed him to (psa) in promoting immigration problems with the current u.s. im-awareness. migration policies. she said the most recent collab­
“i lived with a mexican-orative project was a video entitled american family for a weekend “Faces of immigration,” which can and realized that only a flawed sys-be found on youTube. tem could allow a woman who has been living here for 21 years, apply-Student and advocate ing for citizenship throughout, [to] sophomore Juan rangel, chief of be the only person in her family staff to student body president alex of 17 people to still be considered coccia, said he has worked with 




Boston victims receive outpour of financial support 
Associated Press 
cost of amputating a leg? at least $20,000. cost of an artificial leg? more than $50,000 for the most high-tech models. cost of an amputee’s rehab? often tens of thousands of dollars more. 
These are just a fraction of the medical expenses victims of the Boston marathon bombing will face. 
The mammoth price tag is probably not what patients are focusing on as they begin the long healing process. But friends and strangers are already setting up fundraisers and online crowd­funding sites, and a huge Boston city fund has already collected more than $23 million in individ­ual and corporate donations. 
no one knows yet if those do­nations — plus health insurance, hospital charity funds and other sources — will be enough to cover the bills. Few will even hazard a guess as to what the total medical bill will be for a tragedy that killed three people and wounded more than 260. at least 15 people lost limbs, and other wounds include head injuries and tissue torn apart by shrapnel. 
health insurance, as practically anyone who has ever gotten hurt or sick knows, does not always cover all costs. in the case of arti­ficial limbs, for example, some in­surance companies pay for a basic model but not a computerized one with sophisticated, lifelike joints. 

rose Bissonnette, founder of the new england amputee association, said that the mo­ment she heard about the bomb-Bissonnette shared one group end said, ‘how long are you going ings, she knew immediately that member’s struggle to get coverage to need the prosthetic hands?’” her organization’s services would for artificial arms as an example Bissonnette recalled. be needed. The advocacy group of the red tape some bombing vic-Bissonnette herself was in a helps amputees navigate things tims could face. The woman “got horrific car crash 16 years ago that such as insurance coverage for ar-a call from the insurance com-left her with injuries similar to tificial limbs. pany and the person on the other those facing the Boston victims. 
paid adverTisemenT 


her mangled lower left leg had to be amputated and her right ankle was partially severed. her five-month hospital stay cost more than $250,000. health insurance covered all her treatment, rehab and her prosthesis. 
health economist Ted miller noted that treating just one trau­matic brain injury can cost mil­lions of dollars, and at least one survivor has that kind of injury. he also pointed out that the medi­cal costs will include treating anxiety and post-traumatic stress 
— “an issue for a whole lot more people than just people who suf­fered physical injuries,” he said. 
adding to the tragedy’s toll will be lost wages for those un­able to work, including two massachusetts brothers who each lost a leg, miller said. They had been roofers but may have to find a new line of work. 
many survivors will also need help with expenses beyond imme­diate health care, including things like modifying cars for those who lost limbs or remodeling homes to accommodate wheelchairs. 
many survivors live in massachusetts, a state that re­quires residents to have health insurance, “which should cover most of their required treatment,” said amie Breton, spokeswoman for massachusetts’ consumer af­fairs office. “The total cost of that treatment is impossible to calcu­late at this early stage.” 
amputees may face the steep­est costs, and artificial legs are the costliest. They range from about $7,200 for a basic below-the-knee model to as much as $90,000 for a high-tech microprocessor-con­trolled full leg, said dr. Terrence sheehan, chief medical officer for adventist rehabilitation hospital in rockville, md., and medical di­rector of the amputee coalition, a national advocacy group. 
legs need to be replaced every few years, or more often for very active users or those who gain or lose weight. limb sockets need to be replaced even more often and also cost thousands of dollars each, sheehan said. 
massachusetts is among about 20 states that require health in­surers to pay for prosthetic limbs, but many plans don’t cover 100 percent of those costs, sheehan said. “most are skimpy beyond basic prosthetics and they have not caught up with current avail­able technology,” he said. 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Acclimate to the policy 
a different tour 

Kristen Durbin 
senior news writer 

as a senior whose graduation looms on the no longer distant horizon, i can’t avoid the constant realizations that a particular activity will be my “last” at notre dame. no matter how vehemently i deny the impend­ing conclusion of my college experience, i’m slowly realizing how drastically different my life routine will be in just a few weeks. 
preemptive post-college depression aside, i unknowingly gave my last tour of campus for the undergraduate admissions office monday. after such an abrupt end to my career as one of notre dame’s loyal sales­people, i considered how my tour guide spiel might have changed had i been cognizant of my last hurrah. i could have thrown caution to the wind and been as honest as possible about the notre dame student experience and avoided pr-friendly answers to every parent and wide-eyed prospie’s burning questions about our beloved university. 
a sampling of my ideas for the realest campus tour ever: 
dorm life: if you enjoy wearing matching articles of clothing (looking at your neon orange beanies, Juggerknotts) to categori­cally awkward class-wide social gatherings in leaky geodesic domes, you’ll love our Frosh-o weekend! good luck getting to class on time or meeting other humans if you’re in carroll and get your birthday suit ready if Zahm or alumni become your new home. Just because you party in the dorms doesn’t mean you can’t get a little drunken dFmo action every now and then. oh, and what are parietals, you ask? ha. ha ha. don’t let me spoil the surprise. 
academics: is the workload tough at notre dame, you ask? only if you never go to class, open your textbooks or set foot in the library during your four years here. you probably think you’ve got it in the bag and are already buying books to get a head start. Just wait until you come back from a semes­ter abroad, turn 21 and lose all work ethic as soon as you thought you had school down to a science. 
Football: i don’t care if you don’t know the difference between a quarterback and a linebacker, notre dame football will be your life every fall whether you like it or not. in this case, “football” includes all game weekend traditions, namely Friday 40s at 4 and tailgates. do all the tame, touristy stuff the first time your parents come to a game, then bring them to all those mythical park­ing lot ragers. 
general wisdom: work hard, play hard. nickname freshman acquaintances so you can finally connect names with faces in your senior class yearbook. enjoy 2 a.m. reckers while it’s a thing. make friends with the best people you will ever meet, not the worst. learn to love Finny’s despite its abili­ty to burn massive holes in your wallet while also erasing your dignity. and above all, love thee notre dame. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 

ever since the leprechaun legion sent out an email proclaim­ing a general-admission student ticket policy for the next foot­ball season, campus has been buzzing with mostly negative comments about the change. many students are concerned the notre dame football experience will change for the worse. we fear football saturdays won’t be the same if we have to worry about having less tailgating time, losing friends in the stadium or fighting over prime seating. people have been outspoken about their dissent, and a petition has circulated in an attempt to re­verse the policy change. 
The problem is not that the student body disagrees with the leprechaun legion’s goal for the policy change, increasing spir­ity and energy in the stadium. everyone wants the football team to feel supported and the most ardent fans to be at the very front cheering them on. But, was altering the ticket system from a functional, assigned-seating plan to a general-admission policy the only solution? 
The leprechaun legion could have used a variety of more positive incentives to encourage students to get to the stadium on time. For example, it could bring the leprechaun and the cheerleaders out earlier, play live music, distribute free T-shirts or invite special guests to pump up the crowd. notre dame stu­dents don’t have a problem with generating hype on game days. The issue is that this policy introduces a sense of friction and competition into the fan experience. 
The conflict also stems from a lack of communication between the decision makers and the student body. The decision was made by a small, insulated group of students who don’t seem to reflect the majority opinion of the student body, and this lack of transparency has been a primary source of frustration on cam­pus. when it comes to football, tradition is one of the most im­portant aspects of our four years at notre dame. any change will meet some kind of reaction or backlash from the student body, especially when it is unexpected, but the reaction to the policy change probably would have been less severe had students at large been given the opportunity to weigh in on the decision. 
despite the negativity surrounding this issue, the legion has made it clear they will not change the policy. since there is noth­ing we can do to change it at this point, we have two options. one option is to continue to complain and to berate the legion, or one can start planning how to acclimate to the new gameday environment. 
For example, in order to avoid losing your friends during the rush into the stadium, it might be a good idea to walk in at the same time to make sure you sit together, since saving seats is technically not allowed. Because the cell-phone reception on game days is less than reliable, choose a meeting place some­where inside the stadium to reconvene in case your group is separated. 
one of the most-vocalized concerns about the new policy is its expected minimization of the amount of time left for tail­gating and visiting with family and friends before games. one logical solution that still allows for a decent seat in the stadium is to start the festivities earlier. let your visitors know about the new policy so you can stop by their tailgates before you would have seen them in past years. This way, everyone will have just as much time to spend enjoying the gameday atmosphere as they had before. 
in order to accommodate large groups of people who want to sit together, go into the stadium expecting to do a little negotiat­ing. since no one will have a claim to one specific seat, every­one will need to be flexible so all can enjoy the game with their friends. if that means your group has to move up a few benches so the entire first floor of carroll hall can stand together, take the high road and make the move. 
That also means those in large groups need to be as polite as possible. don’t be obnoxious and try to squeeze where you obvi­ously cannot fit. except for the final few rows of the student sec­tion, there really aren’t any bad seats in notre dame’s relatively small stadium. one of the benefits of this change is that students aren’t fixed to one spot and will be able to be more social. who knows, you might make some new friends. 
Finally, part of the reason the legion implemented this new policy is because of its success at other schools, such as ohio state university and the university of oregon. if you know anyone at schools with general admission tickets, find out what strategies they use to make the most of their gameday experience. 
even though we do not always approve of change right away, traditions here clearly have been molded so they can meet the needs of the ever-changing student body. at first there was a neg­ative reaction to canned music in the stadium, but now, when “crazy Train” blasts from the speakers, the entire student sec­tion is bursting with energy and good spirits. 
similarly, this change might receive negative attention at the moment, but years from now, it might become just another gameday tradition to go into the stadium an hour and a half be­fore the game, listening to music during a mini pep rally before kickoff. 
no matter how much our campus is rooted in tradition, the passage of time means sometimes these traditions will be tweaked. although next football season might be different be­cause of the new policy, hopefully we will learn to accept it as a piece of notre dame’s very special gameday experience. 
after all, it’s more about who you sit with than how close you are to the field. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

volunteering abroad 
a year ago i wrote an article just short of begging anyone and their brother to backpack through south america with me. my attempts were futile and last october i set off in a wolf pack of one. while this wasn’t my ideal scenario, i am overjoyed by everything i was able to experience. so, i am writing an article for two reasons, one — to encourage cur­rent students to take time off and travel — with or without a partner, it’s worth it. my second reason is to promote a cou­ple of the volunteer opportunities i was able to experience. 
The first opportunity is one that doesn’t stray far from home at all. Father Joseph uhen, a notre dame grad, ven­tured down to piura, peru in 1993. since then, he has helped to establish one of the most incredible parishes i have ever experienced — santisimo sacramento. i had the privilege of volunteering there for a little over two months. my time was spent assisting the nurses in the clinic or doing home visits, helping the social work office organize and distribute food and wellness packets to members of the community, and teaching english at the school. working at santisimo was one of the most spiritually fulfilling experiences of my life. The program is safe and well established, making it an ideal vol­unteer experience. i would recommend this trip to anyone. 
The second volunteer experience was nestled in the beautiful andean mountains just outside of la paz, Bolivia with a program called up-close Boliva. i spent nearly two months volunteering here with a group of about 10 volunteers from around the world. The living conditions couldn’t be better — beautiful scenery, wonderful, welcom­ing people and a very strong community presence. my time spent there was primarily in the community sponsored day­care — which provides childcare for low-income families. however, there are countless opportunities working with up-close. The volunteers work on community projects, teach english, work in the local zoo, organize after school activities and become active participants in helping with community issues. i am a huge supporter of the mission statement of up-close  which is based on sustainability and community involvement, and they do a wonderful job of put­ting the words into action. 
Both experiences were incredible — providing a new per­spective on life and wonderful new relationships. and the good news is, they are always looking for new volunteers to share this experience! if you have any questions or interest in working with either of these organizations or donating, please email me (alicia.r.carroll@gmail.com). i would love to give more information. you can also find information about both organizations online. 
Alicia Carroll 
class of 2012 saint mary’s college april 23 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
The age of apathy 
Connor Roth 
Think. it’s not illegal yet 

our generation has grown up with dramatic change — the world has revo­lutionized through this “information age” in which we live and cultures have changed significantly too. we grew up around technology and witnessed the beauty and horror that can occur in the hands of mankind: the wonder of the internet has awed us as we access books, journals and encyclopedias in just a few clicks of a mouse, the horror has oc­curred most prominently in the attacks of sept. 11, 2001. Two hundred years ago, traveling by flight was unthinkable, just as telecommunication via inter­connected networks was something of fantasy. in comparing modern society with the past, we’ve made great strides, but it feels as if something is still hold­ing us back. something about human nature is preventing our culture from attaining what some may call “enlight­enment,” which indubitably will have different meanings to different people, but we can use one interpretation for the sake of the question that will follow in the next paragraph. some would argue the initiation of force/violence in any scenario is a moral wrong and thus all human interactions should be voluntary and non-coercive — but we obviously do not have this truly free society, so what’s holding us back? 
in considering the previous ques­tion, we should examine two dystopian novels many people debate on which is the truly accurate social commentary: george orwell’s “1984” and aldous huxley’s “Brave new world.” neil 
Joel Kolb 
The provocateur 
Finish what you started. 

it is because of this precept that any of the roughly 3.5 million viewers of the ninth season of “The office” are still watching “The office.” at points, the past two seasons “The office” have been more zombie-like than “The walking dead” and less exciting than a Brittney griner dunk. most of the same cast re­mains, but the magic is gone. “where did the bough break?” one might ask. it broke the second regional manager michael scott headed to the mile high state. 
as a relative pointed out to me, “The office” was the tragedy of michael scott. as the seasons passed by, we learned all michael yearned for was companion­ship, with countless episodes reaching a climax when michael’s shortcomings in this regard were exposed. This yearning was invariably unfulfilled, episode after episode. a particular episode comes to mind, when employees of dunder mifflin brought their daughters to work. michael has ryan bring in an old film when he was a child on a local television show. young michael reveals he wants to “be married and have a hundred kids so i can have a hundred friends and no one postman famously distinguished the two books in a foreword to a novel of his own, writing, “what orwell feared were those who would ban books. what huxley feared was that there would be no reason to ban a book, for there would be no one who wanted to read one. orwell feared those who would deprive us of information. huxley feared those who would give us so much that we would be reduced to passivity and ego­tism. orwell feared that the truth would be concealed from us. huxley feared the truth would be drowned in a sea of irrel­evance. orwell feared we would become a captive culture. huxley feared we would become a trivial culture, preoccu­pied with some equivalent of the feelies, the orgy porgy, and the centrifugal bum­blepuppy. as huxley remarked in ‘Brave new world revisited,’ the civil libertar­ians and rationalists who are ever on the alert to oppose tyranny failed to take into account man’s almost infinite ap­petite for distractions. in ‘1984,’ orwell added, people are controlled by inflict­ing pain. in ‘Brave new world,’ they are controlled by inflicting pleasure. in short, orwell feared that what we fear will ruin us. huxley feared that our de­sire will ruin us.” 
it’s obvious postman believes both “Brave new world” and “1984” are two books that illustrate completely separate viewpoints on human nature and what may be holding mankind back. postman argues there is a difference between fear of “Big Brother” and a fear of indif­ference (or rather, preoccupation). my question to the readers is — a question i’d also like to contemplate further — are these two stories so different? are they as inseparable as postman makes them out to be? in 1991, a Times-mirror poll showed high school students at that time knew less, voted less, cared less and were less aware of current events than any other generation prior to that time. since then, pundits have describing the past 20-30 years as the “age of indifference” or the “age of apathy,” which definitely makes huxley’s argument all the more relevant. we can see all around us how so many are encompassed by angry Birds, what’s trending on Twitter, and other things some may consider “unim­portant.” For those who have seen the movie “supersize me,” should we be sur­prised by the scene in which the young children recognized ronald mcdonald better than george washington or Jesus christ?  

as far as orwell goes, i think it’s hard to argue against many of his points too. Throughout our lifetime, the united states government has engaged in many practices that worry all of those con­cerned about civil liberties, regardless of party lines. The patriot act, undeclared wars, the war on drugs, Tsa, excessive public surveillance, guantanamo Bay, indefinite military detentions of u.s. cit­izens and drone strikes all come to mind 
— and that’s no shortlist either. one only has to look to other countries like Turkey and china, who have censored the internet and other forms of speech, engaging in a metaphorical “book burn­ing,” as orwell would say; we can look to egypt and iran, who engage in a war on women. although some would ar­gue against his defense, we see what penalties whistleblowers like Bradley manning face from our justice system. But, the point is that it is an undeniable fact there is some censorship in our 
Goodbye, “The Office” 
can say no to being my friend.” words that come to mind are: sad, awkward, but very funny. 
a couple seasons later, Jim and pam get married and michael states it is one of the happiest moments of his life. an ar­gument could be made that the Jim and pam plotline played an equal role in the shows development — while i would not deny that, even their wedding pointed to michael’s desire for companionship. The tragedy was in the fact no matter who it was with — be it carol, Jan, or pam’s mom — true companionship for michael was as elusive as a cub’s world series. season after season the tragedy contin­ued. michael eventually found love in holly, only to have her torn away, then to have her come back a following season. 
when michael left “The office” he un­knowingly took the show’s identity with him. without the main catalyst, the writ­ers began searching for new storylines but failed to produce something genuine. andy was morphed into a self-centered, sometimes revenge-seeking boss, a surprising and unwelcomed change to the humorously ignorant, positive andy which returned after his successful “graduation” from anger management. also Toby, apparently not having anyone to cut him down frequently, has grown into a decidedly creepier character. however, none of these transgressions compare to the two biggest casualties of the post-michael era: Jim and pam’s relationship and the introduction of plot-engaged cameramen. it is hard for me to believe Jim and pam after years of flirting followed by marriage are al­ready at the point of marriage counseling after Jim began splitting time between scranton and philadelphia. in previous seasons we saw them endure a long dis­tance relationship while pam was at art school. Jim had in early seasons hinted at wanting to escape the confines of the office setting, yet it was also in these seasons when he was trying to get over the prospect of pam being married to roy. it seems his character wanted pam more than an escape to elsewhere, and now that things were going well with pam the writers felt the need to add a tension which should not reasonably be there. The continuing drama and pos­sibility of divorce seems like a slap in the face to those of us who watched Jim and pam throughout all of the years. Finally, the cheapest move made in this year’s season came when a boom-microphone operator intervened in the episode. since season two, viewers have been condi­tioned to view the documentary part of the show of negligible consequence. it is obvious nBc is trying to milk all of the ratings out of this as they can, but in doing so they have begun to tarnish country (obviously much more abroad) and there are things certain people out there don’t want you to know. 

in concluding this article, i’d again like to ask my readers: what is holding us back from making our society more free? was huxley right — do people just not care about these issues any­more? is it rational that we know more about notre dame football than about american history, geography or politi­cal discourse? on the other hand, is it just human nature to try to gain power and political influence, and then engage in censorship and surveillance to up­hold that position as orwell describes? unlike postman, i believe the ideas held by these two authors can possibly walk hand-in-hand — i’m not sure one is “right” and the other is “wrong” or that they are rivaled concepts defining mankind. But then again, maybe neither author correctly predicted where society is going — perhaps we are on a different path that is more “enlightened” than people give credit for. so, where are we going as a species? what do we have to look forward to in the future and how can we get there while upholding the personal freedoms that have made this country so great? i guess i’ll just form my own opinion on huxley and orwell based on whether or not people put down their iphones to read this — as­suming “Big Brother” doesn’t censor the article first. 
Connor Roth is a sophomore Economics major and Constitutional Studies minor and can be contacted at croth1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
and obscure what made the show worth watching in the first place. 
what made the show worth watch­ing in the first place was the laughter. michael’s departure also correlated to a departure of laughter, the obvious foun­dation for success of any comedy. 
after all this has been said though, here i am, still watching. ironically, the show itself best defines why there are roughly 3.5 million weekly view­ers. watching the past two seasons of “The office” as pam once said, “it’s like squishing a spider under a book. it’s gonna be really gross, but i have to look and make sure that it’s really dead.” maybe i’m watching just to see how bad or ‘gross’ the show is at its finish. more likely though, it is because of nostalgia, which “is truly one of the greatest human weaknesses … second only to the neck,” as said by dwight k. schrute. 
in closing, here’s hoping to a finale that doesn’t leave a stain on a truly great se­ries. consider this a reflection on the end of an era. goodbye, “The office.” 
Joel Kolb lives in St. Edward’s Hall and is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. He can be reached at jkolb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene writer 
B.o.B, or “Bobby ray,” is coming to south Bend. Tonight. as this year’s student union Board (suB) concert, hip-hop star B.o.B’s perfor­mance promises to be an en­ergetic and absolutely vibrant atmosphere in compton Family ice arena, with a no­holds-barred type of atti­
tude towards his passion. 
The southern grand 
hustle rapper has been 
through so much al­
ready in his relatively 
short career – so much 
struggle, so much 
role-reversal, and 
so much success. in 
seven years, B.o.B has 
tried to fit several rap 
stereotypes, from the 
“thuggish atlanta” with 
“haterz everywhere,” to 
his more natural niche of 
the quirky, atypical singer-
rapper that has propelled the B.o.B we know to fame as he produced the main­stream hit, “B.o.B presents: The adventures of Bobby ray.” This album which fea­tured the well-known singles, “Beautiful girls,” “don’t let me Fall,” “nothin’ on you,” and — of course — “magic.” 
however, obviously this wasn’t always the case. his success didn’t come to him overnight, as the man so elo­quently describes in his song “airplanes”: “Before it ever mattered what i had in my bank / yeah, back when i was try-in’ to get a tip at subway / and 

back when i was rappin’ for the hell of it.” Before he ‘made it,’ B.o.B battled through anonymity and hip-hop me­diocrity, where he released mixtape after mixtape just to gain a foothold in the hip-hop scene. as a matter of fact, two of his four mixtapes released voiced his own struggle for fame and recognition, as both were titled “hi! my name is B.o.B” and “who the F#*k is B.o.B?,” both released in 2008. in a year such as 2008 which was dominated by rappers and singers the likes of lil wayne and chris Brown, who could even begin to spare the tiniest bit of at­tention away from these musical powerhouses and direct it towards a relative no-name, B.o.B? 
yet B.o.B persevered. his own drive and distinguished musical style, which he admitted was heavi­ly influenced by “80’s music, techno, rock, funk, even doo-wop,” contin­ued to put his name out onto the music scene. it was from there that he gained his fame, notably marked by his inclusion in XXl’s freshman class of 2009, along with hip-hop standouts wale, asher roth, and charles hamilton. 
Before we knew it, his freshman debut album, “B.o.B presents: The adventures of Bobby ray,” was an absolute standout, so much so that even a casual listener such as myself could not help but hear the majority of the album from any – and seem­ingly every – radio station. 
and it’s not hard to understand why. he has a very versatile skill set of musical abilities, everything from rapper to crooner, which only helps to please a diverse audience. a quick youTube search of “B.o.B live performances” shows a large array of different performing styles, where B.o.B tenderly sings “don’t let me Fall” while strumming away on his guitar, and another with him absolutely vibing with the crowd in an emo­tional and strong live performance in “airplanes.” 
so, a multifaceted performance from B.o.B tonight, april 26th should not be too hard to imag­ine. even from the beginning, he’s had a knack for knowing how to approach each song – with it’s own respective style and ambi­ance – with the right amount of energy and passion. 
B.o.B performs tonight at compton Family ice center at 6:30. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By GABRIELA LESKUR 
scene writer 

although B.o.B always gets me bop­ping when he rolls around on my ipod, i don’t quite love him enough to shell out the dough for his concert this weekend. For those of you crazy kids, who, like me, don’t quite got the magic for B.o.B, you can mosey on over to dpac to see an opera. 
This weekend, notre dame will be performing Francis poulenc’s “dialogues des carmelites,” which is definitely worth seeing. although you may be looking at this article in horror, “who would sit through hours of people singing in a foreign lan­guage?” here are some reasons why you should get off your butt and go: 
Girls will love you 

That cutie over there in your csem, she so classy that she doesn’t scream classy, she just radiates it. she’s hum­ble, quiet and considerate, but you can tell she enjoys the finer things in life. one time, you two shared head­phones while working on a group project and she blasted italian arias with the pride usually reserved for Taylor swift fans. 
you’ve been meaning to ask her out on a date, but you think she deserves more than Burrito night at north dining hall. 
here comes your chance. slip into class all casual-like today or tomor­row and ask her about her plans for the weekend. you already know that she’s not going to B.o.B since the only genres on her playlists aren’t from this century. when she asks your plans, say you’re headed to the opera for extra credit in a class. invite her to join. she doesn’t need to know that the only extra credit you’re trying to get is brownie points in her eyes. 
Make it an event 
you and your friends weren’t in­vited to any formals this semester. honestly, you feel a little bummed. your sexy self isn’t used to not put­ting on a dress and heading to an syr every weekend. as you look at the new, beautiful formal dress you intended to wear, don’t mope. rise to the occasion. 

gather your friends, get all dolled up in your forlorn formal dresses and head on over to the opera. challenge yourselves to speak only in British ac­cents the entire evening and see how much of the French arias you can un­derstand without looking at the sub­titles. perhaps intermediate French one did teach you more than “ou est la bibliothèque?” 
Embrace your inner hipster 
you’re a cool cat and everybody knows it. never caught dead lis­tening to vampire weekend or The lumineers, kanye is the domi­nant artist flowing through your headphones. however, sometimes when no one is around, you listen to pavarotti—that italian tenor leg­end—to lull you to sleep or help you study. man, that man had a voice like honey. you’ll never admit it to your friends, but you simply love opera. you can’t get enough. 
The time has come, my dear friend, to embrace your inner hipster. Be true to yourself, no matter how many weird looks your friends give you. if they can’t embrace your inner opera-goer, they aren’t real friends anyway. 
An epic story 
Beyond all of these compelling reasons, this opera itself presents a really remarkable story with a lot of meaning. its story centers on an order of carmelite nuns during the French revolution. although they had once been praised and adored, the rebel­lious public at large now hates the nuns. a shy young woman, Blanche, joins the order just before the tide turns against the religious. The op­era follows Blanche and her sisters as they face the reality of the new France and the consequences of their faith. 
The show runs april 25, 26, 27, and 28. Thursday through saturday it opens at 7:30 p.m., and sunday the opera will begin at 2:30 p.m. in the decio mainstage Theatre, in the deBartolo performing arts center. 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu 


                  Andrew Gastelum  
editor in chief 
after waiting four years, it’s here. That alone made me nervous. after all, how could you possibly follow up “wolfgang amadeus phoenix” and do so not knowing if lead singer Thomas mars says “fallen” or “folded” in the hit single “1901?” 
The answer: Bring the energy, which is exactly what phoenix does with their latest release “Bankrupt!” 

since “wolfgang amadeus phoenix,” synths and rock have never sounded as good to me. still, “Bankrupt!” brings a more intimate, cozy feel, but the catchy melodies may even surpass that of “wolfgang amadeus phoenix.” 
The album kicks off with the album’s only single and most phoenix-of-old sounding song, the buzzing “entertainment.” But from there, the album and band take an entirely new turn and head for uncharted waters. 
humming, catchy synths fight past the guitar-groove-dominat­ed past for phoenix to succeed beyond all belief or expectation. 
To be fair, it’s not the same phoenix. But the group goes in a different direction and it pays off entirely. 
if you don’t believe me, check out the ever-so catchy “Trying to be cool,” a feel-good song with sing­along synths and one of the most well crafted Thomas mars hooks to date. 
and “chloroform” adds some unique color to the album with a bass backbeat and lurking synth harmonies that is sure to have you rocking back and forth. meanwhile, “The real Thing” and “drakkar noir” take the layered complexity of “wolfgang amadeus phoenix,” the cover-to-cover en­ergy of “it’s never Been like That,” and the bounce-along groove of “if iever Feel Better” to show the com­plete, arching growth of the band. 

“Bankrupt!” delivers everything phoenix fans love about the band, with some new twists. There may not be a“1901.” with kobe Bryant superstar status, but the album truly excels with all-star perfor­mances across the board. 


“Bankrupt! ” 
Artist: Phoenix Record Label: V2 Genre:  Alternative Rock, Synthpop 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Maddon teaches new leadership 

Andrew Gastelum 
editor-in-chief 
i’ve always had a soft spot for the dude who just likes to have fun and shoot the you-know-what without a worry. 
so naturally, Tampa Bay rays manager Joe maddon is one of my favorite coaches of all-time. 
maybe it’s the fact that he has mad spec-swag — have you seen his assortment of glasses? or maybe it’s because he comes from a family of italian immigrants — his last name was changed from maddoni and he’s a connoisseur of fine wines. But it might be just because he got his break in southern california — he was in­terim manager of the california/ anaheim/los angeles angels of kalamazoo twice. 
But now i’ve actually learned why. when his team slogged its way through a painstaking 2-7 road trip, maddon brought the fun back into the clubhouse. and by fun, i mean penguins, cockatiels, local magicians and dJ Fresh. 
he just wanted to keep his team loose, fresh and give them just a second of respite from the depths and daggers of mental stress and internal critique. sure it’s silly of maddon, but self-depreciating hu­mor is the greatest, most selfless kind. making those around you feel better about themselves by laughing is innocuous and warm. 
it’s one atypical sign of a good leader, and a guy who just plain likes to have a ball while his team tries to hit one out of the park. 
For maddon, every second his team spent laughing was a sec­ond not spent in deep thought and self-critique of what they could possibly do to swing things around. 
it also helps to look back and see his team has gone 5-1 since the addition of his antics. 
But what happens when things don’t go right, when the tides and the tables can’t be turned and an attempt at liveliness becomes the last gasp? 
in sports, especially, that could be your final move. a leader is nothing without the reciprocated support of his or her team, and we’ve seen where the loyalties of front offices and most fans lie. 
remember the legendary Jerry sloan? six division titles, two nBa Finals appearances and 2,024 wins couldn’t keep deron williams from getting the best of him and his job. 
Five hundred wins wearing a red sox uniform and break­ing the curse of the Bambino with not one, not five, not six, not seven, but two world series rings couldn’t help Terry Francona. he lost control of the clubhouse in 2011 and lost his lineup card soon after. 
regardless of the accomplish­ments you’ve notched in any leadership position, the people around you always determine your fate. it’s a rather dreary way of thinking, but you can also think of it in terms of caring for the people whose job it is to care about what they do for you. as a leader, if you don’t genuinely care about these people then you shouldn’t be in the position to start. 
in general, leaders don’t have to have the fiery temper of a lou piniella or the intimidation of a Bob knight to be respected. Because here, there is always a divide in the connection and bond one can form with those around him or her. it’s safe to be distant and feared in order to gain respect, but it may not always be what’s best. 
But the hard-nosed, rigid Bobby valentine replaced Francona in Boston with his stubborn my-way-or-the-highway mentality, which resulted in one of the big­gest blemishes in recent red sox memory. 
sometimes as a leader, you gain more respect for the compas­sion, work ethic and humility you show those around you than for the callous, authoritarian pedes­tal and the ego that comes with it. determination and energy are contagious, and inspiration combined with friendship is a thoughtlessly thoughtful gift that can never fail. 
it’s sad that exuberance, com­passion and empathy can be perceived as a weakness, but Joe maddon has proven that it works itself out in the end. 
There will always be the detrac­tors, the haters, the ones to whom you give your loyalty, who turn and spit venom to others while you put forth your fullest effort. 
it’s as if doing the right thing wasn’t enough motivation, as if you needed some other incentive to prove what you can really do. 
But that’s part of the veiled splendor of sports. There is al­ways a winner and a loser, a win column and a loss column and a statistic to prove any point. 
sure, in simple normalcy, there isn’t a win column and a loss col­umn or a hall of Fame to show your worth. But there is always a caring team around, given you were always there for them. and no matter what anyone else can try to do, they will always be there to carry you along and make it all worth it. 
Therein lies the win column of leadership, and the hall of Fame of an unbroken bond. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ROWING 

Irish travel south to Bloomington for Cup 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 

after a successful perfor­mance at the lake natoma invitational last week, this weekend the irish head to Bloomington, ind. for the dale england cup. 
The no. 12 irish are ready to get back on the water and race again, junior molly Bruggeman said. 
“coming off a great weekend in california, i think the team has some momentum going into racing,” Bruggeman said. “we had a successful weekend on the west coast and now we’re ready to get back on the water after about a week away from it.” 
The irish finished the lake natoma invitational in a third place tie with no. 9 stanford. The irish landed just two points behind no. 1 usc and one point behind no. 2 california. even though the irish had a strong finish at the competition, the team is still looking to improve, Bruggeman said. 
“we always look to improve on every race we have and each racing experience gives us an­other chance to see what we can do,” Bruggeman said. 
improvement takes practice, though, and Bruggeman said the st. Joe’s river’s conditions have impeded the team’s prac­tice schedule. 
“unfortunately the river has been abnormally high this week and we haven’t been able to go out since we finished racing on sunday,” Bruggeman said. 
despite the unfortunate con­ditions, the irish have found alternative ways to prepare for the regatta this weekend, Bruggeman said. 
“we have been working out on the ergometer or rowing ma­chines and relying on previous weeks of training to prepare us for this weekend,” Bruggeman said. 
with the season coming to an end, the irish have sighted the Big east championship on the horizon. The conference title will be up for grabs in mercer county, n.J. on may 19. 
with this in mind, the irish are looking forward to the great competition they are to face in the upcoming weeks, Bruggeman said. 
“The team is excited to finish the regular season strong, and we hope it pays off by earning ourselves a bid to the ncaas,” Bruggeman said. 
Before looking that far ahead, the team still has races to worry about this weekend. 
“This weekend is an oppor­tunity for three more races in which we can learn from,” Bruggeman said. 
The irish get back on the wa­ter at the dale england cup in Bloomington, ind. on Friday and saturday. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles take on kalamazoo with playoffs on the line 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 

saturday marks the end of the regular season for the Belles, who will travel to michigan to face kalamazoo in a conference showdown with major postsea­son implications. 
kalamazoo (11-7, 6-1 miaa) currently holds second place in the miaa conference. saint mary’s (10-7, 4-3 miaa) sits in fourth place, the last spot that can qualify for the upcom­ing miaa tournament. a loss saturday would drop saint mary’s to 4-4 in the conference and force a tie with calvin for fourth. a win sends the Belles to the tournament. 
coach dale campbell said that the Belles know making the tournament is still a possibility despite wednesday’s 5-4 loss to calvin, but the team can’t focus 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more 
on the tournament yet. 
“can’t look ahead, just know in the back of your mind that it is possible,” campbell said. 
despite the temptation to look ahead to the tournament, campbell expressed confidence his players would be able to maintain the right mentality on saturday. 
“Tennis players are taught to keep their eyes on the ball and play the next shot, that simple, one moment at a time,” campbell said. 
The Belles last defeated kalamazoo in 2008 when the Belles qualified for the miaa tournament by finishing fourth. since then, saint mary’s has struggled against the hornets, most recently suffering a 6-3 loss in 2012. 
“They are very tough in singles and seem to be growing in dou­bles, so we will have to bring our best game,” campbell said. 
To succeed in playing to their potential, the Belles will have to be aggressive, according to campbell. This is a refrain he has repeated often this season. For singles, campbell encouraged a more calculated strategy. 
“[it’s] being aggressive in dou­bles, patient and figuring out how to create openings in sin­gles,” campbell said. 
although saint mary’s has goals and a game plan, campbell said he wanted to avoid having too many expectations. 
“no expectations, just play your best, pull out the win and you make the tournament,” campbell said. 
saint mary’s will try to secure a spot in the miaa tournament at kalamazoo on saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
information,  visit  ND’s  website  at:  Available  May  1st.  Clean  2BR  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  1BA.  Garage  and  fenced  yard.  
FOR RENT  1326 E. Chalfant St. $675/mo Call 574-340-6789  

1 BR furnished apt with utilities. 

Grad student in Chicago looking to $550/mo + deposit. Near airport. share 2BR/2Bath apartment in South 574-233-3565 Loop near Prairie/15th streets - $800/ mo.Contact: kallsop@ciber.com 


SMC SOFTBALL | smc 10, kalamaZoo 3; smc 5, kalamaZoo 4 SMC GOLF 
Belles sweep Kalamazoo pollak, heffernan 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports writer 
The Belles swept miaa conference opponent kalamazoo at home this Thursday to hold their spot in the top three of the miaa conference. 
The Belles (19-13, 9-3 miaa) beat kalamazoo (5-17, 2-12 miaa) 10-3 in the first game and 5-4 in the second game. 
coach erin sullivan said the Belles took advantage of their home-field advan­tage. The Belles are now 12-2 at home, and sullivan said the fans and field aided the team in their win against kalamazoo Thursday. 
Junior pitcher callie selner helped the Belles to notch the win by making her mark on the mound and in the lineup. selner went 4-for-4 in game one and hit a home run. 
Freshman center fielder Jillian Busfield from riley high school shined, as well. she hit her tenth homerun of the season, tying the single season homerun record at saint mary’s. 
although the Belles domi­nated, sullivan said there are always ways to improve. 
“we hit well but we should have had stronger hits,” sullivan said. “The pitch­ers for kalamazoo were not strong and we were over-swinging and way ahead of many pitches. we did bunt well, though.” 

sullivan said the Belles also needed to make more routine plays and to improve consis­tency at the plate for their upcoming games against important miaa conference opponents. 
regardless of their flaws, sullivan said the Belles will certainly be hard to beat in the tournament if they play their best in the next couple of games. 
saint mary’s will make up wednesday’s postponed game against Trine (29-3, 12-0 miaa) today. Trine is currently first in the miaa 

lead chase of olivet 
conference and was the 2012 conference champion in 2012. The Belles will then face alma on saturday at 2 
p.m. in alma, mich. 
sullivan said the Belles’ chances of getting into the miaa conference tourna­ment are good, no matter what results they get in the next few games. 
“if hope gets swept tomor­row by alma we will be in the tournament no matter how our last four games go,” sullivan said. 

The Belles will travel to angola, ind., today to play Trine. GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 
Belles senior Jessica Kinnick watches the flight of her shot in the first Contact Meredith Kelly at round of the MIAA NCAA qualifier on April 17 at Blackthorn Golf Course. 

paid adverTisemenT 


sports writer 
saint mary’s needs to close the gap with olivet this weekend after finishing the opening round of the miaa ncaa qualifier in second place wednesday, 23 strokes behind opening day leader olivet. 
The Belles are looking for a strong performance out of junior paige pollak, who has sole possession of fourth place after shooting an 84 in the first round. 
sophomore Janice heffernan, who was second on the team in scoring aver­age before the tournament began, will look to improve on her first-round score of 95, easily her roughest outing of the year. 
no matter how well pollak or heffernan plays, the Belles will likely need some help from olivet. Their trio of season all-miaa team mem­bers finished 1-2-3 in the first qualifier, headlined by 
mkelly29@nd.edu 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
medalist adrienne plourde’s four-over-par 76. 
despite the comets’ domi­nating performance, Belles coach Jason kolean said the Belles aren’t worried about how well the comets are play­ing. instead, saint mary’s plans to focus solely on “im­proving on our past perfor­mances,” she said. 
“The girls have really pushed themselves this week,” kolean said. “we have continued to work on each aspect of the game.” 
hope and calvin round out the rest of the field, trailing olivet by 31 and 40 strokes, respectively. 
The second and third miaa ncaa qualifying rounds will be hosted by olivet on Friday and saturday at the medalist golf club in marshall, mich. The team with the lowest av­erage score from the three qualifiers will earn the auto­matic ncaa berth. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 



The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

TRACK & FIELD 

Athletes compete for Big East ticket 
MEN’S GOLF 

irish try to redeem season 

By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
notre dame will tee off in its last tournament of the sea­son sunday with the Big east championship in orlando, Florida. 
The irish are coming off an 11th place finish (310-292-299) in the hawkeye invitational in iowa city, iowa on april 13 and 
14. while the final results from that weekend may not have been stellar, there were some signs of improvement from the irish.  Freshman corey sciupider tied the best round of his young college career, shoot­ing a 67, a tournament low. he finished the weekend in 21st place. while he didn’t to match that score in the first or third round, when he shot an 80 and 76, respectively, irish coach Jim kubinski said he is confident the young golfer has the skill to replicate his performance. 
“with corey, he has been a little bit up and down, he shows you brilliant play … but he needs to develop emotional maturity,” kubinski said. “he’s going to get better at that. with his talent, boy, he has a high ceiling at this game.” 
sciupider is not the only young golfer kubinski praised. Freshman Zach Toste played himself into the starting lineup with a strong week of practice, replacing sophomore Tyler wingo. 
“Toste shot a couple 69s over the weekend… and won his spot for the week,” kubinski said. “we’ve seen quite a few guys step up and play some good rounds in practice.” 
Juniors andrew lane and niall platt and senior paul mcnamara comprise the rest of the irish Big east lineup. kubinski praised their golfing in practice the last few weeks, but now hopes to see that suc­cess translate into tournament play. 
“i feel like we’ve had more consistent play, and from a va­riety of guys, not just he top few,” kubinski said. “we’ll see this weekend if what we see [in practice] is … coming into form. But i believe it, we’re get­ting better, and we’re excited.” 
while the Big east is not known as a powerhouse golf conference and has no teams in the current ncaa top-25, the irish will still be challenged. notre dame will be paired with louisville and south Florida for opening day tee times. despite the bigger stage, kubinski isn’t worried about his players’ abil­ity to manage nerves, because he said he believes the event offers much more potential re­ward than risk. 
“i don’t feel we need to do anything extra for it. we’re look­ing at it as a great opportunity for us,” kubinski said. “it can kind of, honestly, help redeem our season. so we feel good.” 
The irish will tee off at 10:30 
a.m.  sunday in orlando, Florida on the watson course at reunion resort. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
For the last meet of the regu­lar season, the irish will once again split up their squad. Forty-six athletes will head to hillsdale, mich., to compete at the hillsdale college gina relays, while 24 others will travel to des moines, iowa, for the famous drake relays, one of the most prestigious meets in the midwest. 
with the Big east confer­ence championship just a week away, the hillsdale relays will give irish athletes who have not yet qualified for the champion­ship one last chance. 
“hillsdale is a little more lo­cal, and it’s a chance for as many people as possible to qualify for Big east [champion­ships],” junior long jumper and captain logan renwick said. “drake is a little more difficult to get into, so hillsdale pro­vides more chances for more people.” 
hillsdale also offers a de­cathlon for senior Ted glasnow, who is coming off a career performance at the california invitational last week, where he cracked 7,000 points for the first time. glasnow, who finished third last year at the conference championship, leads the irish multi-eventers, including se­nior dean odegard. 
all of the irish athletes com­peting at the drake relays have already qualified for the Big east championship. For them, the meet is a chance to partici­pate in a championship-like at­mosphere and take on the best competition on their schedule. 
“it’s one of the biggest meets of the year,” renwick said. “not only is there great collegiate competition, but there are also lots of professionals. i’m going up against the olympic gold medalist in the triple jump. it’s very exciting. it’s a great tradi­tion to come here year after year. There’s a lot of history at this meet.” 
The irish distance squad will be out in full force in des moines, led by senior Jeremy rae, who ran the seventh best time in the country for the 1500 meter (3:41.45) last week at the mt. sac relays. Joining him will be senior rebecca Tracy, who is currently ranked no. 12 in the country in the 1500 meter. The irish also entered several relays in which they have had success in the past. 
“our men’s 4x[1600] has a great history here [at drake],” renwick said. “we won [three] in a row from [2006-2008] so we’d like to get that started again. our women are the de­fending 4x800 meter cham­pions, and both of our 4x400 meter relays are among the premier teams in the country. we’d like all of those teams to bring home titles to build con­fidence going into the confer­ence championship.” 

The irish have high hopes for the conference championship, with the women looking to de­fend their indoor title, while the 

“[Drake] is one of the biggest meets 
of the year. Not 
only is there lots 
of great collegiate 
competition, 
but there are 
also lots of of 
professionals.” 
Logan Renwick 
junior captain 

men hope to avenge their loss to connecticut at the indoor championships and defend their outdoor title. 
“our goal has been to win the Big east from day one, for both men and women. on the men’s side, most of the injuries we had during indoor have healed so we feel pretty confident that we can win. it’s the last Big east conference championship for us, so there’s a little more at stake. we really want to win it and go out on top.” 
The irish compete this week­end at the hillsdale college gina relays at hillsdale, mich., and the drake relays in des moines, iowa. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu  

paid adverTisemenT 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

waldrum’s team faces haiti 
ND SOFTBALL 

ND puts nine-game win streak on line in Chicago 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
The irish hit the road this weekend to put their nine-game winning streak to the test as they face local Big east rival depaul in a three-game weekend series. notre dame (35-10, 15-1 Big east) will carry momentum from its last game, an 11-1 victory over connecticut that marked the 500th career win for irish coach deanna gumpf 
“as a team we have found what we need to do in order to win,” senior pitcher Brittany o’donnell said. “we discov­ered the team’s key to success and we are going to keep roll­ing with that.” 
Junior pitcher laura winter and o’donnell will contin­ue to lead the squad on the mound, preventing hits and controlling the game defen­sively. winter earned the ti­tle of usa softball national collegiate player of the week earlier this week for her ef­forts in the recent irish run. 

The award, announced by the amateur softball association (asa) of america and usa softball, has never previously gone to a notre dame player. 
at the plate, a deep irish roster has fueled the squad 
during  its  winning  streak.  
sophomore  catcher  cassidy  
whidden,  senior  catcher  

amy Buntin, junior out­fielder lauren stuhr, junior infielder chloe saganowich, sophomore outfielder emilee koerner, sophomore infielder katey haus, freshman out­fielder casey africano, winter and sophomore infielder Jenna simon have all been key in driving the irish offense to nine straight wins. 
“going into this weekend at depaul we need to remember to take care of the small de­tails,” Buntin said. “when the momentum shifts to the other team we need to find a way to quickly get on too again.” 
The irish offense will chal­lenge junior left-handed pitch­er kirsten verdun, a 2012 nFca second Team all-american, who leads the Blue demons (26-16, 13-3) on the mound. her performance wednesday led depaul to a sweep on the road against fellow Big east squad st. John’s. 
offensively, the Blue demons look to junior short­stop allie Braden and soph­omore outfielder megan coronado. Braden contrib­uted four rBis and four runs and coronado added two rBis and three runs to the double­header against st. John’s. 
“going into depaul we are going to keep working on our fundamentals both offensive­ly and defensively,” o’donnell said. “if we focus and celebrate the small things then the big plays and victories will build from them.” 
The first game will begin at 1 p.m. saturday afternoon at cacciatore stadium, followed by a 3 p.m. first pitch that same day. The squads will face off again sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame’s challenging and diverse spring schedule comes to an end today, as the irish take on the haiti national team at 
paid adverTisemenT 



alumni stadium. 
The irish have played several friendlies and scrimmages over the course of the last month. 
on april 3, notre dame fell 4-1 to the chicago red stars of the national women’s soccer league, a professional league that began play earlier this month. irish senior midfield­er mandy laddish scored in the 58th minute, but it wasn’t enough to overcome the two first-half goals from red stars forward and 2011 notre dame graduate lauren Fowlkes. 
Two days later, the irish topped the mexico under-20 national team, 4-3, on a stop-page-time goal by sophomore defender cari roccaro. Junior forward karin simonian, soph­omore defender katie naughton and sophomore forward crystal Thomas added goals in the match. 
notre dame’s spring schedule has also included scrimmages against michigan state, iowa, ipFw and grand valley state. 
Tonight, the irish are set to play the haiti national team, which is ranked no. 58 in the latest FiFa/coca-cola women’s world rankings. 
haiti has spent the last few weeks training and playing friendlies at different sites across indiana in preparation for next year’s concacaF women’s world cup qualifier, which will determine the teams for the 2015 women’s world cup. The team played at alumni stadium on april 3, dropping a 1-0 match to the mexico under-20 team. 
shek Borkowski is the coach of the haiti national team. Borkowski also serves as the coach for Fc indiana, a second-tier professional team that plays in the women’s premier soccer league. 
notre dame and haiti will kick off at 5 p.m. tonight at alumni stadium. 



The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
BASEBALL 

irish return to Big east play against huskies 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
The irish look to extend their re­cent success against non-confer­ence opponents this weekend when they take their first conference rival in five games. notre dame has won four out of its past five games, but all five were against non-conference opponents. 
This weekend, the irish (23-16, 4-8 Big east) take on conference rival connecticut (25-16, 8-7 Big east) in a three-game series. 
in the Big east, the irish are in the bottom half of the field at four games under .500. notre dame is in ninth place in the Big east out of 11 teams, while the huskies are sitting in the fifth spot. irish manager mik aoki said it is imperative that the team captures this series against connecticut in order to make up ground before the Big east tourna­ment and place themselves in a position to make the ncaa tourna­ment field. 
“i think every single game — Big east and non-conference — in the last 15 is critically important to get to the Big east Tournament and to get an at-large bid for the national tour­nament,” aoki said. “we are playing playoff baseball for the remainder of the year. This season we eliminated our margin of error. i’m not saying we need to go 15-0, but we need to be pretty darn close to 10-5 or 11-4 to give us a chance in conference and nationally.” 
The huskies’ tough starting rota­tion will be a challenge for the irish. The huskies will send two junior southpaws, anthony marzi (3-4) and Brian ward (2-3), and redshirt sophomore right-hander carson cross (6-2). cross leads the pitching staff with a 1.50 era and 65 strike­outs in 72.0 innings of work. 
“all of their pitchers are pretty solid,” aoki said.  “They have done a good job there. cross is a good fast­ball-change guy. right now [marzi] just has a tough luck record. last year he was great. uconn has two strengths, and one of their strengths would lie in their pitching.” 
connecticut’s other strength is their base running. The huskies have attempted to steal 119 times already this season and have been successful in 93 of those attempts, a 78-percent success rate. The offense is lead by senior lJ mazzilli, who is hitting .329 with 56 hits and 34 rBi, but aoki said the huskies really be­come dangerous once they get on the base paths. 
“The have great overall team speed,” aoki said. “They are always aggressive on the bases. They are not a prolific hitting team, they have a couple of guys who can hit, like mazzilli, but we will need to control the runners on base.” 
aoki said connecticut plays much like louisville, a team that swept the irish in a three-game se­ries at the end of march. he added that the pitchers will need to mix up their timing in order for this not to happen again against uconn. 
“we can’t fall into a pattern, we have to do different things and still deliver the ball to the plate in a time­ly manner,” aoki said. “like every­thing else in baseball, it starts with the pitcher, so our pitchers need to dictate the tempo.” 
an early lead could be key for the irish against the huskies. . notre dame is 16-2 when scoring first and is 11-2 when it scores in the first in­ning. on the flip side, notre dame is 7-14 when the other team scores first and 2-8 when the other team scores in the first inning. 
“if we play well like we did [wednesday] or early in season, i think we can beat anyone,” aoki said. 
The irish look to gain ground against connecticut, playing at 
5:35 p.m. Friday, 2:05 p.m. saturday and 1:05 p.m. sunday at Frank eck stadium. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu  
ND SOFTBALL 

ND faces young Marquette 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
with its postseason status still up in the air, no. 10 notre dame will close out its regular season against marquette on saturday at arlotta stadium. 
The irish (11-4, 5-3 Big easT) have dropped their last three games, falling to no. 5 syracuse and no. 16 connecticut over the weekend and no. 4 northwestern on wednesday night. 

despite notre dame’s recent struggles, irish coach christine halfpenny said she was im­pressed with the way her team battled back against the peren­nially strong wildcats (14-2, 4-1 american lacrosse conference) per game. still, halfpenny said lost control of whether or not on wednesday. down 9-4 with 22 marquette has much potential and we’re in the Big east last sunday,” minutes to go, notre dame scored will be looking to cap off its first halfpenny said. “we moved for-four of the game’s last five goals to season with a signature win. ward, and we’re going to control cut the final deficit to two. “The beauty about the youthful-things we can control and that is 
“i’m actually really proud of ness of marquette’s team is their saturday’s game.” my team’s effort [wednesday] naïve bliss, and they’re going to go with the regular season coming night and our will to compete,” for [a win],” halfpenny said. “we to a close saturday, notre dame halfpenny said. “winning the have no doubt in our mind that will honor its seven seniors in a draw battle against a team that’s they want to finish this inaugural pregame ceremony before it takes very good at the draw was a huge season the way they want to start the field against marquette. The thing for us and being able to next season, so [saturday’s game] team’s seniors are goalkeepers cause 12 turnovers against a really is the best opportunity for a huge ellie hilling and adele Bruggeman, good, championship-caliber team statement for them.” defender emily connor, mid­[makes] us pretty excited about as regular season play comes to fielder mckenzie Brown and at-what we need to do.” an end, notre dame is unsure of tackers Betsy mastropieri, Jaimie 
going forward, the irish need what its next step will be. sitting at morrison and Jenny granger, to work on continuing to gener-5-3 in the conference, the irish will who also serves as the team’s ate offensive opportunities, win only make next week’s four-team co-captain. draw controls and limit turnovers, Big east tournament if they win halfpenny said this year’s senior halfpenny said. saturday and no. 7 georgetown class has really made an impact 
“we really want to build off those loses both of its games this week-during its time at notre dame. scoring opportunities, working end. The hoyas (11-3, 5-1) will play “[The seniors] have done a lot for the best scoring opportunities connecticut (13-1, 5-1) today and for notre dame over the course of against marquette,” she said. “[we syracuse (12-3, 6-0) on sunday. their careers,” she said. “They’ve want to continue] on our amazing with an rpi of 10, notre dame definitely put their name in the re-tenacity on the draw and limit our has a good shot at receiving an cord books in the last two seasons turnovers, which is going to be a at-large bid to the 26-team ncaa with great starts as well as closing key for this young team.” tournament, which begins may 10. gaps on some good teams in the 
notre dame will look to put halfpenny said the possible country. we’re excited to honor these objectives into practice postseason scenarios haven’t dis-each and every one of them.” saturday when it hosts marquette tracted her team, understanding it notre dame and marquette will (2-14). has limited control over its confer-play saturday at 1 p.m. at arlotta 
The golden eagles have strug-ence tournament fate. stadium. gled in their inaugural season of “There’s no sense in being dis-lacrosse, losing their last 12 con-tracted over things you can’t Contact Brian Hartnett at tests and averaging only 6.25 goals control, and unfortunately we bhartnet@nd.edu 






MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish test skills against Mexican U-20 squad 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
exactly one month ago, for­mer irish all-american defender matt Besler squared off against mexican striker Javier “chicharito” hernández when the united states battled mexico to a 0-0 draw in a pivotal world cup qualifier. 
But in 2007, nearly six years before they faced off at azteca stadium, Besler and hernandez took to the pitch at alumni stadium, where the irish defeated the under-20 mexican national team 1-0. 
on Friday night, notre dame will conclude its eight-game spring slate with another match-up against the mexican under-20 squad at alumni stadium. 
hernandez, who is now coached by sir alex Ferguson at legendary english club manchester united, was reminded of that 2007 loss by his skipper, who also coached irish head coach Bobby clark at aberdeen F.c., in the scottish premier league. clark, who has a photo of hernandez in that 2007 match sitting in his office, said he sent a copy to the striker by way of Ferguson. 
“it’s funny, i actually sent a copy of the photo to alex Ferguson. i said [to Ferguson], ‘make sure you give this to Javier hernandez and just remind him that notre dame actually won the game 1-0,’” clark said with a laugh. 
in fact, the irish have played host to a mexican national team seven times in the last eight years, with notre dame leading the ex­hibition series 4-2-1. however, the series, which came about through irish women’s soccer head coach randy waldrum and his con­nection to the head coach of the mexico women’s national team, leo cuéllar, has been controlled in recent years by mexico. The two irish losses — both one-goal defeats — came in 2011 and 2012. This year’s mexican outfit, mean­while, is gearing up for June’s FiFa under-20 world cup in Turkey. 
“This will be the best team we’ll play all year,” clark said. “They’re gearing up for the world cup in Turkey so this is an important game for them also. … They’re possibly one of the favorites [in Turkey]. … i think this is the best mexican under-20 team we will have played. They’re very, very good. They’re just a fantastic soc­cer team.” 
clark had a fantastic squad last season, as the irish rolled to a 17­4-1 record and the no.1 overall seed in the ncaa tournament. But notre dame, who fell to eventual national champion indiana, 2-1, in double overtime in the third round of the tournament, must replace a pair of 2012 first-team all-americans in midfielder dillon powers and forward ryan Finley. given the new-look notre dame unit and mexico’s prowess, clark said he truly does not know how the irish will stack up Friday. 
“honestly, i don’t really know,” clark said. “This will be a good test. This is like, i always say, they’ll all be tests along the line. every week we play a game on the weekend in the spring and we use it as a test to see where we are. There’s no ques­tion that this is the toughest test, we could say it’s the finals — it’s coming up to finals week so basi­cally this is our soccer final. 
“and this will give us a good guide of what we’re going to do and where we are as a team. The score will be important tomorrow night but i’m much more interested to see how we handle a game of this magnitude.” 
over the years the match has been well attended, especially by locals from northern indiana. clark acknowledged that at times it feels like an away game at home for the irish, but he sees no reason 
paid adverTisemenT 


the notre dame student body shouldn’t outnumber mexico’s faithful. 
“There’s no reason it should be that way,” clark said. “This is a game our students should come out and support the u.s.a. it’s a great game to begin with but it’s also a fantastic opportunity to support the us. i think that’s huge. There’s no reason we should be outnumbered in our own house.” 
The irish face off with mexico on Friday at 7:30 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 


Edwards 
conTinued From page 20 
no. 1,” edwards said. “everyone knows us. i don’t know how, but they know us.” 
however, most Bookstore fans remember edwards and the rest of his team — sophomore holy cross basketball players Zoe Bauer, george stainko and darrell mcintyre, along with notre dame sports properties employee Beau Bauer — as hoops i did it again, not sophomores at holy cross. edwards said their new name not only reflects their cur­rent academic status, but also their desire for a fresh start in this year’s tournament. 
“it’s a new year,” he said. “we’re trying to get another champion­ship … so we’re just trying to do something new this year and try­ing to repeat.” 
The team on the other side of the bracket, no. 2 romeo medical clinic, will certainly try to thwart sophomores of holy cross’ hopes of another championship title. 
after falling to hoops idid it again in the Final Four last year, notre dame juniors Tom hickey and Tyler sonsalla decided to regroup in hopes of making another run at a title. They found fellow juniors dominic romeo, Jack gardner, Tim Fulnecky and kevin Timperman, who were looking for a few more players to round out their own squad, and formed the team that is now romeo medical clinic. 
Though they still compete with their eyes on the prize, romeo said his team is enjoying the ride as they progress round by round. 
“it’s been great,” he said. “we’ve had a lot of support from all our fans, from each other, and from romeo medical clinic, with doc­
tors  mike  romeo,  sam  romeo,  
chris  hawley  and  ken  honsik,  
back at home.”  

romeo said his team also rel­ishes the opportunity to play in the nation’s largest basketball tourna­ment and being a part of all the competition that comes with it. romeo medical clinic has faced tough competition in its past two games against teams with former notre dame basketball players Jack cooley and mike Broghammer 
— although cooley did not play against romeo medical clinic. 
“[The best part is] getting to play strong, competitive basketball,” he said. “once you leave high school, it’s kind of like your glory days are over. here we get another shot at those glory days, which is really, re­ally fun.” 
with the speed and chem­istry of sophomores at holy cross up against the size and strength of romeo medical clinic, the Bookstore Basketball championship will be an exciting affair. 
The final step in the quest for the 2013 Bookstore Basketball title be­gins saturday at 7 p.m. at the book­store courts. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu. 
Syracuse 
conTinued From page 20 

The irish have yet to drop a game on the road, and they remain 1-0 in neutral-site games. Their first and only game at a neutral site came against marquette at loyola academy in wilmette, ill., on april 2. The irish won that game 17-5. 
“at the end of the day, it’s another game against a top-10 team,” corrigan said. “it’s certainly going to mean a lot to us for seeding in the postseason. There’s a lot involved in this game for us.” 
with both notre dame and syracuse heading to the acc from the Big east next year, the irish and the orange represent a bud­ding rivalry. 
“we’ll be able to continue what we hope has become a rivalry,” corrigan said. “we didn’t beat them until last year. it’s not a rivalry if one team wins all the time. we hope that we’re establish­ing a rivalry with them and i look forward to that ex­tending into the acc next year.” 
The irish and the orange will face off at 6:30 p.m. at metlife stadium on saturday. The game will be televised on espnu. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Sophomores 
conTinued From page 20 
and never relinquished that lead the entire game. They dominated the first half, lead­ing 11-5 at the break. d.g.p. clearly showed its frustration, as it was assessed a technical foul midway through the first half after shoving sophomores at holy cross’ Beau Bauer. Bauer and holy cross sopho­more darrell mcintyre led the team in scoring in the first half, each contributing three points. 
defensively, edwards said the key was constant motion to tire out the bigger and older d.g.p. 
“we just kept moving,” edwards said. “[The goal was to] get the bigs out of the paint. They were slow so we just had to find a way to get them out of the paint.” 
The chippy play continued in the second half, prompting 
d.g.p.
 big man chris stewart to plead, “no white on white crime” after Bauer and second year law student Brian pasciak got tangled up fighting for a rebound. 

d.g.p.
 never quit though, and fought back in the sec­ond half, cutting sophomores at holy cross’ lead to 17-14. however, it was too little too late for d.g.p., as Bauer sunk a jumper from behind the arc to seal the win for sophomores at holy cross. 


with the win, the dream of winning back-to-back cham­pionships is now closer than ever. 
“it would mean a lot, we work hard out here,” edwards said. “it would just be a good feeling, that’s all.” 
despite all the success, mcintyre still sees room for improvement for his squad. 
“we need to stop settling for jump shots and make our free throws,” mcintyre said. 
sophomores at holy cross will look to defend its title against romeo medical clinic on saturday night at 7 p.m. in the Bookstore Basketball championship game. 
No. 2 Romeo Medical Clinic 21, No. 3 Team 3 15 
in a back-and-forth battle all the way until the end, no. 2 romeo medical clinic de­feated no. 3 Team 3 to advance to the championship game. Junior dom romeo credited the win to defense and a strong second half. 
“we really played together well as a unit,” romeo said. “in the second half we came out and played great team defense. The second half was the dif­ference. we came out, played physical defense, started mov­ing on offense, and we passed the ball really well. That ulti­mately was the difference.” 
romeo medical clinic jumped out to a quick 5-2 lead before Team 3 found its shot and came back from the early deficit to take a 7-6 lead. Team 3 exhibited impressive shoot­ing ability off the dribble, and paired that with phenomenal defense led by senior and for­mer irish basketball player mike Broghammer to take an 11-10 lead into the half. 
romeo medical clinic came out flying in the second half, aided by a few friendly tip-ins by junior Tom hickey and several key jump shots by ju­niors Tim Fulnecky and Jack gardner. 
“[it was a] strong team ef­fort,” junior Tom hickey said. “Jump shots by Tim Fulnecky really opened up their zone. Jack gardner hit some huge shots; he really came to play today. Tim Fulnecky and Jack gardner were the key in this game, they came up huge.” 
all game long romeo medical clinic refused to allow big-man mike Broghammer to factor into the game, limiting him to just two points and two blocks. hickey said the team planned all along on taking Broghammer out of the game. 
“we made a conscious ef­fort to be extra physical with him,” hickey said. “we had some help down low. we came in with a game plan. we know dom [romeo] is a real strong presence down there, and then we just played pitter-patter with his hands when he had his back to the basket.” 
now that romeo medical clinic has advanced to the championship game, romeo believes his team just has to focus on its own game. 
“we just have to keep play­ing like we’re playing,” romeo said. “at this point, we’ve kind of forgotten how to lose, so we hope that continues.” 
romeo medical clinic will take on sophomores of holy cross on saturday night at 7 p.m. for the Bookstore Basketball championship. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
Eifert 
conTinued From page 20 

postseason accolades, in­cluding the maxwell award for the most outstand­ing player and the Bronko nagurski award for the de­fensive player of the year. 
The draft continues Friday with the second and third rounds, followed by the remaining four rounds saturday. in addition to Te’o, other notre dame draft hopefuls include safeties Zeke motta and Jamoris slaughter, running 
back  cierre  wood,  run­ 
ning  back/receiver  Theo  
riddick,  defensive  end  

kapron lewis-moore and offensive linemen Braxston cave and mike golic, Jr. 
The second round begins at 6:30 p.m. in new york. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher Brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |lenny rago & paTrick cross 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jason lee, 43; renee Zellweger, 44; hank azaria, 49; al pacino, 73 
Happy Birthday: communication will be your greatest asset. Follow through with plans and show your expertise, experience and responsible way of handling situa­tions in both your personal and professional dealings. This is a make-it-or-break-it time in your life, and handling whatever you face head-on will help you reach the destination that suits you best. your numbers are 4, 10, 23, 26, 33, 35, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): refrain from anger even if someone pressures you. Take a step back and get a clear picture regarding your next move. make choices based on your needs, not what someone else wants. offer suggestions, not your time or money.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): show everyone how talented you are. discuss your plans and engage in events that will add to your knowledge. The experience you gain will back up what you have been displaying all along. love is highlighted and a celebration should be planned. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): keep your personal life a secret. Focus on money, contracts and negotiations. dealing with institutions can bring good results as long as you are receptive and willing to compromise. offer suggestions but don’t appear to be pushy. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): The spotlight is on you. Take care of business and offer to help others. say little and do a lot and you will impress someone who has something to offer you in return. a partnership can change your life personally or professionally.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Tread carefully when dealing with peers, colleagues or family members. don’t take on someone else’s chores without getting something in return. you are likely to be taken for granted if you aren’t careful. Think positively and make changes that improve your life. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): embrace change. you will have the charm and the exper­tise to succeed. love and romance are in the stars, and travel or taking time out to be with someone you love will put a positive spin on your day. live, love and laugh. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): put greater emphasis on money and how you handle your personal finances. an opportunity to save or invest as well as stabilize your future should be taken. you may be forced to alter the way you live. check out your options. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you have discipline, strength and courage. Be creative in the way you approach partnerships and you will encourage the people around you to adopt your methods. a personal relationship should be altered to suit your current situation. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): share your ideas and you will get the support your need to forge ahead. partnerships will bring you greater opportunities as long as you lay down ground rules that delegate chores evenly. offering help can turn into a paid position. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): make home improvements that please the ones you love. explore what you can do in order to earn more money or find a way to turn a skill or talent you have into extra cash. actions speak louder than words. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take it easy while traveling or dealing with people in your community with the potential to influence your future. Be prepared to deal with questions and opposition. stick close to home and enjoy expanding your ideas and plans. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): let your imagination wander. you’ll come up with remarkable ideas that can lead to a better income and long-term contracts. Budget wisely when it comes to personal items and needs. save for something that can alter your life. 


Birthday Baby: you are persuasive, quick to react and determined to get your way. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. Box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL | sophomores aT holy cross 21, d.g.p 17; romeo medical clinic 21, Team 3 15 
Sophomores receive Medical attention 
Top-two seeds earn spots in championship 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
in a battle of size ver­sus speed, the quicker no. 1 sophomores at holy cross withstood a second half surge from no. 4 d.g.p. to earn the 21-17 win. with the win, the defending champions advance to the championship game and keep their hopes of repeating alive. 
“Today the key was just to play strong and play as a team,” holy cross sophomore alajowon edwards said. “it was a big challenge for us today, so we had to play as a unit.” 
sophomores at holy cross jumped out to an early 5-1 lead 
see sophomores PAGE 18 


Familiar foes meet in Saturday’s Bookstore finale 
By MARY GREEN 
sportswriter 
after two hard-fought semifinal games, the matchup for the 2013 Bookstore Basketball champion­ship has been set. 
one team’s appearance in the fi­nal might have been a surprise last year, but not so much this year. no. 1 sophomores at holy cross, who was unranked last year, will look to defend its 2012 title against the no. 2 romeo medical clinic. 
For holy cross sophomore alajowon edwards, his team’s jour­ney this year has been a little more difficult since it has played with a target on its back over the course of the tournament. 
“it’s a big target because we’re 
see edwards PAGE 18 
NFL 

Bengals draft Eifert 21st 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
For the third time in two years a notre dame player was selected in the first round of the nFl draft as the cincinnati Bengals took former irish tight end Tyler eifert with the 21st pick. 
after deciding to return to notre dame follow­ing his junior campaign, eifert hauled in 50 recep­tions for a team-best 685 yards and four touchdowns as a senior. The 6-foot-6, 251-pound Fort wayne, ind. native won the John mackey award as the top tight end in the nation. in the Bcs national championship game against alabama, eifert recorded six grabs for 61 yards. 
eifert, who is notre dame’s all-time leader in re­ceptions (140) and receiving yards (1,840) by a tight end, is the highest-picked irish tight end since 1993, when irv smith went 20th overall. 
“This is such an exciting time for Tyler and his fam­ily,” irish head coach Brian kelly said in a statement. “he was faced with a diffi­cult decision following his junior season whether or not to return to school. Tyler returned for his senior sea­son and that decision was rewarded [Thursday]. he proved to be the best tight end in college football, so­lidified himself as a first-round draft pick and, most importantly, earned his de­gree from the university of notre dame.” 

in 2012, former irish re­ceiver michael Floyd was chosen with the 13th pick by the arizona cardinals. later in the first round, the minnesota vikings selected former irish safety harrison smith with the 29th overall pick. 

Former linebacker manti Te’o, a projected first-round pick by many draft experts, is still on the board after Thursday’s opening round. 
Te’o had a historic senior season, finishing second in the heisman Trophy voting. Te’o, who racked up 113 total tackles and seven intercep­tions in 2012, won a bevy of 
see eiFerT PAGE 18 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

irish play orange in meadowlands 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
no. 1 notre dame and no. 7 syracuse will decide the Big east regular season championship saturday at the Big city classic in metlife stadium, the home of the Jets and giants of the national Football league (nFl), in east rutherford, n.J. 
in game one of the classic, scheduled for 4 p.m., no. 4 cornell and no. 12 princeton will square off for conference supremacy, as well. 
playing in an nFl stadium presents a slightly different playing environment, irish coach kevin corrigan said. 
“it’s always fun to play in these big stadiums in front of a big crowd,” corrigan said. “you’ve got 70,000 seats and 15,000 people as opposed to 5,000 people jammed into arlotta like this past weekend.” 
The orange (10-3, 4-1 Big east) had won four straight, including wins over both cornell and princeton, be­fore dropping a 13-12 de­cision to hobart in the carrier dome on april 16. syracuse quickly rebound­ed with a 9-8 road win over georgetown on saturday. 
senior midfielder JoJo marasco leads the orange with 16 goals and 30 assists. sophomore attack kevin rice is right behind him in points with 14 goals and 20 assists. 
“syracuse is a team that plays really, really well in the unsettled, transi­tion situations,” corrigan said. “They put you in a lot of those. They’re smart about how they make it happen and they’re very good in their execution of them.” 
corrigan said defending the orange will be a three-part challenge — making good decisions on offense to avoid transition and fast breaks by syracuse, defending in transition and finally finishing the defensive possession with solid, settled guarding on their talented offensive playmakers. 
notre dame (10-2, 4-1) is coming off a 13-9 win over villanova on senior day in arlotta stadium on saturday. senior at­tack sean rogers leads the irish offense with 23 goals while freshman attack matt kavanagh is close on his tail with 20. 
see syracuse PAGE 18 




