The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 34 | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
University officials explain response to sexual assault 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
after a sexual assault occurs on campus, students receive an emailed crime alert from notre dame security police (ndsp), which is usually the first and last bit of information they hear about the incident. but behind that email notification, a response team ral­lies to coordinate resources all across campus for the students involved, associate vice president for campus safety mike seamon said. 
seamon said one reported sex­ual assault is too many, but the university’s response proceeds from “very close collaboration” among the relevant groups. 
“if ndsp receives a report of a sexual assault, they’ll begin their investigation immediately and we have the resources to do that,” he said. “we would contact student affairs within hours of receiving that to bring them into the loop so they can make the resources 
see oFFicials PAGE 7 


‘One is too many’ 

Student government responds to sexual assaults 
By TORI ROECK 
associate news editor 
crime alerT: sexual assault reported. 
every time a sexual assault is reported on campus, this blunt message appears in students’ in­boxes, but student government leaders at both notre dame and saint mary’s are working to hu­manize the issue of sexual assault and improve the student body’s response to these inhuman crimes. 
alex coccia, notre dame stu­dent body president, said recent sexual assault reports motivated student government to act on the issue. 
“we had always considered it part of our platform to work specifically with the committee for sexual assault prevention and [vice president for student affairs] erin hoffman-harding, but i think the immediacy and volume of the alerts that we re­ceived early on in the year sort 
see governmenT PAGE 6 



ND competes in blood drive 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
notre dame students will have an opportunity to pro­vide a lifesaving resource while also besting a rival during next week’s notre dame versus usc blood drive competition. 
James mancino, blood drive coordinator for the notre dame red cross club, said the club is partnering with the st. Joseph county chapter of the american red cross to organize a series of three blood drives. 
The drives will take place on monday from noon to 5 p.m. in laFortune, Thursday from 11 
a.m. to 4 p.m. in a red cross bus outside the Joyce center and Friday from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the pasquerilla center. 
“it’s always good to compete against usc in any way, shape or form, and this has the added bonus of being life-saving,” mancino said. 

mancino said usc would have five drives throughout the week, so the winner will be judged by average units of blood per drive. 
mancino said there is no physical reward for the winning school, though they hope to eventually have a trophy. 


“we tried to get a trophy to go back and forth, but we don’t have one yet,” he said. “For now 
see blood drive PAGE 5 


saint mary’s alumna serves the u.s. virgin islands 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint mary’s editor 
Editor’s Note: This is the fifth story in a series featuring Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s graduates serving as members of Congress. This series, titled “Trading Golden Dome for Capitol Dome,” will run on Fridays. 
as the federal government shutdown reaches its 11th day, congresswoman donna christensen (d-u.s. virgin islands) said she is concerned for the almost 700 federal employees in the territory who are being fur­loughed or facing reduced pay. 
christensen, who graduated from saint mary’s in 1966 with a bachelor of science degree, is one of six non-voting mem­bers of congress. The virgin islands, guam, puerto rico, district of columbia, northern mariana islands and american samoa all send delegates who are asked to weigh in on issues under legislation to congress. congresswoman madeleine bordallo of guam also attended saint mary’s, but her office de­clined repeated requests from The observer for interviews. 
christensen said the current 
see delegaTe PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 men’s soccer PAGE 20 women’s soccer PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                       peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 

News 
Kaitlyn rabach lesley stevenson charlie ducey 
Graphics 
emily hoffmann 
Photo 
Karla moreno 
Sports 

Kit loughran samantha Zuba brian harnett 
Scene 

miko malabute 
Viewpoint 

daniel sehlhorst 


Corrections 

in the oct. 9 issue of The observer, “endowed shareholders” were mistakenly referred to as “endowed chairholders” in the article “university investments pay off.” The observer regrets this error. 
Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What’s at the bottom of St. Mary’s Lake? 

Teresa Sandoval 


Kylie Hausch 
freshman 

freshman 
lyons hall 

mccandless hall 
“hell.” 

“water.” 
Joel Kolb 


Hayley Evans 
junior 

senior 
st. edwards hall 

ryan hall 
“dead people.” 

“merman.” 
David Que 


Brian Herrmann 
sophomore 

sophomore 
Zahm house 

Zahm house 
“an old wooden ship.” 

“my gpa after statistics.” 

Want your event included here? 
Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Friday  Saturday  Sunday  Monday  Tuesday  
Mindful Meditation  Domer Run  VisionWalk  ACSM Colloqium: “A  Lecture: “Beyond  
St. Liam Hall  Legends  Irish Green  Game of Clones”  Keeping Peace”  
1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m.  9 a.m.-11 a.m.  12 p.m.-3:30 p.m.  127 Hayes-Healy  Hesburgh Center for  
Part of the Stress  Run, walk, or jog  Proceeds benefit the  4 p.m.-5 p.m.  International Studies  
Buster Fridays series.  to support cancer  Foundation Fighting  On mechanisms in  4 p.m.-5:30 p.m.  
research.  Blindness.  myelodysplasia.  Talk on UN peace efforts.  
Mobile Summit  Hot 8 Brass Band  Piano Performance  Prep for the Second  Men’s Soccer  
Eck Hall of Law  DeBartolo Performing  DeBartolo Performing  Round Interview  Alumni Stadium  
9 a.m.-4;30 p.m.  Arts Center  Arts Center  114 Flanner Hall  7 p.m.-9 p.m.  
Discussion of mobile  7:30 p.m.-9p.m.  2 p.m.-3:30 p.m.  5 p.m.-6 p.m.  Notre Dame takes  
technology in the 21st  New Orleans street  PianistJan Lisiecki  Career Center  on Northwestern in  
century.  music concert.  performs.  workshop.  regional rivalry.  



Professor analyzes Christianity and sex slavery 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
news writer 
on Thursday, dr. mary doak, associate professor of theology at the university of san diego, gave a lecture titled “consuming women: sex Trafficking and the body of christ in a market dominated world” as the final in­stallment in saint mary’s center for spirituality’s fall lecture series. 
To begin the lecture, doak in­troduced the context of a “market dominated world.” 
“we’ve entered the 21st century with global systems of communi­cation and trade that are binding the world’s populations together more thoroughly than perhaps at any other time in history,” doak said. “This global interconnected­ness has the potential to advance the human community and to fa­cilitate the church’s mission.” 
she said this global trade, while being able to improve economies worldwide and offer new opportu­nities to those in resource-deficient areas, also facilitates the global­ization of the sex industry. in this industry, she said human beings are transformed into instruments of revenue, where they are valued solely for their physical worth to others. 
“The market’s demand for profit has clearly triumphed over human dignity and communion,” doak said. “These sex slaves are not sub­jects in the market exchanges but rather are treated as objects in the market, exchanged by and for the consumption of others.” 
doak said victims of human trafficking experience a reality of 


paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 


“non-personhood,” where they are objectified to the point of losing all relation to humanity in the eyes of their sellers. 
doak cited the Federal bureau of investigation (Fbi) as labeling the sex industry as the third largest criminal business in the world, and the fastest growing. u.s. journal­ists reported an increase in crimi­nal gang activity in the trafficking business, she said, purely for the profit. 
“criminal gangs in the united states are turning to prostitution, because it is more profitable than selling drugs,” she said. “after all, female bodies can be sold repeat­edly in the same night, unlike guns and drugs ... and at relatively little risk to the trafficker.” 
The rate at which human traf­ficking occurs rises with demand, doak said. The demand is fed by sex tourists, those who travel to different areas specifically for that area’s availability of sex slaves. 
“many sex tourists are americans and europeans,” doak said. “it is also unfortunately the case that girls and young women are trafficked into as well as within the united states and europe.” 
due to the criminal nature of the proceedings, she said there are no exact statistics on trafficking in the united states. however, it is esti­mated women are forced into the sex industry at the rate of one every 60 seconds. 
another major factor in the suc­cess of trafficking is the very young age of many of the victims. doak said girls are often taken between the ages of 12 and 14, when they are easily manipulated through vio­lence and the withholding of food, clothing and shelter. 
“The market’s demand for profit has clearly triumphed over human dignity and communion.” 
Dr. Mary Doak 
associate professor 
theology 
The christian tradition has also contributed to the dehumaniza­tion of those in the sex industry, she said, by manipulating the truth about lifestyles of sex workers and representing them as women with insatiable lusts and greed for mon­ey or luxury,” doak said. 
“consider, for example, the christian tradition depicting mary magdalene as a deeply repentant prostitute who must be ... forgiven much,” doak said. “[This] has func­tioned to create a powerful virgin-whore binary in which women are defined by their sexuality.” 
she said this dichotomy has cre­ated a christian culture in which it is expected that women choose to save their virtue over their lives — a choice women forced into the sex industry are faced with every day. it is behind the notion of the “fallen woman,” she said, which has been applied even to raped women who have lost their virginity against their wills. 
doak said this attitude prevents christians from viewing sex work­ers as the victims they truly are. 
“having been formed by a tra­dition filled with moralizing tales that condemn prostituted women for their wantonness,” she said. “it’s easy to overlook the reality of these women’s lives.” 
daok said as christians, we are called upon to look past these unfounded biases and open our hearts to those who need our love and assistance the most. 
“a church that values social re­spectability, that seeks a facade of social harmony without offering serious opposition to injustice is a church that offers more of the same of what we find in society,” she said. “when the church’s mis­sion is thus obscured ... fewer feel their need for the mutual support that empowers us as a church to live ... more fully.” 
responding to the world’s injus­tices to the best of our individual abilities will help to influence our communities and, overall, the world, doak said. 
“it may be that the sex industry can never be totally eradicated,” she said, “[but] one of our great­est resources now is our global connectedness.” 
in addition to political, econom­ic and activist campaigns against sex trafficking, she said more effort should be put into ministry cam­paigns to provide the women dam­aged in the sex industry spiritual support and acceptance. 
sister ann oestreich, congre­gation justice coordinator for the sisters of the holy cross shared the sisters’ involvement in the global campaign against sex trafficking. 
she said sisters around the world are working to promote education about the sex industry, and how to combat it. 
The sisters launched part of their local initiative a few years ago, in­tending to decrease the spike in sex trafficking associated with the super bowl, oestreich said. 
“we really got involved in 2011 when we found out that the super bowl was going to be held in indianapolis,” oestrich said. 
she said the sisters contacted more than 200 hotels in the area, offering informational pamphlets and free training for employees, to teach them how to recognize signs of sex trafficking, as well as who to contact to report and safely record such an incident. 
although only 52 hotels accept­ed the employee training and 100 requested informational materials, oestrich said it is a step toward the prevention and diminishment of sex trafficking. 
The sisters have been using their financial investments in hotel chains to hold dialogues with lead­ers to increase awareness, and get more hotels to sign the hospitality industry’s code of conduct to end child prostitution and trafficking. 
oestrich said the inn at saint mary’s has recently signed this code, making the public commit­ment against child exploitation in the sex industry. 
“we are proud, and we hope you are too, that both of the hotels on our campus have made this com­mitment,” she said, “and we are now reaching out to hotels on other college and university campuses and inviting them to follow the ex­ample of the inn at saint mary’s.” 
oestrich said the sisters have also been working with indiana’s state attorney general’s office to educate, spread awareness and prevent sex trafficking. she said they have been in contact with the south bend police department as well. 
“all of south bend’s policemen and women will receive training this november,” she said, “in addi­tion, special victims officers from ... other jurisdictions ... will receive extensive training on how to deal with victims of sex trafficking.” 
oestrich encourages students with an interest in trafficking prevention to contact her at the congregation Justice office by calling 574-284-5991 to find out how to become involved. she said sisters of the holy cross are lob­bying for stronger federal laws to prevent trafficking, and student involvement would strengthen the campaign. 
“we need to work together to see that each person is free and able to realize, experience and own their dignity as a human being,” oestrich said. 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Delegate 
conTinued From page 1 
shutdown of the federal govern­ment could have a dramatic effect on the economy of the u.s. virgin islands. 
“we are a community that has been facing some severe econom­ic lows with the closing of our larg­est private industry, government insurance falls and the impact of the recession which generally comes a little later than [when the impact hits the] mainland but stays longer and has a great impact,” christensen said. “This is just making a bad situation far worse for us as we try to recover from our economic issues and challenges.” 
her constituents began flood­ing her office with phone calls im­mediately after the shutdown, she said. 
“The first complaint i began getting was from the national park in st. John,” christensen said. “st. John is a small island and two-thirds of it is a national park, so everything in st. John depends on the national park. … The calls came from taxi drivers, small business owners whose business­es are being impacted, the wed­ding planners who have people coming in to get married in one of the beautiful sites … our national parks cannot utilize that venue anymore, this has been a big issue. 
“i traveled on Tuesday [september 1] and the customs board of protection was there and of course Tsa [Transportation security administration] [work­ers] were there, but nobody was sure when they were going to get another paycheck. That is not a good environment in which to work.” 
No limitations 
christensen, who was the first female physician to be elected to congress, said she treasures the time she spent at saint mary’s. she credits the college as one of the key factors in the development of the confidence she now uses as a member of congress, she said. 
“going to an all-women’s col­lege … gave me confidence and i think that it prepared me well,” christensen said. 
when she first came to saint mary’s, christensen said she was planning on going into medical technology, but after reading an article published by the national negro college Fund, she said she decided to changer her career plans and become a doctor. 
“when i had doubts about whether i was capable of being a doctor, my biology chair, dr. clarence dinnen, was there for support and encouragement,” christensen said. “i thought that was very important.” 
This positive support helped her when others expressed con­cern about her ability to enter a “man’s field,” she said. 
“i remember one time a family member of a schoolmate said to me, ‘i don’t think you should do that, that’s not a good idea, going to medical school,’” christensen said. “i remember being really taken aback by that, but then i dis­missed it. The kind of confidence i gained, the education i received and the support i had from the faculty made it something that i didn’t think twice about. after professor divine sat me down and said ‘i could do whatever i wanted to do,’ i never worried.” 
after graduating from saint mary’s, christensen said she re­ceived a doctor of medicine in 1970 from george washington university school of medicine and completed her residency in 1974. 
Coming home 
The day after she finished her residency, christensen said she came home to the u.s. virgin islands. 
“i began working in a small emergency room in 1975, and af­ter being home and hearing some of the issues that were of concern to my community i decided to be­come active in the community,” christensen said. “it is home and there were things that were hap­pening that i thought individu­als needed to be more proactive about, so i decided to involve my­self in different issues like the ap­pointment of local judges, sale of land . that was important to my community and the private indus­try. but, i was doing it as an orga­nizer myself, organizing different coalitions and different groups to 
“I was there when we wrote the Affordable Care Act, and that is an experience I will remember for the rest of my life and feel proud to be a part of it. I consider that a major event in my life.” 
Donna Christensen 
congresswoman 
U.S. Virgin Islands 
advocate or oppose an issue.” 
at the time, christensen said maintaining a private practice in family medicine and while adapt­ing to life as a new mother drove her to find a formal way to partici­pate in community organizing. 
“at this point i had a young baby and was working, so i decided to join the democratic party,” christensen said. “ i joined by running for a seat on my local ter­ritorial committee. i won and be­came an officer. i did that because i thought the democratic party would be a good vehicle for me to do some of the things i wanted to do and i wouldn’t have to be doing it by myself.” 
after serving for 12 years as a democratic national committeewoman, christensen said she was urged to run for na­tional office in 1994. 
after losing her first primary race in 1994, christensen said she ran again in 1996 and won the virgin islands seat. 
“i had been practicing [medi­cine] and [working] in politics at the same time, so it wasn’t an abrupt transition, it was more of shifting the balance,” christensen said. “in my practice you always find that there are a lot of social and other issues that impact the health of your patients. many times people would come in just to talk about whatever problems they were having, and so i kind of looked at it as bringing my office work from a local level to a larger, national level. i did promise my patients that i would remain ac­tive in healthcare, even if i was not their private physician anymore.” 
Territorial interests 
christensen said being a dele­gate of a territory is more challeng­ing than being a woman or being a minority in congress. 
“Territories are not states, so in many instances the constitution does not explicitly provide ter­ritories with the same rights and privileges as it does states,” christensen said. “Therefore, i don’t get to vote in final passage [of bills] or to even voting in com­mittee of the whole is a matter of contention because while the democrats feel we should vote, the republicans don’t. so when democrats are in the majority we vote in the committee of the whole and when they are not, we don’t.” 
christensen, who currently serves on the committee on energy and commerce, is the first delegate from a territory to sit on an exclusive committee. due to the expansive list of policy con­cerns that fall in the committee’s jurisdiction, members who serve on one of the four exclusive com­mittees – the other three being appropriations, ways and means and house Financial services – are not allowed to serve on other house committees. 
she said she the support of the congressional black caucus pushed her not only to sit on the at-large committee, but also on the subcommittee on health. 
“Just getting on those commit­tees were a big milestone for me,” christensen said. “i was there when we wrote the affordable care act, and that is an experience i will remember for the rest of my life and feel proud to be a part of it. i consider that a major event in my life.” 
now, christensen sits on the subcommittee on energy and power. she said she not only works for members of her district, but also strives to push legislation through congress for all of the territories. 
“i was also on the committee [on energy and commerce] when we did the american reinvestment act . that was very important to help us recover from recession,” christensen said. “my presence on that helped my ter­ritory to get a significant amount of funding, as well as the other territories. as a delegate from a territory, one of my responsibili­ties is to look out not only for my own, but for all of the territories.” 
A desire to serve 
christensen said her time as a part of the larger saint mary’s, notre dame and south bend communities during this the civil rights movement instilled in her a desire to serve. 
“after the summer where all of the riots, the bombings and all of that happened there was a change to me in saint mary’s and notre dame,” christensen said. “we did become more socially conscious, and i think it was at that point that we started going into the south bend community, notre dame and saint mary’s students togeth­er. we would go into south bend and help kids with homework and we developed big brothers, big sisters for some of the poorer kids in town. 
“ … even though we were farther away and we were not involved in the protests or the marches, i think the civil rights movement had a profound impact on us and i think it elevated our social justice awareness and efforts.” 
christensen said she was also at saint mary’s when she found out about the cuban missile crisis in 1962 and president John F. Kennedy’s death in 1963. 
”i was [at saint mary’s] dur­ing some very important times in our nation’s history,” she said. “i am sure the dialogue and how we dealt with those issues had a lot to do with why i am here [in congress serving others] as well.” 
christensen said she feels proud to be an alumna of saint mary’s. 
“when i first came here [to congress] there were four saint mary’s women,” christensen said. “imagine that a small college like ours could have four members of congress serving at the same time. i thought that was amazing and it is to saint mary’s credit [as an educational institution]. now three of us are still here. 
“i do treasure the time i spent at saint mary’s and i do count it as being responsible in part for the successes i have achieved through my lifetime.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 





Blood drive 
conTinued From page 1 
it’s about bragging rights 
— and a good cause and healthy conscience.” 
This is the first time the red cross club has hosted such an event, but they hope to make it a tradition, he said. 
“we usually have one drive per semester, so this was a way to establish something a little more permanent,” he 

Journalist discusses French concept of seduction 
said. “we’re working to start a new tradition and estab­lish our club a little more.” 
mancino said usc has held a similar annual competi­tion with ucla for several years, but this year ucla was unable to participate. This prompted the president of usc’s red cross club to call the president of notre dame’s club over the sum­mer and begin planning this year’s competition, he said. 
mancino said the club 
paid adverTisemenT 

hopes to repeat the compe­tition next year and beyond. in the future, he said the club hopes to be able to offer free T-shirts and to expand the event to match usc’s five blood drives in order to compete on the basis of total units of blood collected. 
To register, go to http:// www.redcross.org/. walk-ins are also welcome. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
on Thursday, elaine sciolino, a paris correspon­dent for the new york Times and author of “la seduction: how the French play the game of life”, gave a lecture where she explained how the idea of seduction plays an in­tegral role in French society, affecting French politics, for­eign policy and the economy. 
in French, sciolino said the word “seduction” has a broader meaning than the sexual connotation it has in english. 
“seduction is nothing but a conversation that doesn’t end, whether it’s in the bed­room, the boardroom, the corridors of power or in busi­ness,” she said. 
as a result, sciolino said certain forms of communi­cation become “weapons of seduction” in French culture, often confusing americans. For example, she said, the French place a higher empha­sis on “verbal sparring” in conversation. 
“conversation is not nec­essarily a way to accomplish a goal,” sciolino said, “but more of a verbal contest and a source of pleasure.” 
sciolino said forms of non­verbal communication like hand-kissing and the limited use of smiles can be used as other “weapons”. 
“This is why some americans find the French rude, but the absence of smiles does not seem to indicate the absence of kind­ness,” sciolino said. “it sig­nals reserve, that the smile is not something that is given away; it has to be earned.” 
seduction’s effect is most visible, sciolino said, in the political realm, where candi­dates for public office build the image of being charming and popular with the oppo­site sex. 
“Seduction is nothing but a conversation that doesn’t end, whether it’s in the bedroom, the boardroom, the corridors of power or in business.” 
Elaine Sciolino 
Paris correspondent 
New York Times 
“my research has shown me that French politicians 
—
 male politicians, at least 

—
 gain more stature the more sexually alluring they appear, because the rule of French politics is that politicians love and are loved,” she said. 


The ideology of seduction also appears, she said, in France’s foreign policy, where the very concept of “soft pow­er,” or the ability to influence other countries without mili­tary strength, is translated as “la seduction.” 
sciolino recounted nego­tiations between american and French diplomats over a united nations treaty. she said when the americans ex­pressed concerns over the treaty’s inflexibility with re­gards to foreign intervention, the French diplomat respond­ed that breaking treaty would be like cheating on one’s wife 
— not difficult. 
The absence of the “ongo­ing conversation” of seduc­tion, sciolino said, not only hurts the electability of po­litical candidates, but it also explains certain fundamen­tal problems with the French economy as it deals with an expanding global economy. 
“For decades an awareness of the decline of France has bored deep into the national consciousness, and there’s still this admiration and clinging to history … cou­pled with the fear of the un­known,” sciolino said. 
The result, she said, is “the antithesis of seduction.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Peace Corps veteran reflects on time in Thailand 
By WENDY HATCH 
news writer 
in 1961, the senior class of st. Francis Xavier university sat in their gaps and gowns and listened to president John F. Kennedy state he was going to start an organiza­tion that would send young vol­unteers overseas to help other people. 
roger parent, author of the newly released “The making of a peace corps volunteer: From maine to Thailand”, was among the graduates that day, and said he was incredibly struck by president Kennedy’s new pro­posal. on Thursday, parent held a book-signing in the hammes notre dame bookstore to pro­mote his new book. 
“i thought to myself, ‘hey, i want to do that,’” parent said. “so i wrote president Kennedy a let­ter right away and i said i want to be a part of this thing that you have started. well, lo and behold, six months later i was invited to be a part of the peace corps in Thailand.” 
parent said he was a part of the first group of peace corps volun­teers who were sent to Thailand in 1961. The group volunteered until 1963, he said. 
parent said is originally from French-speaking lille, maine where he learned english as a second language. 
“They probably thought that [attending college] in a foreign country would be an asset,” parent said. “but what i don’t think they understood is that i grew up a couple thousand yards from the canadian boarder.” 
while in Thailand, parent said he taught locals about carpentry and the english language. 
“i was teaching Thai people to speak english with a French ac­cent,” he said. 
when his services ended in 1963, parent said he explored op­tions for peace corps returnees in the states.
 “[The peace corps] is what brought me to the university of notre dame,” parent said. “Father Ted hesburgh had a return peace corps scholarship and since i was one of the first peace corps volunteers to go to the peace corps and get out, it had to go to somebody.” 
parent used his scholarship to receive a master of education degree from notre dame in 1967. after receiving his degree, parent said he and his family decided to stay in south bend, where he served as a city councilman from 1972 to 1979 and served as mayor from 1980 to 1987. 
“it turned out south bend was a great place for me”, said parent. “i got accepted in the community really early here … i joke that i thought i would live on the east coast or the west coast and ended up living on the west coast of lake michigan.” 
parent said his experience serving as a peace corps volun­teer helped him to become a bet­ter politician. 
“in the peace corps i had to put myself in someone else’s shoes … when i got elected mayor i had some experience doing that,” parent said. “as a politician you always have to try to figure out what people are thinking.” 
overall, parent said the peace corps taught him much about life and he said he would recommend it to anyone. 


“we are never called ‘former peace corps volunteers.’ once a peace corps volunteer always a peace corps volunteer,” parent said. 
Contact Wendy Hatch at whatch@nd.edu 
Government 
conTinued From page 1 
of made us rethink about the con­versation and ultimately has led us to decide that this is really our ad­ministrative priority for the rest of the year,” coccia said. 
Kat sullivan, saint mary’s stu­dent body president, said the increase in emails indicates an in­crease in reporting, which is a pos­itive sign for the community, but she was particularly concerned about how students reacted to the reports. 
“i think people were frightened, and i think that people under­stand that sexual assault is an is­sue across the world, but it’s hard to really fully understand and be fully affected by it until it’s some­one that you know and a member of our community,” sullivan said. “so i think that they were fright­ened but again what i keep empha­sizing is that it means that people are reporting it. it means that peo­ple are seeking out help.” 
‘Is this normal?’ 
vice president of campus safety mike seamon said the amount of sexual assaults reported so far this year conforms to national trends. 
“one is too many, no matter what. one reported sexual assault is too many. but if you look at prob­ably the national averages over the last several years, national as in not just notre dame, and the numbers in the first eight weeks, the first two months of school is when you’ll see an influx,” seamon said. “… and if you look at notre dame’s numbers, although you can see clusters of reported events like we have [seen] in the last couple of weeks our numbers tend to be over the last three or four years pretty consistent. 
“and it doesn’t mean that we ex­pect that to remain the same but because we’ve had a cluster over the last two weeks, or three weeks, or month, i think that is following national trends, and it’s also fol­lowing what notre dame has seen in the past several years.” 
while she acknowledges that notre dame’s numbers may be on trend, notre dame vice president nancy Joyce said student govern­ment is not satisfied with this. 
“i think one of the biggest things is that the first three emails were all reports of either rape or attempted rape, and i think that really caught people’s attention. That was some­thing different than we had seen in the past,” Joyce said. “and then to have three within the first two, three weeks, i think that was the biggest thing because as seniors, we have not seen that. 
“and then you’ve got the under­classmen and they’re response is, ‘what is this? is this normal?’ i think it’s a great opportunity for us to set the tone for the underclass­men that this isn’t normal or we’re not going to accept it as normal on our campus, but also then to help use the upperclassmen’s sense of, ‘This is new; this is different’ to sort of change the way that we’re talking about sexual assault on our campus.” 
Setting the Tone 
at its sept. 18 meeting, notre dame student senate passed a resolution making student government more responsible for sexual assault on campus. 
The resolution states, “whereas, recognizing that these occurrenc­es are a leadership failure … [we admit] that as leaders in our com­munity, we have not been doing enough to change the way we, as a community, concern ourselves with these issues.” 
coccia said through this resolu­tion, student government wanted to utilize its potential for change to better address sexual assault. 
“we recognize that if we’re in the room with senators and people who are representatives of their dorm, people who are elected rep­resentatives of the student body and people who are appointed representatives because of all of their passion and interest in serv­ing the student body, we have so much potential in that room to get a conversation going,” he said, 
“It’s a conscious 
decision that we 
have to take some 
sense of owership 
over this issue and 
hold ourselves 
accountable, 
hold each other 
accountable, 
otherwise it’s 
just not going to 
change.” 
Nancy Joyce 
student body vice president 
“and i think that was the purpose of that resolution was to recognize that before we move forward with anything we have to recognize our own failures.” 
Joyce said admitting student government’s responsibility to protect the community from sex­ual violence opens the door for change. 
“it’s a conscious decision that we have to take some sense of own­ership over this issue and hold ourselves accountable, hold each other accountable, otherwise it’s just not going to change,” she said. “it was an interesting debate but i was really pleased that that went through senate because i think that was important for us to have a conversation where we’re rec­ognizing that it’s on us, it’s on our shoulders. it’s not administrators. it’s no one other than students.” 
sullivan said student govern­ment is best suited for advising the student body on sexual assault, and she takes that responsibility seriously. 
“i think the biggest thing as stu­dent government that we can do is reassure the community that … what we can ultimately do to stop the cycle of sexual violence is mak­ing sure that we’re watching out for the other members of our commu­nity,” she said. 
Response and Prevention 
coccia said student government immediately responded to the sexual assault reports by institut­ing prayer services at the grotto and changing the wording in re­port emails from the notre dame security police (ndsp) to say “sex­ual battery” instead of “forcible fondling.” 
“The benefit we see in [the prayer services] is it’s an imme­diate tangible thing for people to do following an email,” he said. “and obviously it’s not enough, but viewing that as an action that can spark dialogue, can spark healing, is extremely important as we move forward.” 
coccia said student govern­ment is helping to publicize events for october as sexual assault awareness month, such as the gender relations center’s “a Time to heal dinner,” which will take place oct. 29. 
sullivan said saint mary’s stu­dent government worked together with the belles against violence office (bavo) on the one in Four vigil, which took place oct. 1. The event highlighted the statistic that one in four college women has been a victim of sexual violence by giving out 400 T-shirts to represent a fourth of the saint mary’s student body, she said. 
“i think that having a large show­ing for that really speaks volumes for our community because it’s important that these assaults are getting reported,” sullivan said. “… i think the stigma is disintegrat­ing and students are feeling more comfortable voicing what they’ve been through because there are others that have kind of led the way with that by being brave and seek­ing help when they need it.” 
sullivan said her administration began combatting sexual assault by running 
Know the Facts Training for first-year students during orientation and requiring that student lead­ers receive green dot training, a national certification program for preventing sexual violence. 
“when there’s some sort of ques­tionable situation, you’re worried about your friend going off with someone else — that’s called a red dot. and so the green dot is that you directly intervene, you distract the other person or you delegate and get someone else to help,” she said. 
Joyce said she wants to launch a “grassroots” campaign against sexual assault that will focus more on preventing the crime on campus. 
“as helpful as the administrators that we’ve worked with have been and as cooperative as ndsp and others have been, at the end of the day they can’t make the changes that need to be made,” she said. “we’re really hoping to work with leaders within each of the dorms to kind of start the conversation there. i’m a big believer in using the structure that we already have, which is the hall system, to sort of shape how we approach this.” 
one way the community can make a significant impact in end­ing sexual violence is just being supportive, sullivan said. 
“The fact that this is mental health awareness week, with support a belle, love a belle, [we want to let] the girls know who have struggled and have had to experience sexual violence that we are here for them,” she said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 



that one doesn’t feel that they are 
Officials 
automatically seen as guilty. 
conTinued From page 1 

“we’re sensitive to that percep­available to all parties involved in tion so we try to really counter that that incident. as much as possible.” 
“so you’ll see that you’ll have Just because a case was report-a law enforcement and a Title iX ed does not mean it will be on the or student affairs response being record of the students involved, made available together almost stackman said. instantaneously.” erin hoffman harding, vice 
phil Johnson, chief of police for president for student affairs, said ndsp, said the goal of the email only “in very rare cases” a con-notifications is to release as much duct result would become part information allowed as quickly of a student’s personal record, as they can, to get the word out to and only when a student is found people. responsible. 
“we certainly want to identify “The support doesn’t cease with where the location is when we can, the end of the case,” harding said. when we think it’s appropriate, but “There are many cases where the there are a number of factors that resource coordinators check in are going to come into play as we and offer support to the both of the write a crime alert,” Johnson said. students involved, even coming “we try to understand where we out of the process. are in the investigation and what “The care of the university com-we can release at a given time. we munity is something i think we still want the warning out there see as a very continuous process visiting campus. what we would resources that we provide to inves-should not be discouraged to re-right away.” do is provide her with all the sup-tigate thoroughly and sensitively port or intervene because there 
bill stackman, associate vice 

port that we would just like if the anything that occurs and to care may be other rule violations in-president for student services and 
“Building respondent was a notre dame stu-for both students involved in the volved, such as alcohol use or deputy Title iX coordinator, said 
dent; it would be identical,” he said. process.” parietals. 
community at 

“i’d assign a resource coordinator christine caron gebhardt, di-“i believe we have within du lac although the office of student 
Notre Dame 

to that person and let them know rector of the gender relations an understanding that because sexual assault report and manage affairs is obligated to investigate a 
says this is your about their options outside of the center, said the recent changes sexual assault is one of the most the case, the student involved can 
business; this is university because there wouldn’t in freshman orientation and the egregious things that we have, it decide whether to also report the 
be any options here because the move from the office of residential becomes our highest priority and 
about us taking 
case criminally. 

respondent is not a student. life to the office of community the other situations become issues 
care of each other.” 
“as soon as we hear about a case, 

“we would not have an admin-standards marks “a shifted focus that are secondary,” she said. “any we meet with [the student] and we 
Christine Caron Gebhardt istrative dealing, but there could of conversation” toward a more witness coming forward that may assign a resource coordinator to 
director be criminal options that she community-driven approach. be involved in any other policy them,” stackman said. “They have 
Gender Relations Center would have that we’d want her to The committee on sexual assault violation, that would be taken into the option to report criminally, or 
be aware of.” prevention has launched a big ef-consideration in the conduct pro-do both at the same time … or they harding said the office of fort to train bystanders to react to cess. so we really want people to can ask us to defer our process.” at any time we see that a student student affairs makes a point of sexual assault situations, she said. step forward, knowing that.” 
stackman said the adminis-has gone through a difficult time, partnering with both the student “i’ve heard students say there are harding said she has seen “ter­tration’s investigation process is whatever the outcome.” body and the broader community some basic bystander obstacles for rific examples” of concerned “fact-finding” in nature, and be-stackman said a typical inves-in preventing sexual assault. why people don’t intervene,” she students coming forward to re-cause they are equally concerned tigation of a sexual assault case “we want this to be a campus said. “Í don’t know what to do’… port assaults either as victims or with the complainant and the re-could last around two to three free of sexual harassment, mis-‘i’m afraid this isn’t my business’… bystanders. spondent, they provide resource weeks or longer, depending on conduct or assault,” harding said. ‘am i the person to do this?’ “our first and primary hope is coordinators to both parties for the complexity of the case and the “everyone wants the same goal, “well, building community at that these instances will not occur, support. number of people involved in it. \ and we consider the student body, notre dame says this is your busi-but when and if they do, we want 
“[if] we have a report, we are ob-in order for the administration to the administrators, faculty and ness; this is about us taking care of our students to know that there ligated by the federal government investigate a case under Title iX, security our partners in this effort each other. [The training] is hap-are resources available for them to to investigate it, to gather informa-though, stackman said both par-to gather and try to do everything pening at a level where students go through this process and to be tion and then to move it forward, ties have to be students at notre first and foremost that we can do can really be empowered to cre-surrounded by others within the and that’s what we do,” he said. dame, saint mary’s or holy cross. to prevent these instances from ate the kind of community that community,” she said. “but we make sure that in every-“let’s say a woman comes for-happening at all. we all believe and we all envision thing we do that we’re taking care ward with a report of [being] as-“if and when they do occur, i feel together.” Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski of both individuals equally, and saulted by someone who was great about the support and the caron gebhardt said students at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Teen nobel peace prize contender looks to future 
Associated Press 
new yorK — a defiant 16-year-old pakistani girl whose advocacy for education made her the target of a Taliban as­sassination attempt a year and a day ago told an audience in new york on Thursday she one day hopes to become her country’s prime minister. 
malala yousafzai made her comments in an interview with cnn’s chief international corre­spondent christiane amanpour. she spoke a few hours after she was awarded europe’s top hu­man rights prize and on the eve of the awarding of the nobel peace prize, for which she is considered a likely contender. 
asked if she wanted to be a doctor or a politician, malala said she initially wanted to be a doctor but had learned she could help more people as prime minister. 
“i can spend much of the bud­get on education,” malala said to applause and laughter as she sat next to her father, human rights activist Ziauddin yousafzai, the founder of an all-girls school in pakistan. 
in a wide-ranging interview to be broadcast sunday, malala recounted the moment she was shot while sitting in the back of a vehicle traveling home from school and reiterated that she was not intimidated by threats. 
“i’m never going to give up,” malala said when asked about repeated death threats made against her by the Taliban. 
“They only shot a body but they cannot shoot my dreams.” 
on oct. 9, 2012, a masked gunman jumped into a pickup truck taking girls home from the school and shouted “who is malala” before shooting her in the head. 
her father asked his brother-in-law to prepare a coffin. but malala woke up a week later at a hospital in birmingham, england, and gradually re­gained her sight and her voice. 
she said Thursday her first thought was of two friends she was with who were also injured in the attack. 
“if i was shot that was fine for me but i was feeling guilty that they have been the target,” she said. 
The world’s horrified reac­tion to the attack led to the cre­ation of malala Fund, which campaigns for girls’ education around the world. malala has received multiple awards, in­cluding the $65,000 sakharov award, which she was awarded just hours before her interview. 
The assassination attempt drew worldwide attention to the struggle for women’s rights in pakistan. malala addressed the united nations on her 16th birthday, and she expects to meet with Queen elizabeth ii later this month. 
The nobel peace prize com­mittee will say only that a record 259 candidates, including 50 or­ganizations, have been nomi­nated this year. speculation on front-runners for Friday’s an­nouncement is primarily based on previous choices and current events. 
malala said Thursday it would a “great honor and more than i deserve” to win the accolade, but insisted she still had more to do before she felt she’d truly earned it. 
“i need to work a lot,” she said. 
malala’s father said he didn’t regret how outspoken his pre­cocious only daughter has been since she was 11 years old, when she first started blogging and speaking out against the denial of education to young girls in pakistan’s swat valley. 
“i will never put my head into the yoke of slavery,” he said. 
malala spoke passionately Thursday against forced mar­riages and the denial of educa­tion to girls and boys throughout the world. 
she urged young girls in the developed world to take advan­tage of their education — and to do their homework and be kind to their teachers. 
“i would like to tell all the girls: realize its importance be­fore it is snatched from you,” she said. 
malala lives with her family in birmingham, england. she said that while in pakistan she liked to listen to Justin beiber, but now longs for the pashto music of her homeland. 


We’ve got your back 
get inspired 

Miko Malabute 
scene editor 

call me a try-hard, call me a bit corny for this, but i truly hold this to be true and have always thought about it this way ever since i could remember: academics and sports really are so closely related. 
with the fairly recently sparked controver­sy over a few key figures of our football team taking an early exit before singing the alma mater after the loss to oklahoma a couple weeks back, followed by the insistence of a “policy change,” there were many students who were hurt by this apparent lack of stu­dent body unity. many made the argument that all of the progress the university has made to this very point may in large part be accredited to its successful and withstand­ing football program: that is, sports and academics went hand-in-hand in bringing notre dame thus far, allowing us to be held in such high esteem as the prestigious uni­versity that we are. 
in light of this perspective, i feel that it is not only beneficial, but almost necessary to look at succeeding in the classroom similarly to succeeding out on the field and out on the court. as freshmen, we all had to make “the cut” to be part of the organization — we had to qualify ourselves in tryouts (the applica­tion process). ever since we’ve come onto campus, we have had to prove ourselves worthy of being here day after day, exam after exam. Kobe bryant once said in an interview that “everything negative — pres­sure, challenges — is all an opportunity for me to rise.” every exam, is an opportunity to rise and prove ourselves. and if we didn’t do well on the last one, then you can bet that the next one will be the shot at redemption. 
i underwent a large part of the summer reading Tim grover’s “relentless: From good to great to unstoppable.” in this book, the legendary trainer implores his readers to adopt a relentless attitude in any aspect of their lives that they wish to truly excel at, to be a “cleaner” about it. no excuses, put your head down and do the work every single day. To me, this directly screams out “notre dame academics” — though we are all un­deniably rooting for each other to succeed, we are all in the fight for our lives to excel in the classroom. if we don’t succeed, then there are more than 17,000 people who are dying to take your spot. 
last year, i looked to our football team as they underwent their almost magical regular season of 12-0 as inspiration in each of my classes. week after week, many ana­lysts and talking heads predicted (perhaps even hoped) that we would suffer our first loss of the season. yet week after week, we prevailed. Thus, i thought to myself, if they could succeed week after week, i can too. 
no excuses, do the work, and prevail de­spite what may be said against you. That’s what sports has taught me, and that’s the same attitude i intend to continue to bring to the classroom, as well as any other aspect of my life. any other attitude will just likely get me benched. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 
notre dame is an incredible place, but this school is not perfect. 
and we don’t have to be perfect, either. 
in light of mental health awareness week, The observer ran a series of stories addressing mental health issues at notre dame and saint mary’s. we spoke with staff, faculty and, perhaps most impor­tantly, students about dealing with these challenges on each campus. The following is what these conver­sations revealed. 
Faculty, staff and students alike often feel stressed, anxious and overwhelmed. we feel burdened by situ­ations outside of our control. sometimes, we are not even sure why we feel what we feel, but we know that something is not right. and sometimes, this anxiety or depression is a daily reality, and recovery isn’t a quick fix, but a lifelong battle. 
perhaps because we are at a university filled with high-achievers and go-getters, sometimes we are em­barrassed to admit we are struggling. we worry that to do so would mean we have failed to take care of ourselves, and we fear that seeking help is a sign of weakness. in reality, nothing could be further from the truth. 
depression, anxiety, eating disorders, obsessive-compulsive disorder and other mental illnesses are just that: illnesses. like a case of the flu or strep throat, facing a mental health issue just means that something in your body is off-kilter and needs to be addressed. seeking help from others is often the most effective way to alleviate the problem and to get back on your feet. it is one of the most honorable and courageous steps a person who is struggling can take. 
notre dame and saint mary’s provide many re­sources for members of our community who face mental health challenges. The university counseling center (ucc) and women’s health at saint mary’s provide free counseling sessions. rectors, assistant rectors and resident assistants (ras) can listen and support students. many professors and holy cross clergy members also welcome conversations with students about any issues they may face. 
The most valuable resources that we have, how­ever, are our fellow students. we call ourselves “the notre dame family” because we support, care about and look out for one another. we are a community that values each other’s happiness above all else. 
if you are struggling with a mental health issue, no matter how big or how small, you are not failing. 
you are not broken. 

and you certainly are not fighting this battle alone. 
reach out to someone. mention to a friend that you’re having a hard time. chat with your ra. call the ucc and tell a counselor what’s going on. 
believe that you are worthy of feeling better. Know that you deserve whatever support you feel you may need. even though not everyone might fully under­stand what you are going through, we are here to listen. 
notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross student governments collaborated this week to organize mental health-related events for our community. The theme they chose serves as a poignant reminder of the most important aspect of facing a mental health issue on campus: 
no matter who you are or what you’re going through, we’ve got your back. 
lETTER TO ThE EDITOR 
detroit on the road to resurgence 
mr. newman, 

i found your oct. 8 column ‘detroit: a city out of gas’ extremely disturbing. while you recite facts dealing with various facets of daily life facing metro detroiters in addition to the ongoing bankruptcy, you claim that “there is relatively little detroit can do at this point to solve its mess.” opinionated statements masked as fact like this are precisely the reason why detroit has be­come a symbol of both negativity and urban decay. 
because, mr. newman, if you’ve ever spent signifi­cant time in the motor city, you’d see the beautifica­tion of the downtown area within the past decade to attract businesses, restaurants, and in turn, people, to areas like the renaissance center’s riverwalk, campus martius and greektown. you’d see the pockets of artists, inventors and urban planners whose effect has been so profound on the city, you’d think you’re in the haight­ashbury district or greenwich village. you’d see our three downtown-based sports teams (go Tigers!) sell 
QuOTE OF ThE DAY 
“civilization is a method of living, an attitude of equal respect for all men.” 
Jane Addams American social worker, sociologist, and suffragist 
out nearly all of their regular season games despite the recession that has affected every detroiter. 
you fail to mention dan gilbert, chairman of Quicken loans, who consciously decided in 2010 to move its headquarters to detroit. you fail to mention bill pulte, whose detroit blight authority organization has prom­ised to restore neighborhoods outside of midtown’s established cultural hub. you fail to mention mike duggan, a man one mayoral election away from turning a new page for the city’s administration. 
it’s clear, mr. newman, that you’ve never spent signif­icant time in the city, because if you had, you wouldn’t see a hopeless “city out of gas.” you’d see a bruised, jabbed, down-and-out, underdog town taking baby steps in the road to resurgence. 
Adam Llorens 
class of 2014 siegfried hall oct. 11 




The things I’ll remember 
congress runs the country. in reflecting on 
Matt Miklavic 

the diminishing time i have left here, how-
The maine idea 

ever, i also think of the two plus years had at 
“you’re almost halfway done with the semester, then you’re abroad, then you’re a senior.” 
when my little sister said this to me over the phone a few weeks ago, she probably didn’t think anything of it. she probably didn’t realize it stopped me cold and made me check the calendar a few times to con­firm she was right. she didn’t know that it gave me that same queasy feeling i got the time my sisters left a bottle of nair where the shampoo usually was and i realized it mid-lather. she didn’t realize it made me feel ridiculously old all of a sudden, and the fact that she just turned 18 on wednesday (happy birthday Katie!) didn’t help me feel any younger. 
i’m agonizingly aware that the length of my time in college only grows shorter every time i cross another week off the calendar. i realize i’m getting closer to graduation as i watch the same people i once partied with now roam the halls as ras, extermi­nating the wicked evils of loud music and ping pong balls that threaten the sanctity of notre dame and eliminating alcohol with the same ruthless efficiency with which notre dame. and there stands a mountain of memories. 
i’ll remember meeting my section and the countless tales and adventures since that have made them some of the best friends i could ever find. i’ll remember the first week­end of freshman year as we were formally ‘welcomed’ to the section by the upperclass­men. i’ll remember watching one of those same freshmen shatter his elbow while hyp­notized. i’ll remember catalina wine mixers, reggaeTom, and every other crazy tradition we created. i don’t remember a night or two all that clearly, although my friends assured me i had a great time. 
i’ll remember the usF fiasco, the stanford goal line stand, and an incredible trip to the national championship. i’ll remember the struggles and triumphs that professors call tests, late night chats that lasted until morn­ing, and nights full of ridiculousness. i’ll remember that time a bunch of my business friends and i decided to show up to a biology lecture halfway through. i’ll remember how we thought it’d be a great idea to raise our hand during it. 
i won’t remember what i said in a particu­lar discussion section i spent way too much time preparing for, nor can i recall how a random reading check i worried about went in freshman theology. while there’s a lesson to be learned in there somewhere, i should mention that you’ll probably remember your gpa. and if you don’t, the torrent of job and internship applications that awaits will more than gladly remind you. it’s worth working hard. but don’t let it consume you. learn when to push on and when to enjoy life here. There will come a point during some of those late nights when you have to say, in the words of one junior, “you know what? i’m done. we’re all getting degrees. and with that, i’m going to bed.” and with that, enough about the real world and serious stuff. 
i’ll remember staying up way too late try­ing to think of mediocre jokes to put in col­umns. i’ll remember late night runs to steak n’ shake, fitting nine people in a car and its trunk and having one of them jump out at the stoplight on douglas road. i’ll remember teachers that cared, a 9/11 memorial that moved, and classes that inspired. i wish i could tell you i remember learning a lesson or two about time management, but i’m writing this at 4:30 a.m. amidst tweets fea­turing “#noshamenovember” and no less than three youTube videos of flash mobs. apparently, i haven’t much time manage­ment wisdom to share. 
i’ll keep the memories of far too many great moments and people to ever complete­ly list in a 600-900 word column. i’ll keep the friends i’ve made, an indebtedness to notre dame for the two unbelievable years i’ve had and the many more that have yet to come. 
like thousands of seniors, the end of high school brought with it the selection of a yearbook quote. originally, i went with the sage advice of maine’s finest — “license and registration please” — before it was ‘suggested’ i find a different quote. i finally settled on something to the extent of living with no regrets. in retrospect, i can honestly say that in the time i’ve had here none come to mind. i’ll remember the challenges faced, the successes won, and the memories of a lifetime. conclusively, i’ll remember a com­bination of fun, friends and opportunity and i can never imagine topping beyond notre dame. These, ultimately, are the things i will remember. 
Matt Miklavic is a junior studying finance and political science from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He hopes to one day have his own Wikipedia page. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Notre Dame should listen to its Forum 
Richard Klee 
catholic characteristics 

This year has been marked in the notre dame Forum as a year to reflect and learn about the theme of ‘women in leadership’. in a previous column i described the under­representation of women in leadership now at notre dame, where women are outnum­bered by men three to one among executive administrators, nine to one among full pro­fessors, and eleven to one at the highest level of university oversight, the board of Fellows. in this column i would like to present basic information and analysis regarding the un­derrepresentation of women among faculty and graduate students, with a particular focus on female faculty and graduate stu­dents who are parents or who are discerning parenthood. 
in a 2008 study, the university committee on women Faculty and students noted that notre dame had made strides towards better representation of women among tenure-track faculty, but was nonetheless losing ground, relative to its peer schools, in other important respects. The report described the basic problems: “since 2001, the ratio of female faculty at notre dame relative to our association of american universities (aau) peers has dropped by a full 10 percentage points. notre dame has excelled at recruit­ing women at the assistant professor level, but we do not seem to be able to keep them. notre dame continues to lag behind the aau privates at the associate and full professor ranks. relative to our peers, the percentage of full professors has not changed in 10 years.” in the period studied, notre dame in fact did better than its peers in attracting female scholars to a tenure track job, but was signifi­cantly less effective than peers in promotion to tenure, and retention in senior faculty positions. 
The report described several initiatives proven effective at other schools that, if applied at notre dame, would improve the university’s gender climate. several of these initiatives were fully accepted by the president and provost in their response to this report in 2009. some were altered or rejected. i would like to focus on these here. Firstly, the committee recommended expanding high quality child care at notre dame’s ecdc. This recommendation has twice been evaluated by the administration and found too expensive. The administra­tion has not considered other potentially less expensive means to secure childcare, such as vouchers or subsidies offered directly to faculty parents. The result is that faculty and graduate students cannot secure child care at notre dame until the second or third year of their child’s life, depending on waiting lists. 
secondly, the committee had recom­mended a full office to supervise and sup­port the increase of gender diversity at notre dame; this recommendation was altered in implementation by the administration. citing “the current economic climate that counsels against significant administra­tive and bureaucratic expansion” and that a person integrated within the provost’s office with “ focused attention” on gender concerns could better coordinate efforts across the university, a person with part-time focus was designated to supervise this university-wide work. 
in implementation, however, neither the concerns to provide “focused atten­tion”, nor to constrain administrative and bureaucratic costs in tough times, has been maintained. The supervisory person was a year later tasked to be “interim director of the hesburgh libraries”, a position held for over a year. (i do not identify this person, as competency is certainly not in question here, only the administrative structure of the uni­versity.) administrative costs also ballooned, according to foundationcenter.org, as many executive administrators at notre dame saw their compensation double, triple, or qua­druple from 2003 baselines. 
inconsistent attention and poor fund­ing are also a characteristic of the graduate school’s approach to improving conditions for student parents, conditions which typi­cally affect female students more strongly. in 2011, after a year of study on ways to make graduate study more “family friendly”, the graduate council considered a proposal to provide an ‘accommodation policy’ option for student parents following childbirth or adoption, in addition to a medical leave op­tion. This accommodation, however, came with no additional funding. several profes­sors on the council noted “the failure to add a semester of funding … as it is not “family friendly” to lose support as a result of becom­ing a parent.” however the minutes noted that unless there was “buy-in at higher levels of the university administration” no such funding was possible. several years later, this ‘buy-in’ has still not occurred, with the result that the typically female student users of this policy must consume limited academic funding to heal and care for a newborn fol­lowing childbirth. moreover, the minutes record that leadership of the graduate school promised improvements at departmental levels, but i am unaware that any department has made such improvements two years later. 
a university that does not provide basic supports and benefits to female scholars seeking to negotiate the difficult balance of work and family should not be surprised by statistics that show poor retention and pro­motion of women. whether for the graduate school, where the attrition rate for female students is significantly higher than that of male students, and the recruitment of women to doctoral programs lags in most departments, or to improve the representa­tion of women faculty in the tenured and full professor ranks, notre dame must offer more attention, funding, and consistency before it can be confident of its efforts to address the underrepresentation of women. 
Richard Klee is a doctoral candi­date in theology and an undergradu­ate alumnus of the University of Notre Dame. He can be contacted at rklee2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


By GABRIELA LESKUR 
scene writer 

i often remark how this column serves to remove inhibition, allowing me to do things i would normally not think to do or would nor­mally not have the courage to do. 
This week’s dare was to reveal a secret. 
when i first saw this dare, i looked past it, not thinking it was big or bold enough to accept for this column. i thought that it was cliché, something akin to the Truth or dare games we would play in middle school. it was always the courageous people who would take the dares, the rest of us playing it safe by choosing to re­veal a truth. 
but now, as a pseudo-adult, i think that tell­ing the truth is a lot more difficult than going through with a dare. 
This week i faced both head on — accepting a dare to tell the truth. 
———————————— 
notre dame is a campus full of successful students, many of whom are instrumental in social, political, or intellectual change. with so many remarkable people at this school, i often hear my friends describe someone as being perfect. “oh, i love her,” they say. “she’s serious­ly the most perfect human being.” This always makes me pause. 
do we realize what we’re doing when we make these claims of perfection? 
my secret is that this idea of perfection both­ers me — the other secret is why it bothers me. 
whensomeoneiscalled“perfect,”animpos­sible goal is set. unless you are king or queen of the narcissist club, you probably see that there is something about yourself that could use im­provement, that there is some imperfection. 
but if we admit we are flawed, then we admit that we can never be like this “perfect” person. if compared to supposed perfection, we will al­ways fall short. 
it’s so easy for us to look at someone else and assume that they are perfect or compare our­selves to those we see as far better than we are. “she is a better singer than iam.” “he is better at econ than i am.” “They have a better relation­ship than we do.” on and on, these are impos­sible standards. 
The real problem comes with the con­notation that perfection is always the ideal. because no one is, nor ever will be, perfect. no matter how people seem, they have their own struggles, their own demons, their own imperfections. 
The truth is, we all have our own secrets. we all have sides of ourselves that we are afraid to share, sides that aren’t always public. 
perhaps we are afraid of the vulnerability that comes from sharing our true selves with another person, of being judged or ostracized as a consequence. perhaps, at the heart of it all, we are afraid that we will no longer be seen as perfect.but i’ve started asking myself, is that re­ally a bad thing? 
The irish state of mind week has been on my mind for this reason. it’s a week that’s meant to show support for those on campus dealing with mental illness, dealing with their secrets, dealing with their imperfections. 
i think the best way we can support each other is to come to terms and embrace these imperfections, not only in ourselves, but in others. 
i have been told before that people think i’m perfect. i will never claim that to be true. i’m sure that some of you reading this have ample examples of how imperfect i am. 
The reason idislike this idea of imperfection is because i am painfully aware of how im­perfect i am. my struggle with depression and mental illness reminds me constantly of what i lack. 
as the girl who skips down the hallway af­ter getting drenched in the rain, most people would never know this side of me, and hon­estly, i would never tell them. 
but i’ve come to realize that this is not and should not be something to be ashamed of. and no, this struggle does not define me in the way you’d think. 
my imperfections and my struggles make me stronger. i may not have control over the sadness, the cumulus nimbus cloud that hov­ers over my head, but i have control over how i respond to it. i respond to it by remembering how lucky i am, how great notre dame is, how happy i feel to be blessed with such wonder­ful people in my life. i plow through the dark, stormy days, and believe that this too shall pass. 
many people will tell you that i am the girl that walks around saying, “you’re wonderful,” to people. That is because i sincerely and hon­estly feel that way. i am frequently amazed by how wonderful people are. but people aren’t wonderful because they are perfect. They are wonderful, in a big part, because they are flawed. 
being flawed is hard. admitting your flaws is hard. but with that hardship comes something wonderful. if all of us stop being afraid of show­ing our imperfect selves, there comes the pos­sibility of finding people who will love us not in spite of our imperfections, but even more so because of them. 
———————————— 
we cannot keep the storms from coming. sometimes we will be left in the rain, without an umbrella. and honestly, that sucks. but it sucks a little less when you turn your head to­wards the heavens and jump around in the puddles with some great people who don’t mind holding your hand through it all. 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu 

Andrew Gastelum 
editor in chief 

This was supposed to be the chosen year for rap. 
Kanye, Jay Z, drake, Kid cudi, 
J. cole, big sean, danny brown, earl sweatshirt, the list goes on for major studio releases. 2013 was supposed to be the year. but the hype was so big there was no way anyone could possibly live up to it. Kanye’s was maddening. Jay Z was safe. drake’s was soft. cudi’s was … interesting. J. cole’s was preachy. big sean’s was shal­low. and danny brown and earl sweatshirt were just plain weird. 
That’s not to say they weren’t good, but not everyone could agree on the quality of any of these. although there is still some hope for the year with schoolboy Q and, most recently announced, childish gambino, the year has been written off. 
but here’s a warning to you: don’t write off pusha T. 
far. The whole year i was subtly looking forward to oct. 8, but the hype around everyone else put pusha T to the back of everyone’s minds. 
but withthisrap veteran’strack record (he’s one half of the rap duo clipse), i expect this to be sol­id through and through. after all, pusha T was responsible for some of the best features of the last few years, most notably Kanye west’s “runaway” and g.o.o.d. music’s “mercy” and “don’t like.” he has always gone so hard that his vers­es sometimes left you scared, let alone impressed and in awe. 
so, naturally, i expected “my name is my name” to be solid. what i got in return was a sur­prise, something that surpassed my expectations in a year filled with overrated expectations. The thing about this album, it starts with a bang and hardly lets up straight through 12 ability to stand on his own and shine on an album where 10 of the 12 songs have high-profile features such as Jeezy, pharrell, 2 chainz and Future. 

however, the award for best feature surely goes to chris brown, who lays down a beautiful hook to set the tone for the moody, ominous “sweet serenade.” yet a close second goes to Kendrick lamar on “nosetalgia.” with pusha and Kendrick on the same song, there is almost no need for a beat at all. emphasis, as it should be, is placed on the lyrics. 
which brings up another point that makes “my name is my name” so worthy of a listen. it’s pretty simplistic in terms of beat selection (taking a page out of yeezus’ minimalism), yet each song has its unique sound that is far from forgettable like pusha T’s precluding mixtape “wrath of caine.” 
my favorite track hits cleanup. “hold on” featuring rick ross and the auto-tune of Kanye west. simple, to the point and unusually catchy, “hold on” is a masterpiece. one of the strong points of this album is everyone will have a song he or she thinks is the best, yet even those who dis­agree would probably consider the option. 
however, i wish the release was 10 tracks instead of 12. songs with Kelly rowland (“let me love you”) and The dream (“40 acres”) stray so far from what pusha T does best that it takes away from the album. 
it may not be the best release of the year (thanks, chance the rapper) but it has salvaged a summer of expectations unful­filled and gives the howard st. Food mart something to bump. 
all hail King push, yeeeagh. 


“My Name Is My Name” 
Artist: Pusha T Record Label: GOOD Music Genre: Hip Hop 




By DANIEL BARABASI 
scene writer 
men 

guys, let’s be honest, jeans dry, shirts dry, so really the only thing you should be worrying about are your shoes. so there’s three directions to go with this: you wear leather shoes, maximizing class, and spray them with the water-resistant sprays until those babies could be your own personal noah’s ark. still, when these beauties get wet they need to dry, but don’t burn them with a hairdryer, that messes with the 
By ERIN MCAULIFFE 
scene writer 
Women 

hey ladies, just because it’s raining cats and dogs doesn’t mean you can’t look spiffy enough to make it rain men! let’s forgo the hunter boots, leggings, and raincoat uni­form for a bit and delve into some unique fashion options for when the weather isn’t cooperating. 
so it’s 8:24 a.m. and you’re sleeping in your bed at your dorm, even though you’re sup­posed to be sleeping in your desk at calculus. To make matters worse it’s raining and you have no idea what to wear. That is when you turn to this article (which i’m sure you will have framed on your wall). here are two go­to outfit options that will ensure you never end up in class looking anything less than fetch. 
don’t let rain be an excuse to dress down. 
stitching, leave them at room tempera­ture and if you have shoe trees, add those. if you’re too fearful of your leather kicks, get some rubber on your feet. i’m not talk­ing rain boots, unless it’s actually the great Flood outside, but maybe some rub­ber sneakers or ankle-height boots. if you want to see some inspiration, check out hunter’s latest bakerson sneakers, drool, then cry as you realize that they’re prob­ably too expensive for a college budget. lastly, if none of these sound appealing, you can grab some rubber overshoes that slip on top of your normal shoes. when do you think beyoncè wakes up, looks out­side, and says, “it’s raining so i don’t need to be fabulous today”? no. you’ve got to work it all day, everyday, no matter the weather. don’t be afraid to dress up. a look i love is sundresses with rain boots. To transition this look into fall just add tights or over-the-knee socks. as pictured, i experimented with a monochromatic look. i pulled out the ox­blood color in the dress with tights and boots of the same color (tip: matching your tights with your shoes does wonders for lengthen­ing your legs). 
if dresses aren’t your thang, an army green parka is a practical wardrobe staple. if you’ve ever watched “what not to wear” (you have, don’t lie to yourself), you’ve heard from clinton and stacy that neutrals entail navy, black, brown, white, and khaki. i would ven­ture to expand this ideal to entail army green as the new neutral. This color (along with the more daring camo print) has been seen on 
heading out, slip them on, then when you get back inside you can slip them off and watch your friends envy your dry feet. 
if you really want to keep your upper body dry, grab an umbrella and rain-re­sistant upper garment. The rules on um­brellas are simple for us guys: black, with a wooden, or wood-imitation, cane han­dle. The umbrella-proof solution works with taste. my favorite piece on the rainy days is a light brown or cream trench coat, which dresses up any outfit, and keeps you dry underneath. if you’re looking for a more casual look, find a darker-colored the runways ofphilliplim,michael Kors, and prabal gurung for Fall 2013. i love pairing this color with burgundy, plum, or leopard print. i dressed our lovely model, maddy, in an olive parka with a fun scarf and versatile striped shirt. we added dark-wash jeans and boots and whoomp, there it is. 
To get these looks even more rainy-day­ready, add an umbrella. not only are these life-savers when you have to trek across cam­pus in the rain, but they also can help make you friends! Take a tip from ri-ri and if you see someone stuck in the downpour, offer them some refuge. who knows, this could spark a newfound friendship! 
in typical notre dame fashion (no pun intended), here’s an equation for the perfect rainy day outfit: fun umbrella + neutral boots 
+ practical yet chic outfit = bright outcome. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
“classic” rain jacket, which you can keep on even if the rain stops, just unzip it halfway. 
in conclusion, i have just one thing to ask. don’t wear neon. you can throw on a brighter rain jacket, if you have to, but just don’t go bright on bright on bright just to try to add some happiness among the clouds. i’ll tell you now, it doesn’t make anyone any happier. we’re already dreary, you’re just burning our eyes. 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 

By JUAN CANCIO 
scene writer 

in recent news, Kanye has garnered a lot of attention (surprise, surprise) for his tirade on Jimmy Kimmel. The Tv personality aired a comedic skit on his late night program that poked fun at what Kanye had said in a bbc inter­view; unfortunately, Kanye took great offense to said skit and, in a way, took this skit as an affront to what he stood for as a human being. 
in the skit, the rapper was portrayed by a young child spewing all kinds of profanity and saying things which quite frankly did portray Kanye in a rather ri­diculous light. Kanye responded to this skit by tweeting a slew of crazy things, most of which i undoubtedly cannot publish in this article due to their pro­fane nature and many others which were nonsensical productions of his rage. he attacked Jimmy Kimmel for 
ERIN MCAULIFFE | THE OBSERVER 

having aired the skit, and even went on to call mr. Kimmel personally to re­quest a public apology. 
after this very public fight with Kimmel, Kanye agreed to make an ap­pearance on “Jimmy Kimmel live” in order to bury the hatchet. his appear­ance on the show gave context to not only why he took so much offense to the skit, but also some personal his­tory that he and Kimmel shared which apparently gravened his feelings of of­fense. in the interview, Kanye showed a surprisingly human side of himself that often times we as the “audience” of ce­lebrities’ antics are not able to see. The candid perspective of who this mega-personality really is when all the flash­ing lights cut to dark was surprisingly refreshing and interesting to say the least. 
although it is probably fair to say that Kanye can be a little too boisterous and caustic at times, it should be evident to most why Kanye took such great of­fense to the skit. This is not to say that the tweets and their content were ex­cusable, because they did seem to blow things greatly out of proportion, but it is certainly understandable why any adult might be offended by being por­trayed as a child. 
Kanye without a doubt has a gran­diose self-image, which some might argue he has no right to, but he spoke to Kimmel as a human being with real aspirations and dreams that he was try­ing to pursue and achieve through his art. he spoke about his past and pres­ent ventures in other art forms apart from rap, mainly fashion, and how he believed he could change the world for the better through said mediums. he made allusions to how he was try­ing to change the fashion scene as a whole by being an influential figure in this community, not only as a dy­namic mover-and-shaker but also as an african-american, citing that his breakout success in this world was akin to michael Jackson’s success at becom­ing the first african-american to have his videos featured on mTv. 
For any Kanye fans out there, or for anyone else looking to get a deeper per­spective of what goes on inside of celeb­rities’ minds, i would suggest taking a quick peek at the interview. admittedly, it is arguable that Kanye could have been putting on a show both during his tweeting and the supposed reconcilia­tion that occurred afterwards; however, it is up to you as the audience to decide whether his candor is real or not. in the end, it is hard to argue the point that Kanye does succeed at garnering a lot of attention, but as to whether or not his class and social criticisms actually do make a difference could be debatable. 
Contact Juan Cancio at jcancio@nd.edu 

SPORTS AuThORITY 

If your team loses, cheer for underdogs 

Isaac Lorton 
sports writer 
watching the mlb playoffs with my friends, i have come to realize there is no relationship like the one be­tween a fan and his or her team. 
one of my roommates is a die-hard cardinals fan and is currently basking in his first-round victory over the pirates. Two others are red sox fans, also pleased with their results over the rays. 
Through the first round, my friends have put off countless hours of home­work, streamed games in class and exhausted their respective team’s colors. 
This may seem a bit ex­treme to some, or as my friend so eloquently put it, “i love my family, i love my friends and i love my teams.” 
a sports team is always there for you and gives you something to cheer for despite any other circum­stances going on in life. sports become an outlet. even if your team is terrible, you hope for its success more than you hope for anything else at that moment. you hope for hope’s sake. 
what happens, though, when your team did not make or is no longer in the playoffs? 
as a diamondbacks fan, my team is unfortunately finished for the year, but come next year arizona will be hosting up the commissioner’s Trophy (just watch, it will happen). now i have to watch the dastardly dodgers win their first-round series, and it sickens me but that’s besides the point.  
as a baseball fan, i con­tinue to watch the playoff games, but not with the same fervor as i would have if the d-backs were still going. when my team is not play­ing, i always choose the un­derdog — and so should you. 
The dodgers are like the yankees of the national league: you are either from la and love them or you hate them with an intense, unrivaled and unbridled pas­sion. i am of the latter group. They swam in our pool and i hope they pay for it. 
recently, the cardinals have been a baseball power­house, making three world series appearances in the last 10 years and winning two of those. although the cardinals go about their business in a professional manner and i have the ut­most respect for yadier molina, i was sad to see the pirates go. 
The red sox may have been an excellent choice in 2004, but now they are old news. no longer does the world series drought or The curse of the bambino hold my sym­pathy. They are just another deep-pocketed team of the al east (but they will never be as bad as the yankees). 
detroit is a tough case. it has made it to the world series twice now in the past 10 years — in 2006 and 2012 
— but has come up short both times. The Tigers’ last world series win was in 1984, which is a strong case for an underdog, but unfortunately for them, they are playing the athletics. 
since the pirates were eliminated, the athletics were the team everyone without a team left should be rooting for. The athletics have not made a world series appearance since 1990 and haven’t won a series since 1989 and won’t this year after losing to the Tigers in game 5 on Thursday night. 
like i said, there is a spe­cial relationship between a fan and his or her team, but if that team is no longer play­ing, the fan will (or should) choose the team that hasn’t always been successful. it may be cliché, but the under­dog stories are the best. 
if your team can’t win, you might as well root for the team that needs the most hope. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ND WOmEN’S SWImmING 

irish aim for success again 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 

notre dame will look to build off last year’s tremen­dous season when they kick off the 2013-14 campaign this Friday at the dennis stark relays. 
last year’s team had suc­cess in nearly every category, whether it was swimming or diving, relays or individuals. irish coach brian barnes said last year was as good as any season he could remember. 
“we had a fantastic year,” barnes said. “i think it’s as good a year as we’ve ever had. we had our highest placing ever at the ncaa championships when we came in the 16th, we had 10 all-americans and we broke nine school records.” 
in addition to all the ac­colades barnes mentioned, the irish also had the big east swimmer of the year, big east diver of the year, big east diving coach of the year, and big east swimming coach of the year. 
with all the success the team enjoyed last year, it would be only natural to as­sume this year’s squad would want to replicate the same success. however, barnes said he is looking for this year’s team to surpass last year’s achievements. 
“you don’t try and duplicate it, you try to do better than that, and that’s really what it comes down to,” barnes said. “right now, it’s to be seen whether we have the team that can be better than 16th in the country. i think we do, i think we have a very good team this year. now this is october, so we have to get our act together so we can get in position where we can have a heck of a year.” 
barnes said he believes this team has the potential to be even better than last year, but noted that there are always changes that need to be made. 
“i do believe in this team and the girls on this team, and i think we can do that, but to 

FOR SALE 

3BR 2 BA House for Sale minutes from campus. Pituresque yard, open concept, fireplace, full basement, at­tached 2 car garage. Open House Sun 2-4. 4411 Garden Oak Dr., SB 46628 Heidi May 574-310-4663 
TICKETS 

USC 4 tix for sale. Call 609-471-9511 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT 

Great location. Loft apartment 4 rent 2 block E of campus. $450/mo + electric. For pics and details sharonis­back4ever@yahoo.com 
USC-ND apt 4 rent. Sleeps 6. Fully furnished. 2 blocks E of campus. For pricing/pix/details sharonisback4ev­er@yahoo.com 
USC - RV parking still available. 2 blks E of campus. Pricing/pix/de­tails sharonisback4ever@yahoo.com 

improve upon that we have to make changes, and that’s re­ally what athletics is,” barnes said. “if you want to get better, something has to change. you can’t do what you did last year and expect to be better this year.” 
while he believes the team will be very successful this year, barnes refused to put any concrete goals on the table. 
“if you want an answer based on what outcome’s go­ing to be, i can’t really answer that,” barnes said. “we’ll see. we’ll see what the outcome is, but my expectations for this team are that we work hard, we do everything we can do to the best of our ability, we’re going to do what’s right, and we’re going to be good to one another.” 
in order for the irish to reach the heights barnes believes they can, he will look to his most experienced swimmers to lead the team. 
“[Junior] emma reaney, [ju­nior] bridget casey, [senior] Kelly ryan, [sophomore] cat galletti, those four are retun­ing ncaa swimmers,” barnes said. “The senior class, the entire class, i expect them to lead, but i think predominant­ly most of our leadership is go­ing to come from in the water, it’s going to come from the ones with the most experience at the ncaa level.” 
reaney has already earned all-american honors and has swam at the ncaa championships, but barnes believes the best is yet to come for the junior. 
“emma reaney swam this summer, she was 21st in the world at the 200-yard breast­stroke,” barnes said. “she’s a legitimately awesome swim­mer, and she’s getting her head on straight. i’m not saying it’s never not been on straight, but what i’ve seen in the water, i’m super excited for her and what is to come.” 
in addition to reaney and the rest of the upperclassmen, this year’s incoming freshmen have the potential to impress, barnes said. 
“i like them,” barnes said. “i like them, but freshmen are unpredictable. i’m cautious to do too much commenting on freshmen. everybody thinks you do the recruiting thing, but you don’t really know them until you get them on campus. but i like this freshman class.” 
The squad will kick off their season Friday at the dennis stark relays at rolfs aquatics center at 5 p.m. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
“Country Girl (Shake It for Me)” -Luke Bryan 
“Shake it for the young bucks sit-tin’ in the honky-tonks/ For the red­necks rockin’ ‘till the break of dawn/ for the d.j spinning that country song/ c’mon c’mon c’mon/ Shake it for the birds/ shake it for the bees/ shake it for the catfish swimming down deep in the creek/ for the crickets/ and the critters/ and the squirrels/ shake it for the moon/ shake it for me girl/ country girl shake it for me/ girl shake it for me/ girl shake it for me/ country girl shake it for me” 



mEN’S INTERhAll 

Dawgs face Manor, look to keep undefeated record 
Keenan hopes to stay undefeated against Big Red; Duncan to fight for first win vs. Knott 
rhythm on offense behind fresh-except for a hail mary pass at 
By EVAN ANDERSON 

sports writer man running back Zach dodd. the end of the game. senior “Zach is very physical, and he defensive lineman and team 
alumni looks to complete an runs hard,” russell said. “he’s captain nathaniel steele said undefeated regular season this also a great tackler on defense.” that dillon must improve on sunday, while morrissey seeks sorin comes in to the game offense to ensure a win this to build on the momentum gar-with the same record as carroll week. nered by earning its first win of but has only played one official “we’ve struggled offensively the season last weekend. game. despite this, senior cap-for most of the season,” steele 
The dawgs (3-0) won in dra-tain and lineman dan yi said said. “we made another ad­matic fashion last sunday to the team is prepared to come out justment to our offensive line seize control of their own destiny ready as ever. [at halftime that]… culminat­in the division standings, recov-“everyone knows what is on ed in consecutive first downs ering a fumble in the end zone the line with playoff implications on all three of our possessions with a minute remaining for a and seeding,” yi said. “carroll is a that half.” 10-7 victory over previously un-different team than Zahm would steele, however, said he has beaten siegfried. senior receiver have been and Fisher was, with a few concerns about the other and captain Jeffrey Kraemer said highly capable offense.” side on the ball. he felt the team’s experience as a result, yi said the otter “our defense has been a in tight games would serve the defense is playing around with rock,” steele said. team well going forward. multiple new schemes. on both The matchup between dillon 
“it’s always good to know that sides of the ball, however, he said and Keenan will take place you’ve been through it before,” to look out for senior captain and at 1 p.m. sunday afternoon at Kraemer said. “we are going to lineman Taylor nutter. riehle fields. keep doing what we are doing “Taylor was disappointed with and continue to play physical. his game against Fisher,” yi said. Contact Zach Klonsinki at Stanford vs. Keough Zahm vs. Fisher … we feel like we can play with “watch out, he will be doing big zklonsin@nd.edu 
By JOSÉ FERNÁNDEZ By CORNELIUS McGRATH 
anyone.” things against carroll.” sports writer sports writer The manor (1-1) also won in carroll and sorin will battle for Knott vs. Duncan exciting fashion, taking the lead the playoffs this sunday at 3:30 in a game between two This sunday’s game be-
By MEGAN WINKEL 

on a last-minute touchdown p.m. at stepan fields. sports writer teams coming off close losses, tween Fisher and Zahm will run by junior quarterback ryan Keough and stanford will look be crucial, as both teams long lindquist, before sealing the Contact Brian Plamondon at duncan and Knott face off to right the ship on sunday. for a win that would give their 22-12 win over duncan with bplamond@nd.ed on sunday as both teams fight Keough (2-1) lost a tough teams a much needed mental a 70-yard interception return to make the playoffs. game against Keenan last boost. touchdown. Dillon vs. Keenan The highlanders (0-2) and week, and is looking to move The green wave (1-0-2) are 
morrissey junior offensive the Juggerknotts (0-2) have the ball offensively and give looking to build some momen-
By ZACH KLONSINKI 

lineman and captain patrick sports writer had rough starts to the sea-their defense some breathing tum after their convincing vic­valencia said he was thrilled to son, with both sides winless room, according to senior cap-tory against st edwards last see his offense start to click in in a battle for potential play-after two games. a victory in tain and quarterback seamus weekend. Junior captain and the second half. off seeding, Keenan looks to this game could be a lifeline to donegan. after a game in linebacker matthew nagy said 
“after a couple weeks of prac-remain undefeated when it the playoff race, and duncan which the Kangaroos offense he hopes they continue their tice, we were finally able to exe-faces off with dillon. junior captain alan Keck said did not get a first down in the strong play against Zahm (0-2). cute in the second half,” valencia The Knights (2-0) are coming they are clinging to that hope first half, donegan said he “This was our best game yet said. “i think if we can continue off a 7-0 win over Keough play “our goal for the season was recognizes the offense needs this season” nagy said “our of-to do that and focus on the little in last weekend’s bad weather. to make playoffs, and that’s some work. fense looked really strong and things, we will be on the winning sophomore quarterback pat not looking great right now, “our defense is great, but i hope they can perform again end again.” corry found freshman receiver but i think if we concentrate on offense we need to get back this week” 
The dawgs and manor face michael Koller for the game’s on doing the little things rights to basics,” donegan said. “we Fisher’s offense only scored off sunday at 2:15 p.m. at riehle only score. Keenan did make we have a good shot at staying are a very balanced team but three points prior to their game Fields, with alumni gunning to other visits to the red zone competitive in this game and we missed some personnel in against st. edward’s, but nagy clinch a division title. during sunday’s game, and se-pulling out a win,” Keck said. our last game; we’re going to said he believes that the tide 
nior receiver and team captain although Keck said duncan get back to our game instead has turned for the offense, and Contact Evan Anderson at Jeremy riche said the Knights did not start out how it wanted of just scrambling around.” that the green wave’s defense eander11@nd.edu have to finish those opportuni-to, he said he believes the team stanford (0-2) is coming can continue to dominate. 
ties this week. has improved since then. off a bye week after losing to “whilst we did not put many Carroll vs. Sorin “we had a lot of opportuni-“we’ve taken a lot of strides o’neill in a low scoring affair. points on the board our first ties on offense either in the from where we started and we senior captain ruben carrion two games, our defense only 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 

sports writer red zone or just throughout continue to improve,” Keck said offense was a priority this conceded three points a piece” the game that we didn’t nec-said. past week as they prepared for said nagy “They have been our 
carroll and sorin are set to essarily convert on,” riche Knott senior captain aaron the Kangaroos. biggest strength all season and showdown sunday in a game said. “That’s been an empha-weber also said he believes “offense has definitely been i hope they are just as resilient that holds serious playoff im-sis on this week’s practice so that the team as a whole has our main struggle thus far,” against Zahm” plications. The vermin (1-0-1) far, capitalizing on all our improved since the beginning carrion said. “hopefully after Zahm on the other hand is are coming off of a 14-8 victo-possessions.” of the season. even if Knott this bye week we can develop hoping to put last week’s for­ry against st. edwards, while riche said he was pleased is out of the running for the an ability to make big plays feited game behind it, and the otters (1-0-1) recently with the shutout by the playoffs after sunday’s game, and stay consistent through-senior co-captain and offen­won by forfeit over Zahm. Knights’ defense, especially in weber said the team looks for-out the game.” sive line Joseph rice said the 
carroll senior captain and the bad weather. ward to the rest of the season. he went on to say that even Zahmbies would be ready to lineman mike russell said he “our physical toughness “we look to keep people though the griffins’ next play this weekend has noticed a change in the definitely showed in the sloppy motivated and appreciate the game is going to be tough, “They are a pretty good side tempo at practice leading up weather last week,” riche said. sport and the camaraderie, his offense and defense will but the goal is always to com-to the big game. “That’s all about intensity on and not necessarily focus on be ready to get their first win pete and to get the win” said 
“we want to have a good defense and chemistry and the win or loss records,” weber of the season. rice “i truly believe we have mental attitude going into playing with each other.” said. Keough and stanford will the talent in our roster to do the game and are looking dillon (2-1) won a hard Knott and duncan will both look to get their offenses so” to come out with intensity,” fought battle last week against battle for their first victory of rolling when they face off The Zahmbies will take on russell said. o’neill, 13-7. led by freshman the season sunday at 2:15 p.m. sunday at 1 p.m. at rhiele the green wave this sunday at 
russell said the vermin cornerback nick bielanski’s at riehle Fields. fields. 3.30pm at riehle Fields. want to reduce the pres-interception returned for a sure on their defense, which touchdown, the big red held Contact Megan Winkel at Contact José Fernández at Contact Cornelius McGrath he said starts with finding a the opposing offense scoreless mwinkel@nd.edu jfernan9@nd.edu cmcgrat2@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER  11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOmEN’S INTERhAll 

Pangborn and Ryan clash as unbeatens 
Badin and Breen-Phillips seek first wins; Cavanaugh and Pasquerilla East face off in premier matchup 
Techar said. “when we insti-by working on our one-on-one 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 

sports writer tuted those in games, it worked coverages.” well.” henke said welsh Family 
with four wins in their re-badin will look to senior Kelly wants to continue improv­spective record books thus far, harmon to anchor the defense ing on both sides of the ball pangborn and ryan both aim to while junior receiver brianna as its season wraps up. Junior remain undefeated when they leon will be a focal point of the receiver molly Knapp is a key square off sunday. offensive unit, Techar said. player the whirlwinds believe 
pangborn (4-0) hopes to con-The chicks (1-3) hope to build can contribute to push their tinue its success this season on their first victory of the sea-offense to the next level of and build off last sunday’s 27-6 son, a 6-0 win over Farley on competitiveness. victory over howard. phoxes monday. “we’re looking to make sure senior captain and offensive “our defense stepped up that we do what we can to make lineman mary Kate veselik said [against Farley] and we were the playoffs and play our hearts the team planned to improve able to defend their best receiv-out while doing so,” henke said. the little things in practice this ers, putting pressure on the The whirlwinds and babes week. quarterback,” lewis senior cap-will go head-to-head sunday at 
“we’ve really got to work on tain and receiver colleen haller 5 p.m. at labar Fields. achieving long yardage plays on said. “our offense had a better offense, as well as making sure completion rate, though we still Contact Manny De Jesus at the defense knows each play look to improve offensively, es-mdejesus@nd.edu call assigned,” veselik said. pecially with pass protection.” 
ryan (4-0), coming off a 31-6 lewis’s win monday night Cavanaugh vs. victory against howard on was a team effort, haller said, as Pasquerilla East monday night, plans to bring she stressed that no one player 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 

lots of intensity against the could be viewed above the rest sports writer phoxes, senior captain andrea on the chicks’ deep roster. howard vs. mcGlinn Farley vs. lyons carlson said. “we used three quarterbacks cavanaugh and pasquerilla 
By ALEXANDRA LANE By MATTHEW GARCIA 
“our keys to winning on and had a lot of players step east will face off sunday in a sports writer sports writer sunday are simple: stay fo-up,” haller said. “we’ve been clash of two explosive offenses. cused, stay consistent and play using everybody and nobody The chaos (3-1) and the pyros mcglinn and howard will face coming off a pair of Tuesday our hearts out,” carlson said. in particular, with lots of peo-(3-1) both lost to undefeated di-each other sunday in what looks night shutout losses, both Farley “we just need to play to our full ple stepping into roles when vision rival pasquerilla west, to be a game between two evenly and lyons will aim to regroup potential.” necessary.” and both teams have talented matched teams. this weekend when the two 
both pangborn and ryan badin and lewis will face off offenses that look to test the op-mcglinn (2-2) is moving in a teams meet sunday. recognize the importance of at labar Fields this sunday at 6 ponent’s defense. cavanaugh’s positive direction lately, win-lyons (2-3) was shut down sunday’s game, as one team p.m. offense is led by junior quar-ning its two most recent games against pasquerilla east on will remain undefeated while terback sam Flores, who has after dropping the first two. Tuesday, as the lions allowed the other will suffer its first loss Contact Alex Carson at helped the chaos put up a senior receiver Tara crown said pyros junior quarterback macy of the season. acarson1@nd.edu strong scoring front. the shamrocks would look to mulhall to put up big numbers. 
carlson said ryan fresh-“our offense has really taken add to that winning record this lyons did not have a deep bench man quarterback Kathleen Breen-Phillips vs. Welsh off in the past few games, and sunday. for the matchup, which hindered conaty would be a factor for the Family we’ve been putting up a lot “we got off to a shaky start,” the team from making a run in wildcats in sunday’s matchup. of points,” cavanaugh senior crown said. “our first two games the 32-0 loss. 
By MANNY DE JESUS 

“i have a ton of confidence in sports writer captain and middle linebacker were losses, but we are starting lyons senior captain and re-Kathleen,” carlson said. “she meaghan ayers said. “i think to play much better.” ceiver christina bramanti said can throw the ball deep down welsh Family will face breen-that has a lot to do with get-crown said sophomore quar-she does not use the lack of depth the field and make quick, smart phillips on sunday in a late sea-ting more confidence and team terback Katherine petrovich as an excuse for the lions’ per-plays”. son matchup, as both teams chemistry.” emerged as a leader, keying the formance, but admitted that 
veselik said the phoxes know look to finish their seasons pasquerilla east senior cap-team’s success, and she feels with only eight players available how well ryan has played and strong after close losses in their tain and defensive lineman confident in her team looking for the team, the personnel battle plan to establish smarter play last games. caroline Kuse said that with ahead to sunday’s game. was not in its favor. calls to outwit the wildcats’ breen-phillips (0-4) hopes to the presence of junior quarter-“i know howard is a good “There was only one sub for defense. gain success through the air back macy mulhall, senior run-team, but i hope we can build on everybody,” bramanti said. 
“This will be our toughest this week with its new freshman ning back Kiah schaefbauer the positive momentum we have “playing against a big team like game yet,” veselik said. “it’ll be quarterback, emily affinito, and a host of receivers, the pyro right now,” crown said. the pyros, they can get fresh legs interesting to see how two very senior captain and linebacker offense has pulled its weight as howard freshman offensive in there.” talented teams will clash on the molly mcnerney said. in the well. linemen catherine Finney and as for defense, flag pulling was field.” babes’ last contest, affinito “i think more so than years sierra hajdu said their team is a focal point for the lions in prac-
The phoxes and wildcats will drove breen-phillips’ offense past, we’ve kind of let the skills also excited about this week’s tice this week, bramanti said. duke it out sunday at 4 p.m. at down the field and scored on a of our team dictate the system game. They said they know this “There were so many times labar Fields. 62-yard rushing touchdown. of our team,” Kuse said. “The game is important for the ducks’ when the defense was where we 
“we’ve been practicing talent we have drives our offen-playoff chances. needed to be, but we just couldn’t Contact Rebecca Rogalski at our offensive rhythm with sive and our defensive plans.” “The team is really talented,” get the flag,” bramanti said. rrogalsk@nd.edu [affinito],”  mcnerney said. “we as the winner of sunday’s hadju said of howard. “The up-“That’s something we’re going to 
did well with her last game, so matchup may be able to chal-perclassmen especially all play work on this week.” Badin vs. lewis hopefully we can produce the lenge pasquerilla west for the really well together.” The lions defense may have an same results.” top spot in the division, the “we have high expectations easier task this week when it fac-
By ALEX CARSON 

sports writer breen-phillips will also rely game will be surrounded by going into this game,” Finney es the Finest (1-3), who were shut on freshman receiver Kaheke playoff implications. said. out Tuesday against lewis. with 
badin will look to score its martinson for big plays, “cavanaugh is our biggest Finney and hadju named just six points over the last two first win of the year, while lewis mcnerney said. competition in the bracket after howard’s captain, senior quar-weeks, Farley’s offense has strug­will aim for its second victory in The whirlwinds (1-3) are try-[pasquerilla west],” Kuse said. terback clare robinson, as the gled to put points on the board. a row when the two teams meet ing to get their offense jump-“i know they are really disci-leader of their team. in fact, lyons and Farley have sunday. started this week by working plined, so we’ll have to match “[robinson] is really dedicat-been outscored by a combined 
badin (0-4) has just one on precision in practice, senior that same dedication and in-ed to the team and a really good margin of 96-19 over the past two touchdown to its name this captain and linebacker carissa tensity in our game.” player for us,” Finney said. weeks. both teams will look to season, but sophomore cap-henke said. cavanaugh and pasquerilla The shamrocks and the ducks turn their offenses around when tain and quarterback Kristina “we’ve been working on of-east kick off sunday at 5 p.m. at will match up at labar Fields on they square off sunday at 6 p.m. Techar said her team is still fensive plays and making sure labar Fields. sunday at 4 p.m. at labar Fields. working hard to get better. they are being run as precisely 
“we’ve really focused on a as possible,” henke said. “we’re Contact Renee Griffin at Contact Alexandra Lane at Contact Matthew Garcia at few plays we needed to make,” also fine tuning our defense rgriffi6@nd.edu alane2@nd.edu mgarci15@nd.edu 



ND WOmEN’S GOlF 

Irish head to elite Tar Heel Invitational 
11 top-25 teams, this year’s 
Observer Staff Report 
tournament bears a clear re-

The irish will face high semblance to the 2011 Tar stakes when they take on heel invitational, in which a tough field at the ruth’s notre dame also competed. chris Tar heel invitational in that tournament, the irish in chapel hill, n.c., this faced similarly strong oppo­weekend. nents and finished last in an 
with a field that includes 18-team field that included paid adverTisemenT 

five teams ranked in the top 10. 
competitors at this week­end’s tournament include no. 2 alabama, no. 3 duke, no. 4 oklahoma, no. 6 arkansas, no. 8 vanderbilt, no. 10 Florida, no. 14 virginia and no. 15 north carolina, among others. 
This year, notre dame has finished no worse than 12th, despite competing against some of the top teams in the nation. most recently, the irish finished seventh in a 17-team field that included no. 6 arkansas and no. 19 Tulane at the mercedes-benz collegiate championship in Knoxville, Tenn. 
in the seventh-place ef­fort, the irish looked to the young tandem of sophomore Talia campbell and freshman Jordan Ferreira. The pair tied for 14th overall with two-day scores of 144. 


Junior captain ashley armstrong finished 56th with a two-round score of 152. 
The irish will look to build on a solid fall campaign when they tee off at 9:09 
a.m. today at the unc Finley golf course in chapel hill, 
n.c. The tournament runs through sunday. 
mEN’S SWImmING 

nd hosts dennis stark relays 

By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
notre dame dives into the 2013-2014 season looking for fast times when it hosts its first two meets of the year today and saturday at rolfs 
paid adverTisemenT 
aquatic center. 
The irish (0-0) kick off the weekend with the 49th an­nual dennis stark relays today, when they will race against a field of michigan, auburn, cleveland state and valparaiso. They will return to pool saturday in a double dual meet to take on the defending ncaa champion wolverines (1-0) and the Tigers (0-0), who placed eighth at the ncaa championships last year. 
irish coach Tim welsh said his squad, which is prepar­ing for tough competition both days, will focus on its times instead of how it places. 
“i expect us to get off to a fast start,” he said. “This is a weekend where, both Friday afternoon and saturday af­ternoon, we’re going to look for the beauty of fast times …we want to see where we are. we’ve gotten off to a great start in practice, and i’d like to see that translate to fast times in meet events.” 
welsh said the back-to­back meets this weekend may help the irish prepare for their longer meets in the future. 
“our major competitions are two or three-day com­petitions, and that’s year-round,” he said. “it’s part of the sport, to compete one evening and come back and compete the following morning. we want to be pre­pared when we go to iowa [for december’s hawkeye invitational] and when we go to the acc championships [in February] … it is the way our sport lives and we want to prepare for that.” 
This weekend will be the first time incoming fresh­men have the chance to swim for the irish, and welsh said he and his staff would start to see how much of an im­pact they could potentially make this season. 
“our freshmen have done a great job in our early fall practices, and we think they’re swimming very well,” he said. “we want to see them race this week­end and get a better gauge of where everybody is. They swam well this summer, and preparation for the fresh­men coming in the first day was wonderful, so we’re looking forward seeing them do that in a notre dame cap here this weekend.” 
The irish will race in their first meet of the season at today’s dennis stark relays, which start at 5 p.m. at rolfs aquatic center. The team will then quickly rest up for dual-meet action against michigan and auburn on saturday at 11 a.m. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER  11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND vOllEYBAll 

Irish to visit Clemson, Georgia Tech on road trip 

By MERI KELLY 
sports writer 
notre dame travels south this weekend for acc matchups against clemson and georgia Tech in hopes of snapping a six-match losing streak. 
The irish (6-9, 0-4 acc) will first play the Tigers (8-8, 2-3) in clemson, s.c., on Friday night in the Jervey gymnasium. 
irish coach debbie brown said notre dame has worked hard all week preparing specif­ically to combat clemson and its type of playing style. 
“clemson is an outside domi­nant team, so that’s one of the reasons we worked on our blocking all week, and espe­cially our outside blocking,” brown said. “we feel like that is going to be really important for us, and we expect their outside hitters to get a lot of sets.” 
The irish will then travel to atlanta on saturday to face the yellow Jackets (7-10, 1-4) in the o’Keefe gymnasium. 
brown said the irish need to stay consistent on offense and defense in order to come out with victories. 
“during practice this week we worked on varieties of offen­sives and how we were using the different hitters,” brown said. “if we put both the offensive and blocking we worked on, we can do well this weekend.” 
The irish will cover over 800 miles each way for the confer­ence contests, but brown said the traveling will not have much effect on the team.  
“we’re relatively used to trav­el and the team knows that’s apart of being a division i ath­lete,” she said. 
brown said the irish are look­ing forward to experiencing the acc conference and all the dif­ferent places it can take them. 
“we’re going to new places, which is always exciting and different, and i fully believe we will be able to adapt to whatev­er the situation is,” brown said. 
brown said the irish need a strong team effort to win both matches this weekend. 
“i don’t think we are look­ing for any one person to carry the team, we are looking for the team to pull together and be cohesive,” brown said. “we are looking for the team to help 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 

each other out.”  saturday at 7 p.m.  
notre dame squares off with  
clemson on Friday at 7 p.m. be- Contact Meri Kelly at  
fore taking on georgia Tech on  mkelly29@nd.edu  





hockey 
conTinued From page 20 
postseason positioning, and said that his goal from here on out is to put his best team on the ice every night. 
“The years we’ve had the most success here is when we’ve had four lines that could all contribute,” Jackson said. “right now, i think we’re close, but we still have on our game this week and on getting pucks in.” 
The series will be compli­cated by the home-and-home aspect, which will send the irish to Kalamazoo, mich., for saturday’s game. 
still, rust said the travel shouldn’t pose a problem for the irish as they kick off their season. 
“Friday night is your ba­sic home game, then you get right on the bus after the 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
sophomore Julie vrabel will move on to the second day of qualifying at the iTa midwestern regional championships in ann arbor, mich., after taking her only match of the day in straight sets. 
Freshman Jane Fennelly got split results, while junior molly o’Koniewski went down against michigan state sophomore emily meyers, knocking both irish players out of the tourna­ment held at the varsity Tennis center at the university of michigan. 
vrabel defeated illinois fresh­man louise Kwong, 6-2, 6-0, after receiving a bye in the first round. 
“The girl i played i thought competed very well,” vrabel said. “she was a lefty, so that was a lit­tle bit tricky on her serve, and she had a really, really good back­hand, so that was something to deal with.” 
vrabel said she thought it was a good day for all three notre dame players in the tournament. 
“well i think my serve has game and get in around one in the morning,” rust said. “That takes away some of your sleep, but early in the season it’s a lot easier.” 
The irish and broncos will square off at the compton Family ice arena at 8:05 p.m. tonight night and then travel to Kalamazoo on saturday for a 7:05 p.m. contest. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
a couple pieces to fill in and figure out. it’s going to be a tough decision this week­end, as we’re probably going to be sitting a player that’s played here in the past a fair amount.” 
The irish will need that skill on the ice in taking on western michigan, who will serve as anything but an easy win in their opener. The broncos return junior goal­tender Frank slubowski, who 
paid adverTisemenT 
started all 38 games for them last season on the way to sec­ond team all-ccha honors. with slubowski in net and a physical, hard-skating de­fense in front of him, finding a way through the broncos may be the hardest part of getting past them. 
“western michigan is al­ways a very disciplined team,” senior winger brian rust said. “They play hard, and they play physical. we’ve had to work 

ND WOmEN’S TENNIS | iTa midwesTern regionals 
Vrabel advances to second day 


improved a lot because i’ve been working on it since the surgery, and i thought i played well,” vrabel said. “i tried to stay ag­gressive and working on my con­fidence with that. and i thought all of our players did really well today overall, so i think it was a successful day.” 
Fennelly came from behind to beat eastern michigan ju­nior ankita bhatia, 5-7, 6-3, 6-2, Thursday morning before fall­ing to Toledo senior chrissy coffman, 7-5, 6-2, in the after­noon. o’Koniewski’s match also went into three sets, as she and meyers battled to a 7-5, 3-6, 6-4 decision that favored meyers. 
vrabel will resume play to­morrow when she faces eastern michigan senior nino mebuke. 
“she’s one of the top four seeds in the section of my draw,” vrabel said of mebuke. 
doubles play in the tourna­ment begins today, and if vrabel advances, she will be joined by senior teammates Jennifer Kellner and britney sanders and freshmen mary closs and monica robinson on saturday. The final round of the tourna­ment will not conclude until monday. 
“it is hard starting early and playing in the qualifiers,” vrabel said. “and if i do make the main draw, it’s going to be tough be­cause it’s day-after-day and the days are really long and the matches are spread out, so it’ll be hard as we get through the tour­nament. but i think we should be able to handle it quite well.” 
although watching team­mates play can be draining both physically and mentally, vrabel said the indoor varsity Tennis center alleviates some of the draining effects of day-long tournaments. 
“we play indoors, so i don’t think it’s that tough,” vrabel said. “There’s not really a heat factor or anything, so i think it’s less work to play indoors. my team­mates had three-setters, so i’m sure they had a really tiring day.” 
vrabel will return to action to­day, when she faces mebuke in the tournament’s singles quali­fying round. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


W Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
momentum, and despite their slow start, they went into halftime tied 1-1 with the cavaliers. by the mid­dle of the first half, the sky had opened up, making life extremely difficult for the goaltenders and creating a treacherous playing field. 
The rain didn’t let up let up in the second half, and neither did the cavaliers offense. Just as in the first half, virginia scored early when colaprico tried to feed brian in the middle, but her pass instead bounced off the head of notre dame’s contesting senior midfielder rebecca Twining and past little for an own goal in the 49th minute. 
The irish attempted to re­spond but struggled to main­tain consistent possession of the ball. notre dame finally broke through in the 72nd minute when junior mid­fielder Taylor schneider sent a cross to Tucker, who hip-checked it past sterns for her second game-tying goal of the night. 
For the rest of regulation, both teams were unable to score, with the irish coming close on a pair of free kicks by andrews. The cavaliers ended regulation with a 10- 7 shots advantage. 
after each team only man­aged one shot in the first overtime, the match moved into double overtime, which brought emotions to a high. but the irish lamentations were for naught, and now they must prepare to vis­it no. 12 virginia Tech on sunday. 
The hokies (10-1-2, 5-1-1) will be looking to leap past the irish in the polls with a victory. behind senior for­ward Jazmine reeves, the team’s leading scorer, and senior goalie dayle colpitts, who has six shutouts this season, the hokies haven’t lost since sept. 12, when they fell to then-no.1 north carolina. since then, they’ve won five games and tied one. 
notre dame’s losses to miami and virginia mean the matchup with the hokies will be the team’s first game this season following con­secutive defeats. 
The irish will look to re­cover from their sudden los­ing streak when hokies host them at Thompson Field in blacksburg, va., on sunday at noon. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
m Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 

have five international play­ers on their roster, including two freshman from germany and another rookie from israel. 
“i don’t know a lot about 
their  international  play­ 
ers,  especially  the  two  
german  freshmen,”  clark  

said. “i would imagine if they brought them over from europe, they must be good players. we know a bit about their players from watching game video, but we won’t re­ally know what they have un­til we play them.” 
nonetheless, the irish have a good general sense of the team they are going up against clark said. 
“[virginia Tech] plays very hard as a team,” clark said. “we know how they play and we know about their forma­tions. we never focus too much on the opposition any­way; we always focus more on what we have to do as a team.” 
according to clark, the as­piration is not just to be the best overall team in the na­tion, but for the irish to be the best in every phase of the game. 
“we try to be the best 
passing team in the coun­ but we work for it.”  
try,” clark said. “we try to  The team will look to do  
be the best transition team  just  that  tonight  against  
in the country. we try to be  virginia Tech. The match is  
the best finishing team in  slated for 7 p.m. at Thompson  
the country. we try to be the  Field in blacksburg, va.  
best in the country at stop­ 
ping our opponent’s attack.  Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at  
do we succeed? not always,  asantmil@nd.edu  

paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ hOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

hIGhlY PuNlIKElY | chrisTopher brucKer SuDOKu | The mepham group 

CONTROllED ChAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: dale earnhardt Jr., 39; mario lopez, 40; wendi mclendon-covey, 44; bradley whitford, 54. 
Happy Birthday: hone your skills and focus on what’s important to you. refuse to let poor past relationships interfere with your personal or professional future. change can bring you a better lifestyle along with a more rewarding career. an unexpected change will allow you to turn a negative situation into a positive new beginning. protect your health and your reputation. your numbers are 3, 12, 16, 21, 27, 30, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you may feel restless and in need of a change, but stability will end up being more important. put some effort into a project that can bring in more cash, and you will gain confidence that could lead to bigger and better prospects. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): honest talks will improve your relationships. a trip will take you back in time. reconnect with people you miss and learn more about your roots. a change in the way you live will encourage you to take better care of your health. 



GEMINI (May 21-June 20): a personal problem will develop if you are too chummy with your peers and colleagues. Keep your personal life a secret and avoid letting your emotions interfere with your productivity at work. someone will not be honest with you. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): your openness and contributions will be well-received and put you in a popular position. socializing will lead to an unusual relationship. share your concerns and your plans for the future, and someone will jump in and help you reach your goal. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): not everyone will agree with your choices or decisions. you have to follow your heart and do what works for you. a problem with someone who is negative or demanding must be dealt with if you are going to be able to advance. 



VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): get involved in something you enjoy doing or spend time with people you find motivating and helpful. The changes going on in your personal life should be left to unfold naturally. in the end you will be the one who benefits. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): size up your situation and keep your spending to a mini­mum. Focus on what’s most important to you and nurture emotional relationships. self–improvement projects will help ease your stress and boost your morale. romance is highlighted. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): look, see and do. Follow through, and you will not upset anyone you are in a meaningful relationship with. it’s important to show your strength, courage and ability to finish what you start. make a positive change at home. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): home and self-improvements will put you in the spotlight. bask in the attention you receive, but be honest when discussing what you’ve done and what you still plan to do. don’t make a promise you cannot keep. 



CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): choose your battles carefully and avoid any sort of erratic behavior. stick to your story and present what you have to offer. practicality will play an important role in the outcome of a relationship you have with someone special. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): make the necessary changes that will help you get through any controversy or limitations you face. Take care of your health and protect what you’ve worked so hard to acquire. change is good, but it must be for the right reason. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): look at the big picture, and you will find it easier to determine what’s required of you financially, emotionally and physically. good fortune can be yours with the right moves and motives. expand your interests and outlooks. 



Birthday Baby: you are unpredictable, original and knowledgeable. you are passionate and outgoing. 
JumBlE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOmEN’S SOCCER | virginia 3, noTre dame 2 (2oT) 
Overtime heartbreaker 
Controversial call in second overtime seals Notre Dame’s second straight conference loss 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
under an unrelenting downpour in charlottesville, va., no.9 notre dame fell 3-2 in a controversial double-overtime nailbiter to no.1 virginia Thursday night. 
Just one minute into the second extra period, virginia junior midfielder morgan brian appeared to head in junior midfielder danielle colaprico’s corner kick for the virginia victory. officials ruled the play a goal, but irish coaches and players re­mained on the field protest­ing that the irish cleared it before it crossed the line. 
“Just because you run back and cheer as if you scored a goal doesn’t make it a goal,” irish coach randy waldrum said to The washington post. “it wasn’t a goal…[the offici­ating crew] doesn’t need to be doing acc games.” 
waldrum didn’t return phone calls left by The observer following the defeat. 
virginia (13-0-0, 7-0-0 acc) came in as the only un­defeated and untied team in the country. 
The cavaliers, who lead the country in scoring with 
3.3 goals per game, wasted no time getting on the board against the irish (9-3-1, 5-2-1). 
Just over three minutes into the game, colaprico lofted a perfect pass to set up senior forward gloria douglas for a diving header, her second goal of the season. 
virginia continued to press the notre dame defense and freshman goalie Kaela little, scarcely allowing the irish to get the ball past midfield. only after switching to a 4-5­1 scheme and moving sopho­more forward cari roccaro back to midfield were the irish able to break through virginia’s pressure. after a few failed probes into the virginia defense, senior mid­fielder mandy laddish lofted a pass over the cavaliers defense to freshman mid­fielder morgan andrews, who narrowly missed the net on a header past virginia’s diving freshman goalkeep­er morgan sterns. The ball gently ricocheted off the right post towards senior midfielder elizabeth Tucker, the season and tied the game seemed to gain back some who easily converted the at-for the irish. tempt for her second goal of with the goal, the irish see w soccer PAGE 18 


mEN’S SOCCER 
hOCKEY 

Irish travel to Virginia Tech 
squad revisits old 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
For the third time in less than a week, the no. 2 irish will challenge an­other acc opponent as they travel to Thompson Field in blacksburg, va., to take on virginia Tech. 
“i think the players feel very good and are excited for the game,” irish coach bobby clark said. “we do have a tough schedule, though, and we play again on Tuesday [against northwestern]. regardless, they’re ath­letes and this happens every year.” 
currently, the irish (6-0-4, 3-0-3 acc) are in the busi­est portion of their schedule. The team’s game tonight will be their fourth game in the month of october. 
“i don’t think there will be any mental fatigue. we work very hard on that,” clark said. “still, there is a lot of training to be done. it’s not always easy, but we work hard as a team, and we talk to the lads about keeping their heads above water. as virginia Tech (3-3-4, 1-1-4) soccer players, there won’t is a bit of an unknown for be a problem; they’ll be notre dame. The hokies ready to go.” 


according to clark, see m soccer PAGE 18 
ccha rivalry 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
notre dame will take the ice in a regular-season game for the first time as hockey east members tonight after a 21­year run in the ccha ended last season. 
Things may not look any dif­ferent this weekend though, as the irish will face their old ccha rivals, western michigan, in a home-and­home series. 
For irish coach Jeff Jackson, maintaining notre dame’s ccha ties will ensure the continuation of great tradi­tions — and great hockey. 
“we developed a bit of a ri­valry with western [michigan] over the past few years,” Jackson said. “we’re going to continue to work with teams that we’ve played with in the ccha. They’ve been good partners with us, and they’re good programs.” 
The irish will welcome the challenge in their home opener after they skated past canada’s university of guelph, 5-2, in their lone ex­hibition last week. The irish impressed in that game, and Jackson said he was excited by the progress his team has shown early on. 
“usually the things that show up the most this time of year are breakdowns de­fensively, and we didn’t have many,” he said. “maybe that’ll change playing western michigan on the weekend, but i thought for the most part… our guys have a pretty good understanding of the system.” 
notre dame will also strug­gle to figure out a lineup for its season opener, as fresh­men and new contributors push for ice time. while some positions battles are still flu­id, Jackson emphasized the importance of early non-con­ference games in determining 
see hocKey PAGE 17 





