The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 76 | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
In TV interview, Te’o defends innocence 
By ANDREW OWENS 
assistant managing editor 
in his first on-camera inter­view since the controversy sur­rounding the fake life of lennay Kekua broke eight days ago, for­mer irish linebacker manti Te’o maintained his innocence with his parents beside him Thursday on television host Katie couric’s syndicated talk show. 
“The hardest part of this ex­perience is seeing my family go through it because of something i did,” Te’o said. “The greatest joy in any child’s life is to make your parents proud. The greatest pain is to know they’re experiencing pain because of you.” 
in the hour-long program, Te’o defended his innocence in the hoax supposedly perpetrated by ronaiah Tuiasosopo, however he did admit to misleading peo­ple about his relationship with Kekua, most notably the fact they had never met. 
“i wasn’t as forthcoming about it, but i didn’t lie,” he said. “i was never asked ‘did you see her in person.’ That embarrassment [of not meeting her] … scared me.” 
despite having never seen 
see manTi PAGE 5 



spin for a cure 
By NICOLE MCALEE 
news writer 
starting at noon today and continuing for the next 24 hours, notre dame students will cycle for a worthy cause in the pink Zone spin-a-Thon. 

The spin-a-Thon, now in its second year at notre dame, is part of a larger, nationwide cancer-fighting initiative called the pink Zone. it is sponsored by recsports, the women’s Image courtesy of Kristen Gallagher 
Junior Mara Walsh, left, and Ryan Hall rector Breyan Tornifolio, see pinK Zone PAGE 7 right bike in support of cancer research at last year’s Spin-A-Thon. 


mlK Jr. dinner fosters conversation 
member armani sutton said 

By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer the group developed the topic 
in response to current issues the 
student leaders charged to university and its students face, “bring home” the teachings including the call to action pro­of martin luther King Jr. to gram meetings. notre dame met Thursday in “we tried to think about how the alumni stadium press box we can ‘bring it home,’” sutton to discuss contemporary is-said. “From that point, we tried sues during a dinner organized to come up with topics within by the martin luther King Jr. that theme, … topics we’re faced celebration committee. 
senior and committee see mlK PAGE 6 


Notre Dame leads March for Life in capital 

By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
more than half a million people are expected to con­verge on our nation’s capital today to rally in support of pro-life policies. at the very front of the march for life, notre dame students, faculty and alumni will lead under a large white banner. 
while notre dame has been represented at the march for years, senior and nd right to life communications director stephen wandor said this year is unique. 
“it’s really a great honor for us and speaks to all the great pro-life work that’s going on on campus, both through our club and through the center for ethics and culture Fund to protect human life, as well as the institute for church life,” wandor said. 
club president Jen gallic, a junior, said nd right to life received the honor of leading the march because the march’s director spent time at the university last summer. 
“The new director for the march, Jeanne monahan, actu­ally attended the vita institute run through the center for ethics and culture,” she said. “so i contacted her asking what we could do for the march and she asked us about leading the march. [The invitation is] kind of from her being familiar with notre dame.” 
approximately 600 students are registered to go on the march, and gallic estimates approximately 100 faculty and administration members will attend. 
“last year we had 350 [stu­dents], so obviously it’s a huge jump this year,” she said. “we’ve never had alumni meet up with us, so that’ll be a big difference.” 
wandor attributed the uptick in participation to a number of 
see march PAGE 5 


FTT screening PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 10 scene PAGE 12 hocKey PAGE 24 basKeTball PAGE 24 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
Who is your favorite One Direction member? 

Claire Troia 

Danny Burke 
freshman 
senior 
pasquerilla east hall 
off-campus 
“harry.” 
“niall.” 
Johnny Romano 

Leah Fisher 
junior 
junior 
dillon hall 
ryan hall 
“harry.” 
“Zayn.” 
Jeff Sabol 

Peter Harvey 
sophomore 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
stanford hall 
“i refuse to pick.” 
“none of them, i don’t like them.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

marisa iati chris allen Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: rebecca o’ neil isaac lorton Katie mccarty a.J. godeaux 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
brandon Keelean maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Tiempo Libre Concert Men and Women’s Rejoice! Mass The Think Justice of Four: 7 Catholic 
sarah o’connor laura rosas 

Leighton Family Swim Meet Colemna-Morse International Law Fellowship Cinema, DPAC. All Day Center Law School Cavanugh Hall 7 p.m. Rolfs Aquatic Center 8 p.m.- 9 p.m. 3 p.m. 8:30 p.m.- 9:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

Grammy nominated ND vs. Towson/ Mass in the African-12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. Student-led fellowship. 
The observer regards itself as Latin Band. Harvard. American tradition. Lecture a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Ice on the Mall Men’s Hockey Vespers Concert EAP: Listening and Panel Discussion 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Fielhouse Mall Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred note taking Business School 
however, recognize that we will make 
10 p.m. Arena Heart 303 Debartolo Hall 6:30 p.m.-8 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Ice carving and hot 7:05 p.m.- 9:05 p.m. 7:15 p.m.- 8:15 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-7:45 p.m. “Measuring and 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
chocolate. Game vs. Ferris State. Song and prayer. Target: Non-English Getting Results in 
we can correct our error. 
native speakers. Non-Profits”. 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | The observer 


MLK honored at SMC dinner 
By SARAH SWIDERSKI 
news writer 
while the nation formally celebrated martin luther King Jr. day on monday, saint mary’s will honor the civil rights lead­er tonight at the second annual mlK commemorative dinner. 
The dinner culminates the college’s week of celebrating dr. martin luther King Jr. 
senior and student diversity ambassador elizabeth elsbach said the dinner’s theme, “diversity beneath the skin,” encourages people to see through constructs that limit their interactions with others. 
“prejudice and intolerance go deeper than skin color and we wanted to highlight how we can help eliminate some of the and multicultural services and the sisters of nefertiti club. elsbach and sophomore dara marquez will also read poetry. 

elsbach won saint mary’s martin luther King Jr. peace prize competition last year for her poem titled “painting empty,” which is about dis­pelling prejudices and misconceptions. 
“[it’s] about first looking in­ward to dismantle personal prejudices before looking out­ward to tackle problems in the world,” elsbach said. 
The poem elsbach will read at this year’s dinner expresses how people are both different and similar, she said. 
“This year’s poem will be about a long past great-great­grandmother conversing 

“Take time to remember and reflect.” 
Elizabeth Elsbach senior 
prejudice in society by looking beyond the surface,” she said. “This year’s theme highlights how socioeconomic differ­ences and other factors can be just as devastating and aid in creating a society that denies people their full potential.” 
assistant director of multicultural services Tamara Taylor said college president carol ann mooney’s strategic plan inspired the theme. 
The theme enables the college community to “look at the students on campus who are not immediately [seen as di­verse] and what they bring to campus,” Taylor said. 
mooney and senior london lamar will be keynote speak­ers at the dinner, which is spon­sored by student involvement with her descendant and the recognition that they have nothing in common,” elsbach said. “despite that, they still recognize each other’s humanity. i think they are im­portant because they show­case an emotional, human element that is behind every great cause.” 

elsbach said celebrating martin luther King Jr. day is vital. 
“i think it is important for people to take time to remem­ber and reflect on how far we’ve come in our fight against prejudice and recognize how far we still have to go,” she said. 
Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 
image.” 
The film follows a day in the life of amie, a handicapped middle-aged woman who lives at a ymca in chicago and sells her photography to support herself. 
“it’s a character piece about her and the struggles in her life, and yet she finds so much hap­piness through art,” moffitt said. “it keeps her going, and it’s what she enjoys most even though her life isn’t the best.” 
Timmerman, who participat­ed in the festival last year with a short narrative piece called “soles,” said the weekend is an excellent opportunity for stu­dents in the FTT department. 
“it’s really exciting to be a part of it,” she said. “it represents FTT in a very positive light. it’s amaz­ing how many talented film­makers there are, and it’s really cool to see your peers’ work.” 
Tickets to the festival are $7 for regular admission, $6 for faculty and staff, $5 for seniors and $4 for students. Tickets are available on the dpac website or by calling the center’s ticket office. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
FTT screens student films 
Festival airs work produced in creative projects, classes 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 

For some undergraduate film students, this weekend’s 24th annual notre dame student Film Festival will be the first time their work is shown to the public. 
but others, like senior Film, Theater and Television (FTT) student Kathleen bracke, have displayed their work publicly before. bracke participated in last year’s Film Festival and said the experience was extremely rewarding. 
“The film program at notre dame is completely unique from bigger, more well-known film programs,” she said. “unlike at those schools, you can actually put your name on a film [here] and point out exactly what you did. and you get to watch it in a sweet movie theater like browning [cinema].” 
The Film Festival began yes­terday. it will continue today and tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 
p.m. in browning cinema inside the debartolo performing arts center (dpac). 
bracke’s film, “Journey of a pen,” follows a pen as it travels between diverse students and faculty in a high school. 
“Through the pen, we get to see all these different lives and how they interact,” bracke said. “we learn some things about each character, but it is always through the pen.” 
bracke, who collaborated on the film with 2012 gradu­ates Kelsie Kiley and brendan Fitzpatrick, said she was at­tracted to the script because its features the unique perspective of an inanimate object, rather than a person. 
The group produced “Journey of a pen” over the course of a semester for an advanced film production class. bracke said she finished editing the film just this week. 
“i think that’s one thing a lot of people not familiar with FTT don’t realize about the program, how time consuming it is,” she said. “There were five people in dpac last night pulling all-nighters, and it’s only the sec­ond week of school.” 
senior erin moffitt is par­ticipating in the student Film Festival for the first time this year. moffitt partnered with se­nior nicole Timmerman and junior elizabeth Kellogg to cre­ate the documentary “amie’s 





The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ipads are ‘heart’ of course, professor says 
By MARY KATE NELSON 
news writer 
students in web design 1 and The First amendment: Free expression in the digital age are utilizing ipads — their only re­quired course materials. 
students can use their own ipads or lease one through the university for $70. 
lenette votava, director of internal marketing and com­munications for the office 
“I see technology as suite of tools that can make a big class smaller.” 
Elliot Visconsi 
professor 
English 
of information Technologies (oiT), said the program is made possible through collaboration between oiT, the registrar’s office, the Financial aid office, the office of student accounts, the department of art, art history and design, the law school and the hammes notre dame bookstore. 
elliott visconsi, professor of The First amendment, said the $70 lease fee is the only cost as­sociated with his course. his students use their ipads to ac­cess apple education tools such as iTunes u, ibooks and ibooks author, all of which are avail­able to them for free. students also use their ipads to visit web­sites like Twitter and google+ to continue conversation outside of the classroom. 

“we wanted all course con­tent to be free,” visconsi said. 
visconsi said ipads and simi­lar technologies help facilitate, rather than detract from, class­room learning. he considers this especially important in his class of 115 students. 
“i see technology as a suite of tools that can make a big class smaller and can give students an opportunity to learn through argument, collaboration and other social practices,” visconsi said. 
visconsi and his students worked together to create a free digital textbook using ibooks author. The custom textbook has essays, videos, illustrations, infographics, cases and image galleries. 
although the class also in­volves lectures, visconsi said this digital textbook is “the heart of the course.” 

visconsi and his students face occasional challenges with their ipads and initially had trouble setting them up. 
“i’m still getting used to walk­ing around with my ipad in lec­ture and keep forgetting where i leave it,” he said. 
overall, visconsi said his stu­

dents  responded positively  to  
using ipads.  
“The  students  seem  to  

be enjoying the course, the 
paid adverTisemenT 
textbook and the access to ipads,” visconsi said. 
students in web design 1 have found their ipads beneficial out­side of the classroom. 
senior Jordan bai values the flexibility and convenience ipads offer. 
“i use [my ipad] for all of my notes and i can use it to show my portfolio in interviews,” she said. “it’s much lighter than car­rying your laptop around.” 
connor sea, a senior, said his ipad is valuable in his other courses. 
“i use [my ipad] for other courses and i use it to read aca­demic journals,” he said. 
sea said he also appreciates the ability to read large files on his ipad without printing them. 
“it’s a greener way to do things because i am not wasting pa­per,” he said. 
Contact Mary Kate Nelson at mnelson8@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | The observer 


Notre Dame, IU partner on graduate program 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
The eck institute for global health and the indiana university school of medicine (iusm) have paired up to offer iusm students the opportunity to earn a joint medical doctor/ master of science in global health (m.d./m.s.) degree be­ginning this fall. 
director of the eck institute david severson said officials from iu initially proposed the program to notre dame’s administrators. 
“we felt it was a great opportu­nity to increase our interactions with other indiana universities and to expand the scope of our 
m.s. [in global health] program at the same time,” severson said. 
Joseph bock, director of glob­al health training at the eck institute, said the program aims to give people the tools to in­crease global equity in access to healthcare. 
indiana university’s interest in global health took root years ago in a research-based pro­gram in eldoret, Kenya known as ampaTh, bock said. indiana university students travel over­seas every year to study under a professor who conducts re­search on health challenges in Kenya. 
“because of ampaTh, they are getting an increased num­ber of students applying who are interested in global health,” bock said. “indiana university is interested in making its global health portfolio robust. certainly they have already done that with ampaTh. This [dual degree program] is anoth­er way they are doing that.” 

acceptance into the dual de­gree program is separate from acceptance to iusm, bock said, and iusm students will compete with other applicants for spots. Those accepted will take a year of absence to enroll in the m.d./ 
m.s. program and receive their masters in global health from notre dame. 
The year-long program takes place over two semes­ters and a summer, according to a university press release. students will complete 30 credit hours, a research project and a six- to eight-week international field experience. 
bock said the current master of science in global health pro­gram sends students around the world to countries includ­ing india, Tanzania, malaysia, ecuador and haiti. students have partnered with organi­zations such as the national institute for medical research in Tanzania. 
“we are open to students coming in and suggesting places they want to go,” bock said. 
upon completing their inter­national field experience, the future dual degree students will return to any indiana university campus to complete their third and fourth years of medical training. 

bock said the dual degree program will allow students to take courses that pertain to their specialized interests but also require skill-oriented, core classes. one core class will en­sure students can use geograph­ic information system data in a mathematical model. 
“The students who take the epidemiology class, which will be required next year, will need to be able to do that,” bock said. 
severson said he would love for notre dame eventually to es­tablish a school of public health. 
“The eck institute for global health will continue to seek to recruit and establish expertise in the areas [bio-statistics, im­munology, and epidemiology] with an eye toward building a framework that a school could be established around,” he said. 
bock said notre dame wants to inspire students to help peo­ple who cannot pay for even in­expensive medicines. 
“it’s a crime against humanity that you have people out there with tuberculosis who can’t take the medicine for the six to nine months simply because they can’t afford it,” he said. 
severson said students want to impact the global community. 
“i think many students today … see an opportunity to incor­porate this interest in global health in their career goals,” he said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at 
chutyra@nd.edu 
March 
conTinued From page 1 
factors. 
“i think leading the march definitely assisted [with in­creasing participation], but most of the people signed up before we were aware we were leading the march,” he said. “we did a lot of advertising this year. we really made a big em­phasis on going to the march this year since it’s the 40th an­niversary of roe v. wade.” 
The march will begin at 11 
a.m. with a rally at the national mall, where various addresses will be given, and will conclude in front of the supreme court, wandor said. 
wandor said he believes the large-scale show of support makes a powerful statement to leaders. 
“protest is a very important way to show our leaders that we really care about this,” he said. “you can write a letter or edito­rial, but to make the trip, that speaks volumes to officials.” 
beyond the impact the group can have on the march as its leaders, wandor said the 13­hour bus trip and overnight stay at st. agnes parish in arlington, va. will increase participants’ awareness of the club’s other activities. 
“[it’s an opportunity] just to get the students involved and to get the students to see what we’re really about, not just going to the march but also on the buses there and being able to talk to them a little about some of the other events we do, perhaps to get them more involved on some of our other activities on campus,” wandor said. 

nd right to life works with hannah and Friends, a non­profit organization that aids people with special needs, and the women’s care center, which provides pregnancy services. The club also hosts weekly adorations and rosaries outside a local abortion clinic and performs outreach at a local home for the elderly. 
“we also have a Joys of life commission, and their mis­sion is really the idea that the best way to protect life is to cel­ebrate life,” gallic said. “That’s really a mission that our club has revolved around this year,”. 
additionally, the club hosts various lectures and seminars. not all focus on abortion and related issues. 
“one thing we want to emphasize is that it’s not just about us being against abortion,” wandor said. “The club’s purpose and its mission revolve around human dignity and upholding the sanctity of human life from the moment of conception up until natural death.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
Manti 
conTinued From page 1 

Kekua in person, Te’o said his emotions were genuine follow­ing her reported death sept. 12. 
“what i went through was real,” said Te’o, who said he did not know if the personal trag­edy aided him in his second-place heisman trophy finish. “The feelings, the pain, the sor­row. it was real. That’s some­thing i can’t fake.” 
Te’o provided voice mes­sages to couric that he claimed came from who he thought was 
“I think that the 
pain he endured 

when he was told 
she had died was 
very real.” 
Katie Couric 
Television host 

Kekua. Those messages were aired on the show Thursday. The new york daily news re­ported earlier in the day that Tuiasosopo’s lawyer told the newspaper that his client was the voice behind Kekua. 
Te’o rejected the notion that he and Tuiasosopo are close and concocted the hoax together. 
“previous to [Tuiasosopo’s confession of his involvement] i had only talked to ronaiah twice,” Te’o said. “he was to my understanding, lennay’s cous­in — her favorite cousin.” 
when asked by couric if he is gay, Te’o said he is “far from it,” and that he had developed a deep emotional bond with Kekua without ever meeting her. 
“she was polynesian sup­posedly,” Te’o said. “she was samoan. she knew a lot about 
— i’m mormon and she knew a lot about that. … They knew my standards and my culture. 
“i found a lot of peace and a lot of comfort being able to talk to somebody and she knew my standards and culture.” 
in advance of the interview’s airing, couric appeared on abc’s “nightline” wednesday evening and said she found Te’o to be convincing. 
“i do think that his affection for this young woman was very real,” couric said. “i think the relationship was very real. i think that the pain he endured when he was told she had died was very real. 
“he would keep the phone on at night and wake up with the phone at his ear in the morn­ing. it’s strange, believe me, but i think it happened.” 
in early december, when Te’o claims he first heard from whom he thought was Kekua, he said he continued to speak of her death in media inter­views because he was still try­ing to process the information himself and that it was not un­til he received a timestamped photo of a girl posing as Kekua on dec. 21 that he was con­vinced she was alive. 
“part of me was saying, if you say that she is alive, what would everybody think,” Te’o said of his reason not to make the matter public at the dec. 8 heisman trophy media availability. 
his mother, ottilia Te’o, said it “hurts” to see her son’s name dragged through the mud by people who doubt his inno­cence in the hoax. 
“That’s my child out there. That’s my child in my eyes who always puts others before him­self,” she said. “i am proud of his character. it just hurts to see his picture and his name being displayed as someone who is dishonest.” 
Te’o, who has been training for the nFl draft in bradenton, Fla., said the past few weeks have taken a toll on him. 
“it’s been hard. it’s been difficult,” he said. “not only for myself but to see your last name and just to see it flash everywhere and to know that i represent so many people and my family’s experiencing the same thing. That’s what was so hard for me.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Bad weather causes transportation trouble 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
news writer 
heavy winter weather has made transportation off cam­pus difficult for saint mary’s students. 
with snow and ice making biking nearly impossible, belles are seeking other options to get to notre dame for classes and meetings. 
sophomore rebecca walker does not have a car on campus to take her to notre dame for science Fiction and Fantasy club gatherings. 
“The trolley [Transpo bus] is really nice because it gets me to notre dame, but it’s really in­convenient ... because the trolley likes to be late,” she said. “and on the rare occasion that you need it to be late, it’s early.” 
some students with classes at notre dame said the listed bus schedules do not always match up with class hours. These prob­lems are exacerbated by the sea­sonal weather. 
MLK 
conTinued From page 1 
with every day on campus.” 
attendees sat at randomly as­signed tables for the meal and participated in discussions fa­cilitated by student moderators. 
campus ministry’s multicultural ministry officer Judy madden said Thursday’s dinner marked the event’s 10th anniversary. 
“There was a majority stu­dent, a caucasian student, 10 years ago, who was really both­ered when she talked to some of her friends who were minor­ity students who said that their experience at notre dame was not positive and she wanted to do something to create a more positive environment,” madden said. “she came up with the idea of this dinner and bringing people together to build rela­tionships, build bridges and get to know each other personally to hopefully improve the rela­tionships among all students at notre dame.” 
sophomore demetrius murphy said the best part of the evening was the diversity among the students in attendance. 
“we’re all coming from differ­ent aspects in our lives, we’re all coming from different majors and we’re all passionate about different things, so when you get us together and we discuss [issues.] … it’s amazing to have that open dialogue and it’s very necessary,” he said. “i’m so hap­py they do this every year and 
“if the weather’s bad, that means the [bus] will even more likely be late,” walker said. “monday night ... i was waiting at least 10 minutes out in the snow.” 
david gariepy, director of se­curity, said the wait might seem longer for students who are dressed inappropriately. 
“increased ridership on our buses also ... slow our buses down,” he said. “They do a pret­ty good job for the most part. during the winter, roads are ice-covered ... Traffic moves at a much slower pace during this time of year. i would encourage students to dress warmly.” 
“we have the blinkie escort van, which runs a regular route from the residence hall park­ing lots from dark until 2 a.m. mondays through Thursdays, and from dark until 4 a.m. Fridays through sundays,” gariepy said. “it extends its route to the grotto after The sweep [Transpo route] stops running.” 
while the security 

this is something they should continue.” 
murphy said his table dis­cussed whether social media networking impedes quality communication or makes it bet­ter, and if social media allows legitimate connections to form. 
“it was cool to see differ­ent people’s perspectives be­cause some people thought you could build a lasting relation­ship but that at some point you would have to meet in real life,” murphy said.  “others said ‘no, it’s not possible to build any 
“It’s important to know what your character is and how you’re exhibiting that character.” 
Armani Sutton 
senior 

type of meaningful relationship because people don’t present their true selves online.’” 
sophomore shanice cox said her group discussed the delin­eation between power and priv­ilege, the situations when they coincide and if the coexistence of power and privilege can be healthy. 
“it was nice to hear other peo­ple’s sides, especially those of some of the latin-american stu­dents who brought up politics in their home countries,” cox said. “i totally agree with [the conclu­sion] we came up with, which department offers these options for later hours, gariepy said he encourages students to use bus­es when they are operating. 
students frequently complain the buses do not run sundays. 
“on sundays, it’s difficult to get [to notre dame] when the weather is bad and blinky doesn’t start until 7:30 [p.m.],” steron said. 
Transportation is easier for students with cars on cam­pus, though this also has its disadvantages. 
“parking here is not that great,” Kramer said. “angela [athletic Facility] parking is really far away, and parking for students at regina [hall] is limited.” 
Kramer said she tries to avoid driving when the weather is bad and roads are icy. 
even when the weather was warmer, students found trans­portation to and from notre dame difficult. 
“class times are so close to­gether that traveling by foot or by bike takes so long that you 
was basically that either you’re in power with someone, or you’re in power against them.” 
cox said the evening’s theme helped her realize how much the diversity of minority stu­dents offers the university. 
“i’m in shades of ebony, and we talked about the social net­working problem that we’re having where people are not showing their true selves,” she said. “i feel like i can go back to those ladies and express the dif­ferent sides [of that issue] that we talked about here.” 
sophomore amanda peña said she was excited to learn the topics for Thursday’s event after attending last year’s dinner. 
“i especially loved my table [this year],” peña said. “we talk­ed about politics and people’s different opinions about politics and about how bipartisanship is really necessary.” 
she said the increased num­ber of people at the event excited her. 
“There were a lot of faces this year that i didn’t recognize and last year i knew a good majority of them, so this shows that a lot of people are starting to recog­nize more leaders on campus and that there are a lot more passionate people that are will­ing to step out,” peña said. 
peña realized there is a sense of solidarity among the students present who are willing to agi­tate for social justice. 
“it’s a beautiful feeling to know that there are other peo­ple on this campus who care about social justice and really may be late,” costello said. 
safety risks are also a concern. 
“i have a bike on campus, but i don’t really use it because i don’t feel safe using it,” walker said. “The only place i’d have to use it is to get to notre dame, but i don’t feel comfortable stopping at [north michigan street.] ... The pedestrian light is so quick. ... even if you’re there when it turns green you have to run, be­cause it’s red by the time you get to the other side.” 
gariepy said this has been brought to his attention before. 
“we’ve talked to the highway department about [the pedes­trian light], and they’ve checked the light and they feel that for the flow of traffic, it’s appropri­ate,” he said, “but i understand how that can be a frustration. ... if you follow the rules of the road, it should be safe.” 
walker said she would appre­ciate the ability to rent or bor­row cars from the college and more transportation options for sundays. 
gariepy said he encourages students to be patient, particu­larly during the winter months. 
“we can’t always please ev­eryone,” he said. “There can’t be instant gratification. Just under­stand that there are going to be delays when there is an excess amount of ridership.” 
he said regular stranded student policies are in ef­fect, although the response may be delayed by weather circumstances. 
“anytime a student is off cam­pus ... we will do everything we can to get them back safely,” he said. “anywhere within a 5-mile radius of campus isn’t too much of a burden ... but we only have two security cars on duty at a time. [if we have to,] we’ll send a taxi to pickup the student.” 
“Try to be a little understand­ing, especially during this weather. That’s where i think dressing warmly really helps.” 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 

big issues,” peña said. “There are a lot of issues that i am re­ally passionate about but don’t know where to go with them or who to talk to about them, but seeing these people and seeing what they represent … it gives me an outlet and a place to look forward to going and network­ing and collaborating on issues.” 
sutton said he lead a discus­sion at his table about the dif­ference between words and actions, analyzing what it means to practice what you preach. 
“my topic was private versus public representation of the self,” he said. “i wanted to high­light that issue and address how we can solve it and get back to dr. King’s dream of everyone getting together and everyone having good character. … it’s important to know what your character is and how you’re ex­hibiting that character.” 
sutton said his group con­cluded social media outlets are only bad if used the wrong way. They decided relationships require physical interaction, though social media can help begin communication. 
madden said the dinner of­fers a venue for students to talk about issues of substance. 
“This gives them an opportu­nity to dive a little deeper and a safe place to talk about things that make people uncomfort­able,” she said. “and i think be­ing uncomfortable — we don’t like it — but sometimes it’s a sign that growth is happening, and a great opportunity.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | The observer 




Pink Zone 
conTinued From page 1 
basketball team and the college of science. 
“The pink Zone is a nation­wide ncaa women’s basket­ball team fundraising initiative specifically for breast cancer research,” said Jennie phillips, assistant director of fitness and fitness facilities for recsports. 
The spin-a-Thon started when the pink Zone team reached out to phillips and recsports. 
“last year, [the pink Zone planning committee] said, ‘why don’t we have a spin-a-thon on campus so our students can be involved?’” said phillips. “The natural thought was that recsports should oversee it because we have a cycling studio science. 
“The pink Zone is a nation­wide ncaa women’s basket­ball team fundraising initiative specifically for breast cancer research,” said Jennie phillips, assistant director of fitness and fitness facilities for recsports. 
The spin-a-Thon started when the pink Zone team reached out to phillips and recsports. 
“last year, [the pink Zone planning committee] said, ‘why don’t we have a spin-a-thon on campus so our students can be involved?’” said phillips. “The natural thought was that recsports should oversee it because we have a cycling stu­dio and we know how to pro­gram, and so last year we started with our first one and it was very successful.” 

last year, the recsports spin-a-Thon raised $13,000, gallagher said. The pink Zone initiative as a whole raised $200,000. This year’s goal is to raise at least $15,000, according to the college of science website. 

phillips said teaming up with the college of science was a nat­ural choice. 
“They do a lot of research on different kinds of cancers and dean greg crawford [of the college of science] is very passionate about doing research and helping find a cure for breast cancer,” phillips said. “i think when you have the college of science involved, it adds credibility to the research we’re talking about … it’s what’s happening at notre dame, which i think is really great.” 
The college of science over­sees another spin-a-Thon at nearby Knollwood country club in granger. 
Kristen gallagher, fitness and instructional program co­ordinator at recsports, said although Knollwood’s spin-a-Thon inspired notre dame’s in some ways, the on-campus spin-a-Thon is unique. 
“it’s really nice to work together with [Knollwood] because they did it first and they gave us some ideas of what we could do for ours, but it’s just way different doing it for students,” gallagher said. 
gallagher said the event will feature food, giveaways and a raffle for a pink cruiser bike. 
“it’s a 24 hour event, and we break each hour up into a differ­ent theme,” she said. 
Themes include an ugly christmas sweater hour, mustache bash hour, and a go usa hour, during which the film “miracle will be shown. 
in addition to the hourly themes, several student clubs, including the steppers, the humor artists and the Juggling club, have volunteered their talents to entertain participants. 
phillips said the best part of participating in the spin-a-Thon is the real difference it makes in people’s lives. 
“i think that doing some­thing this simple can have such a huge impact, and i’m always impressed with the effort that the notre dame community makes when there’s a cause involved,” phillips said. 
gallagher agreed. 
“This is a special cause,” she said. “it’s very near and dear to people’s hearts.” 
To register for the pink Zone spin-a-Thon, visit recsports. nd.edu. 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 

Pentagon lifts ban on combat for female soldiers 
Associated Press  losing our sons out there. and  the show — but people don’t see  
although women have fallen  that,” she said. “maybe it will  
san diego — during her  out there, you really don’t see  put more females forward and  
time in iraq, alma Felix would  very much of it.”  give people a sense there are  
see her fellow female soldiers  now, with the pentagon end- women out there fighting for  
leave the army installations  ing its ban on women in combat,  our country.  
where she worked at a desk job  Felix and other female troops  “it’s not just you’re typical  
and head into combat with their  hope the military’s plan to open  poster boy, gi Joes doing it,” she  
male counterparts. but many  hundreds of thousands of com- said.  
returned home feeling that few  bat jobs to them will lead soci­ Thursday’s announcement  
knew of their contributions.  ety to recognize that they, too,  promises to change the image  
“i guess we do disappear into  can be courageous warriors.  of battlefields around the world,  
the background,” the 27-year­ “we are the support. Those  as debate rages on whether  
old former army specialist  are the positions we fill and  women can fight like men.  
said. “you always hear we’re  that’s a big deal — we often run  what’s clear is that the move  
will pave the way for women to  
paid adverTisemenT  earn higher pay and earn better  
promotions.  
The shift is the military’s big­ 
gest since the policy banning AP  
openly gay service members Capt. Sara Rodriguez  participates in a training exercise at Fort  
was lifted in 2011. and as was Campbell, Ky., in May 2012.  
the case with “don’t ask, don’t  men and women were skeptical  veterans and some in the  
tell,” troops were expected to  about putting females in infan­ military argue the public may  
fall in line with the new rules.  try units, however.  not be ready to handle seeing  
The change overturns a  “This gives us more people  more female troops come home  
1994 rule prohibiting women  to work with,” said army sgt.  in body bags or with lost limbs.  
from being assigned to smaller  Jeremy grayson, assigned to  “it’s harder to see a mother or  
ground combat units, and is  field infantry at Fort bliss,  a daughter dead. we (men) are  
expected to open up more than  Texas. “but they would have to  seen as protectors,” said army  
230,000 combat positions that  be able to do the physical stuff  staff sgt. anthony lemaitre.  
have been off limits to women.  that men do. ... They have to be  army spc. Jean sardonas,  
“we owe it to them to allow  able to pull their own weight.”  who works as a lab technician at  
them to pursue every avenue of  panetta said the qualifica­ a hospital, said she understood  
military service for which they  tions will not be lowered and ac­ lemaitre’s opinion.  
are fully prepared and quali­ knowledged that not all women  sardonas said she had  
fied,” said defense secretary  will meet them. he said allow- thought about joining an army  
leon panetta. he said women  ing women to serve in combat  team that conducts social work  
have shown they are willing  roles will strengthen the ability  in the field and faces combat  
to fight and die alongside their  of the u.s. to win wars.  situations. but she’s since be- 
male counterparts.  it will be up to the military  come a mother, changing her  
across the country, members  service chiefs to recommend  perspective, and said women  
of the military of both sexes  whether women should be ex­ tend to be more emotional.  
said they accepted the policy  cluded from more demanding  “if you see the enemy, well,  
so long as women will have to  and deadly positions, such as  that’s the enemy, but now if you  
meet the same standards as  navy seals or the army’s delta  see a kid with a gun you’re going  
their male colleagues. both  Force.  to think twice,” she said.  


The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Schools to modify access to sports 
Associated Press 
washingTon — breaking new ground, the u.s. education department is tell­ing schools they must include students with disabilities in sports programs or provide equal alternative options. The directive, reminiscent of the Title iX expansion of ath­letic opportunities for women, could bring sweeping changes to school budgets and locker rooms for years to come. 
schools would be required to make “reasonable modi­fications” for students with disabilities or create parallel athletic programs that have comparable standing as main­stream programs. 
“sports can provide invalu­able lessons in discipline, self­lessness, passion and courage, and this guidance will help schools ensure that students with disabilities have an equal opportunity to benefit from the life lessons they can learn on the playing field or on the court,” education secretary arne duncan said in a state­ment announcing the new guidance on Friday. 
Federal laws, including the 1973 rehabilitation act and the individuals with disabilities education act, require states to provide a free public educa­tion to all students and bans schools that receive federal funds from discriminating against students with disabili­ties. going further, the new directive from the education department’s civil rights di­vision explicitly tells schools and colleges that access to in­terscholastic, intramural and intercollegiate athletics is a right. 
“This is a landmark moment for students with disabili­ties. This will do for students with disabilities what Title iX did for women,” said Terri lakowski, who led a coali­tion pushing for the changes for a decade. “This is a huge victory.” 
education department offi­cials emphasized they did not intend to change sports’ tradi­tions dramatically or guaran­tee students with disabilities a spot on competitive teams. instead, they insisted schools cannot exclude students based on their disabilities if they can keep up with their classmates. 

“it’s not about changing the nature of the game or the athletic activity,” said seth galanter, the acting assistant secretary for civil rights at the education department. 
it’s not clear whether the new guidelines will spark a sudden uptick in sports par­ticipation. There was a big increase in female participa­tion in sports after Title iX guidance instructed schools to treat female athletics on par with male teams. That led many schools to cut some men’s teams, arguing that it was necessary to be able to pay for women’s teams. 
There is no deadline for schools to comply with the new disabilities directive. 
but activists cheered the changes. 
“This is historic,” said bev vaughn, the executive director of the american association of adapted sports programs, a nonprofit group that works with schools to set up sports programs for stu­dents with disabilities. “it’s going to open up a whole new door of opportunity to our nation’s school children with disabilities.” 
agovernment accountability office study in 2010 found that students with disabilities par­ticipated in athletics at consis­tently lower rates than those without. The study also sug­gested the benefits of exercise among children with disabili­ties may be even important be­cause they are at greater risk of being sedentary. 
“we know that participa­tion in extracurricular ac­tivities can lead to a host of really good, positive outcomes both inside and outside of the classroom,” said Kareem dale, a white house official who guides the administra­tion’s policies for disabled americans. 
dale, who is blind, wrestled as a high school student in chicago alongside students who had full vision. 

Support for Hagel increases 

Associated Press 

washingTon—democratic support for chuck hagel’s nom­ination for defense secretary grew on Thursday as the for­mer republican senator allayed concerns about his past state­ments on israel and iran. 
sens. Frank lautenberg of new Jersey, Joe manchin of west virginia, chris coons of delaware and Jeanne shaheen of new hampshire said they met with hagel this week and were reassured by his com­mitment to israel’s security. 
hagel would replace defense secretary leon panetta, who is stepping down. despite early misgiv­ings, about a dozen democrats have announced they would vote for his nomination, and none has declared opposition to president barack obama’s choice. 
six republicans have said they would vote against hagel, with some stating their opposition before obama an­nounced his pick on Jan. 7. 
“senator hagel clarified his position on iran sanctions and israel, and i am confident he is firmly committed to ensuring a strong u.s.-israel relation­ship,” lautenberg said, add­ing that he and his colleagues will be watching closely “to ensure that issues of concern do not emerge as he takes on this critical position.” 
separately, 13 former sec­retaries of defense and state as well as national security advisers sent a letter to mem­bers of the senate strongly endorsing hagel. among them was former defense secretary robert gates, who has worked for republican and democratic administra­tions, and george schultz and brent scowcroft, veterans of gop administrations. 
“For those of us honored to have served as members of a president’s national secu­rity team, sen. hagel clearly understands the essence and the burdens of leadership required of this high office,” the former officials wrote. 
hagel, who served two terms as nebraska senator, has faced opposition from gop-leaning outside groups over his past statements about the power of the “Jewish lob­by” of pro-israel groups and his doubts about the effec­tiveness of unilateral sanc­tions on iran. 
not one gop lawmaker has endorsed the nominee. sen. John barrasso, r-wyo., writing in an op-ed in The wall street Journal on Thursday, all but announced his opposition. 
“when we are faced with unpredictable national secu­rity crises, we can’t afford to have a secretary of defense who has unpredictable judg­ment,” barrasso wrote. 
other lawmakers have said they are waiting for hagel’s confirmation hearing next Thursday in the senate armed services committee. 
democrats hold a 55-45 edge in the senate and would have the votes to confirm hagel. 
“chuck is a combat vet­eran and foot soldier who has a unique understanding of the challenges faced by our men and women in uni­form, and a practical leader who understands the need for common sense in military spending and national secu­rity strategy,” manchin said in a statement. 
coons said he believes hagel “will be a strong and ef­fective secretary of defense, and i will be proud to vote for his confirmation.” 
sen. Kirsten gillibrand, d-n.y., who met with hagel on Thursday, said he had sat­isfied her concerns and she felt his responses were sin­cere. a member of the armed services committee, she said she would reserve judgment until after the hearing but de­scribed hagel as well-quali­fied for the job. 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | The observer 





Rhode Island legalizes gay marriage 
Associated Press 
providence, r.i. — 
The  rhode  island  house of  
representatives  on  Thursday  
overwhelmingly  passed  

legislation to allow gays and les­bians to marry in the only new england state where they can’t. The house voted 51-19 after 


an often emotional debate that touched on civil rights, religion and the nature of marriage. The bill now moves to the senate, where both supporters and opponents of gay marriage say it is difficult to predict the bill’s fate. 
“This has been a long journey,” said house speaker gordon Fox, who is gay and supported same-sex legislation when it was first introduced in 1997. “Today is a great day. Today ... we stand for equality, we stand for justice.” 
Thursday’s vote posed the most significant challenge yet for gay marriage in rhode island. while the five other new england states already allow gay couples to marry, attempts have fallen flat in this heavily catholic state. 
“i wanted to be here to see it,” said 70-year-old warwick resi­dent Ken Fish, who is gay. Fish showed up at the statehouse hours early to ensure he had a seat in the crowded viewing gallery. “go back 10 years, even five years, and i wasn’t sure we’d ever get here. we’re not done yet, but this is a big one.” 
nine states and the district of columbia now allow gay and lesbian couples to marry. 
gay marriage opponents vow to press their case in the senate, where senate president Teresa paiva weed, d-newport, remains opposed to the legislation. chris plante, director of the state chapter of the national institute for marriage, said he believes state leaders who support gay marriage aren’t reflecting public sentiment. 
“rhode islanders care about marriage, and they don’t want to see it redefined,” he said. 
some opponents have sug­gested placing gay marriage on the ballot as a referendum, but the idea is a nonstarter with Fox and independent gov. lincoln chafee, a gay marriage supporter. 
a handful of lawmakers rose during the debate to criti­cize gay marriage as a dan­gerous social experiment. rep. arthur corvese, d-north providence, warned lawmak­ers that same-sex marriage was an “irrevocable societal game-changer” that would redefine “the fundamental building block of our community” and could lead to the legalization of polygamy or plural marriages. 
“Truth must not be sacrificed on the altar of political cor­rectness,” he said. “is this the vision you want for rhode island’s future? is this the future you want for america?” 
supporters in rhode island are hoping to build on nation­al momentum after votes to approve gay marriage in maine, maryland and washington. meanwhile, in minnesota, vot­ers rejected a proposed state constitutional amendment that would have prohibited gay mar­riage, the first time such a bal­lot question has failed in the united states. 
lawmakers who argued in favor of allowing gays to marry warned their colleagues they could wind up on the wrong side of history if they cast a no vote. 
“your grandchildren someday will ask you... ‘how did you vote on marriage equality?’” said rep. John edwards, d-Tiverton. “hopefully you’ll be able to say the right thing.” 
passage in the house was ex­pected, as 42 of the 75 house members signed on as sponsors. 
Two years ago, Fox dropped gay marriage legislation after he concluded the bill would not pass the senate. instead, lawmakers passed civil unions for same-sex couples. but there has been little interest in the state. in the year since civil unions were first offered, only 68 couples obtained civil union licenses. 

ex-cia officer found guilty of leak 
Associated Press  whistleblower paying the price  his private pecuniary interests  discovered  possessing  photo- is  belied  by  the  fact  that  
for doing the right thing by ex- through, among other things,  graphs of one of their interro­ guantanamo  detainees  were  
mclean, va.  — when former  posing what they consider the  consulting  engagements,  pub- gators. it was that investigation  found in possession of multiple  
cia officer John Kiriakou is sen- worst aspects of the govern­ lication  of  editorials,  more  that ultimately led to the discov­ photographs of covert officers,  
tenced Friday in federal court  ment’s so-called enhanced in- remunerative  and  secure  em­ ery of Kiriakou’s leaks.  and leaks that were traced back  
for leaking the name of one of  terrogation program.  ployment, and sales of his forth- indeed,  u.s.  district Judge  to others were never prosecut­ 
the agency’s covert operatives to  To  federal  prosecutors,  coming book.”  leonie  brinkema rejected the  ed. she said leaks that carry the  
a reporter, his ultimate fate will  though,  Kiriakou’s  claims  of  The claim to be an anti-torture  claims of vindictive prosecution  government’s tacit blessing, like  
not be in doubt. The plea calls  altruism  and  martyrdom  are  whistleblower makes no sense,  early on in the case.  those that informed filmmakers’  
for a 2 1/2 -year prison term.  galling. in court papers filed on  the government says, given that  nevertheless,  Kiriakou  and  research for the film “Zero dark  
still, the fight over the 48-year- Jan. 18, they say Kiriakou was  he essentially defended the cia’s  his supporters insist he fits the  Thirty,” which documents the  
old  Kiriakou’s  reputation  re- motivated by fame and money  interrogation techniques in his  mold of an honorable whistle­ cia’s hunt for osama bin laden,  
mains fierce.  and “was engaged in a concert- initial interviews, which were  blower persecuted for exposing  were never pursued.  
Kiriakou and his supporters  ed campaign to raise his media  among the first given by a cia in- wrongdoing.  on  wednesday,  most aggravating, she said, is  
portray him as an anti-torture  profile, principally to advance  sider after news broke about the  Kiriakou’s portrait was unveiled  that of all the people who were  
government’s admission that it  at the popular washington res- implicated and exposed in the  
paid adverTisemenT  engaged in waterboarding.  taurant  busboys  and  poets,  scandal surrounding the gov- 
Kiriakou told one interviewer  where it will be part of a travel­ ernment’s use of torture in the  
that he came forward “because  ing exhibition and hang along- war on terror, Kiriakou is the  
he thought the cia ‘had gotten  side portraits of the dalai lama  only one going to jail, and he  
a bum rap on waterboarding,’”  and gandhi.  never tortured anyone. in fact,  
prosecutors wrote in their sen- more than 2,000 people have  he explicitly turned down of­ 
tencing memo.  signed an online petition ask­ fers from his cia superiors to be  
even more, while Kiriakou  ing president barack obama to  trained in so-called enhanced  
now portrays the leak of one co- commute Kiriakou’s sentence.  interrogation.  
vert officer’s name as an attempt  The petition calls Kiriakou “an  “if John had tortured anyone,  
to expose those who orchestrat­ american hero.” it credits him  i’m confident he never would  
ed the torture program, Kiriakou  with exposing cia torture and  have been prosecuted,” radack  
at the time described that of- says he is the only person going  said.  
ficer, identified in court papers  to jail in connection with the  Kiriakou, of arlington, was a  
only as covert officer a, as “a  cia’s  enhanced  interrogation  cia veteran who played a role  
very good guy” to journalists.  program.  in the agency’s capture of al­ 
defense lawyers maintained  Jesselyn  radack,  one  of  Qaida terrorist abu Zubaydah in  
Kiriakou was a victim of a vin­ Kiriakou’s  lawyers,  acknowl­ pakistan in 2002. abu Zubaydah  
dictive  prosecution,  alleg­ edged  that  Kiriakou’s  initial  revealed information that led to  
ing that the government only  statements to the public about  the arrest of “dirty bomb” plotter  
went after him because they  waterboarding and torture were  Jose padilla and exposed Khalid  
didn’t like what he was saying  ambivalent. but she said he be- sheikh mohamed as the master- 
about the cia in his book, “The  came more and more adamantly  mind of the sept. 11, 2001 terror  
reluctant  spy,” and in public  opposed to torture as years went  attacks.  
interviews.  on, and that the cia became  abu Zubaydah was subjected  
but  prosecutors  say  the  more and more irritated with  to both traditional interroga­ 
case  against  Kiriakou  devel­ him.  tions and waterboarding. Fbi  
oped when authorities discov­ she  said  the  government’s  agents who conducted the tra­ 
ered a potentially dangerous  explanation that it prosecuted  ditional interrogations say the  
security  breach:  prisoners  Kiriakou only because of what  waterboarding and other ag­ 
at  guantanamo  bay  were  was  found  at  guantanamo  gressive tactics were ineffective.  



The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

carnatic music 
Charitha Isanaka 
news writer 

Thehomo sapien is a highly gregarious creature.its constant need to express and share was the basic premise for the develop­ment of multifold languages as we know today. There are around 10,000 languages spo­ken globally and we have various platforms to express them. The air is rife with communica­tion.we talk, but is anybody listening? 
enterart.art, in my opinion, is born out of a need to share the real you.unfiltered. unfettered.it is a place where you do not need to don an avatar to adapt.it is a state of pure, unadulterated consciousness. From the graf­fiti artist to the virtuoso, they all share the same plane.my portal to that place is through carnatic music. 
carnatic music is anindianclassical art form and has ahindu origin. predominantly practiced insouthernindia,iwas exposed to this ancient art at the age of five.sruthi (the musical pitch),swara (the musical note), raga (the mode or tune) and Tala (the rhyth­mic cycle) are the basic elements on which this mesmerizing musical journey is built. carnatic music, unlike many other musical genres, is heavily dependent on the vocals and is almost a cappella in nature. 
istill remember my first class.iwas awe­struck by the timbres and tones of various human voices around me.as a child, it was an intimidating first experience, butisomehow could not resist going back to class.ibegan to look forward to it each day. This child­hood love continued well into my teens and ipracticed it even in high school.eventually, my voice developed andibegan to perform at Kacheris (concerts).mlvasanthakumari, a diva ofcarnatic music in her day, was my muse and through her compelling vocals,i understood the language of human emotion. 
carnatic music has always been an enigma to me, which propels me to delve further into it.it has a calming, almost tranquil, effect on my mood.it is a time machine, whereican traverse annals of time in an instant.it fosters strong bonds between people and makes me connect with others in ways never expe­rienced before.ihave become much more confident as an individual and also enjoy the happiness my music brings to people.music has a surreal way of explaining the most dif­ficult things for it appeals directly to the heart and not to the intellect. 
it is disconcerting to see this genre of mu­sic being sidelined under the guise of being “passé.”whileido enjoy more trendy and instrument-heavy genres of music that have cropped up, onlycarnatic music seems to be able to offer a platform to showcase the hu­man voice in its purest form. 
iam privileged to have in me a piece of tradition thatiwill be able to hand down to the next generation.sometimesiwonder how things would have shaped up, hadi walked away from that mildew teak door that harbored behind it, a million different voices, waiting to be heard. 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
New leaders here and everywhere 

EDITORIAL 

This is an important time for our country, our own newspaper and our campus as a whole. on monday, president barack obama and vice president Joe biden publicly swore their oaths of office to begin their sec­ond term at the country’s helm. on wednesday, The observer announced the election of a new editor-in­chief for the 2013-14 publication year. and today, peti­tions for student government executives are due, with elections to follow shortly. 
The introduction of a new leader to any organization or community marks an important event. a new leader can signal a shift in policy to bring real change to the daily lives of that leader’s constituents. a new leader can introduce new ideas and creative problem-solving, and a new leader can build upon the best work of his or her predecessor. accordingly, we must choose leaders with the work ethic, determination and moral fiber es­sential to positive leadership. 
notre dame’s campus has no shortage of individu­als with the aforementioned traits and then some. our campus is full of students who have a history of lead­ership — in test scores and gpas, on the playing field and at the front of student government. as belabored by our high school counselors, prestigious universities consider demonstrations of leadership just as they do our grades, and the admissions office at notre dame continues to garner the best of the best leaders from high schools around the country and the world. 
we still see that tendency to lead among our students here at the university. we all know a person who for­goes sleep and a social life to save the whales, sit on three student government groups, captain an interh­all team and run hall council. plenty of students make a life out of going above and beyond — and for many of us, we have fallen into believing leaders have to be hyper-scheduled and unbelievably driven. and when we just expect a few individuals to shine above all the rest, we run the risk of becoming complacent. 
with every social issue in the surrounding commu­nity, there is an opportunity to take initiative. with each on-campus problem that goes unnoticed or un­addressed, there are still more ways students can put their leadership skills to use without titles or name­plates. while the majority of us feel something be­tween love for and obsession with this university, we can hardly call it perfect. in real life, we should strive to be leaders in our clubs, activities, majors and resi­dence halls. we excelled to get to notre dame — and we should still excel here. 
most of us hope to one day be in leadership positions, whether it be in government, the corporate world, med­icine, service or even as the heads of families. so why take a four-year sabbatical on the leadership qualities that got us to this university and that we hope to rely on down the road? we have many opportunities to lead here on campus and the upcoming election in student government is perhaps the most immediate. student government does work on campus that is sometimes unseen and underappreciated, but its office can be a conduit for important projects by student leaders at notre dame. 
There’s no question extraordinary leadership can have a huge impact at every level of society. There’s no question that each notre dame student — from a fresh­man thinking about joining student government to a senior about to step into the real world — has the ca­pacity to be an extraordinary leader. There’s no ques­tion that notre dame offers chances to lead, whether that means reaching out to someone who is suffering or standing before the entire student body as a club leader. let this week be a reminder that we have count­less opportunities to be leaders on our campus and in our communities, right here and right now. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Knowledge is knowing a tomato is a fruit. wisdom is not putting it in a fruit salad.” 
Miles Kingston 
British journalist 




The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


It’s time to take a seat! 
Joel Kolb 
The provocateur 

a couple years ago i read one of the most disturbing newspaper articles of my life. it started out in­nocently enough, outlining a local middle school play, highlighting notable performances. here is the disturbing part — the article men­tioned that at the end of the pro­duction the middle-school students received a standing ovation! 
clearly, the state of affairs in america regarding the stand­ing ovation is at an all-time low. everyone and their kid brother re­ceive a ‘standing-o’ nowadays. To fix this problem, we as a society need to turn to the origins of the roman ovation. in short, a roman ovation was a celebration for a re­turning warrior. The celebration fell short only of hosting an actual pa­rade for the individual. The honor was given to those who had avoided war or won a war with minimal bloodshed. The point though is the roman ovation was an honor to those who earned it. 
contrast the roman ovation to the laughable use of the standing ovation in today’s society. in 2010, the current mexican president spoke to the senate and denounced legislation which burdened illegal immigrants from his home coun­try. Those who supported him gave him a standing ovation! it seems preposterous that a dignitary would receive a ‘standing-o’ for merely being in concurrence with certain members of the senate. Foreign dignitaries aren’t the only ones re­ceiving standing ovations. watch any state of the union address and you’ll find standing ovations, which some look as if they’re planned. 
The overuse of the standing ovation only devalues it. but fear not, our world is not completely forsaken. 
every year, pbs hosts a memorial day service honoring our fallen veterans and their families. often hollywood actors read letters writ­ten by the deceased to their loved ones, capturing the emotion and tension of losing a spouse or par­ent. The families and the rest of the audience watch, captivated by the words the fallen soldier wrote as their final words. upon introduc­tion of the soldier’s family, the audi­ence almost always gives a standing ovation. in this situation, the sol­ider greatly deserves the standing ovation. 
in the sports world, the great andre agassi, american tennis player, announced his retirement from the sport after winning a tournament. agassi, arguably the best tennis player at the time of his retirement, received a standing ovation. agassi and the veterans deserved the ovation, while the mexican president did not. 
who deserves a standing ovation? 
luckily for everyone, i have a mod­est proposal to fix the flagrant mis­use of the ‘standing-o’ in today’s society. First, everyone should look inward and examine their values in life. From these you can recognize the people who deserve automatic standing ovations. personally, the only ‘automatics’ on my list are war veterans and whoever ends up find­ing a cure for cancer. your automat­ics can be whomever you like, but be sure to make them meaningful and rare. 
of course, it is much more likely a situation arises where there are no automatic standing ovations, but you are still considering giv­ing one. if this is the situation, you need to ask yourself these essential questions: is this one of the best performances/sporting events/ feats i have ever seen and probably ever will see? will i remember this moment/production/viewing for the rest of my life, namely because of the epochal quality of this situ­ation? if you answer yes to either of these questions, then feel free to bust out of your chair. a final question is, however, “have i given a standing ovation within the past two years?” if yes, then the question becomes, “is this as amazing as or better than the last time i’ve given one?”
    Finally, armed with these questions, remember the tenets of recognition, prevention and assimi­lation.  recognition — if you see a couple of people starting to clap and stand, you should immediately begin asking yourself the essential questions and decide whether or not to act. prevention — do society a favor. do whatever it takes to pre­vent a bad standing ovation from occurring. Feel free to say things like, “sit down before i make you.” assimilation — if you feel a stand­ing ovation is worthy, then join right in. i’ve been a part of a couple of really good ones and let me tell you — it was phe-nom-e-nal. 
i’d like to end on this note. last semester, i listened to Father hesburgh speak at a veteran’s day service.  at the end of the speech, he received a standing ovation. The same standing ovation which was given to the middle school play two years before. should we as a soci­ety be comfortable putting Father hesburgh on the same plane as middle school kids? i know i’m not comfortable doing that and you shouldn’t be either.  The next time you are confronted with a stand­ing ovation, just recall what i said. if you’re on the fence about par­ticipating in one, just remember, “when in doubt, sit it out.” 
Joel Kolb lives in St. Edward’s Hall and is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. He can be reached at jkolb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Fr. Tom Tallarida  Gazing into the abyss  
“as i look to the day of christ, you give me cause to boast that  six million Jews were murdered by hitler’s nazi regime during wwii. stalin dis- 
i did not run the race in vain or work to no purpose.” phil 2:16  patched roughly 20 million persons. in only 100 days, at least 500,000 rwandans  
Fr. Tom Tallarida used this verse in his reflection on  the 60  were murdered by their own countrymen. on sept. 11, 2001, osama bin laden mas- 
year anniversary of his priesthood. he died Jan. 5. words can­ terminded an attack that killed nearly 3,000 americans and shattered the lives of so  
not express how much i loved this man. i met him when i was  many others.  
an undergrad at nd. my roommate and i attended daily mass at  we rightfully cringe at these statistics. if it’s difficult to really process such absurd  
Zahm where Tom was the rector. he was my friend in the truest  numbers, just start by imagining that everyone you love — no, everyone you have  
sense of the word. i knew he loved me, because he made this  ever met or known or even know of — being removed from your life.  
apparent through his demonstrative nature and his willing- half a million people will descend upon the national capital to protest a subtler  
ness to be there for me at a moment’s notice. he married my  genocide. since 1973, nearly 56 million children have been slaughtered by the very  
husband and me, baptized my children, and buried my father.  same parents who gave them life. no empathetic endeavors can make that fact make  
his life demonstrated that love is an action verb: it is what you  sense.  
do more than what you think or say. he acted on his commit- There is simply no justification for this, one of the most horrific genocides in his­ 
ment to be a priest of integrity and love. he always did what he  tory. but if i had to think of an explanation for why americans get up in arms, devote  
thought was right, despite possible negative consequences for  billions of dollars, hours of service and volunteer time, and dedicate their lives to  
himself. he considered rules and procedures secondary to min- preventing such atrocious episodes as those described above from continuing or  
istering effectively, and always chose the person over the rule.  happening again, while simultaneously citing a “right” that awards legal license to  
This sometimes caused conflicts with the powers that be. Fr.  murder others (or their own) children for convenience?s sake ... well, i can’t finish  
Tom is the best priest i have ever known. i was nourished by his  that sentence after all.  
positive regard for me over my entire lifetime.  hitler and stalin are universally acknowledged as embodiments of evil. we all re­ 
nd is full of caring professors, rectors and peers. my hope for  member the degree of rejoicing with which the news of bin laden’s death was met.  
all current nd students is you will meet those who will become  These men, all together, directly took less than half of the innocent lives that we our­ 
“your people.” Fr. Tom was one of my people and his profound  selves have taken in the past four decades in the war against the unborn.  
influence on my life is one of the best things i received from  These men had justifications for their choices, though: they weren’t slaughtering  
my notre dame education. academic achievement is impor­ the innocent so much as defending ideals, defending rights, defending themselves.  
tant, but showing up for one another and forging authentic  yet everyone agrees that these men and their philosophies epitomize evil. what does  
relationships is equally important. i remember a few courses i  that say about us and ours?  
took, a few great professors, and lots of the anxiety of studying  but abortion isn’t murder because unborn babies aren’t really, or fully, persons?  
and striving. what has remained with me are the friendships i  neither were the Jews. neither were the Tutsis. neither were the black slaves.  
forged, and those i grew to love. i love you, Fr. Tom. rip.  
Michael Bradley  
Annette Magjuka  junior  
class of 1978  off-campus  
Jan. 17  Jan. 24  


The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By LIZZY SCHROFF 
scene writer
 The night before the first day of classes, i got the chance to attend a concert by local band “The rutabega” at ignition music in goshen, ind. Josh hensley, singer and guitarist from the duo, gave me the low­down on the band and the mu­sic that they create. 
ls: “The rutabega” is a pretty unique name. what’s the story behind it?
   Jh: my dad used to call me The rutabega when i was a kid. not sure why! i think it evolved from “Josh the squash.” i didn’t realize i had misspelled it until after the first album had been released, but i suppose it’s made it easier for people to find us through search engines. 
ls: what was that sparking moment when you thought, “hey. i want to make music for a living?” 
Jh: i’ve known since i was around 15 that i had to make music. it wasn’t tied to money. i just felt like my heart would explode if i didn’t have a cre­ative outlet, and music felt so natural. 
ls: you describe your band’s style of music as “carp rock.” what exactly is “carp rock”?
  Jh: carp rock is our attempt at getting out of describing our style. it’s really just an inside joke. we thought it would be funny to claim we had invented a genre. 
ls: who are some of your musical influences? 
Jh: The beatles, simon & garfunkel, and early 70s neil diamond were some of my early faves that never got old. nirvana changed everything for me and led me to bands like pixies, The breeders, The vaselines, and The wipers. i love elliott smith, Tom waits and damien Jurado. i’ve also been fortunate to be close friends with some amazing songwriters that consistently inspire me and push me to be a better writer. 
ls: Josh, you started out as a solo act. how did you meet garth, and how has your music evolved as a duo?
 Jh: i started putting solo mu­sic out as The rutabega in 2002. it became a three piece for a while, and then it was just me again. my wife emily has been involved as well for several years.  garth recorded my old band, space and noise productions, in the year 2000. 

occasionally catch up at shows. he and emily had a mutual friend, matthew miller, who passed away in January of 2011. after matt’s funeral we started getting together for weekly dinners and would al­ways end up playing music. Those dinners led to garth playing his first show with The rutabega in march of 2011.
 ls: where do you draw your lyrical subjects and inspiration from?
   Jh: writing is kind of like self-hypnosis for me. my lyrics are very personal, but they don’t necessarily follow a story line. i often write about my brother, ben, who i lost several years ago. 
ls: i hear that you are in the midst of recording some new material. can you tell us a little about your project, or is it super-secret? when we can expect to see it come out?
    Jh: we are working on a new album that will most likely be called “brother The lights don’t work.” The plan is to re­lease it this spring. most of the songs we have been playing live will be included on this record, and we are really excited about how it is coming together. we tracked several songs in an old church in south bend and have also done some recording in the golden mallard’s echo room. it sounds big and open and sad and hopeful. oh, and my daughter’s all-girls choir bella voce sings on the first song! 
ls: you achieve a really full sound from a duo. what are some of the things you think about or try to do in creating a really well-rounded sound with two people? 
Jh: Thanks! garth and i re­ally enjoy the simplicity of playing as a duo. we are both drawn to minimalism, but we also really want our live sound to be as dynamic as possible ­from stark and exposed, with­out being precious, to lush and enveloping, without being overbearing. 
ls: your “bull carp” ep is pretty much the coolest pack­aged cd in my collection. how long did it take you to make all of those personalized eps? 
Jh: all the covers were hand stamped from a linocut i made. it definitely took a lot longer than i had planned — each package had to be stamped, folded, packed, and numbered. our friend brandon helped with the liner notes, which are die-cut in the shape of either open road and touring? 
Jh: recording is a blast, but there is something almost spiritual about a good show. we love getting out of town and have formed some great rela­tionships with other bands. it is also really cool to bring good bands into the south bend area and know that they will have an appreciative audience. 
ls: where can we expect to see you touring next?
 Jh: we are heading up to the upper peninsula (in michigan) in February for the prF Thundersnow winter bbQ. we will be playing grand rapids and marquette [university] leading up to the fest.  we are also planning to do some tour­ing after the record comes out this spring. hoping to get out to the east coast and hit a lot of midwest spots as well. 
ls: what’s been your cool­est experience as a group/solo project thus far?
 Jh: There have been some 
cool things like having songs used on mTv’s “The real world” and getting a positive review in “The big Takeover”, but honestly i am most ex­cited about the friendship i have with garth and the con­nection we feel to the mu­sic we’re playing. we both really believe in what we’re doing with “The rutabega”. ls: vinyl or digital, and why? 
Jh: both! i prefer to experi­ence albums i love on vinyl. The artwork is big. it feels good to physically hold a record and set the needle down. it even smells good. it’s like a little ritual. That being said, it is super nice to have my ipod on the bus and be able to listen to whatever i feel like listening to. i love that labels are releasing vinyl that comes with a digi­tal download. That is the way to go, in my opinion. make a cool, personalized package that people are excited about. 
ls: anything else you’d like us to know? 
Jh: we will be releasing “brother The lights don’t work” on vinyl and as a digital download (and possibly a small run of cds). we have been run­ning a “carpstarter” campaign (as opposed to a Kickstarter) to raise money to self-release the album. instead of ask­ing for fans to pledge money, we’ve been saving money from shows and doing silly things like selling plasma, cleaning up after raves, and collect­ing scrap metal. Fun! The first single from the new album will be coming out soon in the form of a video shot by my good friend Jared myers (daytime volume). Think model rockets, gasmasks, and a mysterious briefcase... 
check out The rutabega’s music on http://theseknotty­lines.bandcamp.com/. 
Contact Lizzy Schroff at eschro01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo courtesy of NICK YODER 


we knew each other from the a bull or a carp (of course). The South Bend born band “The Rutabega”  performed at Ignition Music Jan. 14, playing songs from their south bend scene and would ls: what’s life like out on the soon-to-be-released album “Brother the Lights Don’t Work”. 



The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MAC HENDRICKSON 
scene writer 
let’s talk about ross geller. 

and when we talk about ross, we are really talking about the most interest­ing and challenging character of the show “Friends.” it’s been almost 10 years since the 10-season run of one televi­sion’s most celebrated sitcoms came to an end. pop culture vanguards as long-lived and successful as “Friends” are gifts to anyone hoping to pull apart a culture. “Friends” partially defined a genera­tion. we learned how sexually-obsessed and irreverent our culture is. we learned that no matter your salary or upbring­ing, you can still enjoy a plentiful life, as long as your best friends are incredibly good looking. but first and foremost we learned that america doesn’t mind when a wuss gets the girl. 
That’s right. ross is a little baby. he’s not a go-getter. girls flirt with him. he 
By WILLIAM NEAL 
scene writer 

over the past decade, there have been several instances of experimen­tation with television series. in sit­coms, we saw plenty of shows stray away from the standard multi-cam, laugh track where every other sen­tence has to be a one-liner.  They have moved onto single-cam series like “arrested development”, “new girl” and “community”, the “mockumen­tary” style and shows that combine the two such as “modern Family”. The “mockumentary” format made nbc’s “The office” seem like  a one-of-a­kind (ricky gervais? never heard of him.), so when “parks and recreation” first debuted in 2009, many viewers saw it as a rip-off with a less interest­ing premise. its beginnings certainly weren’t perfect, but after sharpening out its dull edges through character development, new cast members and show runner greg daniels, “parks and rec.” quickly became “literally” one of the best shows on television. The problem was, and still is, that most complains about nearly everything. his extended relationship with the girl of his dreams wouldn’t have happened without the loose tongue of his friend chandler. The mix-up and ensuing drama was funny to watch, but did ross deserve to get off that easy? and this wasn’t a one-season issue. 
behind all the drama and laughter lies the show’s essential conflict: will ross and rachel end up together? it’s the opening hook of episode one, and the series finale details ross’s final stab at keeping rachel in his life. This is what the show is all about. 
and he wins. he gets the girl. ross the great wuss and the gorgeous rachel green together at last. if this doesn’t an­ger you, it should. ross is with the girl of your dreams. ross never proves himself, at least in the commentator’s eyes. sure, he is a nice guy. and attractive to boot. but are those the guys our culture con­dones? The passive dreamers who talk to 
viewers still haven’t given it a chance. 
if you’re not familiar with the se­ries, “parks and rec.” follows leslie Knope (amy poehler) and her rag-tag team of government staffer misfits in their small, beloved (fictional) town of pawnee, indiana. leslie and the rest of the show’s hysterical cast of characters work for pawnee’s parks department, and if you think that doesn’t sound like a glamorous job … you’re absolutely right. on a daily basis, their department puts up with being the underdog of government branches and deals with the insane locals, all in efforts to create places for children to play. 
if you ask me why you should watch this show, however, i wouldn’t give you this premise. instead, i’d tell you to watch it for the best and funniest ensemble cast on television. 
let’s begin with leslie Knope. unlike the dimwitted michael scott (insert “that’s what she said” joke), leslie is an idealistic and commit­ted character who often seems to be the one glimmer of hope in her crazy little town. she’s the waffle-addicted, their friends about their loves and losses and wait for the next big thing? ross geller wasn’t the first loser to win and surely won’t be the last. (Ted mosby, any­one? The similarity shouldn’t surprise anyone considering that how i met your mother is Friends part 2 starring doogie howser.) but why doesn’t it bother us that ross gets the girl? does ross deserve to win? would ross have won in the real world? This is the ross problem. 
This conflict could be easily written off. “Friends” is a chick show, and ross geller represents what many girls look for in a man. a dreamer and a sweetheart. someone innocent, and more feminine than usual. and the male viewership didn’t mind. To them, it was reassuring: if ross can take his sweet 10 years getting rachel, i’ve still got time. 
but consider an alternative proposal. we didn’t mind ross getting the girl because we have become lazy. “ross and rachel” convinces us of destiny, 
whirlwind-of-crazy figure of female empowerment whose first date topics include “whales,” “parades” and “elec­tricity..  and we can’t help but love her. ron swanson (nick offerman), direc­tor of the parks department, is the true definition of a man. he’s the stoic government employee who ironically doesn’t believe in government, has two ex-wives named Tammy, a pas­sion for meat-based products, hordes of underground gold, an alternate Jazz-playing persona, and one amaz­ing mustache. Tom haverford (aziz ansari) is a wannabe p-diddy, a true entrepreneur (“make a baby tuxedo clothing line!”) and a hustlin’ ladies man. andy dwyer (chris pratt) has the heart of a child, and the intelli­gence of one too. as a shoe shiner by day and Fbi agent bert macklin by night, andy can make anyone smile. april ludgate (aubrey plaza) is the scowling dry-humored puerto rican assistant to ron swanson who may just be one of the funniest and most unique female characters currently on television (“horizons are dumb. never broaden your horizons.”) The that everything will work out no matter what. if two people are perfect for each other, they will eventually find love. ross just needed to be himself and stick around for a decade. sound like modern america yet? so really, the ross prob­lem is america’s problem. we idolize the dreamers, not the go-getters. we believe in destiny, not sweat. 
another episode in season eight of­fers a rebuttal to its own dilemma. when chandler fears that his wife monica has met her true soul mate, chandler’s an­tics lead to a frank discussion between husband and wife. surprisingly, neither believes in soul mates. “i don’t think that you and i were destined to end up togeth­er. i think that we fell in love and we work hard at our relationship.” it’s the bits of realism in this show that help one digest the horse apples. 
Contact Mac Hendrickson at mhendri@nd.edu 
list continues with funny and loveable characters such as ben wyatt (adam scott), chris Traeger (rob lowe) and ann perkins (rashida Jones). i don’t have the space to do these characters justice, but believe me, you will not find a better ensemble of characters still on television. 
aside from the hilarious story lines involving penguin weddings, minia­ture horses, political campaigns and three-legged dogs, this is a show with a lot of heart. “parks and rec.” at its core is a story about a group of people who may have their differences but are always there to support each other. To sum it up, it’s a show about friend­ships. if you haven’t taken the time to see this outstanding sitcom, please tune in Thursday nights on nbc be­cause this is a show that, for countless reasons, deserves to stay on the air. better yet, “parks and recreation” is a show that deserves to be watched by all who love to laugh. always remem­ber, “pawnee indiana: first in friend­ship, fourth in obesity.” 
Contact William Neal at wneal@nd.edu 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

black mamba still deadly 

Cory Bernard 
sports writer 
The nba season has thus far provided fans with a multitude of interesting storylines. The Knicks have developed into a legitimate contender while the new-look nets have moved into their new digs and immediately established an intra-city, di­visional rivalry. meanwhile, the Thunder and heat have picked up where they left off last year, with superstars Kevin durant and lebron James outclassing the league with superior talent. 
and of course, who could forget the saga in los angeles? 
Juxtaposed against the flashy success of the clippers’ “lob city,” the lakers and their all-star cast have failed mightily. executive vice president Jim buss and gen­eral manager mitch Kupchak produced the biggest off­season headlines. First, they signed veteran all-world point guard steve nash and two-time all-star forward antawn Jamison before luring the association’s best center 
— dwight howard — to los angeles. with guard Kobe bryant and forward pau gasol already in the fold, the lakers suddenly looked like the team to beat. everyone knows how that has worked out so far. 
despite all of this early-sea­son drama, the most intrigu­ing story at the mid-point of the nba season is the tragedy of one player in particular: Kobe bryant. 
buried beneath the rubble of the lakers’ sub-.500 season is the fact that the 34-year-old bryant is having a monster season. his scoring over the past few seasons has hovered just above his career aver­age of 25.5 points per game, but his field-goal and 3-point shooting percentage has dropped ever season since 2008-2009. except this year. despite a coaching change just five games into the sea­son and an ever-changing ro­tation of players around him, bryant is second in the league in scoring, averaging just under 30 points per game. he is shooting a hair less than 47 percent from the floor, his highest mark since the 2008­2009 season. he is making more than 35 percent of his shots from behind the 3-point arc, his highest total since the 2007-2008 season. 
still, his team stinks and he can’t seem to do much about it. The most prolific scorer since michael Jordan is producing at an all-time high despite playing on a surgi­cally reconstructed knee and mangled shooting hand that have seen more miles than anyone in the nba. yet he is being overshadowed by a host of younger stars on bet­ter teams. The best teams in the league rely upon superior athleticism on the perimeter, and quick guards dominate the nba. bryant’s lakers do not possess the right pieces to compete with these teams. 

at the tail-ends of their respective careers, iconic superstars larry bird, magic Johnson and michael Jordan competed in front of nba fans at high levels on cham­pionship-caliber teams. all won titles within a few years of retirement (please disre­gard Jordan’s two seasons with the wizards from 2001­2003, that was not the real mJ). These icons remained, in basketball terms, relevant. however, fans will not be af­forded the same luxury with Kobe bryant. This tragedy is the nba season’s most over­looked story. 
since he set foot in the league, bryant has been a once-in-a-generation figure on par with bird, magic and Jordan. he was a high school phenom who became the youngest person to play in an nba game in his rookie sea­son. he won the slam-dunk contest at 18 and never looked back, dazzling the nba with high-flying acrobatics, im­possible fade-away jumpers and a bevy of clutch shots in the regular season and play­offs. he will leave the league as a legend, but with the glory days of his championship teams as a distant memory. 
his retirement is several years down the road, and many things may happen be­tween then. dwight howard may decide to re-sign with the lakers despite the debacle of this season, and bryant may learn to treat him a little more like shaquille o’neal and a little less like every oth­er center he has ever played with. also, the lakers may ac­quire a perimeter player who can actually stay in front of today’s superstars.  but until these events become reality, i, and countless other bas­ketball fans, will continue to mourn the sudden and tragic disappearance of Kobe bryant from nba relevancy. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Michigan overcomes early deficit to top Purdue 
Associated Press 

ann arbor, mich. — Tim hardaway Jr. can’t help but notice michigan’s place in the latest national ranking. 
with a win this weekend, the wolverines could take over the no. 1 spot in the ap poll for the first time since the Fab Five era. 
“we would be lying to you if we didn’t have that in our mind, but we really are trying to do a great job of just trying to get better as a team each and every day,” hardaway said. 
on Thursday night, that meant being more aggressive on defense, especially dur­ing the second half of a 68-53 win over purdue. Trey burke had 15 points and eight as­sists and hardaway added 13 points. The second-ranked wolverines shut down the boilermakers after purdue had made seven 3-pointers in the first half. 
michigan has a chance to move to no. 1 in the next poll if it can win at illinois on sunday. duke, the current top-ranked team, lost wednesday. 
The wolverines (18-1, 5-1 big Ten) trailed by seven in the first half, but purdue (10­9, 3-3) couldn’t keep up its torrid outside shooting. The boilermakers turned the ball over 12 times. 
“we’re a very low-steal team,” michigan coach John beilein said. “it’s not a strength. we’re trying to, at different times, pick your spots.” 
michigan took control with a 14-2 run in the second half. The wolverines have won 28 of their last 29 home games 
— the only loss was to purdue last February. Terone Johnson scored 14 points for the boilermakers. 
michigan trailed 33­32 at halftime after the boilermakers shot 7 of 13 from 3-point range. purdue then missed all nine of its attempts 

FOR SALE 

7 month old MacBook Pro. Very little use. $3K of software for graphic design. Magnetic charger. 15”; screen. $1800. Call 574-370-0801 
Move in ready townhome near ND. $75K. 574-532-5961 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
Quality Assurance Rep Seeking part time employee to work with our business partners. 8 hours per week. Email resume to: mark@tristatemain­tenance.net 
Personal trainer to supervise work­outs at Rock exercise room once or twice/week. Must have experience; Polequin background preferred. Call 314-583-4191 

from long distance in the sec­ond half. 
glenn robinson iii — the son of the former purdue star with the same name — made a 3-pointer to put the wolverines ahead 42-40 and start michigan’s decisive run. 
“This was just another game for me,” robinson said. “it was my dream early on to go to purdue, but i know that i’m where i am supposed to be. i love michigan. This is home.” 
burke gave michigan some extra energy during one de­fensive sequence in which he nearly stole the ball at mid-court and then went diving on the floor to try to knock it free. mitch mcgary eventually stepped in front of a pass for michigan, bringing the crowd to life. 
“once the crowd gets into it and our bench gets into it, the energy just carries,” mcgary said. “That’s game changing.” 
another 3-pointer by robinson made it 49-40, and it was 51-42 after a steal and la­yup by burke. 
purdue trailed by 11 before going on a brief run to make it 53-48. michigan freshman nik stauskas answered with a 3-pointer from the left wing. 
The wolverines led 60-48 after mcgary dunked on a fast break. 
purdue gave michigan all it could handle in the first half. after burke breezed past the entire defense for a layup, boilermakers coach matt painter called a timeout just 75 seconds into the game. 
his team responded. d.J. byrd’s 3-pointer from sev­eral feet beyond the arc gave purdue a 14-9 lead, and al­though michigan rallied, byrd banked in another shot from long distance to put the boilermakers up 28-26. 
robinson’s one-handed dunk along the baseline late in the first half gave the crowd at crisler center some­thing to cheer about, but the wolverines didn’t pull away until much later. 
“i wasn’t crazy about some of our poise in the first half. we tried to hit some home runs instead of some singles,” beilein said. “second half, we really played smart.” 
robinson and stauskas scored 12 points apiece. byrd finished with 11. 
“They made it a lot tougher for us in the second half,” byrd said. “we couldn’t get the open looks we were getting in the first half, and we didn’t knock down the ones we got. it is frustrating.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 




ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | The observer 
NBA 

Knicks hand Celtics a crushing loss 
Associated Press 
bosTon — carmelo anthony scored 28 points and won his rematch with Kevin garnett as the new york Knicks ended an 11­game losing streak in boston with an 89-86 victory over the celtics on Thursday night. 
it came 17 days after a verbal clash between the all-star forwards following boston’s 102-96 victory in new york led to anthony’s one-game suspension. 
anthony was booed fre­quently Thursday but there was no sign of hostility with garnett. at one point, anthony even extended his hand to a fallen garnett and helped the celtic to his feet. 
rajon rondo led the celtics with 23 points, 10 rebounds and 11 assists, his fourth triple-double of the season. paul pierce added 22 points. garnett had only eight points but finished with a game-high 12 rebounds as boston lost its fifth straight game. 
There were 17 lead chang­es in the game but none in the fourth quarter. 
in the first half, anthony was booed nearly every time he touched the ball and cheered when he was called for fouls as fans reacted to the last meeting between the star forwards. one of the biggest cheers came when garnett blocked anthony’s layup attempt with 3:15 left in the second quarter. 

garnett and anthony had jawed with each other dur­ing the teams’ previous matchup. after that game, anthony walked toward the celtics locker room before security personnel stepped in and sent him back toward the Knicks’ room. 
comcast sportsnet new england posted a video on its website showing anthony waiting near boston’s team bus after the game, with coach mike woodson and new york city police nearby. 
The nba suspended anthony for the next game, an 81-76 loss at indiana. 
on Thursday, the celtics took their last lead, 66­65, on a 3-pointer by Jeff green with 2:22 left in the third quarter. Then Tyson chandler put the Knicks ahead with a three-point play and they scored the last seven points of the period, taking a 72-66 lead. 
They increased that to 84­76 before the celtics cut it to two on a basket by garnett and two by rondo. amare stoudemire’s tip made it 
paid adverTisemenT 


86-82 with 3:24 left before rondo sank two free throws and J.r. smith hit a 3-point­er. rondo cut the lead to 89-86 with a field goal with 40 seconds to go and Jason Kidd missed a 3-pointer for the Knicks with 14 seconds remaining. 
but boston’s last chance ended when pierce lost the ball out of bounds as he was receiving a pass with 7.1 sec­onds left. 
anthony scored at least 20 points for the 27th straight game, third most in fran­chise history behind richie guerin’s 29 and patrick ewing’s 28. 
The Knicks led 50-48 at halftime but trailed 60-59 with just under five minutes remaining in the third quar­ter. Then they outscored the celtics 13-6, with anthony scoring six points. 


RECSPORTS 
Alumni beats Dillon in rivalry 
while the dawgs had a 
Special to The Observer 
lot of success on offense 
after falling short in and found the back of the last season’s men’s interh-net five times, the team all hockey championship, will need to improve for alumni has unfinished next week. They had three business. its run to re-power play opportunities demption began with a 5-1 during the game but did victory over rival dillon in not capitalize on any of the first recsports game of them. the week in 2013. dillon came into the 
while the game was not game with high hopes but as contentious as both now will need to readjust teams had hoped, it made after a poor loss. The big for an exciting matchup. red goalies struggled un­
alumni jumped out to an der a constant barrage the early lead and never looked entire game. The locker back. sophomore Joe aiken room after the game was said the dawgs tried to get melancholy and the big off to a good start. red players declined to 
“we tried to go out there comment on the game. and just have fun and put dillon’s one goal in the last a few goals in early,” aiken minute of the game was a said. highlight for the big red. 
alumni freshman will as the match up was not Kelly attributed alumni’s a divisional game, the loss success to the play of his did not have playoff impli­teammates. cations for dillon. 
“we really moved the Join recsports next puck well, and we played monday for the next game off our crowd’s intensity,” of the week: interhall Kelly said. women’s basketball. 


The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 

notre dame competes in final home meet 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
This weekend the irish celebrate senior week, honoring the top members of the squad at their final home meet. harvard and Towson will visit rolfs aquatic center for the shamrock invitational, taking place the span of the day on both Friday and saturday. 
no. 20 notre dame comes off a 131-112 win at cleveland state on Jan. 18, which marked its sixth win in dual meet competition. The undefeated squad demonstrated abilities deep in the roster, gath­ering points with wins across the board. 
senior bill bass, recently named big east athlete of the week, took first in two individual races and one relay event against cleveland state to lead the team. his 50.58 performance earned him first in the 100-yard butterfly while his 
1:50.59 led him to the top in the 200-yard individual medley. his 
22.13 butterfly in the 100-yard medley relay team competition also helped secure first. 
This weekend provides another opportunity to improve before the season picks up. 
“practice this week has been pretty normal,” senior chris Johnson said. “we’re still focused on big east.” 
harvard has a record compa­rable to that of the irish, with a 4-0 dual meet record since november. They swim fairly consistently, with two 207-93 wins, one 192-108 and one 206-90 victory dating back to the fall. The crimson come off a re­cent 206-90 win against brown. in the meet, sophomore diver mike mosca led the day with two record-breaking performances.he scored 


412.42 on the three-meter board and 273.45 on the one-meter. Four other members of the squad also won a pair of events in the meet. 
“we do really want to beat harvard but we think we can do it without changing our training too much,” Johnson said. 
Towson is 3-6, coming off a 220-78 loss to delaware on Jan. 
19. The team is 0-5 in the colonial athletic association. The Tigers feature a young squad, compared to the irish team stacked with up­perclassmen. Freshman matt mcKenney’s 50.93 finish in the 100­yard butterfly secured first place for him against delaware, while his 1:52.59 brought first in the 200­yard butterfly. sophomore matt collingwood fell just short of first in the 1,000-yard freestyle, taking second in the race with a time of 9:33.97. 

“we are hoping there’s a big turn out to see the competition and cel­ebrate senior day,” Johnson said. 
The invitational will be­gin Friday in rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Irish take on undefeated Tigers 
By MATT UNGER 
sports writer 
The irish women hit the pool for the third weekend in a row as they close out their home schedule at the rolf’s aquatic center in the annual shamrock invitational beginning at 5 p.m. on Friday. They host Towson, an undefeated squad from the colonial athletic association (caa), in the two-day dual meet. 
The Tigers (10-0) enter the weekend following a dual meet victory against delaware last weekend. Junior swimmer Kaitlin burke will pose a challenge for the irish in freestyle events as she won the 100, 200, and 500­yard freestyle events in that meet, earning her caa swimmer of the week. The Tigers also defeated one big easT foe, georgetown, in a dual meet in october. 
meanwhile, the irish (3-4) dropped a close dual meet to indiana last weekend, 175-125. The irish claimed first in seven of the 16 events as sophomore emma reaney and senior diver Jenny chiang earned a combined five wins. chiang won both the 1 and 3-meter diving events, while reaney took first in the 100 and 200-yard breaststroke along with the 200-yard individual medley. 
however, the hoosiers swept the freestyle events and relay races, hindering the irish’s chances of victory. yet, reaney remained confident that the irish need to focus on the little things in order to be in prime condition for the big eassT championships next month. 
“[Following the indiana meet], we need to be more consistent in the water,” reaney said. “but we also need to focus on conserving energy out of the pool as we make our stretch run.” 
The irish coaching staff also looks to gather additional in­formation about its squad this weekend to help their swim­mers improve for the conference championships. The irish will don technical suits, from which data readings will be recorded. 
“The technical suits will give us and our coaches a feel for turns, times in the pool, and strokes,” reaney said. “also, it will give us more useful data, since our bod­ies will be tired after three week­end meets in a row.” 
Following the shamrock invitational, the irish receive a one-week reprieve before a fi­nal tune-up meet at Toledo on February 9. Then, the squad re­convenes in competition at the end of February for the big easT championships in indianapolis. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

UCLA upsets conference rival Arizona 
Associated Press  the pac-12 season, two of the  anderson — handled a big road  
conference’s  most  talented  test in a win over  colorado  
Tucson,  ariz.  — shabazz  teams that score in bunches  two weeks ago, but the mcKale  
muhammad scored 23 points,  and have some of the best fresh- center and all those rowdy fans  
Jordan  adams added 15 and  men anywhere.  wearing  white  T-shirts  and  
ucla rode a dominating start  arizona’s freshmen big men  screaming at them.  
to an 84-73 win over  no. 6  — Kaleb Tarczewski, brandon  no problem for these bruins,  
arizona on Thursday night.  ashley and grant Jerrett — have  young and old.  
The pac-12’s top scoring and  been solid in their first sea- confident and crisp on of- 
shooting team, ucla (16-4, 6-1)  son in the desert, though they  fense, ucla made eight of its  
tried to turn arizona’s white- have been able to fall back on  first 12 shots, racing out to a  
out into a blowout, racing to  arizona’s veterans when things  19-3 lead. arizona helped out by  
a 16-point lead in the game’s  have gotten tight.  clanging shot after shot, open- 
first seven minutes. even when  after opening with 14 straight  ing 1 for 13, with most of those  
arizona chipped away at the  wins, the wildcats’ luck in pull- around the rim.  
lead, bringing the all-in-white  ing out tight games ran out with  The wildcats were getting de­ 
crowd at the mcKale center to  a 70-66 road loss to oregon on  cent shots, though, and a few  
life, the bruins kept their com- Jan. 10. They responded with a  started to fall as they chipped  
posure to pick up a huge road  pair of impressive wins, beating  away at the lead. AP  
win.  oregon state and arizona state  arizona climbed its shoot-Arizona junior guard Jordin Mayes drives against UCLA senior guard  
david wear added 15 points  both by double digits.  ing percentage up to 31 percent Larry Drew II during the first half a game in Tucson, Ariz., Thursday.  
and eight rebounds for ucla.  ucla had some rough patch­ (11 for 25) by halftime, but had  
arizona (16-2, 4-12) got off to a  es early in the season, losing to  trouble stopping the  bruins,  shots, pushing the lead to 55-41  Tony  parker  scored  on  a  
miserable start at both ends and  cal poly and needing overtime  who went 19 for 34 from the floor  in the first seven minutes of the  three-point play,  muhammad  
never fully recovered, pulling  to beat  uc  irvine, along with  for a 40-30 lead. muhammad  second half.  dropped in a 3-pointer and  
no closer than four points after  Tyler lamb and Joshua smith  led the way with 11 points.  arizona  wasn’t  quite  done,  ucla pushed the lead up to 70­ 
digging a huge opening hole.  transferring from the program.  even without Travis  wear,  though.  60 with just over four minutes  
nick Johnson had 23 points,  The bruins rounded back into  who sat out the second half with  sparked by Johnson’s three- left.  
mark  lyons  added  16  and  form after losing to san diego  a head injury after scoring six  point play, the wildcats scored  arizona kept clanging from  
solomon hill 13 for the wildcats,  state on  dec. 1, winning 10  points in the first, ucla main- the next 10 points to get within  the perimeter and the bruins  
who went 5 for 24 from 3-point  straight games before losing to  tained its composure.  four and crank up the volume in  made the shots and free throws  
range.  no. 16 oregon on saturday.  scoring on the break, inside  the mcKale center.  when they needed to, pulling  
heading in, this was one of  ucla’s  freshmen  —  and on tough drives to the bas- The bruins made  sure  they  out their biggest road win of the  
the most anticipated games of  muhammad, adams and Kyle  ket, the bruins kept dropping in  didn’t get any closer.  season.  

paid adverTisemenT The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 





TRACK 

Notre Dame takes on tough competition 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
with the big east champion­ship less than a month away, the irish track and field squad travels to indiana this weekend for its biggest invitational of the year to date. 
with over 30 schools compet­ing, including alabama, Xavier and vanderbilt, the indiana relays in bloomington, ind., will provide the irish with high qual­ity competition from all over the country. 
after a few early season meets, the irish are now entering the midseason of indoor track, and will look to use the meet as a chance to grow in confidence and post-big east qualifying marks. Junior captain and jumper logan renwick expects the team will do both. 
FENCING 

“everyone is looking forward to a solid performance so we can go forward and peak at the big east [championship],” renwick said. “For the jumpers, we’re looking for anyone who hasn’t qualified for the championship yet to do so.” 
The irish boast impressive depth in the distance and mid­dle-distance events, entering five runners in the invitational 3000-meter, two men and three women. on the men’s side, se­nior Jeff macmillan will look to improve upon his second place finish in the same event last year, and freshman michael clevenger will join him in the event. For the women, junior meg ryan also re­turns after placing fourth in the same event last year, and will lead fellow juniors mcKinzie schulz and Kelly curran. in the invita­tional mile, the irish women have entered senior rebecca Tracy, junior alexa aragon and fresh­man sydni meunier. 
For the men, sophomore chris giesting will compete in the 800-meter after just being named the big east men’s Track athlete of the week for his performance at the notre dame invitational. 
overall, renwick believes the team needs to take the oppor­tunity to gain some valuable experience. 
“we have a relatively young group, so we need to develop some confidence,” renwick said. “it’s all about putting trust in our training.” 
The indiana relays take place this Friday and saturday in bloomington. The irish will next compete at the meyo invitational in the loftus center on Feb. 1. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
irish begin winter season 


By BRENDAN BELL 
sports writer 
notre dame will start winter competition this weekend as the irish travel to new york for a pair of matches at st. John’s and nyu. 
Junior sabre alex coccia said this weekend’s pair of matches is a great opportu­nity for the team to display its range of talents. 
“i think what is exciting about this weekend is we will have sent a good mix between some of the seniors and some of the younger fencers,” coccia said. “The new york tourna­ments are a good precursor to the bigger tournaments at the end of the year and i am excit­ed to see how people do.” 
some of the irish fencers are fresh off strong perfor­mances last weekend at the Junior north american cup in louisville, Ky. a number of freshmen competed at the club tournament, and fresh­man epee catherine lee won her event — an impres­sive feat because there were more than 200 competitors in the event. male epee fenc­ers John poremski and garrett mcgrath also competed, plac­ing 53rd and 65th respectively. Those placements put both irish fencers in the top 20 per­cent of the junior epee field. 
The irish will look to take channel individual perfor­mances from lee and oth­ers into the upcoming team matches. both the men and women have high expecta­tions for their teams. notre dame’s fencing peers also think highly of the irish, as the men were voted 3rd in the national polls, while the women fared even better and placed 2nd in the preseason rankings. 


despite this high honor pre­season, coccia said the team must stay focused for the task at hand. 
“The goal this year is to win the national champion­ship and i am confident in our ability and by the way we have been practicing.” coccia said. 
st. John’s and nyu are two of the top programs in fenc­ing and the weekend will be a tough challenge for the irish. st. John’s men’s fencers placed no. 5 in the preseason polls and the women no. 6. The team has been preparing and conditioning for the matches this upcoming winter and spring season and despite the short turnaround time from winter break coccia said the team will be ready to compete. 
“since we just got back we just had these two weeks of practice and the commitment before break with club work and footwork and specialized training will be really impor­tant heading into this week­end,” coccia said. “but the few days we have had has been very good and very focused.” 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | The observer 




MEN’S TENNIS 

irish travel to nebraska to face tough foes 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
This weekend the irish travel for the first time this season, leaving the comforts of the eck Tennis pavilion to hit the road for norman, okla. 
There notre dame (2-1) will face harvard and oklahoma or memphis in the iTa Kick-off Tournament. 
The irish opened the spring season with two sweeps, taking down marquette and western illinois 7-0. but they most re­cently come off a 4-3 loss to no. 41 northwestern on Tuesday where the two squads served back and forth for more than three hours. despite finishing on the losing end, the irish said the match still provided many opportunities to learn and move forward in preparation for this weekend’s events. 
“moving forward, we just need to each focus on getting better individually,” junior ryan bandy said. “we have the ability to be great this year but we will have to maintain focus every day in practice so we can en­sure that, when matches come, we are confident that we have prepared as much as possible in order to be successful.” 
notre dame hopes to carry that focus through this weekend. The first challenge is harvard, whose only play this season demonstrated abilities in both singles and doubles play. at the harvard winter invite the squad hosted boston college and marist. despite a young roster, the crimson won 20 of 22 singles matches and nine of 10 doubles matches. most outstanding were sophomore denis nguyen, who won the singles competi­tion, and the duo of sophomore alex steinroeder and freshman nicholas mahlangu who took the doubles win. 
oklahoma brings a threat in the form of junior guillermo alcorta, ranked no. 36 in sin­gles play. The squad also car­ries sophomore dane webb and costin paval. like notre dame, the sooners kicked off their season with a 7-0 sweep, but that dual meet against wichita state marks their only meet thus far in the spring season. 
Junior Joe salisbury and junior Johnny grimal guide memphis. The Tigers come off a 6-1 win against michigan state. 
The irish enter the weekend with experience from upper­classmen that will help guide the team. notre dame carries four ranked singles members of the squad. Junior greg andrews leads at no. 80, followed by no. 88 junior billy pecor, no. 110 senior blas moros and no. 120 sophomore wyatt mccoy. 
“i’m excited for this weekend since it gives us another chance to prove ourselves and play some very good tennis,” moros said. 
competition opens saturday at 2 p.m. with the dual meet against harvard, followed by oklahoma or memphis on sunday. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S  TENNIS 

Notre Dame plays for spot in championships 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
The irish will make their first trip to nebraska in the hopes of earn­ing a berth at the national indoor championship. 
no. 22 georgia Tech (1-0, 1-0 acc) and no. 23 Tennessee (0-0) will join the no. 18 irish (2-0, 0-0 big east) and no. 17 cornhuskers (2-0, 0-0 big Ten) in lincoln, neb., for the intercollegiate Tennis association Kick-off weekend. notre dame will play the yellow Jackets in the first round saturday, and the winner will face the vic­tor of the nebraska/Tennessee match in the final saturday after­noon. The winner of the final will move on to the iTa national indoor championship, which will be held in charlottesville, va., in early February. 


with all four teams ranked within six spots of each other, irish coach Jay louderback said there’s no favorite going into the weekend. 
“all four teams have a chance to win,” louderback said. 
although the irish won their home dual meet against the yellow Jackets by a score of 4-3 last February, bringing the series record to 5-2 in the Jackets favor, georgia 
paid adverTisemenT 

Tech has been next to unbeatable in these qualifying tournaments in recent years. The yellow Jackets have made seven straight trips to the national indoor champion­ship, which they won in both 2007 and 2008. Their squad also won the 2007 ncaa tennis title, the first ncaa title in georgia Tech history. 
although the irish are currently ranked above georgia Tech, the yellow Jackets have the no. 1 fresh­man class in the country accord­ing to Tennisrecruiting.net. still, the irish said they are ready for the challenge now that they’ve gotten their post-winter break jitters out of their systems with wins over bowling green and then no. 24 illinois. 
“even though the meet we are going to this weekend is pretty ear­ly on in the year, it is an extremely important one,” senior chrissie mcgaffigan said. “our past match­es with [georgia Tech] have always been extremely close.  a win for us would provide us great momen­tum and confidence.” 
Junior Jennifer Kellner heads into the competition as the big east women’s player of the week after winning all three of her matches against bowling green and illinois last weekend. 
“Jen had a great week, so it’s fitting she received the award,” louderback said. “she’s worked hard to play high in our singles lineup.” 
Kellner, though, is just focusing on the weekend’s competition. 
“i’d love to win my matches and contribute to the two wins that could take us to the national indoor nebraska Tennis center. They will tournament this year,” Kellner said. return to action the next after­“i think this weekend will be a good noon, playing either nebraska or opportunity for all of us.” Tennessee. 

The irish will be the first on the court this weekend, kicking off Contact Vicky Jacobsen at the competition at 11 a.m. in the vjacobse@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Basketball 
conTinued From page 24 
at where we’re at — we’ve lost three out of four — you need to get back into a good practice rhythm and i think we need to clean up some things offensively: screen­ing better, we certainly need to rebound better.” 
on monday the hoyas outrebounded notre dame 35-24. irish senior for­ward Jack cooley hauled in 10 rebounds and sopho­more guard/forward pat connaughton recorded four of his own. no other irish player had more than three rebounds. martin is second on the team this season with an average of six rebounds per game. 
brey said he has not de­cided on who will replace martin in the starting line­up against south Florida, who enters saturday on the heels of a 61-58 win over georgetown on saturday and a 55-47 loss to seton hall on wednesday. 
irish senior center garrick sherman started the season as one of the top two re­serves but has since found minutes hard to come by. sherman played five min­utes against st. John’s on Jan. 15 and has not played in the past two games. 
other candidates to re­place martin’s minutes in­clude senior forward Tom Knight and freshman for­wards austin burgett and Zach auguste. Knight has been the first big man off the bench as of late, while burgett and auguste saw action down the stretch against georgetown. brey said every option remains a possibility for saturday’s game as well as the rest of the season. 
“you’re evaluating who are you going to start in that spot on saturday,” brey said. “austin burgett, garrick sherman had a re­ally good practice yester­day. everybody’s back on the board. Zach auguste. you could play small which we’ve done at times with [connaughton] and [freshman forward] cam [biedscheid] in there with our guards and [cooley]. i think all of those things are things we have to evalu­ate and not just this week. That’s kind of who we’re going to be here moving forward.” 
brey said the irish need to improve their offense in order to stop the recent los­ing skid. notre dame has failed to hit the 70-point plateau in each of the past five games. 
“in our three [recent] losses we’re averaging [roughly] 57 points,” brey said. “we’ve got to score more. we talked about ball reversal in the last week. i think we need to emphasize screening for each other more. … we’re trying to find ways to get better looks offensively.” 

The bulls, meanwhile, have allowed an average of 
60.6 points per game, which is good enough for sixth in the big east and 56th nationally. 
Junior forward victor rudd leads south Florida in scoring and rebounding with 11.2 points per game and 7.4 rebounds a night. senior guard Jawanza poland and senior forward Toarlyn Fitzpatrick are each averaging nearly 11 points to go along with five rebounds per game. 
The irish take on south Florida on saturday at noon at the sun dome in Tampa, Fla. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 


Hockey 
conTinued From page 24 
and improve. 
“we can now see a lot of dif­ferent problems arising that maybe weren’t noticed … when we were still winning games,” summerhays said. “it really puts 
“When you’re in a slumb, you just want to focus on getting back to the basics.” 
Steven Summerhays 
junior 
an emphasis on the little mis­takes when you’re only scoring one or two goals a game.” 
The irish will need to correct those mistakes in order to stop a hot Ferris state team. 
The bulldogs (12-9-3, 10-7-1 ccha) have won five of their last six and are closing in on the irish in the ccha standings. The struggling irish offense will face a challenge in the unique defen­sive style the bulldogs play. 
“They have four or five guys trying to play goalie, blocking shots,” lind said, “we may have to win 1-0, as good defensively as they are.” 
working in notre dame’s favor is a full week of practice since its last game. The extra time has allowed the irish to fo­cus and recover from their long road trip. rather than adding any new wrinkles to their game plan, the irish have been work­ing on perfecting what they’ve been doing all season. 

“when you’re in a slump, you just want to focus on getting back to the basics,” 
summerhays said. “we don’t want to try and change what we’ve been doing throughout the year, because what we did had a lot of success.” 
The Ferris state series also marks the debut of new jerseys designed to support the char­ity defending The blue line. senior left wing nick larson is leading notre dame’s support of defending The blue line, and the jerseys notre dame wears this weekend will be auctioned off in support. 
“[defending The blue line] supports military families … by helping keep their kids in 
[hockey],” larson said. “basically they’re there for mon­etary support for families in need.” 
donations can also be made online, and a silent auction sup­porting the charity will 
occur during games this weekend. 
The irish look to finish up their four-game home stand on a positive note this Friday 
against Ferris state at 7:35 pm at compton Family ice arena. The teams will also square off saturday at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
Similarities 
conTinued From page 24 
the team has. 
“most of the guys here went through what we did last year, and last year, we somewhat had a panic, i guess,” senior forward nick larson said. “and this year, we’re all supporting each other right now, and keeping each other mentally focused.” 
sophomore forward peter schneider echoed his teammate’s sentiments. 
“it’s very different [this year],” he said. “we are very confident that we’re going to turn this thing around this weekend. it’s obvi­ously been a slump, but we’re very strong as a team.” 
it’s easy for the players to say the team is closer, of course, but it needs to be displayed on the ice. Junior goaltender steven summerhays noted the team learned from last year’s mistakes and has already had extra meet­ings, while attempting to strike a balance of not placing too much pressure on itself, in an attempt to get back on track. 
“last year, we tried to let it blow by at points and think we’ll just let it bounce back on our own, and then we tried lots of meetings, and it was just kind of like noth­ing we were doing was working,” summerhays said. “so i think this year, we’ve kind of just been in between that a little bit.” 
The irish can point to a few reasons for their struggles and to show why they won’t continue. 
The first four of the six games dur­ing the slump were on the road and played with minimal practice time for the irish to prepare, be­cause two of the games were mid­week. last week’s series against alaska also came on the heels of a Tuesday game at bowling green. and sometimes, streaks of bad play just occur in hockey. 
but the irish are now out of excuses.  They have dealt with injuries to key players, including junior forwards Jeff costello and mike voran, but every team in the country does throughout the season. They have had a full week of practice and rest for the first time since the layoff and will once again hit the ice at the compton Family ice arena on Friday and saturday. Ferris state (12-9-3, 10-7-1-0) is the defending national runner-up and is currently one of the hottest teams in the ccha, but the irish have more talent, are at home and should be fully ready to go. 
notre dame is more than ca­pable of righting the ship, but its play this weekend will probably show if it will, or if this season will sink like last year’s. 
so, no, it’s not time to go into panic mode yet. 
but if things don’t go well for the irish against the bulldogs, the hand should be ready to push the button saturday night.
     Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL

 Irish seek to stop surging Friars 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
while no. 2 notre dame was dominating the second half against pittsburgh on wednesday night, providence was having an exciting second half of its own. 
The Friars (6-12, 1-4 big east) battled back from a 19-point deficit to upset no. 25 villanova in over­time. so the irish (17-1, 6-0 big east) will face a team high on adrenaline and pride saturday, which could present a challenge. 
“They’re going to come in ready,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “villanova is a very hard team to play, plus they’re ranked. we’ll need to play our best defense.” 
The Friars can be tough to han­dle even when they do not have heightened inspiration. They fea­ture a dynamic tandem of guards in senior symone roberts and sophomore Tori rule. both are fast, and they dominate providence’s scoring statistics. Their speed es­pecially makes them dangerous game-changing threats. 
speedsters are not a new chal­lenge for notre dame, who has struggled at times to contain some of the big east’s faster guards. however, the irish have demon­strated their ability to adjust, even mid-game, as they did against pittsburgh (9-9, 0-5 big east) on wednesday. They tightened up their defense in the second-half to blow a close game wide open. mcgraw recognized that defense is key to her team’s success and dictates whether notre dame will play to its full potential on a given night. 

“our intensity on defense con­trols the outcome of the game,” mcgraw said. we stepped up the defense in the second half [against pitt] with great results…our team attitude is always about defense. That’s been kind of the trademark of our team. we take pride in our defense.” 
as good as the irish defense can be, they will have to work hard to maintain focus against one of the big east’s struggling teams. The fo­cus and intensity has to start from tip-off if notre dame hopes to con­tain the Friar guard duo. 
“roberts and rule are both play­ing extremely well,” mcgraw said. They’re going to be hard to con­tain. That’s been a problem for us with some of the quicker teams in the big east.” 
roberts averages 15.3 points per game, and rule averages 14.7. The irish’s size could become a factor in stopping the Friars, as the irish have several taller guards. as long as notre dame’s defense can stay in front of roberts and rule, it can frustrate providence’s drives. 
providence senior forward brianna edwards also puts up good numbers, but the irish fea­ture four players averaging in double digits: senior guard skylar diggins, junior guard Kayla mcbride, junior forward natalie achonwa, and freshman guard Jewell loyd. as a team, the irish average 46 percent on field goals to providence’s 36.9 percent, so pro­vided notre dame avoids mistakes and laziness on defense, it should be able to use its big scorers to find the offensive rhythm necessary to beat the Friars. 
mcgraw hopes that the lessons about defense will stick from the game against pittsburgh as the irish continue to develop. Though she is proud of what her team has accomplished, mcgraw still wants more, and that starts with the pre­game attitude. The irish will head into saturday’s game ready to work and learn. 
“you always learn,” mcgraw said. “individually, each player can look at their game and see that they can do better, and as a team you see what you can work on. we’re a long way from our potential.” 
notre dame and providence will take the court at the purcell pavilion on saturday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

LOWER YOUREXPECTATIONS | rago & paTricKcross HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: mischa barton, 27; Tatyana ali, 34; ed helms, 39; neil diamond, 72. 
Happy Birthday: a creative approach to how you do any job you are given will be your best bet. once you differentiate between what other people offer and what you can supply, you will find it much easier to beat any competition you encounter. share your knowledge and skills and you will develop a good working relationship with your peers. your numbers are 4, 13, 20, 23, 31, 40, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you may have to appease someone you care about. emo­tional matters will escalate if you aren’t willing to back down or at least compromise. helping a cause is fine but not if it affects a close relationship. pick and choose your battles wisely. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): communicate and you will get your point across. love is on the rise and making future plans will bring you closer together. someone is likely to call your bluff or ask for a commitment. your timing must be impeccable. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): someone will offer you poor advice or information. do your own research before you make a decision that will alter your reputation. Keep life simple, honor your commitments and you will find workable solutions for any troublesome encounter you face. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): determination will get you where you want to go, but don’t be foolish and overspend to make an impression. only offer what you can af­ford. giving in to demands will set you back and cause a problem with someone you love. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): a business trip or meeting will pay off as long as you are con­sistent and stay within your means. a partnership can help you meet the demands being put on you, but only if you are both willing to share responsibilities equally. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): give others a chance to express what they would like to see happen before you make a decision that affects others. networking will pay off in terms of the people you connect with and the information you receive. love is highlighted. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let an emotional situation stop you from doing what’s right. only offer what’s feasible and be prepared to do things a little differently in order to reach desired results. an element of surprise will help you grab the attention of someone important. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): stick to the people you know you can trust. sharing information with someone unfamiliar will lead to a loss. stick close to home and explore some of the creative ideas you would like to flush out and put into play in the future. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t sit there waiting for someone else to make the first move. Follow your instincts and do what’s best for you. altering the way you live can result in greater opportunities. be open to suggestions but follow your heart. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): size up your situation and you will soon see a right way and a wrong way to proceed. you have to be true to your ethics and morals even if it means letting someone down. Truth will lead you in the right direction. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): it may take a little work, but if you look hard enough, you will find a solution for a sticky situation you face with a friend or relative. spend time at home creating a space that will lead to extra income or comfort. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): you are in the groove, and people will take notice of what you do. mix practicality with ingenuity and interesting concepts, and you will create a buzz that will result in getting the support and help you need. romance is highlighted. 

Birthday Baby: you are an opportunist. you are quick, intelligent and have great vision. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
HOCKEY 

Must-win series 
The No. 8 Irish look to remain calm and turn around the recent losing streak 
By CASEY KARNES 


Sam Gans 
sports writer 

sports writer 
after a rough start to its four-game home stand, notre dame 

it’s too early to hit the panic will aim for a sweep of defensive-
button. minded Ferris state this weekend 
notre dame is entrenched in a to gain some momentum before 
recent slump, but the irish (15-9-0, going back on the road. 
11-5-0-0 ccha) still sit atop the The irish (15-9-0, 11-5-0 ccha) 
ccha standings, are the seventh-were swept last weekend by 
ranked team in the nation and alaska in narrow fashion, with 
are tied for ninth in the pairwise both losses coming by a single 
rankings, the basis for determin­goal. it continued a recent trend 
ing who makes the 16-team ncaa of poor play, as the squad is 1-5 
tournament field. in its last 6 games. one recent 
of course, notre dame’s place bright spot was freshman for-
in the standings and rankings is ward mario 
largely because of its 14-4-0 start lucia scoring a goal in both 
to the season. The team’s recent weekend games. 
play naturally makes fans wonder Junior goalie steven 
whether that early-season success summerhays said the team has 
can be revived, or if it’s a thing of to avoid pressing to break the los­
the past. The irish have lost five of ing streak. 
their last six games since returning “it’s tough, everyone tries to 
from winter break after a three-put more pressure on themselves 
and-a-half week layoff, including during these slumps … to help 
being swept last weekend at home the team out,” summerhays said. 
by alaska. That stat on its own is “everyone wants to do every-
alarming. it gets even worse when thing they can to get out of the 
you look at recent history. slump.” 
last season, the irish began The current irish four-game 
the year 13-6-3. in their final 18 skid is their longest since last 
games, however, they went 6-12-0 February, but the veterans have 
to struggle to a final 19-18-3 re­learned the key to recovery is to 
cord, missing out on the ncaa avoid panic. 
tournament. The slump last year “every team has their rough 
began in early January, just like spots,” junior defenseman Kevin 
this season’s downswing. lind said. “it’s early and we’re 
The similarities between the still in first place, so no panic yet.” 
two seasons jump out, but the in fact, the irish see the losing 
players are insisting this year is streak as an opportunity to learn MICHAEL KRAMM | The Observer different, citing the camaraderie 
Junior center T.J. Tynan skates past an Alaska defenseman in the 2-1 loss to Alaska on Saturday. With the see hocKey PAGE 22 loss, the Irish dropped their first series of the year. see similariTies PAGE 22 
MEN’S BASKETBALL

 Irish move on without Martin 

By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
irish coach mike brey paused the tape and waited. 
no. 20 notre dame, los­er of three of its last four games, was in a film ses­sion Tuesday preparing for saturday’s matchup against south Florida. 
with team leader and graduate student guard scott martin out indefi­nitely with an injury, brey waited for other players to chime in and lead the team. 
in addition to newfound vocal leadership, the irish (15-4, 3-3 big east) are also in search of a fifth starter for saturday’s tilt with the bulls (10-8, 1-5). after los­ing to georgetown 63-47 on monday, notre dame will try to move forward without martin. 
“he’ll go take care of his business to see if he can get healthy,” brey said of martin. “in the meantime we can’t count on that. we’ve got to move forward with our basketball team right now. we’re 3-3 and we’ve got to figure this thing out.” 
brey said getting back on track began with utilizing the four days in between games. 
“we needed a couple good days of hard practice, [Tuesday], [wednesday], [Thursday],” brey said. “right now when you’re 
see basKeTball PAGE 20 




