The independenT To uncover neWSpaper Serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT SainT mary’S iT accuraTely 

volume 47, iSSue 60 | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2013 | ndSmcoBServer.com 
ND sues for relief from HHS mandate 
University re-files lawsuit against U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 
By MARISA IATI 
assistant managing editor 
notre dame re-filed a lawsuit Tuesday for relief from a mandate of the department of health and human Services (hhS) that the university claims violates its right to religious freedom. 
The mandate requires employ­ers, including notre dame and similar religious organizations, to provide contraceptives through their insurance plans or through third-party administrators. 
The complaint, filed in u.S. district court for the northern district of indiana, called on the court to rule that the hhS mandate violates the First amendment, the religious Freedom restoration act and other laws. The lawsuit names hhS Secretary kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of labor Thomas perez, Treasury Secretary Jacob lew and their respective departments as defendants. 
“What’s at stake is this fun­damental right of religious or­ganizations to be exempt from government interference in their religious practice,” university president Fr. John Jenkins told The observer on Tuesday. “So, really, for me, it’s not about the contra­ceptive services or any particular thing. it’s about that larger issue of the fundamental right of any religious organization, whatever the religion, to live out its mission without government interference.” 

The university initially filed a lawsuit challenging the mandate in may 2012. a federal judge dis­missed the lawsuit in January, ruling that notre dame’s claim was not yet “ripe,” meaning it was not ready to be litigated because the university had not incurred any damages as a result of the mandate. 
a university press release published Tuesday stated the university now seeks relief from the courts because the mandate 

see hhS PAGE 4 SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 



Former admin claims discrimination 

By NICOLE MICHELS 
assistant managing editor 
dr. g. david moss, former as­sistant vice president of academic affairs, filed a lawsuit in federal court in South Bend against the university and vice president for Student affairs erin hoffmann­harding, in response to alleged discrimination he faced from the administration. 
moss, who now works as an ad­ministrator with the South Bend community School corp., sued because he was demoted fol­lowing his condemnation of two incidents of racial discrimination at the university in the spring 2012 term. 
The complaint alleges moss pursued a promotion from his position as assistant vice presi­dent of student affairs to associate vice president of student affairs. Subsequently, the complaint asserts hoffmann-harding de­moted moss to the post of senior consultant while attempting to arrange his further demotion or termination. 
hoffmann-harding indicated 
Observer File Photo 

Dr. G. David Moss, former assistant vice president of academic see laWSuiT PAGE 4 affairs, is filing a claim of discrimination following his demotion. 

Army ROTC battalion wins top award 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news Writer 
The notre dame army reserve officer Training corps (roTc) battalion outperformed the other 272 collegiate roTc programs across the nation to win the order of the Founders and patriots of america award, according to a university press release. 
The order of the Founders and patriots of america award is con­sidered the “heisman Trophy” of army roTc and honors one outstanding roTc battalion each year for success in military science and academic programs, according to the press release. The Fightin’ irish Battalion also won the award in 1986 and 1988. 
lieutenant colonel John polhamus, professor of military science, said the battalion’s ca­dets are the reason nd army roTc received the award. 
“We always say that this is tru­ly a cadet-driven battalion, and to me this award really validates that and it goes to show how well-rounded our cadets are,” polhamus said. “The award is re­ally about them. 
see army PAGE 5 


Photo courtesy of John Polhamus 

The Fightin’ Irish Battalion receives the Order of the Founders and Patriots of America Award in a ceremony Nov. 24. 
expert restores statue of Jesus 
By TORI ROECK 
associate news editor 
a pedestal reading “venite ad me omnes,” latin for “come to me everyone,” still stands on god Quad, but the invitation currently lacks a speaker. 
The pedestal normally sup­ports the Sacred heart of Jesus statue, which has stood there since 1893, according to the notre dame archives, but this image of Jesus was removed in late november for restoration. 
charles loving, director and curator of the george rickey Sculpture archive at the Snite museum of art, said he put the university in touch with Thomas podnar, a sculpture conservator from the mckay lodge conservation laboratory in oberlin, ohio. podnar is to restore the Sacred heart of Jesus and three other campus stat­ues: notre dame (our mother) at the north end of notre dame avenue, Father Sorin on god 
see STaTue PAGE 5 


neWS PAGE 3 vieWpoinT PAGE 6 Scene PAGE 9 chuck marTin PAGE 16 BoWl proSpecTS PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 South dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: kevin Song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hillstrom Controller: alex hirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and Saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (uSpS 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 South dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices poSTmaSTer Send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 South dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Which reindeer is your favorite? 

Shourik Dutta 
freshman keough hall 
“prancer.” 
Cole Wintheiser 
freshman morrisey manor 
“dasher.” 

Melchior Perella-Saverese 
freshman Zahm hall 
“vixen.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Melange Gavin 
freshman 
Badin hall 
“rudolph, duh!” 
Ali Flores 
freshman 
pangborn hall 
“vixen.” 
Rich Hidy 
sophomore 
dillon hall 
“lebron!” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

christian myers katie heit Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

lesley Stevenson aaron Sant-miller abi hoverman Samantha Zuba 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Sara Shoemake allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

ESTEEM Program Zen Meditation Soup and Substance Transpose Show: Classic Film: “It’s a 
John ning Tabitha ricketts 
Open House Coleman-Morse on HIV/AIDS “City Beat” Wonderful Life” Innovation Park Center Geddes Hall South Dining Hall DeBartolo Performing 
5:30p.m.- 7 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Arts Center 
Corrections 

Learn about the one-Held in the Meditation Lunch and discussion See Notre Dame’s 3 p.m.-5:15 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as year masters degree. Room. in the Coffee House. dance collective. Free for ND students. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Snapshots with Santa Syria: Why it Matters Track and Field Holiday Gift Auction Advent Lessons and 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
LaFortune Student to US Loftus Sports Center Robinson Center Carols 
however, recognize that we will make 
Center Hesburgh Center 5 p.m.-9 p.m. 4 p.m.-6 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-10 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:15 p.m. Blue and Gold $5 ticket includes Heart 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Take pictures with Talk by aid worker Invitational. auction, entertainment, 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

campus celebrities. Kenan Rahmani. and refreshments. With all Basilica choirs. 


Freshman spotlights ND community on blog 
By JACK ROONEY 
news Writer 
every person at notre dame has his or her own story, and one freshman is trying to tell as many of them as possible on her new blog. 
Freshman laura gruszka lives in cavanaugh hall and operates the recently estab­lished blog, “i am notre dame.” gruszka officially launched the blog on nov. 21 and said the page already has over 4,000 views, more than she ever imagined. 
The blog seeks to tell the sto­ry of people within the notre dame community, whether the subject is a student, faculty member, fan or has some other connection to the university, no matter how small. 
The blog’s “our goal” section says, “notre dame is more than just a campus. more than just a college. more than just a univer­sity. people who pass through campus even once (or never have the chance) find them­selves irrevocably entwined into the ‘notre dame fam­ily,’ a community of people that spans generations, continents, genders, orientations, creeds and colors.” 
gruszka said she was inspired by a similar blog, “humans of new york,” which features short posts about people in new york city with accompanying pictures. 

“i saw the blog humans of new york and i was fascinated. Seeing that made me realize there was more to the world than my own little bubble,” gruszka said. “and when i came [to notre dame] i realized how connected everyone is and how special this place is.” 
gruszka, who is originally from valparaiso, ind., said she does not restrict the blog to students and faculty of notre dame. 
“it’s not limited to just the stu­dents. even the people of South Bend who aren’t a part of the university are still affected by it and have a story,” gruszka said. 
gruszka plays percussion for the notre dame band and said her friends in the band opened her eyes to the diversity of the university. 
“There’s more diversity here than there was at my high school, and meeting all the peo­ple on drum line made me real­ize just how special notre dame is,” gruszka said. 
gruszka said she will inter­view “basically anyone” for the blog, but she needs to be brave enough to approach someone she thinks is interesting. 
gruszka said people have been “crazy willing” to talk to 
paid adverTiSemenT 
her for the blog. 
“That’s just the notre dame family, i guess. When i ask peo­ple if they have a minute to talk, they always say ‘yeah,’” gruszka said. 
gruszka said she is grateful for the support and encourage­ment she has received from friends and strangers alike. 
“i am so humbled and grate­ful that i just don’t know what to say,” gruszka said. “everyone has just been very supportive.” 
gruska said she plans to keep the blog active throughout her time at notre dame, but does not yet know what she will do if the blog is still fruitful at the end of her senior year. 
“i though it would be cool to keep it running through my four years as a testament to my time at notre dame,” gruszka said. “if it lasts until senior year, i’ll figure out what to do with it then.” 
gruszka said she tries to keep herself out of the blog and sim­ply let people tell their own stories. 
“it’s not about me. i want it to be about the people of notre dame and i am the vehicle for them,” guszka said. “i try to keep myself out of it as much as possible.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 

Snowy BYU weekend honors football seniors 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
notre dame’s home football season wrapped up with the nov. 23 game against Brigham young university in frigid weather, and director of game day operations mike Seamon said it was a “very successful” weekend celebrating the team’s 31 seniors. 
Seamon said the highlight was recognizing the contributions the senior players made to the program at the Friday Football luncheon, the pep rally and the pre-game program. 
“overall, it was a great weekend honoring all the seniors and their contributions to notre dame,” Seamon said. 
at the pep rally Friday night, captains Bennett Jackson, TJ Jones and Zack martin spoke about their experience as part of the team and the university. a highlight video was shown for each captain at the pep rally, and all seniors were recognized with highlight videos during the Friday luncheon. 
“despite the extremely cold weather, there was still a sizeable crowd on campus for the home season finale,” Seamon said. “The tunnel on Friday had 4,150 visitors and the pep rally at the compton [Family ice arena] had approxi­mately 6,800 in attendance. 
“We estimated that there were approximately 85,000 fans on campus for the Byu weekend.” 
phil Johnson, chief of police for notre dame Security police, said the day turned out well from his group’s perspective despite the cold weather and snow. 
“Traffic ran smoothly and there were no reported crashes,” Johnson said. “police made two custodial arrests Saturday, nov. 
23. one man was arrested for pub­lic intoxication and possession of marijuana and the other for pub­lic intoxication.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Smc screens documentary on girls’ education 
By CHELSEY FATTAL 
news Writer 
The film “girl rising,” which tells the stories of nine girls from different parts of the world all seeking education, will be shown today at 5:15 p.m. in the vander vennet Theatre of the Saint mary’s Student center. 
connie adams, administrative director of Belles against violence (Bavo) said the film is well suited to the mission of Saint mary’s as a women’s educational institution. 
“What if there are females in the world not obtaining an education? Who will fight for them if you don’t?” 
Connie Adams 
administrative director 
Belles Against Violence 
“The featured film is about the strength of the human spirit and the power of education that will work to transform societies,” adams said. “as an institution, we are dedicated to the empow­erment and education of women. Saint mary’s is the perfect venue to feature this film and provide a space for dialogue on the impor­tance of education for girls and women.” 
The documentary illuminates the general prevalence of the gen­der issues in countries around the world, where females are com­monly neglected educational op­portunities, simply because of their gender, adams said. 
adams said admission to the screening is free and she hoped it would be well-attended by stu­dents, especially those unfamiliar with global education issues and education policy. 
“We have a passion for equal­ity and women’s issues, and we want to be active in spreading this interest. our goal is to support, empower, educate and challenge our fellow students,” adams said. “What if there are females in the world not obtaining an educa­tion? Who will fight for them if you don’t?” 
adams said the idea to sponsor a showing of “girl rising” originat­ed among the members of Bavo. 
Bavo is sponsoring the film screening in collaboration with the women’s education organization She’s the First and Saint mary’s campus ministry, adams said. 
Contact Chelsey Fattal at cfatta01@saintmarys.edu 



The oBServer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2013 | ndSmcoBServer.com 

HHS 
conTinued From page 1 
will take effect Jan. 1, 2014. 
under the final iteration of the mandate, which the obama ad­ministration announced on July 2, an organization that objects to providing contraceptives on religious grounds can offer em­ployees a plan that does not pro­vide contraceptive coverage. The health insurer administering the plan then enrolls employees in a separate, individual, private pol­icy that only covers contracep­tives at no extra cost. 
notre dame is self-insured. a self-insured organization that objects to providing contracep­tives can notify its third-party healthcare administrator that it objects. 
The administrator then “noti­fies enrollees in the health plans that it is providing or arranging separate no-cost payments for contraceptive services for them for as long as they remain en­rolled in the health plan,” accord­ing to the hhS website. 
“What we have to do is we have to write a letter saying we ob­ject to these services, and then this third-party administrator is obligated by the government to provide them,” Jenkins said. “So, we have to cooperate in that, and our objection is with the cooperation.” 
Jenkins said the lawsuit is not specifically about contraceptives, but about notre dame’s right to practice the catholic faith. 
“What it is about is the funda­mental right of a religious orga­nization to live out its mission, to follow its own teaching, rather than the government mandate of the day,” he said. “We feel we have a right grounded in the constitution and in standing leg­islation to be exempt from [the hhS mandate], … and we want that right recognized. 
“now, if the government wants to provide those [contraceptive] services another way, that’s their business. We’re not trying to pre­vent that. We’re just saying, ‘let us live out our mission.’” 
an email the office of human resources (ohr) sent to faculty and staff Tuesday stated “the university will continue to pro­vide coverage for contraceptives when medically necessary for reasons other than contraceptive purposes.” 
The university engaged in dis­cussions about the mandate with the obama administration, but the groups were unable to reach a mutually satisfactory agreement, Jenkins said. 
“i thought it would work. in the end, it didn’t work,” he said. “But what is in question is the scope of our rights as a religious orga­nization. … The courts will de­cide that, but this dialogue will continue. 
“We’re not going to take our ball and go home. We understand the government has concerns. We’ll continue to work with them to try to find a way in which we can re­tain our rights.” 
Managing Editor Meghan Thomassen contributed to this report. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
Lawsuit 
conTinued From page 1 
to moss that she was consider­ing terminating his employment from summer 2012 until august 2013, the complaint claims. 
moss supervised the call to action movement, an african­american student group, in the spring of 2012 as part of his job duties, the complaint alleges. during this time, the complaint asserts someone or a group of people targeted the group, leav­ing pieces of fried chicken in the organization’s mailbox on two separate occasions. 
moss responded comprehen­sively and vocally to these racial stereotyping actions on campus, the complaint asserts, and his actions earned significant pub­licity both on and off campus. his response included support­ing the call to action movement, calling for investigation of the incidents and planning ways to “address the underlying racism on campus that caused them,” the complaint alleges. 
moss sought promotion after his public involvement with the movement, and the complaint alleges hoffmann-harding’s subsequent actions in demoting and threatening moss with ter­mination were motivated by race and in retaliation for moss’s con­tributions to the call to action student group. 
moss is seeking monetary damages and a judgment that proves the university’s actions were unconstitutional and violated federal employment statutes. 
university spokesman dennis Brown said the university is in­vestigating the complaint. 
“We are examining the com­plaint, which we just received, but we’re confident that mr. moss was treated fairly during his employment, and we reject the claim that we discriminate,” Brown said. “We also want to make it clear that the incidents that occurred in February 2012 were unacceptable. We have taken them very seriously and 
— as evidenced by the commit­tee on diversity appointed by [university president] Fr. Jenkins earlier this year — we continue to make every effort to ensure that our campus is welcoming to all.” 
Brown said the town hall meeting called by the university officers.” 
moss also filed a claim with the u.S. equal employment opportunity commission (eeoc). after investigation of his claim, the commission reported that it is “unable to conclude that the information obtained establishes violations of the statutes.” 
Thomas dixon, moss’ attor­ney, did not respond to requests for comment. 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
in response to the discriminato­ry incidents has been employed as a way to train staff. 
“The town hall meeting spon­sored after the event in 2012 was videotaped, and has been used extensively in training of student affairs staff, including hundreds of residence hall staff and each department within student af­fairs,” Brown said. “in addition, in collaboration with student leaders and at the suggestion of students, diversity training has been added to freshman orien­tation and with campus safety 

paid adverTiSemenT 



them and somehow finishing 
Statue Army 
them so the welds don’t show, 
conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 

and then they’ll repaint it.” Quad and Thomas dooley near loving said podnar will at­
“To earn the first place honor the grotto. tempt to recreate the original 
out of [273 programs] speaks loving said the university paint color of the statue, which 
volumes. That goes to show how reached out to the outside con-will look quite different from the 
well our cadets are performing servator because he will be weathered version the campus is 
and how well respected they are better equipped to meet their accustomed to seeing when the 
once they’re commissioned.” restoration goals. statue returns next February. 
master Sergeant marshall “if we had done nothing, it “it might be a little shocking 
yuen, senior military science would have just rusted out and to some people, but in the long 
instructor, said he was glad the collapsed, so [the number] one term it’ll be good for it to have 
cadets were honored for all the [goal of the restoration is] to en-been preserved so it’s there for 
work they put in above and be-sure its long-term preservation,” future generations,” he said. “it’s 
yond their regular courses. loving said. “[The number] two something that any sculpture 
“it’s nice to see [the cadets] [goal is] to make it look like what requires over time. it doesn’t 
get recognized on a national it looked like initially.” suggest any deficiency in the 
level for that hard work that loving said podnar restored way it was manufactured or the 
they put in there because they the other three campus images way it’s been taken care of. it’s 
do put in a lot more work than without removing them, but the just part of the process.” 
the average college student Sacred heart of Jesus Statue had even though restoration is an 
does,” yuen said. “They have to be transported to ohio for important part of maintaining 
all their academics and normal proper refurbishing because it outdoor statues, loving said the 
notre dame things that they had suffered extensive damage university does not have its stat-
have to do on top of all of this from “weather and age.” ues restored very often. he said 
army stuff they have to do.” “There’s probably some at-he believes this is the first time 
president emeritus rev. notre dame cadets are abso-that we actually have a good mospheric fall of pollutants since 1893 the statue has been 
edward a. “monk” malloy pre-lutely on par with West point in program here.” from places like gary, ind., and repaired. 
sented the award to polhamus every respect. roTc cadets receive schol­east chicago, but primarily just Within the past five years, 
and senior cadet and battalion “So i thought it was very ap-arships once they commit to weather,” loving said. “like an members of the notre dame 
commander chris lillie during propriate to be recognized at serving in the army after gradu­old car, eventually the paint will alumni club of gettysburg no-
the men’s basketball game ver-the notre dame-army game to ation, and one way the army wear off. many of the sculptures ticed damage on the statue of 
sus army on nov. 24, lillie said. show that there are others out ranks battalions is by measur­are not painted metal. many are Fr. William corby outside corby 
“We actually requested there, other than West point, ing how many scholarship stu­cast bronze, but that particular hall, a copy of which also stands 
Father malloy. he’s been a big who have volunteered to put dents continue in their roTc one is cast iron.” in gettysburg, and raised funds 
proponent of roTc on cam-themselves in harm’s way and programs, Wagner said. Because the Sacred heart of to restore it, loving said. 
pus,” lillie said. be america’s future leaders.” “part of the criteria in the Jesus Statue is painted, most of “it’s kind of nice when peo­
polhamus said having the all members of the Fightin’ award is how many cadets you the restoration entails stripping ple who are alums or friends of 
ceremony during the army irish Battalion marched onto retain that are on scholarship,” paint from the statue, repairing notre dame recognize the need 
game highlighted the fact roTc the court during the halftime he said. “if people quit and get cracks in it and repainting it, and come up with the money,” 
cadets are peers of those study-event, which included a presen-rid of their scholarship then that loving said. he said. “as far as i know there’s 
ing at West point. tation by the color guard and reflects poorly on the program “The paint is coming off and in no existing budget line to take 
“i’m an army grad,” a video highlighting the bat-in general but also in terms of places it’s cracking, so it was re-care of these statues.” 
polhamus said. “i’ve always talion’s current members and the award.” moved,” he said. “They’ll chemi­
preached, having been on both alumni. Wagner said physical fitness cally take off the paint. They’ll Contact Tori Roeck at 
sides of the fence now — West notre dame army roTc has of the overall battalion also repair the cracks by welding vroeck@nd.edu 
point as well as roTc — that a history of distinction among counts heavily in determining roTc programs. The Fightin’ the award recipient. he said the 
paid adverTiSemenT 

irish Battalion earned the battalion must submit physical 
u.S. army’s cadet command training (pT) scores to the bri­macarthur award, which rec-gade leaders once per semester ognizes to the top school in for each cadet. each of the eight regional roTc “There are three events: push-brigades, in 2012 and 2013, up, situp and two-mile run,” polhamus said. notre dame is Wagner said. “it boils down to a one of only two schools ever to 300-point score.” win the macarthur award twice The rising senior class attends in a row. an intensive four-week evalua­
“i have a suspicion that the tion course during the summer, reason we were nominated lillie said. more than 5,000 ca­[for the order of the Founders dets are ranked from first to last and patriots of america award] based on their performance in is that we won back-to-back activities testing their physical, macarthur awards,” polhamus tactical and leadership skills. said. “Those designate us as the “our program had one of top program in our brigade, so the highest averages in the na­of the 40 schools in our brigade tion with these last summer’s we earned that designation.” scores,” lillie said. 
Senior cadet and company despite the accolades, pre­commander macklin Wagner paring cadets to enter the army said winning a macarthur and serve their country remains award helps, but does not guar-the chief priority, yuen said. antee, success with the order “These cadets, they have an of the Founders and patriots of awesome responsibility once america award. they leave college,” yuen said. 
“it’s more like a BcS than it is “They’re going to be leaders in a playoff system,” Wagner said. the army, what we call the na­“i’d say it’s definitely more likely tion’s greatest resource. to be from one of those schools “We try to impart on them [that win a macarthur award].” that it’s not just about them 
lillie said the potential for once they get out there and recruiting new members was a start serving as officers in the positive byproduct of winning army. it’s about the army, their the award and receiving it at a soldiers, soldiers’ families and public event. their country all rolled up into 
“it’s kind of a recruiting tool that awesome responsibility on campus,” he said. “We don’t that they’ll have in a very short have very good visibility … so amount of time from now.” these kinds of things [help us with] getting our name out Contact Lesley Stevenson at there and showing the campus lsteven1@nd.edu 


let’s talk about sex 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Taken for granted 

Wei Lin 
photographer 

after going back to new york city for the Thanksgiving break, i thought about what i am most thankful for. over the span of five days, three groups of people showed me what i am most thankful for. Seeing their unfortunate circumstances allowed me to reconsider what was actu­ally important in my life. it shouldn’t be the money, fame and respect i was so intent on achieving. instead, i should be thankful i have a good and stable fam­ily, great friends and relatively normal health. 
i met some family friends, Jennifer and anthony, when they visited my home on Thanksgiving day. What was strange about their visitation was they came alone, without either parent. What i learned about them was their parents had divorced years ago and Thanksgiving was not something they celebrated together. To think Thanksgiving did not mean a single thing to their parents shocked me. Seeing them spend their holidays without their parents made me realize how lucky i am to have parents who love each other and their children so much. 
Friday night, i accompanied my for­mer co-worker, Jeremy, to the hospital because his grandmother had fallen ill. Jeremy felt lonely waiting in the hospital by himself and wanted someone to talk to so he called me to come over. odd thing is, i never expected to be asked since Jeremy and i never casually hung out with each other. i asked him why he asked me to come instead of someone else. he replied by saying he didn’t have any friends who would have been willing to come and he knew i was the only who would have agreed to sit with him in the hospital. This trip to the hospital showed me how lucky i am to have friends who i trust to be there for me when i need them to be. it made me happy to know i made the right choice in having a couple of re­ally close friends instead of innumerable acquaintances. 
The last couple of people i met with were my cousin, his wife and his daugh­ter. his daughter is so sweet and cute she’ll make your hearts melt. She is still so young the signs of her down syndrome are not as prominent. my cousin was dis­traught when he first found out his only daughter had down syndrome, but he is handling it very well and loves his daugh­ter unconditionally. he offered my family a few words of wisdom. my cousin said while he will have to face many obstacles in the future, my parents were blessed to just have healthy children and good health trumps over all. 
i learned a lot this Thanksgiving, and i am truly grateful for all i have that i may have overlooked in the past. The simplest thing we take for granted may be some­one else’s one and only wish. 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Amanda Peña 
The Bubble 
The beer pong tournament lasted for hours. 20 cups, 18 people, two tables, only one winning team. Standing in a puddle of cheap natty light, you peered into your opponent’s soul as you sunk the game-winning shot into the final cup. you and your teammate rejoiced in drunken camaraderie un­til coming back from that epic Friday night halloween party. 
a week later, your teammate got a cold sore from the herpes Simplex 1 virus (hSv-1) without ever realizing some random person passed it to him (and potentially others) from the cups in the beer pong tournament. and let’s say someone else in the tournament was also infected but did not show any symptoms. later that week, she per­formed oral sex on her boyfriend and months down the road he later found he has genital herpes. 
These people may be sharing drinks, chapstick or an unclear memory cap­tured on nd makeouts. nevertheless, whether you engage in sexual inter­course or not while at notre dame, your sexual health and the health of your peers play a vital role in your future. 
hSv-1 is one of the most common sexually transmitted infections (STis), often showing no-to-mild symptoms or being passed without having inter­course. The cdc shows chlamydia as the most commonly reported bacterial STi, with roughly 75 percent of infect­ed women and 50 percemt of infected men showing no symptoms. There are also many sexually transmitted dis­eases (STds) making its way through our student body that you may never become aware of. 
now, if you’re not sexually active or think these types of statistics don’t apply to our student body, i implore you to seriously reflect on the hookup culture imposed by tense gender relations and interaction among our peers. chances are, you probably have several friends who are sexually active — or at least you know of a few people who are. i am not in any way implying every person hooking up or in rela­tionships is an immediate threat to the sexual health of our student body, but without careful consideration of the consequences and a general lack of information about individual health, they have the potential to be. and in the relationships you’ll develop after college, it will become even more im­portant to own your sexual health. 

The prominent catholic identity engrained in our environment is a double-edged sword that shapes a culture of compassion and concern for the greater good while hindering our ability to have important conversa­tions surrounding sexual health or sex in general. 
a friend of mine recently visited St. liam’s for precautionary STd/ STi testing. To his disappointment, he was turned away because he did not exhibit any symptoms that would necessitate testing. another friend shared how she takes birth control for menstruation regulation in secret be­cause she fears others will assume she is sexually active. 
Students should not be afraid, qui­eted or turned away when it comes to taking control of their health. although the catholic mission strictly opposes the use of contraceptives and premarital sex, it can successfully cultivate healthier relationships that lead individuals toward making mor­ally conscious and informed decisions that affect them and all of their rela­tionships — romantic or not — with others. 
notre dame students are just as sus­ceptible as any person to contracting diseases that increase their chances of developing hiv/aids or cervical can­cer, or passing them on through preg­nancy. victims of sexual assault and rape are also incredibly vulnerable, and the emotional trauma for all in­fected persons can be particularly damaging. 
my parents openly and honestly educated me about my sexual health from a very young age; however, many parents are not as blunt or comfort­able having these conversations with their children. The sex talk needs to extend beyond knowing where babies come from by including the impor­tance of regular check-ups with a phy­sician (i.e. pap tests), reintroducing awareness of STi/STds and making resources and conversations more ac­cessible and normalized. 
due to notre dame’s catholic mis­sion, general sexual health infor­mation is widely underutilized and unknown. i am currently developing a sexual health program proposal that could reconcile the need for sexual health information with our lady’s ideals. i anticipate implementing a pilot program by the 2014-15 academic year that can increase competency of sexual health-related issues, create familiarization of existing resources for STi/STd testing, unplanned preg­nancies, abortion and assault survivor support and create avenues of support where there are none available. 
it is my great hope this article will foster discussion about the types of re­sources students would like to see and identify ways in which we can improve the visibility of existing ones. your questions, suggestions and comments can have a tremendous impact on the direction of this program. So let’s talk about sex and learn how to handle a highly taboo topic for the betterment of our nd family. 
Amanda Peña is a junior and a sustainable development studies major with a poverty studies minor. She can be contacted at apena4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Funding sources for reported lawsuits 
By way of background to my questions, The new york Times reports on the date of this letter the university of notre dame plans to file suit this date against the federal government chal­lenging certain requirements of or under the affordable care act. 
moreover, the united States Supreme court has already agreed to hear at least two “similar suits” which raise issues similar to those the university contemplates pursuing in litigation, both of which have already reached the Supreme court level. 
See Sheryl gay Stolberg, “a new Wave of 
challenges to health law,” p. a1, col. 6 (new york Times nat’l ed., Tuesday, december 3, 2013). my questions to you are: 
1.
 What is or are the source(s) of funding for this lawsuit you reportedly intend to file? 

2. 
are any funds for your contemplated lawsuit going to be drawn from student tuition or other fees paid to you by or on behalf of students at­tending notre dame? 

3. 
are any funds for your contemplated lawsuit going to be drawn from offerings donated by persons attending catholic churches anywhere 


(whether the churches are in the united States or anywhere in foreign countries)? 
if you desire to go beyond answering these questions in your reply, please kindly provide answers to these questions in any case. Thank you for your attention to these matters. 
Sincerely yours, dennis J. Wall, esquire 
Dennis Wall 
class of ‘73 dec. 3 

nd deserves our support 
on Tuesday morning, the university announced it has refiled its lawsuit in the u.S. district court for the northern district of indiana, suing kathleen Sebelius, the department of health and human Services (hhS) and others for relief from the coercive hhS insurance mandate. 
notre dame deserves the entire campus com­munity’s support and gratitude for taking this courageous step “neither lightly nor gladly, but with sober determination,” as Fr. Jenkins put it in an announcement accompanying the university’s initial may 21, 2012 filing (which was dismissed on technical grounds last december). This deci­sion is one that bespeaks real institutional cour­age and a willingness to speak truth to power, which is never easily done, and only at great cost. 
i am very proud of both the university’s deci­sion to renew its litigation — a decision that was surely more difficult than her initial decision to sue — and the way in which her leadership ar­rived at this decision. 
Fr. Jenkins said, in his presidential inaugural address in September of 2005: 
“The struggle to be a great catholic university in a world that has become both increasingly sec­ular and more radically religious has placed notre dame in a unique position at the heart of the most complex issues facing our society. We have not just an opportunity, but a duty to think and speak and act in ways that will guide, inspire and heal — not just for the followers of the catholic faith, but for all our neighbors in the nation and the world.” 
With this decision, notre dame has done just that. 
Thank you, Fr. Jenkins and the leadership of our lady’s university, for making this courageous witness against an unjust law. i sincerely applaud your decision to do so. 
Michael Bradley 
senior 
dillon hall 
dec. 3 
UWIRE 

Critics of Healthcare.gov, Obama go too far 
David Swenton 
The daily orange 

in the past few weeks, heaps of criti­cism have been piled on the obama administration for the botched rollout of the affordable care act, and right­fully so. more than a month into the law’s implementation, problems with healthcare.gov aren’t fully resolved. 
While critics — who come from both sides of the political spectrum — are certainly justified in taking issue with how the administration has handled things to this point, some have taken it too far. 
last Thursday, The new york Times published an article in which columnist michael d. Shear essentially compares the mishandled obamacare rollout to president george W. Bush’s response to hurricane katrina in 2005. 
although each serves as an example of a presidential misstep, there is no justifiable way to compare hurricane katrina to the affordable care act. 
katrina devastated an entire re­gion of the country, costing billions in damage and claiming thousands of lives. president Bush appeared to be completely ignorant of just how bad things were when he asserted that michael Brown, then-director of Fema, was doing a “heck of a job.” 
in reality, Fema responded slowly and demonstrated a complete lack of preparedness. 
Today, the administration has shown a lack of preparedness in terms of implementing the website that allows citizens to choose an insurance plan, but its response has not been nearly as disastrous as the Bush administration’s was. 
nor have the consequences of obamacare’s troubles been nearly as horrific as those of the botched hurricane katrina response. 
What are the consequences of the technical problems experienced by healthcare.gov? at worst, potential enrollees must wait longer to sign up for a plan. 
now consider the consequences of the Bush administration’s response to katrina. it’s not unreasonable to think that more lives could have been saved if Fema had been more prepared and taken action with more urgency. 
Thankfully there’s hope for the law once the technical issues plaguing it are resolved. 

according to a report published in the los angeles Times, some states that use their own systems, such as california, are on pace to hit enrollment targets for 2014. 
“What we are seeing is incredible momentum,” said peter lee, direc­tor of covered california, which is the nation’s largest state insurance marketplace. 
if and when healthcare.gov is fully operational, this trend will hopefully be seen nationwide, which is exactly what proponents of obamacare have hoped for. 
in the event that happens, it’s quite possible that the law’s troubled rollout will be largely forgotten and be seen as a success, rather than a disastrous liability. 
What’s important is that it happens sooner rather than later, because the 2014 midterm elections are just less than a year away. The success (or fail­ure) of obamacare has big implications for how democrats — who have largely supported the law — will perform in these elections. 
The problem-laden implementation of medicare part d, which took effect in 2006, proved to be an embarrassment for the Bush administration, and ulti­mately cost the gop some of the sup­port of senior citizens, who comprise a solid portion of the republican base. 
and look what happened in the 2006 elections: democrats won control of both houses of congress (albeit for more reasons than just medicare part d). 
Simply put, obamacare could be wildly successful, but the administra­tion needs to first figure out what’s causing these issues and fix them. it’d be a big boost for the democratic party, who is trying to retain control of the Senate and win back the house. 
and if president obama is going to win more victories on issues such as immigration reform, he needs a congress controlled by democrats. let’s hope the administration can get its act together and produce a smoother rollout going forward. 
The Daily Orange is the independent student newspaper serving Syracuse University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By JIMMY KEMPER 
Scene Writer 

The christmas season is upon us. 
as we drift toward the end of this semester and a much-needed break, our heads are filled with visions of sugar plums and … death metal? Bassist J.J. hrubovcak of death metal band hate eternal has just released “death metal christmas: hellish renditions of christmas classics,” which, contrary to popular belief, is exactly what it sounds like. 
hrubovcak teamed up with his brother mike, vocal­ist of hard rockers monstrosity and vile, and his hate eternal bandmate erik rutan, a guitarist and notable producer, in order to produce the most twisted christmas album you will ever hear. unlike those atrocious, terrify­ing novelty metal christmas albums that no one enjoys, this ep is actually an excellently crafted piece of musi­cianship. hrubovcak overlays primal growls, crushingly heavy guitar work and pounding drums on top of once innocent traditional melodies, and it surprisingly works, thanks to its wonderfully intense passion. 
With “death metal christmas,” hrubovcak has taken some of the world’s most cherished christmas carols and ripped out the very soul of the songs, replacing those tired, overdone themes of the joy of the nativity with messages of humanity’s impending doom at the birth and rise of azrael, an angel of death in some hebrew and islamic lore. 
With the song’s opening track, “unrest For melancholy 
By DREW KOCAK 
Scene Writer 

i would like to start this off by saying that i am not an avid follower of rap and hip-hop. i can’t even say that i know more than one song by Tupac or Biggie. okay, i don’t know any songs by either of them. hate me. But i feel, in an industry saturated with painfully meaningless radio rap, hopsin has made a name for himself as an art­ist truly passionate and serious about his craft. 
after starting underground, as most respected rappers do (apologies to all you drake fans out there), hopsin has accrued quite a following, including 1.5 million fans on Facebook. a west coast rapper, i like to compare his style to that of the revered eminem. at this point, some of you are probably dismissing this review thinking, “hold up, this kid doesn’t even know any pac songs and now he’s comparing a rapper i’ve never heard of with marshall?” 
give me a chance to explain. 

hopsin raps about whatever is on his mind at any given moment. he doesn’t worry about putting off an image to please audiences. his music is anything but insincere 
— the emotions he conveys through his lyrics tend to in­volve extreme levels of pent up anger at the world around him. his lyrics can be cruder than they need to be at times and involve a good bit of hate toward promiscu­ous women. But though he has his crude songs, he writes what he wants, strives to write not just a few inspirational songs and backs all of this up with lyrical prowess, much like eminem. 
men (god rest ye merry gentlemen),” hrubovcak says, “at this stage in the story, the earth is in great turmoil, thus the melancholy men can get no rest from their suf­fering. cultures from around the world are looking for answers. The song lyrics basically warn the human race that this demon is now born and will seduce every last mind on this planet into altering their morals and con­victions to suit his purpose unless man refocuses. he is not at all direct but very insidious.” 
The record’s other four songs are not lacking in terms of intensity, either. The grim, down-tempo “earthen kings” retains the time signature of the original “We Three kings,” but really highlights the concept of the album, painting a dark image of an unholy apocalypse. 
nothing is safe from the spirited wrath of “death metal christmas,” not even the kid-friendly “The dance of the Sugar plum Fairy” from Tchaikovsky’s nutcracker ballet. This instrumental track, which begins with the open­ing bars of the classic orchestral version, is sure to melt your face off with its epic death metal prowess and even puts Trans-Siberian orchestra’s intense christmas works to shame. The group even has a murderous rendition of “greensleeves,” better known as “What child is This?” 
The album finishes off with “o come, o come azrael,” based off “o come, o come emmanuel.” it tears the orig­inal apart in a violent, impressively brutal symphony of death metal bliss that is sure to leave you paralyzed by the end. 
What’s great about this album is that it manages to avoid making a mess of sillier christmas songs such as 
now that i’ve explained myself, i’ll focus on hopsin’s latest release, “knock madness.” 
The album opens up with a more serious track, “The Fiends are knocking,” including his thoughts on the hype behind the album, then transitions into inspira­tional stories about how hopsin has changed fans for the good. These stories gave me that tingle you get when an artist establishes that brief little emotional connection through their music and lyrics. (or is that just me?) either way, it’s an impressive track. 
in the next song, “hop is Back,” hopsin gets hostile, calling out kanye West and kendrick lamar. he raps, “i got a problem yo/i was ecstatic to buy yeezus/But i burned it first, heard it and snapped it in five pieces.” he goes on to address kendrick saying, “his high is still re­ally short to me.” 
This single caused a good bit of controversy, as well as some warnings from fans cautioning hop not to get on kendrick’s bad side. it’s definitely worth checking out. 
“hip hop Sinister” displays an angry hop shouting about george Zimmerman, self-righteous rappers and his own lyrical ability.  it’s a “rap god” type of song in which hopsin defines his position in the rap game. While eminem claims to be the greatest rapper alive, hopsin secures his spot as the bad guy of rap. 
another single on the album, “old Friend,” is actu­ally the sixth song in the “ill mind” series hopsin has released. This series includes six songs in which hopsin expresses his social views, and he does so quite strong­ly. “old Friend” shows a sad hopsin reminiscing over a “rudolph the red-nosed reindeer,” instead focusing on more somber and sacred pieces to create a serious and disturbingly beautiful piece of work. if you’re looking for the most heretical and bloodcurdling renditions of old-time carols and vintage hymns ever recorded, want to hear one of the most fascinating death metal concepts ever recorded or even just want to terrify your room­mates while they study for exams, you should without a doubt give yourself the gift of “death metal christmas” this holiday season. 
“death metal christmas: hellish renditions of christmas classics” is available now at the proj­ect’s Bandcamp page, but be sure to also visit deathmetalchristmas.com, where you can read the original and updated song lyrics. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Death Metal Christmas: Hellish Renditions of Christmas Classics” 
J.J. Hrubovcak 
Label: Bandcamp 

Tracks: “Unrest For Melancholy Men (God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen),” “Earthen Kings” 

friend he lost (mentally) to crystal meth. The choruses are soulfully sung by hop, and every verse ends with a line about the fire of drugs burning his friend out in the end. The final lines involve a teary-sounding hop and a trancelike chant about crystal meth, artistically repre­senting his friend’s addiction to the substance. 
i would have given this album a perfect five if i believed in perfect scores. hopsin is swiftly climbing to the top of the rap game and his confidence leads me to believe he’ll become an even bigger name in rap than he already is. in a recent interview, he spoke about blowing up, “it’s go­ing to happen. how do i know? Because i am a human on earth and if one human does something, then i can do it too. There’s no difference.” 
Contact Drew Kocak at wkocak@nd.edu 
“Knock Madness” 
Hopsin 

Label: Funk Volume 
Tracks: “Hop Is Back,” “Tears to Snow,” “Bad Guys Get Left Behind” If you like: Eminem, Tech N9ne 


SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


Before getting into the next five albums in the countdown, let’s take some time to explore the concept of a collaborative ranking list. When John asked me to help him out with a Top 20 list he was assigned for the paper, i was originally apprehen­sive about contributing. 
i was worried about differing music tastes.  as much as we respect each other’s opinions concerning music, there are natu­rally going to be dissentions or unfamiliar­ity. John knows a lot more about electronic music than i do. personally, my biggest is­sue was if i downright did not agree with an album’s inclusion or exclusion. For me, this came to fruition with John’s love of chvrcheS’ debut, which i did not find nearly holistically as strong as he does. however, such is the nature of a collabora­tion of this sort. We agreed on a lot and de­fended a few records, respectively. Still, do not let either one of us detract from the oth­er; all of the albums featured on the entire­ty of this list are worth exploring. —M.M. 
15.) “Old” – Danny Brown 
By maTT mcmahon 

When danny Brown released the cover for “old,” i proclaimed if i enjoyed the tracks half as much as the artwork, i would love the album. Somehow, Brown outdid himself and his music surpassed even the album’s cover. a follow-up masterpiece to his excellent breakout mixtape “XXX,” “old” proves he should definitely be con­sidered one of the best in the game. Brown constructed a music lover and apprecia­tor’s album. he juxtaposes the serious and haunting styles of his somber, gothic per­sona with the outrageous bombast of his partying nature. 
Brown wants to be at the forefront of his genre, remembered for his innovation and critical appeal. With his storytelling other artists, he’s achieving what he has set out to do. 

choice cuts: “Side a [old],” “Side B [dope],” “dip” 
14.) “Major Arcana” – Speedy Ortiz 
By maTT mcmahon 
The release of “major arcana,” the proper debut full-length studio album of massachusetts’s Speedy ortiz, proves that guitar driven indie rock still exists. and better yet, here it absolutely flourishes. The angst-ridden voice of lead singer Sadie dupuis, coupled with warped, crunching riffs combine for one of the catchiest and grittiest releases of the year. The front-woman, sharing guitar duty with matt robidoux and bassist darl Ferm, create angular, distorted melodies swinging from quiet to loud tension and explosion. on top of it all, dupuis’s tenacious-while-poetic lyricism and wry-yet-caustic tongue ex­ude personality. The band’s performance recalls the fondly remembered 90s indie noise pop. meanwhile, dupuis charms with her starkness and a raw emotional performance that cuts to the core and stings through the speakers. 
choice cuts: “no Below,” “plough,” “Tiger Tank” 

13.) “Obsidian” – Baths 
By John darr 
“obsidian” is dark. it’s not the kind of jump-when-the-ghost-pops-out dark, not the apocalyptic movie dark. it’s the ten­sion and fear we face our everyday lives. 
it’s seeing a cliff and instinctively see­ing yourself fall off its edge. it’s wonder­ing if your intense, close relationship with someone is deeper than a hormonal push and pull. it’s wondering how to live in the face of death’s inevitability. 
“obsidian” finds Baths (singer/ songwriter/producer Will Weisenfeld) of each word. Flitting from light postal Service electronica to symphonic electro-acoustic ballads to throbbing industrial, Baths covers as much musical ground as he does lyrical. and yet “obsidian” is tightly focused, bound by meticulously tight production and thematic cohesion. Whereas many albums sacrifice either scope or coherence, Baths manages both here, and the product is truly something to behold. 

choice cuts: “ironworks,” “no eyes,” “phaedra” 

12.) “The Bones of What You Believe” – CHVRCHES 
By John darr 

Somewhere in this world, there is a huge pile of bright shiny things and it is guarded by a moat of golden retriever puppies. For their debut album, chvrcheS swam/ cuddled through the moat, ascended the pile with proper equipment and found the twelve shiniest and brightest things. They then threw them in the moat so that the puppies could play with them, thus infusing them with magical even-shinier powers. When they got home, they melted them into millions of cds and the rest is history. 
in the end, “The Bones of What you Believe” is a perfect pop album. it’s stuffed to the brim with ridiculously catchy hooks, features golden produc­tion that allows every instrument to stand out, and is fronted by ridiculously cute and amazingly talented singer amanda mayberry (and she has a Scottish accent. game over). and if you perhaps thought, “i like sophisticated music, it’s probably not for me,” you’re still in luck – the album boasts not a single cheesy lyric and con­cludes with a gorgeous dream-pop ballad straight out of hipster heaven. Just give it a listen — your ears will thank you. 

11.) “We Are the 21st Century Ambassadors of Peace and Magic” 
– Foxygen 
By maTT mcmahon 
it seems like forever ago that Foxygen’s third lp came out. not just because the indie rock duo released the album in January or because of the ongoing news from the band over the year — from inner turmoil between the two founding mem­bers to solo albums and side project — but because the record has such a solid, clas­sic rock sound. 
Soulful, psychedelic, with the produc­tion style of any 60s and 70s rock favorite, the band pays tribute to the best of experi­mental and glam icons like david Bowie and lou reed. What lifts this album the most though, is that it remains completely the band’s own. Their pop songwriting is inventive, taking the elements given to them from the past and turning them into something fresh. 
choice cuts: “We are the 21st century ambassadors of peace & magic,” “no destruction,” “San Francisco” 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Enjoy final year of BCS madness 

Jack Hefferon 
Sports Writer 
For all the complaints about the current BcS system writ­ten in columns over the years (and there have been plenty), this is supposed to be the year that not even a computer can screw up. 
in the 15 years since the system was adopted, there’s been seasons with five un­defeated teams, there’s been seasons with no undefeated teams. There’s been plenty to be argued about each year, and the Wikipedia article titled “BcS controversies” has a fairly lengthy entry for each and every season since the system was enacted. it’s an unpopular system, and has managed to infuriate the country every winter, with­out fail. The BcS reign has come to an end though, as the outcry of a nation — and some of our congressmen and presidents who apparently have nothing better to do — has successfully lobbied to enact a four-team playoff next year. 
The BcS should be riding off into the sunset with a can’t-miss matchup this year. From the six major confer­ences with automatic bids (acc, aac, Sec, Big Ten, Big 12, pac-12), just two teams have emerged from their regular seasons undefeated: no. 1 Florida State and no. 2 ohio State. a few weeks ago things looked much less clear, but losses by alabama and oregon paved the way for an easy BcS pairing. if the Seminoles and Buckeyes can survive their conference championship games this weekend and move to 13-0, they’ll meet each other on January 6 in pasadena. easy as can be, right? 
not so fast, my friend. 
While those in Tallahassee and columbus inarguably see a win this Saturday as a ticket to the title game, plenty of folks in other towns have inserted themselves in the conversation, too. 
The entitlement starts, as it usually does, in the Sec. When auburn pulled off their miracle, greatest-ever fin­ish to shock alabama last week, they knocked off their conference’s last undefeated team, vaulting them over the crimson Tide into the Sec title game against missouri. as of now, it would seem that no. 3 auburn would need some help from either duke (against FSu) or michigan State (against oSu) to spring them into the title game. But the Sec, which has won seven straight national titles, is not one to be content on the out­side looking in. 
“The winner of the Sec championship game belongs in pasadena,” auburn ath­letic director Jay Jacobs said this week. “it would be, quite frankly, un-american for us not to get a chance to go to pasadena if we’re able to beat missouri, and i believe the same about missouri.” 
The fever has spread fur­ther than the South, too. no. 14 northern illinois, out of the mac, is the country’s other undefeated team, and boasts a bonafide heisman candidate and an average margin of victory of nearly 20 points. With a win in the mac championship over Bowling green, the huskies will have bested every team on their schedule, but still appear to have no shot of playing for the crystal football. even mark dantonio, whose no. 10 michigan State team lost to an unranked team from indiana, said that his one-loss Spartans should be a possibil­ity for the title game as well. The motto for these teams has been “We Want ‘Bama,” and while the opponent they’d face has changed, their stub­born sentiment hasn’t. 
(But don’t mention this to alabama fans, who don’t be­lieve something as small as a late-season loss should sepa­rate them from the BcS three-peat that’s rightfully theirs.) 
Supporters of the current system always assert that the one virtue of the BcS is that it protects the sanctity of college football’s regular season. The argument goes that without a playoff at the end of the year, each game is a playoff game in its own right, where one loss can eliminate a team from title contention. yet, when it comes time to find the game’s two worthi­est teams to compete for its ultimate prize, the regular season results still seem to take a backseat to hype and style points. 
So thank goodness for the coming playoff system in 2014-2015, which will set a championship matchup based on what happens on the field — as opposed to bi­ased ballots and mysterious computers. But in the mean­time, be sure to enjoy one last go-round with the nationwide insanity that is the BcS. 
it’d be un-american not to. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu.
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SOCCER 

Stadium construction stalls 
Associated Press 

coSTado Sauipe, Brazil — at least three World cup stadi­ums in Brazil will not be fin­ished by the end of december as FiFa requested. 
Soccer’s governing body said Tuesday the stadiums in Sao paulo, curitiba and cuiaba are unable to meet the deadline because of con­struction delays. 
The announcement came after the World cup orga­nizing committee received updates from the six host cit­ies that still must turn over the venues for next year’s tournament. The other six were ready for this year’s confederations cup. 
“Two stadiums will be de­livered more in the region of February than in January or december,” FiFa Secretary general Jerome valcke said. “curitiba is the one where we are facing the most prob­lems. clearly, curitiba will not be delivered before the end of February 2014, so that’s a fact.” 
The stadium in cuiaba also is expected to be ready in February, four months before the World cup opens on June 12. FiFa said it still doesn’t know when it will have the venue in Sao paulo, where a crane collapse last week killed two workers and damaged part of the stadi­um. a report on the scale of the damage is expected by the end of the week. 
“We are in a period of time when the opening game of the World cup will be played in Sao paulo,” valcke said. “We are not in a crisis mood where we are looking for an alternative to Sao paulo. We are confident they can deliv­er the stadium on time (for the opener.)” 
The Sao paulo venue, which will host the open­ing match, was almost ready when a giant crane buckled while hoisting a 500-ton met­al structure that clipped part of the roof and cut through a huge lighting panel that runs across the venue’s outer facade. 
FiFa said it would not tolerate the same kinds of delays that plagued the confederations cup, when only two of the six venues were completed by the origi­nal deadline. 
The arena da Baixada in southern city of curitiba was only 85 percent completed by october, according to the latest numbers released by local organizers. The arena pantanal in the wetlands city of cuiaba was 90 per­cent completed in the end of november. There was also concern with the venue in the jungle city of manaus, which was 91 percent ready in november. 
The other cities that still need to deliver stadiums are natal in northeastern Brazil and porto alegre in the southern region, though work is more advanced there. The stadiums in Salvador, Fortaleza, Belo horizonte, recife, rio de Janeiro and Brasilia were ready for the confederations cup. 
valcke said FiFa is already rearranging plans for the installation of temporary facilities at the venues that also will not be delivered by the deadline. FiFa president Sepp Blatter downplayed the delays. 
“There are some small de­lays in construction of sta­dia, but so small that, with one exception, we can just close (the) case and say ev­erything will be ready,” Blatter said. 
FiFa wants the stadiums ready at least six months in advance mainly so there is time for at least two test events in each host city. it says there is no way of mov­ing games because about 1 million tickets have already been sold for next year’s tournament. 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
louisville secures easy win 
Associated Press 

louiSville, ky.  — Shoni Schimmel scored 14 points, Bria Smith added 12 and no. 7 louisville cruised to a 91-49 victory over missouri State on Tuesday night. 
asia Taylor added 10 points and seven rebounds for the cardinals (8-1), who played most of the game without senior guard antonita Slaughter af­ter she collapsed and was taken off the court on a stretcher early in the first half. 
louisville was leading 7-2 with 17:13 to play in the first half when Slaughter, who had started the game and scored the first basket, went to the bench and sud­denly collapsed. coach Jeff Walz and his staff rushed to her aid and emS was imme­diately called to the bench. 
Slaughter was trans­ported to the hospital by ambulance. a louisville spokesman said Slaughter was awake and alert and undergoing tests. 

“She’s coherent, she’s re­sponding to questions and talking with her family,” Walz said. “We’re not sure and they’re not sure what took place yet. i would say by tomorrow morning we should know more.” 
louisville used a 15-4 run that included three 3s from Schimmel to boost its lead to 24-8, and the cardinals continued to bolster their double-digit lead. 
kenzie Williams scored 13 points and Tyonna Snow added 12 to lead missouri State (1-5), which lost its fourth straight. 
Schimmel, who finished 4 for 10 on 3s, said the team was relieved to get good news about their teammate during the game and they hoped to visit her as soon as possible. 
“coach Walz told us at halftime that she was do­ing good, that she was con­scious,” Schimmel said. 
Smith added: “it’s tough to see anybody get carried off the court on a stretcher. definitely, to see antonita in that position is hard for all of us because we’re like sisters.” 
louisville — ranked 10th in the country at 48 percent shooting from the field 
— finished at 56 percent against the Bears, includ­ing 36 percent on 3s, and finished with 24 assists. 
The cardinals shot 61 percent in the first half. 
missouri State commit­ted 24 turnovers, compared to 12 for louisville. 
The cardinals rebounded from Sunday’s 69-64 loss to intrastate rival kentucky which dropped them from no. 4 to seventh in ap poll. 
against the Wildcats, the cardinals led by 14 in the first half but shot just 28 percent in the second half en route to their first loss of the season and their third straight against their top non-conference rival. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles face adrian in first conference matchup 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports Writer 
Saint mary’s kicks off con­ference play today when they take on adrian at 7:30 p.m.  
The Belles (2-4) face the Bulldogs (2-3) after a tough 77-71 loss to defiance on Saturday. Saint mary’s failed to capitalize on an early lead against the yellow Jackets and dropped its fourth game of the season. 
“right now, i think we are a little deflated after the loss against defiance,” Belles coach Jennifer henley said. “Fortunately, we have [had three] days to regroup and get ready for adrian.” 
The Belles allowed the yellow Jackets a 9-0 run late in the second half, and they have focused their prepara­tion for the game against the Bulldogs on the issue of allowing teams to score so many unanswered points. 
“We continue to empha­size team defense,” henley said. “We can’t get caught up in trading baskets during key stretches.” 
The Bulldogs also enter the game suffering a recent loss. adrian fell 64-49 to Siena heights on nov. 26. The Bulldogs were unable to recover after Siena heights had a 14-0 run in the first half. adrian is led by senior guard laQwana dockery and senior forward amy van gessel. dockery scored a game-high 17 points and van gessel grabbed 13 rebounds against Siena heights. 
The Belles are led by sophomore forward krista knapke and her career-high 24 points and 17 rebounds against defiance. 
despite the Belles’ four losses, they feel prepared to begin conference play, henley said. 
“We have to keep in mind that we needed to use our non-conference opponents as a way to prepare for miaa play,” henley said. 
The Belles look forward to facing adrian and have generated a specific strat­egy with the skills they de­veloped during the past few games. 
“adrian is a solid team who traditionally likes to run, so we need to continue to focus on our transition defense, controlling the boards and getting to the foul line,” henley said. 
The Belles take on the Bulldogs to open conference play Wednesday at merillat Sport and Fitness center in adrian, mich. at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 


NFL 

Seahawks make statement, Saints reevaluate 
Associated Press 
SeaTTle — russell Wilson was so impressed with the way Seattle prepared for its show­down against new orleans that he made a point of texting spot with their 34-7 manhan­coach pete carroll about it. dling of the Saints on monday 
That’s just how Wilson is night. wired and partly why the “That preparation was big,” Seahawks were the first team Wilson said. “i really think it in the nFl to clinch a playoff showed up tonight.” 
paid adverTiSemenT 


Seattle is the first team bound for the postseason. They need to go 2-2 in their final four games to wrap up home-field advantage and make the nFc playoffs go through Seattle. 
Wilson finished with 310 yards passing and attempted only three passes in the fourth quarter for 13 yards. his first three quarters were so good he could have become a spec­tator in the fourth. he threw touchdown passes of 2 yards to Zach miller and 4 yards to doug Baldwin in the first half as Seattle built a 27-7 lead. Wilson added a pinball 8-yard Td pass to derrick coleman in the third quarter. 
Wilson completed 22 of 30 passes and finished with a quarterback rating of 139.6. he is 14-0 at home and has 22 regular-season wins in his first two seasons, tied for the most ever by a second-year QB. 
“They definitely played the run well tonight, we didn’t run the ball as well as we’d like,” carroll said. “it allowed us to hit a bunch of other stuff.” 
new orleans (9-3) again failed to earn a signature road victory to prove it can win out­doors on the road late in the season. drew Brees finished 23 of 38 for 147 yards. Jimmy graham had three catches for 42 yards. darren Sproles led new orleans with seven catches, many of them on check downs. The seven points matched the fewest scored by the Saints since Sean payton became coach in 2006 and the 188 total yards were the fewest in his coaching tenure. 
The Saints were just as flustered by their defense and the inability to slow Wilson. 
“i don’t even know what to tell you. i don’t even know what happened out there,” Saints linebacker Junior galette said. “We better watch the films and see what we can adjust.” 
here are five things we learned from the Seahawks’ dominating win over the Saints: 
BaFFled BreeS: it’s rare to see Brees confused and unsure of where to go with his passes. But he was regularly double clutching his throws and be­ing forced to move around the pocket. Seattle used unusual coverages with its linebackers to try and make Brees hesi­tate with his timing, and the Seahawks pass rush was able to make him uncomfortable in the pocket. 
“They put it all together and they play very, very well to­gether within their scheme,” Brees said. “obviously, they play very well at home because they can thrive on that crowd noise and typically an of­fense’s inability to communi­cate as well in snap count and all those things. But listen, they deserve a lot of credit.” 
no drop oFF: all those concerns about Seattle be­ing without cornerbacks Brandon Browner and Walter Thurmond appeared un­founded. Byron maxwell and Jeremy lane both played well filing in for Browner and Thurmond. maxwell got the majority of the playing time on the outside, with lane coming in as the nickel cornerback. maxwell was credited with two passes defensed. 


W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
on penn State, senior forward ariel edwards, is averaging more than 10 points less than lucas. 
“lucas is one of the best players in the country,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “She’s probably the pre-sea­son player of the year in the Big Ten. She’s really the focal point of their team.” 
last season, lucas hit over 46 percent of her 3-point shots, finishing in the top five in the nation in this catego­ry. This season, the senior is shooting over 40 percent from behind the arc once again. 
“[lucas is] a great 3-point shooter and one of the best in the country,” mcgraw said. “She can really score fast. She’d good off the dribble and can score in a ton of different ways, but she is really an ex­ceptional 3-point shooter.” 
on top of her talent from behind the arc, lucas has hit 43 of her 44 free throws so far this year. 
“We don’t want to foul her,” mcgraw said. “i think this year, with the way they are calling the game, we have to try to work on not fouling as much. We definitely want to avoid fouling her.” 
To counter lucas, notre dame will have to utilize its own scorers. The irish have six players averaging over 10 points per game and are led by sophomore guard Jewell lloyd’s 17.2 points per game. as a team, notre dame ben­efits from its 20.8 rebounding margin average, the best in the nation. 
“i think this is the best re­bounding team i’ve ever had,” mcgraw said. “We just have so many players capable of get­ting a double-double on any given night. i’m really happy with the rebounding and i think it’s the reason we’re un­defeated to this point.” 
notre dame is also second in the nation is assists, aver­aging 23 assists per game. 
“i think we’re a team that shares the ball well,” mcgraw said. “We have a lot of great players who can score, but all of those great scorers are always looking for their teammates.” 
notre dame has continued to move the ball well, de­spite trying to replace former irish guard and all-american Skylar diggins. 
“i think [our assist num­bers] reflect our team chem­istry, especially when you realize it’s not just the point guard,” mcgraw said. “it’s in the post and it’s from the shooting guard. everybody is averaging a lot of assists. it’s a result of great team chemis­try and they really enjoy play­ing together.” 
For the irish, mcgraw said, the building of strong team chemistry begins with the re­cruiting process 
“i think we’ve been grow­ing each year,” mcgraw said. “When we do our recruiting, we want kids that are a good fit for our program and will fit in well with our offense and our players. chemistry is an chemistry and skills on the important part of recruiting glass when they travel to penn and we really take that into State today for their 7:30 p.m. account when we’re offering game against the lady lions. scholarships.” 


The irish will look to take Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at advantage of their team asantmil@nd.edu 
M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
notre dame lost despite a career-high 29 points from irish senior center garrick Sherman, the most by a notre dame player since 2011. 
“The game that garrick Sherman had, establish­ing himself, he needs to be a main guy,” Brey said. 
irish senior point guard eric atkins poured in 20 points and fellow senior guard Jerian grant added 13 points and 10 assists. Five hawkeyes scored in double figures, as iowa shot 56.9 percent from the field and connected on seven of 13 3-pointers. 
“We’ve got to be better de­fensively,” Brey said. “our transition defense really cost us probably the game. We just couldn’t get back enough to stop easy buckets.” 
iowa led 52-43 at the inter­mission after playing much of the first half at a break­neck pace, pushing it quickly in transition and scoring a flurry of fast buckets. The hawkeyes led by as many as 11 in the first period, despite Sherman’s best efforts. The big man poured in 18 first-half points on 7-for-10 shoot­ing to keep notre dame close. 
But iowa had its way throughout the opening stan­za and drilled 19 of its 33 field goals, good for a 57.6 percent clip. nine different hawkeyes scored in the first 20 minutes 
— though no player reached double figures — and junior center gabriel olaseni tallied nine points and five rebounds while junior forward aaron White added eight points. iowa’s 52 points were the most allowed by notre dame in the first half since 2003. 
Trailing by nine at the inter­mission, notre dame stormed out of the gates in the second half, quickly exploding on a 14-3 run to claim a 57-55 lead 
— its first since leading 9-7. atkins capped off the spurt with a difficult left-handed layup. 
But hawkeyes senior guard roy devyn marble — the team’s leading scorer — burst out for 13 consecutive points as iowa squad reclaimed the lead, 68-62. notre dame tied things at 71 when freshman guard demetrius Jackson buried a right-wing three. The hawkeyes, though, then ran off five straight points and never gave up the lead again. 
“i just loved our fearless­ness of — after taking big punches in a tough road at­mosphere — coming back and keeping game pressure on them,” Brey said. 
The irish return to purcell pavilion on Saturday to host delaware at 4 p.m. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

paid adverTiSemenT 


paid adverTiSemenT 



MEN’S SOCCER 

Panken excels academically, breaks out as player 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
Sports Writer 
evan panken knows how to work. Whether he’s in the class­room or on the field, the sopho­more midfielder has impressed irish coach Bobby clark with his energy and motivation. 
“he’s a hard worker,” clark said. “he has tremendous en­thusiasm, tremendous determi­nation. … he’s just a fantastic player to have on our team, but it’s really his work ethic, his en­thusiasm and determination. There is no one more determined than evan.” 
although no. 3 notre dame (14-1-6, 7-1-3 acc) doesn’t red-shirt players, panken did not play last year, so he technically qualifies as a freshman in terms of eligibility, clark said. panken stepped up in 2013 as a sopho­more to play 1,571 minutes and start all 21 games for the irish. 
“The position opened up when [junior midfielder] Brendan lesch tore his acl in our first exhibition game down at creighton,” clark said. “We had to find someone who was going to play in that wide midfield role. evan had done this in the spring and had done very well. … he works so hard. he just he com­pliments the other players in the midfield well.” 
clark said panken’s work ethic extends to his academic endeav­ors. as a freshman, panken was named a Big east academic all-Star. panken also received recog­nition from notre dame for his academic achievements when he was named to the dean’s list in the spring semester. First year students qualified with a mini­mum 3.688 gpa. 
panken said the combination of commitments to soccer and school have strengthened his work ethic. 
“i think that especially with coach clark, he emphasizes good work in the classroom,” panken said. “also i just think that hard work in soccer transfers over to commitment to education as well and just making sure you get everything done on time and do it right.” 
Balancing both commitments can be challenging, but the team makes the extra effort worth it, panken said. 
“i would describe it as similar to a family,” he said. “We’re all really tight, and my best friends are on the team. We spend a lot of time together. and then [it’s] just hard work and time-consuming. i mean we practice and then homework, so it’s a lot of time commitment, but i love it and wouldn’t trade it for the world.” 
panken has certainly contributed to the irish soccer family, according to clark. in ad­dition to four goals and one as­sist on the season, panken brings a generous attitude to the team. 
“evan is one of those young men who always wants to be helping,” clark said. “he has a very willing disposition. he works very hard and he’ll always help. if you ever need someone to lend a hand, he’s your guy.” 
panken said his teammates re­turn the favor whenever he lends a helping hand. 
“on the field, i just work hard for everyone,” panken said. “That’s what we all do. We all work for each other, and so i like to bring energy and help set the tone.” 
on Sunday, panken helped his team with two goals, includ­ing the game winner, in notre dame’s 4-2 victory over no. 14 Wake Forest in the round of 16 of the ncaa men’s Soccer championship. panken said he and the rest of the irish have to maintain their focus and team-oriented attitude moving for­ward in the tournament. 
“it’s tough,” panken said. “There’s a lot of distractions with school and then just seeing how everyone else has done, but, for us, everyone is really motivat­ed, and we play for each other, and we’ve had a motto all year: ‘execute the triangle,’ which ba­sically just means stay focused, do your job, and that’s what we’ve been aiming to do.” 
Beyond the tournament, panken has tremendous upside as a young midfielder, according to clark. 
“he’ll obviously pick up more leadership roles as he goes through school,” clark said. “i think that’ll just happen naturally. The kind of person he is, he’ll just want to improve. as a team, we want to get better each game, and it’s the same with each player. he’s a very focused young man. he’s a good student; he’s a very good student, and he works very hard. it’s everything he does.” 


Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

purdue searches for silver lining in lost season 
Associated Press 
indianapoliS — not even a bad season can deter darrell hazell. 
The purdue coach is stick­ing to his original plan. he believes his young quarterback need to get back to the postsea-but you also have to develop is bound for stardom, and he’s son and he’s intent on getting the players that are in your pro-confident those young receiv-more speed into the program gram,” he said after Saturday’s ers can emerge as playmakers. next season. 56-36 loss. “We’ll work the plan he insists his young defense will it’s time to find out if hazell and we’ll be a good football team emerge as the kind of reliable, has it all right. when it’s all said and done.” stout unit the Boilermakers “you have to get players in, The question is when. 

paid adverTiSemenT 


hazell doesn’t have a defini­tive answer yet after one of the worst seasons in school history. 
purdue went a whole month without a taking a red-zone snap, wound up losing its final 10 games, failed to score more than 24 points in any game un­til the season finale and did not beat a Bowl Subdivision team all season. it closed things out by turning over the old oaken Bucket to the dreaded hoosiers last weekend, and hazell & co. will be reminded of all those struggles next season when they try to avoid matching the school’s record skid — 11 straight losses from 1906-08 — in the august opener against Western michigan. 
hazell went through similar struggles at a moribund pro­gram at kent State before turn­ing things around in year 2, and he’s been studying how Jimmy Johnson in dallas and chuck noll with the Steelers and Barry alvarez at Wisconsin turned floundering programs into con­sistent winners. 
“They had a plan and they were going to stick to the plan,” hazell said. “They understood that things aren’t always ex­actly the way you want it when you first go into a situation. But you’ve got to get it to the point where you do want it.” 


The oBServer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2013 | ndSmcoBServer.com 

Bowl 
conTinued From page 16 
that would take a good, hard look at us.” 
Since the loss to pittsburgh on nov. 9, the BcS suits have disappeared from the notre dame press box, to be re­placed by a bevy of smaller bowls in search of a cash cow in what is certainly the larg­est of the at-large teams look­ing for a suitor. at Stanford, advocare v100 Bowl (former­ly known as the independence Bowl) representatives from Shreveport, la., were on hand with hopes of swaying the irish. other contending desti­nations include the pinstripe Bowl, the poinsettia Bowl, the little caesars pizza Bowl, the hawaii Bowl and the heart of dallas Bowl. 
after the loss to Stanford, a few notre dame players available to the media issued a preference, not of destina­tion but of locale. 
“definitely not somewhere where it’s snowing,” senior receiver TJ Jones said. 
others were less direct, yet still increasingly hopeful for some sunshine. 
“Wherever they send us re­ally,” senior tri-captain Zack martin said.  “like most peo­ple, don’t want to play in the snow. But if we play there, we’ll be happy for it.” 
The climate may be the big­gest deterrent of the pinstripe Bowl at yankee Stadium, con­sidered by many to be the fa­vorite for landing the irish. notre dame may also find itself at the very same bowl over the next few years with its acc tie-in. 
meanwhile, the little caesars pizza Bowl in detroit and the advocare v100 Bowl most likely don’t have the flair necessary to draw a con­sensus and the irish already played in dallas this season with the Shamrock Series. The hawaii Bowl is a dream loca­tion, as it was when the irish visited in 2008, but appears to be looming on the fringe with its dec. 24 date and a compli­cated travel schedule. 
The poinsettia Bowl in San diego on dec. 26 seems to be another one of the heavy favorites, with the pinstripe Bowl, and would be a welcome choice among the players for its weather and competition — Boise State and Fresno State are potential opponents. But the poinsettia has a backup tie-in with the mac, which has only four tie-ins throughout the bowl season with seven bowl-eligible teams. and al­though money may not be the biggest factor to the irish, the poinsettia Bowl has the sec-ond-lowest payout of all the bowls at $500,000 (compared to the pinstripe Bowl’s $1.8 million prize). 
But for some seniors, the destination isn’t nearly as im­portant as the chance to play one final game. 
“We just want to play. For us, we don’t have much decision about where we’re going,” se­nior quarterback Tommy rees said. “We just want to play an­other game.  We’ll get that op­portunity.  We’re just ready to compete.” 
meanwhile, Jones said the captains and veteran se­niors would meet with kelly on Thursday to discuss their options. kelly had previously mentioned he would heav­ily consider the input of the seniors, who will be the first irish class since 1995 to go to a bowl game for all four years. 
For martin, the bowl game represents a curtain call for a senior class that started in el paso, Texas, with stops in orlando, Fla., and miami along the way. 
“i mean, we want to go and win our last one,” the offen­sive lineman said. “We got one more game together. This team has worked too hard to not go out and play the right way our last game. We’ll go where they send us. But we like to go where it’s sunny out.” 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 


Martin 
conTinued From page 16 
coached defensive backs before moving to the other side of the ball following former offensive coordi­nator charley molnar’s departure to massachusetts. 
“(kelly) has always been the same on you’ve gotta make decisions in the best interests of your family and think it’s in the best interests of your career, even though we don’t have a crystal ball on where things can take you,” martin said to irish illustrated. “he understands mak­ing decisions in the best interests of your family is what it’s always about.” 
in a statement released by miami (ohio), athletics director david Sayler said martin was a good fit with the school. 
“When i laid out the criteria that miami was looking for in its next head football coach, it aligns per­fectly with chuck martin,” Sayler said. “coach martin comes on board with a plan that will succeed here at miami, while embracing the academic mission of this university at the same time, We are excited to welcome him and his family to oxford.” 
in the same statement, martin said he was excited to join the program. 
“i am excited to be joining the miami football family and want to thank david Sayler for this incred­ible opportunity,” martin said. “i look forward to getting back to the excellence miami stands for and am excited to hit the ground running.” 
according to cSn chicago, kelly said wide receivers coach mike denbrock would be the offensive coordinator for notre dame’s bowl game. The irish have yet to accept a bid to a bowl game. 
Golson to be readmitted soon 
in an interview with eSpn. com, kelly said suspended quar­terback everett golson should be readmitted to the university on dec. 13. 
“i’ve been assured that based upon all of the information that has been provided that he’s going to be re-admitted on dec. 13, and that information has been pro­vided to admissions and it’s just a matter of them sending out the admittance letter and then him being back on campus sometime around the 15th of december,” kelly said to eSpn.com. 
While golson would be eligible to practice with the irish before the bowl game, kelly said the short timeframe between his re­turn and the bowl game would likely prevent that. 
kelly also said golson would not be able to travel with the team to the bowl game. 
in leading an undefeated 2012 campaign, golson threw for 2,405 yards with 12 touchdowns and six interceptions. he added 298 yards and six scores on the ground. 
golson is expected to assume the starting quarterback posi­tion in the spring although kelly has said it would be a competi­tion with freshman quarterback malik Zaire. golson will have two seasons of eligibility remaining. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

paid adverTiSemenT 



CROSSWORD | Will ShorTZ 

ACROSS 33 Something that 64 Sanyo 1 Singer Lou makes stops on competitorthe ocean? 
65 Staff member? 37 Frozen drink 6 Latin 101 word 
10 Mystery writer 66 To have, to 
brand 

Henri ___ 39 Mythical hunter 67 Veg out 
John Dickson 

14 Bubbling over 41 “The Time 68 Poetic adverb Machine” race
15 ___ Ness 69 O. Henry Award 16 Double curve 42 Medicinal plant winner for “Livvie Is Back”
17 Competition for 44 ___ throat 3-year-olds 

46 Rock genre18 Together, DOWN
47 Pear varietymusically 1 Units of a49 “The Hitler

19 “The Lion King” dangerous
Diaries” and

lioness dosage
others 

20 Breastbones 2 Aid’s partner 
51 Subgroup

22 Resin in varnish 3 Sported54 Gator’s cousin
24 Prefix with 4 Some fall babies -batics 55 Strong spate 
5 Craft 25 Supplicate 56 Like many 6 1836 battle site
eighth graders
26 City in Ukraine 7 Certain ’60s or Texas 60 White House teens 29 Gourmand policy honcho 

8 Prefix with 30 Roy G. ___ 61 Out puncture 
31 Haughty 63 Grammy winner 9 Venue where response Ronstadt Toscanini conducted 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
10 Be green, in a way 
11 Marble material 
12 Archaeologist’sfind 
13 Get through to 
21 Heavens: Prefix 
23 Where BillyBudd went in “Billy Budd” 
25 Ulan ___, Mongolia 
26 Some wraps 
27 Backgammonneeds 


Edited by Will Shortz 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  
 15  
 16  
 
17  
 18  
 19  
 
20  21  22  23  
 
 
24  25  
 
26  27  28  29  
 
30  31  32  
 33  
 34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  
 
42  43  44  45  46  
 
47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  
 57  58  59  
60  
 61  62  
 63  
 
 
64  
 65  
 66  
 
 
67  
 68  
 69  
 
 

Puzzle by Alex Vratsanos  
28 Like certain odds,paradoxically 29 Verdi aria 32 Director Welles  40 Jacket style 43 Spanish liqueur 45 Old welfare measure  53 Rush hour speed 54 More coquettish 56 It may betempted  
34 QuizmasterTrebek 35 A portion of  48 ComposerStrauss 50 Not retired  57 Carbon compound 58 Do some paperwork  
36 Madre’s brothers  51 Kind of point  59 ___ a soul  
38 F flat equivalent  52 1944 battle site  62 Trial  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chriSTopher Brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


Level: 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 





Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia laST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: amanda Seyfried, 28; holly marie combs, 40; Brendan Fraser, 45; Julianne moore, 53. 
Happy Birthday: don’t pass up an opportunity to learn something or to make new acquaintances. The information you gather will help you reach your goals over the coming year. change is inevitable, and if you adapt to what you encounter along the way, you will end up benefiting from the developments that take place. procrastina­tion is not an option. your numbers are 2, 8, 17, 25, 32, 38, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): do what suits you. Take a leap of faith and head in a direc­tion that encourages you to learn about new people, places and skills. Step away from anyone putting pressure on you to do something that doesn’t feel right. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): interact with knowledgeable people with whom you share an interest, but don’t make a decision that might hold you hostage. check out your options as well as how you can cut corners to make a new project more feasible. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t waste any time when it comes to helping others or living up to your promises. a personal accomplishment will make you feel good about your future. networking or reconnecting with an acquaintance will make you reflect and move on. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you’ll pick up information easily. look for signals that can guide you to a better position. a personal relationship will need an adjustment if you want to move forward without baggage. an infatuation may lead you in the wrong direction. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): make adjustments that will help improve future dealings. at­tend a lecture or make minor self-improvements that will put you in a better position to negotiate what you want. enhance your chance to achieve success. a change will do you good. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): There will be a fine line between saying what’s on your mind and letting your emotions spill. concentrate on what you can change, not what you cannot. The people you feel most comfortable with are the ones to gravitate toward. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Share your thoughts and explore subjects and interests that can help you meet new people. you may want to make an impression, but don’t spend or overdo it in order to do so. Sticking to a budget and being responsible will be noticed 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): offer ideas and share your plans. you can make personal domestic alterations that will improve your living conditions. don’t be reluctant to do things differently. it’s your uniqueness that will garner attention. love is on the rise and will enhance your life. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): gravitate toward change and try something new. don’t let anyone stand between you and your professional goals. anger won’t pay off but outdoing someone who challenges you will. make an impression and show how passionate you are about what you do. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stand your ground. don’t feel you have to give in to someone who is making last-minute changes. proceed down the path you chose without giving in to what anyone else is doing. you will come out on top if you are tenacious. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): listen carefully and go about your business. don’t make trouble by arguing or trying to get others to do things your way. pick and choose what works best for you and follow through with your plans. don’t fold under pressure. 



PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): keep personal business at a distance. you cannot win an emotional battle, but you can get ahead where investments and professional jobs come into play. Focus on money, expanding your interests and upping your income and your reputation. 


Birthday Baby: you are gracious, charming and accommodating. you are courageous and fair. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
PIENT  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
TIUNY  

FEFRID ADENAG  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Answer: 




(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: WEAVE DRUNK NOTION ISLANDYesterday’s 
Answer: When they were up above Sydney, they were — DOWN UNDER 


12/4/12 

make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. Box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city State Zip 

FOOTBALL 
irish mull bowl options 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
editor-in-chief 
even with its close-but-no cigar loss to no. 8 Stanford on Saturday, it seems that notre dame’s bowl options have yet to change. 
“i don’t think [the loss alters postseason plans],” irish coach Brian kelly said on Saturday. “i couldn’t tell you for sure … But there’s going to be some oppor­tunities for us that we’ll just have to sit and evaluate and find out.” 
With one week left in the col­lege football season, the pot of bowl-eligible teams can still be stirred. But with no bowl tie-in as they had with the champs Sports Bowl for the 2011 season and one year away from the acc tie-ins, the irish have the opportunity to be a bit more picky than usual. 
“There’s a lot of schools that obviously still have an opportu­nity to take some of those spots that are there,” kelly said. “We’re in a unique situation this year. We’re appreciative of any bowl 
see BoWl PAGE 14 


martin to coach miami 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
irish offensive coordinator chuck martin accepted the head coaching position at miami (ohio) on Tuesday, ending a four-year run as a notre dame assistant coach. 
“Just a great opportunity from a head coaching standpoint,” martin said to irish illustrated. “great school, cradle of coaches, ara parseghian, Bo Schembechler, Woody hayes, there’s a lot that goes along with it.” 
martin served as a defensive coordinator under irish coach Brian kelly while at grand valley State and succeeded him as head coach when kelly left for central michigan. martin was the head coach of grand valley State for six seasons before rejoining kelly in South Bend. 
martin will become kelly’s second offensive coordinator to leave the program in the last three seasons. 
at notre dame, martin initially 
see marTin PAGE 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

nd falls in close match to iowa 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports editor 
The atmosphere was every­thing irish head coach mike Brey wanted in notre dame’s first away game: a difficult opponent in an equally chal­lenging road environment. 
The result, however, left notre dame looking for more as the irish fell 98-93 to no. 23 iowa at a sold-out and “Blacked-out” carver­hawkeye arena on Tuesday night in iowa city, iowa. 
“They’re disappointed they didn’t get it,” Brey said in a post-game interview with Watchnd. “But i just told them i said, ‘i love my team. i love the fearlessness. i love how we kept game pressure on them. and it’s something for us to kind of build on.’” 
iowa (8-1) cracked open an 11-9 lead despite five early turnovers in the first 3:56 of the game. The hawkeyes, however, did not commit an­other turnover during the first half. 
after the hawkeyes soared through a near-perfect first half, notre dame (5-2) re­sponded with a strong second stanza, knotting the game at 71 with 8:17 remaining in the contest. But from there, iowa never allowed the irish to lead again. 
notre dame got within three with 38 seconds remaining and did so again in the final second, but iowa packed so great an offensive punch that notre dame couldn’t counter defensively. iowa’s 98 points were the most allowed by the irish in regulation since nov. 2008, when north carolina scored 102. 
“it was going to be an of­fensive kind of game,” Brey said. “These are two good of­fensive teams that had a hard time guarding each other a lot of the night. They just were harder to guard than us for longer periods of time.” 
see m BBall PAGE 12 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish look to contain Lucas 

finalist, a Wade Trophy fi­nalist, and a member of the associated press all-america second team. lucas cur­rently leads the lady lions in scoring, averaging more than 22 points per game. The second-highest scorer 
see W BBall PAGE 12 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 

Just seven games into its season, no. 4 notre dame will face its third ranked op­ponent of the year when it travels to no. 10 penn State tonight. 
in the lady lions (5-1, 0-0 Big Ten), the irish (6-0, 0-0 acc) not only take on one of the best teams in the nation, but also face off against one of the most talented players in the country. 
penn State senior guard maggie lucas was the Big Ten player of the year last sea­son, a John r. Wooden award 






