The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 40 | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Fall break pilgrimages deepen faith 
Students sojourn to Canadian and Polish holy sites 
By NICOLE McALEE 
news writer 
while many notre dame stu­dents headed home for fall break, a few spent last week as pilgrims, visiting holy sites in canada and poland as part of pilgrimages or­ganized by the office of campus ministry. 
andrew polaniecki, director of campus ministry at holy cross college, and Fr. stephen lacroix led 27 notre dame students and six holy cross students on a pil­grimage to the oratory of saint Joseph in montreal, Quebec, where the tomb of saint andre Bessette, the first saint from the congregation of holy cross, is 
see pilgrimage PAGE 5 



SMC students serve Peruvian communities 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
saint mary’s campus ministry gave five students the opportuni­ty to travel to peru on a pilgrim­age over fall break. 
upon their arrival in piura, peru, the saint mary’s pilgrim­age group was greeted by staff from the santismo sacramento parish, assistant director of saint mary’s campus ministry regina wilson said. 
“[The students] talked about feeling nervous, about what to expect, but being welcomed by smiling faces and a big sign com­municated that there were peo­ple on that end happy to see 
see peru PAGE 5 




Coffee cart offers students sustenance in DeBartolo 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
as of this week, students with morning classes in deBartolo hall no longer need to get their coffee fix in another building and then rush across campus. 
a brand new au Bon pain cof­fee cart opened in the middle of deBartolo hall on monday. The coffee cart, located next to the 101 deBartolo auditorium in deBartolo hall, delivers on a campaign promise alex coccia and nancy Joyce made during their 2013 election bid. 
The stand, known as the “deBart coffee cart,” is open monday through Friday from 8 
a.m. to 3 p.m., and offers both hot beverages and pastries to students and staff on their way to and from deBartolo classes. 
student government part­nered with notre dame Food services to make the coffee cart a reality, student body presi­dent alex coccia said. coccia said he appreciates the support from Food services and other university departments. 
“Food services has done a tre­mendous job putting together the coffee cart to ensure that it runs smoothly,” coccia said. “we can­not thank them and John affleck graves’ entire office enough for their service to the students.” 
The manager of au Bon pain, christina ryan, said she was im­pressed with the success of the coffee cart so far. 
“[Tuesday] is only the second day that the cart has been open for business, and we have already doubled the number of students served. we served 171 yesterday, which was pretty amazing,” ryan said. “as expected, we have been going through a lot of coffee, six gallons after only a couple of hours today.” 

ryan also said students have voiced their appreciation and she hopes to add to the menu in the future to best serve students. 
“i’ve heard a lot of good feed­back from students,” ryan said. “we’re here for the students. 
see carT PAGE 5 


Latino poets end series on campus 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 
“latino/a poetry now,” a po­etry tour that has visited five universities over a span of two years, will conclude at notre dame with readings from four acclaimed latino poets. 
The poetry reading will take place today at 7:30 p.m. in the eck visitors center auditorium and will feature visiting poets Blas Falconer, raina J. león, maria melendez and John murillo. 
Jose limón, director of the institute of latino studies, said the poets’ visit would showcase a different facet of latino culture. 
“at a time when latinos are much in the news for largely so­ciological and political reasons, we should also remember them as makers of poetry, as will be wonderfully exemplified by this gathering of prime poetic talent,” limón said. 
Francisco aragón, director of letras latinas and curator of the series, said a goal of the series is not just to raise awareness of latino poetry, but also to show the variety of approaches and styles among latino poets. 
“one of the things i hoped to accomplish with this initiative was to demonstrate the aesthetic diversity of contemporary latino poetry,” aragón said. 
aragón said he edited “The wind shifts,” an anthology of modern latino poetry in 2009 and planned the tour “latino/a poetry now” to complement the anthology. he said he chose the 15 poets who participated in the series to demonstrate the diver­sity and experimentalism of new latino poetry. 
The four poets who will be featured in today’s event exem­plify this diversity, which is a reflection of the diversity within the overall latino community, aragón said. 
“i hope that what people will come away with is that the four poets that we’ll be presenting are very different,” aragón said. “i think one of the things they’ll notice as well [is that] each poet is very different in their own 
see poeTry PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 9 FooTBall PAGE 16 women’s BaskeTBall PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
What is the best Halloween costume you have ever worn? 

Katy Harris-Forkner 
freshman 
regina hall 
“a gigantic pumpkin.” 
David Lee 
senior 
Fisher hall 
“Full pumpkin suit.” 
Maria Mueller 
freshman mccandless hall 
“pebbles.” 


Tre Haskins 
senior morrissey manor 
“derrick rose.” 
Samantha Kerper 
freshman holy cross hall 
“Jesse pinkman of ‘Breaking Bad.’” 
Troy Suter 
senior off-campus 
“eminem.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. Box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



News Sports 

christian myers Brian hartnett Want your event included here? rebecca o’neil samantha Zuba abi hoverman kit loughran Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 
sara shoemake allie Tollaksen 

Photo Viewpoint Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
John ning Tabitha ricketts 

Lecture: “Irish Step Notre Dame Award Workshop: “Cheating Saturday Scholar Notre Dame Dancing as Cultural for International Lessons” Series Volleyball 
Corrections 

and Embodied Human Development Hesburgh Library Snite Museum of Art Joyce Center in the oct. 29 issue of The observer, Knowledge” and Solidarity 10 a.m.-11:30 a.m. 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 2 pm.-4 p.m. the article “clc considers campus 
Flanner Hall Hesburgh Center James M. Lang will Discussion about The Irish take on 
diversity” mistakingly stated that 

12 p.m.-1 p.m. 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. discuss his book the chapels of Notre Pittsburgh in the 
student government members met with 

Given by University of Recognizes honoree about learning from Dame. Purcell Pavilion. 
the office of student affairs to discuss 
Limerick’s Dr. Foley. Jacqueline Nonogratz. academic dishonesty. 
diversity on campus. The student government representatives actually 

Wellness Wednesday Zen Meditation Glee Club Fall Concert Black Image Rejoice! Mass 
met with the student affairs committee of the Board of the Trustees. The South Quad Coleman-Morse Center DeBartolo Center Washington Hall Coleman-Morse Center observer regrets this error. 5:30 p.m.-7 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 8 p.m.-9 p.m. Mock tailgate with snacks. Meets in meditation room. Family friendly show. Annual talent show. Mass and choir practice. 


nasa seeks help from notre dame physics professor 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
despite the government shut down, nasa’s search for inhab­itable planets beyond our solar system goes on, and one notre dame professor has been asked to directly lend his expertise to the effort. 
nasa has named notre dame assistant professor of physics Justin crepp as one of 11 kepler participating scientists, a role in which he will join the kepler mission’s search for extrasolar planets capable of supporting life. 
crepp will study the read­ings of the kepler spacecraft, which detects possible plane­tary bodies orbiting stars thou­sands of lights years away and flags them as kepler objects of interest (kois). 
crepp said kepler works by measuring the intensity of each stars’ light and detecting any changes. when a planet passes in front of a star, it creates a kind of “shadow” perceptible to the spacecraft. This process requires that kepler measure a large number of stars, he said. 
crepp said such planets can only be detected under specific and fortunate circumstances. 
“you have to be lucky in the sense that the planet has to be just at the right orientation that, relative to you, it’s blocking the star,” crepp said. “if it has a face-on orbit, then you’re never going to see it. so we figure out the geometry and the probabil­ity of a planet passing in front of a star, and it depends on the size of the planet and how far away it is, et cetera et cetera. kepler finds those fortuitous events, we make a list of [kepler objects of interest] kois, and then we study those kois individually.” 
each koi could be etiher a planet or a kind of “false posi­tive,” such as a binary system in which two stars revolve around each other, crepp said. 
crepp said his and notre dame’s access to the large Binocular Telescope in arizona, which has been used to look at some of the thousands of kois that kepler detects and identify them as planets, helped him in his application to be a kepler participating scientist. 
“my particular role is to do imaging follow-up of any stars that kepler seems to find as potentially interesting,” crepp said. 
in addition to working with the kepler mission, crepp said he is working on a proposal to develop an instrument that detects planets orbiting small stars that are nearer to earth 
— kepler can only detect those that are more than 1,000 light-years away. he said the new instrument would use the doppler method to measure the “wobble” of stars as the stars’ and planets’ gravitational fields affect one another. 
The ultimate goal of devel­oping such a device is to find nearby planets with the right characteristics, including a sufficiently developed atmo­sphere, to support extraterres­trial life, crepp said. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


Experts debate benefits of nuclear disarmament 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
news writer 
more than 60 years after they were used in world war ii, nu­clear weapons still play a cru­cial role in foreign policy and the issue of nuclear disarma­ment is increasingly becoming a topic of contention. 
last night in the andrews auditorium of geddes hall professors david cortwright and sebastian rosato faced off in a debate titled, “a nuclear exchange: does the world need the Bomb?” 
professor cortwright, direc­tor of policy studies at notre dame’s kroc institute for international peace studies and former executive director of the committee for a sane nuclear policy, argued in fa­vor of nuclear disarmament and professor rosato, associ­ate professor of political sci­ence and director of notre dame’s international security program, argued against nu­clear disarmament. 
in the debate, each professor had 10 minutes to defend their position, followed by a three-minute rebuttal from the other professor. after this debate the floor was opened to the audi­ence for questions. 
cortwright began his ar­gument by stating that dis­armament would eliminate the threat of nuclear war. he also said disarming increas­es a country’s international standing. 
“disarmament is good for security. Those who give up nuclear weapons increase their standing in the world,” cortwright said. 
disarmament lessens po­litical tensions, facilitates policy cooperation and dimin­ishes the risk of nuclear war, 
“Disarmament is the most sustainable form of peace.” 
David Cortwright 
director of policy studies 
Kroc Institute 
cortwright said. he said the concept of mutually assured destruction as a deterrence to war is invalid. 
“nuclear deterrence did not prevent war nor will it in the fu­ture,” cortwright said. 
The only completely guar­anteed option the world has to maintain peace is to disarm all nuclear weapons, cortwright said. 
“disarmament is the most sustainable form of peace,” cortwright said. 
This disarmament process would be long, but could be achieved by international coop­eration, arms agreements and strict inspections, cortwright said. a crucial step will be the 
u.s. agreeing to disarm. 
“however, the united states cannot support disarma­ment while holding nuclear weapons; it is like preaching prohibition from a bar stool,” cortwright said. 
rosato began his defense by declaring that nuclear weapons are instruments of peace. he said nuclear weapons provide security to the nations that possess them. 
“The core logic of nuclear weapons is security,” rosato said. 
The possession of nuclear weapons by all creates peace through deterrence, rosato said. a country will not at­tack another country if they are aware of the consequences that will result from that attack. Thus, no one will attack a coun­try with nuclear arms since the consequence would be mass destruction, rosato said. 
“you introduce nukes, you end wars,” rosato said. 
other topics touched on in the debate included the pos­sibility of accidental nuclear use, consequences of terror­istic organizations obtaining nuclear weapons and the real­istic chances of disarmament occurring in the world. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 

USC weekend deemed calm in spite of high attendance 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
notre dame’s oct. 19 matchup against usc under the lights brought season-high attendance for game day activities on cam­pus, director of game day opera­tions mike seamon said. 
“it was a great weekend for the university,” seamon said. “as an­ticipated, it was a very active few days and nights on campus. This game was consistent with the two previous night games, usc [in] 2011 and michigan [in] 2012, in terms of activity and excitement of campus.” 
That activity included more than 1,400 guests at the Friday Football luncheon, 4,765 guests in the Friday stadium tunnel tour and more than 10,000 fans at the pep rally, he said. an estimated total of more than 110,000 guests flooded campus that saturday. 
“it was great to see coach [Brian] kelly and the team welcome [for­mer] coach [lou] holtz and the 1988 national championship team at the pep rally Friday eve­ning,” seamon said. “having the two teams present underscored the significance of the nd-usc rivalry and how important the game is to our players and fans.” 
seamon said they saw a “no­ticeable uptick in activity” once the morning rain cleared, with significantly more vehicles and visitors to campus. 
phil Johnson, chief of police for ndsp, said his team made two ar­rests at the stadium on game day, both for public intoxication and disorderly conduct. he said post-game traffic proved to be a signifi­cant factor for police. 

“given the close score, fans stayed until the end of the game,” Johnson said. “and unlike after­noon games, when some fans remain on campus for mass, din­ner, tailgating or to enjoy sites on campus, following a night game everyone leaves campus at the same time. 
“area police agencies worked diligently to facilitate a safe traf­fic flow on area roadways. There were no reported traffic crashes,” he said. 
despite the traffic congestion, seamon said the post-game exit went relatively smoothly. 
“The post-game traffic was heavy,” he said. “everyone simply wanted to leave at once since it had been a long day. But thank­fully everyone left safe and sound and there were no major post-game incidents.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 



The oBserver | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Students contest suitable costume ideas 
By THERESA SIVER 
news writer 
The gender and women’s studies program at saint mary’s college and the gender studies program at notre dame came together monday to present “what does your halloween costume say about you?,” an event featuring monologues and skits designed to spark con­versations about the cultural insensitivity of many popular costumes. 
payton moore, a junior at saint mary’s, opened the night 
Poetry 
conTinued From page 1 
way, and yet they’re all under this banner of latino poetry. 
“one of the messages that we try to convey is that the latino community, the latino popula­tion is not a homogenous popula­tion, it’s a very diverse population including its art making and its poetry.” 
aragón said students often ex­perience poetry in a completely different way when they listen to a poet read rather than read the words silently to themselves. 
“oftentimes when i teach a class and i ask, ‘who here has been to a poetry reading?’, very few hands go up,” he said. “we think of theatre as sort of a form of literature in performance but we don’t often think of poetry as being literature in performance, and oftentimes students have come up to me and said that hearing the poet read his or her work out loud gives them insights that they didn’t have when they were encountering the work just on the page.” 
aragón said the four poets visited two courses in romance languages and latino studies yesterday and would visit his own “latino/a poetry now” class this morning. he said the po­ets would likely appreciate the chance to talk with students who have read their work. 
“my hope is that [the poets] will have an enriching time dia­loguing with students who have been reading their work,” he said. “They’re going to be encounter­ing people who have been read­ing and studying and writing about their work.” 
aragón said today’s poetry readings would be the culmi­nation of more than four years of planning and executing “latino/a poetry now.” 
“This particular initiative grew out of an event we did with the poetry society of america in los angeles in 2009,” he said. “we did what we called a ‘latino poets online’ roundtable discus­sion which we published on the website of the poetry society of america, and because that col­laboration went really well … my counterpart at the poetry society of america pitched the idea of doing some programs at universities.” 
The series kicked off at with a skit showing the preva­lence of culturally offensive costumes and the lack of real­ization that some costumes are inappropriate. 
“it’s like if i accidentally punched nikki in the face, and said ‘oh sorry, but come on you’re just being too sensitive. it isn’t like i meant to punch you in the face.’ Fact of the matter is i still punched her in the face causing harm which is foul,” moore said. 
she said she used this ex­ample to impress the point that just because there may be no malintent behind a costume, there can still be offense. 
angela Bird, a notre dame sophomore, followed moore’s skit with an anecdote in hopes of instilling a similar message. Bird recounted her experience with a “native americans and hoes” themed party and the ef­fect of her standing up against the politically incorrect theme. 
“i posted a picture of the ‘it’s not a costume, it’s a culture’ poster on the event wall. The picture was quickly taken down and i received a message from the hosts soon after,” Bird said. 
The hosts told Bird that no one was hurt by politically incor­rect theme parties and she was wasting her time by interfering because the party was ironic. 
“satire is supposed to move upwards and hit the powerful, not those who are already vul­nerable,” Bird said. 
Jamie wagman, associate professor of history and gen­der and women’s studies at saint mary’s, said she hopes this event would inspire more events centered around open discussion. 
“i see this as a starting point … we have many people com­mitted to keeping the conversa­tion alive, but we need students to get involved,” wagman said. 
abby palko, director of under­graduate studies in the gender studies program at notre dame, expressed similar hopes. 
“i want students to realize they have a voice and can be heard,” palko said. “we need to keep the dialogue going be­tween saint mary’s and notre dame women, especially.” 
Contact Theresa Siver at tsiver01@saintmarys.edu 

harvard university in 2012 and Before each stop, the poets also roundtable discussions is for the poetry society of america to toured to georgetown university, read each other’s works and par-them to actually become a book bring the event to campus, ac­macalester college and the ticipated in an online discussion. with poetry samplings from each cording to a university press university of arizona. poets visit-aragón said he posts the tran-poet,” he said. release. ing those schools visited classes scripts online and hopes to com-letras latinas, the literary and met with latino student pile them into a book. program of the institute for Contact Lesley Stevenson at groups, aragón said. “our long term goal for those latino studies, partnered with lsteven1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



Cart 
conTinued From page 1 
maybe next fall we’ll be able to of­fer more.” 
coccia said the “deBart cart” is the result of a simple idea but has the potential to help a lot of people. 
“in our 2013 campaign, we prom­ised to get hot caffeine in deBartolo hall,” coccia said. “we proposed something simple but that would serve the needs of students who have multiple classes a day in deBartolo and are stressed for time between them.” 
student body vice president nancy Joyce said any future changes or expansion of the coffee cart would be based on the student response. 
“This semester’s coffee cart is a pilot, which will be adjusted at the end of the semester to better suit the needs of students,” Joyce said. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 
signs, advertisements, menus 
Pilgrimage 
and passing conversations were 
conTinued From page 1 
located. 
“i think students get a close and personal encounter with a special man, saint andre Bessette,” polaniecki said. “no one who goes on this trip leaves without somehow being person­ally touched by this poor, hum­ble, obedient servant of god.” 
The pilgrims also visited the newman center community at the university of Toronto, the burial place of saint kateri Tekakwitha at st. Francis Xavier church in kahnawake, Quebec, and other historic churches in montreal and niagara Falls. 
senior Jeremy vercillo said he was surprised by the culture of French canada. 
“[montreal] was very unlike any american city i had been to,” he said. “even though its popula­tion is bilingual, all of the street 
paid adverTisemenT 

in French. people did not address you in english unless they knew you were visitors.” 
Freshman Jim corcoran said he enjoyed the opportunity to grow spiritually and meet other students during the pilgrimage. 
“Between the beautiful churches and the wonderful people who also went on this pil­grimage, this journey is going to be one that i remember for a long time, and one that will continue to bear fruit weeks, months, and even years after,” corcoran said. “i was the only person from old college who went this year, and i felt that as a result, i really had to branch out and meet new people. what a blessing.” 
John paul lichon, assistant director for retreats, pilgrimages and spirituality at the office of campus ministry, led 23 notre dame students and one saint 
Peru 
conTinued From page 1 
us arrive,” wilson said. “it was an important gesture of hospitali­ty and helped put everyone a little more at ease. 
sophomore ambar varela said the people they met helped her and the other students feel at ease. 
“no matter what their situation was all the peruvian people i met were welcoming and excited to meet our group,” varela said. 
The group built a bamboo house for a peruvian family from the santismo sacramento parish, wilson said. They were helped by several men from the parish and completed the project in one morning. 
Junior kristen millar said she felt the saint mary’s group de­veloped a solidarity with the peruvian people. 
“we had the opportunity to in­teract with peruvian workers and we were able to meet the family whose home we were building,” 

paid adverTisemenT 
mary’s college student on a weeklong pilgrimage through poland, the home country of pope John paul ii. 
“Because i share a name with our beloved Blessed John paul ii, i have always had a special con­nection with him, and i wanted to introduce students to his life and witness in faith,” lichon said. 
The journey took students to several sites of importance to the life of John paul ii, including his birthplace of wadowice, wawel cathedral and pilgrimage sites that John paul ii visited dur­ing his life, including kalwaria Zebryzdowska, our lady of czestochowa and the sanctuary of divine mercy. 
senior Tony oleck said he was surprised by both polish cul­ture and the importance of the catholic church in poland. 
“i was actually somewhat sur­prised at how rich the culture and 
millar said. 
wilson said working together as a group and working side-by­side with peruvians was a re­warding experience. 
“we were sharing our gifts with in concert with other peruvians who were serving too in a situa­tion of need and we were provid­ing someone with something that she needed. and we were working together as a group of pilgrims helping one another accomplish the work,” wilson said. 
Fr. Joe uhen, a 1980 notre dame graduate, is the pastor at the parish, millar said. she said she was struck by one of his hom­ilies during the week. 
“in one of the homilies at mass [Fr. Joe] said, ‘because we have been given much, we have much to give,’” millar said. “here at saint mary’s i may not physically see the poor as i did in peru, but it is important to continue to edu­cate myself on the realities of the world and to be conscious of what i can do for others.” 
wilson said that the people history of poland is. i wasn’t quite sure what to expect, but when we landed i was quickly confronted with a very rich culture,” oleck said. “i was also surprised at the vibrance of the catholic church in poland. i guess i expected people there to be excited about John paul ii’s canonization this spring and everything, but this was something else.” 
senior marissa Bulso decided to go on the pilgrimage to grow closer to John paul ii and said her experience is “still beyond words.” 
“i can tell you that it involved a great deal of prayer, a good deal of walking, and no small amount of group bonding,” Bulso said. “as i drew deeper into my own spiritu­al life, i also grew outward, learn­ing from those around me and embracing my fellow pilgrims.” 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 
they encountered were extreme­ly poor, but it didn’t affect their faith. 
“we were surrounded by prayer, simple prayer, but it was just part of life there, everywhere we went,” she said. 
The group also visited the sisters of the holy cross in an archdiocese of lima, peru, wilson said. The sisters are cur­rently serving in an area that has traditionally had little to no pas­toral care due to their mountain­ous location. 
millar said the work of the holy cross sisters and their joy in per­forming it was inspirational. 
“The holy cross sisters were truly inspiring people devoted to caring for the peruvian people,” millar said. “There was an im­mense amount of joy everyone we met had in their work and ser­vice to the poor.” 
The students experienced christ in the people they met, wilson said. 
“i think most of all the students were impressed and moved by the warmth of everyone we met: the people, the pastoral staff at the parish, the sisters, ”wilson said. “The warmth of everyone from the poorest to the least poor person helped us make the jour­ney with confidence because that hospitality was christ meeting us in a very real way.” 
millar and varela both said that the pilgrimage was very hum­bling. varela said now that she has returned she has a greater appreciation for her situation and wants to enrich her own community. 
“This trip had made me more conscious and appreciative of what i have here in the u.s.,” valera said. “i hope to share my experience with saint mary’s students and others in hopes to raise awareness of what strug­gle people live with around the world. The pilgrimage has taught me that community is an impor­tant aspect for happiness and i want to take part in the joy of the community.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 
homophobic media spree 

Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 
it’s been a big couple of weeks for homophobia, apparently. 
Two weeks ago, self-proclaimed rap god eminem’s recent pseudo-epon­ymous single, “rap god,” came out, including lines calling other rappers “gay” and “f*gs.” Friday, “ender’s game” will open in theaters nationwide, a sci­ence fiction film based on a 1985 novel written and produced by orson scott card, a loud and proud hater of all things homosexual. 
as a devoted fan of both eminem’s music and card’s novel since i first encountered the two in elemen­tary school, but also as someone who doesn’t much care for homophobia, i find myself conflicted on how i’m sup­posed to react to eminem’s new song or the $110 million motion picture hitting theaters this weekend, for which card received a producer’s credit. 
eminem has gone out of his way in the past to try and demonstrate he’s not homophobic, despite what his lyrics over the years may imply. he famously performed his critically-acclaimed “stan” at the 2001 grammy’s with legendary performer elton John. he sat down with anderson cooper in 2010 to discuss his lyrics, saying, “i don’t have any problem with nobody, you know what i mean.” as a person, marshall mathers seems truly not to be a homophobe. 
But the song is most definitely homo­phobic, and in a way i wouldn’t think possible in today’s world. and as much as i like eminem’s music, maybe if i turn my back on the song it might help stop future artists from resorting to homophobia for material. 
at the same time, though, if i did buy the song, it’s not like i’d be support­ing an actual living, breathing, hateful slimebag, as would be the case for buy­ing a ticket to see “ender’s game.” in the novel though, there’s no mention of card’s warped ideas on sexual orienta­tion or any underlying themes of sexual hatred whatsoever. it’s just a great story. 
i’m not sure if i can watch the movie without feeling like i’m putting money in card’s pocket. But if we boycotted ev­ery piece of dirt that was art because of the artist’s actions and beliefs, i imag­ine this world would see a lot less art. 
ultimately, i’m just not sure a sym­bolic and likely futile boycott of these artistic works is the best answer; it’s not a wrong answer, and if you feel moved to do it, i support you. maybe a better answer, though, is to simply continue to turn up our noses at homophobia and work to create a more tolerant and sup­portive environment in our own lives, where our efforts will almost definitely have more effect. 
Lisa Taylor 
viewpoint columnist 
during one candlelit mass at pasquerilla east, Fr. Tom doyle sud­denly pulled out his ipad during the homily. with excitement in his eyes, he told us group of gathered girls, “you have to see this youTube video!” 
he pulled up the video clip “yosemitebear mountain double rainbow 1-8-10.” The video is taped by a man sitting on top of a moun­tain, gazing out over beautiful trees and skies to a gorgeous double rainbow. For a full three-and-a-half minutes, the narrator’s excitement cannot be contained as he cries, “whoa that’s a full rainbow! double rainbow! it’s a double rainbow all the way! it’s so intense! whoa! whoa, oh my god, oh my god! oh my god! oh, oh, wow! woo! yeah! oh, look at that! double rainbow 
— all the way across the sky! it’s so bright and vivid! it’s so beautiful!” it is the incarnation of pure, unadul­terated excitement, fresh and inno­cent joy. 
Fr. Tom laughed alongside all of us as we watched the video, infected by the contagious exhilaration and joy of the narrator. The video ended, and we sat in silence for a moment. Then, for a few minutes, Fr. Tom spoke about brilliance of the man’s wonder and how, in this beautiful world given to us by god, we are called to respond to him. if only our excitement for god could reach our excitement for double rainbows! 
lately, i’ve struggled with my own faith. i’ve struggled to muster up ex­citement, to really participate in the mass and to reflect deeply upon the eucharist. i find myself forgetting to pray, zoning out often and failing to look for god’s living presence. i’m wrapped up in my studies, which focus on violence, trauma, injus­tice and unequal power relations, making it difficult for me to look upon the face of the crucifix with joy when all i see is overwhelming suffering. like any other senior, i’m anxious about the future and often feel as if time is slipping away too quickly. 
This week over fall break, i was lucky enough to go for a second time to washington, d.c., with the sustainable development seminar of the center for social concerns. Beside all of our meetings with gov­ernment officials, policymakers, lobbyists and non-governmental organizations, there were a few spe­cial moments during that trip which rekindled tiny flames of wonder in my heart. 
one day, we stopped by the Basilica of the national shrine of the immaculate conception — the biggest roman catholic church in the united states. while wander­ing quietly through its vast, ornate chambers, i was struck by the poi­gnant engraved quotes: “see if any of you have suffered as i have,” “in these days i will pour out my spirit upon all mankind,” “mary, console the children of a land sprinkled with blood and tears,” “may the peace of christ hold sway in your hearts.” 

dwarfed by this gigantic and beautiful church, elaborately built to catalyze wonder at the face of god, i wanted to pray. i wanted to reflect and really pray for the first time in weeks. 
i had flashbacks of other peace­ful, awe-inducing moments in my life: trekking through patagonia and seeing my first avalanche crash­ing and tumbling in the distance, feeling sharp sandstone upon my hands and hearing quiet shoes tap­ping while climbing in the red river gorge in kentucky, galloping on a horse in the desert of northern chile and feeling vividly alive, lay­ing on the grass next to st. Joseph’s lake and staring at the vast blue sky and watching a tiny green cater­pillar wiggle across a tree branch. and these are just a few examples from the incredibly privileged and blessed life i live. 
imagine if every person shared their big and small moments of won­der. imagine if we put them into an archive of memories, continually growing and expanding, catalogu­ing our joys, experiences of excite­ment and double rainbows. how could we ever be unhappy? so take five minutes for yourself, show a friend the double rainbow video, share a happy moment and spread a bit of wonder. 
Lisa Taylor is a senior studying political science. She can be reached at ltaylo13@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Contact Kevin Noonan  at knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Respect life, again 
Fr. Kevin Nadolski 
Faith matters 
as we approach the close of october, we mark another year where we catholics have attended more closely to the call for all people to value life, from its earli­est moments until its natural ends. while pope Francis has caught some negative feedback from parts of the church for not emphasizing key life issues as much as some would prefer, he could not be clearer in his support. “every baby who is not born, but is unjustly condemned to be aborted, has the face of Jesus christ,” he said last month to a group of gynecologists. 
The pope has also amplified this theme, with urgent emphasis, in his call to respect the aged in our world. “The most serious of the evils that afflict the world these days are youth unemployment and the lone­liness of the old. The old need care and companionship,” he said in his now-famous interview published in Jesuit publications throughout the world. Further, he has encouraged his flock to visit retired and infirm religious and priests, calling them “sanctuaries of holiness.” 
certainly, our american culture values youth and beauty and en­ergy. and, its emphasis on produc­tivity could tempt us to identify ourselves and personal value with what we do, how much we accom­plish or the wealth we earn. For old­er people, youth has passed, beauty may not be so obvious and income sources are static. nevertheless, their human dignity and respect­ability remain honorable beyond measure.  
To help mark the respect life month and a dimension of its mul­tivalence, the parish where i regu­larly celebrate mass in delaware invited its homebound and ill parishioners to one sunday mass where we prayed for them, anoint­ing them in the sacrament of the sick. 
it was a powerful experience for all, especially the young grand­children of older parishioners. The youth appreciated the opportunity to “make a fuss” over their grand­parents in church, “because they think that church is so important,” as one child said. indeed, the older worshippers reveled in having their families bring them to church, wearing their sunday best with their hairdos to top off the care they put into their preparation. one octo­genarian confessed she didn’t even feel sick that day because she got so dressed up. 
neither this transgenerational experience of prayer at church nor the celebration of this sacrament at mass is novel. however, it did mark a moment for us worshippers to re­alize respecting life is beyond any sort of political or ideological issue, or something to vote for or debate. more importantly, respecting life includes praying together, caring for one another, letting ourselves be cared for, being honest about vul­nerability and trusting support will be available when needed — all as a community of faith. 
as we have seemingly privatized life issues — from abortion to elder­care and the numerous other rele­vant issues, i wonder whether we, at times, forget about the community’s responsibility to assert itself as a primary actor in helping to bring life to full term and to care for the dying and those on death row — and to provide resources and support for those who love these people in need. 

we are born into a world and baptized into a network of relation­ships. while we must never forget this, we must also celebrate it. not just at one mass or during one month in the year, but every day when we reach beyond ourselves to care for others in need: no matter who they are or where their lives are found — in the womb, prison cell, hospital bed or at our nation’s borders. 
yes, each life is sacred, and so is the community who respects it. 
Fr. Kevin Nadolski, a priest with the Oblates of St. Francis de Sales, works for his community as director of development and communications. He has served the church as a Catholic high school teacher, campus minister and principal, as well as vocation and formation director for the Oblates. He lives with his community in Wilmington, Del., and can be reached at knadolski@oblates.org 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
seven ways to lower costs 
Adam Newman 
scientia potentia est 
in my last article, i discussed the cost of american colleges and why they are overpriced. Below are some ideas specific to notre dame that could be used to lower costs with­out harming the quality of a notre dame education. 
1. Change food services 
Few realize how expensive notre dame dining hall food is since stu­dents are shielded from viewing the cost every time they eat. according to notre dame’s website, a purchase of 120 meals costs $11.38 per meal. This is outrageous, especially since most students do not eat this much food. The buffet style layout leads to high costs since all the food is “free.” in order to better conserve resources, notre dame should serve food using an a-la carte method. This would allow students to pay for what they buy and realize the full cost of their eating habits. 
2. Eliminate some majors and minors 
while providing a broad array of majors and minors is important for any college, notre dame can af­ford to merge and eliminate some of them. is american studies so vastly different from political science, or africana studies from sociology, that they need to be different programs? 
as for minors, the vast array of mi­nors offered (arts and letters offers 39 alone) makes little sense if a col­lege is looking to lower costs. 
3. Textbooks 
The way textbooks are bought and sold through the nd bookstore is modern day usury. For example, i bought a new spanish textbook last year for over $200. however, i could not sell back my book at the end of the semester because i opened the online bar code that i needed to complete homework. This is just one example of textbook horror. 
another is the practice of forcing students to buy new editions of text­books when the only change from a previous edition is the cover and practice problems. rather, notre dame should loan students the most expensive textbooks for the year like high schools do. 
4. Stop building 
colleges love to build new build­ings — many of which are not even related to academics. For example, the compton ice arena cost $50 mil­lion to build. while donations may have been secured to build it, this is money that could have been used to lower student tuition. usually a large part of the construction costs are covered by donations, but the operating costs are most likely par­tially borne by the university. 
5. End administrative bloat 
one of the major increases in costs is due to an increase in ad­ministrative staff, or people who do not teach students. 
nationally, the number of ad­ministrators increased from 60 percent from 1993, or 10 times the rate of growth of the tenured fac­ulty, according to u.s. education department data. notre dame needs to examine non-faculty and analyze whether administrative positions can be eliminated. 
6. Online courses 
This would probably be one of the most meaningful changes notre dame could make — to shift par­tially away from classes taught by professors in person toward those taught online. 
many colleges, including notre dame, are experimenting with of­fering classes that include online lectures from the best professors across the country. which provides more value — taking a real class from a wharton accounting profes­sor for free, or taking a class from a notre dame professor for $5,000? 
7. Change the culture away from “more, more, more” 
The current culture of college is geared towards “more” — whether it is hiring more administrators, building more buildings, etc. These decisions are largely made in a bubble since they do not mir­ror the economic realities of slow growth and wage stagnation. This mentality has led to the system­atic (and unnecessary) transfer of wealth from families and the gov­ernment to higher education. 

rather, notre dame should tie its cost increases to inflation plus one percent or gdp plus one percent. This would force its cost increases to better reflect current economic conditions and lead to a concerted effort to provide greater value. 
one of the things i love most about notre dame is its moral com­mitment to the common good, whether it be “expecting more of business” or “educating the mind and the heart.” But with the cost of a notre dame education over $60,000 and quickly rising, notre dame has a moral imperative to lower costs. 
The good news is there are many solutions that can lower costs with­out hurting the overall quality of a notre dame education. The bad news is changes will be opposed by almost every college stakeholder. regardless, it is time for notre dame to start acting like the “fam­ily” it claims to be and less like the bloated business it actually is. 
Adam Newman is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By GABRIELA LESKUR 
scene writer 
i’m here to set the record straight about The head and the heart’s new album, “let’s Be still.” when i saw that rolling stone had given miley cyrus’ new album “Bangerz” a higher rating than “let’s Be still,” i figured that the public deserved a better assessment. 
a band of nomads, band members traveling from virginia and california, The head and The heart was brought together by luck and perhaps divine providence. in producing their second album, the band finally had the opportunity to make music together in a traditional studio environment — with varying results. 
For the most part, the album is spot on, delivering a solid array of new songs while staying true to their musi­cal roots. “let’s Be still” will quench old fans’ thirst for the band’s fresh folk rock feel while securing new fans with an expansion of the band’s identity as portrayed on their first album. 
“let’s Be still” takes on a mellower feel than the debut album. originally i felt that many of the songs seemed to hover close to a breakthrough moment, but failed to sur­pass the threshold into true greatness. i will admit that, at first, i was disappointed. i found myself in search of a riff or vocal surprise that never came. But as i listened again to the album, i found that when i put aside my expecta­tions, i was ultimately satisfied. old fans just have to go into the album with full knowledge that “let’s Be still” does not utilize the exact same formula for song-making as the first album: “let’s Be still” is truly an expansion 

and evolution of the band.  roads” from their first album, charity’s solos are perfec­ 
while the album doesn’t offer many true thrills, except  tion and honestly make the songs. But part of Thielen’s  
perhaps in the popular hit “shake,” most songs achieve  charm is her ability to contrast with the male voices in  
head-bopping status with a fine mix of instrumental  the group, especially lead vocalists Josiah Johnson and  
solos, impressive vocal talent, and thought-provoking  Jonathan russell. without the foil of Johnson and russell  
lyrics.  in songs like “summertime,” the eerily angelic-yet-rough  
echoing the energetic spirit of their first album, “my  voice of Thielen becomes all too mortal.  
Friends” utilizes the stand-by format of a cheery piano  The band’s lyrics maintain underlying continuity  
accompanying fantastic harmonies, akin to the song  throughout the album. From the sadly orchestrated  
“ghosts” on their first album. This lively tune may  message of hope in “Josh mcBride” to the heart breaking  
cause one to dance around their room in an inspired  longing for emotion in “Fire/Fear” to the honest reflec­ 
bout of procrastination, which is always welcomed and  tion on leaving family for success in “10,000 weight in  
appreciated.  gold,” this new album possesses a diverse array of emo­ 
“another story” starts out with a piano ditty that calls  tional masterpieces.  
up an image of a joyful little kid walking home from  while the second album isn’t what i expected, it’s hard  
school, staring intently downwards so as not to step on  to deny that The head and The heart have made musi­ 
the sidewalk cracks. Then the song welcomes in light  cal magic yet again. and yes, rolling stone, “let’s Be still”  
guitar, bass, and a sassy little shaker. The mood bright- trumps miley cyrus’s “Bangerz.”  
ens even more as all the instruments mix perfectly with  
the chorus-like sound. as the song comes into it’s own,  Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu  
the drums slowly add emotion to the soulful lyrics until  
the moment where a lone voice is heard—bringing out  “Let’s Be Still”  
the vulnerability prevalent in the lyrics, “i see a world, a  
world turning in on itself. are we just like hungry wolves  The Head and the Heart  
howling in the night?”  
new in this album are songs that feature only the vocal  Label: Sub Pop  
talent of charity rose Thielen, who usually sticks to play- Tracks: “My Friends,” “Shake”  
ing the violin, adding to harmonies, and performing short  If you like: The Lumineers, Mumford and Sons  
breakthrough solos within larger songs. “springtime”  
and “summertime” put Thielen in the spotlight and the  
attention isn’t always great. in songs like “rivers and  


By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 
in opening a film with a prank of an 86-year-old man getting his genitalia stuck in a vending machine, the filmmakers behind “Bad grandpa” accomplish a few im­portant and necessary tasks immediately. 
First of all, as should be expected from a movie in any way associated with the Jackass franchise, the audience should prepare themselves for a good amount of inap­propriate, borderline disgusting humor. 
secondly, the film will draw as much juice as possible out of the reactions of regular folk to Johnny knoxville’s old man antics in his disguise as irving Zisman, an aging, horny, boozing and all around hilarious octogenarian. 
Thirdly, and most importantly, if you find old people doing funny things and Jackass’s trademark penchant for the raunchy, you will find this film hilarious. 
i, for one, thought it was hilarious. Though the film’s narrow focus on Zisman prevents from being on the same level as the best of the Jackass films by the sheer fact that “Bad grandpa” couldn’t have featured irving Zisman on a see-saw desperately trying to avoid a raging bull or some of the other kinds of pranks that made those Jackass films memorable. 
But knoxville and long time Jackass director Jeff Tremaine know that this movie is different, and they 

don’t pretend like it is. instead, they introduce a storyline,  hollywood tradition of films throwing up sweet, irrev­ 
the first of any Jackass film to do so.  erent middle fingers to the eccentricities involved in the  
Zisman must take his grandson, Billy, across country,  contests.  
from nebraska to north carolina, to his deadbeat absent  when Billy finishes his performance, which anyone  
father after the boy’s mother goes back to jail for drugs.  who’s seen the trailer can tell you involves a stripper pole  
Jackson nicoll as Billy is perfectly cast across knoxville’s  and the song “cherry pie,” and he and his grandfather  
Zisman; the chubby, innocent looking Billy is able to  share a fishing trip in which they try to avoid the body of  
smile and cute his way into any number of hilarious con­ Zisman’s dead wife, which they’ve thrown in the water,  
versations with real adults (especially women), which  the film accomplishes a combination of familial bond- 
Zisman almost inevitably crashes and ruins.  ing and sweetness with irreverence and raunchiness that  
There’s an odd sweetness to the relationship between  few have ever achieved.  
Zisman and Billy that grounds the film and prevents it  it’s not a perfect film through and through, but the high  
from devolving into a bunch of gross out pranks with an  points are high enough and the public reactions memo- 
old man and a little kid (which, essentially, is what it is).  rable enough to make this yet another solid entry in the  
But by juxtaposing Zisman drunkenly making mar- Jackass franchise.  
garitas and drinking ink and playing bingo with Billy  
approaching men on the street and asking them if they  Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu  
will be his dad, and then insisting that they are in fact his  
real dad, the film establishes an underlying sadness in  “Jackass Presents: Bad Grandpa”  
the situation. That’s not to say that this is a deep film; it’s  
not. But there’s a realness to it that carries the continued  MTV Films  
pranks on the public and creates a curiously sweet payoff  Director: Jeff Tremaine  
in its conclusion.  
as “little miss sunshine” showed, there are few more  Starring: Johnny Knoxville, Jackson Nicoll, Greg Harris  
hilariously satisfying sequences than screwing with  
young children’s beauty pageants, and “Bad grandpa”  
 
honorably picks up that mantle and continues the  

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 




By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 
For my application to notre dame two years ago, one of the essays i wrote — answering the infamous “you have 150 words. Take a risk” prompt — was on my ha­tred of plastic bags.  no, i was not a tree-hugging activist who worried that their overuse and overproduction was destroying the environment. i was merely an annoyed son in a family with a mother who made it impossible to escape the all-encompassing utility that plastic bags offer. although, in my defense, i do believe my convic­tions hold just as much weight as the former’s. Through my 18 years of living in my house, i grew to hate nothing as much as plastic bags. 
and now, i’m sharing this personal essay with you to give context, so appreciate it, cause reading over it again two years later i think it’s trash — but i did use it to get into this university, so there. my essay read: 
“i hate any and all plastic bags and not simply because of the environmental impact. my mom’s overuse of grocery bags, storage bags accompanied by twist-ties and Ziploc sandwich and snack sized bags haunts me. stemming from her mother’s similar obsession with keeping food fresh — she does not trust grocery stores’ packaging of cold cuts — i am afraid that it runs in the family.  my mom’s sister even individually bundles her garbage and recycling in grocery store bags to keep it clean and sanitary for disposal! 
“i feel as though i can never escape plastic bags. when i search through my pantry, the rustling of bags penetrates my ears sharper than nails on a chalkboard. if i find a box of cookies i am interested in, i might avoid them because of the daunting task of opening and then refastening the plastic bags that accompanies eating them. college cannot come too soon so i can flee this obsession with plastic bags. hopefully, like predicting hair loss, i get the likeliness to use plastic bags from my mother’s father; he still has a full head of hair and realizes the insanity of the women in the family.” 
in hindsight, i may have been a bit extreme, yet i had a purpose in my writing, a strong opinion i needed to air on the overlooked subject of plastic bags. getting to school though, as my mom sneakily packed away scores of various plastic bags, from single-zip sandwich to medium-sized trash, they slowly permeated my habits last year: this unfinished bag of salt and vinegar chips will go bad; i can’t afford that, better roll it up and stick it in a plastic bag. on rare occasions when i don’t eat the full $10 in weight of gummy bears i buy in one sitting, i calculatingly put that paper bag away in another bag to make sure they don’t harden. i even sometimes save plastic grocery bags i get from shopping to use for gar­bage later. These careful actions are not in line with the carefree lifestyle i saw myself living. 

now, i have preferences — the garbage bags with the built in drawstrings over the ones with the four flaps that you need a twist-tie to fasten, the double-sealed, oversized Ziploc bags over the more finicky slider-vari­ety bags. i resent who i’m becoming: my mother’s son, my grandmother’s grandson and my aunt’s nephew. my future, of painstakingly securing and tidying all of my perishables and trash alike, scares me to no end. i thought i would remove myself from the suffocation of plastic bags that surrounded me as i got to college; in­stead, i embraced it, becoming what i hate. 
perhaps i was simply rebellious in my youth, unable to appreciate or accept the technical beauty and elegant advantage of these obstacles that always stood in my way. or maybe i was just foolish and impatient, not re­alizing the rewards of delayed gratification that a little time spent fiddling with a plastic bag has to offer. either way, i have seen the light shining through the transpar­ent material. i have become an endorser of plastic bag, a supporter of securing, a proponent of the worst thing ever. i still try to stick behind my original view, but i can’t deny their usefulness and functionality — and that destroys my spirit. i worry about what other significant changes in heart await my future. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Seminoles easy to root for 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
growing up in new york, i had kind of an odd con­nection to Florida state. my grandpa got me an Fsu sweatshirt on a trip one year, and it was pretty much the most comfortable piece of cotton ever sewn together. i wore it constantly, and as it got a reputation, i received other Florida state gear and people assumed i was a fan, although i never had a rea­son to root for the team. 
until now. 
Florida state is ranked third in the Bcs stand­ings this week; last week, the seminoles were in sec­ond. voters and computers pushed oregon past the seminoles over the weekend, with two main factors play­ing into the rankings change. 
First, Fsu came out and imposed its will on north carolina state, scoring four touchdowns in the first nine minutes and cruising to a 42-0 halftime lead over the wolfpack. 
But then the ‘noles chose to call off the dogs for the second half, benching their starters and surrendering potential style points on the way to a comfortable 49-17 win. The second half shouldn’t change the quality of the win, but the final score seems to weigh on voters far more than it should. 
a second reason for the seminoles’ drop also has to do with voters, namely their head coach, Jimbo Fisher. Fisher receives a vote in the usa Today coaches’ poll, but he did not put his undefeated team at no. 1 in his ballot this week, as he suggested that alabama’s dominance over the past years gives them claim to the honor of the top spot. 
That modesty and re­straint is a welcome change in college football, where the lack of a playoff system has motivated some teams to try and game the system for a shot at a title. 
Fisher himself is a fun figure to root for. out of the recent crop of fantastically named coaches at south­ern schools (houston nutt, kliff kingsbury and dabo swinney come to mind), it’s still hard to beat a guy named Jimbo Fisher. 
he honed his craft under les miles at lsu before wait­ing out the retirement of legendary seminoles coach Bobby Bowden, and his teams are fun to watch. This year’s squad is particularly attention grabbing, as first-year quarterback phenom Jameis winston pushed him­self to the forefront of the heisman race through his many highlight reel plays. 
Florida state went on the road to play then-no. 3 clemson in death valley 11 days ago and gave the Tigers a thorough undressing in a 51-14 primetime win. The seminoles will have another chance to make a state­ment this weekend, when they host no. 7 miami for their second top-10, college gameday-featured matchup in three weeks. 
The hurricanes are also undefeated on the year, and Fisher gave credit to both teams’ success in a press conference earlier this week, saying, “you ain’t undefeated for no reason.” 
Fisher has earned my re­spect by coaching an enter­taining team, and showing a restraint that is uncommon in today’s college sports world. 
he’s won me over with one heck of a classic Florida panhandle name. plus, he’s playing the villainous miami hurricanes this weekend, which is enough to make anyone a Florida state fan come saturday night. 
But pulling off the first tri­ple negative i’ve ever seen in the english language? That’s enough to send me search­ing the attic for a decade-old sweatshirt. 
Fsu 37, miami 17. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

purdue suspends hammons 
Associated Press 
purdue center a.J. hammons was suspended monday for three games for violating team rules. 
hammons will miss two ex­hibition games and purdue’s regular-season opener nov. 8 against northern kentucky. coach matt painter declined to elaborate on what rules were broken, other than the suspension for the 7-foot, 251-pound hammons was related to “conduct” and not academics, legal trouble or ncaa rule violations. 
“i think one of these situ­ations is that you learn a lot about the individual because when something like this happens, you let your team­mates down but you’ve also let yourself down,” painter said. “if you have some pride, you know you’re not going to let it happen again.” 
hammons is expected to be a centerpiece in this season’s restoration project at purdue. 
a year ago, painter’s team finished 16-17 and missed the ncaa tournament for the first time in seven years despite getting a strong freshman seasons from hammons and point guard ronnie Johnson. hammons averaged 10.6 points and 6.0 rebounds, and then showed 
up  in  better  shape  this  
season.  
with  hammons  out,  

painter will give 6-10 red-shirt freshman Jay simpson and 6-9 senior Travis carroll more playing time. if they take advantage, it could earn them more minutes as the season goes along and create more depth along purdue’s front line. 
painter has seen it all work out before. 
“we had a situation at southern illinois where a guy ended up getting in trouble and this other guy that really struggled taking care of the basketball and wasn’t play­ing that much time, i was forced to play him,” painter said during a conference call with reporters. “That guy stayed in our rotation and helped us win games, ended up being one of the best defensive players in the country and first-team all-league. The other guy came back and never got in trouble again and i think went on to become academic all-league, so it all worked out well.” 
painter is hoping for a similar result in west lafayette. now it’s up to the Boilermakers to respond. 
“This right here, i think if it happened right in the mid­dle of Big Ten play, i think it would fit that category,” painter said when asked about the adversity of los­ing hammons. “But since it’s at the beginning of the sea­son, i think we can use it as a positive.” 
NFL 

keenum to start for Texans 
 Associated Press 
case keenum will start at quarterback in place of a healthy matt schaub when the Texans host division foe indianapolis on sunday night. 
coach gary kubiak an­nounced the decision monday and said he had de­cided before the bye week­end to give keenum a second straight start as the Texans try to end a five-game los­ing streak. kubiak said the decision was not for the rest of the season, but is geared toward trying to keep the team going in the right di­rection following a close 17-16 loss to kansas city in which keenum played well. 
“i’ve got to make deci­sions i think are best for the football team right now,” kubiak said. “The decision i made was based on what i saw take place last week with case and him taking advantage of an opportu­nity. i want to see him move forward.” 
keenum saw the first game action of his two-year 

FOR RENT 
B&B for ND/SMC parents by ND parents, 2 night minimum. 10 min­utes from campus. 574-272-5640 
career in the loss to the chiefs. Teammates pointed to the energy he brought to the field while going 15 for 25 for 271 yards and a touchdown. 
“i thought we went out and played better football and that’s why we had a chance to win in kansas city,” kubiak said. “i thought (keenum) did some really good things. he’s got to improve. This foot­ball team’s got to improve around him.” 
keenum said he needs to “get better in a lot of things,” including making reads and picking up the types of blitzes he saw in the fourth quarter against kansas city. 
“i imagine we’ll see it again,” keenum said of the pressure. “you put it on film and people see it. so cor­recting that is going to be big time.” 
schaub, a seven-year vet­eran who was handpicked by kubiak to replace david carr in 2007, got off to a rough start leading the team to a 2-4 record before leaving a loss to the st. louis rams with an ankle injury. 
“it’s obviously very dis­appointing with all we’ve been through here and all we’ve done, but i’m part of the reason we’re in this situation as a football team,” schaub said. “as a player and a competitor, i don’t like it and i want to be out there. obviously, i haven’t played up to my standards this year. i think that’s where it mostly stems from.” 
schaub was back at prac­tice monday, but keenum will get the reins of the of­fense knowing that he’s starting not for injury rea­sons, but for his play on the field. now he will get the chance to show it in front of the hometown fans. 
“i imagine i’ll have a few more goose bumps than i did last week,” said keenum, who starred at the university of houston. “To play in houston, to play at reliant . i know sunday night’s going to be very special.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Wake Me Up” -Avicii all over/ When I’m wiser and I’m old­“They tell me I’m too young to under-er/ All this time I was finding myself/ stand/ They say I’m caught up in a And I didn’t know I was lost I tried dream/ Well life will pass me by if I carrying the weight of the world/ But don’t open up my eyes/ Well that’s I only have two hands/ Hope I get the fine by me/ So wake me up when it’s chance to travel the world” 


SMC SOCCER | sainT mary’s 1, alBion 0 
seniors lead Belles to victory 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s will look to sweep the season series over the comets when the Belles travel to olivet, mich. on wednesday. 
The Belles (7-7-3, 5-5-3 miaa) are coming off a 1-0 senior day victory over albion on saturday. The Belles dominated in all facets of the game against the Britons, controlling possession throughout the game and com­piling 19 total shots. conversely, the Belles defense, anchored by junior defenders mary kate hussey and kerry green, held albion to only one shot in the game. The Britons did not get a single shot off in the second half. 
despite the dominant perfor­mance, the Belles did not break the tie until the 53rd minute, when senior midfielder mollie valencia put a through ball down the middle of the field to sophomore forward maggie wenzel, who took a single touch before rocketing a shot past albion freshman goalkeeper mackenzie hurlburt for her sec­ond goal of the season. 
Junior goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum picked up the shutout without recording a single save, and green led the Belles with three shots. The win snapped a three-game losing streak for the Belles. 
despite the win, the three-game losing streak eliminated 

ISABELLA BIANCO | The Observer 
Saint Mary’s junior defender Abby Garcia blocks an Alma player’s kick during the Belle’s 1-0 loss to the Scots on Oct. 16. 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF | 11Th ouT oF 18 
Irish tie for 11th place in N.C. 

the Belles from the four-team miaa playoff, as the Belles now sit in sixth place in the miaa, 12 points behind fourth-place adrian. 
The comets (7-9-0, 4-9-0) are coming off a win of their own, a 3-1 victory over Trine on saturday. olivet, which sits in seventh place in the miaa, is also eliminated from postsea­son contention. 
olivet has seven players who have scored two goals apiece. senior midfielder lindsey winters leads the comets with five assists on the season. olivet sophomore goalkeeper deanna 
paid adverTisemenT 
Zolnoski has a 2.06 goals-against-average and has record­ed four shutouts in 13 starts this season. 
when the two teams met sept. 28, the Belles outshot the comets, 17-4, on the way to a 3-1 victory. sophomore defender lindsay rzepecki, freshman forward rosie Biehl and green all found the back of the net for the Belles. rosenbaum recorded two saves on three shots on goal in the win. 
The Belles and comets take the pitch today at 4 p.m. at the cutler athletic complex in olivet, mich. 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports writer 
notre dame concluded its fall season over the week­end by tying for 11th place at the landfall Tradition at the country club of landfall in wilmington, n.c. 
The irish concluded the tournament, which ran from Friday to sunday, with a three-day score of 924. 
The team shot a 314 on Friday and followed it by shooting a 305 both saturday and sunday. ohio state and north carolina tied the irish in 11th place. 
Junior captain ashley armstrong led the way for notre dame, shooting a 224 over three rounds to finish in 16th place. The tournament was one of armstrong’s most consis­tent of the season, as she started the weekend with a pair of 74s before ending with a 76. 
irish coach susan holt said she saw positives from her captain over the weekend. 
“i think the biggest thing for [armstrong] is just con­sistency from day to day,” holt said. “she had a 76 on sunday, but did the back [nine] closer to par.” 
despite a wrist injury ear­ly in the season, armstrong had an impressive fall, holt said. 
“[armstrong] had the best season of all of the players,” holt said.  “her injury was just a weird thing where her wrist just flared up … she had some goals that she didn’t reach, but all things considered, she had one of the best semesters.” 
Besides armstrong, fresh­man Jordan Ferreira also contributed a strong effort, finishing 32nd. improving each day of the tournament, Ferreira finished the week­end with a 229 and had a one-over-par 73 in the final round, which was the 14th best score of the day in the 95-player field. The strong showing was the culmina­tion of a promising debut season for the freshman, holt said. 
“i think [Ferreira] had a pretty good semester,” holt said. “[This past weekend], she was the only player to consistently improve with each round. she’s smart like that, and i think that’ll con­tinue to be the case in the spring.” 
senior kristina nhim, junior kelli oride and sophomore Talia campbell rounded out the competi­tors for the irish with a 236 and a pair of 238s, re­spectively. campbell and oride matched each other throughout the weekend with scores of 81, 79, and 78, respectively. 
with the fall season now over, the irish will now take the offseason to improve and prepare for conference competition in the spring. 
“overall, i think the fall was a little disappointing,” holt said. “we certainly set some attainable goals as a team and just fell short. i try to put our kids against the top competition in the country, and hopefully in the spring we’ll be able to play more consistently against them. we do have the talent; we just need to put it all together.” 
The irish will not play again until Feb. 14, when they will compete at the Florida state match-up at the southwood golf course in Tallahassee, Fla. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 




MEN’S GOLF | The inviTaTional aT The ocean course 
Final-round woes sink irish 

By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
The final round of The invitational at The ocean course in kiawah island, s.c., proved to be an obstacle the irish could not overcome. 
notre dame held fifth place after two rounds, but shot a field-worst 312 in Tuesday’s final round to drop into a tie for 11th place in the field of 14 teams. no. 17 south Florida grabbed the top spot in the invitational with a team score of seven-over par 871 (281-295-285). 
“we struggled [Tuesday],” irish coach Jim kubinski. “we played a really tough round. we struggled, real­ly, in every area. we didn’t putt well; we didn’t have our short game. and uncharac­teristically, we didn’t strike the ball well.” 
The last round notwith­standing, kubinski said the irish appeared to be able to compete with top-10 teams, such as no. 8 georgia. with an overall team score of 876 (296-297-293), georgia fin­ished in a tie for third place with kentucky (288-293-295). 
“after the first two rounds, we thought we could catch georgia,” kubinski said. “we were in fifth place and only four shots behind them [en­tering the final round], but they played well [Tuesday], and we probably had the worst round of the day.” 
although notre dame was on pace for one of its best finishes of the season, the irish finished with a three-round score of 909, their sec­ond-worst outing of the fall season. 
“i don’t know what changed,” kubinski said of the final round. “we did ev­erything the same way. we had the same approach as the first rounds. we were in good shape going into [Tuesday], but i’m not sure why we didn’t perform very well. [we] played so differ­ently [Tuesday].” 
Junior Tyler wingo led the irish, as he tied for 22nd place individually. he shot a seven-over par 79 in the final round to finish the tourna­ment with an eight-over par 
224. wingo dropped 15 spots in the final round, moving from seventh to 22nd overall. 
senior niall platt began the third round tied for 14th, but slid 19 spots to tie for 33rd with a three-round score of 227 (76-71-80). 
kubinski said he was un­able to discern why notre dame’s play diminished in the final 18 holes of the tournament. 
“i thought we hit an enor­mous amount of greens in the first two rounds,” kubinski said. “whether we got worn down or what, i don’t know. it appeared we did, but it happens.” 
The ocean course was unforgiving to the irish on Tuesday, kubinski said. 
“i told the guys, even if you were a little bit off, the course penalized slight mis­takes,” kubinski said. “and it did.” 
The irish have now con­cluded their fall season and are on hiatus until they start the san diego intercollegiate at san diego country club on march 10. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL | smc 3, monTclair sTaTe 0; smc 3, hunTer college 1 
Belles triumph in NYC 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
The Belles swept a double­header against nonconfer­ence opponents montclair state and hunter college in new york on saturday. 
saint mary’s defeated montclair state, 3-0, and triumphed over hunter, 3-1, at the hunter sportsplex. 
Belles coach Toni elyea said saint mary’s (11-14, 7-8 miaa) enjoyed the trip and the competition from montclair state (15-9, 5-3 nJac), who is fourth in its conference, and hunter (14­11, 6-1 cun), who sits at third in its conference. 
“The Belles had an amaz­ing trip to new york city,” elyea said. “we enjoyed the opportunities to meet some of our fellow alumnae and see the sights, as well as play some great competition.” 
saint mary’s turned in one of its best hitting per­formances of the season against montclair state. The Belles posted a .252 at­tacking percentage for the match. sophomore out­side hitter katie hecklinski smashed 10 kills, while ju­nior middle hitter melanie kuczek added nine kills and had  a .467 kill percentage. 
saint mary’s held the red hawks to a -.037 percentage behind the strength of 61 digs, six block assists and one solo block by kuczek. 
elyea said saint mary’s ran an efficient offense be­cause its ball control pro­vided the team with attack opportunities. 
“we had great ball control over the weekend, which al­lowed our setters to run a faster offense,” elyea said. “we were able to swing with complete confidence this past weekend because of our defenders passing abilities.” 
Freshman setter clare mcmillan set up most of the Belles’ attacks, as she finished with 31 assists against the red hawks and 43 assists against hunter. 
elyea praised mcmillan’s 
composure  and  perfor­ 
mance  as  a  first-year  
starter.  

“i am very proud of her and all that she has accom­plished this season so far,” elyea said. “clare is a very composed athlete, which allows her to play well no matter what point in the set we are on.” 
hecklinski benefited from mcmillan’s sets and pound­ed 15 kills against hunter. Junior outside hitter kati schneider also posted 15 
paid adverTisemenT 
kills, and junior defensive specialist samantha grady had 15 digs to lead the Belles to a win over hunter. 
saint mary’s hit for a .190 attacking percentage and held the hawks to .106 per­centage, as the Belles re­corded 68 digs, six block assists and six solo blocks, all by kuczek. 
The Belles end their regu­lar season against adrian on Friday at 7 p.m., in the angela athletic complex. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 





MEN’S SWIMMING | nd 134, air Force 128 

Seven wins propel Irish past Air Force 

By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
Before notre dame and air Force met on the gridiron on saturday, the two schools met in the pool, with the irish scoring a close 134-128 win over the Falcons on Friday at the usaFa natatorium in colorado springs, colo. 
The irish (1-2) had a swim­mer place in the top two spots in all but two events and notched victories in seven in­dividual events and a relay against air Force (6-2). 
“we swam with great heart,” irish coach Tim welsh said. “we trained at altitude and then went up even higher to compete at the air Force academy, but we raced re­ally well. across the meet, 
paid adverTisemenT 

the races were very good. and we won a lot of those races, especially in the first half of the meet, because i thought we just had great heart, great energy, great spirit and great competition. i was very happy with that meet.” 
making its first trip to air Force in 11 years, notre dame opened the dual meet with a win in the 200-yard medley re­lay, completed by sophomore Bogac ayhan, junior cameron miller, senior Frank dyer and junior Zach stephens in 1:30.88. 
sophomore michael hudspith nabbed the first in­dividual victory for the irish, winning the 200-yard free­style in 1:42.91. senior colin Babcock and junior kevin hughes followed hudspith in third and fourth place, respectively. 
notre dame also placed three swimmers in the top four spots in the 100-yard breaststroke. stephens took first in 56.02, while miller finished in 56.32 for second place, and junior pat olson seized fourth in 1:00.08. 
“we’re quite balanced in most of our events, and we have two, three or four guys who are swimming close to one another, which is a great competition factor,” welsh said. “But i think in the meets, one of the ways you can look at it is first place is offense; two, three, four, five are defense. and it matters to us to play good defense. 
“against air Force, more times than not, we had three of the five [scoring places], and across 16 events, that does make a difference.” 
Freshman Tom anderson earned his first collegiate win with a victory in the 200-yard backstroke, hitting the touch-pad at 1:53.02. anderson’s victory was the second indi­vidual win for any irish fresh­man this season. Freshman diver Joe coumos finished first in the 3-meter dive in a double-dual meet against auburn and michigan on oct. 12. 
“Tom’s a very good swim­mer, and we knew that coming in,” welsh said. “he’s a great trainer, he’s a great racer, and i think as his career advances here at notre dame, we’re go­ing to count on him more and more and more.” 
also finishing in the top spot for the irish were ayhan in the 100-yard backstroke, junior John williamson in the 200-yard butterfly and dyer in the 50- and 500-yard freestyle events. 
The win capped off notre dame’s weeklong fall break training trip to colorado. They practiced at the u.s. olympic Training center in colorado springs, where they trained in the long-course, 50-me­ter pool. The team also did some sightseeing in the rocky mountains and attended the irish football game saturday, welsh said. 
“The training trip was won­derful, and it was wonderful in every aspect,” welsh said. “The practices were spirited; they were good; they were hard; they were aggressive, so we were very happy with those. and everything you see on the grounds [of the u.s. olympic Training center] is very inspiring.” 
with their first dual-meet win under their belts, the irish will next dive into action against purdue on Friday in west lafayette, ind. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


of a home crowd. 
Football 
W Basketball 
“[wednesday night is] pret­
conTinued From page 16 conTinued From page 16 
ty much a practice game,” 
mcgraw said. “it’s a dress re­played for the canadian na-hearsal for the season. The big­
“questionable.” tional team, which won the sil-gest thing is for the freshmen 
sophomore defensive line­ver medal at september’s FiBa to get acclimated to what game 
man sheldon day is “prob­americas championship in day is all about, get the jitters 
able” for navy, and kelly said Xalapa, mexico. out and get the uniform on for 
day has been suffering from a “we’ve got people we can the first time and play in front 
bone bruise. rely on to score,” mcgraw of the fans. defense is our main 
Junior linebacker ishaq said. “we’ve got people who goal. we want work on our 
williams will miss saturday’s have played big minutes in big man-to-man defense. on of-
game with a knee injury after games. i think kayla mcBride fense, [we need to] just execute. 
leaving the air Force game is going to have a fantastic we’ve learned a lot, so we just 
early. season. she should be up for want to execute.” 
kelly said sophomore safety [national] player of the year, allen will receive her first 
elijah shumate was “moving certainly. i think she’s one of start as point guard in the ex-
around well” and that he’ll the best players in the coun-hibition. notre dame’s strong 
practice. shumate’s role has try. natalie achonwa, coming veteran core should help allen 
not been determined, accord-off that silver medal down in adjust quickly, mcgraw said. 
ing to kelly. mexico just recently, has got “we’ve got a freshman point 
The irish offensive line will some great experience.” guard, so this is a great first 
look more like the unit that at the team’s media day on test,” mcgraw said. “[allen 

started the game saturday getting excited. it’s still that individual,” golson said. “That oct. 8, mcgraw said she ex-is] doing really well. she has 
than the one that closed the sense of, well, you’re not there. goes for on and off the field. i pects continued production picked things up really quick-
win over air Force. graduate seeing those guys just going know a lot of people are more from sophomore guard Jewell ly, and with a veteran group 
student left guard chris watt out there and battling every focused on me actually get­loyd, the reigning national around her, i think she’ll do 
was “probable,” kelly said, week and me not being a part ting on the field. i’m more so Freshman of the year. well.” 
while sophomore right tackle of that, that really kind of hurt focused on getting back in the “i don’t really expect her role even though the upperclass­
ronnie stanley was supposed me.” classroom since that’s where it to change too much because men will lead this year’s team, 
to practice Tuesday. golson said notre dame’s happened.” we relied on her so heavily the irish freshmen have the po­
losses were even tougher to golson said he did not last year as our best defender,” tential to contribute, according 
Golson talks to SI deal with. choose to go to a junior college mcgraw said of loyd. “she to mcgraw. 
in an interview with sports “i felt like i maybe could or even another school be-was one of the leading scorers “i think we expect the vets to 
illustrated’s andy staples, have been there, trying to do cause he wanted to finish what on the team. she did so many carry the load,” mcgraw said. 
suspended irish quarterback my best to help the team win he started at notre dame. good things for us … we’ll con-“i think the freshmen will con­
everett golson said he was so it hurts,” golson said. “my heart was set on going tinue to use her as a defensive tribute on both ends of the floor, 
kicked out of notre dame be-golson has been work-back to notre dame, not nec­stopper.” especially the point guard. we 
cause he cheated on a test. ing out in san diego with re-essarily to prove to anybody The irish play an exhibition have expectations for the entire 
golson, who was suspended nowned quarterbacks coach but really, just doing it for me,” game against division ii op-freshman class.” 
for the semester because of the george whitfield during his he said. “That’s something ponent california university of The irish take the court 
transgression, said watching absence from school. he said that i started, and i didn’t want pennsylvania tonight at purcell wednesday at 7 p.m. against 
the irish play without him has the training has been “ridicu-to run away from it and go to a pavilion. The exhibition will california (pa.) at purcell 
been a tough experience. lously good for me” and that Juco or go to another school. i give the freshmen their first op-pavilion. 
“i’ve never had so many people should expect a differ-was going to face it.” portunity to experience a col-
mixed emotions in my life,” ent golson when he returns to lege basketball game day and Contact Samantha Zuba at 

he said to staples. “i’m con-south Bend in January. Contact Matthew DeFranks play with the veterans in front szuba@nd.edu 
stantly watching the game and “[i’ll be] a more polished at mdefrank@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT demetrius Jackson and fellow 
Monaco 
rookies steve vasturia and v.J. conTinued From page 16 Beachem, and notre dame is 
deeper than perhaps it’s ever eric atkins are the undis-been in recent memory. puted leaders of the team and and the team culture that is catalysts of the on-court attack. perfect for this particular team grant recorded 194 assists in 35 and pervades the irish program games (5.54 per game), while figures to be successful. atkins tallied 193 in 35 contests But just how successful? 
(5.51 per game). There may be if grant and atkins can, at no better indication of notre times, eschew the well-bal­dame’s balance and team-anced offense and completely centric approach than those take over games in spurts, numbers. The two best perim-notre dame will be better off. eter players — and two of the if sherman can, in bunches, team’s best three players overall heat up and provide bursts last season — led the squad in of scoring like he did against assists and had almost identical louisville when he dropped totals. 17 points in 22 minutes, notre 
Junior guard/forward pat dame will be well-positioned connaughton impressed in to make a leap on the national the Big east Tournament as a scale. knockdown 3-point shooter. if, when the team needs a lift, senior center garrick sherman connaughton can rain multiple propelled the irish offensively threes per half and ignite the monday with 21 points, and offense momentarily, the irish his soft touch and nimble will be better for it. footwork could be crucial to Team ball can carry notre notre dame’s frontline scoring. dame, but only to a certain graduate student forward Tom point. knight logged important and it’s tough to make the next productive minutes after scott step as a program without ex­martin’s injury last season, and ceptional moments from the knight’s mid-range game is individuals. unmatched on the team. 
Factor in sophomore for-Contact Mike Monaco at wards Zach auguste and jmonaco@nd.edu austin Burgett, the possibility    The views expressed in this of sophomore forward cam column are those of the author Biedscheid (if he doesn’t red-and not necessarily those of The shirt), freshman sensation Observer. 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher Brucker SUDOKU | The mepham group 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ben Foster, 33; gabrielle union, 41; winona ryder, 42; richard dreyfuss, 66. 
Happy Birthday: detail, dedication and finishing what you start will take you to a place that allows you to expand your interests and incorporate what you learn into future goals. expanding your outlook and looking for obscure solutions to situations that arise will help you stand out and win the confidence of those you deal with. strive for perfection and for setting a high standard. your numbers are 6, 11, 18, 23, 32, 45, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): size up what is possible and what isn’t. you may feel restless and in need of change, but simple moves will ensure that you aren’t stuck with something you don’t want. love is on the horizon, but patience will be required. 



TAURUS (April 20-May 20): learn from the company you keep. engage in talks and new adventures that will take you into unfamiliar territory. Take a serious look at your past and make a commitment or promise to someone special. a partnership will enhance your life. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): handle work in a timely fashion. don’t let an emotional incident cost you. keep your temper in check and your ideas flowing. a relationship will take an interesting turn if you are honest about the way you feel. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): enjoy your friends, relatives and the pleasures that life brings you. look for information that will help you understand your roots and guide you in a direction that helps you use your skills fluently and to the benefit of others. 



LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t say too much if you want to avoid trouble. you will be criticized if you try to flex your muscles. adapt to whatever comes your way and make it work for you without getting wrapped up in the melodrama. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take charge and follow through with your plans. engage in intimate conversations and listen to the complaints your colleagues and clients make. your thoughtful actions will put you in a category that allows you to call the shots. 



LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): show more interest in what others are doing and adapt something you used to be good at into your everyday routine. doubling up on what you can do may be tiresome, but it will also bring you added benefits. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): give whatever job you do your very best. pay close at­tention to detail and make whatever adjustments are necessary to finish what you start. an alternative lifestyle will suit you best and encourage you to develop your own brand or service. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Focus on home, family and making the right moves that will keep you out of trouble and everyone happy. don’t let an emotional matter escalate or you will face disillusionment and uncertainty. stick to the truth and keep life simple. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): exercise your right to follow your dreams. Take the unusual route and you will not be disappointed. a positive change in your finances can be expected. perfectionism plus hard work will result in a chance to enrich your life. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t trust anyone with your secrets. you are best to size up your situation and do what you can to help others, but don’t let anyone take advantage of your kindness. don’t let restlessness cost you. Think before you make a move. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): emotions will surface. don’t give in to anyone putting demands on you. it’s never too late to change your mind and opt for something less complicated. Follow the path that best suits your current situation. money is headed in your direction. 


Birthday Baby: you are dynamic, inventive and complex. you are innovative and loyal. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. Box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

city state Zip 

FOOTBALL 
Defend and contain 

Defense improves after loss to Oklahoma; Nix status remains uncertain; Golson talks to Sports Illustrated 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
since surrendering 35 points and 450 yards of offense in a loss to oklahoma on sept. 28, no. 25 notre dame’s defense has come alive. 
in wins over arizona state, usc and air Force, the irish defense forced six turnovers, picked up eight sacks and al­lowed less than 16 points per game. notre dame (6-2) has not given up a point in the third quarter during the three-game winning streak, and the Trojans and Falcons did not muster any second-half points. 
after the oklahoma loss, irish coach Brian kelly said the de­fense was solid despite its per­formance against the sooners. 
“i think our defense is solid,” kelly said on oct. 2. “i don’t think they’re spectacular, but i think it’s a solid defense that we can win with. we uncharacter­istically gave up two big plays that we’re not accustomed to giving up. we’re solid as a de­fense. we’re not spectacular, but we’re solid.” 
since then, the notre dame defense has contained three dynamic offenses that have each put up at least 40 points in a game this season. 
kelly said the signs for a bet­ter defense were apparent to him. 
“i felt the fundamentals were in place,” kelly said on Tuesday. “i thought that we were begin­ning to play the kind of run de­fense necessary to keep us in every ballgame. and we were starting to get some really good play on the edge of our defense, which is so important to every­thing that we do in the 3 4 de­fense. so there were signs that were pointing in that direction. now you’ve got to put it all to­gether. But i was very confident that the markers were there, and they were pointing in the right direction.” 
The irish will now look to slow down navy’s triple op­tion a week after shutting down the Falcons. kelly said the midshipmen (4-3) run a differ­ent system than air Force did. 


“But navy runs the triple op-preciseness of how they run it tion better than anybody in the may not to the untrained eye country,” kelly said. “i mean, look like much, but it’s a real big it’s what they do. and they have difference.” so many variations off of it, just little variations that make Injuries update a huge difference, splits, the kelly said senior nose guard louis nix’s status for saturday’s game is still up in the air. nix missed the air Force game with knee tendonitis. kelly said nix was “progressing” but still 
see FooTBall PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Freshmen debut at Purcell 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
it will be more than life-af­ter-diggins for the no. 2 irish this season. 
skylar diggins led notre dame at point guard for four years, but now a new class of leaders will take over for the irish. 
irish coach muffet mcgraw said the irish upperclassmen would help the team find a unique identity as the season progresses. 
“each team has its own iden­tity, and it generally takes on the personality of the upper­classmen and the senior class,” mcgraw said. “That identity is still forming. we’re not sure what it is yet, but we’re in good hands with the senior class.” 
notre dame enters the 2013­2014 season with a promis­ing crew of freshmen and an experienced senior class. The irish will welcome freshmen guard lindsay allen, forward kristin nelson, forward Taya reimer and center diamond Thompson this season. Forwards natalie achonwa and ariel Braker and guard kayla mcBride return as se­niors for notre dame. 
mcgraw said she expects contributions early from the freshmen, particularly allen, who will replace diggins at point guard, and reimer, who will add a post presence to the roster. 
The seniors have helped the freshmen settle onto the court, mcgraw said. 
“The seniors are doing a great job of helping the fresh­men along in any way they can,” mcgraw said. “lindsay is going to start at point guard; reimer is going to play a lot in the post, and the others are improving every day.” 

The irish will count on mcBride and achonwa for consistent scoring because of their experience. achonwa, a native of guelph, ontario, 
see w BaskeTBall PAGE 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

irish need more than depth 

Mike Monaco 
sports editor 
it’s tough not to be intrigued by notre dame’s depth. 
it’s tough not to be captivated by the team-first, assist-dishing style of five players orchestrated as one. 
after monday’s 95-69 exhibi­tion beatdown of indianapolis, irish coach mike Brey loved how “everybody is getting involved,” how the team was “sharing the ball,” how the team posted 29 assists on 35 made field goals. 
But to take the next step to­ward being a squad capable of a legitimate ncaa Tournament run, notre dame will need more than just a team effort. it will need the exceptional from its individuals. 
it happens in moments like the ridiculous 12-point, 29-second stretch from senior guard Jerian grant, who single­handedly brought out the defi­brillator against louisville last season and resurrected notre dame’s chances to down the eventual national champion. 
obviously, that’s an once-in-a-lifetime run of scoring by the senior, but it’s that type of exceptional play by individuals outstepping the bounds of team basketball that will be needed to carry notre dame to its first sweet 16 appearance since 2003. 
The irish have been a suc­cessful regular-season and early-postseason unit in re­cent years, routinely notching 20-plus wins and reaching the semifinals of the Big east Tournament. But the next step is a deep(er) run in the ncaa Tournament, and, in certain spots, something more than ef­ficient, equal-distribution bas­ketball will be a necessity. 
don’t get me wrong. The typi­cal display of terrific ball move­ment and touch passes that was exhibited monday is beautiful to watch and also highly suc­cessful. notre dame knows how to play together, and, on any given night, one of a handful of guys could lead the team in scoring. 
grant and fellow senior guard 
see monaco PAGE 14 




