The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 54 | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Tibetan Buddhist monks create mandala 
Group constructs colorful sand artwork in Jordan Hall of Science during final stop on national tour 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
a group of Tibetan buddhist monks will spend the week in Jordan hall of science constructing a peace sand mandala, a sacred part of ancient buddhist tradition. 
arjia rinpoche, director of the Tibetan mongolian buddhist cultural center in bloomington, ind., will spend time in commu­nion with and seven monks from labrang Tashi Kyil monastery in dehra dun, india while they complete the mandala. They will be in the reading room of Jordan constructing the mandala from 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. monday through Thursday. 
dominic vachon, director of the hillebrand center, said he hopes the monks and their faith will help people to maintain com­passion while encountering suffering and difficulty. 
“while arjia rinpoche and the monks will not be talking directly about med­icine, i believe that their in­tense practice and study of compassion will spark each of us to consider our own personal practices of cul­tivating compassion in all our helping work,” he said. “even though the focus of the hillebrand center is on the science of compassion­ate care in medicine, we also study and reflect on 
see monKs PAGE 5 

ISABELLA BIANCO | The Observer 
A peace sand mandala created by a group of Buddhist monks in the Reading Room of Jordan Hall of       Science will be built all week and dismantled on Thursday, in accordance with Buddhist tradition. 



ND ranks fifth in study abroad participation 

By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
The opportunity to spend a semester of college taking classes in a foreign coun­try, visiting new places and forming strong relationships with other students to many seems too good to pass up, and notre dame students are taking advantage of study abroad opportunities at higher rates than ever before. 
according to the open doors report released by the institute of international education (iie), notre dame ranks fifth nationwide in percentage of undergradu­ate students participating in study abroad programs among u.s. doctoral and re­search institutions. The story focused on the 2011 to 2012 academic year. 

The united Kingdom, italy, spain, France and china ranked as the top five des­tinations for american stu­dents, and the iie reported a steady increase in students pursuing academic semes­ters in foreign countries over 
the past decade. according to the report, 
65.9 percent of notre dame students participate in study abroad, a 6.2 percent in­crease from 2012. last year, the university ranked ninth in the survey. 
The notre dame international website states that the mission of international studies is “to enable international learn­ing and research experiences that enhance the academic, 
see ranKing PAGE 5 


gary’s first female mayor delivers leadership lecture 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
Karen Freeman-wilson, the first female mayor of gary, ind., and the first african american mayor in indiana spoke about her leadership experience in a lecture at saint mary’s monday evening. 
Junior brooke Fowler and her classmates in an intercultural leadership development course invited Freeman-wilson to speak as part of an assignment to reach out to an influential fe­male leader. 
“in class we talk a lot about leadership styles. The style i most admire is servant lead­ership in which the leader focuses directly on the needs of the people and places [herself] among the people to serve and work towards a common goal,” Fowler said. “This is what Karen is doing.” 
Freeman-wilson is cur­rently in her second term as gary’s mayor. she said it was not her successes but rather her failures that got her to where she is today. 
“i have a firm belief that god puts where he wants you to be,” Freeman-wilson said. 
despite having lost more city elections than she has won since 1987, Freeman­wilson said she successfully gained the mayoral seat after a group of people urged her to run again. 
“i ran in 2003 and 2007 un­successfully for mayor of the city of gary and after my loss in 2007, [i] decided that the voters [were] not interested in [my] service,” Freeman­wilson said.
 “so in 2011 when some guys came to me and said ‘we have a poll that shows that you’re the only person that can beat the incumbent and we think that it’s your time,’ i said no, but they kept pressing the 
see mayor PAGE 4 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                     peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining halla notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What is your favorite holiday drink? 

Ali Queen 
senior ryan hall 

“peppermint hot chocolate.” 
Janie Fineis 
freshman Farley hall 
“pumpkin spice latte.” 
Nestor Agbayani 
senior off campus 
“Kamchatka.” 


Meaghan McKena 
sophomore pasquerilla hall west 
“eggnog.” 
Sam Wright 
junior Farley hall 
“eggnog.” 
Arthur Laciak 
junior sorin college 
“a warm cup of tea.” 

Today’s Staff 
News Sports 

ann marie Jakubowski greg hadley Want your event included here? Katie mccarty meri Kelly 
Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
haleigh ehmsen isaac lorton 
Graphics Scene 
emily danaher maddie daly 

Photo Viewpoint Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Karla moreno dan brombach 
‘I was Born, But..” Mass of “Figure it Out” Laughter Yoga Concert on the Steps DeBartolo Performing Remembrance Snite Museum of Art St. Liam Hall Bond Hall 
Corrections 

Arts Center Pasquerilla Hall West 5 p.m.- 7:30 p.m. 1:30 p.m.- 2:30 p.m. 2 p.m.- 2:30 p.m. in the nov. 17 issue of The observer, 8 p.m. 9 p.m.- 10 p.m. Figure drawing Part of stress-buster ND Band performs 90 the article “department of education Classic Japanese film. Memorial mass. session. Fridays. minutes before kickoff. 
workshops inspire creativity” misattributed information about negativity in education 
Four: 7 Catholic Laird Hunt Reading Film: “Oh Boy” Notre Dame Vigil Mass 
to chris higgs-coulthard when Kathy 
Fellowship Eck Visitors Center DeBartolo Performing Symphony Orchestra Basilica of the Sacred 
higgs-coulthard actually said it. The article 
Cavanaugh Hall 7:30 p.m.- 9 p.m. Arts DeBartolo Performing Heart 
“smc reaches out to underpriviledged 
8:15p.m.- 9:30 p.m. Reading by award-7 p.m.- 9:30 p.m. Arts Center 7:30 p.m.- 8:30 p.m. 
schools” also should have said that erin 
Student-led Catholic winning short story Director Jan Ole 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Music by Women’s
gruwell’s lecture took place saturday, not 
discussion. author. Gerster will attend. Fall concert. Liturgical Choir. 
Friday. The observer regrets the errors. 


SMC hosts foreign language celebration 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
saint mary’s students shared in the native languages of six women from five different countries monday through “writing across the world,” an event sponsored by the saint mary’s english language school. 
at the event, which also marked the beginning of international week, the women translated and transcribed stu­dents’ names into their native languages. 
she designed the event to promote dialogue — in english or otherwise —  between stu­dents, Terra cowham, assis­tant director for international student scholar services at the english language school, said.
 “during international week, we want to highlight all the diversity in the internation­al students on our campus,” cowham said. “we thought it’d be really awesome if they wrote some themes or sayings while sharing their native language with us.”
 “This event begins a cultur­al festival,” ethiopian student neima mohammed said. 
mohammed’s ability to speak english fluently is a re­sult of five months of language classes from saint mary’s, she said. The center for women’s intercultural leadership of­fers a rigorous program in the english language school to non-native speakers, and cowham said the four-week program is open to anyone. 

“we have a program for any­one, [from] adult women [to] students just out of high school, if they want to come and learn english they come here, live on campus and they take classes that are non-degree but fo­cused on learning the english language,” she said. 
cowham said many women come for additional practice or instruction before they enter another college. 
“i am extremely passionate about making students global citizens and connecting the world every day,” cowham said. “i want to help all of campus see what wonderful resources we have, all the wonderful students that come here from across the world.” 
noemy siles-alvarado, a costa rican student, said she feels the strong sense of com­munity that cowham has tried to foster for international stu­dents at saint mary’s. 
“The professors are really, really good. all the girls are friendly,” she said. “i have en­joyed it, it feels like family.” 
siles-alvarado said she found 
paid adverTisemenT 
her role at the writing event amusing. 
“it’s interesting for me be­cause i’m from costa rica. it’s not that amazing and for most people it’s the same name in english as it is in spanish,” she said. “For the other girls, i think it’s really cool because they can write in their own language.” 
siles-alvarado said she chose to attend the english language school to improve her grammar before she begins pursuing a pre-medicine degree at goshen college. 
maha alshahrani, a student from saudi arabia, said she chose saint mary’s to study among pupils of her own gender and aspires to receive a master’s degree from notre dame. 
mayumi oda and misa inaba are both studying abroad from the same college in Japan, which inaba said was “kind of a sister school to saint mary’s.” This semester they live with two american roommates in le mans hall. 
oda said as much as they miss home now, when they leave they will miss saint mary’s as well. 
“it’s beautiful to communi­cate with another country’s people,” oda said. 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 

Former sec lawyer discusses ethics 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
gary  aguirre, the lawyer who “blew the whistle” on pequot capital’s illegal insider trading ac­tivity and catalyzed a 2007 investi­gation on the hedge fund, delivered a lecture monday night as the final installment of mendoza’s John a. berges lecture series in business ethics. 
at the beginning of his lec­ture, aguirre told his audience at debartolo hall to raise their hands if any of them planned to become a whistleblower. nobody did. 
“That’s the point,” aguirre said, showing pictures of edward snowden, daniel ellsberg and oth­ers who had leaked government secrets. “no one plans on becom­ing a whistleblower. it’s a choice you make when you’re faced with options.” 
aguirre, a former lawyer at the 
u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec) blew the whis­tle on his previous employer’s preferential treatment of some business executives aguirre said his first assignment with the sec involved pequot capital ceo arthur samberg. in July 2001, pequot had bought a large amount of stock in a company called heller Financial, seemingly for no reason, he said. 
at the end of that month, heller Financial was purchased by general electric, which sent its stock up and earned pequot mil­lions of dollars. The problem, aguirre said, was there was no way pequot could have known about the purchase so far in advance, a red flag for a case of insider trading. 
aguirre said his team soon found similar cases involving the hedge fund and investigated further. 
“i went to the new york stock exchange to ask about one of the cases, and they said, look, this hedge fund is being perennially referred to and perennially coming up on our radar for insider trading,” aguirre said. “we’re constantly sending referrals to the [sec]. They’re way too lucky, and there are 200 other companies that are just as lucky as them. we’re sending re­ferrals over, and nothing happens.” 
aguirre said the pequot investi­gation next needed credit suisse ceo John mack to testify. credit suisse managed heller Financial. 
mack, he said, had spoken with samberg on the phone shortly be­fore pequot started buying stock and later made $5 million in four months. aguirre said his supervi­sors at the sec were “excited” about the findings and wanted proceed with the investigation. 
Then, he said, the news hit that mack, whose testimony aguirre needed for his investigation, was about to become ceo of morgan stanley, one of the biggest financial firms in the world. mack suddenly had too much “political clout” to be investigated, aguirre said. 
“There was a phone call [that] came one week after i got the case elevated to a criminal case,” he said. “... within a few days, the word came down that there would be no testimony coming from John mack. he was off bounds.” 
aguirre said he expressed his concerns about mack’s preferen­tial treatment to several supervi­sors and was eventually told to go on vacation. before he came back, aguirre received word he had been fired. 
aguirre said he decided to go to the u. s. senate with some records from his investigations and evi­dence against pequot and the sec. as he worked on his report, he said the sec threatened him with crim­inal prosecution, attacked his char­acter in the media, sued him and opened their own investigations, saying he had acted outside the law. 
“This is the government striking back at a whistleblower,” aguirre said. “[in] my situation, i was a lawyer, i was a smart lawyer, i was an experienced lawyer, and when i became a whistleblower, i stayed within what i perceived to be the law.” 
spearheaded by senator charles grassley, two senate committees investigated the issue and subpoe­naed several high-ranking sec of­ficials, he said. after 18 months of hearings, in august 2007 the senate sided with aguirre, saying the sec had fired him improperly and giv­en preferential treatment to mack. 
aguirre said while the ruling was important, the sec had missed its chance to get mack to testify and “squandered” an opportunity for meaningful reform. because he still wanted to pursue his investiga­tion of pequot, aguirre requested the rest of the sec records under the Freedom of information act. Those, along with a series of anony­mous phone calls and emails prov­ing that insider trading occurred in a similar case involving microsoft stock, confirmed in 2009 that pequot had broken the law. 
aguirre said his subsequent letter to the sec prompted it to reopen its own investigation, leading to a $28 million settlement with pequot, which then closed down. 
“mine was, in a sense, a happy story,” aguirre said. “it was five years, [and] it was at times an­guishing to think the government is coming after me, to know that you’ve done nothing illegal, that in fact, it’s the government that’s illegal ... and yet the government felt comfortable in threatening prosecution.” 
aguirre, who now represents other whistleblowers, said his de­cision to become one was not a big choice, but a “series of small deci­sions” that built up. 
“i wouldn’t have raised my hand either,” aguirre said, referring to his opening remarks. “you face these moments where you are either a part of it or you’re not ... i took an oath at the sec to enforce securi­ties laws without that kind of bias.” 
Contact Emily McConville at  emcconv@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Mayor 
conTinued From page 1 
issue … it was the easiest election i had.” Freeman-wilson said she wanted to talk about her fail­
“[Women] always want to find a win-win … we want everybody to be okay with the resolution, where they feel comfortable with it, and that’s not always the case with men.” 
Karen Freeman-Wilson 
mayor                                               
Gary, Ind. 
ures because it’s something that few leaders highlight. she learned that it’s important to show people how much you care. 
“people don’t care how much you know, until they know how much you care,” she said. “without fail, i be­lieved i had the best creden­tials in the races that i lost, but it was only when i became a caregiver that realized the importance of compassion in leadership.” 
Freeman-wilson said af­ter her mother suffered from multiple strokes their rela­tionship was changed and her mother depended on her for care. This experience taught Freeman-wilson the impor­tance of service especially in public office. 
“[public service] means that in every decision you that you make, when you have been given the public trust, that you make it with the people in mind,” she said. “i know that every time i make a decision it isn’t always the right one, because none of us are infal­lible, but what i can tell [the public] … is that every time i make a decision it is for the right reason, [and] i can walk you through my thinking as to why i thought that decision is in the best interest of the majority of the city.” 
perseverance, patience and good teamwork are important qualities all leaders should possess, Freeman-wilson said. however, she said work­ing together as a team will get students further than any in­dividual effort. 
“at the end of the day, it’s not about you,” she said. “it’s not about us as individuals, but it’s about what our legacy is and what our service is. 

“it’s been said that service is the rent that we pay for our time on earth and i believe that.” 
Freeman-wilson said wom­en have a unique quality that lends itself to  leadership. 
“[women] always want to find a win-win … we want everybody to be okay with the resolution, where they feel comfortable with it, and that’s not always the case with men,” she said. 
being comfortable with re­sponsibility and authority are important in leadership Freeman-wilson said. she urged students to be confi­dent in themselves and rec­ognize the importance of their own leadership skills. 
“i’m counting on you all to continue the effort that we started and the only way you can do that is if [leaders] set an example,” she said. 
Freeman-wilson said she hopes that her work as mayor is setting that standard for what citizens of gary should expect from their public servants. 
“i understand there is a gen­eration behind me that can do better than me,” Freeman­wilson said. “and i’m cool with that.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Toronto mayor’s power stripped 
Associated Press 

amid cries of "shame! shame!" scandal-plagued Toronto mayor rob Ford was stripped of the last of his mean­ingful powers monday after a heated city council debate in which he argued with members of the public, charged hecklers and knocked a councilwoman down. 
Ford called the move a "coup d'etat" and vowed an "outright war" in next year's mayoral election. 
"what's happening here to­day is not a democratic process, it's a dictatorship process," the 44-year-old mayor declared. 
The council lacks the power to remove Ford from office un­less he is convicted of a crime. instead, members sought the strongest recourse available af­ter recent revelations that Ford smoked crack cocaine and was drunk at public events. 
Ford later said in a Tv interview monday night on the canadian broadcasting corp. that he was "finished" with alcohol, acknowledging that his drink­ing had resulted in "excessive, stupid, immature behavior." 
earlier monday, the council voted overwhelmingly in favor of slashing Ford's office budget by 60 percent and allowing his staff to move to the deputy mayor, who now takes on many of the mayor's former powers. Ford now effectively has no legislative power and no longer chairs the executive committee, although he retains his title and ability to represent Toronto at official functions. 
The debate became raucous after Ford paced around the council chamber and traded barbs with members of the pub­
lic. The speaker asked security to clear the gallery and a recess was called, but not before Ford barreled toward his detractors, mowing into councilor pam mcconnell. 
another councilor asked Ford to apologize. Ford said he was rushing to the defense of his brother, councilor doug Ford, and accidentally knocked mcconnell down. 
"i picked her up," he said. "i ran around because i thought my brother was getting into an altercation." 
paid adverTisemenT 




Ranking 
conTinued From page 1 
intercultural and spiritual formation of our students; enrich their global and cul­tural awareness and help to develop engaged citizens in our increasingly intercon­nected and interdependent world.” 
Junior Kate Friedli said she chose to study abroad in the united Kingdom during the past summer for a variety of reasons. 
“i think more and more people are going abroad for two reasons,” she said. “First, it’s incredibly fun. second, you have the opportunity to learn things you wouldn’t in a normal, domestic class.” 
Friedli said her favorite part of the experience was forming friendships with the other notre dame students in her program. 
“what i found most re­warding about studying abroad was the people,” Friedli said. “The people from notre dame who i went abroad to london with will be my lifelong friends, and my interactions with true londoners were very re­warding and fun.” 
Junior sara reyes also said studying abroad offered an opportunity to branch out and meet notre dame stu­dents she has yet to interact with on campus. 
“studying abroad is the perfect medium to get out of your comfort zone,” reyes said. “it was a great experi­ence for me because i met a lot of notre dame students that i may never have had the pleasure of being friends with had i not met them dur­ing my time abroad.” 
Junior Katharine maheras said she valued the opportu­nity to experience new cul­tures with other notre dame students who share a similar background to hers. 
“i not only got to have a new cultural experience but also was able to strengthen friendships with notre dame students through doing so,” maheras said. 
Junior Kevin mcmannis said by offering study abroad programs over the summer, notre dame international allows even more students to take advantage of the oppor­tunity to study in a foreign country. 

“The summer abroad let me experience new and dif­ferent parts of my notre dame and college career without missing a semester on this amazing campus,” he said. 
“i got to branch out of my dorm, live with six guys i 
“What I found most rewarding about studying abroad was the people. The people from Notre Dame who I went abroad to London with will be my lifelong friends, and my interactions with true Londoners were very rewarding and fun.” 
Kate Friedli 
junior 

didn’t know before and meet other amazing people.” 
living in a metropoli­tan city and absorbing the culture were highlights of the summer program, mcmannis said. 
“london’s city life and culture was one of the most amazing experiences i’ve had so far, and i am super blessed to have been able to spend it with my college friends, new and old,” he said. 
notre dame boasts more than 40 international study programs in more than 20 nations, including australia, brazil, chile, china, France, germany, greece, ireland, israel, italy, Japan, Jordan, mexico, russia, senegal, south Korea, singapore, switzerland, uganda and the u.K., along with a domes­tic program in washington, d.c. 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

Monks 
conTinued From page 1 

the ways our religious tra­ditions, spiritualities and philosophies of caring help sustain anyone involved in helping work.” 
The event at notre dame marks the end of the monks’ seven-month tour around the united states, a trip aimed at raising aware­ness of their culture and money for their monastery. vachon said the goal of this week’s event is not conver­sion but rather to catalyze people’s thought processes on compassion. 
“we want all people to think about ‘how am i com­passionate’ and ‘how can i be more compassionate, how is my religion making me more compassionate?’” he said. “notre dame is very committed to the mission of connecting with other faiths internationally, and i think it enriches all of our religious lives when we in­teract with other religions. my own catholicism is deepened by learning from [buddhism].” 
Tenpa phuntsok, one of the monks in the group, said the main goals from their point of view are to preserve their culture, to raise funds for the monastery and to share what they’ve learned from the mandala-building process. 
“The word ‘manda­la’ means ‘circle’ in the sanskrit language, which means harmony,” he said. “we are making a mandala for the people here so they can understand what it is and what it means.” 
The notre dame iteration is a peace sand mandala, which is a specific type with its own design and col­ors, phuntsok said. his faith holds that all phenomena are interdependent, and he said he believes medicine and healing depend very much on the ideas within this particular mandala. 

in a closing ceremony at 
4:30 p.m. Thursday, the art will be dismantled and a portion of the sand will be given to guests. phuntsok said some of the sand will also be released into a riv­er, according to their faith tradition. 
“it takes a lot of time and effort to create that beauti­ful mandala, so when we’re done we’ll dismantle it and put it into a river with many things in it, like fish,” he said. “The mandala has been blessed and so we bless the river by putting the sand into it so the fish can be blessed and be re­born like human beings.” 
more broadly, decon­structing the mandala helps convey a message about the impermanence of the mate­rial world, he said. 
“we dismantle the man­dala because of the im­permanence of nature, but not to scare people about life being impermanent,” phuntsok said. “we do it to understand the natural law and to appreciate that law and our own imperma­nence, not to ignore it but to understand that all life is born and aging and ending. 
“This sand mandala is very beautiful art, but you have to dismantle and de­stroy it because everything is impermanent.” 
phuntsok said his family is Tibetan in origin but he is one of about 120 monks in the monastery in india. 
“some of the older monks are from Tibet and many of the young ones are from india,” he said. “some are orphans, some are poor. we come here to raise funds.” 
notre  dame’s  ruth  m.  
hillebrand  center  for  
compassionate  care  in  
medicine,  the  college  of  

science and harper cancer 
research institute have partnered to sponsor the group, with collaboration also from the department of art, art history and design; the Kroc institute for international peace studies; the notre dame institute for advanced stories; the office of information Technologies and the snite museum of art. 
vachon said the different sponsors of the event each have different reasons for becoming involved, but the enthusiasm at notre dame has been “amazing and wonderfully supportive.” 
“arjia rinpoche is not at the monastery, but he is a very respected buddhist teacher in bloomington,” vachon said. “The harper cancer research institute was interested because he’s raising money in bloomington for a chil­dren’s cancer hospital in mongolia, and they want to develop a relationship with that hospital.” 
The department of art, art history and design became involved based on their interest in the 1,000-year-old art, as did the snite museum of art, he said. The Kroc and notre dame institutes partici­pated because of the event’s cultural exchange value, and the college of science because of their interest in promoting appreciation for worldwide diversity. 
The monks will speak wednesday night at 7 p.m. in 102 debartolo hall on “The power and practice of compassion: Taking in harshness and giving out Kindness.” The construc­tion of the mandala is being filmed and streamed live by oiT via the college of science website. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo@nd.edu 


“Girls” stands out 
Meg Handelman 
news writer 

This summer, i embarked on the ul­timate rite of passage for generation y: i started watching “girls.” i was hooked from the first episode, which chronicles life of the main character, hannah, as she is cut off by her parents and forced into the reality of providing for herself. while so many television shows set an unreachable standard of how we should look/feel/act/dress/live, “girls” stands apart by offering an accurate portrayal of our generation. 
why is “girls” so good? because it’s so real. lena dunham, the writer, creator and producer of the hbo com­edy, focuses on the good, bad and ugly of friendships between women in their twenties. her decision to em­phasize the dynamic between strong female characters brought a refreshing change from the plethora of programs that focus on standard male-female relationships. 
The series chronicles the lives of four recent college graduates living in brooklyn heights. dunham plays hannah, the self-centered, wannabe writer. Then there is marnie, the up­tight planner, Jessa, the free spirit, and shoshanna, the naïve 22-year-old virgin. 
dunham dives into the complexity of an all-female group dynamic head-on, depicting the intricate tensions, jealousies and anxieties that arise be­tween girl friends. she highlights the lonely transition into adulthood and is not afraid to address embarrassing emotional, sexual and personal reali­ties of a twenty-something girl that hollywood rarely addresses. 
storylines comprised of roommate troubles, jealousy between friends stemming from success at work, judg­ments about each other’s love lives and the fundamental support that they provide each other day-in and day-out are unnervingly relatable. Twenty-something women share strong con­nections with their best friends, and these intimacies come alive with each storyline on “girls.” 
“girls”’ realistic portrayal stands out against aspirational programs that glamorize female friendships as pla­tonic and easy (the obvious one being sex and the city). The relationships between the four main characters on “girls” are relatable precisely because they are difficult and troubled. 
it doesn’t hurt that dunham’s snarky humor and courageousness to talk about anything and everything adds endless entertainment value to the show. For these reasons, i will be eager­ly awaiting the season three premiere this January. 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Christian Nofziger 
ask the greenman 
every year, as Thanksgiving rolls around, i get a little sappy — in the tree as well as the emotional sense. i can’t help but marvel at all there is around me to be thankful for and appreciate. i live on a beautiful and wondrous planet. i have a warm and welcoming family to celebrate with (let me tell you that greenmom’s tofurkey is a pure delight). and, i have loyal readers like you with whom to share my thoughts and dreams. 
as you all get ready for the seasonal migration back to your family and friends, take a look around your dorm room. are there things you aren’t re­ally using or that would be better en­joyed by a friend, sibling or relative? i know i’ve already packed up a beach ball and pom-poms for my sister and a Frisbee for greendog just from what i have in my room. when you get home, i challenge you to take a serious look at the inventory of stuff you have in your room, the basement or the attic. do you need everything you have? would you be able to give an underused/un­derappreciated item new life by giving it to someone else? 

There are some great alternatives to flocking to stores in the wee-hours the morning after Thanksgiving, often adopting a “get out of my way or get run over by this cart” mentality in the hopes of snagging a discounted ipad air. as stores challenge each other to open earlier and earlier (some even opening on Thanksgiving) in order to provide opportunities for sales and big savings, take a step back and think about all the more rewarding ways you could be spending your day off. 
on black Friday, cars are on the road earlier than they would be on a normal day and stores are open hours earlier than usual. some stores don’t even close, and the amount of print adver­tising sent out in preparation for this event is jaw dropping. we’ve all heard that the 17 percent of the world’s popu­lation that lives here in the united states consumes nearly 80 percent of the world’s resources, but it’s pretty scary to see it happening before your eyes. 
so before you pack a snack to eat at 
4:30 a.m. in a box-store parking lot, think about how grateful the planet would be if we all slept in, ate leftovers and had a gift making party on Friday instead. you know that reindeer sweat­er grandma made you six years ago that you’ve never removed from the box? repurpose it into a throw pillow that will surely start a conversation on your futon, or even get more cre­ative and make it into coasters (really, google it). 
i challenge you — instead of shop­ping on black Friday — to extend your Thanksgiving celebration with your friends, family and loved ones by con­tinuing to spend time together. be an active participant in the “buy nothing day” movement and buy absolutely nothing the Friday after Thanksgiving. shop for gifts in your own closet or at resale shops and give new purpose to items that would otherwise be lifeless in a cabinet. and, if you can’t think of a way to repurpose something, drop it off at a local goodwill or salvation army and they’ll do it for you. 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

an important clarification 
First, thank you to ms. castaneda for covering the lecture hosted by st. mary’s on nov. 12, Transgender 101. her article (“lecture presents transgender issues,” nov. 13) highlights many of the difficulties faced by transgender people. There is one point, though, that needs clarification. 
ms. buell’s quotation at the end of the article is truncated and thus the context of her final statement is missing. at the talk, she was clear to say that “being transgender is not an easy way to go through life,” but that accepting this facet of your identity (here i paraphrase her words) is a choice. The choice 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“For the great mass of mankind, the only saving grace needed is a steady fidelity to what is nearest to hand and heart for the short moment of each human effort.” 
Joseph Conrad 
novelist 

lies in how a person deals with this aspect of themselves, not in having a transgender identity itself. given the amount of discrimination and suffering that transgender people can face, it’s important to understand that being transgender is no more a choice than being cisgender is. 
Abigail Palko 

director of undergraduate studies gender studies program nov. 18 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The commercialization of the holiday season 
Carter Boyd 
god, country, notre dame 

it has already started. many people are starting to play christmas music again, and some never even turned it off from last year. as Thanksgiving ap­proaches, christmas lights, ornaments, trees and decorations are popping up in dorms on campus and in towns across the country. it’s only november and people apparently are already looking forward to the date commemorating the birth of Jesus christ. 
This in essence seems to be the problem. a growing number of people seem to look forward to christmas for the food, the gifts and social parties rather than because of a deep-rooted appreciation of the real reason for the season. The commercial materialism that has absorbed the american holiday season has gotten to the point of no return. but with society’s expectations, what do we honestly expect?  we chase that almighty dollar by keeping stores open all hours of the night, even on Thanksgiving day.  but has our economy pushed us into these decisions, or is that an excuse by the retailers? 
last week, with the release of the play station 4, many parents drove to the store and obtained gifts for santa claus to bring on christmas morning. and for those parents waiting to actually shop in december, they can forget about purchasing the most coveted gifts for their children. This trend will only get worse as commercial materialism continues dur­ing the holiday season. 
The development of this commercial materialism has degraded, if not destroyed, much of the value of one secular holiday and another liturgical season. 
The secular holiday, Thanksgiving, is often affected in the hustle and bustle to get ready for dec. 25th. of course, Thanksgiving does have religious roots, with tradition often traced back to early pilgrims in the new land. it was also a day of Thanksgiving that was publically upheld by president george washington, who proclaimed the day as a way for americans to “acknowledge the providence of the almighty god, to obey his will, to be grateful for his benefits.” This tradition continued annually with deep roots in re­ligious thought until twentieth-century, politically-correct america removed these roots and declared Thanksgiving a secular holiday that would occur annually on the fourth Thursday of november. 
Thanksgiving exists today as a secular holiday, but many believers still take this time to give thanks to god for his blessings on this day. non-believers and believers alike can share in the day’s spirit of solidar­ity as Thanksgiving still grants us a time to reflect on our blessings, living in america with liberty and justice for all. i am sure many of us have fond memo­ries of Thanksgiving dinners with family and friends when we were younger. attending mass has always been a part of my family’s Thanksgiving day. 
it is also rather odd that the excessive commercial­ism of a religious holiday, christmas, inhibits us from properly celebrating a secular holiday, Thanksgiving. black Friday, a day of shopping for deals with stores opening in the early hours of the morning, brings all the materialism of christmas without the real reason for the season. but where should it all begin and end? do we even know? maybe the buying and selling is not really the problem, but rather our focus should be on each person’s level of responsibility and sincerity in giving. it is important for catholics in particular to remember the true meaning of the season. 
For catholics, the excessive commercialism of christmas and the christmas season has also strongly degraded the liturgical season of advent, a time of waiting in hopeful expectation for the coming of christ Jesus the messiah, lord god in­carnate. Technically, the christmas season begins on christmas itself and continues for the following eleven days, commemorated in popular culture by the song “The Twelve days of christmas.” it seems that the secularized american retailers and shops are ready to start the after-christmas sales already on dec. 26. 
with a materialistic christmas, we have to obtain and receive first before we can give, but in the true spirit of christmas, we should first give (what we already have, talents or time volunteering) and then later receive (blessings and love in return). The most important quality of giving a gift is that it comes from our hearts unconditionally and without expectation. 
as we progress further into november, let us first celebrate with friends and family what we have to be thankful for before we enter the advent season, so that we can properly prepare for the celebration of the birth of the savior of the world on christmas. let us somehow try to maintain a good balance, a balance in which we can prepare for the lord in a loving, joyful and thankful way. continue the spirit of true generosity and compassion. Kindle the fire at Thanksgiving, building it into the season of advent. 
Carter Boyd is a sophomore studying science-busi­ness. He can be reached at cboyd1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
minimum wage and the fast food fight 
Shaaya Ellis 
reason will prevail 

all across american, fast food workers have mounted a campaign to demand a so-called living wage. workers fed up with low wages in the fast food industry from durham, nc. to san diego, ca. and new york city, ny. all share one common goal: To have their wage increased to $15 per hour. Fast food workers believe they are entitled to higher wages because the companies they work for make billions of dollars in profit. This might seem like a practical argument for fast food workers to make, but they miss one key ingredient in doing so. if you pay people for what they are worth as opposed to what they need, then clearly they would get a better job if their work were worth more than what they were currently being paid. it’s simple economics. 
The issue is that the fast food workers are ob­jecting to the operation of basically a classic case of supply and demand. if one has little to no education, fast food jobs can often be all an in­dividual can get. These individuals are thus eas­ily replaceable and consequently will not be paid well. however, if one becomes a doctor or lawyer, acquiring a specialized skill as a result of years in school, then they are not easily replaceable and will be substantially economically rewarded. if a fast food worker thinks that they are entitled to more money then they should simply seek to ac­quire skills that will merit a higher wage. it is very counter-intuitive to burden american businesses with individuals’ indolence towards working hard and by demands for unearned and unrealistic wage increases.  
it is not incumbent upon business to simply dole out more money to people who either did not earn it or whose work does not merit that distinction. The amount a company can pay its employees is a function of the productivity of its business model and the productivity of its employees. To assume that companies can pay much more than they al­ready are paying their employees in wages is pure magical thinking, a prevailing trait among workers in the fast food industry as evidenced by their in­sistence on higher wages for menial work. 
it is highly unlikely that anyone will pay for a fast food item whose price is inflated enough to cover a $15-an-hour workforce. even if a business tries to pay that much and charges more to offset the costs of those wages, they will likely face bankruptcy, thus leading to an erosion of jobs and massive un­employment. likewise, with today’s market, with unemployment at a persistent seven percent and with millions of americans looking for a job, there will no doubt be someone who will be willing to work for less that $15 an hour. 
Those advocating for a high wage in the fast food industry would have the american people believe that these workers are being disadvantaged some­how while being paid so little. according to the census bureau, 80 percent of poor households have air conditioning. more importantly, 92 percent of poor households have a microwave. Two-thirds have at least one dvd player and nearly 75 percent have a car or truck. 31 percent have two or more cars or trucks. with this in mind, clearly those that work in the fast food industry and who are con­sidered to be “living in poverty” have substantial means. 
most americans enter the labor market through low entry jobs such as fast food positions that pay minimum wage. as a result of having little experi­ence in the labor force, young people make up a significant percentage of low, entry-level work­ers. however, when a price floor is set, it is young people — those benefited by such entry-level posi­tions — who are often priced out of the market, thus leading to higher youth unemployment. not only have young people lost what they could have earned with a low paying job, but they also lost the opportunity to work their way up from the bottom, which would in turn lead to experience necessitat­ing a higher wage. 
when the minimum wage is raised, businesses cannot afford to hire as many new employees. while some workers benefit as a result of the in­creased wages, many do not fair as well. as a result of the government increasing wages, companies are forced to lay off workers or to make them work part-time. in addition to this, many companies are finding new and innovative ways to deliver the best possible produce while reducing costs. with such technological advances, many minimum wage-workers, specifically fast food workers, will face displacement. The best remedy to this problematic conflict, to fast food workers who are protesting against their employers, is for them to simply ac­quire skills that will merit the wages they want to be paid. protesting and rioting for higher wages is often done in vain, especially for a job as menial as burger flipping. 
Shaaya Ellis is a junior political science major with a classics minor. He can be contacted at sellis2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

it is the long-overdue end of an era. in a move that sur­prised no one, save for those of us who were not even aware that blockbuster was actually still in business, the once-great giant of the home video industry an­nounced that it would be closing its last 300 u.s. stores earlier this month. 
This final shutdown comes after a steady, precipitous decline since the company’s peak back in 2004, when it had over 9,000 stores and 60,000 employees. since then, blockbuster has been through many tough times, even filing for bankruptcy in 2010 and subsequently being taken over by dish network. 
nov. 9 was the final day customers could pick up a movie from the rental chain. in an incredibly bizarre development, the final movie rented from blockbuster overall was “This is the end,” the apocalyptic comedy starring seth rogen, Jonah hill, James Franco and a plethora of other stars. either it’s an astounding coin­cidence that blockbuster’s last rental was a story about the end of the world or that customer has a cruel sense of humor. 
perhaps blockbuster deserved such an unremarkable death. after all, it did manage to ruthlessly shut down al­most every single mom-and-pop video store in america 
By ERIN THOMASSEN 
scene writer 

last saturday night, eager students packed the carey auditorium in hesburgh library to see notre dame’s var­ious a capella groups perform. students sat in the aisles and stood in the back rather than miss the a capella Fest hosted by halftime, notre dame’s “premiere co-ed a ca­pella group.” 
The undertones, a select group of dashing young men from glee club, performed first. This charming en­semble set the tone for the evening, with soloists more fit for american idol than a college a capella group. The undertones performed classic tunes that have been in their repertoire since the 90’s, though the material seemed fresh with their improvised choreography. The girls sighed in disappointment when one of the emcees for the evening joked that every member of the club was married. 
next up was harmonia, notre dame’s entirely female a capella. The girls were dressed à la pitch perfect, with pearl necklaces and pearly white smiles. They step-touched and bopped their hearts out, but the audience seemed to feel that the group was not as comfortable on stage as the undertones were. Their numbers were well singlehandedly.  blockbuster’s demise, for the most part, was brought upon itself by failing to keep up with the times. it seems that the video store titan practically ignored the rise of competitive streaming services like netflix and amazon instant video, certain that people would always be happy paying tragically high late fees. 
netflix managed to revolutionize the video industry in ways that blockbuster could have never imagined. The initial offering of dvds through the mail was sim­ply outstanding. who wouldn’t enjoy the ability to rent dvds without ever having to leave their own home? and their movie offering was just simply better than what one could find at their local blockbuster. plus, the lack of late fees was every lazy customer’s dream. but then netflix absolutely blew everything out of the water with the introduction of their streaming service and the promises of unlimited movies and shows whenever you want. you would have been lucky to find all of the discs for just one season of a show at blockbuster. 
despite all of netflix’s increasing success, blockbuster did next to nothing in order to fight back against com­petition in an industry in which it was at one point the only player. sure, they tried to introduce automatic rental kiosks, but redbox was already light-years ahead of them in that realm and even managed to do it with­out late fees. netflix even offered to sell themselves to blockbuster at one point for only $50 million. The 
rehearsed, but their repertoire was challenging because their pieces were set in high keys. while the girls clearly had vocal talent, they did not have the undertones’ stage presence. 
unchained melodies, notre dame’s sole christian a capella group, came next. Freshman scott moore nailed his solo in “baba yetu,” tackling the challenging african lyrics with his powerful voice. The group performed a version of “This i promise you,” explaining that the love Justin Timberlake expresses in the song is comparable to the love god has for his people. amanda ly, a senior who co-directs the group, said, “being the only christian a capella group really allows us to focus on living out the gospel and sharing the light of christ through music without worrying about having compete with another of the same genre.” 
The group sings at nursing homes, elementary and middle schools and Theology club events. it is clear that the group wants their music to be a ministry, not just entertainment. 
bellacapella hit the stage next, literally. They stomped their feet in perfect unison, proving that they could not only sing, but dance. with their exaggerated dance moves, they showed their collective confidence and hu­mor. unlike the other groups, bellacapella had multiple dinosaur of a company refused the offer, however, con­fident that things would never change. 
The changes in the home entertainment industry have been absolutely wonderful for the consumer, for the most part. while i absolutely love binge-watching all of my favorite shows for days on end, there is a cer­tain something lacking in the experience. blockbuster actually managed to be a sort of social experience, a chance to get out of the house for a while on a quest to find something new. browsing through the shelves, hoping to find the newest superhero movie, but ending up going home with a cheesy 80’s horror movie that you knew you were going to hate was a special kind of inter­action with the outside world, a kind that future genera­tions are never going to understand. should all of this be left behind? 
perhaps so. perhaps there is no going back. perhaps streaming is simply the way of the future, the way en­tertainment was meant to be viewed. or maybe not. nostalgia always has a way of kicking back in, and may­be one day communities will band together to support local video stores again, where more classic and hard­to-find titles could be found. until that day comes, it looks like we’re going to be spending a great deal of time in the dark, binge-streaming our shows. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
girls sing duets throughout their slower songs instead of having one soloist perform the entire piece. so, the au­dience was engaged during their set, because they were constantly listening to a new voice. This staging technique also demonstrated the talent of the entire group, because almost every member was showcased in some way. 
next, the echoes, notre dame’s newest a capella group, surprised the crowd with a cherished disney melody. as soon as the crowd realized they were singing “be our guest,” they started clapping. The soloist in “be our guest” had a surprisingly convincing French accent, and those who sang “i’ll make a man out of you” paid trib­ute to shang from mulan by executing some of his power moves. 
closing up the show was halftime, dressed in black, white and royal blue. The crowd swayed along to their ren­dition of “brown-eyed girl” and couldn’t help but enjoy one of their middle school favorites, “shut up and drive.” The ensemble was extremely well put together in regards to dress, choreography, and voice. They deserve kudos for successfully planning and publicizing the event. The great turnout suggests that notre dame students may love a capella as much as they love free food and football. 
Contact Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Maddie Daly 
scene writer 

Just in case fans aren’t quite satisfied with nine entire seasons of the hit cbs show “how i met your mother,” creator carter bays has just confirmed the rumors about a spin-off series, “how i met your dad.” This new series will follow the same outline as the orig­inal, only it will be told from a female perspective.  The mother presumably will be talking to her kids, telling them the long and detailed tale of how she met their father.  if it’s anything like “himym,” it will take her approximately eight years to complete. 
details on the new show have yet to be released, but bays did announce that none of the characters from the original show will appear on the spin-off, except for in random cameo appearances.  he also included that the new characters will not hang out at maclaren’s bar in new york like before; they will establish their own signature meeting place so as not to infringe on the classic tradition.  
i would just like to ask mr. bays when he has ever seen 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 

with all the indie music we write about in scene, some­times i feel like film, especially indie film, gets the short end of the stick. but for every weird indie band whose al­bum we give five shamrocks because we know you’ve al­most definitely never heard of it and therefore can’t tell us we’re wrong, there’s an indie movie with which we could do just the same thing. if you want to start getting into in­dependent film and are looking for some good options to get started with, this list of recent indie films isn’t too bad a place to begin. 
“Primer” (2004) / “Upstream Color” (2013) 
For a lot of independent films, the experience of watching the film comes as much from the story behind the scenes of making the movie as the plot itself. “Tiny Furniture” was lena dunham’s 2010 feature film writing, directing and acting debut, and it’s a film that draws fans and attention now not just as an enjoyable and celebrated independent film, but also as the work that launched her into the main­stream as it gave her the opportunity to make hbo’s “girls.” 
The same can be said for “primer” and “upstream color,” a spin-off series become even remotely as successful as its predecessor.  granted, “grey’s anatomy” spin-off “private practice” is still airing, but i know exactly one person who still watches the show.  The spin-off of “Friends,” “Joey,” garnered a negative fan reaction and has been long since forgotten.  even “The office” tried a spin-off that failed after one episode.  even though it wasn’t a Tv show, the sequel to “mean girls” was quite honestly the most terrible idea on the planet.  it didn’t even make it to theaters — it was that bad. 
The bottom line is, spin-offs are never a good idea. no matter how hard it is to let go of a beloved series after so many years, everything eventually must come to an end.  reruns will also be popular late night en­tertainment, so the show itself will never fully die out. especially when the spin-off idea is the mirror image of the original and doesn’t have any of the same char­acters, how many viewers are really going to tune in for more than the pilot episode?  i think carter bays just has separation issues; he has been working on this show since 2005 and is struggling to let it go. 
Quite simply, nothing will ever live up to the icon­ic series that is “how i met your mother.”  especially 
both films written by, directed by, edited by, produced by, scored by and starring shane carruth, a former software engineer who just decided one day to start making films all by himself. 
“primer” is a complicated story of time travel, hailed by many critics as the best ever film depiction of the concept. it’s a mind-bending thriller from start to finish and was made for a reported budget of $7,000. “upstream color” is a much stranger film, and one that i saw in an art-house theater in new york with an audience of just me and what looked to be a homeless man. it deals with identity and il­lusion in bizarre and fascinating ways that leaves much for discussion after the credits roll. 
“Animal Kingdom” (2010) 

david michod’s crime drama “animal Kingdom” isn’t just an independent film, it’s foreign, too ¾ the film was made in australia. The film stars some recognizable faces from hollywood cinema, including Joel edgerton (“The great gatsby,” “warrior”) and guy pearce (“memento,” “l.a. confidential”), but has a distinctly australian feel. The story follows a dysfunctional crime family in melbourne, australia, after the youngest member, a 17-year-old high school boy, is forced to move in with his estranged keeping in mind how awful season nine has been so far compared to the previous eight, i doubt the writers will be able to come up with much fresh and funny materi­al.  i can already see the first pilot episode of “himyd” (that just looks wrong), with clichés left and right and attempts to reference the original, which will make no sense because the cast will be completely new. and if they try to have a replacement barney who attempts to be equally suave and suited-up, i will consider start­ing a protest.  no one can play barney like neil patrick harris. 
The future cast has some large shoes to fill; fans of the show have formed such a bond with each character that any attempt to replicate them will feel contrived and sub-par.  The team would have to work a miracle in order to impress me with their new series.  and lastly, if it’s really a parallel show, why isn’t it called “how i met your Father?” mistake number one out of many, i am sure. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
grandmother and uncles after his mother dies of a drug overdose. The film is undoubtedly dark and ultimately not really uplifting at all, but it is a fascinating, car-crash-like look at the rapid decline of a family and a young man as their lifestyles combine. 
“Pi” (1998) 

harvard-educated darren aronofsky showed off his smarts in his feature film-directing debut, “pi.” The direc­tor would goes on to win great acclaim for films like “The wrestler” and “black swan,” as well as scaring a genera­tion of teenagers away from heroin with “requiem for a dream,” but his first film was a grainy, black and white mathematical and psychological thriller. a number theo­rist who believes everything in nature can be explained through numbers accidentally discovers a pattern based on a random 216-digit number, leading to obsession, para­noia and a number of intense encounters with hasidic Jews and mysterious wall street agents. as with most indie films, the film remains ambiguous and full of enigma, but the thriller is as exciting as any in the last decade of hollywood films. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The 100-point “player” 

Matthew DeFranks 
assistant managing editor 
i have never scored 109 points. actually, i’ve never scored any points. 
i never played on a basket­ball team in grade school, in high school and definitely not in college. so maybe Jack Taylor is a little better at bas­ketball than me. 
but can we even call what Taylor plays basketball? 
in case you have not heard, Taylor has once again reached the 100-point mark in a game. This time, he dropped 109 points for division-iii grinnell in a 173­123 victory over crossroads on sunday. 
almost exactly a year ago, he poured in an ncaa­record 138 points in a 179­104 win over Faith baptist bible. Taylor also set records for field goals made (52), field goals attempted (108), 3-pointers made (27) and 3-pointers attempted (71) a year ago. 
“What Arseneault and the rest of the Grinnell team are masquerading as basketball, would make James Naismith roll over in his grave...” 
but he also had zero as­sists, six turnovers and unreachable amounts of self­ishness while his teammates attempted just 28 total field goals. That’s right, the rest of his team had one more field goal attempt than Taylor had 3-pointers made. 
but on sunday, it appeared that Taylor learned to share the ball a little more. 
in this year’s 100-point performance, Taylor was 35-for-70 from the field, 24-for-48 from behind the arc and 15 of 17 at the free-throw line. To put his sunday stats in perspective, he had as many attempts as notre dame had points on the same day (70). 
wait, you mean he only needed 70 shots to reach triple-digits and not 108 shots to reach triple-digits? That right there is maturity, self-sacrifice and efficiency. he even had two assists and four rebounds. what a well-rounded player that Jack Taylor is. 
except that none of his stats really matter. 
grinnell won sunday’s game by 50 points against a school whose name sounds like a bad country band. so naturally, the pioneers took all of their starters out early to show some form of mercy, right? wrong. 
Taylor stayed in the game until there was 5:32 left in the second half and grinnell up by only 60 points. and, oh yeah, Taylor attempted a 3-pointer three seconds be­fore leaving the game, even with a fairly sizeable lead. 
but it’s not Taylor’s fault that coach david arseneault left him in the game late. but he was part of the squad that gave up 123 points to a team that is 0-9 this season. The Knights came into the game averaging less than 79 points per game but managed to put up 44 more points on a grinnell team that was just interested in chasing stats. 
so can we call what Taylor plays basketball? no. 
basketball has passing and ball movement. 
Taylor has 37 career assists, and 20 career rebounds. 
basketball has defense. 
what arseneault and the rest of the grinnell team are masquerading as basketball, would make James naismith roll over in his grave and knock the next Taylor shot into the 15th row of the gym. 
it would be the first form of defense Taylor has ever en­countered — which would be one more than me. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Michigan State moves to No.1 in AP poll 
Associated Press 

easT lansing, mich. — michigan state is no. 1 in The associated press’ college bas­ketball poll for the first time in 13 years. 
The spartans were The ap’s top-ranked team for two weeks during the 2000-01 season — the year after coach Tom izzo helped the program win its sec­ond national title — and twice in the 1978-79 season when the earvin “magic” Johnson-led team went on to claim the ncaa championship. 
“i think it’s a privilege,” izzo told The ap on monday, sev­eral hours before michigan state hosted portland. “if we handle it well, we’ll see how long we can hang on. and if we don’t, we’ll learn something from that. we don’t get a ban­ner or a ring for this, but it’s good for our program. it’s also good for the guys on this team to add to their collection of accomplishments.” 
The spartans were easily no. 1 with 51 first-place votes from the 65-member national media panel. The spartans earned the top spot by beating then­top-ranked Kentucky last week 78-74 in chicago in the earliest matchup of the top two teams in the country. 
“we’ve been in the top five a lot, but we haven’t won a big game early quite like we did last week,” izzo said. “we’ve earned this, but i know Kansas or louisville could be no. 1 right now. duke and Kentucky are really good, too.” 
Kansas, which beat duke in the other game in the big doubleheader last week, moved from no. 5 to no. 2 and re­ceived seven first-place votes. louisville stayed third and got the other seven first-place votes. Kentucky dropped to fourth and was followed by arizona, duke, oklahoma state, ohio state, syracuse and vcu. 
michigan state might have still been celebrating its victory over the young and talented wildcats a few days later when it needed to close a game strong to pull away and avoid getting upset at home by columbia. 
“being no. 1 now gives us a chance to see how we’ll handle our goal of being no. 1 at the end of the season,” izzo said. “we have to learn how to deal with the pressure and status of being where we are right now. but i don’t think by any means this will be like playing with a 40-pound weight on our shoulders.” 
so far, the spartans have lived up to high expectations with four returning starters and six of their top seven scor­ers from last year’s team that won 27 games, finished a game out of first place in the big Ten and advanced to the ncaa tournament’s round of 16. 
after playing the pilots of west coast conference on monday night, michigan state will play virginia Tech on Friday night in brooklyn, n.y. and then oklahoma or seton hall the following night. The spartans’ next marquee game will be dec. 4 at home against no. 24 north carolina. 

NHL | piTTsburgh 3, anaheim 1 
Penguins erupt with three in 3rd, slip by Ducks 3-1 
Associated Press 

piTTsburgh – sidney crosby capped a third-period outburst with his 10th goal of the season, and the pittsburgh penguins beat the anaheim ducks 3-1 on monday night. 
brian gibbons scored on the first shot of his nhl career and brandon sutter chipped in his fourth goal of the season as pittsburgh’s struggling offense found a rhythm late against the pacific division-leading ducks. 
marc-andre Fleury stopped 26 shots for pittsburgh, which won for only the second time in six games. crosby’s goal was just his second in 11 games. 
ryan getzlaf scored his 11th goal for the ducks, who earned just one point during a four-game east coast road trip. viktor Fasth made 24 saves but strug­gled in the final 20 minutes. 
gibbons took a slick back­hand pass from evgeni malkin to break a scoreless tie 3:56 into the third. 
malkin did most of the work. he skated across the blue line and then did a 360-degree tour of the anaheim zone with two ducks chasing him before find­ing gibbons in the slot. The 25-year-old gibbons beat Fasth over the shoulder to put the penguins in front. 

The penguins needed just 62 seconds to make it 2-0, as sutter deflected a shot from the point by olli maatta. 
anaheim responded imme­diately when getzlaf scored his fifth goal in four games by anchoring himself in front of the net. he patiently waited for Fleury to slide out of position before tucking the puck past the sprawled goaltender. 
Fleury recovered to make a pair of acrobatic saves on an anaheim power play. 
crosby pushed pittsburgh back in front by two when he took advantage of a screen from chris Kunitz to sneak a shot from the right circle past Fasth and cap the penguins’ three-goal outburst in a span of 4:04. 
The goals came after penguins coach dan bylsma shuffled lines during the pregame skate, hoping to spark an offense that had scored only one goal in four of its last five games — losing those four. 
pascal dupuis moved from the top line with crosby to the second line with malkin. Jussi Jokinen, second on the team in goals, was bumped down to the third line to give sutter a little help. 
The initial results were underwhelming. 
Then again, anaheim had a little something to do with it. The ducks, in the midst of their first rough patch following a brilliant start, dominated the first 20 minutes. They clogged passing lanes, gave pittsburgh’s talented forwards little room to freelance and controlled play for long stretches. 
pittsburgh didn’t record a shot on Fasth until 2:02 left in the first period, when bennett managed to redirect a pass from crosby into Fasth’s chest. The arena roared in mock cel­ebration, though for all of the penguins’ offensive issues, things remained scoreless thanks to Fleury. 
starting for the 19th time in pittsburgh’s 22 games, Fleury turned aside several early scor­ing chances, including a pair of opportunities by getzlaf. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

NBA | dallas 97, philadelphia 94 
Mavs hold on for win over 76ers 
Associated Press 
monta ellis scored 24 points, including 13 in the third quar­ter when dallas took its first lead, and the mavericks beat the philadelphia 76ers 97-94 monday night. 
dirk nowitzki and shawn marion had 20 points apiece for the mavericks, who began a stretch of seven out of nine games in dallas. nowitzki had 10 rebounds, and marion chipped in seven. 
ellis had 19 points in the sec­ond half and added a game-high 10 assists and two of dallas’ 11 blocked shots. 
Two nights after a 37-point loss in new orleans, the sixers held the mavericks scoreless for the first 5 minutes and led by 10 in the first half. 
even after losing its lead for good late in the third quarter, philadelphia stayed close be­hind evan Turner, Tony wroten and some late 3-pointers from James anderson. 
Turner had 26 points, nine rebounds and seven assists while wroten had 19 points and five steals. 
The mavericks pulled even twice in the third quarter before finally taking their first lead when vince carter knocked the ball loose as hollis Thompson was going up for a layup. 
Jae crowder ended up with the ball on a breakaway but gave it up to marion for the dunk and a 70-69 dallas lead with 1:44 remaining. 
philadelphia had the ball down just 90-87 in the fourth, but samuel dalembert had one of his three blocks on a drive by Turner. 
Jose calderon was wide open for a short jumper on the other end but passed before getting the ball back beyond the arc and hitting for a 93-87 lead. calderon had 14 points and was 4 of 10 from long range. 
anderson finished with 14, including 3-of-7 shooting from 3-point range. Thaddeus young struggled from the field at 6 of 18 but still finished with a dou­ble-double at 12 points and 11 rebounds. spencer hawes had 10 points and 11 boards. 
The sixers held the mavericks to a season-low 43 points in the first half. wroten frequently found his way into the lane and matched Turner with 12 points before halftime. 
wroten and Turner com­bined to make 10 of 17 from the field before halftime while their teammates were just 10 of 34. philadelphia shot 39 per­cent as a team in the first half. 
ellis, who has the most games of at least 18 points to start a dallas career at 11, didn’t get his first basket until the 2:12 mark of the second quarter. but it wasn’t because he was missing. he was just 2 of 4 from the field before halftime. 
mavericks coach rick carlisle changed his lineup for the first time this season, inserting forward Jae crowder for dalembert, who was the starting center for the first 10 games. but the move backfired. 
crowder went 0 for 5 with two turnovers while dallas went scoreless before nowitzki hit a baseline jumper exactly 5 minutes in after marion re­bounded a missed 3-pointer by crowder. 

NFL | carolina 24, new england 20 
panthers rally past patriots for sixth straight win 
Associated Press 

cam newton threw a 25­yard touchdown pass to Ted ginn Jr. with 59 seconds left and the carolina panthers held off the new england patriots 24-20 monday night for their sixth straight victory when officials picked up a pen­alty flag on the final play. 
stephen gostkowski’s 26­yard field goal put the patriots up 20-17 before newton drove carolina 83 yards on 13 plays for the go-ahead touchdown. The speedy ginn escaped Kyle arrington along the left side­line and outraced logan ryan to the left pylon for his third touchdown of the season. 
The patriots appeared on the verge of making an im­probable comeback when brady moved new england to the carolina 18 and fired into the end zone on the game’s fi­nal play. 
The pass was intercepted by safety robert lester, but officials threw a flag after it appeared linebacker luke Kuechly had interfered with tight end rob gronkowski by grabbing him with both hands. but officials quickly gathered together and waved off the flag. 
an angry brady sprinted over to two officials to argue the call as they walked off the field. meanwhile, the panthers celebrated. 
“we had good pressure and our safety robert lester was in good position to make the play,” panthers coach ron rivera said. 
brady was 29 of 40 for 296 yards and one touchdown. 
newton completed 19 of 28 passes for 209 yards and three touchdowns. he also ran sev­en times for 62 yards in what will go down as one of his best games a pro. 
after the game, rivera called it a “gutsy effort.” 
“it wasn’t our best defensive effort, but it was one of our bet­ter offensive efforts,” rivera said. “it was good for our guys to win a game like this.” 
carolina’s win came eight days after a 10-9 victory over reigning nFc champion san Francisco. 
The panthers entered the fourth quarter with a 17-10 lead, but stevan ridley made up for an earlier fumble with a 1-yard touchdown run and the patriots took the lead with 
6:32 left in the game when gostkowski slipped a 26-yard field goal just inside the left upright. 
newton gave carolina a 17­10 lead in the third quarter on an 81-yard touchdown drive that took more than 8 minutes off the clock and featured a scramble in which the third-year quarterback avoided four tacklers and turned a poten­tial 20-yard sack into a 14-yard gain and a first down. 
newton completed all seven passes on the drive for 77 yards finding greg olsen at the right pylon with 2:10 left for his sec­ond touchdown pass, putting the panthers back in front. 
“cam did the things he needed to do to put us in posi­tion to win the football game,” rivera said. “it has a lot to do with his maturity that we have talked about.” 

NBA | golden sTaTe 98, uTah 87 
Warriors roll past Jazz 
leaving in the fourth quarter after 
Associated Press 
utah’s marvin williams landed 

stephen curry scored 22 on his head in a scramble for a points, Klay Thompson and loose ball. after a couple of min­harrison barnes had 17 apiece utes to gain his bearings, curry and the golden state warriors got up and left the court under his beat the struggling utah Jazz 98-own power with a towel draped 87 on monday night. over his head. 
curry had eight assists and curry is expected to be ready made four 3-pointers before for wednesday’s home game 
paid adverTisemenT 


against memphis. 
The warriors made 12 of 22 at­tempts from 3-point range and led by as many as 28 points. 
gordon hayward scored 18 points and williams had 16 but the Jazz (1-11) dropped their third straight after earning their lone win of the season. 
in their first game without Jermaine o’neal, david lee had 14 points and 14 rebounds while andrew bogut added 13 rebounds and three blocked shots to neutralize utah’s inside presence. 
what the Jazz lack (and the warriors have in spades) became apparent in the fourth quarter. after clawing within striking distance, utah missed eight of its first nine shots in the fourth quarter. 
The Jazz are among the worst shooting teams in the league, converting less than 41 percent of their attempts. They were even worse against golden state, fin­ishing at 39.5 percent despite an abundance of clean looks at the rim. 
on the other end, the warriors heated up in the final period to put the game away. Thompson’s layup with 7:56 to play extended the lead to 92-69.utah did have one strong stretch in the third quarter. diante garrett, who was just signed last week, checked in and promptly scored eight in a 17-2 spurt. garrett dished to williams for a 3 that made it 70-57. 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC BASKETBALL | uww 107, smc 61; smc 83, nc 33 SMC CROSS COUNTRY | smc 14/39 
saint mary’s splits opening weekend 

By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
saint mary’s tipped off its sea­son this weekend at the saint norbert Tip-off Tournament in green bay, wis., falling 107-61 to no. 2 wisconsin-whitewater on Friday before rebounding with a 83-33 win over northland on saturday. 
“it was a crazy weekend,” saint mary’s coach Jenn henley said. “The first night we’re play­ing one of the top teams in the country, and less than 24 hours later we play a team who only travelled six members of their squad. From a coaching stand­point, i didn’t exactly get a good impression of where our team is at.” 
in the opening game, the belles (1-1) committed 20 turn­overs in the first half, and the warhawks (2-0) didn’t fail to capitalize, scoring 25 of their first-half points off of belles’ mishaps as they went into the break up 52-22. 
“i thought wisconsin­whitewater certainly exposed some of our weaknesses, espe­cially in the first half as it per­tains to turnovers and handling defensive pressure,” henley said. 
after shooting only 31 percent in the first half, the belles shot 51 percent from the field in the second half, but were unable to cut into the warhawks’ lead. The belles were 1-for-4 with 3-point­ers and 4-for-8 from the free-throw line. uw-whitewater shot 49 percent from the field, adding five 3-pointers and sinking 10­for-14 from the charity stripe. 
“all in all, i thought we played with them better in the second half,” henley said. 
sophomore forward eleni shea led the way for the belles with 15 points and six rebounds, while junior forward ariana paul added 14 points and seven rebounds. 
in the second matchup of the tournament, the belles took on northland in the consolation round. 
The belles jumped out to a 22-0 lead to start the game and were not threatened by the lumberJills (0-2), as they car­ried a 41-19 lead into halftime. senior guard shanlynn bias and freshman center Kelsey ronan sparked the belles with 10 points each in the opening half. The belles continued to control the game on both ends of the floor in the second half, forcing 12 lumberJill turnovers, while shooting 54 percent from the field. The belles dominat­ed the glass, outrebounding northland 57-19, while putting up 18 second-chance points off of 28 offensive rebounds. Ten belles  saw playing time. 
“we saw a lot of zone against northland, which forced us to attack the gaps and open things up for our post players,” henley said. “ we were also able to find holes in the zone to get offensive rebounds.” 
bias, who was named to the all-tournament team, finished with a game-high 16 points, while sophomore forward Krista Knapke tallied 12 points and 16 rebounds en route to her first double-double of the year. 
despite playing two teams at opposite ends of the competitive spectrum, henley said the tour­nament still helped her team. 
“at the end of the day, all of our non-conference opponents are used to get us ready for miaa play,” henley said. “i felt like whitewater has helped us in that regard. The northland game gave us the opportunity to play a lot of different com­binations on the floor with our roster.” 
The belles take the floor next in a matchup againsh buena vista on Friday at 5 p.m. in the opening round of the wheaton Tournament, held in wheaton, ill. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 

Belles end year at regionals 

Observer Staff Report 

The belles closed out their season with a 14th place fin­ish at the ncaa great lakes regional meet on saturday. 
saint mary’s claimed 14th place out of 39 teams with a team score of 419. The belles’ 14th place finish is the team’s best appearance at the ncaa regional in the program’s history. 
no. 5 calvin hosted and won the meet with an over­all score of 54. 
senior Jessica biek paved the way for the belles with a 23rd place finish out of more than 240 runners. she ran a personal record time of 22:35.8, just one tenth of a second short frof taking 22nd place. 
biek’s top-25 time earned her all-region honors. biek is the first belles runner to earn the distinction since Julia Kenney did sonin 2010. 
right behind biek was freshman brittany beeler. beeler claimed 47th place with a time of 23:08.2, matching the pace of her and 114th place, respec-out the competition for the miaa championship run tively. chittenden ran a per-belles. Knauf concluded the time. sonal record time of 24:23.2 overall team score with a 
crossing the finish line and dunn finished with a 24:45.7 time for 127th place. within a few seconds of time of 24:27.9. curtis finished 132nd with a one another, Junior samee Junior erin Knauf, senior time of 24:57.6, while alessi chittenden and sophomore colette curtis and fresh-ended with a 25:28.2 time to Katelyn dunn took 112th man Kaitlyn alessi closed take 151st. 
paid adverTisemenT 



ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING | nd 219, valparaiso 60; nd 171, wisconsin 126 
nd sweeps crusaders, badgers over weekend 

By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 

The irish dominated the pool this weekend with back-to-back wins over valparaiso on Friday and wisconsin on saturday at rolfs aquatic center. 
The irish (4-3) opened the weekend with a clean sweep over in-state competitor valparaiso (0-6). The irish won all sixteen events to defeat valparaiso 219­
60. notre dame took down no. 24 wisconsin (3-3) in a 171-126 win saturday to close out the weekend. 
“i am very pleased with this team,” irish coach brian barnes said. “we performed very well this weekend.” 
against valparaiso, the irish had the opportunity for several of their swimmers to compete. notre dame had 13 swimmers win the 14 individual events with junior emma reaney earning the top spot in the 200-yard butterfly 
(2:03.51) and the 100-yard free­style (52.60). 
“it felt really nice to get an easy win in while still being able to swim some of our off events,” reaney said. “i was in the 200 fly which i never swim, and it’s always fun to mix it up a little. i think it gave our team a little bit of a confidence boost as well.” 
Juniors erin Foley (1,650-yard freestyle) and courtney whyte (200-yard individual medley), and sophomores catherine galletti (100-yard backstroke) and genevieve bradford (100-yard breaststroke) all earned their first individual wins of the season. 
in addition to individual events, the irish also secured wins in the two relays. notre dame won the 200-medley relay in 1:46.22 with seniors Kelly ryan, lauren stauder and christen mcdonough, and sophomore genevieve heidkamp. ryan, stauder, mcdonough and senior mikelle masciantonio also took the 200-free relay with a time of 1:37.25. 
after a successful team perfor­mance Friday, barnes said the irish were ready to take on the badgers the next morning. 
“The team was feeling good about things heading into saturday,” barnes said. “we saw some good swims Friday, and we faced saturday confidently to face a ranked opponent.” 
“we knew [wisconsin was] ranked and that we weren’t yet, which was a little intimidat­ing, but i think we really wanted to prove we could beat them,” reaney said. 
Taking 10 out of the 16 events, the irish proved that they could in fact beat the badgers. 
notre dame opened up saturday with a victory in the 400-yard medley relay (3:44.10), consisting of freshmen catherine mulquin and Katie miller, ryan and reaney. 
reaney led the irish with wins in three events, while miller and junior allison casareto followed closely behind, each tallying wins in two events. reaney won the 100-yard freestyle (1:50.42) as well as the 100-yard (1:02.04—ncaa b cut) and 200-yard (2:17.22) breaststroke. miller claimed the 100-yard backstroke (56.36) and 400-yard individual medley (4:21.40). casareto dominated the diving boards with a score of 321.07 on the one-meter and 
329.40 on the three-meter. 
“during the meet on saturday, we were winning race after race and our depth was finally starting to show, and i could really see our confidence grow as the meet pro­gressed,” reaney said. 
after winning  four consecutive dual meets, the irish have three weeks to train for the hawkeye invitational in iowa city, iowa, at university aquatic center on dec. 6. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

ND CROSS COUNTRY | men: 3/31 | women: 4/33 
Irish qualify for NCAA Championships 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
notre dame punched its tick­et to the ncaa championships in Terre haute, ind., with third and fourth place finishes at the ncaa great lakes regional meet this weekend from the irish men and women, respec­tively. in the selection process for the championship meet, the top-two finishers in each region earn automatic bids, normally leaving teams outside the top two on the bubble about their national championship pros­pects. irish coach Tim connolly said that was hardly the case. 
“you’re always worried a little bit, just based on what happens in other regions,” connolly said. “given how the selection pro­cess works, though, we knew we’d be alright as long as we finished in the top four. There were a lot of regions where we’d beaten the teams that got the automatic bids, so we knew we were set up pretty well.” 
senior Kelly curran led the way for the irish women with a third-place finish, crossing the finish line at 20:14. senior alexa aragon (20:49) finished 20th, while sophomore molly seidel  (21:11) and junior gabby gonzales (21:18) finished sec­onds apart in 33rd and 37th place, respectively. 
“we had a couple girls run good races,” connolly said. “Kelly, of course, ran a really good race. she’s been probably our most consistent runner … i was also impressed again with how molly ran, considering she was out for a month with a train­ing injury. she keeps getting more and more fit.” 
however, connolly said the team as a whole will have to run a better race if the irish want to be competitive at the ncaa championships. 
“There are just a few girls right now who aren’t where we thought they’d be,” connolly said. “That, and we need to do a better job of finding each other early in the race and then fighting over the last half. This weekend we did a decent job of finding each other, but i was a little disappointed with how we finished.” 
no. 14 michigan and no. 9 butler earned the automatic bids with their first- and sec-ond-place finishes, while no. 6 michigan state, which also earned an at-large bid, took third. 
For the irish men, the race was exceptionally close, with the top-three finishers separated by just four points. 
“[The race] was our best team race of the season,” irish junior Jake Kildoo said. 

no. 16 michigan joined its women’s team atop the po­dium with 70 points, while no. 19 wisconsin and 21st-ranked notre dame finished with 73 and 74 points, respectively, for second and third place. “we very well could have won,” Kildoo said. “still, this will defi­nitely give us some momentum through the next week of prac­tice and going into ncaa’s. if we can turn in a race like this, we’ll dbe able to compete for a top-10 to top-15 finish.” 
The irish had five finishers in the top 30, led by graduate student Jeremy rae’s (30:22) fifth-place finish and senior martin grady’s (30:27) sixth-place effort.  graduate student 
J.p. malette (30:42) followed in 15th, while sophomore michael clevenger (30:55) finished 22nd. Kildoo (31:10) rounded out the top irish finishers with a 27th place effort. 
“i think we all just ran very focused and tough, which made the difference,” Kildoo said. “we were confident if we did that we’d we would get into ncaa’s.” 
The irish travel to Terre haute, ind., on saturday for the ncaa championships meet, held at the lavern gibson championship cross country course. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 



early lead. senior receiver and was blocked by the Kangaroos’ 
M Interhall 
kicker John garry hit the point special teams unit, and 
conTinued From page 16 

after to make it a 7-0 game af-donegan took a knee to end ter the first quarter. the Knights’ season. 
“sometimes i feel like i could although Keenan had the “we got to this point last year, close my eyes and throw it up lead, the running game for and now we have one more win to [Kraemer], and he would the Kangaroos (5-1), led by to take care of,” donegan said. come down with it,” hurley freshman running back conor “if we bring this kind of energy said. Kinasz, broke through the and come together like this it’s 
The carroll offense tried Knights’ defense and scored a going to be fun [playing for the to respond, but replacement rushing touchdown five yards championship].” seunior quarterback Jacn out from the end zone. Kinasz The Kangaroos’ rushing at­gardner’s fourth-down pass converted the two-point con-tack dominated this matchup, fell incomplete, and alumni version to give the Kangaroos picking up 103 yards and two never gave the ball back. an 8-7 halftime lead. touchdowns. Kinasz account­
“The character that the although the finish was not The rest of the game was a ed for the two rushing touch-
Volleyball 

team has shown has been what he would have liked, defensive struggle between downs, but he said he gave the 
conTinued From page 16 

very positive,” brown said. carroll senior captain and the two teams, as they each credit to his teammates for his “we got beat badly in that lineman mike russell said he turned the ball over twice. success. 
“even though we had some first game and then came out was proud of his team. Keough sophomore receiver “seamus, our captain and good hitting percentages, with much more resolve in “we played hard, and we and defensive back mitchell quarterback, leads us well, and we’re still not generating the last two.” left everything on the field,” patin made a key intercep-our line pushed me through enough kills,” brown said. The losses leave the irish russell said. “we played our tion, which could have sealed holes for me to be able to run “we’re not being terminal.” in 12th place in the acc, 10 hearts out, but i don’t have any the victory for the Kangaroos through,” Kinasz said. “i need 
on sunday, the irish fell in games behind duke and out regrets.” until Kinasz fumbled the ball to work on holding on to the straight sets to the seminoles of contention for the confer-alumni will battle for the in-later in the third quarter on ball, but my teammates will (13-3, 20-7), recovering slight-ence crown. The ncaa tour-terhall football championship the Knights’ one-yard line to pick me up, and i will have ly after being trounced 25-nament is also out of reach with Keough on sunday. give Keenan another chance at their back.” 13 in the first game. Florida for the irish, who currently sit a comeback.  despite the loss, riche said state took the second and 97th nationally in rpi. still, Contact Zach Klonsinski at Keenan’s opportunity to he believed his team played third sets by scores of 25-21. brown said that her team will zklonsin@nd.edu drive 99 yards for a score was with heart and pride through­
“we tried running a 6-2 remain motivated heading abruptly ended when patin out the game. offense in the first set and into its last four games, all at Keough 16, Keenan 13 forced a safety on the very next “it was our first time being just got stuck in a rotation,” home. play with a tackle for loss in down this entire year, and 
By MANNY DE JESUS 

brown said. “Then the rest of “our focus now is on doing sports writer the Knights’ end zone. Kinasz for us to respond the way we the match was quite competi-what’s best for the team, not then rushed for his second did, fighting through it all, i tive, and we were ahead for a necessarily what’s best for in a rematch from the regu-touchdown of the night to give couldn’t be prouder,” riche lot of game two.” the individual,” brown said. lar season, no. 4 Keough de-Keough the 16-7 lead.midway said. “we’ve had a great run, 
once again, the irish strug-“That continues to be our em-feated no. 1 Keenan 16-13 in through the fourth quarter, and it won’t stop with me as gled offensively, hitting just phasis. we’re playing to win, monday’s semifinals, send-Keenan freshman defensive the younger guys will take over .167 on the match. smith and and whoever’s called upon is ing the Kangaroos to the back mikey Koller intercepted the program and make it bet-junior outside hitter meg going to play.” championship at notre dame Keough senior captain and ter for the future.” vonderhaar led notre dame The irish next take the stadium. quarterback seamus donegan, The Kangaroos head to with nine and eight kills court against virginia Tech The first quarter favored the which eventually turned into notre dame stadium on respectively. on wednesday at 7 p.m. at Knights (5-1) as sophomore six points for the Knights when sunday to take on alumni for 
despite the two losses, purcell pavilion. quarterback patrick corry corry hit riche once again in the championship. brown said that her team’s connected with senior receiver the end zone from six yards mentality has remained Contact Conor Kelly at and captain Jeremy riche on a out. Contact Manny De Jesus at unaffected. ckelly17@nd.edu 55-yard touchdown to take the garry’s point after attempt mdejesus@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

CONTROLLED CHAOS| hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: allyson Felix, 28; denny hamlin, 33; chloe sevigny, 39; owen wilson, 45. 
Happy Birthday: you’ll question things you’ve done in the past as you look for an­swers that will help you move forward. learn all you can about unique ways to lower stress and to enjoy life more. say no to those who limit you and venture toward a way of life that is more conducive to obtaining your dreams, hopes and wishes. your numbers are 6, 11, 15, 26, 35, 37, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): observation will be a telltale sign of what’s to come when dealing with both personal and professional relationships. let your keen perception guide you and help you make choices based on your findings. don’t let a love affair lead you astray.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): strive for perfection. show your capabilities and don’t be afraid to brag a little. your charm will attract attention and enhance your love life. put aside time for a little romance in the evening to ease your stress.  


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): your emotions will dictate the way you react to situa­tions that arise between you and your peers. don’t make promises you cannot keep. bragging will leave you in an awkward position. you are better to understate than to exaggerate. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): if you make a professional move, do it for the right rea­son. an impulsive move will not end well. ask questions that will give you insight to what’s unfolding around you. prosperity will be based on your values and attributes. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): personal problems can be expected if you have taken on too much. don’t bend to the demands being put on you at home. looking at a situation from a different perspective will help you make a decision that can lead to positive alternatives. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): call in favors and re-address unfinished business. you can finally get answers and make positive plans. communication will be your ticket to success, and you’ll get all the help you need to accomplish your goals. don’t let emotional misperceptions interfere.  

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): avoid overspending and consider ways to budget better. avoid emotional and impulsive purchases. concentrate on how you can best use your skills and intelligence to bring in more cash. charm can help you secure a better position. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): lighten up and spend the day doing things that make you happy and bring you additional satisfaction and the promise of an interest­ing encounter. romance will put an interesting spin on a relationship that needs a boost. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you will find it necessary to figure out a way to secure your position. holding on to what you have will take patience and under­standing on your part. showing emotion or anger will work against you. stick close to home.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t wait to see what someone else is going to do. be a leader, not a follower. your forthright, aggressive approach to work and getting ahead will pay off and bring you added respect. an increase in revenue looks posi­tive. plan to celebrate.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you will have to pay close attention to what others say or do. protect your interests and hang out where you feel safe and secure. make a last-minute change if you don’t feel comfortable with the way a situation is develop­ing. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): set up meetings, attend functions that are conducive to gathering information and develop a plan that will further your interests. personal and financial matters can be dealt with favorably. negotiate and you will get what you want. 


Birthday Baby: you meet challenges head-on. you are charismatic, mysterious and unique. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Breezing on ‘bye’ 
Irish earn No. 3 seed, first-round bye, could face coach’s son, Washington in semifinals 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame earned a no. 3 overall seed and a bye to the second round when the ncaa championship bracket was an­nounced monday. The irish (12­1-6, 7-1-3 acc) will play their first game of the tournament at home sunday, facing either wisconsin (13-4-2) or milwaukee (15-2-2), who will play their first-round match Thursday. 
notre dame is the lone non­pac-12 team among the top four seeds. ucla claimed the no. 1 overall seed in the 48-team draw. The bruins (11-3-4) and irish tied, 0-0, in notre dame’s first game of the season on aug. 30. 
washington (14-1-4) took the second seed after winning their first pac-12 championship since 2000. The huskies’ only loss came at the hands of conference oppo­nentuclaonoct.27.washington is coached by Jamie clark, the son of irish coach bobby clark. should both father and son win their first three games in the tour­nament, their teams will meet in the semifinals. 
no. 4 california (12-4-2) rounds out the top four seeds. The seeded teams in notre dame’s branch of the bracket are no. 6 georgetown, no. 11 michigan state and no. 14 wake Forest. The irish beat wake Forest (9-5-5) 3-1 in winston­salem, n.c., on nov. 2 and beat michigan state (12-5-3) 2-0 in east lansing, mich., on nov. 5. 
This will be notre dame’s 16th appearance in the ncaa championship bracket and its eighth time as one of the 16 seed­ed teams. during clark’s 13-year tenure, the irish have made 12 ap­pearances with a 10-10-1 overall record, 
The irish have outscored their opponents 33-14 this season. senior forward harrison shipp leads the team with nine goals and eight assists on the season, while sophomore midfielder patrick hodan chipped in six goals and five assists. 
The irish begin ncaa tour­nament play sunday at 7 p.m. at alumni stadium. They will host the winner of Thursday’s wisconsin-milwaukee first-round matchup. 


ND VOLLEYBALL | miami 3, nd 0; Florida sTaTe 3, nd 0 
’canes, ’noles sweep nd 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 
notre dame concluded the away portion of its acc schedule this weekend with a visit to the sunshine state, falling to miami on 
Friday night and  no. 22  
Florida  state  on  sunday  
a fternoon.  

The irish (11-16, 5-11 acc) earned their first acc home win over miami back on oct. 18 but found the going tougher in coral gables. The hurricanes (16-10, 9-7) dropped the irish in straight sets (25-20, 25-14, 25-22). 
“when we got them at home we were much more comfortable,” irish coach debbie brown said. “you have to put pressure on a team in volleyball, get them to make mistakes, and that’s not something we were able to do.” 
many of notre dame’s problems stemmed from an inability to control miami’s powerful attack, brown said. Junior outside hit­ter savannah leaf led the hurricanes with 17 kills, and two other teammates reached double digits as the hosts racked up a .357 hitting percentage. 

“we really didn’t have answers on the defensive end,” brown said. “They got off to a great start and never really let up.” 
offensively, the irish were led by junior outside hitter Jeni houser, who knocked home 11 kills, senior hitter nicole smith with six and senior setter maggie brindock with four. as has been the case for much of the season, brown said that her team’s prob­lems lay in not producing a sufficient volume of kills on offense. 

see volleyball PAGE 14 
MEN’S INTERHALL 

Alumni and Keough advance 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
after coming within a point twice in the last three years, no. 2 alumni finally earned its way to the hallowed grounds of notre dame stadium, advanc­ing with a come-from-behind, 13-9 win over no. 3 carroll on monday. 
“This is why we play,” dawgs senior captain and receiver Jeff Kraemer said. “That was one of our slower starts … but the guys answered the bell and played some dawg football in the second half.” 
The dawgs (6-0) struggled in the first half, giving away the first points of the game, as a snap sailed over junior punter ryan buckley’s head for a safe­ty on the first play of the second quarter. 
The vermin (4-1-1) then drove 45 yards in five plays be­fore vermin senior quarterback bobby dorman broke a tackle and barreled into the end zone from five yards out. dorman tacked on the extra point to give carroll a 9-0 lead. 
late in the half, the vermin marched deep into dawg territory. with the ball on the alumni 13-yard line, dorman took a hard hit from an alumni defender. The senior left the game and never returned. 
alumni then stuffed fresh­man running back Zach dodd from the one-yard line as time ran out in the half, preventing carroll from adding to its lead. 
The dawgs opened the sec­ond half with a 65-yard drive, capped by sophomore quarter­back Trevor hurley’s pass down the right sideline to Kraemer, who dove inside the pylon to secure the score. a missed ex­tra point by buckley kept the vermin lead at 9-6. 
The alumni offense got the ball back at the carroll 39-yard line after its defense forced a three-and-out. Twice on the ensuing drive, alumni was forced into fourth-and-long situations and twice Kraemer came up with huge, first-down receptions. The senior then hauled in a one-yard touch­down reception to give alumni the lead for good, early in the fourth quarter. buckley’s extra point made the score 13-9. 
see m inTerhall PAGE 14 




