The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 105 | THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Students chronicle minority experience 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 
Editor’s note: This is the final installment in a three-part series about the Call to Action movement and the experiences of minority stu­dents within the Notre Dame campus community. 
For sophomore demetrius murphy, the 20-minute drive separating his home in granger, ind., from notre dame’s campus meant much more than a short time be­hind the wheel. 
The transition to col­lege was relatively smooth, murphy said, but the range of questions friends in Keenan hall and at notre dame asked about his african­american identity quickly made him realize most of his peers did not come from di­verse backgrounds. 
murphy said he found the explaining the customs 
of  african-american  com­ 
munities to his peers  to  be  
challenging.  

“That can be a heavy bur­den to bear because when­ever you say something you have to be very conscious about what you’re going to say,” murphy said. “you are representing the whole race with that one comment you’re about to make.” 
see call PAGE 7 

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 
Sophomore Amanda Peña reflects upon her years at Notre Dame and the unique challenges faced by minority students on campus, beginning with the freshman orientation experience. 


Seniors react to commencement speaker 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI  By JOHN CAMERON  
news writer ary degree from the at the  university lead the bishops’ opposition to the health care mandate,”  news editor  
may 19 cecardinal Timothy dolan will notre dame stadiu remony in m. Kippenbock said. “i’d expect  The death of venezuela’s  
deliver the commencement senior Jason K ippenbock his message to us as graduates  president hugo chavez on  
address to the class of 2013, said he is thrilled  by the se­of america’s greatest catholic  Tuesday leaves a number of ques­ 
and the selection has prompt­lection because  dolan’s institution would be to not  tions for the south american  
ed seniors to reflect on dolan’s charismatic person ality and back down, and to use our gifts  nation, which now adds a presi­ 
relevance to the student body intellectual background  make and our strengths to live out  dential election to the list of com- 
and his ability to successfully him an ideal fit for t he event. the gospel.”  plex challenges it already faces.  
connect with them. “when [dolan]  speaks, senior camille suarez said  professor michael coppedge,  
dolan, the archbishop of he has always e mphasized she initially reacted negatively  a political science professor spe­ 
new york and the president of how important it is  to live out  cializing in latin-american poli­ 
the u.s. conference of catholic your faith fearlessl y and not see reacTion PAGE 6  tics and global democratization,  

Bishops, will receive an honor-back down, like the way he 

professor reflects on chavez’s death 


said the future of the regime – at least in the short term – will be determined by interim president and chavez’s chosen successor, 
see chaveZ PAGE 5 


private college 529 plan offers prepaid tuition option 

BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 

By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news writer 
many students take years to pay off their loans after earning degrees, but notre dame offers families a way to preemptively finance their children’s higher education by pre-paying fu­ture tuition bills through the private college 529 plan. 
notre dame is one of 271 institutions that participate in the plan, which sets up a risk-free method for families to anticipate college costs and finance tuition payments, according to executive director of student financial strategies Thomas Bear. Families can purchase tuition certificates at current prices that are redeem­able at any of the participating institutions after three years. 
“This plan is great for a fam­ily because you assume no risk. once you lock into that price and pay tuition for future years, it’s guaranteed,” Bear said. “as a family who is going to invest, when you buy tuition [through the plan] you’re buy­ing it at all 271 schools.” 
Bear said oppenheimerFunds, inc., manages money put into the plan and the anticipation is that oppenheimer’s invest­ments will make up the dollar difference in tuition between the time of the original pay­ment and the point where the family is ready to redeem their tuition certificates. 
“if they don’t make up the difference [with the invest­ments], here’s where it’s really good for families: The institu­tion assumes the risk, so we, 
see TuiTion PAGE 6 


irish heriTage PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 men’s BasKeTBall PAGE 20 hocKey PAGE 20 





ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is the most creative dessert you’ve eaten at the dining hall? 


Catherine Benson 

Tara Crown 
junior 

junior mcglinn hall 
mcglinn hall “a waffle with sprinkles on top.” “pudding cup: whipped cream,  pudding and froyo, with the option of more whipped cream.” 


Brian Carrion 
junior 
duncan hall 

“mixture of orange, blue and red jello.” 



Lou Ganser 
senior 
dillion hall 

“Froyo with potato chips and chocolate syrup.” 

Connor Tice 
junior 
Keough hall 
“i made myself a mocha with chocolate froyo and coffee.” 



Tommasina Domel 
senior 
Badin hall 

“oreo crumbles and milk: ‘oreo paste.’” 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
ann marie Jakubowski cory Bernard Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rebecca o’neil alex wilcox charitha isanaka peter steiner 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Brandon Keelean miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Mammograms on Even Fridays Family Men’s and Women’s “Chamber III: Slavic Midterm break 
mackenzie sain dan Brombach 
Campus Swim Fencing Heritage.” Through March 17. Hesburgh Library Rockne Memorial Joyce Center DeBartolo Performing 8 a.m. - 1 p.m. 5: 30 p.m. - 7: 30 p.m. All day Arts Center 
Corrections 

Free for Notre Dame Register online via NCAA Regional 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as faculty. RecRegister. Championships Concert. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Zen Meditation “The Master (2012)” Women’s Lacrosse Sunday Mass 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Coleman-Morse DeBartolo Performing Arlotta Stadium Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
Center Arts Center 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
5: 15 p.m. - 6: 15 p.m. 6: 30 p.m. - 8: 54 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Boston 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
All faiths are welcome. Film. University. Mass. 
we can correct our error. 



Board promotes diversity through conference 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
The saint mary’s student diversity Board (sdB) will host its biggest event of the year after springbreakwhenit sponsors the eighth annual diverse students’ leadership conference (dslc) on march 19 and 20. 
senior maddie meckes, chair of dslc and vice president of sdB, said the event intends to motivate participants to spark speakers, meckes said, each with a different perspective on diversity. The opening speaker, daisy hernandez, is co-editor of ‘colonize This!: young women of color on Today’s Feminism.’ she will speak at 12 p.m. march 19 in carroll auditorium. 

“[hernandez] speaks on equality, feminism, race and politics,” meckes said. “derreck Kayongo is our closing keynote speaker on march 20 at 6 p.m. in carroll auditorium. he is a refu­three keynotes have recognized the need for change and worked, either through their writing or their careers, to make a positive change in the world.” 
osbergerd said she is especial­ly excited about the speakers be­cause of their ability to connect with the audience. 
“i look forward to daisy hernandez’s keynote address because … she is charismatic and funny, but her message for feminism and equality is par-
author explores arab-israeli ties 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
israeli author sayed Kashua spoke about the arab-israeli dynamic and his latest novel “second person singular” in a presentation at the hesburgh center for international studies on wednesday. 
Theology professor michael Tzvi novick introduced Kashua and read two selections from into israeli culture as lawyers, doctors and laborers than in the arts or academia. 
“even though i am now a suc­cessful novelist, my parents still say writing is for Jews and arabs should have a profes­sion,” he said. “my father will read my novel and say, ‘That is a very good piece of work. someone who can write so well in hebrew should be a lawyer.’” 
Kashua said the first real novel he ever read, which was “catcher in the rye,” he read 
in hebrew at age 15 while at a 
boarding school in Jerusalem. 
“when you read that book at 
15, it can really affect you,” he 
said. “i learned that i can have 
doubts.” social change. gee from uganda and founded ticularly pertinent to our student 

“The goal of the conference is the global soap project, which body,” osberger said. “we are 
to allow participants to enrich recycles used soap from ho-also honored to host Kayongo 
their perspectives of the adversi-tels for new soap in third-world who speaks directly to our theme 
ties and benefits within diverse countries.” as a key international figure who 
academic, social and profes-Kayongo, who was a Top 10 has innovated positive change in 
sional settings,” meckes said. cnn hero in 2011, will speak developing countries.” 

“our theme this year is ‘From awareness to action: change your mind, ways & world.’ we want participants to be inspired to become catalysts for change in their communities.” 
meckes has worked with se­nior co-chair and sdB secretary Jean osberger to publicize the event, and several hundred stu­dents have already signed up to attend. 
“we worked with the career crossings office to plan this, and we have five alumnae pan­elists from the south Bend area attending,” meckes said. 
The keynote addresses will come from a wide range of about his experiences and how he became a catalyst for change, meckes said. The keynote speak­er for the high school track is elliott lewis, a news reporter and law student at the university of akron. he will discuss bira­cialism in america and his book “Fade.” 

meckes said the speakers were chosen for this year’s conference because of their backgrounds in social justice and their proven ability to influence change in their communities. 
“The goal of dslc is for partic­ipants to recognize the need for change in society and desire to create that change,” she said. “all 
paid adverTisemenT 

The live salsa band “la republica” will provide enter­tainment for the conference, osberger said, and there will also be salsa lessons in dalloway’s coffeehouse at 7 p.m. on march 
20. There also will be an alum­nae lunch march 20. 
all workshops will be in the conference rooms of the saint mary’s student center. registration for dslc is avail­able on orgsync and is open to the public. For more information about registration, visit https:// orgsync.com/56318/forms/6541 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
the novel, while Kashua dis­cussed the book’s context. novick said Kashua’s novel pro­vides a valuable arab perspec­tive on the problems of modern israel and includes “snippets of hope for his country.” 
Kashua said the novel cen­ters on the first-person narra­tives of two characters. one is an unnamed arab lawyer liv­ing in Jerusalem, and the other is a young arab social worker/ art student named amir. Both characters are arabs living in east Jerusalem and both sto­ries include detailed references to locations in the city, Kashua said. 
“The book is a lot about Jerusalem; it has specific stores, cafes, streets in Jerusalem. it is a very Jerusalem book in that sense,” he said. 
Kashua said he did not give the lawyer a name because he could not find one the fully captured his character. The lawyer is successful, has a wife and kids and is part of a group that works with israeli authori­ties on behalf of east Jerusalem arabs. 
he said the lawyer’s journey begins when he finds a love note in a used copy of Tolstoy’s “The Kreutzer sonata” which appears to be written by his wife for another man. 
amir’s journey begins when he takes a night job watching over a rich ashkenazi Jewish man who is in a coma. amir gradually begins to read the comatose young man’s books, listen to his music and wear his clothes. eventually, amir applies to art school using the young Jewish man’s name and identification. 
Kashua said both protago­nists explore ideas of culture and identity and meet at one point in the novel. 
in addition to talking about his novel, Kashua shared his personal experiences about liv­ing as an arab and a citizen in israel. 
Kashua said arab-israeli nov­elists are rare because it is often easier for arabs to be accepted 
although he is ethnically arab, Kashua writes his nov­els in hebrew because that is the language in which he was first exposed to literature and he can better utilize it to tell stories. Kashua said he has a complicated opinion of the lan­guage, which he calls his “step­mother tongue.” 
more arabs have access to his books because they are written in hebrew, since there is no way to market books in arabic in israel and very few arabic booksellers, according to Kashua. 
Kashua said he writes in arabic for television and film because he recognizes the struggle to preserve arab iden­tity through the use of arabic. 
“arabic has political and na­tional meaning. we’re in a huge struggle to protect the arab language,” he said. 
Kashua writes a popular prime-time israeli television show called “arab labor” that is primarily in arabic rather than hebrew, novick said. Kashua said he also has done some 
“Even though I am now a successful novelist, my parents still say writing is for Jews and Arabs should have a profession.” 
Sayed Kashua 
author 
writing for film and writes a column for the israeli newspa­per ha’aretz. 
“second person singular” is Kashua’s third novel and he has already begun work on his fourth, he said. his first two novels are “dancing arabs and let it Be morning,” according to the Kroc institute’s website. 
The lecture was co-sponsored by the department of theology, institute for scholarship in the liberal arts and Kroc institute for international peace studies. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




nd celebrates irish heritage 
By KATIE McCARTHY 
news writer 
The irish identity of notre dame inspires campus-wide st. patrick’s day festivities each year, and preparations are al­ready underway to pay tribute to the school’s cultural connec­tions march 17. 
in commemoration of the holiday, the department of irish 
“Now it is as much a multicultural, multiracial celebration of Americanism.” 
Brian O’Conchubhair 
Irish Studies 
professor 
language and the institute of irish of studies are sponsoring a lecture about the history of st. patrick’s day in ireland and north america today at 2 p.m. in hayes-healy hall. 
irish language and literature professor Brian o’conchubhair said american st. patrick’s day celebrations are different from traditional irish ones. The festivities in ireland were ex­panded after the celtic Tiger, a period of great economic growth in ireland in the late 1990s, he said. 
“it used to be the case that the american celebrations were much larger events than the typical mass, parade, din­ner in ireland, but that changed during the celtic Tiger,” o’conchubhair said.  “after the celtic Tiger, st. patrick’s day became a weeklong festi­val aimed at celebrating irish culture and attracting visitors to ireland. 

“it is also irish-language week where everyone is encouraged to use as much irish as possible in daily transactions.” 
over the years, the american celebration of st. patrick’s day has become less about the irish culture and more about celebrating all cultures, o’conchubhair said. 
“now it is as much a multi­cultural, multiracial celebra­tion of americanism,” he said. “historically, it [was] celebrat­ed as a triumph of irish into american culture, and now that triumph narrative has been adopted by other different ethnic groups.” 
Together with the Keough­naughton institute for irish studies, the department of irish language and literature helps tie the university to its 
“[Notre Dame] is in many ways, the pulse of Irish America.” 
Brian O’Conchubhair 
Irish Studies 
professor 

irish identity, o’conchubhair said. 
“Just look at the interest in the nd-navy game in dublin last september and captured in [the] coffee-table book ‘notre dame’s happy returns: dublin, the experience, the game,’” o’conchubhair said. “[notre dame] is in many ways the pulse of irish america.” 
Contact Katie McCarthy at kmccar16@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

Pen-pal program flourishes 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
students craving handwrit­ten correspondence in the age of digital communication can join the literacy awareness club of notre dame (land) and ex­change personal letters with middle-school children in south Bend. 
senior emily yates, president of land, said the program be­gan in 2011 to reach out to chil­dren in the community. 
“our goal is to help improve the rate of literacy in south Bend and in the united states by spreading awareness about low literacy rates,” yates said. “we focus on programs for children, since they impact future literacy rates.” 
yates said the pen-pal pro­gram currently pairs about 40 notre dame students with pen pals from the sixth grade class of Brown intermediate center. 
“as this is one of our most popular programs, we hope to expand it to more children here 
Chavez 
conTinued From page 1 
and chavez’s chosen successor, nicolas maduro. 
“a lot of it depends on what maduro will do now that he’s not in chavez’s shadow, be­cause he’s been very loyal to chavez and has hidden his own tendencies to demonstrate ab­solute loyalty,” coppedge said. “now that he doesn’t have to do that, we’ll see what kind of per­son he is. i expect he’s not a lib­eral democrat, but whether he’ll be more open [to opposition] ... remains to be seen.” 
coppedge said maduro’s ini­tial statements after the presi­dent’s death suggest he intends to keep a short leash on opposi­tion, at least in the weeks lead­ing up to the election. 
“There was a subtext that the opposition better behave itself, that this is not a time to cheer or call for radical change, it’s a time to remember our fallen leader,” coppedge said. “i think there’s a fear the opposition will try to capitalize on the moment.” 
The venezuelan govern­ment announced an election will be called within 30 days, and coppedge said he believes maduro, the candidate for chavez’s socialist party, will likely be the winner. 
“if i were to place a bet right now, i’d say maduro will proba­bly win, in part with the election coming so close after the death, he’ll get the vote,” coppedge said. “a lot of chavistas are out to prove their movement will not fall apart. ... i think they’ll be motivated to campaign hard and win.” 
while maduro is the likely victor, coppedge believes the opposition could have a sub­stantial presence in the election. 
in south Bend, and perhaps even neighboring communities,” yates said. 
notre dame students write pen-pal letters every other week, which gives the middle-school students a week to respond, yates said. 
“many letters include pictures, drawings, stickers and even small gifts,” yates said. “we have a location in laFortune where land members drop off the let­ters, and our club delivers them to a contact with the school.” 
yates said the pen-pal pro­gram is just one of the four main volunteering activities land sponsors. members also volun­teer at the robinson community learning center, the Boys and girls club, the st. Joseph county public library and the hesburgh library. 
“as president of land, i get in contact with local libraries and places that work with children and coordinate ways for people in land to volunteer,” yates said. “members of land sign up for whatever events they can attend as they become available.” 
The largest volunteering op­portunities are the open Book Festival in the fall and one Book, one michiana in the spring, yates said. The hesburgh library and the st. Joseph’s county library host these events together. 
“i hope to get plenty of volun­teers to sign up for our events with one Book, one michiana that will be happening in april,” yates said. “i also hope to begin to organize the election process for choosing a new cabinet for next year and to continue to ex­pand the club to get even more people to sign up for events.” 
yates said the club hopes to offer more volunteering op­portunities to better serve the community. 
“we can try to make a differ­ence in st. Joseph county by pro­moting literacy awareness and working with children to change the future of our local commu­nity,” she said. 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 


“There are a lot of things for people to be unhappy about, and without chavez to hold his group together, some of these complaints may lead to divi­sions,” he said. “purchasing power has been declining, pub­lic services have been declining. ... people are not happy with the extremely high crime rate.” 
although the opposition stands to benefit from econom­ic conditions, its most promi­nent leader does not appear to be mounting a power grab. 
“The opposition will probably be behind henrique capriles radonski, but he has exercised some calming leadership,” coppedge said. “he hasn’t been a polarizing leader and after chavez’s death he expressed solidarity with chavez’s family.” 
while much is uncertain for the political future of venezuela, coppedge said the change in leadership could present new opportunities for the country’s relationship with the united states, which was strained un­der the chavez regime. 
“The obama administration can act as though this can be a new opportunity to do things differently,” he said. “obama’s statement was expressing hope for better democracy and stabil­ity in venezuela, so i think the [united states] is going to be happy to talk and send out feel­ers to see whether relations can be better.” 
The supply of oil from venezuela to the united states is unlikely to be disrupted dur­ing the transition, coppedge said. 
“venezuela is not in a good economic situation,” he said. “it can’t afford to stop selling oil to the [united states]. it makes economic sense to sell to us be­cause we’re so close and have established relationships.” 
if maduro wins the election, coppedge said he is doubtful relations will improve. 
“i think it depends on whether maduro, or whoever the presi­dent [will be], is going to use the same tactics as chavez, which is to demonize the [united states] to build support at home,” he said. “i think maduro is cut from that mold.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



Tuition 
conTinued From page 1 
university of notre dame, would pay that difference,” Bear said. 
To illustrate this point, Bear said if a family bought tuition at $10,000 and the school in­creased it to $15,000 over time while the investments only grew to $11,000, the university would assume the $4,000 difference. 
“hopefully, as notre dame, we want to see that investment grow to $15,000 as well so it’s a win-win-win for everybody,” Bear said. “There are years when we’ve had growth and we’ve come out even, but there are some years where we had to absorb that risk.” 
Bear said notre dame par­ticipates in the plan despite the financial risks to encourage families to be proactive in their efforts to pay for college. 
“saving for college gives you a resource as a family so when your son or daughter is accept­ed, you already have options available for that child,” Bear said. “it’s not just where your child is admitted but also where you can afford to send him or her. 
“we’d rather see you save pre­emptively, upfront, instead of trying to manage loans on the back end,” he said. 
notre dame was one of the original schools that signed on to the plan when it be­gan in 2006, and it has more redemptions to date than any other institution, Bear said. This means more families use their prepaid tuition certificates at notre dame than at any other institution included in the plan. 
“among the private colleges [in the plan], we’ve had about 99 students who have turned in their certificates,” Bear said. “over these seven years [since 2006], that’s about 14 or 15 fam­ilies per year who have taken advantage of this benefit.” 
Bear attributes this success partially to the financial aid of­fice’s work to publicize the op­portunity to alumni and other affiliated families, but also to the strong sense of community around notre dame. 
“There’s that affinity to notre dame from generation to gen­eration in many families, and within that context there’s the sense that this is a great plan, so let’s go ahead and invest in it so our sons and daughters can also have that opportunity,” Bear said. 
The real value of the plan comes from the fact that the in­vestment is completely guaran­teed, Bear said. 
“if our tuition goes up two, three, four, five percent every year, and you have a guaran­teed investment like this, you can look at that and say ‘well, my investment is going up two, three, four, five percent every year,’” he said. “There’s no other guarantee like that out there, so it’s a very safe investment.” 
Bear said the guarantee makes this investment a wise move for any family in a posi­tion to prepay tuition in this way. 
“Tuition here is about $42,000 a year, and most families don’t have that to just shell out,” Bear said. “what you can do here is put down say, $5,000 this year, so you would be buying 12 per­cent of tuition, redeemable in the future. 
“even if you’re just putting in $200 now, maybe you’re giving up that brand new color Tv, but it’s better to do that than to pay the loans off in the future,” he said. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 


Reaction 
conTinued From page 1 
she initially reacted negatively to the announcement because she doesn’t believe dolan is the most relevant selection for the class. 
“i feel like this choice isn’t per­fect for this moment,” suarez said. “i was hoping notre dame would use this opportunity to kind of move the university for­ward, and i think this might be setting us back a couple steps.” 
suarez said she hopes dolan will present an image of the church that is relevant and acces­sible to her and her classmates. 
“i hope he talks about catholic social Teaching because i think that’s one image of the catholic church that needs to be pro­moted,” suarez said. “i hope he makes a call to the graduating student body and encourages us to use our [notre dame] de­grees to promote catholic social Teaching and help the poor and suffering.” 
senior Katie pryor said she is excited to hear dolan’s speech because he is a prominent figure in both the catholic church and the world, as demonstrated by his mention in Time magazine’s list of the 100 most influential people of the world in 2012. 
“when i heard cardinal dolan would be the commencement speaker, i was very pleased with the decision,” pryor said. “he is not just another cardinal but a cardinal that actually has a lot of substance in his views and beliefs and a lot of wonderful things to say.” 
with the ongoing discussions about the next pope, pryor said dolan is an “especially exciting” choice because he is a member of the church hierarchy. 
“cardinal dolan is even one of the people being talked about for pope, showing the great impor­tance he has worldwide in the catholic church,” she said. 
seniors Julia Kohn and rachel chisausky said while dolan is a prominent leader, they are con­cerned the speech would be rele­vant only to students that identify as conservative catholics, leav­ing others disappointed. 
“i took a moment to look him up before i formed an opinion … and everything i’ve read seems to indicate that he appears to have a political agenda rather than just being a religious figure, and i don’t agree with any of the views that his agenda suggests,” Kohn said. “i just don’t know what he’s going to talk about that’s going to be that relevant to my beliefs and opinions.” 
chisausky said she hopes dolan’s speech is not “homily 


and applies to every student in  
the graduating body and not just  
to religious people.”  
Kohn said if the university  
wanted a “famous” speaker, they  
should have sought a more relat­ 
able figure.  
“For a school the caliber of  
notre dame, that has the name  
recognition of notre dame, i feel  
like we could have gotten some­ 
one really exciting,” Kohn said. “i  
don’t know that cardinal dolan  
is as relevant to everyone as a  
different famous person would  
be.”  
senior colin campbell said he  
understands there isn’t a speak­ 
er who can please everyone,  
but he is personally excited by  
the university’s decision to give  
dolan a platform from which  
many will hear him.  
“i hope cardinal dolan helps  
AP us to understand the gifts that  
we have been given through our  
four years at notre dame and  
then provides motivation and  
style” and that it doesn’t alienate  support as we carry those bless­ 
non-religious students.  ings with us and walk out of that  
“i was disappointed, because  football tunnel for the last time,”  
i don’t really know much about  campbell said.  
him but i’m not catholic or really  
religious at all,” she said. “i just  Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski  
hope [his speech] is very open  at ajakubo1@nd.edu  

paid adverTisemenT 



Call always becomes racialized when i walk in.” 
conTinued From page 1 
sophomore amanda peña 

murphy, a native of gary, [Editor’s note: Peña is a col-ind., spent two years at the umnist for The Observer] had indiana academy, a board-also experienced a wider ing school on Ball state range of diversity in the com­university’s campus in munity around her home in muncie, ind. his encoun-los angeles. she had never ters there with students of felt like a minority until ar­many different backgrounds riving on campus for fresh-enabled him to better an-man orientation, she said, swer his friends’ questions, and then she became very murphy said. aware that her mexican heri­
 “if i came to notre dame tage made her different. straight from gary, [ind.], “i got here, and i felt like this would have been a com-a minority,” peña said. “i pletely different experience,” can’t really describe how that murphy said. “i don’t know feels, you really just feel like that notre dame would’ve you stick out. From a racial been the place for me.” standpoint, [during fresh­
man orientation] you notice Singled out when the guys go to sing to 
some moments in murphy’s the girls, they don’t serenade college career have been the minority girls. stark reminders of racial “at first i wondered if it was prejudice, he said. when a my weight, if it was because lobo said he loved meeting about their lives helped her “i would tell my [freshman friend discovered some of his i’m brown or if it was because people at notre dame from to begin to settle in at notre self] to stand up, to say some-food was missing and decid-i’m not outgoing enough different cultures and shar-dame, Jia said. thing, because those things ed to find out who had taken — you get really self-con-ing information about his “i tried to watch more Tv aren’t okay,” peña said.  “i it, murphy remembered his scious and try to assess why home. with them so i would know know that if i talk to someone shock at another student’s people view you a certain “when i meet a person what their daily lives are like i can touch them personally, response. way and why other people are from a different culture, i and what they did in their but i don’t know if these peo­
“when he asked who ate indifferent [to you] because love to learn more about their spare time, so we had more ple at the top levels can be his stuff, i said i didn’t do they don’t know how to inter-culture [and] i love allowing talking points and something effective at making changes it,” murphy said. “Then he act with you.” people to ask questions about to share,” Jia said.  “There are unless they personally talk to asked the kid who actually while walking to the my own,” lobo said.  “i love it more chinese Festivals that students — changing it at the ate it, and he said, ‘i didn’t college has issues presen-and completely eat it up. they don’t have, and i will ex-ground level first is the most do it, i’m not the black kid in tation with some friends she “i know i’m a minority here plain to them what a spring important thing.” the room.’ i looked around met during spring visitation but there’s not one time i felt festival is and what we eat for empowering minority stu­thinking there had to be an-weekend who were also mi-that was a downside to me,” that — i feel like it’s a two-dents from day one to ad-other black kid in the room, norities, peña said she was lobo said.  “i always felt it way experience.” dress discrimination will he can’t be talking about me shocked by a passing remark was an upside because people lobo said continually en-allow them to alleviate the because i wouldn’t take any-directed her way. were more interested and in-gaging in these conversations pressure on themselves to thing, i always ask first. “one of my black friends quisitive about my different helps to bring the focus deep-educate their peers about 
“This wasn’t [because i was walking with a white culture and i’m more than er than racial differences. their culture, peña said. went] in there and took stuff girl, and they came up to us willing to tell them about it.” “when you keep a conver-“if we were told the first all the time. This was ‘oh, and as i said hi to them, the Though she wanted to en-sation going, it [shows] two week of school that race is demetrius is the only black [white] girl just stared at us,” gage her peers in conversa-levels of diversity,” lobo said. an issue here, that these are kid in the room so he has to peña said.  “Then she just tion, sophomore secelia Jia “one is the racial, ethnic lev-things students feel but we 
stared at us and in this sar-said she struggled to find el and then there is the deep-want you to know that you 
castic tone looked at us, kind common threads connecting er level of diversity where can talk to any person about 
of smiled and said, ‘oh you her chinese home to the lives you’re thinking at different these things even if it’s not 
“It’s almost like guys are minorities, right?’ of her american peers. capacities and that’s when i racial discrimination, even 
they practice their … my [black] friend sarcas-“i didn’t know what to talk think people could care less if it’s just because someone 
tically replied, ‘no we’re about with the girls in my looked at you a certain way 
black jokes on 

caucasian.’ and she said, dorm [during freshman ori­and you wonder, ‘was it be-
me to see if they 

‘oh, i’m a sophomore and i entation],” Jia said. “They 
“I know that if I cause i’m brown?,’ even if it’s can say them in can say these things.’ would start a conversation 
not to get someone in trouble 
talk to someone 

mixed company ... “That was my first im-and when i say i’m from — say something.” 
I can touch them 

pression of people [at notre china the conversation just if his Keenan hall peers 
the conversation 

dame.]” stopped.  They didn’t relate personally, but had spoken on his behalf in 
always becomes 
themselves to a country far 

I don’t know if uncomfortable situations, racialized when I A new culture, a new away, they don’t know much 
these people at the murphy said he would have conversation about it or how to continue 
felt more at home in this 
walk in.” 
top levels can be 

Junior denver lobo joked the conversation.  That’s the community. 
Demetrius Murphy 

with his roommates upon biggest problem i faced when effective at making “it would have completely 
sophomore 

arriving to notre dame that i came here, because i didn’t 
changes unless changed the dynamics of his first impression of the know too much about this 
the situation if someone had 
they personally 

campus and freshman ori-country and its different re-come to my defense or even 
talk to students 

just asked him if that was be the thief.’” lar to the world portrayed in Jia said she found notre 
entation was distinctly simi-gions and places.” 
— changing it at really how he felt,” murphy murphy said he responded “american pie,” he said. But dame’s catholic character 
the ground level said. by telling that student ex-as the antics of Frosh-o sub-an added challenge in a new as a minority student, 
first is the most 

murphy and others face chal­actly why his accusation was sided, lobo said he was excit-place. 
important thing.” 

lenges at notre dame — from it offensive to be singled out. himself in a culture less re-a culture shock,” Jia said. 
groundless and why he found ed by the chance to immerse “i knew i was going to have 
Amanda Pe unknowing and unconscious 
“i also told him that an-strictive than in his home, “i am an international stu­
sophomore prejudice to  stereotyping. other thing i don’t like is that Kuwait. dent from china and i’m not 
But he still said he is grateful every time i’m around, the “Kuwait was a lot more catholic, i don’t have any re-to attend notre dame. conversation has to be about conservative … The real rea-ligion. it was definitely frus-about your ethnicity, your “i can paint this p–icture black people,” murphy said. son for shifting from Kuwait trating at the beginning, but color, your race — it’s about [of notre dame] very posi­“it’s almost like they prac-to the freedom of america it got better as i learned more the thought process.” tively, and not be lying,” tice their black jokes on me was the glass ceiling you hit about [american] culture.  i murphy said.  “But i can to see if they can say them when you’re in a business,” feel like i tried to learn more Finding a home also tell you it was a struggle in mixed company, like they lobo said.  “you can only about the culture here, and peña said she also believes and it’s a struggle to go to save up all the weird ques-go up to a certain point and that [while i] did that [my encouraging personal con-notre dame and be a diverse tions [about black culture] then you have to be arab or hall mates] learned about versation between students student.” they’ve ever wanted to ask Kuwaiti to move forward, but what i did as i grew up too.” will help to institute a change in life for when i walk into [in america] if you’re good sharing her life with her in racial attitudes at notre Contact Nicole Michels at the room — the conversation you go forward.” hall mates and learning more dame. nmichels@nd.edu 

The oBserver | THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Spirituality in the in-between

INSIDE COLUMN 

Jersey disaster 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 

it’s been a tough year to be a notre dame fan, let me tell you. 
we’ve been complaining about our sports teams since nearly their inception, dating back to the days of Knute rockne — who did way too much of that newfangled forward-passing business. 
i don’t even know why we hired that for­eigner in the first place — i heard Jebediah saban and ezekiel gruden were both available. 
But this year, there just hasn’t been much material to feast on. our football team went 12-0. hockey, women’s basketball, men’s lacrosse, men’s soccer and fencing are all top-10 squads, and countless other awards, rankings and titles have rolled in. 
it’s disgusting. 

as of last week, all we had left was manti Te’o’s 40-time and the egregious removal of flank steak night from the dining hall — which is another column for another day. Times were desperate. 
But then, adidas unveiled its new designs for notre dame basketball uniforms, and i know they were made with us in mind. They’re so easy to hate that there’s no way they were actually trying. 
The tops are some kind of soft, radioactive pastel color that resembles mint green — which is really an insult to mints and green things everywhere. The shoulders have some kind of sparkly, fluorescent straps over them that can’t quite decide if they’re wrap­ping paper or aluminum foil. 
and if there weren’t enough green crazi­ness going on, the jerseys are made of 60 per­cent recycled materials — which, i suppose, explains the wrapping paper/foil. i just feel bad for the adidas intern who had to dive through a dumpster to get the materials. 
The shorts, to their credit, find a way to be even worse. They combine the mint from the jersey top with various other shades of vomit-colored — and vomit-inducing — green to form some kind of zebra-print cam­ouflage (in case the Big east Tournament is moved from madison square garden to the amazon.) 
The socks and shoes carry out the same look, except they then seem like they were attacked by highlighter-wielding kindergarteners. 
sure, digger phelps did something similar with his teams in the seventies, but i believe even he wouldn’t ever go for the “shamrock shakes” the teams will be wearing next week. 
The letters are too small and too high. They might even come with sleeves, which is no way to gain respect on a basketball court. you can bet ara parseghian never would have let this happen. 
sorry, i’ve got more, but it’s past my bed­time. so thanks, adidas, a hater has gotta hate. 
if you need me, i’ll be back at ndnation. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Bianca Almada 
The in-Between Time 

as most people involved with this catholic university know, the catholic church is currently in the liturgical season of lent. This fact is impos­sible to miss on this campus, as the combination of ashes displayed on student’s foreheads Feb. 13, the dining halls’ not serving meat on Fridays and the commonly-heard phrase, “i can’t eat that, i gave it up for lent,” make it pretty obvious. 
like many notre dame students, i have been catholic for my entire life. i was baptized at my local church as a baby, taken to mass with my family every sunday and enrolled in catholic school since kindergarten. my parents taught me the Ten commandments, read to me from a children’s Bible and made sure i went to catechism. Therefore, this season of fasting, almsgiving and repentance is noth­ing new or unfamiliar. growing up, i never questioned any of it. For a very long time, i just assumed everyone was catholic and it was the only logi­cal lifestyle choice. religion was just something i always did. i didn’t know of any other way. 
of course, this little bubble of ig­norance did not stay intact forever. i was exposed to reality in high school 
— a reality in which people practice many different religions and in which 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
some people practice no religion at all. people asked me about my religion for the first time and i had to figure out how to answer them. after all, how meaningful can life be if you cannot even explain your own actions? you cannot go through life simply going through the motions because you become empty and purposeless. 
i did not come out of this experience as a hard-core Bible-thumper. in fact, i discovered multiple church posi­tions with which i disagreed. why are homosexuals denied marriage rights? why are devoted, capable women prohibited from leadership roles as priests? why are teachings regard­ing birth control so old-fashionably strict? however, i also discovered the things about the faith that i greatly appreciated. i came to truly value the existence of god, the importance of spirituality and the necessity of sim­ple practices such as prayer and con­fession. i am still working to figure out the absolute best way to incorporate spirituality into my everyday life, and it is often difficult to do so. 
children often just accept at face value the beliefs of their parents and communities. college, however, is the time to look critically at those be­liefs and then decide for oneself what one genuinely believes. it is the in-between time — a period of shifting from an outwardly structured lifestyle to an independently decided one. The beliefs and values of college students should still be growing and chang­ing. They should keep in mind their upbringings and previous influences, drawing on them and identifying their truths. however, they should also be open to new opinions, ideas and points of view. This is the time to ex­plore spirituality and to discover what works on the individual level. There is so much more to it than teaching from parents, individual experiences and strict dogma. There is much to learn from people of different backgrounds and from new life experiences. 
i admit to being far from the perfect catholic. i go to mass when i am not bogged down with homework, i do not agree with every church position and i accidently ate popcorn even though i gave it up for lent. however, i also admit that this is my in-between time and that i am still trying to figure out what works for me. 
The challenge for this lent and for always is to keep an open mind when it comes to spirituality. it is realizing its importance in college life and re­maining receptive to the many dif­ferent ways it can find a place in our lives. 
Bianca Almada is a freshman residing in Cavanaugh Hall. She is studying English, Spanish and journalism. She can be contacted at balmada@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The wisest mind has something yet to learn.” 
George Santayana 
Philosopher 



The oBserver | THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Nice to ‘meet’ you 
Amanda Pena 
The Bubble 

it is human nature to make immediate judgments about the people you first meet. you draw from their exterior makeup to quickly decide what kind of person you are interacting with and whether your interaction should cease or continue. are they smiling? “yes, so they’re probably friendly.” are they talkative? “not re­ally, so they might just be shy.” however, for minority students there can sometimes be a level of uncertain­ty and heightened awareness during these introduc­tions. This is especially true at notre dame. 
To clarify, i am not suggesting all minority students always have uncomfortable encounters; many have formed diverse friend groups and relationships in the notre dame community, including myself. But minus the brown sugar, my churro-colored skin tone (no mexican pun intended), curves and thick black hair make it challenging to blend in among most of my peers. surprisingly, though, that isn’t what makes me feel like a minority sometimes. 
my upbringing in southeastern los angeles exposed me to a world of gangs, drugs and low-skilled, low-wage jobs. yet here i am, a member of the Fighting irish at the prestigious university of notre dame. Back home they’re cheering for me; they’re living vicariously through me and placing the pressures of paving the way for latinos on me. But i don’t think there are many students here who know that about me, largely because few people have taken the time to get to know me and understand the challenges and pressures that have shaped my identity. 
Two weekends ago at a party, i was approached by a male caucasian student and asked, “are you asian?” asian? i never heard that one before. he justified his question by pointing out how my eyeliner made my eyes appear “squinted.” 
after telling him “no,” he said, “well you must be Thai, right?” again i told him “no.” 
“Then what are you?” he inquired. i am numb to that question now — i am asked this often — so it wasn’t difficult to respond, “i’m mexican.” 
“really,” he excitedly announced. “so what part of mexico are you from? you speak spanish, right?” 
“no, i don’t, actually.” 
he proceeded by saying, “well, that’s weird. are your parents immigrants? or how did you get here?” i then explained to him my grandparents immigrated here and my parents were the first of their siblings to be born in the united states. 
“are they still illegal then?” he asked. 
“no, they earned their citizenship shortly after im­migrating.” i replied. 
“oh, cool. well it was nice to meet you, amanda” he replied before leaving to join a circle of other students. 
nice to meet me? how did he meet me? he knows nothing about me. he doesn’t know i wasn’t taught spanish because my oldest sister’s learning dis­ability prevented her from learning both english and spanish. he didn’t know i don’t identify heavily with my mexican heritage because my family is very americanized. he never asked what my major was, what i like to do in my spare time or what dorm i live in. he made ethnic assumptions about me after i ex­plained where the brown tint of my skin color came from, and sadly he isn’t the first person to have asked me, my friends or other students questions like these. Frequent conversations with students of color have proven this. 
For what it’s worth, i know this guy did not have any ill intentions about this conversation. most people might not even think it was that big of a deal. in fact, i didn’t think it was at first until i had a chance to re­flect on it. it’s just such an awkward and unexpected thing; you choose to just roll with the punches instead of assessing the ignorance of the situation. The after­math of a conversation like this, though, can usually evoke a series of introspective questions and feel­ings of self-consciousness about why you can’t seem to make genuine connections with your peers. my first thought has never been,“maybe it’s because i’m mexican.” it’s usually, “do i talk too much? am i that boring? maybe i should have gone with the heels.” 
it’s really hard to understand why i can’t fit in with the rest of this “family” notre dame is glorified as being, but when people ask me for guacamole recipes or make jokes about why i pick up the litter someone else left behind, it’s easier to blame this discomfort on ignorance and cultural insensitivity. most people here have seldom taken the time to learn more about me, so i tend to embrace the role as their token mexican friend. i am hopeful, however, that the notre dame community will come to appreciate the individuality of each of its students — minority or not. 
Amanda Pena is a sophomore sustainable                  development studies major with a poverty studies      minor. She can be contacted at apena4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Mr. Crummett’s cookies 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

socrates was killed on charges of corrupting the youth. dustin crummett’s recent letter to the editor (“appreciating philosophy,” mar. 3) reminds us of the dangers of being a philoso­pher in the past. he suggests “things haven’t changed.” perhaps not. 
i’d like to charge him with corrupting my words. mr. crummett claims my idea of an intro­ductory philosophy class is a kind of “souped-up catechism” class. But i have little patience for those who would substitute the catechism for philosophy or even theology. philosophy is not the same thing as the teachings of the catholic church, though the two have a rather interesting relationship. as i actually state, philosophy is concerned with the “meaning and ultimate foundation of human, personal and social exis­tence.” This is one reason why non-catholics are so important to the university. in our search for meaning, they keep us catholics from taking for granted what we sometimes presume to be self-evident truths. 
i do criticize many philosophy courses for be­ing boring. mr. crummett suggests perhaps this is just the selection of subject matter, that people have “different tastes” in philosophy. people may have different tastes, but most students have little taste for the bland. i once made sugar cook­ies for some students and forgot the sugar. They decided they’d rather skip dessert. 
philosophy professors could try to teach stu­dents to do otherwise, but their students would have to be paying attention in class. socrates never had a problem with this. one might argue this was part of what made him a philosopher. it is said plato’s academy had a sign over the door. perhaps we should get one of these for malloy hall. it read, “let no one ignorant of sugar enter here.”
 Further, mr. crummett fails to take note of one significant difference between his situation and that of socrates. when socrates died, his teachings were remembered. For many students, after they pass, what their professors had to say will be tossed out like sugarless sugar cookies. 
Christopher Damian is a senior studying philosophy. He can be contacted at cdamian1@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SWEDISH HOUSE MAFIA 


PLAYLIST 



As you head out to the beach for a sunny spring break, take this playlist with you from Swedish House Mafia’s set at the United Center on Feb. 20, 2013. It’ll be sure to get you pumped and ready for all your warm-weather partying. 


“Greyhound” 
Swedish House Mafia 
“Ran Tam Tam” 
Alex Guesta vs Stefano Pain 
“Teasing Mr. Charlie/Nothing But Love/Lights” 
Swedish House Mafia 
“Wakanda” 

Dimitri Vegas & Like Mike 
“Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger/Leave The World Behind” 
Swedish House Mafia 
“Clash” 
Alesso 
“Antidote” 
Knife Party 

“Here We Go” 
Swedish House Mafia 
“Calling (Losing My Mind)” 
Sebastian Ingrosso & Alesso 
“Epic ” 

Sandro Silva & Quintino 
“In My Mind (Axwell Remix)” 
Ivan Gough & Feenixpawl 
“In the Air (Axwell Remix)” 
TV Rock ft. Rudy 


Listen to the playlist online at 
ndsmcobserver.com/scene
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 

The oBserver | THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
By EMILIE TERHAAR 
scene writer 

get to the snite as soon as you can. march 10 will signal the closing of the museum’s exhibit “Touching ground: Finding the american south.” 
attending high school in an upper-middle-class suburb of new york city has taught me that the hipster kind loves po­laroids. This exhibit is literally a whole two rooms of gigantic, mournful, heartbreakingly honest polaroids. They are the size of posters — 20 x 24 inches 
— each artful, iconic and one of a kind. 
photographer Jennifer Trausch used one of polaroid’s five hand-built 1970s monster 240-pound cameras and spent five years trucking it around the rural south, snapping pho­tos of southern people doing southern things. some of the photos are still shots of a dilap­idated home, hidden swamp, listless child, or sad old man; others are quite moving — swooshes of motion, ritual and habit. people are working at a diner, eating at a fair and watching wrestling matches. They’re all incredibly stark, bare-bones shots. 
The collection showed southern life like a carson mccullers’ novel set in the modern day. looking at “virginia 2006” was when the connection to mccullers really hit me. The photo is the clos­est to happiness the collec­tion gets. it has a girl, caught in the midst of puberty, as a focal point amongst blurry surroundings. she stares into the camera and into the eyes of anyone viewing the photo. her skinny body is held taut, as if only for a moment before she turns around or walks off. her mouth is closed, but her lips are pressed up just the tiniest bit in the corners into a smirk, as if she’s holding onto a smile and refusing it time or space on her face. 
virginia’s unending gaze struck me down and i could not help but see mccullers’ mick from her first novel “The heart is a lonely hunter.” re­examining Trausch’s collec­tion in the light of a mccullers’ novel expressed in photo­graphs opened my eyes to the temporal face of the south being displayed. it was clear Trausch was avoiding show­ing some more modern addi­tions to southern culture and was instead trying to highlight the still existent, but perhaps slowly dying, blue-collar cul­ture. she has photographs from dances, fairs, auctions, bars, diners and junk shops but avoids other perhaps equally intrinsically southern images that might involve fast food, or nascar or walmart. 
Trausch’s portraits are mainly of children, teens or the elderly. in “Jose Brothers 2009,” Trausch reflects a changing south in what i interpreted as an attempt to capture migrant workers. 
other images are slightly ter­rifying. The little bits of terror that sneak in and subside into melancholy fit with a read­ing of Trausch’s mccullers­esque style. in “Bailey’s” and “maxine” we get hints of devi­ance. “maxine” almost seemed to not belong in the collection; it’s an image of a woman’s lap with a gun resting in her hand on top of her naked, brown thigh. The picture looked right out of a coen brothers’ movie. 
“Bailey’s” was terrifying in a different way. it was one of the few nighttime pictures and seemed to show a gangster, but the only sign he was a gangster was the ill-fitting flash of the car he was driving and the be-yond-ominous glint in his eye. 
i’ve only mentioned a few of the 40-something photos in the exhibit. it is definitely worth a visit, even if you are not into photography, carson mccullers or the south. if you have 10 minutes to wait around in o’shag, stop in and take a look. The pictures will stay with you. But be quick, the exhibit ends sunday! 
Contact Emilie Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 


SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 


By WILLIAM NEAL 
scene writer 

i don’t know about you, but i have been waiting years for a quality spring-break movie adventure. i’ve also been waiting for a select few disney channel stars to finally take on a role to prove themselves as legitimate actors. But more importantly, i’ve been waiting for James Franco to take on an acting gig that would turn him into a wan­nabe, low-life gangster/rapper (silver grill and cornrows included, of course). after witnessing the international red-band trailer for “spring Breakers,” i immediately realized my prayers were answered. so, what is “spring Breakers” and why should you care? To put it simply, it will clearly be the greatest spring-break-themed movie of all time (a tough competition). 
From the start of the trailer, we find four quality-named girls, candy (vanessa hudgens), Faith (selena gomez), cotty (rachel Korine) and Brit (ashley Benson), who are tired of their “boring” college lives and want nothing more than the ultimate spring-break adventure. That’s a storyline we can all relate to, right? well, sadly, these girls don’t have the money to go down to Florida, so they resort 
By WILLIAM NEAL 
scene writer 

coming from the directorial debut of duo Jon lucas and scott moore, the writers behind “The hangover” (parts i and ii) and “The change-up,” “21 and over” delivers exactly what many of you were expecting: a college version of “The hangover.” But this is not necessarily a negative. what i found from this film was a story that, while certainly familiar and overdone, delivers solid moments of character development among a fre­quent string of laughs. while this “wild night” movie doesn’t come close to topping some others in the category, like “superbad,” it certainly suc­ceeds over the likes of “project X.” 
when i say this film is the college version of “The hangover,” that is by no means an exaggera­tion. Both films begin with the main characters in a moment of crisis followed by a flashback story to explain how they ended up in this predicament (whether it’s our leading characters stuck in the nevada desert or strolling a college campus wear­ing nothing but socks). This leads to the main sto­ry involving a guy with a major life decision in his near future (whether it’s doug getting married or Jeff chang being interviewed for medical school). despite their responsibilities, both characters will be convinced to join their friends for one wild evening (whether it’s for a bachelor party or a 21st birthday). soon, the night takes a drastic turn and to the only logical next step: They commit a series of con­venience store robberies to pay for their trip. The plan goes off without a hitch, of course, and now the girls are ready for the time of their lives down in miami. here, the four girls spend the remainder of the trailer (and prob­ably the film) in their neon bikinis and proceed to party like there’s no tomorrow. we soon meet a rapper named alien (James Franco) who announces to the massive crowds of drunken teens how “spring break can change you” and, my personal favorite line of his, “bikinis and big booties, y’all, that’s what life is all about,” a truly in­spiring moral for the film from mr. alien. after this wild montage of smoking, swimming and jumping in slow motion to dubstep, the girls get themselves into trouble as we cut to the four girls arrested and then in front of a judge (still in bikinis). 
well, that’s it for their spring-break adventure, right? wrong. For some reason, alien has taken a liking to these girls and bails them out of jail. you would think a creepy guy, who the girls have never been introduced to, with terrible cornrows, a hawaiian shirt and a gun would scare them off. But James Franco comforts them by saying, “come on, y’all, don’t be ‘spicious.” clearly, the 
leads to a series of progressively shocking and un­realistic events that put our main characters in danger. yeah, it’s the same formula, but you can’t accuse writers of ripping off their own work, espe­cially when it’s not a bad movie. 
look at Judd apatow. have you noticed all his films revolve around adults that need to grow up and accept their responsibilities (“Knocked up,” “40-year-old virgin,” “Funny people,” “This is 40”)? when a writer finds a concept that works, they’re going to find ways to continue to roll with it, and that’s not always a bad thing. “21 and over” may be familiar and barely qualify as a realistic look into college life, but audiences will attend this film for the laughs and not for a quality story. while the movie consistently delivers shock value for the sake of shock value and features every ex­pected cliché from ludicrous inebriation levels, foul language, car chases and gunplay, this film will make you laugh. 
The main cast of characters, including casey (skylar astin from “pitch perfect”), miller (miles Teller from “Footloose”) and Jeff chang (Justin chon from “Twilight”), are as obnoxious and ridic­ulous as you’d expect from a modern-day college comedy, but they deliver successfully-comedic performances and play well off one another. Their fast-paced banter results in some of the funniest moments of the film. while you get what you ex­pect from a binge comedy like “21 and over,” what’s surprising are the moments when the characters girls thought, “well, i’m sold on this guy!” after that well-structured statement because they proceed to join his crew and take their spring-break adventure to the next level. James Franco clearly makes an impact on the girls when he says “i knew y’all was special from the first time i seen you. now let’s make some trouble now,” because the second half of the trailer focuses on all five of them getting involved with drugs, theft, guns and more slow-motion dancing to dubstep. (also, someone keeps whis­pering “spring break” repeatedly through the trailer.) 
i couldn’t tell what was happening towards the end, but clearly, these girls turn into legitimate criminals who enjoy frequenting black-light clubs and traveling by speedboat. sounds like the typical lineup of traditional spring-break activities. so let’s run through the many amazing aspects of this upcoming film: we have former disney channel stars shooting guns in bikinis, James Franco in the role he was born to play and, most impor­tantly, it’s scored by skrillex. what more could a sane per­son ask for? “spring Breakers” opens everywhere march 
2. spring break forever, y’all. 
Contact William Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
reflect on their lives and how they’ve changed since the good ol’ days of high school, leading to some moments of vulnerability and growth. The issues with this film don’t come from the wild, un­realistic antics (releasing a wild buffalo, repeated­ly throwing Jeff chang off buildings), but from the forced romance arc. it becomes painfully obvious that lucas and moore don’t know how to write dia­logue for women, not to mention that the romantic interest nicole (sarah wright) delivers a stale and annoying performance that results in a pairing we just don’t care about. 
“21 and over” isn’t a fantastic film and won’t be for everyone, but it delivers in what it’s supposed to do: make you laugh. This is a film that doesn’t take itself seriously. if you’re a fan of the “wild night” genre, i’m sure you’ll find the ride enjoyable. 
Contact William Neal at wneal @nd.edu 
“21 and Over” 
Directed by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore 
If you like: Superbad, The Hangover 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Peyton shines on and off the field 

Brian Hartnett 
sports writer 
Editor’s note: This is the 10th in a 12-part series discussing the defining sportsman (or woman) of this century. In this installment, Brian Hartnett argues for Peyton Manning. Join the discussion on Twitter by using #DefiningSportsman. 
he was born into football royalty, the son of a prominent quarterback. he grew up toss­ing the pigskin in the backyard with his younger brother, now a two-time super Bowl-winning quarterback. 
But it’s what peyton manning has done on his own accord that truly sets him apart from the all-time great quarterbacks and best players to ever suit up in the nFl. 
From the beginning, manning seemed destined to be a quarterback. he grew up in new orleans under the watch­ful eye of his father archie, a former star for ole miss and the saints. although he rebelled against his pop by choosing to attend Tennessee, he had a stel­lar college career and followed it up by being selected first in the 1998 nFl draft by the indianapolis colts. 
Few teams have ever made a better pick. in just a few years, manning transformed the colts, a team best known for sneaking away from Baltimore, into one of the nFl’s powerhouses. 
he did it through his explo­sive arm and his precise com­mand of the team’s no-huddle offense. he did it by forming a strong rapport with receiv­ers like marvin harrison and reggie wayne, who he helped make into household names. he did it by being an ironman and starting his first 227 career games, which puts him behind only Brett Favre’s incredible streak of 321 consecutive starts. 
while helping transform the colts, manning put up stats most nFl quarterbacks could only dream of. he’s thrown for more than 4,000 yards in all but two of his 14 seasons, never thrown fewer than 26 touch­downs in a season, passed for a then-record 49 touchdown passes in 2004 and has a career completion percentage of 65.2 percent. he has plenty of hard­ware to show for these efforts — he’s won four mvps, more than any other player in nFl history. 
yes, critics will gripe about manning’s lack of other hard­ware, most notably multiple super Bowl rings. despite playing for several excellent indianapolis teams, he’s only won one super Bowl and has struggled in several important playoff games over the years. 
But people tend to forget that without manning, the colts would probably be about as relevant as, say, the Jaguars. in 2006, he won the super Bowl despite playing on a team that allowed 5.33 rushing yards per attempt, the seventh-worst figure in nFl history. 
For further evidence, look at how drastically indy’s fortunes turned when manning sat out the 2011 season with a severe neck injury. The colts went from a 10-6 playoff squad the year before to a 2-14 team that finished with the worst record in the league. 
although manning departed indianapolis after that sea­son, he moved out to denver and helped lift the Broncos to the top spot in the aFc, si­lencing any doubts about his potentially career-threatening neck injury with a campaign that earned him the title of comeback player of the year. even at the age of 36, manning still has enough infectious enthusiasm and energy to con­vince everyone he is nowhere close to finished. 
But, as good as manning is on the field, it is his actions off the field that help earn him the title of a true “sportsman.” 
he has set the bar for other athletes in terms of marketing and promotion. manning is one of the few athletes who could just as easily find a home on the big screen and actually seems to enjoy being a pitchman — he’s been in some memorable spots for direcTv, mastercard and Buick, among others. 
equally important, he’s also managed to remain scandal-free in an era during which nearly all the top athletes seem to make the tabloid pages as often as the sports pages. married to his college sweet­heart since the early days of his career, he’s gained notice for his classy gestures. manning supported his younger brother eli as the giants won two super Bowls and he congratulated ray lewis after the ravens topped the Broncos in last season’s nFl playoffs. 
whether you support him or not, it’s hard not to admire how manning goes about his busi­ness and achieves success while still remaining down-to-earth. with his combination of im­mense skill and endearing per­sonality, he’s exemplified the best sports has to offer. For that, he is worthy of the title “defin­ing sportsman.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ND SOFTBALL 

Team rides streak into break 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 

The irish carry an eight-game win streak into spring break as they prepare to travel to arizona and california. 
notre dame (12-5) will first head to Tempe, ariz. for the arizona state diamond devil invitational beginning saturday. The squad will face uc davis, new mexico state and no. 3 arizona state. 
The irish will then travel to Fullerton, calif., for the Judi garman classic where they will face cal state Fullerton and no. 16 arizona on march 13 and 14, re­spectively. The team will conclude the break at the uc riverside Tournament in riverside, calif., on march 15 and 16 when they will take on northern illinois and iona. 
senior catcher and captain amy Buntin said notre dame hopes its streak will continue during the break. 
“going undefeated last week­end was huge for our momentum rolling into spring break,” she said. “we will be playing some good competition [over the break].” 
since the team has been solid lately, Buntin said the irish have not been concentrating on any­thing too specific at practice but rather are aiming to maintain their consistently high level of play. 
“we’re just focusing on the fundamentals and getting a little better each practice,” she said. 
Timely hitting has been impor­tant for the irish and helped gar­ner sophomore outfielder emilee Koerner her second-straight Big east honor of the season. after be­ing named to the Big east honor roll last week, Koerner earned Big east player of the week for her performance at last week­end’s diamond 9 citrus classic in Kissimmee, Fla. 
Koerner batted .500 over the weekend, going 6-for-12 during four irish victories. she kicked off the weekend by going 3-for-3 with a double, triple and grand slam in notre dame’s 14-3 win over Boston college on march 2. 
“last weekend we hit especially well,” Buntin said. “one through nine in the lineup did their job at the plate.” 

although the irish have enjoyed recent success, Buntin said the squad has stayed level-headed and concentrated on keeping their play consistent. 
“our mentality for this week hasn’’t changed,” she said. “we are taking one game at a time this week and focusing on one oppo­nent at a time. if we stay focused on playing notre dame softball, the rest will take care of itself.” 
The irish will open their west coast trip against uc davis on saturday at 9 a.m. in Tempe, ariz 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 

irish head to championships 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports writer 

To wrap up an outstanding year, notre dame will head to Fayetteville, ark. this week­end for the ncaa indoor Track and Field championships. after three-peats by the Florida men’s team and the oregon women’s team, notre dame will try to break out as an underdog and get their first indoor track and field championship. 
over the past month, the notre dame women’s team has been great, winning the Big east championships and even setting three school records in the 60-meter hurdles, mile, and 4x400-meter relay at last week­end’s alex wilson invitational. after these two strong showings, the irish girls have cracked the top 25, coming in at 17 this week. 

FOR SALE 

110 E. Pokagon, Large home near ND. 574-277-3910 ask for Jackie 
not to be outdone, the irish men have also had strong show­ings, as they finished second in the Big east championships. sophomore chris geisting had an especially strong meet at the notre dame-hosted alex wilson invitational, as he set a school record of his own in the men’s 400-meter. 
in Fayetteville, giesting will be one of several irish stars compet­ing. Junior parick Feeny will be competing alongside giesting. like giesting, Feeney will face off in a field of 16 for the men’s 400-meter championship. 
only Florida and pittsburgh have two runners in this event, with each of their slower runners turning in slower times than both giesting and Feeney, who have run the event in 46.05 and 
46.12 seconds, or sixth and ninth in the field, respectively. 
For the women, senior rebecca Tracy will look to build on her school record of 4:33.53 in the mile, which ranks sixth nation­ally. sophomore Jade Barber also won her event last week, finish­ing the 60-meter hurdles in only 
8.13 seconds, for another school record. 
in addition to those runners, women’s teams for the 4x400­meter relay and the women dis­tance medley will run. in the distance medley, look out for sis­ters, junior alexa and freshman danielle aragon, who are part of a fifth-ranked team for the event. 
The ncaa indoor Track and Field championships will take place this Friday and saturday, march 8 and 9, in Fayetteville, ark. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
needs confidential support or as-
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love sistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancy­support@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
MEN’S TENNIS 

irish travel south for matches 
ND prepares for 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
The no. 15 irish are heading south for spring break, to take on no. 9 georgia, uaB and georgia Tech during their trip to warmer climates. 
“we’re using it for the op­portunity to get outdoors, to be able to do practice and start the transition from in to out,” irish coach Jay louderback said. “hopefully the weather will be fine and we get eight days of playing and practicing outside.” 
notre dame’s road trip be­gins saturday morning, giv­ing the irish three days of practice on outdoor courts before facing georgia (7-1) on Tuesday. 
“They’re always a very tough team, and it’s good for us to go down there because the ncaas are at georgia a lot,” louderback said. “a year from this spring they’re back at georgia, so it’s always good for us to go down there and play as often as we can.” 
The Bulldogs’ only loss so far this season has come at the hands of no. 3 ucla in the iTa national indoor champi­onship semifinals last month. They will host both ole miss and mississippi state before the irish come to call. 
notre dame will play uaB (8-3) in Birmingham, ala., two days later. louderback said the Blazers are still some­thing of a mystery to the irish as this will be the teams’ first meeting. uaB opened the sea­son with four-straight wins and have now won two in a row. They will visit Tulane and louisiana-monroe before returning home to play notre dame on march 14. 

The irish finish their south­
“We’re using it for the opportunity to get outdoors, to be able to do practice and start the transition from in to out.” 
Jay Louderback 
Irish coach 

ern swing at georgia Tech (5­
4) on march 16. notre dame has already beaten the yellow Jackets once this season, winning 4-3 at the iTa Kick­off weekend tournament in lincoln, neb., in January. 
“i’m sure it’ll be another tight one there; they’ve had a good year since we played them, so we’re looking for­ward to seeing us play them again,” louderback said. “when we go into the acc we’ll be playing them every 
paid adverTisemenT 

year, so it’ll be a match that 
outdoor play 
will end up a rivalry.” 
georgia Tech has gone 4-3 since losing to the irish, and they haven’t dropped a match point in its last two match­es against north Texas and miami (ohio), winning both 4-0. 
The irish, who have not played since losing to duke 5-2 at home sunday, will have a nine-day break from com­petition before they play the Bulldogs. louderback said it couldn’t come at a better time. 
“we’ve played a lot. as of sunday we’d played three matches in four days. we re­ally hadn’t had a break,” louderback said. “we’ve got some kids who are banged up a little, and it gives them the chance to rest.” 
The irish begin spring break action against the Bulldogs on the outdoor courts at the dan magill Tennis complex in athens, ga., at 1 p.m. on Tuesday. They’ll be in action again against the Blazers at the uaB Tennis courts at 2 p.m. on Thursday. notre dame finishes its road trip with a noon tilt against the yellow Jackets at Byers Tennis complex in atlanta, ga., on march 16. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
Fresh off a 4-1 home victory over no. 13 illinois, the irish will head to alabama for spring break to practice outdoors and play in the Blue gray national Tennis classic starting march 15. 
notre dame (8-5) has won three of its last four matches, including wins over familiar rivals in then-no. 21 michigan and illinois. although the team will face unfamiliar opponents in the Blue gray national Tennis classic, the irish have extensive experience at the event taking place in montgomery, ala. 
“it’s one of the really special events in college tennis and this is our 21st appearance ino22 years in that event,” irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “we are excited about being down there. 
“we don’t know a lot of the other teams. we haven’t seen them and there isn’t anybody from the midwest and so we just want to play well.” 
The irish will fly to Birmingham, ala., on Friday and make their way to Tuscaloosa, ala., to practice for five days on outdoor courts. The team will then compete in the eight-team bracket tourna­ment Friday, march 15 through sunday, march 17. 
notre dame has played every one of its spring season match­es indoors so playing outdoors will be a welcome change, Bayliss said. 
“any spring sport participant or coach is excited for the warm weather that a spring break trip brings and we’re no excep­tion,” Bayliss said. “i know our guys will be looking forward to getting outside and playing in warm weather and seeing what the rest of the tennis world experiences everyday.” 
But while the team is look­ing forward to the nice weather and opportunity to compete outdoors, it will also need to adapt to the different playing conditions, Bayliss said. 
“[playing outdoors] is a tre­mendous adjustment, much more than you would think,” Bayliss said. “one of the things that you have to adjust to is sound. … a player doesn’t real­ize how much he depends on his sense of sound to know how hard the ball is hit and where it’s going. 
“The second factor would be wind. even if it’s not very windy, indoors the ball is pretty much always going to land where you think it will. outdoors, you’re dealing with different condi­tions, wind being the most stringent one.” 
The irish have won the event several times, with their most recent championship coming in 2007. however, Bayliss said the team is keeping its focus on improving everyday instead of on focusing on taking home the championship. 
“The expectation would be to continue to win and build our résumé,” Bayliss said. “The goal from here forward is to contin­ue to improve individually and collectively. each of our play­ers has some things they need to do to become better and our team needs to do a few things as well. i think continuing to improve our doubles is one of the goals and learning to serve out and finish matches would be another.” 
The irish will begin compe­tition Friday, march 15 when the Blue gray national Tennis classic begins in montgomery, ala. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 



The oBserver | THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

MEN’S LACROSSE 

Team prepares for two more top-15 opponents 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
at first glance, it would seem to be another non-conference chal­lenge, another ranked opponent for notre dame. But looks can be deceiving. 
The no. 2 irish (3-0) have played three top-10 teams head­ing into saturday’s clash with no. 15 hofstra at arlotta stadium. notre dame defeated then-no. 4 duke 13-5 to begin the season before downing then-no. 8 penn state 10-9 in overtime and then-no. 9 north carolina on saturday in triple overtime. But the irish have yet to face an opponent like the pride (3-1). 
“we’ve got a lot of respect for [hofstra],” irish coach Kevin corrigan said. “They’ve got a re­ally good team. But they’re a lot different than what we’ve been playing against. unlike the three teams we just played, they’ll try to hold the ball on us a little bit and slow the game down and re­ally control the tempo and make it a limited-possession game.” 
in three fast-paced games, the irish and their opponents have averaged nearly 19 goals com­bined per contest. The pride, meanwhile, have combined for just 16.5 goals per game against sacred heart, princeton, Fairfield and harvard thus far. 
corrigan said his team will have to strike a balance between cher­ishing each possession and not getting too defensive. 
“That’s a different kind of game,” corrigan said. “it puts different kinds of pressure on you. you value your possessions without getting caught up in playing too slow. But you’ve got to be careful to not end up play­ing too much defense over the course of the day, too. it’s a little bit of a different challenge.” 
a stretch of three games — two of which were away and two of which went into overtime — coupled with midterms week will present another challenge for notre dame heading into saturday, corrigan said. 
“certainly, coming out of the last few weeks, midterms [week] is always a hard time for our guys,” corrigan said. “you have to pay real attention to how much energy your guys have and what your schedule is and everything.” 
But another balancing act awaits corrigan and the irish on the other side of saturday’s matchup with hofstra. notre dame will remain on campus for much of spring break before traveling to colorado to face off with yet another top-ranked op­ponent, no. 7 denver. corrigan will again juggle resting and recovering with avoiding leth­argy against the pioneers. 
“[during spring break] they have too much time on their hands,” corrigan said. “you’ve got to be careful they don’t get lethargic from just kind of sitting around waiting for practice every day. Finding that right balance is always something you’ve got to pay attention to.” 
The irish will leave south Bend on march 15, the day be­fore the game, in order to avoid an awkward acclimation to the increased altitude at the sports authority Field at mile high in denver. 
“it’s definitely something they notice,” corrigan said of the alti­tude. “But you kind of get used to what it is. But, again, that’s one of the reasons we’re going out late. with the altitude, you either want to get out there eight days ahead of time or you want to go out right before the game. so we’re going to go right before the game. 
“But the first couple of times you get tired, you feel like, ‘oh my gosh i can’t breathe, i can’t catch my breath.’ it’s just some­thing you have to adjust to, that feeling. once you kind of get past that feeling that you’re not going to catch your breath and realize that you are, then it’s not as big of a challenge as they’d make it out to be.” 
what will be challenging, corrigan said, is taking on a high-powered squad like denver that is averaging 14 goals per game. 
“They can score goals in bunches,” corrigan said. “you really kind of have to be careful with them that you don’t give up any big runs, that you kind of make them earn every goal. if you let your guard down for a second, they’ll run numbers up on you. offensively, they may be as challenging a team as we play.” 


The marquee matchups con­tinue as the irish face hofstra on saturday at noon in arlotta stadium. notre dame is back in action march 16 against the pioneers at sports authority Field at mile high in denver at 
6:30 p.m. eT. 
Sports writer Matthew Robison contributed to this story. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmo­naco@nd.edu 


BASEBALL 

Notre Dame heads west for Dodgertown Classic 
markson said this weekend’s keep battling. i’m sure we’ll find Tuesday followed by a three-competition brings notre dame success as long as we play our game series at cal poly starting a welcome challenge. game.” Thursday. The california trip 
“we’ve experienced some suc-on saturday, notre dame will will be the longest road trip for cess early and now we’re going see a young usc lineup that has the irish this regular season. in and facing some good teams,” struggled at times to put runs on “obviously, it will be tiring, markson said. “This will be a the board during the early part but everybody else has to play real test to see where we stand.” of this season. many of those basically the same amount of 
sophomore outfielder ryan games came against strong op-games we do [because] it’s their Bull agreed the irish will look ponents, though. while the spring break trip,” Bull said. “it to build upon their early season Trojans (6-5) may lack some of can be a grind at times, but if we success. the star power of ucla (9-2), keep our nose to the grindstone 
“i think we’re playing very the irish won’t be taking them and keep on going we’ll be fine.” good baseball, we just need to lightly. markson said the eight-day stay clean defensively,” Bull said. “especially after last week-california swing will be a time “our pitching is outstanding end, losing to a team we think for the irish to count on the vet-right now. we just need to keep we should have beat, we’re go-erans who have been through having some good at bats and ing into [this weekend] with the long road trips before. i think we’ll have a very good mentality that we think we’re “For the older guys, we’ve done showing out in california.” capable of beating anybody, but these seven- and eight-day trips 
notre dame has swung the bat also anybody is capable of beat-last spring break in san antonio well as a team and no one has ing us,” markson said. “we’re and louisiana,” markson said. “it been more consistent than Bull, not taking anything for granted, is definitely a mental challenge, who leads the team with a .395 but we’re also going in with the but aside from the freshmen, 
opening game against no. 12 batting average through the first confidence that we think we can everybody has been through it 
By JOHN SANDBERG 

sports writer ucla. notre dame will take on 10 games. beat anybody.” before. That’s the job of the up­usc on saturday before clos-Friday’s game pits the irish in sunday’s finale, the perclassmen is to help the fresh-
no. 22 notre dame travels to ing out the tournament sunday offense against ucla’s experi-irish will see a well-rounded men and sophomores and make the west coast this weekend against no. 17 oklahoma.The enced pitching staff, which is oklahoma team that is third it a little easier for them because looking to improve on their 8-2 dodgertown classic, which has one of the deepest and most tal-in the Big 12 with a team bat-we’ve done it before.” record and climb higher in the previously been held at dodger ented in the nation.“we’ve seen ting average of .299 and fifth in The action kicks off Friday at rankings as they compete in stadium, will alternate between some good arms with virginia team era at 3.46. over spring 9 p.m. espT between the irish the dodgertown classic in los ucla’s Jackie robinson stadium Tech and Tennessee,” Bull said. break, the irish will continue and Bruins at Jackie robinson angeles. and usc’s dedeaux Field due to “we know that we’re going to their swing through california stadium in los angeles. 
The irish will face their tough-dodger stadium’s ongoing off-go up there and see some good by traveling up the coast for a est tests to date over the week-season renovations. competition … but i think we Tuesday afternoon matchup Contact John Sandberg end, starting with Friday’s irish senior outfielder charlie have to just go up there and against uc santa Barbara on at jsandbe1@nd.edu 


WOMEN’S ROWING 

Irish travel for their first race 
By BRENDAN BELL 
sports writer 
The women’s rowing team will compete in its first race of the spring season over break, as the irish will travel to oak ridge, Tenn. for the oak ridge/cardinal invitational on march 16 and 17. 
sophomore stella willoughby said the team’s spring break trip to Tennessee will provide an opportunity for the team to improve early in the season.“spring break is our big week to race against each other,” willoughby said. “There are formal races, but in a more informal setting and so it has a more relaxed feel.” 
notre dame will send be­tween 35 and 40 women out of the team’s approximately 80 rowers. 
“The selection for the race was pretty rigorous and it is pretty exciting for all the girls racing.” willoughby said. “we will be training about three times per day and it is usually a good time to bond and grow closer and synchronize in the boat.” 
willoughby said the team is highly motivated this sea­son and geared to perform well this weekend. 
“we were ranked as 19th in the country preseason, and we finished 15th last year, and so it is motivation for us,” willoughby said. “That is our ultimate goal to win Big easts and get to the ncaa tournament.” 
part of this determination has shown itself in the work­outs the irish rowers have completed over the past few months. 
“Training has been awe­some, it has been really tough and according to the upper classmen it has been one of the hardest seasons,” willoughby said. “ That be­ing said, it has remained as such a big team with around 80 girls and that means walk-ons are not quitting and are really enjoying it.” 
according to willoughby, the training will not only benefit the irish during their trip to Tennessee but also throughout the season. 

“we have had a big cardio buildup and that will be ben­eficial as the season goes on and we know that we have the training needed at the end of the season during the conference and national sea­son,” she said. 
willoughby said the invita­tional will provide the irish an opportunity to measure themselves against other schools.“These races give us an opportunity to size up the other teams and see how the other teams are looking early on.” willoughby said. 
on march 16, notre dame will have its first race against duke and Kansas followed by a race against virginia and georgetown.  virginia was ranked no. 1 in the preseason and also won the national championship last year. on march 17, the irish will race louisville and miami. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Notre Dame hosts regionals 
given up in their victory over wayne state were the sole blemishes on an impeccable meet, as they went on to shut out ohio state to win gold. 
not to be outdone, the men’s squad defeated the top seeded Buckeyes to win a gold of its own, with the men’s sa­bre squad and women’s epee capturing the other two golds for the irish. 
it’s strong performances like these which have sopho­more foilist madison Zeiss optimistic for this weekend’s meet. 
“This meet is much more individual. … you’re going up against members of your own team just as much as fenc­ers from other teams,” Zeiss said. “But [the conference tournament] definitely gave everyone on the team a big confidence boost.” 
The irish have a track re­cord of sending twelve fencers to the ncaa championship – the maximum number pos­sible – and Zeiss doesn’t see any reason why this year would be different, pointing out that as the top-ranked team in the region, even if someone has a bad meet the squad is likely to pick up one of  wildcard spoty. 
The meet kicks off saturday and continues sunday at the castellan Family Fencing center in the Joyce center. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu. 

By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
coming off a dominat­ing performance last week to capture the midwest Fencing conference title, the irish now look to carry that momentum into the ncaa midwest regional meet this weekend held at notre dame. 
The two-day event has the irish going up against many familiar foes for coveted spots in the ncaa championships, held in san antonio on march 21-24. with only five spots up for grabs in foil and epee and four in sabre, it could make for a very competitive meet, especially with fellow top-10 teams ohio state and northwestern involved. 

despite the strong com­petition, the irish have to be confident after their perfor­mance last weekend in the midwest Fencing conference championship, riding four gold medal wins and appear­ances in all six weapon finals to capture the team’s third conference title in four years. 
The women’s foil squad was particularly impres­sive for the irish, as the lady irish shutout their first two opponents. The two points 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
event marks last chance to qualify 

By MATT UNGER 
sports writer 
Following a second-place finish in the Big east champi­onships, the irish will focus its attention on qualifying for the ncaa championships. They return to action from march 14-16 when they compete in the ncaa Zone diving Qualifier in west lafayette, ind. 
Five irish divers, including senior Jenny chiang and soph­omore allison casareto, will compete against other divers from the midwest region for one of eight spots in the ncaa diving championships. They will represent the irish in the 1-meter, 3-meter and platform diving events. 
“There’s not as much turn­around time as usual between the Big east championships and this meet,” chiang said. “so we need to focus on keep­ing momentum from the Big east going and not looking at that event as the end of our season.” 
chiang looks to qualify for the second year in a row for the ncaa championships. last season, she finished 17th at the pinnacle event of the season and narrowly missed earning all-american honors by one place. 
chiang and casareto both performed well at the Big east championships in indianapolis last weekend as they claimed titles in the 3-meter and 1-meter dives, respectively. 
chiang became the first diver in Big east history to win championships in the same event four years in a row. But her fourth title in the 3-meter dive did not lack drama as she earned 329.85 points to beat the second-place competitor by just 0.85 points. casareto finished third in the 3-meter dive. 
The two divers swapped places in the 1-meter event as casareto captured her first career Big east champion­ship with a score of 311.30. meanwhile, chiang placed third with 297.60 points. 
“[casareto] is one of the best 
“There’s not as much turnaround time as usual between the Big East championships and this meet” 
Jenny Chiang 
senior diver 
competitors i’ve ever seen,” chiang said. “she performs at her peak at a meet and does something you’ve nev­er seen her do, and she’s got great things in her future as a sophomore.” 
in the platform dive at the Big east championships, fresh­man lindsey streepey placed highest amongst irish divers with a third-place finis, and she will join her teammates this weekend atQncaa qual­irying meet. 
The irish divers will travel to west lafayette, ind., to com­pete in the ncaa Zone diving Qualifier on march 14-16 
Contact Matt Unger at munger@nd.edu 


The oBserver | THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

irish take focus into spring break 

By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 
no. 10/6 notre dame will look to continue its momentum over spring break after rout­ing detroit 22-1 on Tuesday. The irish (4-0) host Boston on saturday before travel­ing to nashville, Tenn., to face vanderbilt on march 13. 
against the Titans at the loftus center, 12 differ­ent notre dame players scored. irish coach christine halfpenny said her team will utilize its deep roster to con­tinue producing offensively against the Terriers (1-1) and commodores (1-6). 
“i think when you use our depth the way we use it and we find the chemistry, sometimes it’s not the best seven out there, it’s the best seven together,” she said. “i think that the beauty is the healthy competition on this team and everyone is starting to understand their roles.” 
Though two games, Boston has already played two ranked teams. it beat no. 17/14 massachusetts on Feb. 27 before falling to no. 13/13 dartmouth on wednesday. The Terriers finished 11-6 last sea­son, including a perfect 6-0 in the american east conference. senior attack danielle etrasco led Boston with 58 goals last season and leads the team again with five goals so far this season. 
“They’re very well coached, they’re tough, they’re physi­cal,” halfpenny said of the Terriers. “i think that they uti­lize their personnel, they have a very high iQ. They know what they’re doing, they know why, they stick to the game plan and make great adjustments.” 
last season, notre dame held off a second-half charge to beat the Terriers 14-11 in Boston. halfpenny said her fa­miliarity with Terriers coach liz robertshaw in addition to last season’s history will make for another tough contest. 
“last year we had a really strong start against them and they never gave up,” halfpenny said. “we’re ready for a 60-min­ute fight with them, this is go­ing to be a slugfest. i know the head coach really well, as a matter of fact we started our coaching careers together as assistant coaches at Brown, so it’s always a fun game when you have a positive rivalry, a friendly rivalry there. But we want this game.” 
vanderbilt has struggled this year after finishing last season 8-8. despite the discrepancy in team records, halfpenny said the irish are excited to focus solely on lacrosse in preparing for the commodores. 
“our team has really good structure, we have great lead­ership so i think our girls know exactly what we need to do to come out and be ready for [vanderbilt],” she said. “we’re all set to prepare hard … Thursday, have a great pre­game practice on Friday, and kick off an awesome spring break where we get to almost act like professional lacrosse players for a week, so we’re ac­tually really excited.” 
notre dame hosts Boston at 3 
p.m. on saturday before facing vanderbilt in nashville, Tenn., at 4 p.m. on march 13. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
divers travel to last qualifier 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 

while their swimming teammates will have to play the waiting game to see whether they will ad­vance to the ncaa cham­pionships, members of the notre dame diving team will have one final opportunity to earn a spot during next week’s ncaa Zone diving Qualifier. The meet will take place march 14-16 at the Boilermaker aquatic center in west lafayette, ind. 
The irish will compete in Zone c, meaning they will dive against Big Ten pow­erhouses indiana, purdue and ohio state, along with a strong Kentucky squad. irish diving coach caiming Xie said that quartet will present the strongest competition from the regional schools at the meet. 
“That’s the top four,” caiming said. “Those are the strongest four teams on the men’s side. others like us, michigan, michigan state, eastern michigan and miami (ohio) are probably on a sec­ondary step.” 
The irish will not send anyone to dive off the plat­form, one of three diving events. Because the rolfs aquatic center does not have a platform, the team is un­able to practice the event. The absence of participation in this event will make scor­ing points more difficult for the irish.The irish will in­stead focus their efforts on the two remaining events, the one-meter and three-me­ter springboards. per ncaa rules, if a diver achieves a 
“I think maybe two or three people will make the final.” 
Caiming Xie 
Irish diving coach 

qualifying score in one of the three events, he may also enter the other two events. divers need to score a 300 to qualify for the ncaa cham­pionships in the one-meter dive and a 320 to qualify for the three-meter dive. 
senior ryan Koter and sophomores michael Kreft, nick nemetz, Ted wagner and John andrade all reached a qualifying score in at least one of the three events, so they will dive off both springboards at the meet. Qualifying scores can be accomplished at any of the team’s official meets, including last weekend’s 
paid adverTisemenT 
Big east championships in indianapolis where the irish captured the conference title. 
Kreft earned the award for men’s Big east co-diver of the meet at the conference championships after finish­ing in the top six in all three diving events. To reach the ncaa cchampionships, though, divers must attain more than a set score. They need to finish within a cer­tain place in each event to advance, and Zone c will only send seven divers this year to ncaas. The number of invitations from each zone depends on how well that zone did at ncaas the year before. 
with the shortage of spots and the excess of competi­tion, caiming said achieving a qualifying spot in the ncaa championships will be no easy task for irish divers. 
“i think maybe two or three people will make the final,” he said. “i think it will be hard for us…because our zone is a tough zone. But i hope they have a good meet next week.” 
notre dame willtbegin the ncaa Zone diving Qualifier in west lafayette, ind., on march 14 with the one-meter springboard prelims. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu. 




ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

nd hosts tourney in arizona 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
now three weeks since their last tournament, the irish gear up for their second appear­ance this spring in mesa, ariz. at the clover cup. 
after finishing seventh at the seminole mash-up invitational in Tallahassee, Fla. on march 17, the no. 25 irish had the past few weeks to focus on preparing for their next tournament of their season. 
“Basically, we just came back from the first tournament and began working on how the girls played individually,” irish head coach susan holt said. 

overall, holt said that the team did not play its best at the mash-up, but she said she is proud of the progress the team has made. 
“we were ready for that tournament, but we didn’t ex­ecute,” holt said. “with that being said, we are ready to get back at it.” 
holt said that practice has been key over the past few weeks. 
“we all have had things to work on,” holt said. “we’ve practiced well every day and worked hard.” 
at this point in the season, the team’s mindset and prog­ress has come to develop, holt said. 
paid adverTisemenT 

“The girls know individually that they are all good players, but they also know that collec­tively when they are playing well we can compete with the better teams in the country,” holt said. 
The irish will go up against some of the top teams in the country this weekend, includ­ing no. 11 Texas Tech and no. 27 northwestern. holt be­lieves this is a great opportu­nity for her team to prove itself competitively. 
“it’s a matter of really show­ing up and playing this time,” holt said. “when it’s time to play, we have to perform.” 
with notre dame as the host of the clover cup, the irish have even more of a reason to step up and perform. holt said the course selection will be advantageous to the team’s performance. 
“a lot of the girls are famil­iar with the course,” holt said. “going to a course that is fa­miliar is very helpful.” 
From the mesa area herself, freshman lindsay weaver will look to pave a path to­ward victory for the irish this time around after a successful eighth-place individual finish in Tallahassee. 
lindsay and the rest of the team are ready and eager to get back on the course, holt said. 
“They are excited and ready to redeem themselves,” holt said. 
The irish continue their spring season Friday through sunday at the clover cup hosted by notre dame at the longbow golf club in mesa, ariz. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
MEN’S GOLF 

irish return to schenkel invite 

By D.H. KIM 
sports writer 
earlier in the fall, the irish had come off a superb finish at the georgetown invitational where they finished second overall, boosting their rankings which climbed just outside the top 100 mark. 
The irish would need to make the top 81 to make the ncaa fi­nals. The team had great depth and experience going into georgetown with leadership from senior paul mcnamara, junior andrew lane and junior niall platt. at the georgetown invitational, mcnamara had a phenomenal run to tie for sixth place (214) and get the irish going. mcnamara led the entire tourna­ment with 14 birdies during the event. 
andrew lane played his sea-son-best 71 strokes (even) to take a share of 11th place, the best finish of his notre dame career (217). The irish will resume their spring season carrying the posi­tive feel and momentum from georgetown to the schenkel e-Z­go invitational in statesboro, ga. at the Forest heights country club international. They are sched­uled to face three of the toughest opponents in the country in­cluding defending national cham­pions Texas, defending schenkel invitational champion alabama and a top-five Florida team. 
mcnamara, lane and platt all have experience playing in the schenkel invitational. This will be the fifth year that the irish will be playing in the event, and head coach Jim Kubinski is confident that they will improve from their last year’s 12th-place finish.
 “This is one of the oldest events in collegiate golf and notre dame has been playing there since ’05 which makes it very special and important for us to do well,” coach Kubinski said. 
The irish look to improve their history at schenkel which has a reputation for being tricky on the green. The bent georgian grass is typically known to be slick, which makes putting and placement shots difficult. 
“i would call i the mini-masters. it’s not as big as augusta national golf club but the grass is really smooth and fast making it similar and challenging,” coach Kubinski said. 
The schenkel invitational will be a test for the irish they look to improve their rankings and make it to the top 81 to qualify for finals. 
“There will be a good number of highly ranked teams giving us a good feel of what the playoffs will be like,” Kubinski said. “right now we want to carry positive momentum from our 2nd place at georgetown and keep getting better.” 
The irish certainly look to con­tinue the strong run and domi­nate at the three-day schenkel e-Z-go invitational from march 15 to march 17 in statesoboro, gia. 
Contact D.H. Kim dkim16@nd.edu 


CCHA 
conTinued From page 20 

would play the winner of the Falcons and lakers. notre dame has had success against both this year. The irish swept both Bowling green and lake superior state in the compton Family ice arena, including vic­tories over the falcons just last weekend and the lakers before winter break. notre dame also split a pair of games at Bowling green earlier in the year for a 3-1 season record against the Falcons. 
however, the opponent that could potentially help notre dame’s ncaa tournament chances the most is the team the irish are least likely to play: northern michigan. not only would the wildcats have to win at michigan to face notre dame against Tuc schools. By fac-against the wildcats in the regu­
success against the huskies has but the spartans would also ing the wildcats in the second lar season, notre dame’s Tuc 

have to upset alaska. round, notre dame could add record would move from 7-9-3 Tournament greatly helped notre dame’s na­
conTinued From page 20 

despite being the lowest seed two more wins to its total to to 5-9-3, potentially hurting its “i think we have had a lot more tional perception. 
of the four possible irish op-bump its Tuc record to 9-9-3. pairwise ranking. dame has never won a Big east confidence the last three years, 
ponents, northern michigan To fully understand how ultimately, the potential tournament title. having beaten them in the Final 
has the best overall record and, bizarre the pairwise can be, series that would be the most mcgraw said one major key Four,” mcgraw said. “i think, 
more importantly, an rpi above the 2008 irish provide a good fun would be michigan, but the to notre dame’s success at the when you can compete at that 
.500. This makes them a “Team example. either an irish win potential series that would likely tournament will be its bench level, it really gives your team 
under consideration” (Tuc) in or an irish loss in the ccha help notre dame’s ncaa tour-play. The irish bench contrib-the status of an elite program, 
the pairwise rankings, in which consolation game against nament chances the most, if the uted just nine of the team’s 96 and we’re excited that we have a 
the irish are currently tied for northern michigan would have irish win, would be northern points monday night. chance to play such a great team 
14th. seen notre dame win enough michigan. as a result, the prob­“we really need the bench,” in our conference.” 
The pairwise determines the comparisons to make the ncaa able opponent will be either mcgraw said. “i think our bench mcgraw said the irish know 
11 at-large teams who make the tournament. had the irish tied, Bowling green or lake superior. has been really good all year, and the main keys to matching 
ncaa tournament, along with they would have been out. no, hockey, after all, is a funny different people have stepped up up with the huskies because 
the five conference champions. you did not misread that. game. at different times. i think it’s go-connecticut is such a familiar 
it is a complex system with too interestingly enough, should Contact  Sam Gans at ing to be important that we real-foe. 
many parts to explain fully the wildcats lose the series to sgans@nd.edu ly use them in this tournament.” “generally, it’s one of those 
in the space provided for this the wolverines, their rpi would The views expressed in this notre dame’s path to a con-games where it’s just a rebound-
article, but one of the factors in most likely drop below .500 and column are those of the author ference championship will most ing battle and a question of who’s 
determining how well a team they would no longer be a Tuc. and not necessarily those of likely involve another date with going to make the most shots, 
fares in the pairwise is its record and because the irish went 2-0 The Observer. connecticut (27-3, 14-2), as the a lot of little things,” she said. 
paid adverTisemenT 

huskies have won seven of the “we’ve played them so many last eight Big east tournaments times i think we know them well and 18 overall since the tourna-personnel-wise, so i think it’s ment began in 1983. although just a matter of stepping up and connecticut has a 29-10 edge competing.” in the series between the two The top-seeded irish will face teams, the irish have won six south Florida or rutgers on of the last seven matchups, in-sunday at 2 p.m. at the Xl center. cluding both of this season’s matchups. Contact Brian Hartnett at 
mcgraw said the recent bhartnet@nd.edu 
postseason play. 

Louisville 
“it’s a confident group that’s conTinued From page 20 
excited about playing in the post­

season together,” Brey said. “and atkins and Jerian grant, were you know what? They should be. critical in that win. Brey said he is They really should be. we’ve got pleased with his team’s familiar-a heck of a group. i love my team, ity with louisville’s home court. and i love the fact that they are re­
“it’s going to be a great atmo-ally excited about doing this thing sphere down there,” Brey said. in march.” “obviously, we were fortunate notre dame, no. 20 pittsburgh enough to steal a win down there and no. 17 syracuse are all in last time, so this group has played contention for the no. 4 seed in well there. But we know we’re go-the Big east tournament and the ing to get the shot of a real good accompanying double bye. in the team saturday.” event of ties in conference record, 
after the final whistle against notre dame holds a head-to-head the cardinals on saturday, the tiebreaker over pittsburgh while veteran irish will enter postsea-syracuse holds a tiebreaker over son play with a berth in the Big the irish. The orange would hold east tournament at madison the tiebreaker and earn the dou­square garden in new york be-ble bye in the event of a three-way fore hoping to secure a selection tie. in the ncaa tournament. notre dame and louisville will 
with a squad featuring many of tip off saturday at 4 p.m. at the the same players from last year’s KFc yum! center. The game will group that fell to louisville in the be broadcast nationally on cBs. Big east semifinals and Xavier in the ncaa first round, Brey said he Contact Chris Allen at is confident this team is ready for callen10@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher BrucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTricK cross 



SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: shaquille o’neal, 41; connie Britton, 46; 
d.l. hughley, 50; rob reiner, 66. 
Happy Birthday: make improvements that will help you feel good as well as en­hance what you have to offer. embrace change and make it work for you instead of wasting time trying to hang on to something or someone that isn’t meant to be. Forward motion will keep you in sync and lead to success. love is on the rise. your numbers are 4, 13, 25, 29, 31, 39, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): research will pay off. ease your stress by putting a plan into motion. don’t let your emotions lead you into a no-win situation with someone you work with. rely on past experience to help you avoid making a mistake.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): plan to excel. interact with people that have something to contribute. The more information you obtain, the easier it will be secure your position or find a way to advance. a serious partnership will develop. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make your own deals. you cannot trust anyone to do what’s best for you. asking for a favor is likely to end up costing you. Keep your private life a secret. sharing too much information with colleagues or peers will cause setbacks.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you have more clout than you realize. call the shots and set the standard. ask for what you want and offer what you feel is fair. romance is on the rise and celebrating should be planned. opportunities are apparent. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): a change of heart is apparent, but don’t let that affect the way you do your job. you’ll realize you are further ahead than you think, and there is no need to jump into something prematurely. you need new surround­ings. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): enjoy friends and take part in activities that build your enthusiasm and make you think. romance is heading your way, and deci­sions that influence your future are about to unfold. a promise made will help seal a deal. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): consider your original plan and what your goals were when you were growing up. Focus on what you have to do to alter your life and turn your dream into a reality. change is heading your way. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): get involved in something creative and challeng­ing, and you will face a fascinating test of your ability. you will not only be pleased with your accomplishments, but you will impress someone and secure a position for future projects. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take a back seat and gauge what everyone else does or says. you will get the best results by sticking close to home and making the most of your living space. Keep your thoughts about others to yourself. avoid overindulgence. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): reflect on past relationships and you will know exactly what to say to someone you love. a simple and affordable approach will bring the best results. romance is in the stars and can be achieved on a budget. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): what you do for others will in turn allow you to do something that will make you happy as well. Favors will be repaid, enabling you to make a change that will allow you greater freedom to follow your goals.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): you’ll have a choice. wager the pros and cons and you’ll find a way to get what you want without going overboard physically, financially or emotionally. your talent and skill will help you win a spot in the limelight. 


Birthday Baby: you are sensitive, impulsive and dedicated. you are clever and entertaining. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. Box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The oBserver | THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Louisville slugfest 
Notre Dame travels to Louisville to play last Big East regular season game 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
after the notre dame senior class ended its home career with a win Tuesday night, the no. 24 irish will try to end their regu­lar season with a win over no. 8 louisville on the road. 
irish coach mike Brey’s squad will take the court in louisville with a chance to earn a double bye in next week’s Big east tour­nament. But the irish (23-7, 11-6 Big east) must take down the top-10 cardinals (25-5, 13-4) without freshman forward cam Biedscheid. Brey confirmed wednesday that Biedscheid will serve a one-game suspension for his role in a fight during Tuesday’s win over st. John’s. 
with or without Biedscheid, Brey’s focus is squarely on louisville. notre dame defeated the cardinals 104-101 on Feb. 9 in a five-overtime thriller. 
“maybe we’ll say, what about three [overtimes], let’s go three,” Brey said. “To [director of athletics Jack swarbrick] i said, well, espn got the show and now cBs wants the show. it’s awe­some, though. There’s so much anticipation. i think our guys are excited, i think louisville is [excited.]” 
The two marquee programs have a remarkable recent history of overtime contests peaking with February’s instant-classic contest at purcell pavilion. Five of the last six games between the two teams have gone to overtime. The cardinals have also eliminated the irish from the Big east tour­nament the last two seasons. The postseason implications on the line saturday will give the contest added importance. 
“They’ve just been dramatic games. There’s certainly a great storyline off the last one,” Brey said. “i think it’s a ‘red-out,’ so we’re going to have to wear our gold down there. do you think [louisville coach rick] pitino will have a red suit? Because he wears a white suit when they have a ‘white-out.’ maybe i should wear a gold suit to match our uniforms.” 
The irish were able to get a win at the hostile KFc yum! center in louisville last season — but not before playing two hard-fought overtimes in a 67-65 win. current irish starters, senior forward Jack cooley and junior guards eric 
see louisville PAGE 18 


JOHN NING | The Observer 

Irish junior guard Eric Atkins looks to pass the ball during Notre Dame’s 104-100 five-overtime victory on Feb. 9 . The Irish will face the Cardinals on Saturday at the KFC Yum! Center to end their regular season. 
HOCKEY 

Irish await CCHA opponent 
advances past the best-of-three, second-round series march 15­
17. This means the irish could face the wolverines (13-18-3, 9-15-3), lakers (16-19-1, 11-16­1), Falcons (13-18-5, 10-15-3) or wildcats (15-17-4, 9-15-4). 
notre dame is most likely to play michigan based on the seeding — should no upsets occur in the first round the irish would play the wolverines — which is probably the matchup irish fans would most like to see. 
The rival wolverines always make for an entertaining and intense series and the irish have had remarkable success against the maize and blue this sea­son, sweeping all four regular-season games. plus, an irish series victory would halt the wolverines’ run of 22 straight ncaa tournament appearances and be some nice payback after michigan ended notre dame’s season in the second round of the ccha tournament just a season ago. 
if either the wildcats upset the wolverines or the spartans upset the nanooks, the irish 
see ccha PAGE 18 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Team tries for first Big east tourney title 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 

after defeating no. 3 connecticut in a triple-over­time thriller monday night, no. 2 notre dame will travel to the huskies’ home court to play in the Big east tournament. The tournament begins Friday at the Xl center in hartford, conn. 
monday’s victory gave the irish (28-1, 16-0 Big east) the out­right Big east regular-season ti­tle, marking the second straight year the team has claimed the regular-season conference crown. 
“[The regular-season title] is a great accomplishment for our team,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “i thought we overachieved all season and i was especially pleased with the win [monday], with all that was on the line for us.” 
as the no. 1 seed in the Big east tournament, the irish have a double bye and do not play un­til sunday’s quarterfinal round. mcgraw said the long layoff between games will allow the irish to rest before beginning postseason play. 
“i think the first thing we need is a little rest, but i think [the break] is a good chance for us to work on some general things,” she said. “on defense, there are some things we need to do and offensively, we need to tighten some things up, put some new wrinkles in. But it will be good for us to be fresh because you might have to play three games in three days.” 
The irish will face either no. 8 seed south Florida or no. 9 seed rutgers in its tournament quar­terfinal matchup. notre dame narrowly beat south Florida (20­9, 9-7) in Tampa, Fla., on Jan. 8, winning 75-71 in overtime. But the irish rolled to a 71-46 victory over the scarlet Knights (16-13, 7-9) on Jan. 13 at purcell pavilion. 
The irish will have to win three games in three days in order to win the tournament, which concludes Tuesday night. notre 
see TournamenT PAGE 18 


Sam Gans 
sports writer 
no. 9 notre dame will be comfortably at home while the best-of-three, first-round series of the ccha tournament take place Friday through sunday. no. 6 seed alaska hosts no. 11 seed michigan state, no. 10 seed northern michigan travels to no. 7 seed michigan and no. 9 seed Bowling green travels to no. 8 seed lake superior state. 
But just because the irish (21-12-3, 17-8-3-2 ccha) aren’t competing doesn’t mean they won’t be interested in the results of this weekend’s matchups. 
The irish, by virtue of finish­ing second in the conference in the regular season, will host the second-lowest seed that 




