The IndependenT 
To uncoVer newspaper serVIng The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT saInT mary’s IT accuraTely 


Volume 46, Issue 88 | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserVer.com 



The obserVer | Tuesday, february 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
Community reflects on Pope’s impact 
Professors discuss Benedict XVI’s legacy, leadership of the Church in the past eight years 
By MEGAN DOYLE and SAM STRYKER 
managing editor and assistant managing editor 
fr. brian daley first encoun­tered pope benedict XVI when he was simply known as fr. Joseph ratzinger, a german theologian with a brilliant mind in the days after the second Vatican council. 
daley, who was pursuing a graduate degree in theology in frankfurt, received a copy of ratzinger’s lectures as one of his texts. The texts had not even been published yet, but daley said those writings inspired him as a student. 
“They were really hot stuff, they were not printed,” he said. “They were just kind of photo­copied. … They were really ex­citing and wonderful stuff.” 

now, as the 85-year-old pope prepares to step down from the head of the roman catholic “he knew what I had been should not simply transfer, but “scramble for information” in it is the holy spirit that guides church, daley recalled his first working on. … he knew about I think on the whole it makes the wake of the pope’s decision. the church and not any one encounters with the german notre dame,” daley said. “It it easier for someone to realize he said Italian media tends to individual.” theologian. daley, now a the-was a very warm and cordial when maybe they are not per-be “subservient” to Vatican professor scott appleby, re­ology professor, met ratzinger meeting. I was really delighted forming at the level they them-narratives, and thus coverage ligious historian and direc­in person on a retreat during to meet him and humbled by selves expect of others.” between international media tor of the Kroc Institute for those early years as a student. the opportunity.” and national media has been International peace studies, as ratzinger and another re-while the pope steps down, The pope’s neighbors very different. said in a statement monday treat leader led discussions on daley said benedict’s legacy as notre dame students in the “It is quite a shock channel that benedict acted “coura­the person of christ, daley said a theologian will remain a de-rome study abroad program surfing from the Italian chan-geously” with his decision. the future pope spoke infor-fining factor of his tenure at the attend class approximately nels to the bbc, cnn or even “he leaves behind a church mally and without notes. head of the church. 15 minutes from the Vatican foX as they speculate on pos-still staggering from the sexual 
“he said mass for us every “he is first and foremost a where the pope announced sible scenarios for the resigna-abuse crisis, weakened by bu-day,” daley said. “That was a theologian, a really remarkable his decision monday. The pro-reaucratic infighting, curial lovely meeting. he probably theologian, one of the great fessors who lead their courses 
scandals and papal gaffes, and wouldn’t remember me … but theologians of the catholic said the international shock at 
facing a host of challenges — to 

“I think what 

I’ve always remembered him. church,” daley said. “people benedict’s decision has been which the pope alluded in his 

it means for 

he’s very personable, easy to who know him well say this is especially felt just outside his 
statement [monday,]” he said. get along with, not at all the what he loves to do.” own doorstep. 
the Church but even at the head of a tu­figure the media sometimes another notre dame theol-ada bertini bezzi, an Italian 
is a healthy multuous modern church, 

presents.” ogy professor also recently vis-professor at John cabot appleby said benedict wrote 

recognition that 

years later, daley approached ited the Vatican — department university, said the announce-three “profound” encyclicals 

the papacy, like 

the same man again in october chair John cavadini. cavadini ment was unexpected for her 
and devoted his energy to “‘a 2012. This time, they were in presented benedict with a copy fellow Italian citizens prepar­
every vocation and new evangelization,’ which the 

the Vatican, and pope benedict of a book he had edited titled ing for their own government role within the church desperately needs.” 
XVI was presenting the pro-“explorations of benedict XVI’s election on feb. 24 and 25. 
Theology professor fr. Virgil 


Church, is a gift 

fessor with the 2012 ratzinger Theology.” “This event is really incred­elizondo said the precedent 

from God.” 

prize in Theology. The award cavadini described their ible for everybody here in 
benedict sets when he steps recognized daley’s work on meeting as “a huge honor” that rome,” she said. “we are in the 
J. Matthew Ashley down officially feb. 28 can be a he would never forget. middle of the election cam-
professor positive one for the church. “It was a beautiful moment,” paign, however this news was 
Theology “with all the medical ad­cavadini said in an email inter-like a bomb for us. we are wait­
vances, [the popes] will all live 


“I think it’s a 
view. “he smiled and grasped ing for some more news.” 

longer. … when you look at the beautiful example, my hand with his and thanked bertini bezzi said the initial tion that would and are taboo responsibilities that man has to know when me. he seemed genuinely reaction of many roman citi-on mainstream Italian media as pope, they’re unbelievable,” 
pleased. zens has been one of cynicism. for the most part,” he said. elizondo said. “so it does take 
you can’t do a 
“he seemed to smile too when “people are asking, ‘why?’” somebody with energy, that he 


job to your own 

he saw the imprint: university she said. “we do not believe he A new precedent doesn’t get tired.” standards for the of notre dame.” is really so sick, [so are] there while the pope’s decision to elizondo cited benedict’s ex-job, and not to cavadini said monday’s an-any other reasons?” step down from the head of the tensive theological writings as 
nouncement was surprising pier paolo sarram, a me-church is not the first, there is the pope’s most lasting legacy 
cling to power.” 
but admirable as the pope grew dia professor at John cabot no modern precedent for the from his tenure. 
John Cavadini 
older. benedict attributed his university, also noted the tim-decision. pope celestine V left “he is a very good theologian 
professor 
resignation to a lack of physical ing of the pope’s resignation the office in the 13th century, who got elected pope, and in 
Theology 
and mental strength to contin-may have an impact on Italian more than 700 years ago, and the process became an even ue the job. politics in the weeks leading up professor J. matthew ashley better theologian,” he said. 

“I think it’s a beautiful ex-to an election of both new po-reflected in an email interview benedict also paved the way early christianity, which he ample, to know when you can’t litical leaders and the church’s on this moment as an impor-for future popes to continue to said is also one of benedict’s do a job to your own standards election of a new pope. he said tant one for the church and the embrace modern technology interests. for the job, and not to cling to he was caught off guard by the papacy. and changes, elizondo said. 
“It was a total surprise to me. power,” he said. pope’s resignation, describing “I think what it means for the “This pope’s done Twitter, … I was very moved to receive The pope’s decision to step the event as “unsettling.” church is a healthy recogni-he’s got an ipad,” he said. it, bowled over,” he said. down was in some ways “a wel-“It’s one of those ‘events’ that tion that the papacy, like every “what’s going to be the next 
when daley approached the come precedent,” he said. I think will be remembered as vocation and role within the pope?” pope at the award ceremony, he “after all, bishops are re-something truly out of the ordi-church, is a gift from god,” he said pope benedict spoke with quired to turn in their resigna-nary,” he said. said. “It does not belong to the Contact Megan Doyle at him in german, as they had tions at 75,” he said. “The pope sarram described the reac-person, and it can be given up mdoyle11@nd.edu and Sam spoken years before. is a unique case, so the policy tion of the Italian media as a in a recognition that ultimately Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 88 | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Coccia, Joyce win election runoff 
Juniors will assume office April 1, express gratitude to supporters 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
The student body voted in favor of a vision focused on “passion, perseverance and people,” electing juniors alex coccia and nancy Joyce as 2013-2014 student body president and vice president Tuesday. 
coccia and Joyce received 2,066 of 3,795 votes, or 54.4 percent in the student body election. The pair’s opposition 
— juniors dominic romeo and philip hootsmans — received 1,729 votes, or 45.6 percent. 208 students chose to abstain. 
coccia, who was accom­panied by a number of sup­porters, attributed his ticket’s victory to its campaign team. 
“we put together a really good team and we’re proud of everything they’ve done,” he said. “we certainly wouldn’t be here without their help.” 

Joyce said her ticket’s oppo­sition pushed her and coccia to campaign harder and im­prove their communication efforts. 
“i think we all pushed each other and made [the cam­paign] better,” she said. “i think in the future they will also continue to push us, to make sure we’re doing what we need to be doing as stu­dent body president and vice president.” 
coccia, who will take office april 1, said he will use the coming weeks to gain insights from outgoing student body 
see elecTion PAGE 4 



irish celebrate mardi gras on location 
in new orleans by Friday morning, where they expe­rienced traditions ranging from parades to southern cookouts, they said.  “we had the opportunity to go to an authentic crawfish boil,” charnesky said. “we’re not from the south; we’d never heard of a crawfish boil be­fore, but it was some of the best food i’ve ever had.” 
senior allison Tompkins also traveled to new orleans for the first time and agreed that the cuisine stood out as a highlight of her trip. 
“i had grits for the first time, cheese grits with 
see mardi gras PAGE 4 


Students reflect during Lenten season 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
whether giving up their fa­vorite food, kicking a bad hab­it, or working to incorporate something positive into their daily routine, notre dame stu­dents are coming up with new and unique ways to recognize lent. 
sophomore pat haggerty said that for lent, he intends to quit using Tinder, the newly popular iphone dating application. 
“it’s a total time killer and distraction,” haggerty said. “plus, it makes for awkward sightings on campus. also, i don’t want to get ‘lennay Kekua’ed.’” 
sophomore Jack souter, a resident of Fisher hall, said he plans to give up going into oth­er male dorms for the 40 days between ash wednesday and easter. 
“i feel that this will help strengthen my Fisher identity,” souter said. “The community in Fisher is the only place i can truly be myself.” 
sophomore Thomas Kleiber is prepared to refuse discus­sion over the controversial change in dining hall menus on Fridays during lent. 
see lenT PAGE 4 


Event displays talents 

By BRIDGET FEENEY 
associate saint mary’s editor 
For the second year in a row, saint mary’s will host an evening dedicated to showing off students’ talent, passion and creativity. 
The apollo style Talent showcase, a variety show where students can demon­strate their skills in a mul­titude of ways, will be held wednesday evening at 7 p.m. at saint mary’s college. The evening is co-sponsored by saint mary’s student club sisters of nefertiti and indiana university-south bend’s black student union in celebration of african american history month. 
saint mary’s senior london lamar, president of sisters of nefertiti, said the night has historical roots. 
“apollo night is a talent showcase inspired by the 
see apollo PAGE 4 



By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 
This Fat Tuesday, some notre dame students will be celebrating with authen­tic mardi gras spirit straight from the big easy. 
“it’s definitely an experi­ence coming down, even with a budget,” senior Justin asuncion said about his trip to new orleans this past weekend. “it’s a great experi­ence that every notre dame student should take if you can.” 
asuncion and fellow se­niors andrew charnesky and Joe caparros drove through the night Thursday to arrive 


csc new program PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 women’s basKeTball PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 


Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Who is your celebrity Valentine? 

Greta Hurlbut 
senior ryan hall 
“Johnny depp.” 

Tom Temmerman 
senior siegfried hall 
“beyoncé, for sure” 

Allison Wagner 
senior off campus 
“Johnny mcginley.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Katie Martinez 
junior 
badin hall 
“ryan reynolds.” 

Sarah Karchunas 
sophomore pasquerilla west hall 
“mario lopez.” 

Elisabeth O’Toole 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“marky mark.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Jillian barwick sam gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: bridget Feeney megan Finneran sarah swiderski samantha Zuba 

Graphics Scene 

Today Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
sara shoemake Troy mathew 


Photo Viewpoint 

Mardi Gras Concert 83rd Annual Bengal SonnetFest 2013 Business Lecture Men’s Tennis 
Kirby mcKenna caroline schurz 
Legends Bouts Preliminaries O’Shaugnessy Hall Mendoza College of Eck Tennis Pavilion 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Joyce Center 11 a.m.-3 p.m. Business 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Featuring guitarist and 6 p.m-10 p.m. Public reading of 10:40 a.m.-12:10 p.m. Notre Dame takes on 




Corrections 

composer Stephane Men’s boxing Shakespeare’s 154 Speaker: Julia Michigan. 
in a Feb. 11 article titled “student Wrembel. tournament opens. sonnets. Silverman. government finalists face off,” student 
Notre Dame Jazz 

body president candidate alex coccia 

Four:7 Catholic Men’s Basketball No More Deaths CSC Open House Band 
was incorrectly described as having 
Fellowship Purcell Pavilion Geddes Hall Coleman-Morse DeBartolo Performing 
student government experience. The 
Cavanaugh Hall 7 p.m. 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Center Arts  Center 
observer regrets this error. 

8:30p.m.-9:30 p.m. Notre Dame takes on Presentation by 6 p.m.-7 p.m. 2 p.m.-3 p.m. Student-led Catholic DePaul. desert aid workers in Part of Junior Parents Annual JPW concert. fellowship group. the Sonoran desert. Weekend. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2013 | The observer 



CSC program fosters community involvement 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
The center for social concerns is partnering with the college of engineering and college of science to pro­vide research opportunities in the local community for faculty and students. 
alisa Zornig has been ap­
pointed  coordinator  for  
academic  community  en­ 
gagement,  specific  to  the  
colleges  of  science  and  
engineering.  

“The center for social concerns had some resourc­es for community-based learning and community-based research courses, and the colleges of science and engineering had the desire to spread those opportuni­ties to students in those dis­ciplines,” Zornig said. “my position helps to connect faculty with community partners in order to offer op­portunities for undergradu­ate students to engage in the community.” 
Zornig said the research projects will be driven by fac­ulty interests. 
“They’ll come to me with an idea for collaborating in the community and i’ll seek out and find what organiza­tions will really fit their re­search interests,” she said.
 Zornig added that the university would like to en­hance the opportunities for faculty who want to work in the community. 
“There’s a nice framework already, and this is an expan­sion of that framework,” she said. 
additionally, the partner­ship will be helpful to newer faculty members who are not familiar with local partner­ships and possibilities, she said.  
“ [Faculty can find] what we have to offer as a community, where they can go to work and find others who have similar interests, and can really col­laborate to expand the dis­semination of their research, and bring educational oppor­tunities to those who might not have them,” Zornig said. “i’m the liaison, making the connection for them in the community 
“i’m also meeting with fac­ulty already engaged in the community to find out what we already have established and to find out how people might be able to connect or assist in programs that are already ongoing with our stu­dents and our faculty. 

current partners include local nonprofits, as well as schools in the area, Zornig said. 
“we have research experi­ence for teachers programs that bring in area high school teachers,” she said. “They work with faculty on campus in research labs and develop curricula that they can take back to their classrooms, so it really helps with the edu­cation of their students, and they get the research experi­ence in the labs.” 

Zornig emphasized the partnership is a “reciprocal approach.” 
“we want to fit the faculty and the students and the or­ganizations in a way that all benefit, specific to the faculty member’s research interests and the students’ learning in­terest, as well,” she said. “one of the neat things that i really like about this position, is that i get to meet with com­munity partners and talk to them about where they might like to expand, where there are opportunities for science and engineering students.” 


Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

globemed collaborates with organization in laos 
recognized by sao the spring community-based grassroots or-history,” she said. future, club members are focus-
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 

news writer of the following year. Fr. bob ganization facing health dispari-spencer noted that the excite-ing on a number of events taking dowd, director of the Ford Family ties in africa, asia, north america ment to participate in globemed place in the next few months as 
when junior genevieve gill-program in human development and south america, spencer said. was mutual. well. wiehl first learned about the studies and solidarity, stepped in “[our] chapters build these “This is an opportunity for us to spencer said the club is hosting globemed network in the spring as faculty advisor, and the new partnerships through frequent collaborate with globemed and a babysitting night for faculty and of 2010, she knew it was something program was launched. The new communication and innovative its students to improve the health staff for valentine’s day, and later that would band together notre chapter became part of a student-fundraising initiatives for collab-of the communities, to exchange this month iy ie joining with the dame students interested in a run non-profit organization with orative health projects that help experiences about our works, center for social concern to hold movement toward global health 50 chapters at universities across our partner organizations achieve open our ear to listen to new ideas a soup and substance event. equality. the united states, according to their missions,” she said. from young generation...” chair-“later in the spring, we are 
after applying and being ac-junior Kate spencer, a campaign discussions on global health man assistant and project coor-planning on having a donation cepted as a chapter founder, she coordinator with globemed. issues prevail in the classroom dinator at peda Thipphavanh yoga class, selling spring break fostered a network of like-mind-as part of the organization, while internships are also ar-Thammachithe said through bro tanks, fundraising at the holy ed students who were officially each chapter partners with a ranged with partner organiza-globemed’s notre dame chapter. half, and will be campaigning for 
tions overseas. “That we may apply new ideas to the world day of social Justice on 
paid adverTisemenT spencer said the group of ap-our work and on the community Feb. 18,” she said. proximately 30 active members at projects, as our work is to pro-other activities will include a notre dame is both very consis-vide technical information and basketball game called “loose tent and involved. The club holds education to support the com-change for laos” where the pro-weekly meetings at 9 p.m. on munity potential in solving socio-ceeds will be sent to peda and a wednesdays and also attends re-economic, health issues and so Five guys Fundraiser, which will treats and organizes fundraisers. forth.” take place Feb. 28. “recently, we had a retreat for since joining with the laotias “Through our chapter discus-paid adverTisemenT 
club members and discussed a lot organization, notre dame has re-sions, collaborations with peda, of campaign ideas to raise money mained in constant contact with and the support of all globemed for the promotion for education peda. updates are frequently chapters, we are making prog­and development association sent overseas on club activities, ress in the fight for global health [peda],” spencer said. spencer said, and in turn those equality,” spencer said. 
spencer said the globemed working overseas reveal their day-offering a unique and opening organization paired the notre to-day activities both in the office environment, globemed provides dame chapter with the laos net-and in the field. many windows for involvement work and students were thrilled to “we are sending four students for all majors and those interested be working with them. peda is a there for about three weeks this in global health. spencer said the non-profit organization based in summer to intern for peda,” chapter is always looking for more vientiane, laos. spencer said. “They will be assist-members. 
“working with peda would ing with health prevention proj-“we truly believe that health is give [globemed members] the ects in the area and we are very a human right, and that we as stu­opportunity to make a tangible excited to get the chance to meet dents can be powerful agents of difference in laos, but also edu-peda employees in person and change,” spencer said. cate students at notre dame not just over skype.” about a country halfway around Though this is an exciting op-Contact Carolyn Hutyra at the world with a rich culture and portunity to anticipate in the chutyra@nd.edu 



Election “it’s been an absolute plea-ways of looking at things,” wanted to encourage was Lent 
sure having this opportu-he said. “To gain the support conversation at every level of 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 

nity to interact with students of as many students as we this campus,” he said. “how “i’m giving up arguing with 
president and vice president individually and in groups, did in such a short time was do we do that through an ave-people over whether the dining 
brett rocheleau and Katie to hear their feedback and incredible.” nue that isn’t student govern-hall should serve meat or not,” 
rose and to build off his sup-truly get this whole new pic-hootsmans said he was ap-ment? we’ll have to examine Kleiber said. “it’s pointless and 
port team. 

preciative of students’ willing-that, but it’s something we’re annoying.” 
“we’re excited to start con­
ness to back his ticket’s vision passionate about.” some of the most popular 
versations with [rocheleau 
“We do think for student government. hootsmans expressed his ways to observe lent this year 
and rose]. ... we’ve built such 
Coccia-Joyce will “everyone we talked to confidence in the winning are plans to give up drinking 
a strong network of people was extremely open and very ticket’s ability to serve the 
do a good job. 
soda, cutting out swear words, who we want to have incor­supportive of us,” he said. student body. 


At the end of the 
working out daily and making porated into student govern­

“getting so many students “we do think coccia-Joyce a point to attend church more 
ment,” he said. “we’re going 
day, Notre Dame who wanted us to be presi-will do a good job,” he said. often. 
to use these next couple of 
is stronger for it..” dent and vice president of this “at the end of the day, notre “This isn’t very original but 
weeks before the transition campus was humbling.” dame is stronger for it.” 
Philip Hootsmans 
i’m giving up sweets and soda,” to get really moving on the romeo said he and 

junior 
sophomore claire cosgrove ground.” 

hootsmans will work to ad-News Editor Kristen Durbin said, echoing many of her class-
romeo said the experi-vance their platform outside also contributed to this report. mates. “i have a sweet tooth and 
ence of campaigning across ture of notre dame as a truly of student government, al­like to drink soda, so it’s always 
campus made the experience diverse campus in terms of though he is unsure how. Contact John Cameron at really hard and challenges me 
worthwhile, win or lose. backgrounds, interests and “one of the big things we jcamero@nd.edu through all of lent.” 
Junior susan nichols said she was planning to quit swearing for 40 days for the second year Mardi Gras cajun-themed dishes on both 

in a row. nichols said cutting 

conTinued From page 1 homestyle and pan-am,” curse words out of her vocabu­
poklinkowski said. “The pop­lary is a good thing to remember 
shrimp on it,” Tompkins said. ularity of this meal has in-in daily life, and lent provides a 
“The rice and beans was to die creased tremendously over the 
for… i didn’t taste anything years, so we found the need to 
that wasn’t good.” take the regular pan-am items 

“The best thing 

Tompkins described touring off for this day to offer students 

about Lent is 

the French Quarter and learn-another area to get the themed 

being given an 

ing about the history of various menu items they are looking 
parades and the groups, called for.” 

opportunity  not 

krewes, which plan them. poklinkowski added  north 

only to make daily 

“i had heard about the pret-dining hall will be offering 

sacrifices, but to 

ty buildings, you know, in the jambalaya and mississippi 

reflect on why I’m 

French Quarter and everything, fried catfish as well as choco­
but honestly i didn’t know what late rum cake and mini éclairs 

sacrificing.” 

to expect,” Tompkins said. “it and that south dining hall will 
Susanna Floyd 

really shocked me how beauti-feature jambalaya as well with 
sophomore 

ful it was with all the different blackened catfish. 
areas and the mississippi river “our dessert bar [at south] perfect opportunity to motivate 
and everything.” will be a make-your-own-des­her to stick to her goal. 
notre dame Food services sert featuring pound cakes, sophomore allie gerspach de­
general manager marc fresh strawberries, apples and be done even on a tight budget. conscious about stuff you can cided to use lent as motivation 
poklinkowski said students caramel sauce, hot chocolate charnesky noted that driv-do it on a budget. to be more practical in daily life. 
staying at notre dame for the fudge and whipped topping,” ing and staying with a friend “it’s a great time and it’s go­“i’m going to give up up buy-
festivities will be able to expe-poklinkowski said. in new orleans helped cut ing to be something you’ll al­ing coffee,” gerspach said. “my 
rience themed décor and menu although mardi gras known expenses. ways remember.” flex points will benefit, [and] it’s 
items at both dining halls on for its celebration of excess, “you can definitely do it for a luxury that i don’t need when 
Tuesday. asuncion and charnesky said under $500,” charnesky said. Contact Lesley Stevenson at i can just make coffee in my 
“south will have our traveling to new orleans can “it’s not cheap, but if you’re just lsteven1@nd.edu room.” 
during lent, many activities will take place to help students observe the period of reflection, 

black history month.” will determine the winner of appropriate. lamar said one 
Apollo 
including meat-free dining halls prizes such as dr. dre the talent show. noteworthy aspect of this 

conTinued From page 1 
on Fridays, daily rosary prayers 

headphones and an amazon after each performance, year’s show is the number at the grotto and a weekly 
famous apollo Theatre in the audience will either of indiana university-south stations of the cross event. 
harlem, new york, where cheer or boo the student off bend students competing. 

“I’m really excited 
notre dame campus ministry students can showcase their stage to help decide the best “The auditions went really 


for the events 
encourages students to use lent talent and the audience helps 

talent. as one of the event’s well,” she said. “we have a lot as a time for self-reflection and 
choose the winner,” she said. 
and it is sure to masters of ceremonies, of acts from iusb we are re-improvement. 
according to the apollo 
be a good time ... lamar said she is eager to see ally excited about.” “whenever we talk about 
Theatre’s website, amateur the audience and performers audience members will 

I hope students 
lenten sacrifices, then, or even night has attracted nov­interact. also have a chance to win priz­


take away an 
about the environmental and ice poets, comedians, sing­

“i’m really excited for the es from Family video, best liturgical changes that mark the 
ers and dancers for over 75 
appreciation events and it is sure to be a buy and strikes and spares. season, we can put all of those 
years. Former performers in-
of the arts and good time,” she said. “i hope The apollo style Talent in the context of preparing our­
clude successes such as ella students take away an ap-showcase is wednesday at 7 

talent.” 
selves — as individuals and as Fitzgerald, michael Jackson preciation of the arts and p.m. in carroll auditorium of 

London Lamar 
a church — for the new life we and stevie wonder. 

talent.” madeleva hall. The event is 
senior 
all put on at easter,” campus “it’s really fun and inter-

in order to prep for the free and open to the public. ministry’s website stated. 
active,” she said. “we chose event, lamar and the other sophomore susanna Floyd, 
to have apollo night to cel-Kindle will be awarded to the judges of the event held audi-Contact Bridget Feeney at who is involved with campus 
ebrate black cultural arts for best performer. The audience tions to ensure the acts were bfeene01@saintmarys.edu ministry, said lent is a good 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2013 | The observer 

Northeasterners struggle with icy conditions 
Associated Press 
harTFord, conn. — The workweek opened with a white-knuckle ride monday in the snow-clobbered northeast as drivers encountered unplowed streets, two-lane roads reduced to a single channel and snow­banks so high it was impossible see around corners. 
schools remained closed across much of new england and new york, and more than 100,000 homes and businesses were still waiting for the elec­tricity to come back on after the epic storm swept through on Friday and saturday with 1 to 3 feet of snow that entombed cars and sealed up driveways. 
The storm was blamed for at least 18 deaths in the u.s. and canada, and officials warned of a new danger as rain and higher temperatures set in: roof collapses. 
in hard-hit connecticut, where some places were bur­ied in more than 3 feet of snow, the national guard used heavy equipment to clear roads in the state’s three biggest cities. 
“This is awful,” said Fernando colon, of south windsor, conn., who was driving to work at bradley international airport near hartford on a two-lane highway that was down to one lane because of high snowbanks. 

most major highways were cleared by monday, but the vol­ume of snow was just too much to handle on many secondary roads. a mix of sleet and rain also created new headaches. a 10-mile stretch of interstate 91 just north of hartford to 
massachusetts  was  closed  
briefly  because  of  ice  and  
accidents.  

in new york, where hun­dreds of cars became stuck on the long island expressway on Friday night and early saturday morning, some motorists vent­ed their anger at gov. andrew cuomo for not acting more quickly to shut down ma­jor roads, as other governors did, and for not plowing more aggressively. 
“There were cars scattered all over the place. They should have just told people in the morning, ‘don’t bother going in because we’re going to close the roads by 3 o’clock.’ i think boston and connecticut had the right idea telling everybody to stay off the roads and we got a better chance of clearing it up,” said george Kiriakos, an investment consultant from bohemia, n.y. 

on monday morning, he said, conditions were still mis­erable: “it’s just as slick as can be. you’ve got cars stuck all over like it’s an obstacle course.” 
cuomo has defended his han­dling of the crisis and said that more than one-third of all the state’s snow-removal equip­ment had been sent to the area. he said he also wanted to allow people the chance to get home from work. 
“people need to act respon­sibly in these situations,” the governor said. 

man opens fire in courthouse, kills two 
heriot, who says he was waiting interview that one of the wom-conference that the shooting opened fire in the lobby of 
Associated Press 

to enter the new castle county en killed was the shooter’s es-was not a random act of violence. the courthouse, where people 
wilmingTon, del.  — a gun-courthouse on monday morn-tranged wife, but shavack said “it’s developed out of a long — line up to go through metal 
man who spent years in court ing. he said the heavy-set man, police had not confirmed that. over the course of many years — detectors. 
battles over custody disputes who appeared to be in his 50s, shavack also declined monday custody dispute in the courts of “he did not break the (secu­
opened fire monday in the lobby pulled out a semiautomatic pis-night to confirm heriot’s ac-this state,” biden said. rity) perimeter,” shavack said. 
of a delaware courthouse, leav-tol and fired a single shot at each count of the shooting, or disclose authorities said two police of-Jose beltran, 53, an employee 
ing two women dead before be-victim. who shot whom, saying inves-ficers were also shot, but were at the courthouse, said he heard 
ing fatally shot, authorities said. heriot said the shooter then tigators were still reviewing treated at a hospital and re-two shots, “boom, boom,” as he “he walked right up the first exchanged gunfire with police surveillance video and taking leased. chief william Jopp of the was entering the lobby. beltran 
victim and shot her point-blank before falling to the floor. witness statements. authorities capitol police, which provides said he heard at least three more 
right in the chest. he then delaware state police sgt. have also declined to release the security at state government shots as he turned around and 
turned around and shot a sec-paul shavack said the suspect names of the deceased. buildings, said they were pro-ran. 
ond woman who was approxi-and the women are dead. mayor delaware attorney general tected by their armored vests. “it happened so fast,” he said. 
mately 10 feet away,” said bill dennis williams said in a phone beau biden said at a news authorities said the gunman chick chinski, 62, of middletown was entering the 
paid adverTisemenT 

courthouse to report for jury duty when he heard popping sounds. 
“it didn’t sound like gunfire first at all,” said chinski, adding that the shooter seemed to de­liberately target the two women who were killed. 
“absolutely,” he said. “it’s right what he went after when he come in the door. That’s exactly what he did instantly.” 
chinski said that before the shooting, he shared an eleva­tor with the gunman and others from the parking garage. The gunman was quiet and did not appear agitated, he said. 
heriot, a plaintiff in a court case that was to be heard this week, said after the two wom­en were shot, there was an ex­change of gunfire, then a lull, during which time he believes the shooter may have been put­ting a new clip in his gun. 
“i could smell the gunpowder in the air,” heriot said. after the shooting stopped, he knelt down beside the first woman who was shot. 

The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

man’s best 

friend 

Alex Wilcox 
sports writer 

“a dog has no use for fancy cars, big homes or designer clothes. a waterlogged stick will do just fine. a dog doesn’t care if you’re rich or poor, clever or dull, smart or dumb. give him your heart and he will give you his.” 
This quote is from John grogan’s best­selling book and movie, “marley and me,” a memoir about grogan’s adventures with his “world’s worst dog,” a devilish, but loving, yellow lab named marley. The movie came out christmas day in 2008, about one year after my family was blessed with our first dogs, two golden retriever puppies named simms and Tiki. That day had been a long time coming for me, as i had been begging my parents for a dog ever since i was a little kid. 
simms and Tiki were born on sept. 27, 2007, and we were finally allowed to pick them up that november. The entire ride home simms sat on my lap, a practice that became a habit even after he quickly ballooned to 85 pounds, but i couldn’t be happier. all the persistence and begging had paid off, and a boy finally had his dog. 
after a year with our dogs, my family and i went to the movies to see “marley and me.” i laughed at all the trouble marley got into, smiled at all the cute mo­ments they shared and cried like a baby when they put marley to sleep. it’s the only movie to make me cry to this date. i couldn’t imagine the pain it must feel to lose someone so special. i went home after the movie and hugged my dogs, thankful that they were so young. 
last week, my first dog and my best friend, simms, passed away. he was just five years old, but was born with a very small spleen that escaped the eyes of the veterinarian. our entire family was devastated. we all agreed it was terribly unfair that the greatest, most loving dog in the was taken from us so soon. as any dog owner can attest to, dogs are not just animals or a pets, they are a part of your family. The only explanation i could ac­cept is the one provided by my mom: “maybe his spleen was so small because his heart was so big.” 
suddenly, every moment i spent with him became priceless. chasing him down the beach after he got under the fence and terrorized every picnic in his path, scrubbing him down after a long day of rolling in mud: These are memo­ries i’ll cherish forever. what once was a chore now became a gift, and i would do anything to take him on one last walk or feed him one last time. 
as hard as it is to accept, life goes on. For dog owners though, man’s best friend will always be there. Thank you simms for everything you’ve done for our family and me. rest in peace, pup. 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

in its recent student government endorsement, scholastic magazine criticized one ticket for its proposal “to instate a prayer before home foot­ball games.” scholastic insisted that such a proposal “contradicts their platform of inclusion.” no doubt, furthering the inclusivity of the cam­pus environment at notre dame has been a very important focus in recent years. after publishing an offensive comic strip by The mobile party in January 2010, The observer issued a statement condemning the “cruel and hateful” comic printed in its pages. The comic made an offensive joke about gay men being assaulted. 
Two months later, charles rice, notre dame professor of law and observer columnist for nearly 20 years, submitted a column outlining the catechism’s teachings on homo­sexuality. The observer’s editor, in an email rejecting the column, ex­pressed concerns about the column’s length, as well as “some concerns with the content of the column, par­ticularly considering The mobile party comic incident earlier in the semester.” he suggested that, should professor rice choose to write on this topic, he submit it in a “point­counterpoint format . . . That way, each ‘side,’ to speak, would have the opportunity to present relevant facts, evidence and analysis to define its position.” The exchange ended in the discontinuance of professor rice’s column. 
in discourse in the contemporary university, neutrality is prized as an exemplary virtue. at religious uni­versities, neutrality often indicates a kind of ambivalence towards the uni­versity’s religious mission, seeking to be inclusive to those who are not a part of the school’s religious tradi­tion. student government candidates are criticized for advocating public prayer, and columnists are censored for promoting religious teachings. religious acts and advocacy are deemed non-inclusive and one-sided. These publications insist that all opposing sides must be permitted to present their own facts in their own ways. 
The scholastic, The observer and other publications and institutions reveal their own rejection of neutral­ity, however, in their “endorsements.” This becomes quite clear in notre dame’s annual student government elections, in which these publica­tions allow each side to present itself and then inform campus which side it should elect. in such endorse­ments, we learn that no publication is in fact “neutral.” indeed, a publica­tion’s ability to write “staff editori­als” comes from its lack of neutrality. 
such a lack need not be considered a bad thing. Those who would insist that opinions and beliefs be kept pri­vate insist on a country whose citi­zens are unable to engage each other in the public sphere on the most im­portant matters. however, america is often celebrated as a uniquely di­verse country, a country that grows through the intersection and dia­logue of competing viewpoints. 
we must keep in mind, however, that viewpoints are not only held by individual citizens. They are also held by institutions. a society that respects diverse viewpoints must not only be tolerant of individuals, it must also be tolerant of institu­tions. as social creatures, human beings desire to have beliefs that are shared and lived out in community. one test of our tolerance is our abil­ity to cultivate and promote institu­tions and communities that manifest particular sets of beliefs. indeed, all institutions and communities arise from shared beliefs. 
we often discuss the marginal­ization of minority individuals. we don’t, however, discuss intolerance within institutions. refusing public prayer or religious teachings at a catholic university is not a call for neutrality. it is a refusal to let an in­stitution be what it is. notre dame does not have a choice between catholicism and neutrality. There is no such thing as institutional neu­trality. we have a choice between catholicism and agnosticism, a com­peting religion. 
some students choose to attend notre dame and then pretend to be surprised by its catholic elements, such as theology requirements and catholic-oriented health plans. we ought not to be fooled by their feigned ignorance, however. when students make arguments begin­ning with, “i didn’t come to notre dame because it’s catholic,” they aren’t making arguments for neutral­ity. rather, they’re insisting that the university abandon its own beliefs in exchange for their own. They would replace catholicism with themselves. 
notre dame is both a university and a woman, and she is most worthy of protection from those who would damage her integrity. we may en­courage students to cultivate their own personal beliefs, but we must allow and encourage notre dame to have, express, live by and promote her beliefs as well. For those of you who disagree, good luck covering 132 feet of Jesus christ for “college gameday.” 
Christopher Damian is a senior studying philosophy. He can be con­tacted at cdamian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“i am certain there is too much certainty in the world.” 
Michael Crichton 

American author & screenwriter 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
A culture in need of relations 
Matthew Caponigro 
raising voices 

“The trouble with many of us, and with our culture as a whole is that we don’t take time to ‘relate,’ to connect publicly and formally but meaningfully with others. we sit in meetings and conferences and dinner sessions with scores and hundreds of others . . . but we don’t take the time to meet one to one with others, to hear their interests and dreams and fears, to understand why people do what they do or don’t do what they don’t do,” community organizer michael gecan wrote. 
i see that cliché “hey, how’s it going?” — “great, you?” bit happen by rote here. social interaction is structured to betray a false sense of intimacy, the “tyr­anny of intimacy” gecan calls it, so we don’t have to do the messy work of relating to each other more deeply. i’m not entirely surprised we developed this robotic banter. we don’t usually have time in our schedules to stop long enough to really connect. but it’s not just that we’re busy: we don’t really plug in either. classes, re­search and internships — all the typical reasons people come to a university like this — are often just boxes we check off on our way to bigger and better things. 
yes, school is our primary duty during our tenure here at notre dame. yes, classes are integral to our for­mation as educated individuals ready to be a force for good in the world, and research and internships help us put our learning into action. but they don’t merit the personal sacrifice we often make to do them all at once. Fr. John Jenkins once said: “we’re called to serve each community of which we’re a part, and this call is cap­tured in the motto over the door of the east knave of the basilica: “god, country, notre dame.” but before we can effectively serve our community, we have to actu­ally build that community. 
i know it’s possible here at notre dame. 
last Thursday afternoon, i joined 11 of the busiest, most passionate students on campus representing eight different social justice special interest clubs in the geddes hall coffee house for dinner, under the infor­mal banner of the “coalition for human dignity.” 
For once, we weren’t organizing events or planning fundraisers. we made time to share a meal together that afternoon because, despite our common interest in promoting human dignity, we hardly had any idea who the other was. someone brought up (and i para­phrase): “how can we promote human dignity if we don’t first recognize the dignity of everyone around us?” 
That’s what living in a college community is all about: intentionally engaging the people around us as actors in their own unfolding stories instead of extras in our own. it’s about seeing the divine in the other and ourselves through genuine communication, finding new avenues to share our experiences, concerns and hopes — whether it be through sharing a meal like we did last week or making a space to share music and art that reflect our passions or even just sitting down for an earnest conversation over coffee. This kind of relating forces us to be vulnerable more than we’re used to and reflect on ourselves in relation to the rest of the world. but i think everyone i shared that meal with last week would agree when i say it’s downright thrilling. 
as we enter into lent this week, perhaps we can make an intention to talk about real things, things that matter, bother us and drive us to do the things we do, or not do the things we don’t. 
Matthew Caponigro is a sophomore studying physics. He can be reached at cdurkin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Immigration and American values 
i strongly disagree with mr. ellis’ points (“an argument against amnesty,” Feb. 
5) regarding amnesty contradicting american principles. immigration embodies american values: respecting equality, hard work and innovation. seeing immi­grants as no more than “enemies, foreign and domestic” will only make america more exclusive, denigrating and stagnant 
mr. ellis argues immigrants should serve to improve only their own nation’s re­pressive conditions. yet people are born into their rights, not by virtue but by acci­dent. repressive regimes could change due to emigration’s threat of “brain drain,” an exodus of talent, as a consequence of their actions. democracies can only ben­efit from this. The world’s greatest minds immigrated to america, including albert einstein, an instrumental figure in the development of atomic weapons, which led to america’s rise to power. we are blessed einstein was allowed into america and wasn’t forced to remain in nazi germany. 
it’s true einstein was a legal immigrant. however, he may not have made it under today’s restrictive laws, which permit a quota of fewer than 700,000. The wealthy have access to the legal resources to help them navigate this convoluted system. For most, waiting realistically lasts 12-28 years. after this wait, people have lived through adulthood. it’s simply not feasible to start anew at age 49. 
mr. ellis, who bemoans immigrants’ drag on taxpayers, proposes their incarcer­ation to “send a message.” This is a costly message, as prison expenses in america have risen. contrarily, many immigrants pay more taxes than received benefits. many comply with governmental directives, receiving individual Tax identification numbers (iTin), even though they’ll never receive social security. 
while they don’t possess legal rights, i cannot stand by whens someone says il­legal immigrant are “entitled to nothing.” some take advantage of this, resulting in sex trafficking, unfair labor practices and dehumanization. immigrants are hu­man beings, deserving full human dignity and respect. immigrants walk among us. For some, they are our neighbors, friends and lovers. 
as 21st-century americans, we must ask ourselves whether lady liberty still shines her light as mankind’s hope or whether she’s been relegated as an artifact of the past, a disneyland-esque icon of dreams long since departed. 
John McKissick 
senior dillon hall Feb. 12 
UWIRE 

Canceling Saturday mail delivery is necessary 
The Daily Forty-Niner Editorial Board 
The daily Forty-niner 

saturdays may have become a whole lot grimmer with the u.s. postal service’s calling an end to its saturday deliveries. The u.s. postal service wishes to move to a five-day-mail-delivery schedule to cut nearly two billion dollars in losses. The end to the saturday service is proposed for august. 
packages would still be delivered six days a week, but letters, bills and junk mail that we receive on the week­end will be pushed back to the following week. 
The slimming down of the u.s. postal service has been inevitable for quite sometime. with the rise of the internet, email and smartphones, sending messages through the mail has become the slowest form of com­munication and the most expensive. That is even with stamps costing 46 cents each. 
The u.s. postal service is funded by the government. The government, with trillions of dollars of debt, needs to make cuts somewhere. The saturday u.s. postal service could be one of those cuts. 
The editorial board for the daily 49er agrees that it is a necessary evil to cut saturday delivery. 
we all occasionally use the u.s. postal service to mail letters to family or friends, receive the arts and crafts we buy on etsy or pay our bills. however, eliminating saturday service will not have a great effect on our lives. we will just have to plan accordingly so we can make sure our mail arrives on time. 
The fact of the matter is that by closing the saturday mail delivery, the u.s. postal service saves a lot of mon­ey. by cutting saturday service, this hopefully means the u.s. postal service will not have to cut as many jobs. yes, there will be one less day available for mailmen and mailwomen to work, but at least more will be able to keep their routes during the week. 
as for the rest of us, we will have to resort to emailing each other on saturdays — but that’s not too much of a stretch. we email each other on a daily basis as it is. 
it is interesting, though, to wonder if canceling the saturday service could start a trend. 
There could be a time when the u.s. postal service delivery is entirely canceled. as the mail system be­comes more and more irrelevant, this is not a far-off possibility. This could become a reality as we find better and more efficient means of communicating with each other. 
This column originally ran in the Feb. 10 edition of The Daily Forty-Niner, serving California State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

collaboration creates more difficulty for an than it isolates. The result is an award show Mac Hendrickson already difficult nomenclature. what makes that no one respects. when Taylor swift 
scene writer 

urban contemporary “urban,” for instance? won album of the year in 2010 for her album 
and why do i care? i’m just watching to see “Fearless,” the indie scene was livid. but when 
let’s be honest, watching the grammys what neil patrick harris is wearing. arcade Fire won the same award just one 
wasn’t your top priority sunday night. you confusion reigns from top to bottom. year later, the larger american public was 
checked Twitter every so often to hear about in fact, most viewers probably don’t know confused. There is just no getting past the 
botched acceptance speeches, ll cool J dis-the difference between record of the year naysayers. 
ses and Justin Timberlake’s hair. but you did and song of the year. record of the year is but those are all “awards” issues. The 
not really care that much who won and lost. an award based on achievement in record-ceremony itself is another story. last night 
and you couldn’t help it: you do not respect ing, and thus is awarded to the performers specifically featured an interesting crowd 
the award show. most people 
and mixers. song of the year and a great lineup of performances. Justin don’t. squeezed between its 
is based on achievement in Timberlake was mvp of the stage, outfitted more powerful sunday-night 
songwriting, and thus is ap-in dapper threads. he sang and danced to brothers the super bowl and 
propriately given to the song-his brilliant single “suit and Tie” and another the oscars, the grammy 
writer. This distinction might song from his new album. Frank ocean rolled awards just do not command 
seem arbitrary in an age where the dice performing the under-appreciated the attention they should. 
many performers write their cut “Forrest gump” from “channel orange.” both writers and artists 
own material. however, these but the performance was inspired. anyone have criticized the show 
two awards give the academy not in the know about ocean and his bril­since the 1990s on grounds of 
a chance to recognize two liance received a healthy serving. 
relevancy and importance. separate achievements. other notable performers included The 
and the major winners always seem to be Take a look at the respective winners this black Keys, Jack white and miguel and wiz 
a poor indication of popular taste. Though year. gotye took home record of the year Khalifa. Taylor swift started the evening 
many viewers similarly find fault with the for the ubiquitous tune “somebody That i with an elaborate performance most ac­
oscars, fans and critics usually agree that used to Know.” in this case, the grammys curately described as “thematically con-
the best picture nominees, for example, are were awarding gotye for what he did in the fused.” she performed “we are never ever 
some of the year’s most impressive works. The studio; in other words, they liked the way the getting back Together” to an array of “alice 
grammys, on the other hand, always seem song sounded. Fun. walked away with song in wonderland” scenery and drama. no one, 
to get it wrong (how good can a dixie chicks of the year for “we are young,” another radio except maybe swift herself, really knows why. 
album really be?). dead horse. in this sense, the grammys were ll cool J’s hosting was more or less a hit, 
The show’s centerpiece award is album of awarding the band for what they did before and beyonce, ellen degeneres and Katy perry 
the year, and there is a certain kind of album they stepped foot in the 
led a lively crew of presenters. that wins. it’s an engineer’s album, with con-studio. 
all in all, it was an entertain­servative songwriting and impressive mixing. but for most viewers, the 
ing evening. The band is reliable and established, though system is too complicated. 
so no, the grammys aren’t still relevant. The album is always listenable, it ends up being a numbers 
writing history. The awards even enjoyable. but it is never exciting — game, as in “Frank ocean 
they bestow tend to miss the and this is what really annoys us. This year, took home two grammys, 
mark and viewership remains album of the year was awarded to mumford while The black Keys earned 
less than ideal. but it cannot and sons’ second studio effort, “babel.” three.” The specifics are too 
be ignored that the grammys objectively, the album is solid and impres-much work. 
are a happening scene. The sive, but it’s a perfect example of what the ironically, lack of specific-
show is an avenue for dis­grammys tend to both value and ignore. ity is one of the show’s major 
covering new music and in recent years, the grammys have paid issues. in the age of techno­
seeing great bands perform. 
small but noticeable attention to some of logical omnipotence, the music scene is more anytime the rich and famous get dressed 
the underdogs. last year bon iver took home diverse than anyone in the 1950s, when the up and gather, the masses will watch. Justin 
best new artist, and this year Frank ocean show first aired, could possibly imagine. The Timberlake said it best on stage. “as long as i 
received notable attention. but an off-kilter grammys reduce the music scene to too basic got my suit and tie…” 
air still lingers around the show for several a field. The end result is mostly an homage 
reasons. to the moneymakers with a few pathetic at-Contact Mac Hendrickson at 
unlike the oscars, the categories for tempts at helping the underdog. mhendri1@nd.edu 
grammy achievement are diverse and con-it’s 2013, and tastes are so diverse and al-The views expressed in this column are those 
voluted. most category titles seem too spe-bums so frequently enjoyable that choosing of the author and not necessarily those of The 
cific. splitting hairs between solo work and an album of the year caters to fewer viewers Observer. 


SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Claire Stephens 
scene writer 

This year’s grammy awards had more than its fair share of good ensembles, ones that simply did not work and more than usual “what were they thinking?” looks. despite the strict dress code of the event, several Adele 

Taylor Swift 
female celebs managed to get around it and show some Though it’s refreshing to see some-
swift looked like something out of (too much?) skin. one in a color besides black, the red 
a Tim burton film during her white, floral pattern was over the top in a bad 
sparkly, ring-leader circus perfor­way — it was unflattering, frumpy and 
mance. The bottom of the dress, big-looked like a print from your grand-
buttoned jacket and gold-striped hat mother’s ugly curtains. 
could have gone either way between fabulous and failure. 
Jennifer Lopez 
what might have been a simple 
Frank Ocean Chris Brown look (an over-the-shoulder dress with 
The outfit for his performance (a The all white look was clean and striking, despite the a formal up-do) is completely ruined 
yellow suit with sweatband across his overly-casual posture he seemed to be parked in dur-by the too-high slit, which revealed head) was certainly out there, as were ing most of the evening. enough leg to be vulgar instead of sexy. angelina Jolie’s the visual effects of the performance. ocean’s red-
sassy leg-through-the-slit look might have worked at carpet look was also strange. The navy, unbuttoned Carrie Underwood the oscars, but Jlo’s exposed thigh does not. suit couldn’t seem to make up its mind between formal she knocked it out of the park, both 
and casual. with her classy, form-fitting red carpet 
Katy Perry 
dress and her silver gown during her 
perry’s long-sleeved dress was a performance. even though the simple 
minty, sea-foam green — a shade that silver dress with unique geometric bust 
didn’t work with her skin tone or hair worked on its own, the dress stole the 
color. This look was made worse by the show as moving patterns ran across it, 
huge opening in the bust, which put all thanks to the special-effects lighting. 
the focus on “the girls.” Just because you’ve got it, Katy perry, doesn’t mean 
Rihanna 

you should flaunt all of it. going more conservative, rihanna wore a long, flowing red dress, and the 
Beyonce 
sheer sections in the torso of the dress 
a disappointing lack of formal-added just a little bit of edge. she went 
ity after her fierce super bowl outfit, for classy and chose solid colors — red beyonce’s black pants and boxy black-for the red carpet and black for the stage . however, the and-white top wouldn’t be nice enough for sunday white and silver striped pant/midriff top outfit from brunch, much less the grammys. 
Image courtesy of wsoctv.com Image courtesy of glamour.com her second performance belonged in the “too casual Kimbra for the grammys” category/ 2 Chainz Kimbra looked as if she had rhinestones glued all 
what would have been a good look is turned into over her body, but the look was actually just a nude Tim McGraw something that looks like it belongs in comiccon, with dress covered in sparkles. whether her dress was de­he sported a look absolutely no woman could resist all its bad accessories. The rapper should have lost the signed by a 5-year-old at craft time is another question 
— the timeless, stylishly-cut black jacket with a black cape and wrestler-esque belt, unless he was going for a entirely. button-down shirt. mcgraw added a matching cowboy batman or dracula look. hat and left a few shirt buttons undone to mix mascu-
Florence Welch 
line with suave. 

while a metallic-colored dress or large, spiky studs would have been an eye-turning look on its own, welch 
Kelly Rowland 

seems to have come dressed as bowser, by sporting Flirting with the line between sexy and tasteful, the 
both. geometric cut-outs in rowland’s form-fitting black dress covered just enough to keep the look from going 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
too far. on top of that, the mermaid-style skirt was a 
The views expressed in this column are those of the 
beautiful look on its own. 

author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 






Image courtesy of hollywoodreporter.com SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

stay calm about baseball’s arrival 

Sam Gans 
sports writer 
Two items blew up my Facebook newsfeed monday. one involved something that hasn’t happened in centuries. The other was because of some­thing that occurs yearly, and always elicits the same giddy re­action from many people. 
pitchers and catchers have started to report to spring training. 
yes, mlb’s preseason unof­ficially began monday, and by next monday, each team will have its full roster — posi­tion players and all — in either Florida or arizona to prepare for grapefruit and cactus league baseball, respectively. 
For some reason, baseball’s camp opening seems to be big­ger than the other sports, cer­tainly the nba and nhl, at least. This is not extremely surprising, because mlb is more popu­lar than both of those leagues, based on television ratings and attendance. 
but it also even gets more buzz than this country’s most popular groundhog day indicates will happen. The beginning of spring training shows that, yes, at some point, the dog days of summer will indeed arrive (though per­haps by that point, the unbear­able heat will have you longing for the cold again). 
probably the biggest oddity about the whole media buzz that pitchers and catchers reporting gets is that we’re still very far away from the season even start­ing.  it is mid-February, and the vast majority of teams don’t open their regular seasons until april. yet the coverage makes it feel like they play next week. 
This year, the large gap be­tween when pitchers and catch­ers report and opening day will be filled nicely by the world baseball classic in march to help make the time move quicker, but this is atypical. and the reaction from fans when spring training rolls around is almost always the same, whether the world baseball classic is played that year or not. 
i’m a baseball fan. not as big as some on this campus, but i en­joy the sport. i will watch many contests on television from april 

In no way am I saying to not be excited that spring training is about to begin, but we’re still more than a month-and-a-half away from regular-season action. 
league: the nFl. perhaps this is because nFl coverage is basical­ly year-round, with the combine, draft and mini-camps filling the offseason void. Therefore, the start of training camp for foot­ball fans isn’t as big of a deal. still, it would make sense the nFl training camp would have more coverage than mlb based on its popularity. but baseball’s gets much more media attention and hype. 
in particular, it seems difficult to focus on preparing for a sport to begin like baseball — famous for being played during warm summer nights on lush green fields — when the weather out­side is freezing. literally. 
and yet, maybe that’s why pitchers and catchers report­ing gets people as excited as it does. when you walk outside in February and see the ground covered in snow or feel the cold winter wind whipping across your face, spring can seem like it will never come, no matter what through october, just like most sports fans, and attend some games in person this summer. but my excitement is still tem­pered. There’s a long way to go until the umpire can yell “play ball” in a game that actually counts. 
in no way, baseball fans, am i saying to not be excited that spring training is about to begin, but we’re still more a month­and-a-half away from regular-season action. be pumped your team is finally gathering to prepare to attempt a run at the pennant, but keep things in per­spective, and realize the base­ball season’s a marathon, not a sprint. 
Forty-one days isn’t a few cen­turies, but it’s still a long time. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MLB 
Leyland reflects on career as he prepares for season 
Associated Press 
detroit manager Jim leyland arrived at the Tigers’ training camp monday in lakeland, Fla., exactly 50 years after he first showed up there as a pencil-thin 18-year-old prospect. 
if you were expecting se­pia-tinged memories about a kid from ohio basking in the sunshine and seeing his dream laid out in front of him, well, you don’t know leyland. or at least not well enough. 
“i remember going over to watch the big-league guys as soon as i got there and saw the caliber of play. and short­ly after that, i had a good idea i wasn’t going to make it — not as a ballplayer, anyway,” he recalled during a tele­phone interview. 
he was right. leyland’s first paycheck was for $125, “and that was for two weeks,” he chuckled. he went on to become, in his own words, “a double-a backup, flunky catcher” who never hit better than .243. 
“i hung around for seven years in the minors and they (the Tigers organization) de­cided the rest for me. First, they made me a player-coach and then one of the fellas who was supposed to manage the rookie league team wandered off somewhere, so they said, ‘why don’t you give it a try?’ That was 1971,” he added. “so things worked out pretty good.’ 
leyland is so understated it’s easy to get the impression that his career and all that success — almost 1,700 wins, three manager of the year awards, a world series title and runner-up finish in 2012 
— were little more than a string of happy accidents. in truth, for most of his career, leyland was rarely in the right place at the right time long enough for lightning to strike. 
he spent his first 11 seasons managing in five different 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

towns at different levels of the minors, occasionally stuck with teams so bad that a half-dozen errors and 10 walks per game were routine. he endured eating in truck stops and being stranded on two-lane highways along­side buses with flat tires at 4 o’clock in the morning. when leyland finally made it to the major leagues in 1982, with an assist from close pal and then-white sox manag­er Tony la russa, it was as a third-base coach. 
“it didn’t take long to see just how good he was, but i knew a little about that when we got him,” la russa said. “i managed against Jim the first time in Triple-a in 1979, and we did it a lot more than i wanted to after that. he’s got a real passion for competing.” 
Turns out leyland has a passion for more than just competing, though the rest of us rarely see it. la russa laughed out loud when told how the only story leyland recounted about his first visit to lakeland was realizing he wasn’t a good enough ball­player to carve out a living for long. 
“That’s perfect,” said la russa, who retired after the 2011 season. “Jim’s a funny guy, engaging and interesting and fun to be around — when it’s just coaches and play­ers. he likes to sing, too, but almost nobody knows it, because he takes being the leader of the team seriously, at least when he thinks it’s time to compete. ... so not be­ing nostalgic, not wanting to sound distracted, that’s Jim, too. it just means he’s already in compete mode.” 
Those who don’t know leyland as well should wish he cut himself more slack. he often comes off as a base­ball lifer buffeted by a series of headwinds who loves the game a lot more than it loved him back. 
leyland got his first big-league managing job in pittsburgh and lost the nl championship series three years in a row. Tougher still was hanging on after the cost-conscious pirates’ or­ganization effectively gave up, letting guys like bobby bonilla and barry bonds slip away, before they started cutting to the bone. leyland eventually migrated to miami, where he hoisted the world series trophy and gave a brief emotional speech. 
“This is for all the minor league managers, the guys in the instructional leagues. so don’t give up.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Eight Yogi Berra Quotes: 
“I think Little Leauge is wonderful. “I don’t know (if they were men or It keeps the kids out of the house.” women fans running naked across the field). They had bags over their heads.” “The game ain’t over until it’s over.” 
“I never said most of the things I said.” “When you come to a 
fork in the road, take it.” “It gets late early out there.” 
“You should always go to oth­“Baseball is ninety percent men-er people’s funerals; other­tal. The other half is physical.” wise, they won’t come to yours.” 

NFL 

Vick takes pay cut to stay with Eagles 

contract said vick could earn “what he can do, how he can “we’re an equal-opportunity up to $10 million in 2013 if throw the football, how he scoring operation. whether he meets all his performance can beat people with his feet. we run the ball over the goal incentives, and the team There are a lot of different fac-line or throw the ball over the will void the remaining two tors he has. and you have to goal line really doesn’t bother years on march 15. That per-look at the landscape for other me, it’s how do we move the son spoke on condition of quarterbacks. i guess the best football. anonymity because the terms way i can put this is i agree “There have been games haven’t been released. there is a change of scenery go-we’ve had to throw it in our 
vick was slated to earn ing on here. For michael vick, league 50 times and there are about $16 million next season, there is a change of scenery, games we have to run it 50 including a $3 million roster but not a change of address.” times. you need to be built for bonus. he lost his starting job since the eagles hired Kelly the long haul. There is a skill to rookie nick Foles last sea-to replace andy reid, there’s set that nick has that really son, but new coach chip Kelly been plenty of speculation excites me about him. i think will give him a chance to win about which quarterback will we’ve got an older quarterback it back. run his aggressive, up-tempo in michael who is 32 now, and 
“i am grateful and proud to offense. Though Kelly has have a younger guy in nick be a philadelphia eagle,” vick been effusive in his praise for who is going into his second wrote on Twitter. “my heart is Foles, the slow-footed, pock-year, and i think it’s the ideal in philly and this community et-passer isn’t an ideal fit for situation for us moving for-is important to me.” a zone-read offense. Kelly, ward this season.” 
vick had a breakout year in though, said he will cater Kelly didn’t rule out a trade, to a restructured three-year 2010, leading the eagles to the his offense around his play-however. 
Associated Press 

contract with the eagles, just nFc east title, winning The ers’ strengths. after all, he’s “i don’t rule anything out, philadelphia — michael two seasons after signing a associated press comeback known for being an offensive i don’t rule anything in,” he 
vick took a significant pay cut $100 million extension that in-player of the year award and innovator who had tremen-said. “but i know moving for-
to stay with the philadelphia cluded $35.5 million in guar-starting in the pro bowl. but dous success at oregon. ward we, as an organization, 
eagles and compete for a anteed money. The new deal he’s battled injuries and in-“i don’t think what we do had to make a decision on 
starting job. is essentially for one-year, consistency the last two years. offensively can be said in one what to do with michael, and i The four-time pro bowl however. “what i look at is skillset or two words that we’re either want michael to be part of this 
quarterback agreed monday a source familiar with the first and foremost,” Kelly said. this or we’re this,” Kelly said. team.” 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Big Ten disapproves of of recruiting changes 
have reservations about loos-
Associated Press 

ened ncaa recruiting rules big Ten athletic directors that would allow unlimited and football coaches say they contact between recruiters 
paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 

and high school players. 
The ncaa board of directors in January approved rulebook revisions that, among other things, remove limits on the number of phone calls and text messages to prospective recruits. The eased restric­tions are set to begin July 1. 
during their regularly scheduled meeting in park ridge, ill., on monday, athletic directors and coaches issued a statement expressing “seri­ous concerns whether these proposals, as currently writ­ten, are in the best interest of high school student-athletes, their families and their coach­es.” The ads and coaches also said they “are also concerned about the adverse effect they would have on college coach­es, administrators and uni­versity resources.” 
ohio state coach urban meyer, who put together one of the nation’s top-ranked recruiting classes this year, called the looming changes “bad stuff.” 
nebraska coach bo pelini said he’s spoken with high school coaches who are wor­ried that their players will be overwhelmed with phone calls, texts and mailings. 
“i think it’s going down the wrong road,” pelini said. 
ncaa president mark emmert in august 2011 urged the governing body of col­lege sports to pare down its massive rulebook to elimi­nate rules on relatively minor issues such as phone calls. 
a group of college presidents sent 26 proposed rule changes to the board, which approved 25 of them during the ncaa convention. Five of the rules affect recruiting. 
The big Ten athletic direc­tors and coaches said they were concerned that the July 1 start date wouldn’t al­low the Football recruiting subcommittee of the ncaa 
leadership  council  to  
“thoughtfully  consider  the  
impact of the proposals.”  

The statement said the ads and coaches are specifically concerned with three of the changes. 
The first would allow schools to hire additional staff, beyond the allowable 10 full-time coaches, that would focus solely on recruiting. The second would deregulate phone calls and text messages, allowing coaches to contact a prospect an unlimited num­ber of time beginning July 1 after the prospect’s sopho­more year of high school. 
The third would allow schools to send an unlim­ited number of mailings to prospects. 
The big Ten athletic direc­tors and coaches did not raise concerns with the removal of restrictions on how many coaches can recruit off cam­pus at one time or the elimi­nation of required materials a school must send to recruits, such as lists of banned drugs and the school’s academic progress rate data. 
meyer said the people who came up with the idea to de­regulate recruiting probably had never gone through the recruiting process as an ath­lete or coach. 
“i’m not a big fan of deregu­lation,” meyer said. “i’m a big fan of firm, harsh penalties for people who break rules, not saying, ‘Just go — we can’t fol­low all this stuff, so have at it.’ i don’t agree with that at all.” 
pelini said the ncaa rules makers need to meet with football coaches and adminis­trators to develop a good un­derstanding of the challenges in recruiting. pelini said the easing of the rules will cause recruited athletes to spend less time concentrating on their schoolwork and develop­ing as an athlete and person. 
“The more time a kid is spending on the phone texting and on the telephone and do­ing all the other things that are taking away from that is doing the kids ... a disservice.” 
pelini said he would grudg­ingly change the way nebraska recruits if the rule changes are implemented July 1. 
“you’re going to have to change some things in your staff and how you go about things to give yourself the best opportunity to keep up with the Joneses,” pelini said. “believe me, we’ll do what’s necessary to put together the best classes we possibly can.” 



NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Colorado State breaks into top 25 

Associated Press 
The buzz in the colorado state locker room was all about the basketball polls monday — and that was even before the rams learned they had cracked the rankings for the first time since 1954. 
“we were all kind of won­dering if miami was going to jump up to no. 1 after all those upsets,” rams senior forward greg smith said. “That was more of the dis­cussion in the locker room. it wasn’t really about us.” 
after the two-hour practice ended at 9 a.m., an exhausted smith grabbed some break­fast and hit the books. 
“Then my Twitter started blowing up. everybody was saying, ‘we’re ranked! we’re ranked!’” smith said. “people sent me links. That’s how i found out. Then, my team­mates starting calling me.” 
The rams are 24th in both The associated press men’s basketball poll and the usa Today poll, their first foray into the rankings since march of 1954 — 20 months before colorado state coach larry eustachy was born. 
“it’s neat for our players and for our program. That’s exciting news for our guys, but we still have to play very difficult games” this week against san diego state and air Force, said eustachy, ever the pragmatist, downplaying the polls. 
“i think right now all of us are really excited,” smith said, noting that transfers daniel bejarano (university of arizona) and colton iverson (university of minnesota) “are the only two guys who have played on a ranked team. They know how to handle it. 
“but i think all of us that have been around here for a while are really just happy that we’re finally being rec­
“Honestly, we’ve got a lot of seniors ... We should stay pretty grounded because of our age. It’s only a label. Just a couple of days ago we were the 28-th best team.” 
Greg Smith 
Rams forward 
ognized as being one of the best teams in the nation. we’ve just got to go out and keep playing like it, starting wednesday.” 
by the way, miami, the ob­ject of the rams’ early morn­ing curiosity, rose to no. 3 in the rankings, behind only no. 1 indiana and no. 2 duke after a succession of impres­sive wins and losses by highly ranked teams. 

paid adverTisemenT 
night at moby arena, where they’ve won 26 straight games. 
only syracuse (37) and south dakota state (27) boast longer home winning streaks. 
“i was just talking with my 
paid adverTisemenT 


The rams (19-4, 6-2 mountain west) face pre­season favorite san diego state (18-5, 6-3) wednesday brother. i was like, three years ago, would you ever be think­ing that if san diego state were to beat us that it would be an upset?” smith said. “it’s nice to have that target on our back. but now we’ve got to go out there and keep doing what we’re doing.” 
smith said the senior-laden rams should have no trouble keeping all this national rec­ognition from going to their heads, too. 
“honestly, we’ve got a lot of seniors,” he said. “we should stay pretty grounded because of our age. it’s only a label. Just a couple of days ago we were the 28th-best team. miraculously, three days lat­er, we’re the 24th-best team. we’ve just got to stick to what we’re doing, go out and focus and keep getting wins.” 
eustachy, who took over from Tim miles in april and who’s in line to take his fourth school to the ncaa tourna­ment after guiding southern miss, iowa state and utah state there, said his focus is on the mountain west race, where the rams trail no. 19 new mexico by a half game for first place. 
“new mexico is clearly the team to catch, but there are other teams right behind them that have a chance, and i think that we are one of them,” eustachy said. “it’s going to come down to who plays the best basketball in the second round of confer­ence play.” 
The rams were ranked four weeks overall in 1953-54, ris­ing as high as no. 18. 
making for a fitting story line, the rams will celebrate the program’s heritage by wearing pumpkin orange and alfalfa green uniforms with the colorado a&m mas­cot “aggies” written across their chests for wednesday’s game against san diego state, which is in third place in the tightening mwc race. 
“i’m not a real ‘poll watch­er’ .. but i am extremely aware of where (teams) are in con­ference,” eustachy said. “our goal is to win a champion­ship. it always has been.” 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2013 | The observer 

MLB 

Pitchers and catchers report for spring training 

Associated Press 
new marlins manager mike redmond arrived at his office at 5 a.m. monday ready to go long before the Florida sun was shining, his thoughts already on a date 254 days from now: game 1 of the world series. 
ah, spring training. when all 30 teams are still contenders. 
“everybody’s excited,” redmond said in Jupiter. “obviously, we’ve got a tre­mendous opportunity for guys in this camp and i think every­body realizes that. it’s a fresh start.” 
From a chilly and damp phoenix, ariz., to balmy Kissimmee, Fla., pitchers and catchers for 10 teams reported to training camp monday, tak­ing physicals, meeting new teammates and, in some cas­es, managers and coaches. 
The pop of fastballs in mitts, they could be heard, too. 
many eager players have been working out “informal­ly” for weeks on minor league fields — position players don’t report for several more days, and all teams will be in full swing by the weekend. 
in Tampa, Fla., yankees cap­tain derek Jeter ran on a tread­mill for the first time since breaking his ankle on oct. 13, a big step toward reaching his goal of being in new york’s opening day lineup on april 1 against boston in the bronx. 
in his third week of baseball activities, Jeter was on the in­field grass fielding groundballs and in a batting cage taking swings — all while dozens of autograph-seeking fans lined up outside the yankees’ minor league complex down the road from the big league facility. 

“i feel fine,” Jeter said. “i was able to do everything else. i just had to be careful with my ankle, but now i’ve gotten the green light with that. i’ve got­ten all the green lights i need.” 
in Fort myers, Fla., red sox principal owner John henry put to rest reports that he was considering selling the franchise. 
“you just don’t get an oppor­tunity to own something like the boston red sox. as long as we can do it, the three of us are committed to being here,” henry told reporters, while ac­knowledging team president larry lucchino and chairman Tom werner. “These thoughts that we’re somehow selling, those are just not true.” 
with a new manager, John Farrell, replacing bobby valentine after one disastrous 69-93 season, henry likes boston’s chances. 
“i would say, especially in comparison to last year, i should be optimistic,” henry said. 
in Kissimmee, Fla., the houston astros began their first day in the bruising al west. one of the most inexpe­rienced teams in baseball will wear fiery orange practice hats and jerseys that evoke the or­ange rainbow stripes of a bet­ter time for an organization that lost over 100 games each of the past two seasons. 
“we’ve talked about change throughout the organization, from the time (owner) Jim crane has taken over the ball club and all the hires he has made,” first-year manager bo porter said. “This year (the uniform change) kind of sets the tone because they visually see things have changed. and when you realize that things have changed, you first realize that they’re never going to be the same. 
also hoping for a clean start, bartolo colon is back with the oakland athletics after serv­ing a 50-game suspension for a positive testosterone test. he had little to say crossing a damp practice field in phoenix after a 90-minute exam but he’s excited to be with a team that won the al west in thrill­ing fashion last year, rally­ing over the final 10 games to grab the title from the Texas rangers. 
manager bob melvin isn’t worried about colon getting right back in the flow with his teammates. 
“he fit in very well here be­fore and i see that being the same case,” melvin said. “he knows most of these guys and they all liked him very much and got along with them all and actually was a nice little resource for our younger start­ers. so, i don’t see any prob­lems there.” 
as his teammates reported to cardinals camp in Jupiter, Fla., chris carpenter told me­dia in st. louis he he’s not rul­ing out pitching again — even this season. 
last week, the cardinals said the 37-year-old former ace almost certainly won’t pitch in 2013 and that his career is probably over after a recur­rence of a nerve injury that cost him most of last season. 
“maybe i don’t ever want it to end,” said carpenter, the 2005 nl cy young award winner. “i don’t think i’ll ever retire, to be honest with you. i’ll never say that word. There might always be hope. maybe like when i’m 48 i can come back and pitch some more.” 
NHL 

Blue Jackets pull off upset against Sharks 
The sharks did not play like a right corner to muck out the season — but first point in six dubinsky dug the puck off 
Associated Press 

team that flew into columbus puck. derick brassard ended games — and came just 13 sec-the back boards for a center­
columbus, ohio — on saturday and had only up with it, skating along the onds after goloubef’s goal. ing pass to Fedor Tyutin that brandon dubinsky had a played one game in the last goal line toward the cage, seconds later, the puck was deflected wide of the cage. goal and an assist and the six days. The blue Jackets had drawing goalie Thomas greiss. leaked through a scrum in calvert collected it and tried columbus blue Jackets had played four games in that same but brassard slid a quick pass front of the net and mason to get a shot on goal that was their biggest offensive assault span and were in action at to wisniewski for a one-timer had to dive to cover it as it slid tipped back to dubinsky, who of the season against the nhl’s home for the second night in a at the left hash to make it 2-0. across the goal line. not long jammed it past greiss. stingiest defense in a 6-2 vic-row. Just over a minute later, it after that, Foligno carried the noTes: columbus rw Jared tory over the san Jose sharks san Jose came in allowing an was 3-0. goloubef, playing in puck from end to end past sev-boll fought rw matt pelech, on monday night. nhl-low 1.82 goals per game. his fifth career nhl game, sat eral sharks for a one-on-one called up earlier in the day, 
James wisniewski and nikita columbus was next-to-last in in the right point while derek chance that greiss was able to early in the first period. it was nikitin added goals, cody the 30-team league scoring macKenzie carried the puck stop. boll’s 120th career nhl fight goloubef picked up his first just 1.92 goals a game. along the back boards and slid after the break, the blue giving him an unofficial blue nhl goal and vinny prospal The blue Jackets completed the puck from the left corner Jackets were at it again. Just 21 Jackets franchise “record,” and mark letestu tied a fran-a franchise record-tying six-across the ice to him. he stead-seconds into the third calvert breaking the mark of 119 set chise record by scoring 8 sec-game homestand with a record ied the puck and then rocketed slid a pass from behind the by Jody shelley. ... san Jose had onds apart in the third period. of 2-3-1. a slap shot, with Foligno and goal cage to the onrushing just one goal in its last 27 pow-nick Foligno and matt calvert in one of the wildest peri-derek dorsett providing traffic nikitin, who put his blade on er plays before pavelski’s late each had two assists. ods of the season — the teams in front of the net. the ice and almost pushed the goal. ... it was the most goals 
columbus scored 43 seconds scored three goals in 84 sec-The 23-year-old defenseman puck through greiss for his scored by the blue Jackets into the game, added two goals onds — the blue Jackets ex-had four goals in 21 games at first of the year. since the final game of the 
1:11 apart in the second period panded a one-goal lead in the ahl springfield this season. dubinsky, who hadn’t scored otherwise forgettable 2011­and then scored three goals in second. before that goal could be an-a goal since april 5, 2012, at 12 season. They beat the new the opening 5:45 of the final They stacked up three power nounced, san Jose’s marleau pittsburgh while he was a new york islanders 7-3 on april 7, period. plays, including 36 seconds of pulled up at the top of the left york ranger, had a big first 20 2012. ... The two goals in 8 sec­
patrick marleau and Joe 5 on 3. after that expired, they circle and hit a hard shot that minutes. dubinsky came to onds by prospal and letestu pavelski scored for the sharks, made it 2-0 with the man ad-wisniewski couldn’t block columbus in the blockbuster tied a franchise mark set oct. who have lost five in a row after vantage when r.J. umberger and mason couldn’t stop. it deal that sent rick nash to the 17, 2008 (Jake voracek, nikita a 7-0 start. fought off brad stuart in the was marleau’s 10th goal of the rangers last summer. Filatov). 


ND SOFTBALL 

Gumpf continues to lead Irish in 12th season 

the top coaches in college “playing under coach 
By KATIE HEIT 

sports writer softball. gumpf is a great opportu­
senior catcher amy buntin nity not many players are 
entering her 12th sea-said playing under gumpf’s lucky enough to experience,” son with the irish, deanna tutelage is a unique opportu-buntin said. “she has greatly gumpf continues to assert nity she and her teammates helped not only my develop-her dominance as one of are privileged to experience. ment as a player but also as a person. it is easy to see how much coach gumpf cares about her players.” 
gumpf has led the irish (2-2) to 11 straight trips to the ncaa Tournament and has claimed four big east Tournament titles. a native of la palma, calif., gumpf played college softball at nebraska and graduated with a degree in business man­agement. after graduation, she pursued a career in busi­ness before returning to the sport. For two years, gumpf coached at long beach state before a position opened at notre dame. 
since she joined the irish, the notre dame coaching staff has received various honors, including the nFca mideast region coaching staff of the year award twice and the big east coaching staff of the year award in 2002, 2004 and 2011. 
buntin said gumpf makes sure she shapes her players’ mental drive as well as their physical ability. 
“sure we do drills and drills and more drills, but we also take time to assess our men­tal game which plays an im­portant role in our sport,” buntin said. 
buntin said she also learned to be a fighter from gumpf. in 2010, gumpf’s 4-year-old daughter Tatum was diag­nosed with leukemia. buntin said gumpf “never stopped fighting through the whole process.” 
“she never gave up faith,” buntin said. “she stayed pos­itive, which showed me how positivity can have a big im­pact on life in general.” 
due to Tatum’s illness, the irish “strike out cancer” game has been dedicated to­ward finding a cure for lym­phoblastic leukemia. 
buntin said because of gumpf’s influence on the mental, physical and spiritu­al aspects of each of her play­ers, buntin believes this will be the best season in her four years on the irish squad. 
“we have everything we need to take this program where it’s never gone before,” gumpf said. “i’ve seen it ev­ery day in practice. now it’s just a matter of executing it on the field.” 
The irish next take the field Friday against washington at noon in san diego. 
Contact Katie Heit at                kheit@nd.edu 
Tennis 
conTinued From page 16 
let some things go.” 
The match against Kentucky represents notre dame’s fifth match against a top-40 oppo­nent this spring. The irish are currently 1-3 in these matches, but have four more matches against top-25 opponents, in­cluding Kentucky, in the next month to improve their record against top competition. 
“you’d think that playing strong teams makes you stron­ger because you are forced to meet the competitive level that you’ll see and generally that’s the truth,” bayliss said. “but i think there’s a limit — everyone has a limit — and you don’t want to take too many losses because your confidence begins to suffer. we need to beat somebody at this level soon and hopefully it can come relatively quickly.” 
The irish will face off against the wildcats today at 1 p.m. in lexington, Ky. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
Please recycle 
The Observer. 
Points 
conTinued From page 16 

rebounds, her 13th double-double of the season. 
achonwa showed no mercy in the paint — with five min­utes to go in the first half, she collided with louisville soph­omore guard bria smith, who was louisville’s top scorer with 18 points. The impact sent both players crashing to the floor, and achonwa at­tended the postgame press conference with at least three separate bags of ice. 
“we don’t call fouls in prac­tice,” achonwa said when asked about her willingness to play such a physical style. “it’s similar to the game to­day. even in the foul shots — i think we quadrupled them in how many we took. i think it’s just from being aggressive.” 
diggins scored 21 points on the evening and added seven assists in the 93-point outburst. 
“i think it’s easy for her be­cause she has such great vi­sion,” mcgraw said. “she can see people who are open. at the beginning of the game she wants to get us going and was able to do that, and then in the second half she’s looking for other people.” 
The win was the 118th since diggins and fellow senior guard Kaila Turner joined the team, making them the winningest senior class in program history. 
“i didn’t think we’d lose any,” mcgraw joked when asked if she expected these results when she recruited diggins. “i’ve been a little dis­appointed — she’s got to make it up to me this year.” 
once she was done joking, mcgraw said this year’s junior class was largely responsible for many of those wins. 
“i think skylar came into the season as the veteran player with [junior guard] Kayla mcbride, but [this is achonwa’s] first year in the starting lineup, [junior for­ward] ariel braker came out of nowhere to take the starting job,” mcgraw said. “i think the whole class has really been phenomenal this year. … They have no weakness right now, and it’s great for skylar, it takes a lot of pressure off her.” 
while diggins might be feeling the weight of expecta­tions for a national title, she certainly isn’t too concerned by statistics and records. 
“i didn’t know,” she replied when asked about breaking the record for most wins as a class. “it’s good, let’s keep it going.” 
The irish next face marquette in milwaukee, on sunday at 2:30 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
Diggins 
conTinued From page 16 

her head assuredly. Twenty sec­onds later, diggins converted a steal into a fast break layup and forced the first timeout of the game. 
The confident look from irish coach muffet mcgraw as the starters headed to the bench said it all. diggins had brought her “a” game. her tournament-caliber game. as the senior leader goes, so too go the irish. The team’s focus from the first whistle signaled a long night for louisville. 
it wasn’t a one-woman show, however. with 5:18 to play in the first half, irish junior guard Kayla mcbride fouled smith, sending her crashing to the floor. although smith left the game briefly, nothing about the play was dirty. mcbride went for the ball, and mcgraw even thought she had made a clean block. nonetheless, it sent a message. in a nationally tele­vised game against a ranked opponent, notre dame was not going to concede anything easy. 
even the freshmen got in on the action. one minute after mcbride’s hard foul, guard Jewell loyd found herself with the ball in transition, ahead of all but one cardinal defender. rather than force a shot, she fired an accurate cross-court pass to her classmate michaela mabrey, who drained a 20-foot jumper. mabrey’s shot forced another louisville timeout and drew an approving high-five from the captain diggins. The intensity was infectious. 
These are good signs for a streaking irish team as it winds down the regular season. They demonstrated the ability to put away a quality team at home. notre dame was coming off a two-game road trip during which it had trouble executing. in victories over villanova and seton hall, the irish let their opponents hang around. They made sure this wasn’t the case in front of the friendly purcell pavilion crowd monday night. 
luckily for notre dame, the combined record of the final three teams it must face on the road is 36-34, and 12-18 in big east play. it will play tough games against no. 23 syracuse and no. 3 connecticut at home. 
Though the irish still have nearly a month left in the regu­lar season, they have clearly demonstrated one thing: They possess the ability to flip the switch. behind the leadership of the veteran diggins, notre dame can raise its intensity like it did monday and make anoth­er deep tournament run. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2013 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Taylor lautner, 21; damian lewis, 42; Jennifer aniston, 44; sheryl crow, 51 
Happy Birthday: passionately embrace whatever you need to do and you will find solu­tions. believe in your capabilities rather than trusting in what someone else professes to be able to do. don’t limit your possibilities when incorporating the wisdom you have gained from the restrictions you’ve encountered. your numbers are 2, 8, 11, 28, 34, 36, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): cutting corners will not turn out well. pay attention to detail and go the extra mile. it’s better to be considered an overachiever, especially if you want to make an impression on someone who influences your income. love is on the rise. 



TAURUS (April 20-May 20): if you want something, ask for it. Favors will be granted and can make your life easier. new acquaintances will lead to interesting groups and pastimes that will allow you to pick up new skills or explore diverse ways of using your talents. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Taking on the impossible will make you look back. you may want to follow a creative path, but making sure it is also practical will be what counts. Too much of anything will slow you down. Keep whatever you do simple. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): make an impression. speak up, call the shots and take over. a partnership will form with someone with as much to offer as you. a change in the way you do things must not be made on a whim. concentrate on using your attributes. 



LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): added responsibilities can be expected if you are in either a busi­ness or personal partnership. Keep tabs on expenditures and contracts that are coming up for renewal. you can lower your overhead if you are diligent in your dealings 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): conflicts are best dealt with quickly. size up your situation and make your move before someone takes advantage of you. Talks must be kept cordial or nothing will be resolved. back away from anyone showing a temper instead of reason. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): interact with people from different backgrounds or network with individuals you find motivating or inspiring. love is on the rise and opportuni­ties will come into play if you partner with someone aspiring to reach similar goals. a partnership will change your life. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make plans to improve your home and personal relation­ships. you don’t have to spend to win someone’s attention. Focus on spending less and stabilizing your financial future. communication will help you find peace through shared solutions. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): back away from anyone asking for the impossible. Trust issues are apparent, and listening carefully to what’s being said will help you bypass getting involved in a fiasco. make changes at home that will add to your comfort and happiness. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): revisit past problems and experiences and you will know how to deal with someone who is being impulsive or erratic. Too much of anything will lead to trouble. gauge your time and your intake when it comes to socializing or accommodating others. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): set strict rules and focus on what you want to accomplish. don’t let personal problems dictate what you can and cannot do. it’s important that your motives are right and that you are honest about what you want to pursue. opportunity knocks. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): set goals that will improve your financial position. There is money to be made if you follow your intuition and your creative vision. help will be offered if you lay out your strategy for someone with a good eye, wisdom and experience to view. 


Birthday Baby: you like to please. you desire recognition. you embrace unfamiliar territory. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 93, louisville 64 
irish deny cardinals’ upset attempt 
Achonwa leads squad with 22 points, 12 rebounds 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
For much of the first half of notre dame’s 93-64 win over louisville on monday night, the cardinals were the pesky oppo­nents who wouldn’t go away. 
They trailed 18-7 after six minutes, were behind by 15 with four minutes left in the first pe­riod and entered halftime with a 10-point deficit. but each time the no. 10 cardinals (20-5, 8-3 big east) cut the lead to single digits. 
The irish might not have been thinking about the louisville men, who showed what can happen when a team fails to put an opponent away in regulation in purcell pavilion on saturday night, but two minutes into the second half the no. 2 irish (23­1, 11-0) suddenly looked like a 
team  that didn’t  want  to  risk  
overtime.  
“[senior  guard]  skylar  

[diggins] and i were talking yes­terday; imagine a game where everybody played well on the same night, how good we could be,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “i think that’s just what we saw in the second half.” 
Junior forward natalie achonwa scored seven points during the 13-2 notre dame run cardinals’ hopes of extending night with 22 points and 12 that stretched the lead to 20 and their winning streak to seven permanently extinguished the games. achonwa finished the see poinTs PAGE 14 


ND playing up to tournament standards 

Cory Bernard 
sports writer 
The big east tournament does not begin until march 8, and the ncaa tournament does not be­gin until march 23. but make no mistake, the irish played a tour­nament game monday night. 
They did a number of things better than louisville in their 29-point victory. no. 2 notre dame shot better from the floor than the no. 10 cardinals by a wide margin and collected al­most twice as many rebounds. but the irish also bested louisville in an intangible yet immensely important category: intensity. 
The intensity began barely two minutes into the game. after a perfectly executed slip screen by irish junior forward ariel braker, louisville guard bria smith had no choice but to follow the forward to the block. That left cardinals forward sara hammond guarding senior guard skylar diggins 30 feet from the basket. after a ruthless crossover, diggins drained a jumper and immediately looked toward the irish bench, shaking 
see diggins PAGE 14 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish hit the road to face No. 7 Kentucky 
Bayliss hopes to rebound from last year’s close loss to Wildcats 

By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
exactly one year ago, notre dame played in possibly its most exciting match of the 2012 spring season, losing a 4-3 thriller to then-no. 6 Kentucky at the eck pavilion. 
This year, the no. 29 irish (5-3) will attempt to finish on the winning side ,against an­other top-10 wildcats squad, but will have to do so in lexington, Ky. 
“we played one of our best matches last year against Kentucky in a 4-3 loss,” irish coach bobby bayliss said. “hopefully we’ll be able to find that same level.” 
To take down no. 7 Kentucky (6-1), notre dame will need to compete with the strong top half of Kentucky’s singles lineup, which in­cludes two top-100 singles players. 
“[Kentucky] has a pretty ag­gressive team,” bayliss said. “They’re very good at the top half of their lineup. They’ve got some new players in the bottom half with whom i’m not as familiar, but those top three guys bring a lot of fire­power and they’ll play very aggressively.” 
while the irish must match the wildcats at the top half of the singles lineup, the last three singles slots will also be critical to notre dame’s suc­cess. irish junior billy pecor and sophomore wyatt mccoy occupy the no. 4 and 5 spots, respectively, and have been inconsistent so far this spring season, bayliss said. 
“we’ve been up and down this year at no. 4 and 5,” bayliss said. “each of those guys, billy and wyatt, has played extremely well at times and has had a bad match or two. i really don’t know how they’ll match up with who they are going to play.” 
This week stands as one of the toughest stretches in notre dame’s spring sched­ule, as the irish will play three matches in eight days. however, bayliss said the grind is something that goes hand in hand with college tennis. 
“it kind of goes with the territory [of playing college tennis],” bayliss said. “some of them have been through it and they understand it. but one of the things that we have to remember is we can’t schedule longer practices and we have to get right to the point and work on the things we need to achieve and maybe 
see Tennis PAGE 14 ndsmcobserVer.com | Tuesday, february 12, 2013 | The obserVer 



Leaders praise Pope’s impact on Church 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
editor-in-chief 
for the first time in nearly 600 years, the pope will step down from the head of the catholic church. 
pope benedict XVI, leader in the Vatican since april 2005, announced he would step down at the end of february in a statement to the college of cardinals on monday. he delivered the announcement in latin to a small gathering of cardinals at the Vatican on monday morning. 
“after having repeatedly ex­amined my conscience before god, I have come to the cer­tainty that my strengths, due to an advanced age, are no longer suited to an adequate exercise of the petrine ministry,” pope benedict said. “In order to gov­ern the barque of saint peter and proclaim the gospel, both strength of mind and body are necessary, strength which in the last few months, has deteri­orated in me to the extent that I have had to recognize my inca­pacity to adequately fulfill the ministry entrusted to me. for this reason, and well aware of the seriousness of this act, with full freedom I declare that I re­nounce the ministry of bishop of rome, successor of saint peter.” 
pope benedict’s resignation will take effect at 8 p.m. central european Time on feb. 28, at which point the college of cardinals will assemble in con­clave to begin selecting the next pontiff. 
university president fr. John Jenkins released a statement monday expressing deep grati­tude for the pope’s leadership. 
“as surprising as today’s an­nouncement is, it is apparent that pope benedict has made a decision that is motivated by his deep love for the church,” father Jenkins said. “he has been a dedicated pastor to catholics worldwide for the past eight years — and even be­fore as a cardinal, bishop and priest. as a former university professor, he is a serious intel­lectual with an understanding of education and appreciation for the life of the mind, and that has been important to all of us in catholic higher education. as the college of cardinals considers a successor to pope benedict, I pray god will guide their deliberations.” 
Jenkins met the pope on feb. 1, 2006, following a general au­dience in the Vatican’s paul VI auditorium, the release stated. at the time, pope benedict called notre dame “a great catholic university.” 
nearly 50 notre dame Trustees, officers and their spouses were present at the pa­pal audience, according to the release. 


Jenkins also attended an address by the pope in april 2008, when benedict addressed more than 300 catholic edu­cation leaders at the catholic university of america in washington d.c. The release recalled Jenkins’ statements from that visit. 
“It was a warm and gracious address that emphasized the value of catholic education,” Jenkins said at the time. “It was a very positive experience. There was an expression of gratitude and appreciation for everyone in the room involved in catholic education. he spoke of education as being central to the life of the church, and, of course, that is what notre dame is all about. It was a great affir­mation of our central mission.” 
In  the  1960s,  university  
president  emeritus  fr.  
Theodore  hesburgh  offered  

a faculty position to then fr. Joseph ratzinger, who was a german theologian before his election to the papacy, the re­lease stated. 
“I was searching around the world for an up-and-coming theologian,” hesburgh said in an interview with the south bend Tribune soon after cardinal ratzinger was elected pope. he wrote a letter of invi­tation to the young cleric, invit­ing him to join the faculty for a year or permanently, the re­lease stated. 
“he wrote back, ‘I’d love to come, but I don’t think my english is good enough yet,’” hesburgh said. 
university president fr. edward “monk” malloy said he did not know benedict well, but he wished the departing pontiff well nonetheless. 
“he was generous in his ser­vice of the church as pope and before,” malloy said. “I wish him well in his transition time. my hope and prayer is that the cardinals will survey well the needs of the world­wide catholic church and, in light of that, choose a worthy successor.” 

bishop Kevin rhoades, of the diocese of fort wayne-south bend, fondly recalled meeting pope benedict and expressed his prayers for the future of the church in his statement. 
“It was just one year ago, on february 9, 2012, that bishop d’arcy, I, and the other bishops of Indiana met with pope benedict during our ad limina visit to rome,” he said. “I recall with joy and gratitude that meeting and the warmth and kindness of our holy father. his words to us were words of brotherly love. I was moved by the pope’s evi­dent wisdom and holiness. 
“I invite all the faithful also to pray for the cardinals as they prepare in the coming weeks to meet in conclave for the elec­tion of a new successor to the apostle peter.” 
cardinal francis george, archbishop of chicago and one of 11 american cardinals who will help elect the next pope, expressed his gratitude for the way pope benedict led the church. 
“pope benedict XVI has, in all circumstances, placed the will of god for the good of the church before every other consideration. That same reso­luteness of purpose speaks in his statement announcing his resignation from the chair of peter,” george said. “he has now shown great courage in deciding, after prayer and soul-searching, to resign his office at the end of this month. 
“with the gratitude of sons and daughters in our hearts, we ask the lord to bless him and give him strength, as we begin to pray now for the one who will succeed him as bishop of rome, successor of peter and Vicar of christ.” 
Managing Editor Megan Doyle contributed to this report. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
students respond to resignation 
By JILLIAN BARWICK and NICOLE MICHELS 
saint mary’s editor and news writer 
Though pope benedict XVI’s monday resignation heralded changes in the roman catholic church, notre dame and saint mary’s students retained faith in its leader. pope benedict will officially step down feb. 28 and the cardi­nals’ conclave will begin shortly afterwards. 
senior molly herber said her ini­tial surprise faded to respect as she read pope benedict’s rationale be­hind his decision. 
“It seems that this is the right time in his life to make this decision, and if he feels he can’t handle the responsi­bilities of the role — which I imagine must be thousands and all of them exhausting — then I fully respect his decision to do what he feels is best for himself and for the community,” herber said. 
catalina Zalduendo, a saint mary’s sophomore currently study­ing in rome, woke up to the news before most students on the notre dame and saint mary’s campuses were even awake. 
“my first thought was ‘I’m going to be in rome during the election of a new pope … I am the most fortunate person in the world,’” Zalduendo said.  “I am still in shock that this is happening while I’m studying here and that I will be able to person­ally witness an event that will go do down in history forever.” 
Junior John mcKissick said he ex­pects this decision to set a precedent suggesting future popes should seri­ously assess whether or not they are able to complete the duties of the office. 
“It’s a decision that was off limits for a lot of popes,” mcKissick said. “Just think about pope John paul II 
— he wasn’t looking too good in the year before he was about to pass, and during that time the church espe­cially could have used some leader­ship because that’s when the child abuse scandals were first coming out.” 
nikki charter, a saint mary’s sophomore currently studying abroad in rome, said she believes the pope stepping down is a brave decision. 
“we have known that his health has been deteriorating and I hope he can find comfort in the decision. The cultural and political climate is buzz­ing in rome. This was a complete surprise to everyone,” charter said. “we were talking to a few deacons and they said no one expected this.” 
senior peter flores said he will be sad to see pope benedict leave his position. 
“I am sad when I think of los­ing pope benedict as the leader of the catholic church so far as I have grown to love him as my father,” flores said. “It’s been really been a special thing as I learn more about his life and his works as Joseph ratzinger and then as I know him now as the pope and holy father.” 
mileva brunson, a saint mary’s junior who studied abroad in rome last spring, said attending multiple services at the Vatican with pope benedict — including palm sunday 
— amazed her. 
“The energy of the audience was one of reverence and excitement to be in the presence of pope benedict,” brunson said. “and even in his old age, he seemed to get such joy from being surrounded by the hundreds of thousands of people to join in the celebration of palm sunday with him.” 
Junior louann lopez said she had been unaware that popes could re­sign from office. 
“I suppose it’s something I had always considered to be a lifetime commitment,” lopez said. “I still remember when benedict was ordained, it’s odd to think we are already going to experience that process all over again such a short period of time later.” 
flores said he hopes the new pope will continue in the vein of previous popes. 
“I think with the guidance of the holy spirit we can be assured of that, but I would hope that whoever is elected pope will carry on in the spirit of the new evangelization and continue the work that pope John paul and pope benedict started,” flores said. 
senior gilly stoy said he will look for the cardinals to choose pope benedict’s successor with the future of the church in mind. 
“The gates have opened and the politicking has begun,” stoy said. “I’d love to see a man who is a bit more jovial, a bit more young, who could be more energetic and energizing for the catholic youth, especially.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu and Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 



The obserVer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserVer.com 

Students abroad in Rome react to historic moment 
professor credits pope’s decision 

By SAM STRYKER 
assistant managing editor 
pope benedict XVI’s announce­ment monday that he will resign at the end of the month sent shock-waves around the world. but for some notre dame students study­ing in rome this semester, the news hit especially close to their home away from the dome. 
Juniors Kelsie corriston and eliza nagle are studying at John cabot university in rome with 25 other notre dame students this semester, just a 15-minute walk away from the Vatican. 
corriston said she was in her apartment and learned of the pope’s resignation on the Internet around noon local time. she said notre dame students were “in­credulous” upon hearing the news. 
“we were all really surprised, I would say,” she said. “we didn’t really know what it meant or why he was resigning. It seemed kind of out of the blue.” 
nagle said while the city seems “excited” at the news, she hasn’t been able to discuss the pope’s de­cision outside of discussions with fellow notre dame students. 
“It hasn’t really come up in con­versation outside of notre dame students,” she said. “It’s only been half a day, so I’m sure within the next couple of weeks people will be talking more and more about it. I’m sure it will get super busy in rome with media.” 
nagle said while the first reac­tion to many such major news stories is skepticism, she sees benedict XVI’s move as one of strength. 
“have a little faith in the church. The pope before anything else is a servant leader,” she said. “he’s only here to do the work of god and lead the church to the best of his abil­ity. If he finds that he can no longer do that in some way, than perhaps it’s better for the church if another person takes over.” 
corriston also said she thinks benedict XVI’s decision displays his strength of character. 
“It shows his humility too, the fact that it’s such a big change,” she said. “The fact that he’s putting the office above himself, recognizing that he’s served how he could and the church needs to keep growing in a healthy way.” 
david younger, assistant direc­tor in the office of International studies, said notre dame students in rome can now expect to experi­ence the city bustling with visitors. 
“as the [papal conclave] draws closer, the students can expect rome to be more crowded with people of every stripe: from jour­nalists and pilgrims to protes­tors and those simply wanting to watch an historic event take place,” he said. 
with the influx of media, younger said students may have the opportunity to become a part of the story itself. 
“I expect that international news agencies such as cnn and foX are likely to have correspon­dents there and will be interview­ing people in st. peter’s square, especially as events draw closer,” he said. “[notre dame] students may be interviewed by these news correspondents.” 
nagle said she is especially excited to experience the papal conclave, which is expected to convene sometime in march. she and corriston are already mak­ing plans to camp out in st. peter’s square to witness the election of a new pope in person. 
“as soon as I hear more details about when it’s supposed to be and how long it’s supposed to last, being a theology major, I definitely plan on camping out,” she said. “I really think I’m going to buy a sleeping bag and just go for it. 

“It’s a once-in-a-lifetime oppor­tunity to be living in rome when this is happening.” 
corriston said she has trips to Istanbul and prague scheduled around the time the papal con­clave might occur, but anticipates making an effort to be in the city for the event. 
“I would be willing to change travel plans to be here,” she said. “It’s just such a historic moment. we’re just sort of waiting and ex­cited to hear.” 
corriston said notre dame students are also already antici­pating easter weekend, when fel­low domers studying in europe will converge upon rome. easter sunday falls on march 31 this year. 
“It’s exciting that it will be the first major service for the new pope,” she said. “It’s cool that it’s happening during the lenten sea­son. It’s like a refreshing, a rebirth of the church.” 
nagle said students also might stop by the Vatican today to check out the atmosphere and also at­tend a papal mass or audience in the coming weeks before benedict XVI leaves his office. 
“I’ve always admired him as a theologian,” she said. “I think he’s done a great job leading the church.” 
nagle said the unique circum­stance of the pope resigning — the last time a pope resigned from office was nearly 600 years ago 
— allows for a celebration of his achievements in the church while he is still alive. 
“I think this is a special time for the church … to thank the pope for the things he has done for the church and celebrate it,” she said. “It’s kind of interesting — when a new pope comes into office, we’re also celebrating another pope’s death. This is kind of exciting be­cause we get hold on to [benedict XVI]. 
“we’re not mourning, we’re celebrating.” 
younger said he believes the coming weeks will prove to be an “exciting time” for those notre dame students studying in rome. 
“I can only imagine the excite­ment that students would feel and experience being there when a new pope is elected and watching for black or white smoke during the elections,” he said. “It is truly a wonderful time to be a part of the rome program.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
Joseph Incandela, associate dean of faculty and the hank aquinas chair in catholic theology, said he shared many catholics’ surprise at the pope’s resignation announce­ment but that in some ways, it was not completely unexpected. 
“I think everyone was sur­prised, even people that earn their living as Vatican watchers, and who wouldn’t be because some­thing like this doesn’t happen,” Incandela said. “after the initial reaction, there are some traces where this was forecast, making it less surprising. [pope benedict 
XVI] talked about this in a 2010 book that he wrote, not so much in relation to himself, but he sort of flowed into the possibility about a pope retiring if there were physi­cal incapacities or something along those lines.” 
Incandela added that for people who have been watching the pope closely, he seems to have slowed down within the past year or so. 
“I looked around online about [the resignation] and when pope John paul II died, he was 84, so he was actually younger than benedict XVI is now,” Incandela said. “now clearly he is in better health than John paul II was at this age, but I wonder if the move for benedict XVI from 84 to 85 was coupled with what he saw of John paul II at the end, which was a long, slow decline that was obviously im­mensely painful, not just for John paul II but for the church as well.” 
Incandela gave pope benedict XVI credit for his resignation while his health is in decline. 
“he is resigning because he thinks it is in the best interest of the church,” he said. “when you think that 85 is not that old anymore be­cause of medical advances, you could think of someone living in years and years of really debilitated, potentially incapacitated, health.” 
as for what will occur during the waiting period between now and when the pope steps down and a new pope is elected, Incandela said the church will be at somewhat of a standstill. 
“nothing happens when the or­ganizational structure has no one at the top,” he said. “when you see all of the pieces it does make sense, I think.” 
since a papal resignation has not occurred in centuries, Incandela stressed how different this proce­dure will be from the more recent papal elections. 
“This is completely new ground for anyone that is alive today. what usually happens is that a pope dies and the cardinals go to rome for the funeral. This makes the in be­tween period after the death and before the election relatively short,” Incandela said. “The cardinals go to rome for the funeral and then remain until the new pope is elect­ed. It is fairly compressed. usually when a pope is near death, people are not talking about the next con­clave, it’s just unseemly. 
“here’s a very different situation where someone is not dying on the last day of office, but saying that february 28 is the final day and 8 
p.m. is the final hour. It is more rea­sonable that the machinery could get going now without insulting anyone’s memory.” 
while this may be a new situa­tion for anyone alive today, there is a sentence in the code of canon law which states that a pope must resign his office freely. 
“They want to avoid any sense of coercion into retirement for a pope. so that’s why in his statement he really went out of his way to make sure that came across,” Incandela said. “That was the only thing he had to say. beyond that, there’s no sense of what a pope does to retire.” 
while there will be no new pope until the conclave concludes, the dean of the college of cardinals is technically the first among equals during this time, Incandela said. 
“The dean of the college of cardinals is basically the person that runs the show between now and the election of the new pope. In 2005, that person was Joseph ratzinger, which is kind of an odd coincidence of him being elect­ed after holding that position,” Incandela said. “Technically the dean is the first among equals, but the church can’t do anything now without a pope. It’s just really a matter of running the day-to-day bureaucracy of the place.” 
as for what benedict will do once he has left office, Incandela can only speculate. 
“I’ve read in a few places that he is going into a cloistered monas­tery within the Vatican to live with nuns. but wherever he ends up, I expect he will keep an extreme­ly low profile,” Incandela said. “benedict XVI has always been a scholar, writing several books dur­ing his papacy, so I imagine he will remain a scholar after he leaves of­fice. but then again, who knows.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

THE LIFE OF POPE BENEDICT XVI 
APRIL 16, 1927 1962-65 2002 JULY 18, 2008 
Joseph ratzinger is born in marktl Inn, participates in all four sessions of the sec-elected dean of the college of cardinals. apologizes to victims of child sexual abuse bavaria. ond Vatican council as theological adviser during world youth day in australia 
APRIL 19, 2005 
1951 1977 elected the 265th pope, choose name FEBRUARY 11, 2013 ordained into the priesthood by cardinal named archbishop of munich and benedict XVI announces he will step down from the faulhaber of munich freising; named cardinal of munich by papacy on february 28 
pope paul VI 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 





