The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 23 | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Professors react to Pope’s remarks 
Theologians say Pope Francis’ comments on social issues signal a perspective change in the Church 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
pope Francis made headlines worldwide when a lengthy inter­view with italian Jesuit journal “la civiltà cattolica” published last Thursday suggested his lead­ership would alter the catholic church’s focus on social issues. notre dame theology experts said it is clear that Francis’ state­ments provide a potential per­spective change but not a radical upending of church teaching. 
pope Francis’s words on abor­tion, same-sex marriage and con­traception generated controversy. 
“it is not necessary to talk about these issues all the time,” pope Francis said in the interview. “The dogmatic and moral teachings of the church are not all equivalent. The church’s pastoral minis­try cannot be obsessed with the transmission of a disjointed mul­titude of doctrines to be imposed insistently.” 
Theology professor Fr. brian daley, a member of the Jesuit or­der like pope Francis, said he does not find Francis’ ideas revolution­ary but rather just a demonstra­tion of different style and points of emphasis. 
“as [pope Francis] has said, what he’s saying has been there in the catechism, it’s been there in the teaching of the church, but people perhaps haven’t realized it,” daley said. “part of it is the way the media picks it up and spins it. but i do think the style of the pope is distinct, and it’s very much his own. and to a great extent, i think it comes out of his Jesuit spiritual background and the Jesuit way of approaching pastoral issues.” 
see Francis PAGE 5 

TORI ROECK | The Observer 
Pope Francis embraces a boy with cerebral palsy after Easter Mass at the Vatican on March 31. Many Notre Dame students studying abroad attended the Mass through a pilgrimage sponsored by Campus Ministry. 


humor artists maintain success 
By KYLE WITZIGMAN 
news writer 
The notre dame humor artists see funny business as no laughing matter. 
senior co-presidents alec vanthournout and stephen elser are gearing up for an up­coming show at legends on oct. 3 and one in washington hall on oct. 11, and elser said their experience alleviates their stage fright. 
“our flexibility of improv helps,” elser said. “we can do so many shows because it’s a lot of fun for us and it seems like the audience enjoys it.” 
elser said he and vanthournout are working on recruiting more members for the 30-person group. 
“There is a six-week training 
see humor PAGE 5 



Fair showcases full-time volunteer programs 

By THOMAS HUGHES 
news writer 

The postgraduate service Fair, sponsored by the center for social concerns (csc), took the first steps toward achieving the university’s mission state­ment of “sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression” wednesday evening in the Joyce center, showcasing service organi­zations where seniors can work next year. 
according to the csc website, the service fair in­cluded booths representing the alliance for catholic education, the peace corps, dominican volunteers and Jesuit volunteer corps, among others. some of or­ganizations represented operate in south bend, and send volunteers as far away as south africa or china, according to the csc website. 

davis sandefur, a senior 
see service PAGE 5 


student runs race for charity 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
saint mary’s junior maddie helman isn’t celebrating her 21st birthday like most young women. helman will be run­ning the walt disney world marathon on Jan. 12 to raise money for girls on the run, a non-profit organization that provides guidance through running to young girls ages third through fifth grade. 
in addition to the marathon falling on her 21st birthday, helman said this year’s mara­thon marks the 20th anniversa­ry of her mom’s first marathon at disney. 
Jamie helman said she ran her first marathon at disney two days before her daughter’s first birthday. as a baby, maddie 
see maraThon PAGE 3 


news PAGE 2 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 FooTball PAGE 16 women’s soccer PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                       peter woo Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

If your life were a shape, what shape would it be? 

Clare Donohue 


Bridget Mooney 
sophomore 

sophomore 
ryan hall 

badin hall 
“star.” 

“icosahedron.” 
Ray Zhao 


Cristin Pacifico 
sophomore 

Junior 
duncan hall 

badin hall 
“oval.” 

“a circle (of life).” 
Mike Samide 


Arthur Laciak 
Junior 

Junior 
duncan hall 

sorin hall 
“square. i’m boring.” 

“Triangle.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Tori roeck greg hadley Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
lesley stevenson meri Kelly henry gens conor Kelly 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
emily danaher Kevin noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

Annual Blue Mass Lecture: The Story Lecture: “Dante and Fall Exhibition Public Lecture: Civil 
Karla moreno caroline lang 
Basilica of the Sacred Behind “Touchdown the Birth of Modern Reception Rights Legacy of Fr. Heart Jesus” Literature” Snite Museum of Art Hesburgh 
5:15p.m.-6:15 p.m. Hesburgh Library Snite Museum of Art 2 p.m.-4 p.m. Washington Hall-Main 
Corrections 

Honoring police and 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 12 p.m.-1 p.m. Free gallery viewing. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as firefighters. About artist Millard Sheets. Saturday Scholar Series. Prof. J.M. McAward. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Lecture: “The Practice Men’s Soccer Presentation: Family Film: “The Cat Lecture: Berges 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
of Human Dignity” Alumni Stadium “Inflammation and Returns” Business Ethics 
however, recognize that we will make 
Geddes Hall 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Cancer” DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo 141 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30p.m.-9 p.m. Free admission to Jordan Hall of Science Arts Center 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Speaker Professor staff and students 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 3 p.m.- 4:15 p.m. John Donovan, VP at 
we can correct our error. 

Clemens Sedmak. with  I.D. card. Science Exploration Series. Screening in English. AT&T. 


SENATE 

Group addresses prayer service, diversity concerns 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 
at wednesday night’s sen­ate meeting, student body vice president nancy Joyce addressed the service sunday night held to pray for the most recent on-campus victim of sexual assault. 
she said the prayer service was part of an ongoing re­sponse to any possible future sexual assaults. 
“I want to challenge you guys today as student leaders to really sit here and talk openly and honestly.” 
Carolina Ramirez 
student government liason 
Diversity Council 
“i wanted to stress that this was not a spontaneous event,” Joyce said. “it has been part of an ongoing conversation in the senate and student government.” 
meanwhile, student body president alex coccia opened the meeting by asking the sen­ators to bring back “cab cards” to their dorms, which have the phone numbers for south bend taxi services. 
as its first order of business, senate unanimously voted to pass a resolution that changed the wording of several student union board position titles to reflect consistency within the group. 
as its second order of business for the meeting, the senate hosted carolina ramirez, a junior serving as student government liaison to diversity council, who led the group in a diversity workshop, an activity required by the group’s constitution. 

“i want to challenge you guys today as student leaders to really sit here and talk open­ly and honestly,” ramirez said. 
as part of the workshop, ramirez screened a video, which was shown to rectors, assistant rectors and resident assistants during their train­ing this summer. The video comes from “a call to action,” a diversity forum that took place as a result of an act of racially-motivated vandalism Feb. 2012. 
The video showed students speaking about their own ex­periences with racial preju­dice within the notre dame community. 
when the video was over, ramirez asked senate to break up into small groups to discuss their reactions. 
after finishing small group discussion, ramirez asked the senators to share their thoughts. The resulting dis­cussion focused largely on how to address inappropriate behavior. 
“i challenge you all,” ramirez said, “to continue this conversation. Take it back to your dorms and to your friends — that’s how we can move forward.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

saint mary’s student launches poetry club 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
sophomore claire bleecker had an idea to create the first saint mary’s poetry club this year because she wanted to dis­cuss new and different poetry with her fellow students. 
now, her idea is starting to catch on. 
“There wasn’t a poetry out­let at all at saint mary’s … i’m sort of ignorant when it comes to poetry and i wanted to learn more about it and the club is forcing me to learn more about it,” bleecker said. 
bleecker said the club meets at dalloway’s clubhouse on sundays at 6 p.m. she said she sends out a weekly theme via email before every meeting. 
“This week’s theme will be irish poetry, last week it was imagery poetry and the first week was pick your favorite poet,” she said. 
bleecker said she starts the meetings by introducing the theme and why it is relevant to the group. one by one, each member reads a short sum­mary of her chosen poet’s life and then reads a selected piece. 
Marathon 
conTinued From page 1 
helman was hospitalized at riley children’s hospital in indianapolis three weeks be­fore the marathon, and Jamie helman said she shifted her focus from training to her daughter. Fortunately, Jamie helman said her daughter recovered fully before the race. 
“it was a great accom­plishment for us both, and i know running this marathon together on her 21st birth­day, in 2014, will be an even greater cause for celebra­tion,” Jamie helman said. 
maddie and Jamie helman have partnered with the michiana council of girls on the run through a program called solemates, which teaches health and nutrition to the girls and trains them for a 5K race over the course of 12 weeks. according to the girls on the run website. 
solemates raises money by encouraging runners to get sponsors, according to the girls on the run website. maddie helman said her goal is to raise $2,100 in honor of her 21st birthday, and Jamie helman said her goal is to raise $2,000 in honor of the 20th anniversary of first run­ning the disney marathon. 
maddie and Jamie helman’s impact on the or­ganization goes beyond just fundraising. Jamie helman said she serves as the co-chair for development for club members discuss the meaning of the poem after­ward and then the next person reads until everyone has read, she said. 
“it’s very intimate,” bleecker said. “i think it’s easier to un­derstand the poetry when the group reads it together.” 
“I’m going to be introduced to all these new things. I’m excited that other people are excited about poetry because I didn’t think they were going to be.” 
Claire Bleecker 
founder 
Saint Mary’s Poetry Club 
bleecker said she has big plans for this year’s meetings, including a william butler yeats night. saint mary’s pro­fessor sr. rosalind clark will be a guest speaker that night to help the group discuss some of yeats’s famous poems, bleecker said. 
“i am also planning on hav­ing a poetry of the world night where i will bring in people to read from different countries to read poetry in their native lan­guage so that the night will be about listening to the sounds and rhythms, even if you don’t understand it, of the native lan­guage,” she said. 
bleecker said one member in particular was excited to join the club because she had been introduced to authors such as emily dickinson and John Keats at her school, but now she has much more access to poet­ry that she would not have had in her home country. 
bleecker also said the mem­ber was eager to learn about new poetry and the other mem­ber’s favorite poems. 
“and i felt the same way,” she said. “i’m going to be intro­duced to all these new things. i’m excited that other people are excited about poetry be­cause i didn’t think they were going to be. i’m excited that other people are excited.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 


girls on the run, and maddie helman said she is a coach. 
as a coach, maddie helman said she understands the di­rect impact her fundraising will have on the girls. when her team finished the 5K last spring, she knew what she was doing something mean­ingful, she said. 
“you could see the sense of accomplishment on their faces,” she said. 
maddie helman said run­ning is a prominent part of her life and her inspiration comes from her favorite run­ning partner: her mom. 
“my mom inspires me to dig deep and keep going even when it’s not fun,” maddie helman said. 
maddie helman said she started running in seventh grade and didn’t enjoy it at all, but she grew to love it and ran her first half mara­thon in eighth grade. 
“it’s about mind over mat­ter; it’s about never giving up,” she said. 
maddie helman said her love for running has only grown since, culminating in running her first marathon in chicago in 2011. 
“i can’t go for a run and not say thank you,” she said. “it automatically makes the day better.” 
For more information on maddie helman’s training and fundraising, visit her blog at http://twentyseven­thmile.wordpress.com/. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Humor 
conTinued From page 1 
program. each week, meghan brown, rectress of lyons [hall], runs a focus program on some particular aspect of humor,” elser said. “[The students audi­tioning] then will present a show and people are invited back.” 
vanthournout said the group doesn’t have much time to pre­pare for most of its shows. 
“legends shows are known in advance, but we do a lot of shows on short notice,” he said. 
vanthournout said the group performs four times per semes­ter at legends, which are the biggest in terms of campus au­dience.  They also do shows in dorms, before football games, in the library, in front of the Fisher roof sit and with hannah and Friends, an organization that works to improve the quality of life for children and adults with special needs, he said. 
For two years now, vanthournout said, 480 seats out of 500 in washington hall were filled for their shows there. 
“we like to check out the ven­ue, attendance and how many games we can play, and then see how many people can be in the games based on the chemistry in the group,” elser said. 
at one of the group’s washington hall shows, elser said the humor artists per­formed with the a cappella group halftime. 
“The crowd has an immense energy.  being there and hav­ing a show that goes as well as it does is exciting,” he said. “we wrote a script and learned lines. having everything come to­gether and the audience loving it feels really rewarding.” 
elser said his responsibilities as co-president include meet­ings with the student activities office and other officers, on top of eight hours of straight improv per week, but the role isn’t nec­essarily work for him. 
“it’s a great time to relax and just laugh,” he said. 
vanthournout said he enjoys the group’s practices. 
“i never think, ‘oh dang! i have to go to improv practice,’” he said. “it’s a lot of fun and i look forward to it every week.” 
The humor artists earned the distinction club of the year last year because of its hard work, but elser said the group only re­ceived a certificate for the honor. 
“we didn’t even get the con­cession stand [humor artists] was promised,” vanthournout said. 
elser said the group is still proud of the award. 
“we remind our audiences of it constantly,” he said. 
vanthournout said the group is branching out beyond live improv by making digital shorts on youTube under the account “humorartistsofnd.” elser said the group also manages a Facebook page and a Twitter 


account  under  the  handle  
@ha_nd.  
even  though  students  can  

watch humor artists’ skits on-line, elser said he still recom­mends they attend the group’s shows. 
“if you like laughter, and gen­eral merriment, come to humor artists’ shows, because that’s what we provide,” he said. 
“i’ve never talked to anyone who said that they hated the show,” he said. “how could they? we’re the club of the year.” 
Contact Kyle Wtizigman at kwitzigm@nd.edu 
Francis 
conTinued From page 1 
daley said the Jesuit tradition has been to be at the service of the church, training the mem­bers of the order intellectually “in the highest standards of the day,” but also to be deeply rooted spiritually in prayer, contempla­tion and the gospels. 
“i think the basic instinct of the Jesuits and modern ignatian spirituality in general is a pasto­ral one,” daley said. “it’s a matter of asking what can we do to help people come into contact with christ and follow him. 
“and as Francis says, it’s not that the rules that the church presents us with are false or irrel­evant, but the church is not basi­cally there to announce rules. it’s there to pronounce god’s love to people.” 
John cavadini, theology professor and director of the institute for church life at notre dame, said he sees Francis’ statements as a continuation of pope emeritus benedict Xvi’s re­minder to focus on the essentials of catholicism. 
“what [pope Francis] has been saying is very much in keeping with pope benedict,” cavadini said. “i think people see there being this division be­tween them, but remember that pope benedict published his first papal encyclical on love, called ‘god is love.’ i don’t think you can get more essential than that.” 
benedict’s next two encyclicals were on hope and faith, respec­tively, and cavadini said Francis’ statement last week highlights the same focus on these essen­tials in a different way. 

“pope Francis has a very dis­tinctive pastoral application of this emphasis on the essentials,” cavadini said. “what he’s basi­cally saying is that you don’t at­tract people to the faith and you don’t keep people in the faith by concentrating all the time on 
“I think what 
he’s doing is a 
typically Jesuit 
approach, 
training himself 
as well as possible 
in human culture 
and human 
understanding.” 
Fr. Brian Daley 
professor 
theology 

things that aren’t part of the es­sential proclamation. 
“and so what you end up do­ing, maybe, is making people forget what the essentials are if you’re always talking about other things and you have what he called a kind of ‘fragmented message.’ i think there is a very fundamental continuity with pope benedict’s emphasis on the basics, but i think there is a dif­ference in style and a difference in pastoral application.” 
pope Francis said the church must find a new balance or else its moral edifice would be in danger of “[falling] like a house of cards.” 
cavadini said Francis is trying to steer the attention to the most essential parts of catholicism that make the faith vibrant to believers. 

“The whole point is to convey the beauty of the whole so the more difficult teachings don’t seem like just isolated invita­tions to desolations, but part of a larger piece and part of a church that cares about everybody,” cavadini said. “if the church shows itself to be a caring com­munion, then it’s easier for peo­ple because there’s something lifted in their lives all the sud­den if someone is willing to help them.” 
This “pastoral framework” for approaching people could trans­form the whole communion of the church without altering any of its moral teachings, he said. pope Francis’ new approach to these teachings partially stems from his different back­ground compared to that of pope benedict. 
“pope benedict was a profes­sor … and he became a bishop not out of a pastoral parish ex­perience as much as from a pro­fessorial experience,” cavadini said. “i don’t like people saying benedict is bad and Francis is good; i think that’s just very su­perficial because pope benedict was a very loving person, a very smart person, but a professor. 
“he focused on the essentials but spun it as saying ‘these are our foundations, and that keeps us from succumbing to cultur­al relativism.’ i think Francis, taking the same emphasis on the essentials, says ‘how do we translate this into a way of pas­toring or shepherding?’ i think Francis thinks that it translates into a pastoral care of warmth and presence … carries those essentials of the gospel with them.” 
daley said he sees pope Francis as “an intellectual but not an academic,” especially tak­ing into account his background in argentina and his apprecia­tion for world culture. 
“i think [Francis] operates on a fairly imaginative level,” daley said. “and benedict does too, but benedict is the shyer person; he’s kind of an introvert, i think. and he’s a first-class intellectual theologian … where Francis is much more of an extrovert, a charismatic personality. 
“i think what he’s doing is a typically Jesuit approach, train­ing himself as well as possible in human culture and human understanding … i think he’s re­ally someone who tries to think in contact with the present time, but the reason for this is always to do the work of god and bring the gospel to people.” 
cavadini said viewing these is­sues as part of the larger context of the essentials of faith makes it clear that the church’s mission goes beyond rule-making and finger-pointing. 
“These are pastoral issues before they’re political issues,” he said. “i think that makes a big difference to people’s lives. with this new approach, you cre­ate new possibilities with that warmth and presence and a will­ingness to bear people’s burdens with them.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Service 
conTinued From page 1 
studying physics and irish, said he attended the service Fair because he has volun­teered at his church during the summer in various roles. he said he was particularly interested in the christian appalachian project be­cause he is from Kentucky. 
”[service] really teaches you to be thankful for what you have … it reminds you how lucky you are to be in an opportunity to help others,” sandefur said. 
according to the csc web­site, about 10-percent of graduates commit to some sort of service project within a year after their graduation. 
michael hebbeler, direc­tor of student leadership and senior transitions at the csc, said the service fair is just one of many events the csc will host this year to in­spire more students to pur­sue postgraduate service, including many other visits from service organizations. 
hebbeler said the csc will run a discernment semi­nar with direct ties to the gospel. 
“[The seminar] challenges students to think critically about vocation and cultivate a way of living that responds to the gospel demands of right relationship … in short, the path of justice,” he said. 
Contact Thomas Hughes at thughes2@nd.edu 


“Asking for it”

INSIDE COLUMN 
beyond borders 
Wei Lin 
photographer 

This passing summer may have pos­sibly been the most eventful summer i’ve ever had. i was granted the oppor­tunity to study chinese in beijing with the duke study in china program. 
since my parents cannot commu­nicate in english with me, i speak to them in mandarin and my Fuzhounese dialect. i started in third year chinese last year and felt comfortable and con­fident enough to spend an entire sum­mer under the smoggy skies of beijing. at first, i wanted to go to beijing, study chinese, head back to new york and never go back again. 
This was not my first time in china, nor was it the second. it was the sixth. prior to my departure from new york, my perception of china included dirty streets, rude people and awkward bathrooms. it was only after i had or­dered food entirely in chinese, gotten a temporary phone card in chinese and used a squatting toilet did it oc­cur to me i was in china, the china with the streets, the people and the bathroom. 
however, this time i had much more to experience than just that; i had a whole two months to explore an entire city, to survey every nook and cranny, to eat at every renowned restaurant. This was my great adventure. i trav­eled a lot outside of my class time. my friends and i took weekend excursions to provinces hundreds of miles away. 
by the end of my two months in beijing, i learned so much about my heritage, and i was much closer to be­ing fluent in mandarin. i was blessed to have met so many great people, both within and outside the program. by the end of the summer, i was set on coming back to china; in fact, i ac­cepted that my career will most likely be closely tied with china. it was truly a contrast from my initial plan. 
if i could identify my time in china with one word, it would be “metamor­phosis.” i went through many hard­ships and changes, but the results were nothing but positive. (granted, i still have a slight cough from the air pollution.) 
i love my chinese heritage, and i love being a chinese major (along with my two other majors.) i enjoy sharing the awesome stories i have with friends. i love the thrill of going bungee jumping into a beautiful gorge. i miss relying solely on my chinese to get around. 
one of the items on the dean’s a-list is to learn a language. Just do it. enrich your time at notre dame by studying a language and using it abroad. enrich your life by mastering another lan­guage. it can open doors of opportuni­ties to learn, live and love life. 
Katrina Linden 
Kat’s meow 

“i don’t understand how non-violent rape even happens.” 
i have encountered a variety of opinions while at notre dame, the most interesting of which — like the one above — require a great deal of patience and tolerance. 
as a generally open-minded individual, validating most opinions is not too dif­ficult, but when a male student shared this gem, i had a hard time comprehending and digesting what exactly he meant. 
There is a difference between regretting a sexual encounter and being legitimately raped, i agree, as this is the point he was apparently attempting to make. however, i am afraid that somewhere in this boy’s life, somebody forgot to make sure he knew how to differentiate between the two. i wanted to be angry with him, i wanted to pour my drink all over his disillusioned head, slap him in disgust and walk away. but what would that have accomplished? rather, i think the more effective route would be to realize if one individual holds this view on rape, there must be a handful of others with the same opinion. 
non-violent rape is a thing. we all at­tended the campus safety course fresh­man year, so no need to relive it. but no one say, “why didn’t she run, fight back or yell?” without understanding that for some, it is impossible. with the dismissal of rape accusations, as well as the rise of numerous reports on our campus in the past year, i think he was just sucked into the “rape culture” that everybody keeps trying to make a social phenomenon in order to defend disgusting monsters and to validate naive opinions. 
it is not even this one comment that has set me off on this tangent. it is the acculturation of phrases like “forcible fondling” and “rape road” that devalues legitimate situations of fear on campus. i do not want to be walking home from a friend’s apartment at night and have to fear being attacked by a random creep in the bushes. i do not want to be running around the lake at dusk and have to check over my shoulder constantly to make sure that nobody is following me while i grip my hot pink pepper spray in one hand and keep my phone’s emergency call function one digit away from 911 in the other. i do not want to be at a dorm party and be un­able to trust a friendly male acquaintance. but society tells me, as a female, not to put myself in these types of situations, when realistically the latter is significantly more risky than the others. 
but why should we live in fear? why can we not instead tell our boys (and girls) not to rape, to treat females as humans, not as objects, and to respect a woman’s fashion choices, however risqué they may be? i realize it is a tiring argument we have all heard before, but something as serious as rape needs to be readdressed constantly until it is hammered into certain individu­als’ thick skulls. 
however, i am no saint, as i am just as guilty as the next closed-minded individ­ual in using the phrases throughout this article jokingly, ignoring the further im­plications of creating a mockery of serious rape accusations. after having written this piece i have realized what a desensitiz­ing effect the use of sexual assault related terms has had on myself, as i am sure it has had on many others. 
it has generally come to the point that when a female announces she has re­ceived undesired and unprovoked sexual advances and demands justice the male undergoes minor investigation, while the female is scrutinized thoroughly, questioned about her past relationships, encounters and every other insignificant event that led up to her rape. Though i cannot speak for policies in place at notre dame, i can speak for the greater female student body in stating that there seems to be an obvious social stigma against reporting rape and sexual assault due to the overwhelming catholic moral stand­ings of many students and the holier-than­thou mentality many students hold on their own. 
it would not surprise me to find that a woman may fail to report sexual assault on campus due to this simple fact. as it is her fault for being in the wrong place at the wrong time with the wrong people and she should probably be more careful next time. perhaps this is all an exaggeration, but mainstream media accepts rape as a sign of changing times by criminalizing rape victims and overusing the defense, “boys will be boys.” but, i digress. she is always just “asking for it.” 
To end on a positive note, i ap­plaud the recent actions of the student government for addressing the recent victims of sexual assault on notre dame’s campus with the sexual assault prayer service. it is events like these that bring our student body together in unity, hope­fully sparking an even greater discussion on an overwhelming and increasingly common occurrence. 
Katrina Linden is a sophomore English major with a Studio Art minor living in Lewis Hall. She can be reached at klinden1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“life is like eating an elephant. Take it one bite at a time.” Matthew Romano American humorist 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


From panic to Providence 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

it’s not often that i get discour­aged. i tend to think of myself as a pretty happy, upbeat guy. i enjoy life and the people in it. but monday was one of those days when it was hard to see the light. 
everything was okay on the out­side. it was a beautiful fall day, and i had just returned home to one of my favorite things in the entire world: food. The smell of homemade chili wafted through the house, buoyed by a breeze that carried not only the aroma of slowly cooked potatoes, beans, tomatoes and chilies but also the unmistakable crispness that made it clear fall was upon me. 
i almost couldn’t move. it was that much sensory overload. i could have started charging admission to see the niagara Falls gushing through my throat as my salivary glands promptly began production. 
composing myself, i practically glided towards dinner. but as i trav­eled towards our dining room, my giddiness was replaced by a deep heaviness and feelings of unre­solved questions that overwhelmed my mind and my heart. 
all of this caught me by surprise, especially after a great first month in indianapolis. i have had the op­portunity to work at a school and parish i love. i live in an intentional faith community that teaches me more about myself each and every day. and i get to do all of this while working on my masters degree in theology at nd. yet all of those good things could not hold the heavi­ness of the questions that weighed upon me. without prompting, like floodwaters busting through a dam, the questions came crashing down, one right after the other: “how will i juggle four different areas of re­sponsibility? how will i maintain the stamina to give myself to these parts of my life while still taking time for myself and those people who are closest to me? will i be able to do a good job with all of these obligations? how will i live up to people’s expectations of me?” 
as i looked deeper, however, my surprise turned to recognition and realization. i had encountered these types of feelings before. i realized that my feelings were only a surprise because i had grown out of touch with myself. That is to say, in all of the activity, meetings, dinners, studying and work i had allowed to consume my time in that first month, i had not given myself the space to examine how i was really doing or what i was really feeling. i had not taken the time to deal with the questions and thoughts that had been lying and lurking beneath the surface of my heart. 
one thing was clear, though: doubt and uncertainty, some old familiar friends of mine, were pay­ing me visits once again. but later that evening, i heard these words from saint mother Théodore guérin: “we are not called upon to do all the good possible, but only that which we can do ... you may have to wait longer than you would like, you may have to bear privations; but, bear and forebear. have confidence in the providence that, so far, has nev­er failed us. The way is not yet clear. grope along slowly. do not press matters; be patient, be trustful.” 
have confidence in the providence that so far has never failed us. 
it occurred to me that up to that point, i had placed “confidence” in one place only: myself. my busy schedule had become the measure of who i was and the good i was do­ing. on the outside, i was only dis­satisfied because i was not “doing” enough. but in reality, i realized i was unhappy because i was fear­ful of the reality i would encounter once i took the time to face those 
The fight is far from over 
and until the teacher proceeded Bianca Alamada with a same-sex marriage that the 
This is real life 

administration found the situation 
This past summer, my hometown high school became involved in a messy local scandal involving the termination of a long-time faculty member. more specifically, one of my favorite male teachers was fired on the account that he married his same-sex partner after the legaliza­tion of gay marriage in my home state of california on June 28. 
i attended an all-girls, private, catholic high school, not unlike many notre dame students. it is owned and organized by a group of lively benedictine nuns, and it is independent of any church diocese. This fact, along with the fact that the nuns themselves are consid­ered quite progressive, made the decision even more shocking to the student body, alumni, parents and community members alike. 
The school administration was aware of the teacher’s homosexual­ity for years. he did not discuss his personal life in class or within the school community. when i had the privilege of meeting his partner at a non-school-related event, he was introduced as his roommate. 
it was not until same-sex mar­riage was legalized in california problematic. even more problemat­ic to the administration, the teacher was featured in a local newspaper story covering the historic July 1 same-sex marriages in california, as the teacher was among the first same-sex couples in the county to marry. 
according to a public statement, the school administration said that the teacher was fired not for being homosexual, but for violat­ing his contract with the school. apparently, all of the teachers at the high school are required to sign ethics contracts, in which they pledge that they will not ex­hibit behaviors that are contrary to catholic teachings, which would portray a negative image of the school and set a bad example for its students. since the church is against same-sex marriage and not homosexuality itself, the teacher technically did not commit a viola­tion until he was married. school representatives also said that he was fired for making a “public spec­tacle” of his anti-catholic behavior, as he was featured in a news story for his historic act. 
The male teacher had been a member of the school faculty for 17 years. he was the english depart­ment chair, the award-winning dance team founder and coach, the yearbook moderator, the prom committee advisor and the honors english teacher. he had a true pas­sion for the school and for young women’s education, and he was beloved by his students. The school community displayed overwhelm­ing support for him when his mar­riage became public, and they demonstrated outrage at his dis­missal from the school. a petition with over 1,500 signatures was col­lected and a peace march was orga­nized in his honor, but the school ultimately stuck with its original decision. 
i loved my high school, and i had a wonderful experience as a student there. i still love my high school, but i do not by any means respect their decision with regards to this teacher. no one should lose his or her livelihood because of sexual orientation or because of personal lifestyle choices, especially if that person is exceptional at their job. no one should be forced to fear­fully hide his or her identity, es­pecially among catholics who are meant to be loving and accepting. unfortunately, the teacher could not successfully pursue legal action in the matter, as he did technically questions and vulnerabilities lin­gering deeper in my heart. 
but we never need to face these questions alone. i had forgotten god’s providence and thus forgotten this truth. i had simply not made the time to acknowledge that it was god who could provide me with not only the strength to confront my questions, but also the strength to face and wrestle with the answers. 
in deuteronomy 31:6 we read: “be strong and courageous. do not fear or be in dread ... for it is the lord your god who goes with you. he will not leave you or forsake you.” The struggles and doubts of our lives will never go away. but neither will god. god will be always with us, giving us the strength and the grace to stand and face our difficult realities.  
we must be patient, though. we must be trusting. if we are, god will help us to live into those difficult moments, and we will become the people he called us to be. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
violate his contract. 
This is real life. we like to think that we live in a very progressive world — one in which racism, sex­ism, homophobia, etc. are things of the past. This country has made tremendous strides in all of these respects, but the fight for equal­ity is far from over. in this reality, “ethics contracts,” such as the one that the teachers at my alma mater are required to sign, are still legally allowed. gays in multiple states are not allowed to marry the people they love, and they are often the targets of hate speech, abuse and prejudice; and the gay community is only one example of a group suf­fering injustice. 
The real world is not always a wonderful place, but it is our re­sponsibility to help make it a better one. i signed the petition. i wrote a letter to the school. and now, i am sharing this teacher’s story. i stand with him, and i encourage everyone to stand for justice. 
Bianca Almada is a sophomore residing in Cavanaugh Hall. She is studying English, Spanish and Journalism. She can be contacted at balmada@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




Allie Tollaksen 
scene writer 

maybe it’s because i’m not terribly athletic, maybe it’s because i come off as a bit of a klutz or maybe it’s just my obsession with pizza. no matter what it is, i can assure you that no one would ever look at me and think, “That girl definitely likes to work out!” 
but guess what, everyone? i enjoy exercise most of the time. maybe i don’t do it enough (okay, i definitely don’t do it enough), but i have nothing against going for a run or hitting the gym, even upon learning in p.e. freshman year that free weights aren’t exactly my thing. 
so, now that it’s clear that i do not hate exercise, i will confess to you there is something about “get­ting swoll” that i do absolutely despise (besides the phrase “getting swoll”). no, it’s not the fact that everyone stares at themselves in the mirror all the time. it’s not even that extremely traumatic mo­ment when you’re running and your ear bud gets ripped out of your ear. it’s the music. i hate gym music. 
maybe this is just my experience, but music played at gyms always seems to be a blend of top 40 hits, bad house music and old Katy perry songs. also, i think it might be against the law in the state of indiana to teach a fitness class and not include at least one Ke$ha and two pitbull songs. 
i don’t know who is responsible for picking tracks at fitness centers or passing those specu­lated laws — my theory is that it’s all richard simmons — but i have given up hope in think­ing that i’ll ever hear something quality while exercising. 
sometimes i tell myself that these awful, aw­ful song choices are actually a good thing — bad music can fuel a hate-fire within and motivate you to do more. a bad song can inspire you to hate-run another mile, hate-lift another rep or hate-dance your heart out to that one really bad Zumba song you’ve never liked. another upside is that if a work­out is particularly excruciating, at least it won’t forever be associated with a great song. it’s never fun to force a tune into early retirement because you experience phantom muscle aches and pain­ful flashbacks every time it comes up on shuffle. 
still, occasionally, i just want to hear some songs i like while working out. because of this, like al­most everyone, i’ve taken the exercise playlist into my own hands. but as an avid fan of slow, weird alternative music, it’s not always easy to track down the right songs that will get you pumped for a workout. i learned, for example, that no matter how you try to get a good pace running to Fleet Foxes, it’s never going to happen. 
if you’re like me and need a little help finding something upbeat, the internet has come to our rescue. running music websites like jog.fm exem­plify the wonders of modern technology by giving its users the tools to customize any run, ride or workout playlist to fit any and all music needs. The site lists exclusively upbeat songs you can work out to and organizes tracks by beats per minute. 
This way, you make a playlist with a consistent tempo or even preset an overly ambitious mile time for your run that you’ll later regret!  best of all, you can filter by genre or look through pre­made playlists to discover the best workout music you’ve never heard. 
Take a look on the right to see my recommended gym playlist. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
WORKOUT PLAYLIST 



“Diane Young” 
Vampire Weekend 
“Ways to Go” 
Grouplove 
“Genesis” 
Grimes 

“Favorie Color (PUNCHES remix)” 
Tokyo Police Club 

“Yeah Yea (Flosstradamus remix)” 
Nick Carter 

“Broken Heartbeats Sound Like Breakbeats” 
Los Campesinos! 

“Dance Yrself Clean” 
LCD Soundsystem 
“Odessa” 
Caribou 

“Do the Astral Plane” 
Flying Lotus 

“The Crystal Cat” 
Dan Deacon 


By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 
before i get into the nitty-gritty of this review, i must personally say that i have been fanboying over “mechanical bull” since it was first announced back in June. even though Kings of leon’s previous release, “come around sundown” was dull at best, i have had extremely high hopes for this sixth studio al­bum. The band has had some rather emotional experiences over the past two years, and a mechanical bull seems to be a near perfect way to describe it. on a deeper level though, the title represents the group’s inten­tions to shake things up with this album and move forward with their sound. 
These intentions are made ob­vious with the leadoff track and the first single from the album, “supersoaker.” The song cap­tures the raw feral energy the band possessed in its first few records, while also emulating the smooth, refined choruses of “only by the night.” while “only by The night” did push Kings of leon into the international spotlight with the hits “use somebody” and the infamous “sex on Fire,” a good majority of the album lacked intensity and energy. with “mechanical bull,” Kings of leon has combined all of their best elements to produce a record with an eclectic mix of songs that not only have a fun energy about them, but also re­flect the band’s experience. 
part of the fun of listening to this album is the swing­ing, bluesy throwback sound that the Kings invoke in songs like “Family Tree” and “rock city,” which isn’t about los angeles, detroit, or new york, but the band’s hometown of nashville. Kings of leon really rock the southern sound, mix­ing the influence of bands like lynyrd skynyrd and the allman brothers band to give all their songs on this album an upbeat driving force. 
one of my personal favorites off this album is “Temple,” a rocking arena anthem that has a bouncy rhythm and fun gui­tar hooks. but even the slower stuff on “mechanical bull” is very solid and great to listen to. specifically, “Tonight” is a pas­sionate song which draws upon the darker sounds of “only by the night” but feels fresher and more polished. 
The best song from “mechanical bull” by far is the ambitious “comeback story,” which is a neat little reflection of the band’s shakeup since lead singer caleb Followill’s alcoholic breakdown in the middle of a show in 2011. The song makes good use of darker tones, a jam­ming guitar, and an echoing whistling chorus to create a ter­rific sound. it also gives rise to the clever couplet “i walk a mile in your shoes/ now i’m a mile away and i’ve got your shoes”. 
at this point, i’ve basically praised almost every song on the album. and honestly, this is an album that deserves the ac­claim. This is the most fun, en­ergetic, well-produced record the Kings have had since “aha shake heartbreak” way back in 2004. The band creatively blends two guitars to make some sick riffs to push their music forward into new territories. caleb’s vo­cal work is superb as usual, but it seems as the focus of the music has shifted from featuring his voice toward highlighting the overall harmony of the band, which is a great change and makes everything more special. simply put, this album is awe­some and is definitely worth a listen. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Mechanical Bull” 
Kings of Leon 
Label: Sony Music Tracks: “Tonight,” “Comeback Story,” “Rock City” If you like: Cage the Elephant!, Lynyrd Skynyrd 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


WEEkEnD EvEnTS CALEnDAR 
THURSDAY 

What: Project Fusion Where: DPAC When: 7 p.m. How Much: $10 

The saxophone quartet project Fusion, winner of the gold medal in the senior wind division this spring at the 2013 Fischoff national chamber music competition (which claims to be the largest chamber music competition in the world), comes to the leighton concert hall in the debartolo performing arts center on Thursday. 
FRIDAY 

What: Peter Bevacqua Where: DPAC When: 12:30 p.m. How Much: Free 
peter bevacqua, ceo of the professional golfers’ association of america, will deliver his lecture, “From hitchcock to Tiger woods: a notre dame Journey to ceo of the pga of america,” Friday in the browning cinema in the debartolo performing arts center. bevacqua graduated magna cum laude in english from notre dame in 1993. 
SATURDAY 

What: “Monster’s University” Where: DeBartolo 101 When: 10:30 p.m. How Much: $3 
sub’s movie of the week is “monster’s university,” pixar’s recent prequel to 2001’s “monsters, inc.” The story finds mike and sulley as they enter college and deal with challeng­es such as fraternities, classes and the human adult world. 
SUNDAY 

What: “Space Jam” Where: DeBartolo 101 When: 1 p.m. How Much: $3 
sub has a special edition movie of the week for just the one day — “space Jam.” The immortal film stars michael Jordan as michael Jordan and the looney Tunes as his basket­ball teammates as they battle aliens to keep from becoming theme park attractions. set your conspiracy theo­ries about Jordan being in this movie because david stern secretly banned him from the nba for a year because of his massive gambling aside for a moment and enjoy this classic piece of art. 

By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 
certain literary pieces were intended to be heard, not read. For many, the works of william shakespeare are nearly impos­sible to fully comprehend until brought to life on stage. 
similarly, the words of dante’s “divine comedy” deepen in meaning when read aloud to an audience. 
This is the idea behind the italian studies department’s “dante now!” event happening this Friday all around campus. “dante now!” features italian language students (and anyone else who wants to join) perform­ing pieces of dante’s “divine comedy” in italian from 2:00­
3:00pm. 
“From a linguistics point of view, it helps students get used to talking in the formal, stan­dard language that was based on dante,” said anne leone, italian studies research assistant professor and one of the organiz­ers of the event. 
The students have a chance to practice their language skills while indulging in one of the most important aspects of italian culture. 
dante is to the italians in some ways what shakespeare is to the british. 
Just as the british annually recreate the shakespeare plays, there is a group in Florence, italy, that publicly performs dante ev­ery year. 
it was these Florentines who inspired the project here at notre dame. 
“it has such a foundational place in italian culture. maybe it’s so much a part of their cul­ture that they don’t think about it,” leone said. 
performing the “divine comedy” builds a community within the italian studies de­partment, as they are able to bring to life something so inte­gral to the culture. 
“The dante now! program is important precisely because it brings the notre dame com­munity and the local and visit­ing communities together and in communion with each other, with dante, and the beauty of the italian language,” senior christian coppa said. 
performing dante in this way makes it into an artistic exhibi­tion that allows even inexperi­enced speakers to join in. 
“people can hear the musicali­ty of it even if they don’t know the language,” italian studies gradu­ate student Xiaoyi Zhang said. 
last year, the event cer­tainly caught the attention of spectators. 
“one guy saw us at the Knute rockne statue and said he’d nev­er seen anything like this before and joined in with us and start­ed following the group,” ph.d. student courtney smotherman said. 
The performances end when all nine performance groups meet at the grotto to say the prayer to the virgin from the end of dante’s “paradiso.” For leone, Zhang and coppa, this was the most memorable part of the event. 
“it was a powerful instance, for me, of what makes poetry, and dante’s poem in particu­lar, so special,” coppa said of the final recitation. “seeing how students alike not only relished in the beauty of the poetry, but in some cases prayed the poem, opened up new meaning for me personally.” 
bringing the performance to end in what is arguably one of the most important communal parts of notre dame’s campus reinforces the community as­pect of the event. 
according to leone, perform­ing the “divine comedy” as a group reflects the message of the story itself. 
The poem begins as dante’s individual crisis, where another person saves him. The poem is his attempt to save the souls of other people. 
similarly, in the reading aloud of dante, the story comes alive not only for the reader but the audience as well. 
“it makes you want to wikipedia dante,” Zhang said. 
The event closes with an il­lustrated lecture on dante’s “inferno” at the snite museum of art given by two notre dame professors and one visiting pro­fessor, which helps the students and audience members visualize the scenes they’ve been hearing. 
dante now! begins at 2:00 p.m at various locations around cam­pus. each performance takes about seven minutes and the performers will move locations every 20 minutes. 
many of the performers will be wearing red dante hats with golden laurels, so don’t be afraid to stop by and listen. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

ninth will never be the same 

Brian Hartnett 
sports writer 
To many yankees fans, a ninth-inning lead at home means a familiar routine. 
The opening strains of metallica’s “enter sandman” blare out of the yankees stadium loudspeakers as closer mariano rivera coolly jogs in from the bullpen to the pitching mound. 
when he reaches the mound, the results vary, but more often than not, the in­ning concludes with rivera baffling hitters with his cut fastball and earning another save. 
on sunday afternoon, yankees fans likely saw this routine for the last time, as rivera pitched one-and-two­thirds innings in the yankees’ 2-1 loss to san Francisco. 
rivera might get another chance to pitch at yankee stadium this season, but it’s more likely his next pitch at the house that george built will be in the next old-Timer’s day game. 
with the yankees five games out of the second wild card spot with only five games left to play, it seems rivera’s final game will be in the most unceremonious of places, houston, where his team faces the lowly astros this weekend. 
and just like that, the career of one of baseball’s greatest pitchers and most respected people will come to a close. 
i don’t intend to make this column a sappy tribute to rivera, a player i’ve had the privilege to watch since i first started following the yankees in the late 1990s. There has been so much fawning over no. 42 as part of his season-long retirement tour that even the most ardent rivera sup­porter — and certainly rivera himself — is embarrassed by all the attention. 
but at the same time, if rivera isn’t worthy of such a tribute, i’m not exactly sure what player is. 
simply put, rivera has de­fined the roles and respon­sibilities of a position that is now one of the most impor­tant in baseball. 
when rivera pitched his first major league game in 1995, the term “closer” was not widely used in sports lingo, and dennis eckersley had been appointed the first one-inning closer just a few seasons before (other fa­mous early closers like goose gossage and rollie Fingers had been used more in the role of short reliever). 
Fast forward to today — almost every team has a designated ninth-inning pitcher, and demand for such players is so high that most of them command salaries equal to those of reliable starting pitchers. 
over the past 19 years, rivera has been the primary figure in shaping these per­ceptions of closers, and he’s done it through consistent excellence. 
Just take a look at his num­bers. rivera has 652 career saves, the most in mlb histo­ry (Trevor hoffman is second with 601). he’s saved at least 25 games in 15 consecutive seasons and has recorded an era below 2.00 in 11 seasons. 
rivera seems to get even better in the postseason. he has a career postseason era of 0.70 and 42 saves in the playoffs. sure, some of his most notable failures, such as surrendering the world series-winning hit to luis gonzalez in 2001 and blowing two saves in the 2004 alcs, have come in october, but these failures pale in success to the number of close wins he has secured for the yankees. 
incredibly enough, rivera has based much of his success on his signature cut fastball, or cutter. The pitch, which he discovered accidentally dur­ing a bullpen session in 1997, runs inside on left-hand­ed hitters, causing enough broken bats that louisville slugger might want to send him a thank-you letter. 
despite the pressures of his unique role, rivera has been the epitome of calm dur­ing his career. he’s a player who doesn’t flinch when he gets hit, yet he also doesn’t choreograph a victory dance when he records a save, a lesson many modern closers could learn. 
Finally, rivera’s off-the­field accomplishments are al­most as numerous as the list of his career achievements. he’s donated millions of dol­lars to his native panama through his charity, and he’s currently renovating a church in new rochelle, n.y. 
looking into the future, it wouldn’t be a surprise to see the yankees, with their mas­sive payroll, spring for a big-name closer to fill rivera’s role. 
but, regardless who the new closer is, the ninth inning at yankee stadium will never be quite the same. 

Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles wrap up fall season at MIAA tourney 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 

The belles play their final matches of the fall Friday and saturday at the miaa Flighted Tournament hosted by hope college in holland, mich. 
The tournament gives saint mary’s (1-0, 0-0 miaa) the op­portunity to scout conference opponents it will play against in the spring season, belles coach dale campbell said. 
“i think it will give all of the teams a chance to see where the other teams are,” campbell said. “it’s not perfect, but you do get to see some of the new players.” 
The belles played sept. 14 against non-conference oppo­nent st. Francis and won 6-3 in their only other action this fall. The miaa tournament is an even better opportunity for play­ers to get court time, campbell said. 
“The tournament is excel­lent because each player is guaranteed two matches, so we can gain a lot of experience, especially for our new players,” campbell said. “we get to have everyone play on our team, where in a team match, typically only six players get to play.” 
Freshmen hannah nichols, sam setterblad and Kaity venters debuted for saint mary’s against st. Francis and will gain more experience at the miaa tournament. nichols earned her first collegiate victory at no. 2 singles. 
campbell said he expects ev­ery player, not just the freshmen, to take advantage of their play­ing time this weekend. 
“my expectations are that they fight for every match and every point,” campbell said. “This is an opportunity to get as much experience as possible, so we want to play our best. i hope we have a few doubles teams and singles players that advance far in the tournament as well.” 
after the tournament, the belles will work out individually throughout the offseason, but the team will organize group service projects. 
“we are continuing to practice one more week after this tourna­ment, then the team primarily conditions on their own or with our strength and conditioning coaches,” campbell said. “we also have individual meetings to discuss their games and what they need to work on in the off­season. we do have multiple service projects together and fundraisers, which give us an opportunity to be together.” 
The miaa tournament serves as a test to show players what they need to work on in the off­season before spring competi­tion begins, campbell said. 
“really it is a finale to the fall season, just to see where we are at this time,” campbell said. “it will help to get the feel of playing the opponents that we will see in the spring, however.” 
The belles head to hope college to play in the miaa Flighted Tournament on Friday and saturday. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
MLB 

Pirates fall to Cubs, blunting NL Central hopes 
Associated Press 

chicago -The pittsburgh pirates' hopes of catching up in the nl central took a big hit wednesday when darnell mcdonald launched a three-run homer, leading the chicago cubs to a 4-2 win. 
with three games remain­ing in the regular season for each team, the pirates trail division-leading st. louis by three games. 
The pirates, who already have clinched a playoff spot, hold a one-game lead over cincinnati for the first wild-card slot. pittsburgh and the reds finish up with a three-game set in cincinnati this weekend. 
mcdonald had three hits, including his homer in the sixth inning that put the cubs ahead 4-1. 
Jake arrieta (4-2) allowed one run and four hits for the cubs. Kevin gregg allowed an unearned run in the ninth for his 33rd save. 
Francisco liriano (16­
8) allowed four runs and eight hits in five innings. he struck out eight and walked one. 

The cubs took a 1-0 lead in the first inning. darwin barney hit a one-out double and scored on a single by anthony rizzo. 
The pirates tied it in the third when Justin morneau walked with the bases load­ed to score starling marte. arrieta avoided a bigger in­ning by getting the next bat­ter, garrett Jones, to ground out. 
The pirates wasted other scoring chances. They had a runner on second with two outs in the fifth. morneau hit a leadoff double in the sixth and advanced to third with out, but was stranded when pedro alvarez ground­ed out and Tony sanchez struck out. 
The cubs came through in the sixth. 
donnie murphy singled and Junior lake walked, mcdonald then hit a 2-1 pitch from liriano halfway up the bleachers in left-cen­ter for his first homer of the season and a 4-1 lead. 
Mets 1, Reds 0 

cincinnaTi — The cincinnati reds probably would have liked daisuke matsuzaka’s first career appearance against them to come at another time — such as next season. 
matsuzaka scattered four hits in 7 2-3 innings to win his third consecutive start, outdueling mat latos in the new york mets’ 1-0 victory on wednesday that further dampened the reds’ hopes of hosting the national league wild-card game on Tuesday. 
eric young Jr. drove in the only run for the mets, who won two of three in the series. 
The reds came into the game in third place in the central division and sec­ond in the wild-card stand­ings, one game behind pittsburgh. The pirates and reds end the regular season with a three-game series starting Friday in cincinnati. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

smc start conference slate 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The belles will head into their first conference meet of the season at the miaa Jamboree hosted by adrian college on saturday. The belles hosted the miaa Jamboree last sea­son and finished the race sixth out of nine competing teams. 
saint mary’s coach Jackie bauters said despite the belles’ very com­petitive conference she has higher expectations for her team than last year. 
“we are hoping to finish fourth out of nine teams, which would be an improvement from last year,” bauters said. “it would also be great, as the other three teams are current­ly ranked in the top 10 in the region.” 
The belles enter the race after an eleventh place finish at the calvin Knight invitational on sept. 14. belles senior Jessica biek ran a five-kilometer personal record time of 19:03.9, which marked the fifth-fastest time in the program’s history. after the calvin Knight invitational and a week off of competition, bauters said the belles are ready to race again. 
“i think just about everyone is ready to have a great performance,” bauters said. “we had a really tough workout [Tuesday] night that the girls nailed.” 
bauters said the training for the rest of the week will not be as intense as it was early during the week. 
“The rest of the week will be lighter than normal so that we can keep them feeling fresh for saturday,” bauters said. 

biek and sophomore allie danhof, who also posted a col­legiate personal record time for a five-kilometer with a 19:39.8 at the calvin Knight invitational, look to lead the team into the race, but bauters said there is another player who she believes will break through at the race. 
“i’m hoping to see a big race out of [freshman] Kathryn marshall,” bauters said. “she is coming off an injury from last track season and has been looking really good in practices.” 
marshall posted a time of 20:47.3 at the calvin Knight international to finish 164th overall. bauters said she has goals for the belles as a team overall. 



“i would love to see our 3-5 as well as the 3-7 gap close up this week,” bauters said. bauters said she is confident in her team’s racing ability and perfor­mance this weekend. 
“i think the team is ready to have a good day,” bauters said. The belles hit the ground run­ning at the miaa Jamboree at adrian college in adrian, mich. on saturday. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


SMC VOLLEYBALL | manchesTer 3, sainT mary’s 1 
Belles lose fourth straight 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
despite a strong start to the match and some stellar individuals performances, the belles were unable to capitalize before falling 3-1 (23-25, 25-20, 25-19, 25-20) to manchester. The loss marks the belles’ fourth in a row. 
belles coach Toni elyea, while pleased with the start to the match, noted the team’s lack of consistency. 
“going into the second and third set i just thought that we lacked enthusiasm,” elyea said. “a lot of the passes were up tight on the net so we weren’t able to run our mid­dle. The service defense sort of shut down going into the second and third set.” 
after taking the first set 25­23, the belles (5-9, 3-4 miaa) continued to trade points with manchester (4-9) in the second before surrender­ing a late seven-point run by the spartans to drop the set 25-20. 
in the third, the spartans jumped to an early 6-1 lead, and when the belles battled back, manchester again capi­talized with a late five-point run on their way to taking the set 25-19. in the fourth and decisive set, the belles held a slim 7-6 lead before the spartans went on a tear, scoring nine of the next 10 points. manchester took the set 25-20, and subsequently the match. 
despite the disappointing finish, elyea praised the standout performances of junior outside hitter Kati schneider, sophomore out­side hitter Katie hecklinski, junior libero meredith mersits, and junior middle hitter melanie Kuczek. 
“we had some players doing some great things, like Kati schneider finishing the night with 17 kills, or Kati hecklinski with 16 kills,” elyea said. “on defense, meredith had 27 digs. she came up with a lot of really great plays. The first set, melanie did just a great job tonight, she finished the night with ten kills and three blocks. we weren’t able to run her as efficiently in the mid­dle as we should have.” 
elsewhere for the belles, 
freshman  setter  clare  
mcmil lan f inished w it h  38  
assists.  

ultimately, elyea knows that while great individual performances are always something to build on, the tipping point between win­ning tight games and losing tight games is the ability to play mistake-free. 
“we need to be efficient at the net,” elyea said. “we can’t go in and hit a .154 [attack percentage]. we have to put the ball away when there’s an opportunity to do so.” 
The belles resume play oct. 1, when they travel to adrian to take on the bulldogs. eThe game is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocci@nd.edu 



ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Gleason refocuses for second year 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
Though she comes from a long line of irish graduates, sophomore Quinn gleason has already made a name for herself at notre dame. 
in her first season with the irish, gleason was named an all-big east se­lection and chosen as the nd monogram club most valuable player. with a sin­gles winning percentage of .840 and a 25-8 singles record, gleason made her mark during her first sea­son. despite her excellent singles record, gleason said she’s found a new love in doubles play since joining the irish. 
“singles has always been my favorite,” gleason said. “but since starting college, i’ve learned to love doubles. i’ve definitely improved in my doubles play.” 
currently, gleason plays at no. 1 doubles with senior britney sanders. The pair 
Smith 
conTinued From page 16 
even though he’s not playing.” 
senior outside linebacker prince shembo, who starts on the opposite as the “cat” line­backer, has also guided smith through the first third of his freshman campaign. shembo and smith were roommates during the beginning of train­ing camp at the shiloh park retreat and conference center in marion, ind. 
“[shembo has helped me as an] on-the-field type of guy, help­ing me improve my game and be more physical,” smith said. 
smith admitted that, at 233 pounds and with just a few months in a collegiate strength and conditioning program un­der his belt, he needs to con­tinue to get stronger. but the freshman said he doesn’t envi­sioning adding loads of weight during his career at notre dame. at most, he thinks he’ll put on five pounds, while hopefully still adding strength and maintain­ing his speed. smith, who also rushed for 1,265 yards and 18 touchdowns as a senior at bishop luers high school, possesses a rare blend of size and speed, making him a natural fit at the dog linebacker spot. 
“i think i definitely excel there,” smith said. “obviously i have a long way before i reach my full potential but really just being able to cover and attack the run is something that the dog posi­tion requires. and i think i’ve done fairly well.” 
smith has racked up 11 tackles has a 3-0 record this season and hope to continue the dominant streak. 
“i love having a partner who wants to win just as bad as i do,” sanders said. “we’re both very intense on the court, which makes us a great team.” 
gleason said she her de­sire to win has greatly im­proved since arriving at notre dame. 
“i’ve definitely become a better competitor,” gleason said. “i’m able to focus on every point and really have the will to win each point and never let up.” 
sanders said gleason shows with every practice how committed to the game she is. 
“Quinn never gets enough of tennis,” sanders said. “even when her body is hurting she always asks someone to practice more with her.” 
gleason said she has got­ten stronger since arriving at notre dame, which has 
thus far but conceded he has made his share of blunders. some of the most difficult aspects of the transition from bishop luers to notre dame, smith said, have been the defensive hand signals and the speed of the game. 
“obviously there have been mistakes and everybody gets mad about those,” he said. “but it’s all about the next play.” 
“i think there’s definitely room for improvement,” smith added. “i’m not satisfied at all.” 
smith’s next chance to show improvement during a game is saturday, when the irish square off with oklahoma at notre dame stadium. Though the sooners enter south bend ranked 14th in the nation and despite the scheduled “green­out” of the stadium, smith is no more excited about saturday’s contest than any other game. his helped her acclimate to the constant stream of matches during the spring season. 
“There’s so much more match play,” gleason said. “you have to be able to play match after match continu­ously for weeks at a time.” 
gleason said she is look­ing forward to seeing what her sophomore season can bring her, especially with the arrival of a new class of players. 
“This year we have a ton of potential,” gleason said. “we have a lot of great, mo­tivated freshmen, so i think they’re going to be great right off the bat.” 
as for her own play this season, gleason said she plans on always finding new things to improve upon. 
“i really want to keep im­proving my game and never get complacent,” gleason said. “There’s always things to improve.” 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
explanation is fleetingly reveal­ing of his youth. 
“every game is going to be ex­citing for me,” smith said. “as a freshman, everything is new. it’s a new experience. i’ve never played in front of 80,000 and 115,000 people. it’s crazy. i’m looking forward to it.” 
suddenly, smith pauses slight­ly and his focus shifts, revealing the maturity that, in part, al­lowed him to become the first freshman outside linebacker to start the season-opener since Kory minor did so in 1995. 
“like i said, we’re taking it day by day,” smith said. “i’m look­ing forward to tomorrow, getting better at practice and really to just do my job every plan. and it will turn out good.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




SMC GOLF 

Belles prep for Kalamazoo 
Observer Staff Report 
after finishing in second place at the first miaa jamboree on Tuesday, saint mary’s heads back to the links saturday for round two at milham park golf club in Kalamazoo, mich. 
Kalamazoo, led by sopho­more maria oleski, who shot a 95 in the first competition, will host this round. 
as with the other three jam­borees this season, all nine conference teams will compete this weekend, giving the belles a chance to see their competi­tion before heading to the two-round miaa end of season weekend Jamboree on oct. 11 and 12. 
The saint mary’s squad has not competed at milham park since 2011, when it took second place at that year’s fourth jam­boree. only senior paige pollak and junior Janice heffernan have experience on the milham course as belles. 
olivet, which claimed last year’s miaa title, led the field Tuesday with a team score of 329, 12 strokes better than saint mary’s 341. calvin sat six strokes back in third place. 

olivet senior Theresa damico earned medalist hon­ors Tuesday with her first-place score of 78. 
pollak tied for second place individually with her round of 80, the best score of the five saint mary’s golfers who played. however, only the scores of the top-four golfers will count to­wards the overall team score in this series of jamborees. 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
trying to do. That was a huge result they had [against wake Forest], and … clearly they’re fully capable of com­ing in here and causing all kinds of problems for us.” 
like the notre dame’s, the Terrapins’ defense is led by sophomore goalie rachelle beanlands, who has collect­ed four shutouts on the sea­son. on the other side of the ball, waldrum lauded the play of maryland’s offensive duo of sophomore midfield­er ashley spivey and senior forward hayley brock. 
brock scored the Terrapins’ only goal against wake Forest and leads the squad with eight, while spivey is second with four. maryland has struggled to score in its past six games, only reaching two goals twice in that span. all three of the Terrapins losses this season were to ranked teams, including one to no. 2 stanford. 
The irish defense, with four shutouts on the year behind freshman goalie Kaela little, will need sup­port from the irish offense, which has scored only two goals in the past two games. waldrum is looking for players beyond leading scor­ers junior forward lauren bohaboy and freshman mid­fielder morgan andrews to step up. 
“we have to get a little more production out of all three of the forwards we’ve been using,” waldrum said. “These last couple of games we haven’t gotten much pro­duction out of them, which we were earlier in the year. i think a little bit of not scor­ing as many goals had to do with the opposition as well, but i’d also say we have take some ownership of it offen­sively. i’m hoping we can get [sophomore forward cari] roccaro unleashed a little bit, get some more offense out of her.” 
against a quality ranked team like maryland, waldrum said his team can’t afford to be stagnant or start slow. 
“This isn’t the kind of game where we can take half an hour to get going,” wadrum said. “against a good team like maryland, that might be a half an hour too late.” 
The irish look to protect alumni stadium from the upset-hungry Terrapins on Thursday night at 7 p.m. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 


each round in the four, one-round jamborees and the two-round final jamboree will help determine the belles’ over­all finish in the conference through their cumulative six-round score. 
The belles will tee off for the second round of miaa play saturday at 1 p.m. at milham park golf club in Kalamazoo, mich. 
paid adverTisemenT 



Walton 
conTinued From page 16 
mike berticelli. berticelli told walton he wanted him to play three years of soccer but would allow him to par­ticipate in spring football his freshman and sophomore years. 
but that plan never happened. 
walton led the irish soccer team in scoring as a freshman in 1998 with 10 goals and sev­en assists in what he would eventually become his final year of organized soccer. he earned all-big east second-team honors while starting 17 of 18 games. he walked onto the football team in the spring. 
“i loved playing soccer. i didn’t love college soccer as much,” walton said. “after the first year of spring football, i decided this is what i really wanted to pursue. [berticelli] was okay with me doing that, gave me the ability to do that.” 
walton said college soccer did not have the same feeling as playing with his club team, which he had played with for years. 
“most of the guys i played with was for nine or 10 years so it was kind of like a family, very tight, very close and very competitive,” he said. “it was like brothers.” 
despite playing seemingly opposite sports, walton said his soccer background helped him assimilate to football. 
“having played soccer, hav­ing seen a play develop be­fore it’s developed is huge,” he said. “it was like a puzzle. you see one thing happen and then you say ‘oh, this is what’s going to happen.’ it re­ally helped me in that regard.” 
on the soccer pitch, walton was doing the scoring. but on the football field, he was do­ing the stopping. 
as cornerback, walton had the pressure of covering the offense’s best player — and he loved the pressure. 
“i know a lot of people say that’s the toughest thing about playing but i love the challenge, i love the pressure, i love the competition,” he said. “every play was a bat­tle. That is one of my favorite things.” 
in his four years of playing, walton appeared in 43 games, totaling 151 tackles and 11 interceptions. seven of his interceptions came in notre dame’s 10-3 season in 2002. 
The irish opened that sea­son 8-0, but dropped three of their final fives games, start­ing with a shocking 14-7 loss to boston college. 
“it was amazing up until the point when we lost to boston college,” walton said. “it was everything coming together. it was the defense, we were on the same page, we were flying to the football. it was a lot of fun. after having some tough years prior to that, that season was magical until that boston college game.” 
in some ways, the 2002 sea­son was very similar to the 2012 one just a season ago. in both years, a quarterback made his home debut against purdue, the game against pittsburgh was a nail-biter, the irish beat a national pow­er to go 8-0 and notre dame finished the home schedule with a shutout. 
walton said there was one significant difference be­tween the two squads. 
“obviously, they won more games than we did,” walton said. “They got to the national championship, which was our goal. They left their goal un­fulfilled by not winning but they had an amazing season.” 
after his career at notre dame ended, the psychol­ogy, sociology and computer applications student turned towards the nFl. walton was drafted in the fifth round by the st. louis rams despite be­ing tabbed as a consensus all­american the prior season. 
during preseason, however, 
paid adverTisemenT 


walton suffered a ruptured disc in his back. some of the spinal fluid leaked into his left leg and he could not feel his left leg. he said he could not lift his foot or walk. 
“They didn’t know if i was going to gain the sensation back in my nerves,” walton said. “i still have nerve dam­age to this day. it’s something i never recovered from. 
“it was the most unbear­able pain i’ve ever had. i’ve had broken arms, separated shoulders. This was the worst pain i’ve ever been in in my life.” 
walton said he sometimes looks back on his career and wonders what could have been. 
“i’m under the impression that everything in life hap­pens for a reason and i ain’t worrying because of some of the things that have hap­pened in my past,” he said. 
walton, 33, lives in san diego and will be getting married in five weeks. he still plays soccer with his child­hood teammates. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaFonTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: spencer Treat clark, 26; erin chambers, 34; nia vardalos, 51; Kevin sorbo, 55. 
Happy Birthday: look for answers, ask questions and scout for opportunities. em­brace your emotions and share your thoughts. Focus on knowledge and incorporat­ing positive changes that will help ease stress and bring you closer to lifelong goals. let the past go and step into the future feeling confident that you are doing what’s best for you. seek the truth. your numbers are 3, 10, 19, 23, 34, 48, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): an unlikely partnership will bring about changes to the way you live. a change will do you good and must be incorporated quickly before the window of opportunity closes. Think fast, take action quickly and don’t look back. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t race through everything or you will fall short and face criticism. a job you are considering will not be as exciting as it sounds. Find out exactly what’s being offered and get promises in writing. don’t argue; be nice. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll have some good suggestions, but don’t cross the line or you will be blamed for meddling. Tables will turn quickly if your facts aren’t right. instead, put more into your home and improving your standard of living. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): use your imagination and you will come up with inter­esting ways to socialize, make new acquaintances and find romantic settings that will enhance your life. a growing interest should not be ignored. pursue what draws you with a passion. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): change your surroundings. staying at home will result in conflict. Take time to think about a personal problem you face before you confront the situation. Time is on your side and will help alleviate making a wrong assump­tion. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): head out in search of a little adventure. you need a change of scenery or mental and physical stimulation that will perk your interest and motivate you to get involved with something exciting and satisfying. work to straighten out any emotional mix-ups. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Taking an emotional trip down memory lane will help you clear up pending issues that have been standing between you and a decision you need to make. Truth will be the deciding factor when it comes to personal relation­ships. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you may want to make some noteworthy alterations at home, but consider the cost involved. consider innovative ways to get what you want for less. your ingenuity will be impressive and result in raising your profile and your confidence. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): a proactive approach will get the job done no mat­ter what it is you are trying to accomplish, but expect to experience some opposition and emotional mind games along the way. don’t hesitate; make your voice heard and put your plans into motion. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): someone with a hidden agenda will charm you. don’t count on anything or anyone. it’s important to take control of any situation you face that can influence your reputation or status. change isn’t the answer -- consistency and fair play is. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put more into your surroundings. what you do to feel more at home or comfortable will lift your spirits and help you put a greater distance between you and someone who has limited you in the past. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): check over paperwork that can make a difference in the way you do business or make investments. The choices you make regarding your health and financial well-being will bring about other opportunities to pursue something or someone that interests you. 


Birthday Baby: you are dedicated, loyal and creative. you are intelligent and sophis­ticated. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


FOOTBALL 

Working like a ‘dog’ 
Smith thrives in freshman season, learns from injured Spond 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 

it’s easy to forget, sometimes, just how green Jaylon smith is. 
but when the freshman out­side linebacker walked into the isban auditorium in the guglielmino athletic complex on wednesday evening to face the media for the first time at notre dame, there were a few quick reminders of his youth. 
smith, who was ranked by espn as the no. 7 overall recruit in the class of 2013, deliberated a few seconds about where to plop down, unsure of where he should go, before he found his seat in the front row. after all, he’s never done this before. 
The first question to smith asked for his prediction for a high school football game in smith’s hometown of Fort wayne, ind. 
youthful reminders aside, smith has found his place at notre dame, on and off the field. 
The transition to college, and specifically to living with an­other randomly-assigned fresh­man, has been seamless. smith reminded reporters he and his roommate are not ‘kids.’ 
“we’re young adults now,” smith said. “it was very easy ad­justing. everyone’s friendly here. i love it.” 
Through four games on the field, similarly, the 6-foot-3, 233-pounder has played older than the rookie he is. after senior linebacker danny spond retired from football due to hemiplegic migraines in fall training camp, smith was slotted into the start­ing “dog” linebacker position, joining a linebacking rotation that features almost exclusively upperclassmen. 
“my first thoughts were just to pray for danny and just hope that he’d be safe getting back out there,” smith said. 
spond has stayed with the football program, serving as a de facto assistant coach on the sideline. 


“he’s been wonderful,” smith said. “he’s mastered the position i’m playing and he has given me great advice and i really appre­ciate just him being around and 

every day just learning from him 
see smiTh PAGE 12 

WAKING THE ECHOES | shane walTon 
walton kicks his soccer habit 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
The irish were getting off the bus in colorado springs, colo., for a game against air Force in 2002. 
cornerback shane walton, clad in a suit and tie, stepped down to the pavement and began to loosen his tie. That’s when he heard a voice 
– former irish coach Tyrone willingham. 
“he said ‘why is your tie un­done?’ i said ‘coach, we’re al­most here.’ he said ‘you never know who’s looking,’” walton said in a phone interview with The observer. “That has always stuck with me in my mind and in my brain. … you never know if you have the ability to impact someone.” 
walton, who played for willingham for one season, said willingham was very dif­ferent than his predecessor bob davie. 
“i still remember a lot of the quotes [willingham] said, i still hear him in my head when i’m getting ready to do things,” he said. “a lot of life lessons he taught me, i still carry with me.” 
walton, notre dame’s most recent all-american corner­back, is now finding a way to impact lives by coaching at his former high school in san diego. 
“i’ve learned a lot from coach willingham and i’m always quoting him and i’m really not there just to coach football,” walton said. “That’s secondary. i’m there to really teach kids life les­sons and learn how to accept responsibility. 
The 2003 graduate is now coaching defensive backs at the bishops school. walton starred as both a soccer and football player at the school in the mid-90s. 
“if they make a mistake, it’s more about how they respond and how they react,” walton said, “There are things that they’re going to have to go through in life. if they go to college, that’s what i want to prepare them for. yes, it’s football but it’s so much more than that to me.” 
walton was initially re­cruited to notre dame as a soccer player by former coach 
see walTon PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

ND faces upstart Terps 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 

after a week off, no. 3 notre dame looks to extend its win streak to five games and remain undefeated in conference play with a vic­tory Thursday against no. 22 maryland. 
The irish (7-1, 3-0 acc) will be hosting their second consecutive acc opponent as part of a four-game home stand. while notre dame’s only loss this season was at home to ucla on sept. 1, it has only allowed three goals in its six games at alumni stadium this sea­son. irish coach randy waldrum said the timing of the home stand gives the irish an advantage in their transition to the acc. 
“yeah, you know what, that’s what you hope for,” waldrum said. “i’d certain­ly rather have it at home, in front of our crowd, than having that stretch on the road. i think especially with being a young team, it has worked out really nice in that regard to have a good stretch [at home] early.” 
while the irish have built momentum during their four game win streak, maryland (6-3, 2-1), coming off a 1-0 defeat of last week’s no. 3 team, wake Forest, is unlikely to be intimidated by notre dame’s ranking. according to waldrum, the Terrapins are a threat not because of their recent vic­tory, but rather because of their style of play, which may look familiar to fans of the irish. 

“i think what every­one is going to see is that maryland is kind of the mirror image of the way we play,” waldrum said. “The formations are the same, the style of play is the same. They’re a team that’s going to know exactly what we’re 
see w soccer PAGE 13 




