The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 35 | MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Political scientist updates students on immigration 
By TORI ROECK 
associate news editor 
rogers smith, politi­cal science professor at the university of pennsylvania, said in a lecture Friday that amid the government shut­down, the immigration de­bate in the united states stands in a similarly “grid­locked” state. 
The talk, titled “immigration and american identity in the 21st century,” sponsored by the constitutional studies program, explored the notion of american civic identity with regard to immigration issues. 
“The controversies sur­rounding immigration, i’ve argued, are bound up with many factors – economic con­cerns, partisan concerns – but also with very deep concerns about what american civic identity should be in the 21st century,” he said. 

smith said those advocat­ing the opposing sides to the immigration debate do so passionately to defend their conception of the united states. 
“immigration is a critical battleground in a long-run­ning and now severely polar­ized struggle for american identity, a struggle in which many on both sides feel they cannot lose because they’d be effectively giving up on the america in which they genuinely and profoundly be­lieve,” he said. 
The traditional idea of america conflicts with the country’s current state, smith said. 
“our problem is that for a powerful minority of americans, the america that is distinctly instilled [is] sublimi­nally a predominately white, predominately christian, pre­dominately male-led country, and in contrast, it’s still grow­ing to figure out what the con­centrated majority believe in and now comprise an america where its leaders are far more ethnically, racially, religiously and sexually diverse,” he 
see immigraTion PAGE 4 


Mariachi ND cha- chas to the top 


Students to observe poverty 
organizations including soup kitchens, catholic missions and other poverty relief charities in 40 cities across the u.s, she said. in preparation for the immersion experience, Faulstich said stu­dents take a one-credit course on the church and social action. 
“The purpose of this course is for students to learn the basics of catholic social teaching and what poverty means in an urban setting,” she said. 
The program is followed by a meeting where students meet to reflect upon their experiences, Faulstich said. 
“overall, urban plunge is an eye-opening experience that 
see urban PAGE 4 


By CRISTINA SANCHEZ 
news writer 
The center for social concerns’ urban plunge program offers students a productive way to be­come involved in social issues over their fall break. 

Junior aleshia Faulstich, who serves as Task Force chair for urban plunge, said the program involves a 48-hour immersion ex­perience in urban poverty. Three hundred student participants learn about urban poverty by vol­unteering at a variety of service 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
it is no longer a secret that the best way to turn your campus event from siesta to fiesta is to include a performance from mariachi nd. 
in its first year as an official club, mariachi nd is draw­ing more attention than ever before, senior briana cortez, mariachi nd president and di­rector, said. 
The group has already per­formed at a tailgate hosted by multicultural student programs and services (msps), the snite@nite series, the Fiesta del sol and the ndream immigration celebration, cortez said. 
sophomore maggie schmid, mariachi nd secretary, said mariachi nd is and should be enjoyed for their cultural connotation and their talent. 
“you can celebrate a culture you grew up with or learn about a new culture,” schmid said. “we also have some very tal­ented people in our group and everyone should want to hear them.” 
schmid said joining mariachi in college has been a way to re­connect with her heritage. 
“i didn’t necessarily grow up around it, but my mom’s family loves mariachi music. [mariachi nd] allowed me to get back to my roots,” she said. “and everyone in mariachi is like family now.” 
cortez said gaining club sta­tus made it easier for the group to contact and be contacted by those requesting a perfor­mance. she also said they be­gan providing a valentine’s day 
see mariachi PAGE 5 

panel analyzes bullying on college campuses 
By KIERA JOHNSEN 
news writer 
Two saint mary’s and notre dame students discussed the definition of campus bullying and how to deal with the issue in a panel titled “addressing bullying on campus: seeking Justice, solidarity & personal dignity” on Friday in spes unica hall. 
adrienne chockley, inter­im coordinator of the Justice education program and visiting assistant professor in philosophy, said the pro­gram was designed to empower students to make a more just and peaceful community and to help foster solidarity.
 “i first heard about bullying on campus last spring,” chockley said. “i teach philosophy, and in an introduction to philosophy class several students came up to me and said they had been bullied on campus … this panel discussion comes out of my ex­perience in the classroom with people saying they had been or knew people who had been bullied.” 

chockley said part of justice education is addressing and standing up for marginalized populations. 
“i’m committed to the well-be­ing of this community and part of justice education is addressing marginalized populations and standing up for vulnerable and marginalized populations,” she 
see JusTice PAGE 4 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What is the most average dorm on campus? 

Annalise Burnett 


Erin Aucar 
sophomore 

sophomore 
ryan hall 

Farley hall 
“knott.” 

“pe.” 
Tom Aichele 


Mary Claire Burchett 
sophomore 

freshman 
sorin college 

le mans hall 
“sorin.” 

“sorin.” 
Tom Bagiackas 


Albert Vargas 
senior 

freshman 
off-campus 

Fisher hall 
“Zahm.” 

“Zahm.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

meg handelman Joseph monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: kelly konya vicky Jacobsen nicole mcalee casey karnes 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
maria massa gabriela leskur 
Photo Viewpoint 

Graduate Workshop Men’s Soccer Kaneb Center Open Third Thursdays @ Trumpets Under the 
oe kenesey dan brombach 
Coleman-Morse Alumni Stadium House the Snite Dome Center 7 p.m.-9 p.m. DeBartolo Hall Snite Museum of Art Main Building 8 a.m.-10 a.m. The Irish take on 3 p.m.-5 p.m. 5 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m.-4:45 p.m. 
Corrections 

Get feedback on CVs the Northwestern Enjoy hors d’oeuvres Glassblowing Trumpets kick off the 
The observer regards itself as and cover letters. Wildcats. and conversation. demonstration. football weekend. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“A Game of Clones” “A Star is Born” Trivia Night Zen Meditation Macbeth 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Hayes-Healy Center DeBartolo Performing St. Liam Hall Coleman-Morse DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
4 p.m.-5 p.m. Arts Center 6 p.m.-7:30 p.m. Center Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
ACMS colloquium 8 p.m. Take a study break. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 7 p.m.-9:25 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
on stem cell A young woman Part of the Wellness Open to students and Broadcast by National 
we can correct our error. 

development. arrives in Hollywood. Wednesday series. faculty of all faiths. Theatre Live. 


Biology club sponsors ND Vision Walk 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
The notre dame biology club sponsored the 4th annual vision walk on campus sunday. The walk raised awareness for those suffering from retinal degenera­tion and collected money for the Foundation Fighting blindness, event chair antoinette pusateri said. 
“Fou ndation Fighti ng blindness is one of the largest non-profits for blindness re­search in the nation,” she said. 
pusateri said maria sellers, a part of the notre dame class of 2011, founded the 5k walk in honor of university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh, she said Father hesburgh suffers from macular degeneration, a retinal disease. 
“when i was a freshman, i had visited him in his of­fice, and he had told me a little bit about his disease,” sellers said. “This caused me to re­search blindness, and i learned about the Foundation Fighting blindness.” 
sellers said she interned at moorfields eye hospital in london, which Foundation Fighting blindness supports. 
“i was actually able to see firsthand how people were be­ing cured, and how research and the support [of those attending the walk] really does add in us restoring vision,” sellers said. 
before the walk began, local optometrists dr. steve gerber and dr. John offerle offered a doctors’ perspective on re­search for retinal diseases, espe­cially research supported by the Foundation Fighting blindness. 
“it is the largest source of private funds for retinal re­search,” gerber said. “we have people and patients right here in michiana with these conditions.” 
dr. John offerle said he en­counters patients with macular degeneration on a daily basis. 
“when i started in practice there wasn’t a lot you could do for it, and over the years incred­ible research has gone into de­veloping new drugs,” he said. “we’ve actually seen legally blind patients get to a point where they can drive now. it’s pretty amazing, and we’ve been doing that for maybe the last 10 years.” 
pusateri, who also chaired the event last year, said she worked this year to increase community outreach. 



“my big goal with it all is to make it a community event, not just the notre dame communi­ty, but also the south bend com­munity,” she said. “we reached out to a lot of the eyecare cen­ters, and it was just so exciting to see how inspired they were to help with this cause.” 
pusateri said the event committee worked with lo­cal businesses and eyecare 
paid adverTisemenT 

professionals in the michiana area to gain support for the walk, which raised nearly $8,000 last year. 
“local businesses gave mon­etary donations, as well as in-kind, donations, like gift cards, for us to raffle and auction off,” she said. “it’s so inspiring to see all these community members and individuals …who have reached out to donate their time and talents.” 
sophomore caitlin mccreary said she participated in the walk in honor of her brother, who was recently diagnosed with mul­tiple sclerosis. 
“part of his condition is hav­ing problems with neurons in his eyes, so i felt like his condi­tion was connected to this, and that’s why i’m here,” she said. 
Contact Catherine Owers at    cowers@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Justice 
conTinued From page 1 
said. “so if students on our cam­pus are being bullied, we need to stand up for them. we need to address it and fix it.” 
samantha grady, a junior at saint mary’s college, began the panel. she said in order to un­derstand why bullying is wrong we need to understand the role of personal dignity, justice and solidarity. 
“personal dignity, in my own words, is something that we all have and its not something you are given or that you receive. its something we have just by being human, and if we understand that than it’s easier to under­stand how we should be treated and how we should treat other people,” she said. “it really ties closely to justice and justice is a response to human dignity. it’s an obligation to treat others in a certain way, because we under­stand that they have dignity.” 
she said she believes humans have an obligation to work to­gether in solidarity and recog­nize that just because a person is not a victim in a bullying situa­tion doesn’t mean they shouldn’t stand up for their peers. 
christine shiba, a notre dame sophomore, said it can be diffi­cult for victims to identify they are being bullied because bul­lying does not always present in the way we imagine it to.“girls twist themselves into something completely different just so they can fit in with a group of girls who they think they should be friends with,” she said. “That’s something people don’t think is bullying because we think of bullying as being kind of in­tense, but if you are unhappy or you’re upset and you feel like you have to convince someone or persuade someone to be your friend than they’re not accepting you for who you are and that’s not treating yourself with the re­spect you have a right to.” 
amy porter, a senior at notre dame, said in modern times so­cial media is used to cyber-bully students. she said the internet of­ten gives people empowerment to say things they would not in a face-to-face conversation. 
“when someone is on social media, because its not face-to­face contact, there are a lot of people who are more willing to say things they would not say face to face over a text,” she said. “That’s become a huge issue, someone who would never say that to their face feels like they have the power to say whatever they’re feeling through social media.” 
porter said its important to expand the definition of bully­ing and realize that, in reality, bullying exists in a much greater realm than what people see it as. 

“i think it’s about expanding your definition of bullying,” she said. 
porter said when teaching kids about bullying, she has found they think of bullying in a physi­cal realm instead of an emotion­al one. 
“it’s all fighting, hitting, push­ing into lockers, all the cliché things you hear about when you are younger,” she said. 
she said people think there is no more bullying once they ar­rive at college, but the reality is the bullying transitions with us. 
“we think we’re adults and we’re more mature,” porter said, “[but] it’s a whole new level of bickering and gossiping.” 
elizabeth kenney, a junior at saint mary’s, said bystanders can have a powerful role in bul­lying situations as well, but it can be difficult and uncomfortable because different situations call for different kinds of responses. 
“as a bystander you have an equally substantial role in a situ­ation,” kenney said. “you can choose to respond actively or passively. by responding pas­sively you ignore what’s going on you ignore the situation but through that through how you ignore the situation you are allowing it to continue.”The panel was presented by the saint mary’s Justice education program and cosponsored by the saint mary’s cross currents program. This panel was in col­laboration with the Take Ten program as a part of the ”voices that must be heard” series. 
Contact Kiera Johnsen at kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 
Urban 
conTinued From page 1 
exposes students to a side of pov­erty in their hometowns they wouldn’t normally see,” said Faulstich. 
last January sophomore emily belin volunteered at the holy Family catholic worker house in kansas city, missouri as part of the urban plunge.“The experi­ence was as enriching for me as it was for the people i was helping,” belin said. 
belin said she prepared meals and interacted with guests at the holy Family house. 
“i came to realize that the guests not only needed a warm meal and a place to stay but that they also needed companionship and the feeling of belonging to a community,” said belin. 
belin said her urban plunge experience, with its emphasis on catholic social Teaching, prompt­ed her to think about the inherent dignity of all people and ways in which poverty can be combated. 
she said the experience moti­vated her to become involved in south bend community outreach programs and apply all that she learned from urban plunge to her service work. 
sophomore sarah witt vol­unteered in indianapolis, at the ronald mcdonald house and a local soup kitchen called bread and bowl. 
witt said the program helped her put a “face” to poverty and understand the needs of her community. 
“you can always learn the facts about homelessness, but urban plunge gives you the opportu­nity to do so much more. it gives you the opportunity to go out and interact with people affected by poverty and hear their stories” witt said. 
witt said the preparatory class­es were especially helpful in al­lowing her to understand urban poverty and fully embrace the urban plunge experience. 
“several speakers came to our classes to help us grasp the com­plexity of the issue,” witt said. “we had some speakers come in who had formerly been homeless. They talked to us about their experienc­es and ways that we can help fight poverty. it was really powerful.” 
Junior mayra martinez said learning about urban poverty through the lens of catholic social tradition enhanced her plunge ex­perience working with chicago’s southwest organizing project. 
“i got to see a side of poverty in my hometown that i didn’t know was there. That type of exposure to poverty issues is really valu­able,” martinez said. 
Faulstich said she encour­ages all students to apply to the program. 
“being a good student is about more than just thriving in aca­demics, its about learning how to make an impact in the world around you and contributing to the common good,” she said. “urban plunge will teach you about solidarity and you will learn a lot about yourself in the process.” 
The application deadline for urban plunge is nov. 1. 
Contact Cristina Sanchez at csanche7@nd.edu 

invented as an effort to pre-
Immigration 
vent racial transformation 
conTinued From page 1 

of america by assigning 
said. 

The notion of an all-white america originated with the Jacksonian democrats who specified citizenship as only available for white males, smith said. a new ra­cial consciousness emerged after the civil war, but it then led to immigration re­strictions in racial terms, he said. 
“The first actual immigra­tion restriction law is the chinese exclusion act that excluded chinese laborers but only chinese laborers,” he said. “The chinese were singled out exclusively on grounds that they were ra­cially unfit.” 
smith said the united states initiated immigra­tion quotas based on na­tional origins in the 1920s. 
“in the 1920s, we got the national ordinance quota system, which was explicitly countries quotas that rep­resented their nationality’s share of the u.s. population toward the end of the 19th century,” he said. 
The 1965 immigration law put a cap on immigration from mexico, which creat­ed the illegal immigration problem the united states has today, smith said. 
now, the immigration debate has become a par­tisan issue, but still unites groups that would not nec­essarily align in other po­litical issues, smith said. For example, labor unions and extremely conserva­tive politicians both agree on restricting immigration, while economic conserva­tives and social liberals agree on loosening restric­tions, he said. 
smith said the current “gridlock” on the issue of immigration reform derives 

paid adverTisemenT 
from a shift in focus within the republican party. 
“in the spring and summer 2013, republican strategists began arguing explicitly that republicans could win in the future without cater­ing to latino voters,” smith said. “They took notice of the fact that according to exit polls, no democrat has carried white voters since lyndon Johnson in 1964.” 
despite a shutdown in the political debate, smith said he is confident the new diverse conception of america will prevail. 
“a predominately white, predominately christian, predominately male-led america will finally be driven off stage,” smith said. “… The question is, ‘how much damage will be done to this country by the politics gridlock that began before this change comes?’” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 



Mariachi 
conTinued From page 1 
serenade service last year and have benefitted from the pub­licity it generated. 
although this is their first year as a club, the group has been around since 1995 as a subdi­vision of the coro primavera, a spanish-language liturgical choir for notre dame and saint mary’s students, cortez said. 
she said in past years the group has performed annually at the kellogg institute’s dia de los muertos celebration, latin expressions and the Feast of our lady of guadalupe mass in the basilica of the sacred heart. 
sophomore samantha rosas, mariachi nd social media rep­resentative, said a future goal for the group is to play during halftime of a football game. 
cortez said one of her favorite things about mariachi nd is ex­posing people to mexican cul­ture and the mariachi tradition. 


“i love the people and i love questions and take pictures, university fully intending to the music, but i also love just and it’s really fun. our club is join mariachi nd after seeing a walking around campus and about sharing the culture and performance while visiting as a seeing the reactions of people,” what mariachi stands for.” high school senior. she said. “They stop us to ask cortez said she came to the “i wasn’t that into mariachi 
paid adverTisemenT 

before i came here. it was just always in the background grow­ing up,” she said. “i came for spring visitation weekend and saw mariachi play. i thought it was so cool. i came as a fresh­man looking for this band, and was once i was in it i thought it was amazing.” 
cortez said the group offers new experiences both musical­ly and socially. 
“it’s a perfect opportunity to explore musical creativity. it’s a chance for musicians to challenge themselves and ex­pand their horizons,” she said. “you also get to meet people you wouldn’t otherwise meet. every Tuesday you can come to relax and play music with your friends.” 
rosas said performances pro­vide a great way to communi­cate a cultural heritage to those who are unfamiliar with it. 
“you can reach out to people who don’t even understand what you’re saying. The music breaks down barriers,” rosas said. 
rosas said mariachi is her favorite activity on campus be­cause the group is like a family. 
“i joined freshman year look­ing for that sense of family that is sometimes lacking in college,” she said. “The group provides this because it is centered on a love for the same type of mu­sic, a commonality that brings us together. it is my favorite thing that i’m part of that does have a sense of family.”senior Fernando lozano, mariachi nd librarian, said he joined the club because it represents a 
“Our club is about sharing the culture and what mariachi stands for.” 
Briana Cortez 
Mariachi ND                         
president 
connection to his family, espe­cially his grandfather. 
“The reason i joined mariachi is mariachi has always been a big part of my life,” lozano said. “i wanted to stay connected to my grandpa who loved mariachi 
— he would have mariachi mu­sic playing all the time and sang well himself. it’s also a connec­tion with all of my family back home. we always have mariachi music at family gatherings.” 
lozano said the club encour­ages all interested musicians to join mariachi nd. he said he recommends joining be­cause they are very creative and experimental. 
“people should join us be­cause we try a lot of new things and experiment — it’s very spontaneous. we’re even con­sidering doing some covers of non-mariachi songs this year,” he said. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

college: 21st century robber baron 

INSIDE COLUMN 

my autumn fantasy 
Nicole McAlee 
news writer 

sunday was a perfect fall day. 
a cloudless blue sky, slowly-but­surely turning leaves fluttering in the light breeze and the crisp tang of changing seasons in the air. 
i’ve waited long enough. sheesh. 
The fading of summer and the ar­rival of autumn is one of my favor­ite things in the world. at home in pennsylvania, it is arguably (and reliably) the most beautiful time of year. i have this kind of romantic idea about what fall will be like every year. it usually pops into my mind around sept. 15 and makes me unnaturally excited for the coming weeks. 
here’s how my fantasy looks: when the clock strikes midnight on sept. 30, the temperature immediately drops. i’m talking high of 63 degrees, low of 44 every day. i open my draw­ers to find only oversized sweaters and knobby knit scarves in shades of rust and vermilion. a steaming pumpkin spice latte is in my hand at all times. pumpkins are arranged artistically in the bed of a vintage pickup truck.  warm-colored candles glow on the windowsill. 
i should know better than to count on the weather in south bend, but that’s what i get for being an opti­mist. and an occasional pinterest browser. 
here’s the reality: The high on saturday was 80. i wore shorts and sweated inelegantly at the keough chariot race. i opted for iced tea instead of a pumpkin spice latte dur­ing my last starbucks run. i drive a pumpkin-free 2005 honda accord and not a vintage pickup truck. candles are a fire hazard and thus not allowed in the dorms. 
so yeah, this fall doesn’t really jive with the carefully planned (and pinned) ideal. 
and the thing is, i really shouldn’t complain. visions of pumpkin spice lattes may be dancing in my head, but soon enough i’ll wake up every morning to a high of 37 degrees, and i’ll kick myself for ever wishing the weather would turn cold. 
on sunday, that perfect fall day, i told a friend that i’d like to hit the pause button on the weather. if i woke up every day and it was exactly like sunday, i would be perfectly content. 
he paused and squinted at me. “so … you want to go to stanford,” he said. 
hold on, man. i never said that. let it never be said that i wanted to go to stanford. keep your voice down. 
on second thought, i’ll take that south bend volatility. 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Adam Newman 
scientia potentia est 

There are few assets more valued in the 21st century than a college education. The current unemploy­ment for those with a bachelor’s or advanced degree was 3.5-percent as of august 2013 versus 7.6-percent for those with only a high school degree. compared to high school graduates, college graduates earn up to $1,000,000 more in their lifetimes, live longer, have more retirement se­curity and have lower divorce rates. while a college education seems es­sential, college presents the average american with a major issue: cost. 
according to bloomberg, college costs have risen 1,120-percent, out­pacing inflation and virtually every other consumer good over the past 35 years. rising costs eat away at the incomes and savings of families, who have seen incomes rise just a fraction of that. in 1999, the cost of a year of public college amounted to 39-percent of a family’s annual in­come, but by 2007, it rose to 55-per­cent. To put it simply, college is becoming unaffordable. 
perhaps most significantly, rising college costs are saddling our gener­ation with a load of debt. currently, the total amount of student loan debt stands at $1.2 trillion, which is more than the total amount of credit card debt and auto loan debt. however, with only 50-percent of college graduates able to find jobs upon graduation, many will not be able to afford to pay back the average student loan of $23,300. 
notre dame is no saint when it comes to the cost of college. between 1993 and 2013, tuition (which does not include room and board, books etc.) increased from $14,650 to $44,605, or more than 300-percent over two decades. significantly, the 2013-2014 school year is the first year the total cost of a year at notre dame (including room and board, books etc.) passed $60,000, according to the notre dame website. perhaps even scarier, if one were to take the average rate of growth for notre dame tuition increases over the past decade, 2003-2013 (5.23-percent), and then project it into the future, a year of notre dame education will exceed $70,000 by 2016, $100,000 by 2023 and $150,000 by 2031. 
There are many reasons for the rise in college costs. one of the main reasons is the construction of new buildings, institutes, departments etc. unfortunately, colleges have used much of their capital spending to construct buildings not related to academics, such as very nice dorms, cafeterias, sports arenas and gyms. another reason is the increase in the number of administrators working at universities in addition to high administrative salaries. 
consumers tolerate these in­creases due to the priority that people place on college and the poor ability of consumers to judge the quality of the academic experience. people generally understand the importance of college in a child’s future. as a result, they are willing to spend more and more and more in order for their children to attain it. however, students and parents focus too little on academic factors that can help a student’s experience such as the size of classes, the per­centage of students taught by ten­ured faculty, academic resources, etc. nor do they focus on indicators of long-term value, such as the ca­reer resources offered, the percent­age of students who receive jobs after college, the activeness of a col­lege’s alumni network etc. instead they focus on non-academic factors such as luxurious dorms, swimming pools, weather, cafeteria food and others. 
college is extremely important to the personal success of its students. however, the importance of a col­lege education does not justify high annual cost increases. however, much of the increase has been due to new buildings and to an increase in a vast bureaucracy. This has al­lowed higher education to become one of the most wasteful sectors in the american economy. 
in my next article, i will outline eight ideas that notre dame and other colleges can use to lower costs while maintaining the quality of a college education, so that more students in pursuit of the american dream don’t walk into a nightmare. 
Adam Newman is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Understanding charity and justice 
in his letter to the editor on oct. 9, mr. gianfalla makes a good point that catholic social Teaching is often used to rationalize one’s poor choice in political ideology. unfortunately, mr. gianfalla has a flawed understanding of what catholic social Teaching includes. his analysis fails to note the dif­ference between charity and jus­tice, both of which are required of catholics. charity, as he notes, is personal action taking care of the immediate needs of the people, and it is best left to private enti­ties. Justice, however, entails finding solutions to the systemic root causes of poverty and degra­dation of human persons and re­quires group action to rectify the situation. 
many liberal catholics are cor­rect in seeing the need for justice in our society, whereas many con­servatives i have met let this aspect of catholic social Teaching fall to the wayside, adopting an ayn rand mentality of “justice” found in purely capitalist societies that leads to the oppression of the lower socioeconomic levels of society to the benefit of the strong. This approach to capitalist economics must be resisted, as it is contrary to the dignity of our brothers and sisters around us, degrading them to the amount of economic output that can be produced. Just as god gave us free will to choose to love him and one another, the individ­ual freedoms we have as members of our republic ought to be used toward forwarding the greater good of our communities. 
however, a socialist society is also unjust. much like unre­strained capitalism, pure socialism subordinates the person to the gov­ernment and views the people as a collective, rather than a group of individuals, each with dignity and fundamental rights. in attempting to cater to the collective, it dispar­ages individual excellence and perpetuates a cycle of poverty and dependence on the government. This is contrary to a person’s right to work for a just wage to support his or her own family. additionally, socialist governments put a per­son’s liberty under strict regulation 
— restricting their ability to choose their own healthcare plan or even drink size. such minute regulation of a person’s liberty is contrary to that person’s natural rights. 
as catholics, we have an ob­ligation to seek social justice. unfortunately, both liberal and conservative catholics often allow party-line ideology to warp their reason and conscience. in order to create a just society, we need to consider policies that prevent the most vulnerable members of our society from being trampled: by prohibiting abortion in order to protect the unborn, by restricting unfair and unregulated business practices to protect consumers and workers and by reforming welfare policies that perpetuate the cycle of poverty in order to protect the economically disadvantaged. The united states was established on the ideal that we could create a more perfect form of governance, one that respects the liberty of the people as well as promotes the common good. by pragmati­cally adapting our economic and social policies to better match our national principles based on classi­cal liberal thought, catholic social Teaching will best come to fruition. 
Caroline Jansen 
junior cavanaugh hall 


Clearing up the blurred lines 
Sarah Morris 
viewpoint columnist 

in light of mark gianfalla’s oct. 9 column “blurred lines of catholic social Teaching,” i am compelled to offer a rebuttal. From the attention-grabbing title that seemed especially insensitive in light of the recent incidents around campus to the entirety of the letter’s body, there really was no part of the piece with which i could find myself in agreement. ultimately, this discussion comes down to the age-old question of whether it is im­possible to be a catholic and a liberal, or the other way around. To me, the answer to such a conun­drum is not as cut and dry as any of us probably wish it were. in some obvious ways, today’s official catholic church falls closer to the right side of the spectrum in regards to abortion, same-sex mar­riage and even birth control. however, my interpre­tations of the vast majority of the church’s stances 
— as well as the gospels themselves — result in conclusions starkly different from those expressed by mr. gianfalla. 
while i suppose it is commendable to “take the first shot,” especially when it comes to the is­sues that are not plainly in line with conservative platforms, the attempt to align catholic social Teaching against economic and immigration re­form is inevitably futile and destined to fail. First, to assume that Jesus would support an economic system whose ultimate goal is to accumulate as much wealth as one possibly can over a system in which all members of society are guaranteed vital services provided by an organized body is prepos­terous. This is not an assault on capitalism, nor an endorsement of socialism, but any logical person must admit that Jesus would have very, very serious issues with our nation’s current system. Time and again, Jesus condemns obsessions with material wealth. This is not because “wealth represented greed because many became wealthy by unfair ways,” but because, as st. paul writes, “the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, and in their ea­gerness to be rich some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pains (1 Timothy 6:10).” parables of the unhappy young rich man yearning for true fulfillment (which ap­pears in matthew, mark and luke’s gospels) and the poor widow’s gift far exceeding the value of the rich man’s not in sum but in sacrifice (luke 21:1-4) are clear examples of Jesus’ opposition to the capi­talistic drive to wealth. gianfalla’s letter claims that, “The bible parables are there to encourage charity and selflessness.” This is not true. parables were not silly little stories to “encourage” good traits among christ’s followers. These stories are vital tools to demand the things that must be done in order to build the kingdom of god. Jesus’ para­bles and teachings go far deeper than simple char­ity. charity, though a vital and wonderful aspect of our faith, is not enough. we are a people dedicated to justice. 
Furthermore, the letter continues on its doomed path as it introduces the subject of immigration and recent changes in the university’s policy re­garding admission for undocumented students. The author claims this policy to be wrong, for it does not coincide with the usccb and instead ad­vocates for breaking the law. i would again advise caution with such an argument, for this rationale falls dangerously close to the pharisee legalism which the bible denounces on multiple occasions (luke 11:37-52, galatians 5:22). not only does this new policy fall directly in line with the usccb: “The church supports the human rights of all people and offers them pastoral care, education and social services, no matter what the circum­stances of entry into this country, and it works for the respect of the human dignity of all, especially those who find themselves in desperate circum­stances,” (welcoming the stranger among us: unity in diversity, a statement of the u.s. catholic bishops), but it once again addresses fundamental principles that transcend the current unjust laws of our country and aids in reform to such policies, in accordance with the larger church’s efforts. The author then charges undocumented students to “be responsible for your own actions.” of course, this is only my humble opinion, but i can imagine few examples that demonstrate more responsibility for one’s actions than working hard enough to gain admittance to one of the most prestigious universi­ties in the country. 
The fact that such radically different interpreta­tions of church doctrine and the bible itself exist within “one, holy, catholic and apostolic church” is astounding and fascinating. i came to this uni­versity fully expecting to encounter views entirely different than my own, and am thankful for the op­portunity to discuss and exchange ideas. coming from a relatively (or shockingly, depending on your point of view, i guess) liberal parish located in the san Francisco bay area, i cannot help but chuckle to myself when individuals lament the liberaliza­tion of notre dame. perhaps the best consolation i could offer is an invitation to mass at st. angela’s next time you find yourself out west. i’m sure that once the convulsions of disgust cease, you will re­alize that notre dame has a long, long way to go. 
Sarah Morris can be contacted at smorris8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

a rebuttal to mark gianfalla 
most of the “contradictory fiction” regarding catholic social Teaching i have encountered in my two months at this university has been found in mark gianfalla’s letter to the editor, “blurred lines of catholic social Teaching” from oct. 9, namely in his highly questionable premise that being a liberal uni­versity is antithetical to being a catholic one. 
mr. gianfalla, “inspired by bill o’reilly’s inter­view” of a notre dame professor (why we are taking inspiration from anything produced by bill o’reilly is beyond me, but i digress), insists that redistribu­tion of wealth is not demanded in the bible. rather, the verses which speak of how “the kingdom of heav­en belongs to the poor” are there merely to encour­age charity. clearly the example of the early church in which “no one claimed private ownership of any possessions” and wealth was “distributed to each as any had need (acts 4:32-35)” should be ignored, as should Jesus’ directive to “sell your possessions, and give the money to the poor (matthew 19:21).” 
additionally, mr. gianfalla defends being wealthy by giving examples of rich individuals who give large sums away. however, such an action is not sim­ply a nice gesture or a demonstration of charity; it is justice. we speak of charity as a kind thing to do, but the catechism tells us that “when we attend to the needs of those in want, we give them what is theirs, not ours (ccc 2446).” The money that the rich gave away was not their own in the first place. The knowl­edge that there are people in our society who are lacking the essentials of life behooves us to restore their social justice, “justice” being that virtue by which we give to each his due. The poor are owed the essentials of life, not optionally given them when we are feeling particularly generous. 
later, mr. gianfalla argues that the new university policy to admit undocumented students is contrary to catholic social Teaching, stating that individu­als brought here as children “have to be responsible for [their] own actions,” as if the “responsible” thing to do would be to leave the country. nevermind the lack of opportunity to provide for oneself outside the country or the poverty to which one would be sub­jected (on top of the already trying economic situ­ations for those already here) should one leave. no, the “responsible” thing to do is obviously to shoot oneself in the economic foot and leave our nation. god forbid the university helps the undocumented, many of whom would not otherwise be able to be­come educated and have a chance to climb the so­cial ladder. 
mr. gianfalla would be well-advised to revisit the catholic social Teaching principle of giving a preferential option to the poor and vulnerable. The undocumented, being among the poorest and most socially and legally vulnerable, must be given pref­erential treatment, being unable to acquire social justice themselves. mr. gianfalla argues the fact that they are in this nation illegally renders them ineli­gible to receive aid under catholic social Teaching. i question the ethics of the laws which make legal immigration a very long and expensive process. are we obligated to uphold laws that make it nearly im­possible for one to immigrate into this country? 
Though certainly not all of the policies espoused by liberalism are morally sound, mr. gianfalla’s heavy-handed denunciation of one professor’s stance on Jesus’ social teaching and the university’s new policy on undocumented applicants is hardly a better reading of catholic social Teaching as it applies to our community. instead, we must be mindful of the need to practice social justice for all members of the human family. 
Stephen Jakubowski 
freshman st. edward’s hall 



By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

sparked by the fifth time in about a two­month’s span of being asked the question, i decided to answer it comprehensively in written form. 
rather than spewing out disjointed, al­beit passionate, ramblings to explain my thoughts, i’d like to take a more coherent, collected moment to answer my take on, “how do you find new music?” in my mind, there are multiple avenues in which a per­son can navigate to discover new, or missed, music, especially considering all the oppor­tunities now available to us in this digital age: 
1) Follow review websites and magazine 
one of the easiest ways to stay informed of current releases is to check into what music reviewers are covering. These are definitely noteworthy, considering that reviewers have to dedicate a certain amount of time on each piece to form an opinion on what they’re listening to. while you certainly will not always agree with these opinions, 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

as the grunge rockers enter their third decade, pearl Jam (pJ) seeks to find a bal­ance between their punk rock impulses and their matured, sentimental side. recorded in two separate sessions, their album “lightning bolt” veers sharply be­tween both sides while pushing the band forward in a new direction. 
The album opens up strongly with the song “getaway,” which has the classic pearl Jam feel about it. Filled with rocking guitar riffs, eddie vedder’s passionate singing and an uplifting beat, it is a very solid way to start the album. 
“lightning bolt” kicks things up a notch almost immediately with “mind your manners,” one of the most notable songs on the album. This lead single is much more intense and full of primal energy than a number of other songs on the album. it has a dead kennedys garage-rock swing and is a prime example that pearl Jam can still rock even this late in their career. it is as punk as the band has been in 20 years. 
after that, the band makes an interest­ing leap with “my Father’s son,” a track that following along with them informs you and opens up a deeper dialogue of discussion and evaluation with the music. 
additionally, finding out which review ag­gregates focus on the specific styles of mu­sic you’re most interested in — for instance, complex and XXl covering hip-hop, spin covering mainstream/alternative, pitchfork covering independent and rolling stones covering crap — you can narrow down your searches to exactly what you want to hear. 
2) Use record labels’ history of artists 
seeing what record labels your favorite bands and acts are — or were — signed to can give you an indication of what type of music the label looks for and specializes in. if a certain label has a past of getting bands with sounds you love, check out some of the other acts on the label, and if the label is making contracts with any new acts. 
For example, if you happened to catch cloud nothings’ intense show here last year 
— which you absolutely should have, but you probably didn’t — and liked their 90s­alternative-influenced sound, poke around with carpark records and you’ll find speedy ortiz, who put out an equally angst-ridden, 
quickly skips between intense and leisurely parts that creates an intriguing mixture that is reflective of the tightrope act of the album as a whole. 
by far the best song on this album is “sirens.” vedder’s majestic warbling will make fans of classic pJ hits like “yellow ledbetter” and “black” absolutely swoon. it shows that sentimental acoustic side of pearl Jam that we don’t nearly hear enough. The lyrics are surprisingly deep compared to those on the rest of the album, raising concerns of mortality in a way that could not have possibly been done in pJ’s younger years. The band excellently combines a shy, echoing piano with smooth, rolling guitar riffs to make a song that is positively bound to go down as one of the biggest hits from pJ this decade. 
From here, “lightning bolt” rapidly looses its spark, killing all momentum built up by replacing any deep, emotional feelings with dull, generic dad-rock that might have been slightly relevant a couple decades ago.  These songs in the middle of the album feel like filler content, employing ham-fisted lyrics and dissonant riffs that nickleback could have written. “infallible,” “pendulum” and “swallowed whole” feel equally excellent 90s-alternative inspired album this year. 
3) Do some linked searching on the Internet 
say you reignited your love affair with the two French geniuses known as daft punk after this year’s release of “random access memories.”  doing a little digging around wikipedia or spotify in that genre might lead to the discovery of another duo mak­ing dance steeped in classic house tropes, disclosure, and their debut “settle,” per­haps one of the best albums to come out this year.  equally, a couple of clicks from a passion pit page on either can lead to the ex­keyboardist’s new garage rock band Team spirit and their high energy ep released this year.  in this age, with the technology avail­able, its never been easier to look for music that will satisfy your tastes, through search­es by genre, influences or even personnel involved. 
4) Still, don’t neglect local music scenes 
even though it is a lot easier now to come across any type of music you could imagine 
empty, lacking the beautifully raw emo­tions signature of the band, and show signs that the band is aging and could be losing its touch. 
Thankfully, the album does not end on such a sour note but picks up with the ex­tremely solid and definitely notable “let the records play.” This track has an almost bluesy, classic rock feel that is rather un­anticipated coming from pearl Jam. even though the band may be aging, songs like this show that pearl Jam is maturing and capable of branching out as they grow older. 
“sleeping by myself” clearly started as one of eddie vedder’s ukulele jams that was expanded and developed in a way that works for the whole band. it is a highly en­joyable tune that teeters onto the slower, sentimental side of the album. “yellow moon” is also one of the dreamier tracks on “lightning bolt, but by no means will this song put the listener to sleep. “lightning bolt” winds down with “Future days,” which is honestly rather mundane. it is surely a conclusion, but is not the fairytale ending one might hope for. 
The days of the raw, angst-filled brutal­ity of “Ten” and “versus” are long gone for pearl Jam, but in their place pearl Jam through the beauty of the internet, there are still a lot of lesser-known, underground acts that could be gaining ground in your area. so be on the look out for that band you could later brag about seeing in a small bar or inti­mate club just before they blew up. This used to be one of the only ways, coupled with tun­ing in to your local radio stations, to discover music before the internet made it so easy to spread even the smallest releases world­wide.  while people debate whether the term “underground” is still relevant, genre movements by pockets of similarly minded outfits still crop up all over the place.  This could be lo-fi surf, punk rock bands from la, heartland revival, folksy acts from Jersey or a collective of southern rappers from atlanta. 
at times looking into and keeping up with the bevy of music available at your fingertips can be as time consuming and exhausting as a job or schoolwork. however, if you are intent on finding something new, some­thing to quench your unrelenting tastes, your efforts will reap major rewarded in all aspects of your search. 
Contact Matt McMahon at    mcmaho7@nd.edu 
has brought to light a more mature, sen­timental side that works when the effort is there. This album shows that the band has found a strong balance between its fun arena rocker and softer sides, but at times “lightning bolt” loses direction and falters. The whole album is definitely worth a listen to see what it’s all about, but not necessarily everything is worth saving for later. 
“lightning bolt” is currently available for streaming on iTunes and will release every­where Tuesday, october 15. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at                          jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Lightning Bolt” 
Pearl Jam 
Label: Monkeywrench, Republic 
Tracks: “Sirens,” “My Father’s Son,” “Mind Your Manners” 
If you like: Soundgarden, Temple of the Dog 


MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


By MADDIE DALY 
associate scene editor 
Scandal 

out of all the politic-themed Tv shows out there these days, “scandal” is the most realistic, intriguing and addicting. The show centers around the career and personal life of superwoman­esque, intelligent and efficient woman olivia pope, played by kerry washington. From her outfits to her attitude to her work ethic, olivia pope is basically perfect; i’m pretty sure every girl who watches the show wants to be her when they grow up. after leaving her job at the white house, pope starts her own crisis management firm, olivia pope and associates, and works to keep politicians public appear­ances as clean as possible, which requires sometimes dangerous at­tempts to hide illegal activity. on top of political drama, the show also adds a twist in olivia’s personal life. she is unmarried and in love with Fitzgerald grant who just happens to be the president of the united states. Their affair stirs up, well, scandal in the sec­ond season when the pregnant First lady finds out about the affair and demands a divorce. The president is forced to choose between his public appearance, job and country or his love for olivia pope. “scandal” is the perfect show to watch during the government shut­down since it shows what really goes on behind closed doors in the white house. 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 
National Treasure 
if you’re looking for a high quality political disaster thriller, look no further than disney’s “national Treasure.” This timeless american classic follows historian ben gates, played by the always wonderful nicolas cage, as he attempts to stop the forces of evil from finding the lost trea­sures of our nation’s forefathers. The struggle quickly intensifies when gates has to steal the declaration of independence in order to solve the mystery and prevent the bad guys from tak­ing it first, leading to a nationwide manhunt for gates led by the Fbi. This film has all the hall­marks of a classic nicolas cage film: extremely loud explosions, mumbled dialogues, unrealis­tic car chases and a plethora of cage’s trademark anger and intensity. also look out for the sequel, in which cage ups the ante by stealing not only the declaration of independence, but also the president himself, a disaster even the Tea party couldn’t conceive. 
By JUAN CANCIO 
scene writer 
Dr. Strangelove 
The recent government shutdown reminds me of the crazy shenanigans in the film “dr. strangelove.” The plot of this movie is centered on the worst possi­ble mistake any government could have ever made, but thankfully never did. For any individuals who are not familiar, the movie showcases a crazy army general who takes advantage of the united states nuclear first-strike capabilities to attack russia dur­ing the cold war. The movie revolves around the united states government’s attempt to remove the threat of an all-out nuclear war. it’s a political scien­tist’s worst nightmare turned reality: a chain reac­tion that leads to mutually assured destruction. The movie shows us how easy it would have been for a corrupt military authority to guarantee the end of the human race. This truly funny and witty movie tinged with some dark humor ultimately reveals how close the human race came to ending itself only a few short decades ago — and how close we could be again. 

By JUAN CANCIO 
scene writer 

This past saturday, i was able to finally go to the movie theatre for the first time since i arrived on cam­pus this semester. There were many films i wanted to see, but only one of them promised to be a lightheart­ed comedy and so i decided to watch Joseph gordon­levitt’s new film “don Jon”; it is the actor’s first attempt at starring, writing and directing a movie. 
“don Jon” focuses on a young man as he goes through the process of transitioning from being a club-lurking player to a more mature version of him­self that is actively trying to look for a meaningful loving relationship. This journey of growth takes Jon through the difficult process of trying to break away from his addiction to pornography and empty super­ficial sex. 
although the film offers a multitude of jokes about masturbation, sex and the never-ending hunt for un­adulterated sexual adventures, there’s much more to “don Jon.” a deeper meaning can be found if you don’t let yourself be too distracted by the visceral on­slaught of suggestive pseudo-pornographic images that compose an albeit large portion of the movie. 
it is understandable that mr. gordon-levitt felt the need to use some of this graphic material, but at times there seems to be way too much of it in the movie. That having been said, maybe the whole point of in­cluding so much of it was to make it blatantly appar­ent that this character was struggling with a strong addiction that enjoyed an unrelenting grip over him. however, it did seem to distract from the overall ex­perience of the movie. without giving too much away, the journey from his shallow view of life to a deeper more meaningful perspective is obviously aided by a female counterpart; therein lies the more insightful aspect of the movie. 
The main character is forced to really look at him­self for what he has truly become, and realize that he doesn’t know nearly as much about leading a good life than he previously thought. There are a few details of this movie that lead the audience to realize it is ac­tually a criticism of certain aspects of contemporary society. 
The most obvious criticism of modern culture is the main character’s younger sister who is always featured texting and fiddling on her phone and not taking part in the real world: an obvious, yet truth­ful, representation of an unfortunate trend in today’s youth. 
instead of leading the audience on the painfully overdone template of your basic romantic comedy, this movie offers an interesting reinvention of the genre. not often is this genre used as a medium for criticism, but gordon-levitt definitely makes a solid attempt to have his movie prod at important issues. it was an enjoyable, funny ride that in the end gave us a mirror to view ourselves in. if you can bear open endings, i would suggest it for those looking to spend their time enjoying a funny, awkward experience with the rest of the south bend moviegoers. 
Contact Juan Cancio at jcancio@nd.edu 
“Don Jon” 
Director: Joseph Gordon-Levitt 
Starring: Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Scarlett Johansson 
If you like: “Silver Linings Playbook,” “The Way, Way Back,” and graphic content 

MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY | nFl 

Bucs infected by losing attitude 

Mary Green 
sports writer 
you think you’ve got it bad, giants and Jaguars fans? 
Try being a bucs fan. 
sure, your teams are winless, and sure, there are rumors float­ing around that one of those franchises might not only relo­cate, but might move to a dif­ferent country altogether. well, i’ll admit, life is pretty rough if you’re a Jags fan. 
but at least you don’t have to cheer for the yucks. 
This is the team that won the super bowl only 10 years ago, with one of the best defenses in the league year after year. 
and now? Tampa bay’s de­fense is still statistically one of the top in the nFl, but it gives up points when it can’t afford to do so. in losses to the Jets, cardinals and saints, the bucs yielded game-winning scores after the two-minute warning — not the way you want to end your sunday afternoon. 
but even taking those losses into consideration, the worst part of being a bucs fan is still the circus of off-field controversies. 
it started off with the tamest point of contention, but one that nonetheless irks fans in the cigar city: the home-game blackouts. 
now, this isn’t entirely the bucs’ fault. The nFl has a rule stating games are blacked out in the television market of a home team if that team does not sell out its games 72 hours prior to kickoff. 
Florida is really hot from about march to october, and it’s really, really hot in september at the beginning of the nFl season. no one wants to sit outside in the beating sun and a cloud of hu­midity to watch a football game, especially one with a mediocre team. They want to watch the bucs at home, in the air condi­tioning and out of the heat. 
however, if fans don’t come to the game, they can’t watch it at home because of the blackout rule. at least one positive of this is that hometown fans can’t see the quarter-empty stadium in high definition. 
The national media likes to draw attention to the fact that every week, the bucs game is off the air in the Tampa bay area. no local fans watching games is not the best way for a team to make headlines. 
The ongoing blackout contro­versy was the hottest off-field topic for the bucs for a few years, so they must have decided to spice things up this season by releasing mrsa in their facilities. 
yes, that’s right, the antibiotic-resistant staph bacteria were found in the team’s practice facility and locker room and in­fected not one, not two, but three players, kicker lawrence Tynes, guard carl nicks and cornerback Johnthan banks. 
after the bucs admitted the presence of mrsa in their facili­ties in august and named Tynes and nicks as the two players known to be infected but recov­ering, Tynes’s wife called out the organization on Twitter, saying her husband wasn’t responding as well to treatment as the team claimed. 
The story took another turn last week when Tampa bay re­vealed a third player, banks, was infected. it’s one thing to say the injury bug hit the locker room, but it’s a whole new story when that bug is a deadly bacterium. 
so now there are blackouts, mrsa and a kicker’s wife in­volved, so what’s the only thing missing from the team’s smor­gasbord of ridiculousness? 
drugs, of course, and that’s what the bucs got in the Josh Freeman saga. 
The drama started when head coach greg schiano demoted Freeman from starter to backup quarterback and then didn’t activate him in his first post-demotion game. The trade ru­mors began when Freeman said wanted out of Tampa and gen­eral manager mark dominick returned the shots, saying none of the 31 other nFl teams want­ed him. 
where do the drugs come in? about the time i developed a migraine from trying to keep up with this madness. 
somehow, word got out that Freeman voluntarily enrolled in the first stage of the nFl’s drug program after testing positive for a banned substance. The now-viking said he accidently took ritalin instead of adderall to treat his adhd, and he didn’t have the league’s approval to take the former prescription. 
he said he willingly submitted to multiple drug tests through­out the season and did not test positive again, but the story still came to light. now, the nFlpa is investigating if the bucs pos­sibly released the news to start a smear campaign against their former disgruntled quarterback. 
so, to all you fans disappoint­ed in your team’s start this sea­son, it could be worse. you could have a team with enough drama to start a kardashian-spinoff. 
and what’s the next chapter in this absurd saga? i couldn’t tell you — that migraine still hasn’t gone away. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NFL | denver 35, Jacksonville 19 
high-flying broncos struggle with lowly Jaguars 
Associated Press 

denver — For an uncom­fortably long time sunday, it was a matter of “if” for peyton manning and the denver broncos, not “how many.” 
Their supposedly lopsided matchup against the winless Jacksonville Jaguars turned into quite a tussle for much of a surreal afternoon. not un­til knowshon moreno ran for his third touchdown did the broncos have any sense of security. 
denver won 35-19 but fell well short of covering that re­cord 27-point betting line in las vegas. 
manning went 28 for 42 for 295 yards in his least-impres­sive showing of the season. his two touchdown passes gave him 22 on the year, a record for an nFl quarterback through six games. 
he also lost a pair of fumbles on slippery exchanges from center and threw his second in­terception of the season, which linebacker paul posluszny re­turned 59 yards for a touchdown to pull the Jaguars within 14-12 before the half. 
at that point, it was clear this would be more than another stat-padding day for manning and co. That feeling was re­inforced when chad henne led the Jaguars on an 80-yard touchdown drive against the banged-up broncos (6-0) to make it 21-19 after manning opened the third quarter with a Td drive of his own. 
Justin blackmon had 14 catches for 190 yards for Jacksonville, which fell to 0-6 but gave the broncos a harder time on offense than any team they’ve faced this season. 
The Jags gave up very few cheap yards, and were it not for a series of odd decisions and untimely mistakes, this one might have been even closer. 
it began during Jacksonville’s first possession, when coach gus bradley called a fake punt the broncos diagnosed per­fectly, leaving them only 27 yards from their first score — a 3-yard pass from manning to Julius Thomas. denver’s sec­ond touchdown came after the Jaguars stopped manning on third-and-long but had that nullified by a personal foul on defensive end andre branch. 
There was a muffed snap on a field goal attempt, bradley’s failed decision to go for 2 after posluszny’s interception return, and a pass interference penalty that helped denver on its open­ing drive of the third quarter. in all, Jacksonville did enough silly things to lose despite racking up 362 yards in offense. 
henne threw for 303 yards against denver’s league-worst pass defense. The broncos wel­comed back champ bailey, who found himself on the island against blackmon for much of the afternoon. 
but the broncos also lost right tackle orlando Franklin to a knee injury in the third quarter — adding another question mark as they head to indianapolis for manning’s re­turn to play his old team. 
among other things, that game is being billed as denver’s toughest test to date. Turns out, the Jaguars gave the broncos plenty to sweat over. 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | usTa/iTa midwesT regional championships, bronco inviTe 
Irish split up for weekend 
Observer Staff Report 

The irish split up this week­end, while three players travelled to the bronco invitational in kalamazoo, mich., while other irish players continued play at the usTa/iTa midwest regional championships at the university of michigan in ann arbor, mich. 
Twenty-three teams par­ticipated in the regional championships, which start­ed oct. 10 and runs through Tuesday. 
no. 35 irish senior britney sanders had a first-round bye as the second seed in the main singles draw and beat junior lok sze leung of northwestern 6-0, 6-0 in the second round. sanders fell to michigan senior brooke bolender 6-1, 4-6, 6-4 in the third round. 
no. 117 irish senior Jennifer kellner received a first-round bye in the singles main draw and 

FOR RENT 

Great location. Loft apart­ment 4 rent 2 block E of cam­pus. $450/mo + electric. 
For pics and details sha­ronisback4ever@yahoo.com 
defeated northwestern senior nida hamilton 6-3, 6-1 in the second round. 
irish Freshmen mary closs and monica robinson also com­peted in the main singles draw for the irish. closs advanced to the second round before she lost to illinois junior melissa kopinski, and robinson made it to the third round. 
kellner and robinson ad­vanced furthest in the doubles main draw for notre dame. The duo defeated freshmen sandy niehaus and gabriella desantis of ohio state 8-6 and juniors patricia Fargas and rebeca mitrea of depaul 8-3 on their way to the quarterfinals. kellner and robinson lost to michigan’s national no. 3 pairing of junior emina bektas and bolender in the quarterfinals by the score of 8-4. 
sanders and irish junior molly o’koniewski lost 8-4 to kopinski and senior allison Falkin from illinois in the third round. The pairing of irish senior Julie sabacinski and closs also lost 8-5 in the third round, falling to michigan’s pairing of sophomore robit yurovsky and junior sarah lee. 
irish junior katherine white, sophomore alaina roberts and sophomore darby mountford competed this weekend at the bronco invitational, hosted by western michigan. The irish have split up for tournaments this fall to allowe all 12 players on the roster to gain experience during the short fall season be­fore spring competition begins. 
white was undefeated in her two singles matches, and won all three of her doubles match­es while partnering with both mountford and roberts at times. roberts and mountford each won one of their two singles matches at the invitational. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
USC-ND apt 4 rent.  USC - RV parking still available. 2 blks E  
of campus. Pricing/pix/details sharonis- 
Sleeps 6. Fully furnished.  back4ever@yahoo.com  
2 blocks E of campus.  FOR SALE  
For pricing/pix/details sha- USC 4 tix  for  sale.  
r o ni s b ac k 4 e v e r @ y a h o o.c o m  Call 609-471-9511  



WOMEN’S SWIMMING | auburn 180, nd 120; indiana 155, nd 145 
Irish drop dual meets 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
in a long weekend of com­petition, the irish took sec­ond place in the dennis stark invitational on Friday before falling to both auburn and indiana in a dual meet saturday. 
The irish (0-2) won four events Friday, taking the top spot in the 800-yard freestyle relay, the 300-yard breast­stroke relay, and sweeping the diving events.  Junior diver allison casareto and sophomore diver lindsey streepy won the 1-meter diving relay before streepy and sophomore diver emma gaboury took the top prize in the 3-meter synchronized diving event. 
Junior breaststroker emma reaney said she thought the irish came out strong, con­sidering it was their first competition. 
“we’ve been working on the details from the begin­ning of the season and i think it definitely showed up this weekend,” reaney said. “it usually takes a while to get in the swing of competi­tion, but i think we jumped right in and hit the ground running on Friday night.” 
The irish lost some of 

paid adverTisemenT 

their momentum saturday. despite reaney’s first-place finishes in the 100-yard breaststroke and the 100­yard butterfly, the irish couldn’t quite match their competitors. They fell 180­120 to auburn (2-0) and had a tight 155-145 loss to indiana (1-1). 
“both teams swam well,” reaney said. “we were clos­est with indiana for both meets. They pretty much killed us at our dual meet last year, so the fact we were so incredibly close to beat­ing them yesterday is a great sign of improvement for us.” 
reaney said the irish were neck-and-neck with the hoosiers until the final relay. 
“we fought hard to beat indiana the whole way, but things didn’t quite end up in our favor,” reaney said. 
in the dual meet the irish again dominated in div­ing, casareto and streepy snatching the top two spots on the 1-meter dive and streepy finished in first in the 3-meter. 
bowen said despite the losses she’s excited to see how far the irish can go with their season. 
“we did a great job com­ing together to support each other,” bowen said. “it really showed how competitive we could be and how much fun we could have doing it.” 
after such a long weekend of competition, the irish will have plenty of time to rest before their next competi­tion against purdue on nov. 1. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

MEN’S GOLF 
crooked stick to host 14-team field 

By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
Following a three-week lay­off, notre dame returns to action today at the crooked stick intercollegiate, hosted by indiana at crooked stick golf club in carmel, ind. 
“[The break] came at a good time,” irish coach Jim kubinski said. “we were able to play two tournaments, get some compe­tition under our belts and then assess our games and work on the areas that needed our focus.” 
senior niall platt, coming off a 12th place finish to lead the irish at the Fighting irish gridiron golf classic, headlines the starting lineup for the irish. he is joined by freshman matt rushton, who, after tying with platt for sixth at the gopher invitational on sept. 8 and 9, finished 27th at the gridiron golf classic. rounding out the starting lineup for the irish are junior Tyler wingo, sophomore cory sciupider and freshman liam cox. 
“i thought our qualifying tournament at home to earn spots in our lineup this week was as good as any we’ve had in my time at notre dame,” kubinski said. “we had six dif­ferent players post rounds in the 60s this past week, includ­ing a 66 and multiple 67’s. … i think we’ll bring out some of that good play on the road this week.” 
kubinski said crooked stick, which played host to the 1991 pga championship as well as last year’s pga Tour Fedex cup bmw championship, will provide an “exciting venue” and “outstanding test” for the irish. The course will be set up to play at a long 7,300 yards, but kubinski was more concerned with crooked stick’s mental test and its greens rather than its length. 
“designer pete dye makes players think,” kubinski said, referring to the course’s archi­tect. “The greens are reason­ably big, but it’s important to hit the ball onto the correct ar­eas or face a difficult attempt to two-putt. [crooked stick] is fair though. players enjoy a strong but fair test.” 
in addition to the tough test crooked stick presents, the irish will also have a loaded field to compete against this week. The 14-team field includes no. 6 georgia and no. 25 arkansas, as well as Florida state. The seminoles will provide the irish with their first look of the year at acc competition. 
The irish enter the crooked stick intercollegiate coming off a 7th place finish at the Fighting irish gridiron golf classic, their sole home tournament of the year. 
The two-day 54-hole crooked stick invitational be­gins monday at 8:45 a.m. The first two rounds will be played monday, with the final 18 holes slated for Tuesday. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S SWIMMING | dennis sTark relays 
irish finish third at stark relays 

By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
The irish dove into their 2013­2014 campaign with a pair of top-tier matchups this week­end by welcoming perennial national contenders michigan and auburn to the rolfs aquatic center for back-to-back meets. notre dame (0-2) faced the defending national champion wolverines (3-0), as well as auburn (1-1), cleveland state and valparaiso on Friday in the annual dennis stark relays followed by a tri-meet against michigan and auburn on saturday afternoon. 
notre dame finished behind the seasoned wolverines and Tigers in both contests. The irish took third Friday with 174 points in the dennis stark relays, fin­ishing behind michigan’s 190 and auburn’s 186, and ahead of cleveland state’s 120. valparaiso (0-1) finished last with 82 points. saturday’s meet saw the irish drop both matchups, losing to michigan 201-99 and auburn 153-147. The matchup with auburn was particularly tight, coming down to the 400-yard freestyle relay, the last event of the meet. 
“i was very pleased with the results of this weekend,” irish coach Tim welsh said. we swam better [saturday] than we did [Friday]. we raced tough and competed all weekend, the energy throughout both compe­titions was wonderful.” 
despite its losses, the team produced two individual win­ners saturday. senior Frank dyer, the first all-american in the team’s history, placed first in the 100-yard freestyle with a time of 44.34 and ju­nior Zach stephens won the 200-yard breaststroke, touch­ing in at 1:59.91. dyer coupled his first-place finish with two runner-up finishes in the 200­yard freestyle and the 200-yard butterfly. stephens finished sec­ond in the 100-yard breaststroke with a time of 55.59 and third in the 200-yard im, clocking in at 1:49:43. 
on the diving side, freshman Joseph coumos won the 1-meter and 3-meter boards, with scores of 328.25 and 354.90, respec­tively, in his irish debut. irish junior nick nemetz finished third in the 3-meter, while irish freshman James lichtenstein and nemetz finished fourth and fifth, respectively, in the 1-meter for the irish. 
The weekend’s events opened notre dame’s season schedule with a high standard of compe­tition. Friday’s contest saw eight dennis stark relays records bro­ken, including two pool records, all by the wolverines. in notre dame’s inaugural acc season, the schedule is littered with some of the strongest teams in the country. 
“we want to grow to become the best, and the only way to do that is by facing and beating the best,” welsh said. “i thought this weekend served as a good mea­suring stick against some of the best teams in the country.” 
notre dame will not have an­other home competition at the rolfs aquatic center for another month, when michigan state visits for a dual meet on nov. 
15. The irish will be back in ac­tion on oct. 25, when they face air Force in a dual meet at the air Force aquatic center. notre dame will spend fall break training in colorado to pre­pare for the challenges posed by swimming at such high altitudes. 
“i expect that week to be ex­tremely fatiguing,” welsh said. “we have never trained at al­titude before so the air Force meet will be a whole different situation.” 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhilliar1@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF | ruTh’s chris Tarheel inviTaTional 
Campbell leads way at invite 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 

The irish finished 17th out of 18 teams in the three-day ruth’s chris Tarheel invitational, held at the unc Finley course in chapel hill, n.c. with a team score of 902, 38 over par. 
The three-day tournament, which featured 11 teams ranked in the top 25, left little opportunity for error. The irish got off to a lack­luster start on the weekend, scor­ing a 17-over 305 on Friday, which left them placed 18th out of the 18­team field. 
“we really dug ourselves in a bit of a hole early, and had the oppor­tunity both saturday and sunday to get ourselves out, but we were not able to capitalize,” irish coach susan holt said. 
leading the pack for notre dame was sophomore Talia campbell, who shot a one-over 73, placing 22nd in the individual field of 96. campbell would con­tinue to climb the leaderboard throughout the weekend, shoot­ing an even par 72 on saturday and one-over 73 on sunday. she ended the invitational tied for 19th, finishing two-over par with a 218 for the weekend. 
Junior ashley armstrong had a strong showing saturday, tying campbell for a team-best even-par 72, which left her tied for 32nd in the invitational. armstrong shot a five-over 77 to round out the weekend, dropping 15 spots and finishing tied for 47th with an eight-over 224. Freshman Jordan Ferreira moved nine spots up the leaderboard sunday, fin­ishing tied for 68th at 229 and 13­over par for the weekend. senior kristina nhim and junior kelli oride rounded out the squad’s fin­ish, nhim finished tied for 80th at 16-over-par, while oride placed 89th at 20-over-par. 

“moving forward as a team we know we can play better,” holt said. “That comes from making putts for birdie down the stretch, and taking advantage when we are striking the ball well like the way we were this weekend.” 
duke university set the pace for the weekend. The blue devils’ captured the top spot after play saturday and never looked back, finishing at seven-under-par team score of 857 for the weekend. duke was the only team to finish below par. vanderbilt placed second and 
paid adverTisemenT 
oklahoma finished third with scores of 868 and 871, respective­ly. Though the irish finished 45 strokes behind the champion blue devils,holt said her team remains undaunted as they move forward with the season.
 “you don’t know how good you are until you face the best,” she said. “i know we can play better. That is the frustrating part, that we know that we did not play our best.” 
Theirish return to both the links and the state of north carolina on oct. 25, when they participate in the three-day landfall Tradition tournament, held in wilmington, 
n.c. The event will feature re­matches with several teams from the Tarheel invitational, including duke, north carolina and wake Forest. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhilliar1@nd.edu 




ND VOLLEYBALL | clemson 3, nd 0; nd 3, georgia Tech 0 
Irish shutout halts seven-match losing streak 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
after suffering their seventh-straight loss Friday when they fell 3-0 to clemson, the irish bounced back saturday to sweep georgia Tech 3-0 and snatch their first acc victory. 
against clemson (9-8, 3-3 acc), the irish (7-10, 1-5) got out to a quick start, staying neck­and-neck with the Tigers before falling 27-25 in the first game. 
“we had a good start if you look at the box scores,” junior hitter Toni alugbue said. “we just didn’t start with enough urgency.” 
in the next two games, the irish were able to hang with the Tigers but in the end failed to close. They lost the second game 25-22 and the final 25-21. senior libero andrea mchugh said the biggest struggle in each of notre dame’s two opening games was blocking the strength of the clemson hitters. 
“we didn’t block a ball until the third game, which creates problems for us,” mchugh said. “but we also didn’t dig too many balls and we must produce more digs overall.” 
mchugh said she saw a huge improvement in both the de­fense and the team focus saturday when the irish took on georgia Tech. 
“we finally relaxed and just played volleyball,” mchugh said. “we allowed ourselves to be aggressive and work hard ev­ery point.” 
in their second game of the weekend, notre dame had a slow start in game one. Trailing 7-5 early on, the irish took the lead with five straight points and didn’t lose it for the remain­der of the set, winning 25-20. in their second set, the irish struggled to hold off the yellow Jackets (7-11, 1-5), but man­aged to secure a 26-24 victory after falling behind on three-straight kills by the georgia Tech offense. 
To finish their weekend, the irish battled from a quick 5-1 deficit in game three against georgia Tech. The yellow Jackets controlled the offense for much of the set, pulling ahead 12-7. but the irish came back with a 9-1 run to take a 16-13 lead, an advantage they never lost despite ties at 17, 18 and 23. The irish hung on to a 25-23 victory. 


alugbue said improved block­ing was key to the irish win, which was their first acc vic­tory and broke a seven-game losing streak. 
“we decided at our session that morning we needed to get at least three blocks a set to win,” alugbue said. “That’s 
paid adverTisemenT 

what we did and that helped us to victory.” 
mchugh said the victory, which ends a six-game skid for the irish, can serve as a jump-ing-off point heading into the remainder of their year. 
“it feels really good to break the losing streak,” mchugh said. “no one likes losing. we have been working really hard as a team to get a win and now we have to start a winning streak that will carry out the rest of the season.” 
The irish will get back to ac­tion by taking on top acc oppo­nent miami at home Friday at 7 p.m.  
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

senior right wing mike voran was saves early when we needed goal four minutes into the second over the shoulder of slubowski 
Hockey 

called for tripping and at 4:01 se-them.” period. Junior right wing peter and into the net. slubowski had 
conTinued From page 16 
shots i have seen from our team since i have been here.” 
both hinostroza and wuthrich had one goal and one assist on the night, while Taker racked up two assists. hinostroza received a crisp pass from sophomore de­fenseman eric Johnson, and one-timed the puck past slubowski into the upper left corner to give the irish a 2-0 lead at 2:13 in the third. The irish picked up their second power-play goal at 13:12, when wuthrich passed the puck to Taker at the point, who took a wrist shot to the front of the net, where costello got a stick on it and deflected it in for the 3-0 lead. 
with 4:43 left in the game, nior defenseman kevin lind was called for slashing to give western michigan a 5-3 man advantage. The broncos pulled slubowski for a 3-1 advantage. The irish held strong, killing the first penalty. senior defenseman robbie russo then blocked a shot and deposit­ed the puck down the ice into the back of the empty net for a short­handed goal and a 4-0 lead. 
“we’ve barely had a chance to practice our five-on-three pen­alty killing,” Jackson said. “That’s where having veteran players who have done it before helps. They were committed to block­ing shots. i was very happy for summerhays to get the shutout because he made some great 
saturday’s game, which took place in front of a sold out crowd of 4,114 in kalamazoo, was simi­lar to Friday’s matchup. The irish scored early in the second period and then netted two insurance goals in the third period. 
“it was a more challenging and gritty game [on saturday],” Jackson said. “They came out strong. we weathered the storm in the early part of the game, got through the first and scored from there in the second.” 
western michigan outshot the irish 9-8 in the first period, but the irish retaliated in the sec­ond with a 20-1 shot advantage. irish sophomore center Thomas dipauli netted notre dame’s first schneider was able to force a turn­over in the offensive third and passed the puck back to Taker. Taker hit dipauli with a pass, and dipauli put it home for a 1-0 irish lead. Jackson said the goal came from the extraordinary effort of schneider and hinostroza. 

“it was good to see that from schneider,” Jackson said. “we need to finish on all of those op­portunities. guys need to make plays. it comes from the breakout, when we don’t have the puck.” 
The irish took a 2-0 early in the third, just 57 seconds into the final period. Taker, who had four as­sists on the weekend, took a shot from the point and sophomore left wing sam herr deflected it 38 saves on saturday. The irish were 1-of-9 on the power play saturday and 2-of-9 Friday. 
“we need to capitalize on the power play, “Jackson said. “we have only practiced it two or three times, but it was good to see us get one.” 
notre dame picked up its sec­ond empty netter on the weekend when lind posited a goal to ice the game and seal the 3-0 irish victory with 46 seconds left. 
The irish next host michigan Tech at the compton Family ice arena on Friday at 7:35 p.m. and sunday at 2:05 p.m. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
The hokies, meanwhile, man­aged only one shot on goal, deliv­ered by senior midfielder robert alberti in the 14th minute. 
The irish didn’t have to stop many shots, but the defense looked sharp, clark said. senior goalkeeper patrick wall had just one save, but stayed active in other ways he said. 
“wall had what i like to call ‘timely interceptions,’” clark said. “For example, coming off his line for crosses. he looked sharp without lots of saves. he had to be on his toes.” 
notre dame kept the ball in virginia Tech’s territory, espe­cially in the first half. The irish forced eight corner kicks in the first period as the hokies failed to clear the ball consistently against notre dame’s pressing offense. clark said the irish of­fense looked good in the first half and played to win in the second. 
“we had about three or four [corner kicks] in a row at one point,” clark said. “They couldn’t clear the ball … generally we did good offense in the first half, and we looked like a team that want­ed to win in the last 45 seconds.” 
cicciarelli unleashed two of his three shots on goal during the final 10 minutes of the game. renfro saved cicciarelli’s shot in the 80th minute, and the for­ward’s shot in the 88th minute sailed wide. 
renfro saved seven shots against notre dame, who at­tempted 23 total shots against virginia Tech’s 13. 
The irish and hokies played in front of a large crowd, and notre dame learned how tough it can be to win a road game, clark said. The irish will face four ranked opponents, both from the acc and out of conference, in their final six scheduled games this season. 
“The main thing is that first of all, it’s very difficult to go on the road and win games,” clark said. “but they seemed very motivated to win the game all the way up to the 90th minute. i think the team is dealing with acc travel really well. we still have four very dif­ficult acc games and tough non-league games to play.” 
next up, notre dame clashes with no. 14 northwestern at alumni stadium at 7 p.m. on Tuesday. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 

virginia Tech’s goal in the final minutes. 
notre dame’s best scor­ing opportunity came with two minutes remaining off a free kick from freshman midfielder morgan andrews. andrews’s kick lasered to the front of the goal, where junior forward lauren bohaboy shot it into the outstretched arms of hokies senior keeper dayle colpitts. 
“[colpitts] had to make a little bit of a diving save, but i think lauren didn’t get ahold They converted [their chanc-streak when they meet duke of it well,” waldrum said. “so es], and we didn’t convert on sunday at alumni stadium. even after they scored, we had ours.” an opportunity to tie the game The irish will look to bring an Contact Mary Green at up, but that’s the difference. end to their four-game winless mgreen8@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: sacha baron cohen, 42; kate walsh, 46; kelly preston, 51; marie osmond, 54. 
Happy Birthday: you’ll experience plenty of professional changes that will en­able you to explore new connections and opportunities. emotional problems will surface due to family responsibilities that must be handled quickly to avoid interference with professional goals. nurture a personal relationship and build a strong bond, and you will get the support you need when faced with time constraints. your numbers are 3, 8, 12, 24, 28, 31, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): reconnect with someone from your past for in­formation that can help you advance. Take part in something that’s fun or can help you make personal improvements, but don’t overdo it. it’s time to make a move and get things done. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): keep your schedule simple. emotional problems with an acquaintance will escalate. stick close to home and focus on fixing up your surroundings and discussing future plans with someone you love and respect. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): keep things moving along. getting odd jobs out of the way will make you feel good and help you avoid criticism. love and romance are heightened and spending time with someone special will improve your relationship. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): plan to have some fun. organize an eventful, enter­taining day for yourself and the people you enjoy being with the most. don’t let emotional issues ruin your plans. ignore the differences you have with others. a creative endeavor has potential. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): keep the peace at home regardless of what it takes to do so. someone will try to interfere in your plans. Take care of responsibilities before someone complains. a change in a relationship with someone special will be beneficial. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): concentrate on learning something that will increase your chance to improve your life. don’t let a poor relationship with someone ruin your day. make changes at home that will ensure you protect your assets and your emotional well-being. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): consider what you can offer your community or a company you’d like to work for. making calls and discussing your plans with someone who has experience will lead to a positive recommendation. don’t make a rash decision, but prepare to make changes. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Forge ahead, expand your interests and friend­ships, and look for ways to use your knowledge and insight more efficiently. a change related to someone from your past will be an unexpected surprise. protect your home and family. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): stay on top of your game. go with the flow and be ready to leap into action if someone offers you something. Take on a challenge, but don’t risk your position, reputation or hard-earned cash. stick to basics. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t make changes based on what you hear from others. do your research and offer suggestions, and you will make a dif­ference to those less knowledgeable. keep your emotions out of the equation, or you may lose sight of your goals. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): an emotional situation will arise with a friend if you cannot come to an agreement about plans you are working on together. step back and listen to what’s being said, and you will find a workable solution. love is on the rise. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take care of debts and look at your investments, assets and means to make your money grow. expand your friendships and in­terests and consider what you can do to put a stop to those who take advantage of your generosity. 

JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip MEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, virginia Tech 0 

Last-minute victory 
Shipp connects with winner in 90th minute against Hokies, helps Irish remain unbeaten late in season 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
unbeaten notre dame captured another close vic­tory Friday, when irish senior forward harrison shipp netted the game-winner in the 90th minute against virginia Tech in blacksburg, va. 
shipp’s unassisted goal se­cured the 1-0 win for no. 2 notre dame (7-0-4, 4-0-3 acc) and saved the irish from heading into their sixth overtime period of the season. irish coach bobby clark said shipp came through for the irish after they couldn’t convert early chances into goals. 
“harrison shipp got in the best spot,” clark said. “we had some headers early on, and we had some great opportunities, and then harry was able to work his magic.” 
before unleashing the game winner, shipp regained pos­session after a deflection then dribbled up the middle. his shot eluded hokies senior goalkeeper kyle renfro and zipped into the lower right corner of the goal. 
although the game’s lone goal came in the last possible min­ute, the irish threatened to score early in the game. irish junior forward vince cicciarelli creat­ed the first scoring opportunity in the third minute, but renfro came up with his first save of the night. 
notre dame produced a flurry of headers in the 18th and 19th minutes on corner kicks taken by shipp. renfro came up with a stop on senior defender luke mishu’s first attempt to head the ball in, then virginia Tech (3-4-4, 1-2-4) recorded a team save on a header from irish senior de­fender andrew o’malley. renfro saved a header from shipp short­ly thereafter and cicciarelli had a shot blocked by the hokies de­fense to end the threat. 
cicciarelli (3), o’malley (2) and shipp (2) all had multiple shots on goal for notre dame. 
see m soccer PAGE 14 


HOCKEY | nd 4, wesTern michigan 0; nd 3, wesTern michigan 0 
Irish shut down Broncos 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
The no. 8 irish shut out no. 18 western michigan twice this weekend, winning 4-0 Friday at compton Family ice arena and 3-0 saturday at the lawson arena in kalamazoo, mich. 
irish senior goaltender steven summerhays racked up 22 saves each night, on the way to two notre dame shutouts over the broncos (0-2-0). 
in Friday’s game, notre dame (2-0-0) took an early 1-0 lead in the first period, had a stagnant second period and then explod­ed in the third. 
Freshman vince hinostroza was the catalyst for the first irish goal 5:36 into the first period. in the closing seconds of an irish power play, hinostroza got the puck from senior defenseman shayne Taker at the left circle, where he fired a low wrist shot to the front of the net. The puck deflected off of the skate of ju­nior right wing austin wuthrich and went past senior broncos’ goaltender Frank slubowski. wuthrich picked up notre dame’s first goal of the season and his 13th career goal. 
“it was good to get the first one out of the way,” wuthrich said. “vinnie [hinostroza] had the puck on the half wall and moved it towards the middle. i think he was trying to hit [senior left wing and captain] Jeff costello on the back door but it hit my skate. i turned around and it was in the net. ... i got a lucky bounce.” 

slubowski, who had 28 saves on the night, then shut down notre dame’s scoring oppor­tunities until the third period. in the final period, notre dame mustered three more goals, in­cluding an empty-netter, despite having to stave off a 6-3 penalty kill for 1:18 with four minutes remaining in the game. notre dame had 21 blocked shots on the night. 

“we played really well defen­sively and to see that effort the entire game on the penalty kill was outstanding. we did a great job blocking shots, especially on the 6-on-3,” summerhays said. “i think that is the most blocked 
see hockey PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | virginia Tech 1, nd 0 
late goal dooms nd on the road 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
a late-game goal sealed the 1-0 win for no. 10 virginia Tech as the home team handed no. 9 notre dame its third-straight loss sunday in blacksburg, va. 
hokies junior midfielder ellie Zoepfl slipped the ball between the legs of irish freshman goal­keeper kaela little in the 87th minute for the match’s only score. little was off balance af­ter making a save off a shot from hokies redshirt junior forward shannon mayrose, who passed the ball across the net to Zoepfl for the assist. 
The hokies (11-2-1, 6-1-1 acc) pestered little and the irish (9-4-1, 5-3-1) throughout the first half, controlling most of the possession and keeping the ball in their offensive zone. To fend off the constant pressure, little made three saves on the day, including one off a first-half mayrose shot in which she blocked the ball and caught it before mayrose had a chance to make a second attempt. 
“kaela was solid for us,” irish coach randy waldrum said. “she coped with a lot of crosses and picked up some loose balls from over the top when she had to come out of the goal and beat the attacker to the ball to get it cleared. i thought once the game got going and once she got her mind into the speed of the game, she was pretty good.” 
The irish also needed some time to get going, looking slow in the first half next to the speedy hokies offense, which won most of the battles for loose balls. coming out of half­time, notre dame picked up its pace and its shot count, putting up 10 shots in the second half compared to four in the first. 
“we had to make a couple of changes to adjust to the speed [virginia Tech] had up front,” waldrum said. “i ended up pushing [sophomore midfield­er] cari roccaro back to the right-back spot and bringing [freshman] rilka noel in as the attacking midfield player, and i thought that really calmed us down, and we were able to get a handle on more of our possessions.” 
with their energy level and focus picked up in the sec­ond half, the irish put up more shots but could not respond to 
see w soccer PAGE 14 





