The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 53 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FASO leads typhoon relief effort 
Student organization raises money for disaster assistance in Philippines 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
despite the miles that sep­arate notre dame from the philippines — the site of the devastating Typhoon haiyan that hit in early november — relief efforts are underway on campus to bring help to the region. 
danica lapid, copresident of the Filipino-american student organization (Faso), said Faso worked with the asian american association (aaa) to raise money to aid in the relief and the groups have already raised approximately $1,000. 
lapid said she is inspired by the notre dame com­munity’s willingness to help with the relief effort. 
“i didn’t expect everyone to be so excited and support­ive,” she said. “it’s good to know that we can be the way that people can help.” 
To begin its efforts, the group held a banner sign­ing in south dining hall last wednesday, lapid said. she said the event helped to raise awareness about the future events. 

“[Faso] could put on these events, but no one knows that they are happening. if you get people at the dining hall and give them flyers, then maybe they’ll stop by — and that’s really all we ask,” she said. “we made 40 bucks just sitting in the dining hall, not even asking people for donations.” 
lapid said the club held a bagel sale in the laFortune student center lobby Thursday morning that proved successful. 
“it went really, really well. To make $600 off of bagels is just crazy,” she said. “we asked for $2, but people were throwing down 20s.” 
Faso and aaa hosted a fundraiser sunday at Five guys followed by a rosary service at the grotto in the evening, lapid said. 
“i spoke to hall presidents’ council and asked them to promote the events in their dorms,” she said. “i also know dillon hall is selling their old apparel for $5 each and they are donating the profits to us. slowly and slowly, it’s been adding up.” 
lapid said Typhoon haiyan was one of the most deadly and powerful storms in history. 


“i heard that if you took the size of [the] typhoon and put it over the [united states], it would stretch from Florida to new england,” she said. 
all the profits from the events are sent to the national alliance for Filipino concerns (naFcon), lapid said, which sends the money directly to a grassroots organization that is already established in the philippines. 
“we just didn’t want [the money] to go to the wrong places,” she said. “it’s better to go with a smaller and more direct organization.” 
lapid said she is concerned about long-term support for the devastated areas of the philippines. 
see relieF PAGE 5 

Festival 
marks 
Indian 



holiday 

By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
The indian association of notre dame (iand) delivered a sense of traditional indian culture to the ballroom in the laFortune student center with a diwali celebration on sunday night. 
The diwali celebration, known as “The Festival of lights,” in­cluded a prayer service, a dinner of indian cuisine and a dance cel­ebration featuring indian music. 
The diwali celebration holds great importance to people all across india from a variety of faiths, including hinduism, Jainism and sikhism. 
“diwali is one of the most important festivals in india, marking the end of the indian calendar,” indian association faculty advisor Jindal shah said. 
Five organizations came to­gether to sponsor the diwali 
see diwali PAGE 5 




SMC reaches out to underprivileged schools 
Inspiration for ‘Freedom Writers’ speaks at College 

By KIERA JOHNSEN 
news writer 
erin gruwell, author of “The Freedom writers diary” and founder of the Freedom writers Foundation, spoke on encour­aging diversity and understand­ing in a lecture titled “Teaching Tolerance” in moreau hall’s little Theater on Friday. 
penn high school sophomore Katie laiman approached saint mary’s with the idea to invite gruwell to speak as a part of girls scout gold award project. 
see gruwell PAGE 4 




Saint Mary’s students support local schools 

By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
For more than seven years, the college academy of Tutoring (caT) program at saint mary’s has helped students at Title i schools in south bend to succeed. 
“The main goal is to provide ex­tra resources for area schools and area kids while also allowing saint mary’s students the opportunity to serve and learn from the commu­nity,” Jessica busloan, director of the caT program, said. 
participants in the caT program 
see caT PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 10 men’s basKeTball PAGE 16 women’s soccer PAGE 16 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 

including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 

majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 

letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your second-favorite college? 

Abby Suckow 
junior breen phillips hall 
“saint mary’s.” 

Frank McNiff 
freshman sorin college 
“Texas a&m.” 

Amanda Dougherty 
junior breen phillips hall 
“ohio state.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Michael Loftus 
junior 
o’neill hall 
“holy cross.” 

Shannon Chiao 
freshman 
cavanaugh hall 
“emory.” 


Peter Forbes 
sophomore 
o’neill hall 
“umass amherst.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
meg handelman Joseph monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Kelly Konya casey Karnes nicole mcalee mary green 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
maria massa gabriela leskur 
Photo Viewpoint 

Opening Ceremony Book Launch: “In Physics Colloquium Third Thursdays at Irish Studies Lecture 
oe Kenesey austin Taliaferro 
for Peace Sand the Company of the Nieuwland Hall the Snite Hesburgh Library Mandala Poor” 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Snite Museum of Art 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Jordan Hall of Science McKenna Hall “Let’s Go Skating ... 5 p.m.-7:30 p.m. “Invisible Republics: 
Corrections 

9:30a.m.-10 a.m. 7 p.m. And Do Some Physics Figure drawing Modernism and 
The observer regards itself as Open to the public. Includes discussion. on the Ice.” session. Childhood.” a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Berges Lecture Four: 7 Catholic Laird Hunt Reading Zen Meditation Notre Dame 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Hall Fellowship Eck Visitors Center Coleman-Morse Symphony Orchestra 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m.-8 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. Center DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Lecture on ethics 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Reading by award-5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
in business by Gary Student-led Catholic winning short story Open to students of all 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Aguirre. fellowship. author. faiths. Fall concert. 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | The observer 

SMC memorializes anniversary of student death 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
news writer 
saint mary’s held a ceremony Friday to dedicate a tree on cam­pus to the memory of Ziqi Zhang, an international student who was killed last year while traveling by bike between the college and notre dame. 
elaine meyer-lee, direc­tor of the center for women’s intercultural leadership (cwil), said the death had, and continues to have, a big impact on members of the saint mary’s community. 
“For those of us who knew her, and even for some who didn’t, it was a very tragic event last fall.” meyer-lee said. 
meyer-lee said Zhang was ac­tive at saint mary’s and at notre dame, as a participant in the du­al-degree engineering program. 
“she jumped into things and got involved right away,” meyer­lee said. 
although saint mary’s did not have a public memorial to mark the anniversary of Zhang’s death, meyer-lee said notre dame held a candlelight vigil in Zhang’s memory at the grotto. she said saint mary’s students and faculty were looking to honor Zhang’s memory, as well. 
“as the weather changed and got closer to what it was that night, i think a lot of us ... were think­ing about her,” meyer-lee said. “as the anniversary approached, quite a few of us ... started talk­ing about an appropriate way to mark that as a community.” 
meyer-lee said the idea for a lasting memorial to Zhang had been discussed more immediate­ly after her death last year, but the anniversary caused the idea to resurface. student government association took the lead, in con­junction with some of Zhang’s closest friends, to make the me­morial a reality. 
saint mary’s chose to dedicate a hawthorn tree near regina hall, where Zhang lived during her time on campus, meyer-lee said. 
“it’s strong like she was, and living as we want her memory to be,” meyer-lee said. “somebody also pointed out that for an in­ternational student, the way a tree has its roots in land and its branches in the air was a nice symbol for the way [Zhang] crossed cultures.” 

a number of faculty and stu­dents from the saint mary’s com­munity attended the blessing and dedication, which began at 4 p.m. Friday. The ceremony opened with a prayer and a reading, and then those in attendance were in­vited to share favorite memories of Zhang. 
several of Zhang’s friends and members of faculty shared stories about their times with her. 
alice siquin, assistant director of global education in cwil, read the letter from Zhang’s father that was shared at her memorial service last october. Those in at­tendance were invited to extend their hand and join in the bless­ing of the tree as it was watered from the font of the church of our lady of loretto. 
The ceremony concluded with a closing prayer and the sign of peace. participants were invited to congregate in the lobby of regina hall to share refresh­ments and continue to trade memories of Zhang. 
“it was beautiful,” junior claire stewart said. “it was wonderful to see [everyone] coming together to cherish the life of a wonder­ful member of the saint mary’s community.” 
despite not knowing Zhang very well on a personal level, stewart said she really felt the loss and thought attending the dedication was an important way to honor Zhang’s life. 

“i had one class with her fresh­man year. The accident happened while i was abroad in rome. ... all of us were really shaken up, just knowing that there was a loss in the saint mary’s community,” stewart said. “even people that we don’t know well are so vital to what our life is here, and ev­ery member is integral to our happiness.” 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 

department of education workshops inspire creativity 
conference coordinator and James Kennedy, author of in order to create their new the most difficult things about 
By KATE KULWICKI 

news writer department of education ad-“The order of the odd-Fish,” identity. writing is getting started. junct faculty member. hosted his own workshop that Kennedy said after the stu-“even though the insults are saint mary’s students em-“we wanted to give them the enabled students to see how dents were in costume, he en-going to seem ridiculous, it 
braced their inner creativity opportunity to celebrate what “alive” writing can be, higgs-couraged them to insult each will unblock their creativity,” 
during saturday’s “get inked” they do,” higgs-coulthard said. coulthard said. other and to exchange creative Kennedy said. 
conference through a series of “if you play sports, you make it “i want students to get out of threats before they ultimately higgs-coulthard said he had 
workshops that were open to into a tournament or on the all-their heads,” Kennedy said. “i engaged in a dance battle. been stuck in a dry spell of writ-
both men and women. star team. There isn’t that for find that people who get in cos-“it brings writing and im-ing since his last creative writ-The conference, sponsored young writers, and so we want-tume, their inhibitions go away provisation together in a way ing class, but the conference 
by the college’s department of ed to give them that chance.” a little bit. if they are behind a that brings out a different form brought out styles of writing in 
education, was held in carroll Teachers from local com-costume or a mask, they say or of creativity than just writing people that had been dormant 
auditorium in madeleva hall. munity high schools con-do things that they ordinarily does,” participant chris higgs-or that they hadn’t discovered From 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., students ducted most of the workshops wouldn’t.” coulthard said. yet. 
attended a range of poetry, and it gave the young writers during his workshop, the Kennedy, notre dame class of seminars like this represent 
story-boarding and character an opportunity to learn from writers sorted through a pile 1995, said he came to the con-the good that can be accom­
development workshops, said the community, Kathy higgs-of miscellaneous costume ference to help students “un-plished through education, 
Kathy higgs-coulthard, coulthard said. pieces in the center of the room lock the gate.” he said one of higgs-coulthard said. “There is so much negativity paid adverTisemenT 

right now in education, and for us to be able to look around at the wealth of experience that we have in our community with these amazing teachers and to be able to hold them up and say. ‘look, these are our teachers doing amazing things’ and give them the opportunity to reach children that they wouldn’t normally reach,”  chris higgs­coulthard said. 
participant emily smith said 
the conference positively im­
pacted her writing. 
“i definitely got more inspi­ration and motivation to keep writing and keep going with it,” she said. 
elzbieta woronowicz, an­other participant, said the workshop on metaphors was particularly helpful. 
“it really changed my point of view on the similarities between things, so it gave me a different perspective,” woronowicz said. 
Contact Kate Kulwicki at          kkulwi01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

CAT 
conTinued From page 1 
attended the lecture on saturday by erin gruwell titled “Teaching Tolerance” to gain insight on their work in low-in­come schools. 
christin Kloski, student di­rector for the caT program, said gruwell spoke about the im­pact a mentor and teacher can make on a student, especially when the students challenge authority.
 “our students are our true educators,” Kloski said. “we learn from them, and they help us to rework our teaching or tu­toring to apply to their own lives or life experiences. 
“The lecture simply gave all of us the extra push we needed to believe in what we are doing in the caT program.” 
Kloski, a junior, said gruwell’s words resonated with partici­pants of the caT program, even if they never have to deal with such things themselves. 
“[gruwell’s] story is unique and can and should be applied to the caT program,” she said. “her words of inspiration and constant encouragement of her students is exactly what we must keep in mind and apply to our own students.” 
Kloski said gruwell’s lecture was especially meaningful be­cause saint mary’s students often work with kids whose lifestyles may be different than theirs. 
“some of the students are just from torn-up homes,” Kloski said. “They are going through a lot more than we can ever imag­ine an eight- or nine-year-old going through.” 
The caT initiative began in 2006 as an americorps pro­gram in which saint mary’s stu­dents read to students at Title i schools for a half hour each week, busloan said. 
“as our students would go in, they noticed there was a lot of need besides just reading to the kids,” she said. “since then, the program has been develop­ing and growing into what it is now.” 
busloan said approximate­ly 20 students are serving coquillard elementary and Jefferson Junior high through the caT program this semester. 
Kloski said the program se­lects a few students each year to serve as caT scholars. These students receive $1,000 a semes­ter for two years of service. caT requires scholars to work in the schools for 250 hours and to complete a larger service proj­ect each semester. 

students can also choose to be teaching assistants at coquillard or to work as tu­tors at coquillard or Jefferson, Kloski said. 
approximately 50 students participate in caT’s pen-pal program during the spring se­mester, busloan said. in this project, saint mary’s students correspond with coquillard stu­dents by handwritten mail. The program concludes with a din­ner at the end of the semester. 
Kloski said the pen-pal pro­gram enables students to par­ticipate in caT without making a major time commitment. 
“you get to see what’s going on in [south bend students’] lit­tle world,” Kloski said. “it’s also a mentoring program. … Just giving out your personal experi­ences can help them set goals.” 
busloan said students from various majors participate in the caT program.
 “obviously, we have a lot of education majors in the pro­gram because it gives them a little extra experience,” she said. “we also have psychology and communicative disorders majors, but we take absolutely anybody who enjoys working with kids and wants to help kids.” 
The caT program serves the south bend community just as much as it does saint mary’s students, busloan said. 
“we’re definitely there for the kids. in coquillard, we’re the only after-school program that they have,” busloan said. “but also, we want to help get saint mary’s students out of the bub­ble, into the community, work­ing with kids and having fun doing it. 
“we hope they learn, that they get just as much out of [the pro­gram] as they are giving to the kids. we hope they learn about diversity, diversity of opinions, diversity of experiences, just more about the world around them.” 
Kloski stressed the impor­tance of getting off campus and learning about the surrounding community. 
“you experience so much that you can’t if you don’t get out of the saint mary’s bubble,” Kloski said. “we’re trying to find ways to connect our saint mary’s community with the local com­munity, primarily with the schools that are involved with our program.” 
Kloski said her three years participating in caT have been a meaningful part of her educa­tion at saint mary’s. 
“it’s a rewarding experience in what you are doing with the people and just seeing you can change lives, legitimately,” Kloski said. “you can see the change from year to year with your students.” 
Kloski said the lower-income students might face problems at home that affect their be­haviors in the classroom, but the relationships they develop with the saint mary’s students positively impact their school experiences. 
“you [as a saint mary’s stu­dent] may be going through something tough, and when you get to the school, your kids may give you the biggest hug for no apparent reason other than that you arrived,” Kloski said. “you’re helping them succeed, little by little. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Gruwell 
conTinued From page 1 
“i think this talk was really impactful, and i hope every­one that was here takes a lot from it,” laiman said. 
gruwell said she became a teacher because she wanted to stand up for kids who did not have a voice. 
“before there was a book, before there was a movie, there was a group of students who were tired of being in­visible, tired of being on the fringe and just wanted to mat­ter, just wanted to be heard,” she said. 
gruwell said when she was in graduate education classes she noticed a disconnection between theory and practice. 
“i realized this when i walked into my first class­room and my students could care not less about stories, and books, and shakespeare and tales about homer,” she said. 
“my students cared about would i make it home alive, am i gonna get home and see my hardworking mom with those cockroaches and those rats in that tiny one bedroom hous­ing project, and will there be dinner, would their be food on the table, are those cupboards going to be bare again.” 
gruwell said all of her stu­dents buried friends due to senseless gang violence by the age of 14, and it made her des­perate to show them stories written about teenagers such as anne Frank. 
“at that moment i wanted to find books written by, for and about kids,” she said. “Kids who lived in real wars, kids who didn’t pick up molotov cocktails or spray cans or use 38 special handguns, kids who picked up a pen and tried to write along, kids who picked up a pen and tried to write their own ending.” 
gruwell said she went to her english department chair to ask if she could use these books but was turned down. 
“she said my kids were too stupid to read a book, and they would never read a book from cover to cover,” gruwell said. “she went on to say they were dumb; she went on to say they were nothing. i realized my kids have been called dumb, stupid and nothing so often by so many people they be­lieved it, and they were acting accordingly.” 
gruwell said in order to convince her students to pick up a book instead of using cliff notes or downloading someone else’s essay off the internet, she had them wipe the slate clean and start over. 
“without really thinking it through, i decided we were go­ing to have a toast for change,” she said. “maybe for the first time it doesn’t matter, maybe we can wipe the slate clean, maybe we can start over. i wanted to start over because i wanted my students to know they had a voice. i wanted them to know they were bril­liant and they could go any­where and do anything.” 
gruwell said over the years she has watched these 150 kids, who were not supposed to make it, become teachers, parents and leaders. 
“i watched each and every one of those kids become the first in their families to grad­uate,” she said. “i watched each and every one of those kids become the first in their family to go to college. … i 
The lecture was cospon­sored by the saint mary’s education club, cwil, ocse, sims, student government association and girls scouts of northern indiana michiania. 
Contact Kiera Johnsen at kjohns01@saintmarys.edu 

watched those kids realize their dreams.” 
gruwell said she has watched kids build mountains and has seen their book in­spire others. 
“i am an ordinary teacher who had an extraordinary ex­perience with a group of kids who were tired of reading books written by dead white guys in tights,” she said. “They wanted kids like you to see their story, they wanted kids like you to identify with their story, but most importantly, they wanted kids like you to write your own.” 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | The observer 



Professor defends Thoreau’s view of Irish 
might suggest racism or scorn 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 

news editor towards the immigrants, she 
said. 

laura dassow walls, a pro-“hasty reading of ‘walden’ fessor of english, delivered have given Thoreau a bad a lecture Friday afternoon name in irish studies,” she exploring new ideas about said. “The temptation to use american writer henry david Thoreau as a metric to view Thoreau’s relationship with english hostility to the irish irish immigrants in his home-remains. town and their effect on his “central to all of this is the writing. notorious chapter in ‘walden’ 
The cross-disciplinary lec-in which the narrator retreats ture sponsored by the Keough-during the thunderstorm to naughton institute for irish the shanty on baker Farm studies was titled “‘as you are where John Field lives with brothers of mine’: Thoreau his family, lectures them at and the irish.” in the presen-pedantic length about how tation, walls sketched a vi-he, one of their nearest neigh­sion of a positive, respectful bors, lives the good life and interaction between Thoreau how they could too if only they and the local irish though lived the same way as he.” “hasty readings” of his work, walls said though many particularly “walden,” which literary critics react to such episodes by saying, “henry, how could you?” her exami­nation of his primary writ­ings while researching for a prospective biography have brought her to a different perspective. 
“Thoreau used his vari­ous writing projects to stage problems [including] multiple contrasting voices,” she said. “This multi-valence has made him a useful resource for ev­erything from anarchism to communitarianism, from mis­anthropy to compassion, from wilderness escapism to civil disobedience. 
“with all of the above, you can add them all up and odd­ly enough, they do not cancel each other out … Thoreau re­lentlessly probes the conven­tions of his time. seeking the ground that will not yield un­der pressure, he probed the irish immigrants with all the rest.” 
Thoreau held all members of his society to a high stan­dard, walls said, and at times found fault with all, including the irish. but the irish, unlike most other groups, gave him “cause for hope” too, she said. 
when the writer moved to walden pond in 1844, he lived among the irish immigrants in a shanty on land purchased 

Diwali 
conTinued From page 1 
event: the graduate student union, international student service and activities, campus ministry and the indian association of notre dame. The student activities organization (sao) helped provide the venue for the evening in the laFortune ballroom, and campus ministry sponsored the diwali celebration as part of the prayer from around the world series. 
prof. shah began the event with an explanation of the origins of diwali. he said the story of diwali spans back into indian lore and the tale of King dashratha, whose eldest son rama was betrothed to the beautiful sita and was set to inherit the kingdom. however, rama was exiled by his jeal­ous stepmother for 14 years. meanwhile, the demon king ravana kidnapped sita, lead­ing to a fierce battle between rama and ravana that ended in rama’s victory and the re­turn of his bride sita. 
“The people lit candles to mark the return of rama and sita, creating the festival of lights that announces the tri­umph of good over evil,” shah said. “in the story, ravana embodies all that is evil, and rama embodies all that is good.” 
graduate student gaurav nigam, co-president of iand, said the diwali festival re­quired about a month of plan­ning and sought to fulfill several goals. 
“we wanted to make everyone aware of the indian festivals and make the indian students feel at home be­cause we don’t get to celebrate indian festivals in america very often,” nigam said. 
nigam said the indian association typically hosts two major festivals each year. 
suresh vishwanath, a chem­ical engineering graduate stu­dent and co-president of iand, said those who celebrate diwali pray for well-being and blessing on this occasion. attendees of the diwali cel­ebration at notre dame came from many faiths and regions. 
“some people here today faced two to three hour drives to help set up and be with us today,” vishwanath said. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at         cducey@nd.edu 

Relief 
conTinued From page 1 
“The hard part of doing all this aid stuff is that people frontload the relief effort,” she said. “The problem, i think, is further down the 
from ralph waldo emerson, walls said. 
“[The cabin] Thoreau built [at walden] was nothing less … than an irish laborer’s shanty, repackaged to house a yankee laborer’s lifelong dream to es­cape from labor altogether by becoming a great writer,” she said. 
The patronizing tone of the John Field lecture episode in “walden” has frustrated many scholars as an example of Thoreau’s arrogance towards the irish, but walls said she reads it as a parody of the first half of the book. 
“note that Thoreau sets himself up as an insufferable pedant; a meddling, tiresome intruder who lectures the be­leaguered family in reckless abstractions cast in absurdly run-on sentences; a ‘philoso­pher’ wagging his finger in their faces,” she said. “This is an extravagant parody of the entire first half of ‘walden.’ 
“but, if he can’t reach John Field, who is standing right there in front of him, with [his] entire future and the future of [his] children hanging in the balance, how can he possi­bly reach us? For roughly 200 pages, Thoreau has been lec­turing us on and on about how our proper economic choices 

road, like three months from now, there won’t be as much money or attention.” 
The next fundraiser will be held over byu weekend, lapid said. she said Faso’s march cultural show will also donate their proceeds to will lead to our spiritual [well­being], and just like John Field, we haven’t heard a thing. have we changed our lives? no, nothing has changed.” 
walls said she believes Thoreau reprises the content 
“Hasty reading of ‘Walden’ has given Thoreau a bad name in Irish studies.” 
Laura Dassow Walls 
professor of English 
of the book’s first half to em­phasize his underlying point, which happens to take place in the course of this conver­sation with the irish family. by examining his intentions more closely, she said readers can better grasp the respect he had for the hardworking irish people and their abil­ity to “boldly live” apart from the mainstream american culture. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
the relief effort. 
“it’s our 20th annual show, and we’re trying to bring back a ton of alumni,” she said.  
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

“Dark Fantasy” 
John Ning 
photographer 
let’s play a game. 

imagine your feelings during one of the greatest moments in your life… ”amazing.” now let’s say that you knew this moment would happen two months ahead of time. Feel like you could “Touch the sky?” Then, as you’re counting down the weeks in anticipa­tion, you find out two days before that it won’t happen. Think i’m “heartless” right? ok, “guilt Trip,” you find out the next day that your moment will indeed happen, but in a little over a month. “The Joy” returns. 
pretty emotionally exhausting game right? well it’s based on a true story. my “pinocchio story.” it all started when i found out in late august that Kanye west, the voice of our generation, was going on his first solo tour in five years and was stopping in chicago on nov. 9. i notified the “clique” and got tickets mid-september. i felt like i was living one “hell of a life” and that nothing could “bring me down.” but this is the part where it “all Falls down.” as i counted down the days in anticipa­tion, news broke late october that his tour may be postponed due to a truck accident that damaged his custom-made video screens. i waited for the “bad news,” praying that “Jesus walks” with me and prevents a postponement, but lo and behold, two days before the concert, the show in chicago was postponed. “welcome to heartbreak.” but i knew Kanye would “never let me down” and sure enough he resched­uled his “homecoming” concert to december. it was a “celebration” 
now i know you must be thinking, “Twista had this on in The source!” and “isn’t this a little overboard for a concert?” no. not when Kanye west is the topic of discussion. he is the man whose tours (watch the Throne and glow in the dark) have been known to change lives and touch souls. 
not to mention the show is in his hometown chicago where he’ll defi­nitely be “looking for Trouble” when “all of the lights” hit him. did i forget to mention that he brought Jesus on stage? yes you read right, Jesus, in all “The glory” and the “power.” lastly before i forget, King Kendrick lamar is the opening act. That’s as “real” as it gets so don’t kill my vibe. 
i know 99% of you won’t understand or repost this, but for the 1% that will, i have one thing to say, “yeezy season approaching.” 
Contact John at jning@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Connor Roth 
Think. it’s not illegal yet 

Tuesday will mark the 150th anni­versary of president abraham lincoln’s speech dedicating the soldiers’ national cemetery in gettysburg, penn., given in 1863. located within the gettysburg national military park, this cemetery was created for union soldiers to be buried after the civil war, but was expanded to accommodate those who gave the ultimate sacrifice in later conflicts. The gettysburg address has become one of the most renowned american public speeches in history and is revered along­side other notable deliverances including martin luther King Jr.’s “i have a dream” and John F. Kennedy’s inauguration. 
in dedicating the soldiers’ national cemetery, lincoln was invited later on by the memorial committee almost as an afterthought. edward everett, who deliv­ered a two-hour oration on behalf of the fallen soldiers, gave the primary speech of the day. lincoln followed with remarks that lasted roughly three minutes. The elo­quence of honest abe’s delivery and the succinctness of his speech captivated the audience at gettysburg. The entire nation became mesmerized by lincoln’s ability to weave christian themes into a secular memorial for the war-fallen. Time was significant for the president’s speech too, as the union was two years into the civil war — fighting right in the thick of things with an end still looming in the distance. 
lincoln begins the gettysburg address appealing to the Founding Fathers, 
u.s. constitution and declaration of independence. starting with “Four score and seven years ago,” he immediately takes the audience back to 1776, remind­ing them of the newly proposed notion that “all men are created equal.” The president quickly follows by bringing back the assembly to the present and candidly mentions the desperate conditions of the nation under strife. simultaneously, he asks indirectly if any country conceived in liberty could endure such a test of civil war. The frankness of his diction creates an atmosphere of trust and gravity. The audience knows their president is not trying to hoodwink them or understate the dire situation they are currently in. lincoln’s juxtaposed use of “fitting and proper” in context of dedicating the fields previously used for battle as a modern war memorial invokes religious themes to his strongly christian audience. each individ­ual listening to abe’s words understands that he is not only speaking as president, but also as a concerned citizen, hoping to inspire confidence in the nation under fire. The text invokes a desire for a more just future with equality under the law while remembering the past in astound­ing brevity. 
The president concludes his speech by stating that even through words, no man can dedicate, consecrate, or hallow the plains of gettysburg — again appealing to christian themes — only the men who fought on the ground could possibly do so. he gives all of the honor to the individuals who lost their lives fighting for what they “so far have nobly advanced.” instead of attempting to sanctify a ground already made holy by the death of 8,000 men, lincoln suggests that the best way to com­memorate their sacrifice would be to con­tinue fighting for a “new birth of freedom.” here he ends his remarks by famously calling for a government “of the people, by the people and for the people,” hoping america can regain its position as a model of democratic principles for other nations to look up to for years to come. 
putting the debate over his response to horace greeley’s new york Tribune editorial aside, (which polarized views on whether or not lincoln was actually the “great emancipator”) there is still much to take from lincoln’s powerful dedication at gettysburg. many historians argue that the gettysburg address transformed the entire meaning of the civil war as viewed from modernity. not once did lincoln dis­cuss specifics of battle, the names of any soldiers, the south, the union, secession or states rights — he did not even mention the name of gettysburg! instead, he fo­cused his speech on attempting to cleanse the nation of its original sin and contex­tualized his hope for the united states to stay united as one union. instead of discussing individual actors at gettysburg or describing what the people who fought there were like, the president’s speech transcends the physical world and instead emphasizes the importance of ideas, namely equality and justice. 
so, 150 years later, how far have we come as a nation? have we made lincoln proud? are we still a beacon for others to model after, just as the protestants wanted to create a “city upon a hill” to symbolize american exceptionalism, work ethic and virtue? or, have we not advanced as far as one might hope 150 years would allow 
— have we actually not proven that the united states went through a new birth of freedom? is the government still of the people, by the people and for the people? it seems the answers to these questions might not be as simple as one would hope. 
regardless of your personal take on these questions we should be asking ourselves, lincoln’s gettysburg address brought together a divided nation by can­didly discussing our troubling past, which many americans hid in some dark corner in the back of their minds or attempted to rationalize as simply a states rights issue. 
Connor Roth is a junior studying economics and constitutional studies. He lives in Duncan Hall, hails from Cleveland and is currently participat­ing in the London abroad program through Notre Dame. He can be con­tacted at croth1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
a simple request 
i will try not to waste words. it has been a long football season. despite the loss of the starting quarterback at the end of the spring and countless injuries on the defensive front, our football team has demonstrated tremendous resolve. This has not gone unnoticed. now, we have one home game left. senior day. as a senior myself, i offer that it would be nice if the team sings the alma mater with the student section after the game, win or lose. i confess no grand argument behind this request nor a want to address some larger issue. simply, i believe the act would be greatly appreciated. Thank you and go irish. 
Will Peterson 
senior off campus nov. 18 



UWIRE 

literature in lexile 
Opinions on Reserve 
The harvard crimson 

you’ve probably heard about lexiles al­ready — you know — that system of rank­ing books by difficulty using quantitative analysis of word frequency and sentence length? The proprietary textual-complexity measurement system garnered a great deal of press in the past few weeks. lots of bad press, actually. it’s something that deserves further scrutiny and attention. 
The idea of lexiles is quite simple: as we have units of measure for temperature, length, weight, periods of time, and so on, why not quantify the complexity, the reading difficulty of a text? i can appreci­ate the possible advantages of having a solid, instant, digit-sized impression of a book. Teachers in primary and secondary schools could use lexiles to choose which books to assign to which students — know­ing in advance if students would be bored, would meet with a challenge, or would struggle through without comprehension. 
however, practice rarely mirrors theory; belief in the validity of such a scale is sure to be shaken when confronted with its results. as reported by blaine greteman in The new republic, classic novels like steinbeck’s The grapes of wrath or harper lee’s To Kill a mockingbird receive per­plexingly low lexile scores (680, 870); and books like The hunger games (810) or mr. popper’s penguins (910), which laymen might consider simpler novels, somehow merited higher scores. no human reader tasked with ranking these books by quali­tative or quantitative methods would re­turn the same results. so i hope, at least. 
if education reform is important to you, then the lexile scale should make you feel uneasy. The common core state standards initiative, sponsored by the national governors association, already incorporates lexile scores into its new english language arts curriculum; the common core itself has been adopted by 45 states out of 50. The goal of the initia­tive is to increase curricular rigor, and an easy way to do this is to quantify textual difficulty and assign tougher books to young students. but the adoption of lexiles breeds contradictions. consider: The new lexile range for grade 10 is 1080-1305 lex­iles, but the example text for grades 9-10 is steinbeck’s The grapes of wrath — 680 lex­iles only! again, any reasonably well-read person could tell you what lexiles can’t: The difficulty of a text is more than the sum of its syntax. 
To the credit of the ccss for english, “quantitative dimensions of text complex­ity” are only one third of the ccss method­ology of text evaluation—the other two are qualitative dimensions of text complexity and consideration of readers and tasks. Further, ccss methodology presents lex­iles as one of many possible quantitative schemes—a competitor to the Flesch-Kincaid readability test, the dale-chall readability formula, and the aTos formula. 
yet cursory or deep readings of the ccss literature both confirm the initiative’s preference for the lexile scale: it receives the most mentions, and graphs and charts accompanying the recommendations use lexile score ranges instead of Flesch-Kincaid or the coh-metrix system, the only identified non-profit readability evaluation service mentioned by ccss. That the lexile scale is the product of a private educational company known as metametrics should not be problematic per se. 
given recent protest against the ef­fectiveness of for-profit charter school operators, i think it would be reasonably cautious to step back and question if we as taxpayers should turn over any part of our curricular standards to an entity that’s unaccountable to the public. 
could there be a better investment? i think so. primary and secondary school libraries could fulfill the curatorial and diagnostic roles performed by lexiles. most of what’s said about school libraries now revolves around the digital. emphasis on computer literacy seemingly eclipses the library’s traditional role of promoting literacy, love of reading, and connecting readers to new books they might enjoy and might profit from. i think the mission of the ccss for english language arts could benefit by libraries staffed by librarians and full of books. 
statistics collected by the u.s. department of education indicate that in 2008, 91 percent of public schools had a li­brary or media center and of those schools only 62 percent of libraries were staffed by a fulltime librarian; 27 percent of libraries had neither fulltime nor part-time staff. compare this with the data from 2000, when 86 percent of public school libraries employed a fulltime librarian. This de­cline rings true to me: my high school had a librarian my freshman year but by my senior year the position was unfilled and the space defunct. 
librarians could work one-on-one with students, develop a reading plan for them based on interests and skill level, track their progress and much more. english teachers could partner with librarians to help students who are falling behind or gifted students who aren’t stimulated by the grade-level curriculum, freeing up more class time for instruction in grammar and writing. 
what’s important is to inspire a lifelong love of reading, and especially reading drama, poetry and fiction. currently, the ccss heavily favors the reading of non­fiction and technical texts. i think it should not ignore literature, though; studies show that reading literary fiction can increase students’ empathy — a quality some people value, even if they are unable to practice it. 
what you can’t accomplish with num­bers, you might achieve with a human being who cares about books and the stu­dents who read them, and a viable space in which books are available and valued. 
The Harvard Crimson is the independent student newspaper serving Harvard University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Support the University’s children 
Richard Klee 
catholic characteristics 

at our catholic university, what happens when a teaching of the catholic church is ignored and many suffer harm as a result? 
The highest concentration of uninsured children in st. Joseph county is likely right on notre dame’s campus. at the university village, there are many children of undergradu­ate and graduate students without health insurance. Their parents cannot afford the university’s dependent health care plan. as children of international students and non-citizens, these kids do not qualify for public assistance programs like medicaid. many of their parents are also uninsured. Their situation, in most cases, will not be improved by the affordable care act. These families earn too little to qualify for health insurance exchange subsidies and cannot join state medicaid programs as non-citizens until after five years of residency. 
it is not news that notre dame has uninsured children right on campus. many university groups have tried to help them. The recent report on the graduate school led by former dean mark roche spoke about unaffordable student dependent health care, declaring, “it stands in clear contradiction to our catholic mission and its social justice elements, and it appears to be hurting us academically, as we are behind many of our peers and aspirational peers.” a resolution of the Faculty senate recommended that “increas­ing the rate of dependent health care coverage … embodies the imperatives of catholic social Teaching toward human dignity, communal solidarity and tending to the needs of the poor.” and the graduate student union called upon the ad­ministration to “examine ways to support affordable access to health insurance for uninsured and underinsured student families as a matter of priority, both for the integrity of notre dame’s catholic character and for the competitiveness of the graduate school.” 
over the five years i have been involved with this issue, the administration has not once responded to these invoca­tions of notre dame’s catholic character. There have been resolutions and reports to recommend recognizing the dig­nity of these uninsured persons, a petition drive with over 300 signatures, a peaceful protest of families in front of the dome and many meetings. in all this, the president, provost, executive vice president and dean of the graduate school have never referred to the catholic teaching that health care is a human right. They have ignored it. and in so doing they have ignored the need of many, especially children, who require medical care. 
president John Jenkins has become an advocate for civil discourse in our highly polarized society, the subject of a forthcoming book he is authoring. in an address to emory university in 2011, he said of christian responsibility in the public square: 
“if i feel christian love and good will for the other side, then it would be my duty to persuade them … To stand apart, pro­claim my position and refuse to talk except to judge does not reduce evil or promote love. and if it does neither, how can it be inspired by god?” 
These are words that, if followed, would heal many vi­tuperative debates. and yet this ideal is absent from the administration’s dealings with uninsured student spouses and children.  There are many faculty, staff and students, as organizations and as individuals, who have publically and forthrightly advocated that the university must recognize the human dignity of these persons via affordable health insurance. 
rather than a respectful conversation on the meaning of the catholic teaching that health care is a human right, the administration has stood apart and refused to talk about this doctrine. i commend Fr. Jenkins on his advocacy for a more humane discourse, i simply wish that he and his fellow offi­cers could be the kind of leaders Fr. Jenkins would like others to be. The harm of ignoring this teaching is especially done to these uninsured children and spouses and to the catholic character of our community, yet it is also done to the legacy of Fr. Jenkins. 
Richard Klee is a doctoral candidate in theology and an undergraduate alumnus of the University of Notre Dame. He can be contacted at rklee2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

saturday night, eric hutchinson per­formed at legends for the second time, and he did so with plenty of flair. The concert was part of his tour to promote his album “almost solo” (a live version is currently available free at erichutchinson. com for the first million fans). opening for him was the fan-favorite from this week’s acousticafe: senior seamus donegan. 
The student performer gathered a crowd of his own, drawing loud cheers from the crowd the moment he walked on stage. he started off his five-song set with his cover of matt nathanson’s “Faster.” The song suited his vocal range perfectly and his acoustic style easily compliment­ed eric hutchinson’s folk pop sound. 
The highlight of donegan’s set list was easily his closing, a cover of onerepublic’s “counting stars” during which he called up the talented junior elizabeth curtin to sing back up. The song’s upbeat tones and quick tempo had the crowd danc­ing, ready for eric hutchinson to take the stage. 
unfortunately, in the interim between the opener and hutchinson, the energy of the crowd waned a bit. while legends continued to play songs from bands like capitol cities and of monsters and men, the loud tuning of instruments from the stage consistently drowned the music out. They seemed to have particular problems with one of the keyboards. despite this concerning break, they fixed it before hutchinson came on. 
he took the stage with dramatics, a blinding cacophony of lights heralding his arrival. his yellow pants, striped but­ton down and black blazer caused some comment amongst the crowd but it quick­ly faded to a cheery sing-along (or hum­ming for the majority who didn’t know the words) and occasional cheers as he started off his set. 
he built up the excitement in the first couple songs, inciting the crowd to sing along with him to “oh!” and pausing to make sure they did just that. hutchinson’s style is one that makes it hard not to sway along to the very slowest of his songs and dance excitedly to the fastest. 
midway through his set, he pointed out a sign made for a girl’s birthday and dedicated his next song to her, calling the crowd to silence as he prepared for one of his quieter songs. The crowd acquiesced after a fashion and hutchinson’s gift was the regretful song “breakdown more.” 
he followed this up with a cover of michael Jackson’s “The way you make me Feel,” starting the crowd moving again and had more of the crowd singing along to the classic hit. 
his longest introduction of the night was for his new song, “Tell the world.” he told a charmingly mundane story of lasagna as the impetus for the writing this song. The loudest cheer of the night came when he asked the crowd to greet the name of this new song as if they were truly excited and they did not disappoint. “Tell the world” was characteristic of hutchinson’s style, a little folksy with the type of rhythm that induces unconscious swaying. 
The mood obviously picked up when hutchinson played one of his more well-known songs, “watching you watch him.” The song was featured on “grey’s anatomy” before the release of his last album. 
hutchinson left the stage before per­forming his most famous song, “rock & roll” which was part of “The sisterhood of the Traveling pants 2” soundtrack. as the crowd cheered for an encore, it seemed unlikely he would leave without playing the hit. 
he came back on stage and opened his encore with a cover of the backstreet boys’ “i want it That way.” if a bit cheesy, the song is guaranteed to bring a certain level of excitement to a crowd and it cer­tainly served its purpose in ramping up the mood for the final song. 
he ended with “rock & roll,” satisfying those who came because they knew the one song and bringing the crowd to its big­gest moving point of the night. The crowd sang and danced along with hutchinson all the while. he ended his show with the same dramatics of his entrance, all of the lights shutting off as he ended his final song. 
all in all, the concert was worth brav­ing the rain that poured down on the walk over. hutchinson’s hits were fun to dance to and his lesser-known songs were great to hear and learn. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at                        cmoriari@nd.edu 

MARIA MASSA | The Observer WEI LIN | The Observer 

By GABRIELA LESKUR 
scene writer 

i’ve been to pemco’s musicals and the FTT departments’ plays before, but the collaboration between the two in “cabaret” was a whole new experience and a wonderful experience at that. 
set in 1930s berlin, “cabaret” switches between two main locations: a boarding house and a risqué nightclub, called the Kit Kat Klub. The chorus throughout the show poses as the erotic dancers of the Kit Kat Klub, led by their emcee (sopho­more anthony murphy) who narrates the entire musical. donning sparkly pasties, murphy did his best through his outlandish behavior to acclimate the audience to the extreme sexual nature of the show. at times, this was difficult. 
For example, the opening number had an immense shock factor and prob­ably made some people uncomfortable who did not know they would be seeing 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

last Thursday night, legends hosted a concert showcasing student bands and songwriters. The atmosphere was chilled out and comfortable — a welcome con­trast to many of the venue’s events. over the course of the night, students wandered in to cheer on their friends and soak in the homegrown music. it was the sort of place where a freshman like me can wander in alone and end up being pulled into the banter of friendly upperclassmen. 
The show was opened by sophomore gui­tarist/vocalist emily migliore. Thursday marked her first performance at legends; given her composure, one would never be able to tell. emily’s performance was characterized by weaving fingerpicked guitar lines held down by her warm alto voice. it’s the sort of voice found in the final a musical where most of the cast mem­bers are wearing only their underwear. however, once the audience realized the extent of sexual references and gyrating that would be occurring, a sense of calm returned — except to the old woman sit­ting nearby me, who continued to look forward in disapproval. 
The cast did a wonderful job allowing the sexual nature of the show to serve the deeper meaning in the plot. in the first half of “cabaret,” it appeared to be simply a show of fun and games. it would be easy to write off the musical as merely sensual, sensational entertain­ment. songs like “Two ladies” epito­mized this, with the emcee partaking in mimed group sexual positions with a woman and a man dressed in drag. however, right before intermission the audience was shown that this musical deals with much greater issues — pri­marily, the nazi regime. 
by setting the musical around a 
moments of an indie film, when the lead fe­male starts singing, and you’re like, “come on indie films, these random girls always end up with ridiculously good voices.” but no one was complaining. emily covered a host of songs ranging from indie classics to lesser-known tunes. highlights included (but were hardly limited to) crowd favor­ite “we’re gonna be Friends” by the white stripes, grin-along “lost in my mind” by The head and the heart, and that one magical note at the end of “broadripple is burning” (by margot and the nuclear so and so’s).  The set was comfy, cozy and over too soon. if you ever have the opportu­nity to see emily in concert and you don’t go, you, sir, are a scrub. 
next up was a classic notre dame band, basement Fish. The Fish are a local pow­erhouse; they’ve won two battles of the bands now. rumors are they’re prepping for a third victory before disbanding, since nightclub, “cabaret” takes a raw, origi­nal take on the plight of various types of individuals in germany right before the nazis came into power. The main story­line follows Kit Kat british showgirl sally bowles (played by senior brigid clary) as she falls in love with an american named cliff bradshaw (played by ju­nior chris siemann) who has come to berlin to teach english and work on a novel. clary truly captures the char­acter of sally bowles, expertly weaving rich depth into what might appear to be a somewhat naïve and selfish woman. her solos stole the show, especially her heart-warming rendition of “maybe This Time” and her heart-breaking per­formance of “cabaret.” siemann com­pliments clary well and their characters’ relationship, while odd, is believable. 
one of the side stories is that of the boarding house mistress Fraulein schneider (played by senior mary wheaton), and her lover, herr schultz 
most members of the band are seniors and will be taking off next year. with their set last night, it’s easy to see why this band is a winner. basement Fish goes, so to speak, hard in the paint. with thundering drums, powerful guitars and a lead singer who commands the microphones like a cham­pion, basement Fish plays big music. 
The setlist boasted a series of stadium-size covers spanning artists from The who to bruce springsteen as well as summer hits like “semi-charmed life” by Third eye blind and “only wanna be with you” by hootie & the blowfish. basement Fish throws a good party — next show, you should be sure to invite yourself over. 
For the final act, singer-songwriter se­nior amanda ly took the stage. starting out with a cover of red hands featur­ing uber-talented friend david augustus, amanda’s set was a testament to her ac­complishments as a musician. her songs (played by junior brian scully), who happens to be a Jewish fruit seller. wheaton and scully stole the hearts of the audience in their phenomenal por­trayal of pure love between two lonely, aging individuals. Their duet about love found in sharing a pineapple led to an audible “awww” from the audience, or from me at least. 
The dancing by the Kit Kat girls and boys brought a true professional edge to the show that was icing on the cake. 
“cabaret” is nothing like i’ve ever seen before. The show wove a genuinely poignant story of love and loss in nazi germany with extensive sexual content, without making it seem overdone or ex­plicit. The actors were all phenomenal and my friends and i may have shed a tear as we walked out. The epitome of a theatre-goers dream. 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at         gleskur@nd.edu 
are extraordinarily well written; to use the word “professional” would be an under­statement. Full of emotion and extremely well-executed, amanda’s songs are deeply personal and yet never stray into the realm of cloying sentimentality. every song i felt my heart nodding along with ly’s lyrics of love and strength. That kind of power is pretty rare these days. as ly said during the concert, each song is like “a message in a bottle, and if it touches at least one person, then it serves its purpose.” purpose served. 
all in all, the show was a huge success. with a number of talented musicians and a variety of styles, student band night was fit for any audience member — even one who didn’t personally know any of the bands. 
so next time it happens, wander on down to legends, sit back and enjoy the show. it’ll make you even more proud to be at nd. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 

MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Throwbacks bring fun to games 

Mary Green 
sports writer 
From a purely aesthetic stand­point, my favorite game of the year occurred yesterday: the day the steelers don their striped throwback uniforms. 
i’m not a steelers fan; i just love games when teams “go retro,” as my dad would say. They remind us of years past, of glori­ous or not-so-glorious times in an organization’s history. no matter how good a team was, at least its uniform looked good or looked so bad that it started to look good. 
now, without further ado, i present my definitive list of the best throwback uniforms in professional sports. 
Houston Astros 
obviously this is included on the list, falling into the so-bad­it-looks-good category. This is the jersey that comes to mind whenever i think “throwback.” The stripes across the front come in an array of sunshine-like col­ors that make the astros look like promoters of starbursts or Fanta, and the font of the team’s name screams 1960s. Throw in the white pants with the awkwardly large number on the top of the right leg, and you can picture nolan ryan winding up to de­liver a 100-miles-per-hour strike down the middle. 
i was disappointed when the astros decided to go in a cleaner, more streamlined direction with their newest uniform design, but credit to them for paying hom­age to the glory days of sports fashion with the noteworthy stripes along the side of their current batting practice jerseys. 
Tampa Bay Buccaneers 
next is the nFl’s best retro look, the creamsicle-colored unis debuted by the team in its first season, when it set a league record by finishing 0-14. while the color was a universally flat­tering hue that looked good on people of all shapes and sizes, especially 300-pound linemen, it was far from the best part of the uniform. 
That distinction belongs to the bucs’ helmet, with the flirtatious bucco bruce in the center. but seriously, the pirate is winking, clenching a sword between his teeth and wearing hat with a huge feather. without a doubt, he is the most suave mascot in his­tory, worthy of a spot on my list and a place in my heart. 
New England Patriots 
speaking of characters on helmets, the pats certainly bring a good runner-up to the discus­sion. nothing says “american” more than a colonial soldier hiking a football. The picture is probably a recreation of how the colonists celebrated christmas in 1776 after they crossed the delaware and surprised the hessians in Trenton, so his­torical accuracy certainly comes into play in my rankings. even more, this uniform’s colors are more distinctly patriotic with red, white and blue than new england’s current look of red, silver and blue. 
Anything from Pittsburgh 
The steel city knows how to rock the retro. The aforemen­tioned steelers take the no. 1 design with their striped yellow and black jerseys, complete with numbers that look like pieces of white paper taped onto the front. Throw in the matching striped socks, and you have quite the bumblebee-esque design. 
The pirates also chose to wear the signature stripes on the dia­mond, but theirs are found on their early-1900s bucket hats. This is the best use of victorian­era headgear in all of sports, fur­thering pittsburgh’s claim on the title of “best-dressed teams from one city,” as determined by me. 
last come the penguins and their ’90s sweater featuring the triangularly-shaped bird. before the pens turned flashy and replaced yellow with gold, they wore the marigold shade that has made its mark on all of pittsburgh’s teams, so it is only right that a city that coordinates its looks as well as pittsburgh does earns a spot on the list. 
The NBA 
Just for kicks and giggles, i would like to see david stern mandate a league-wide day in which all teams are required to wear the infamous short shorts. no luck so far, but a girl can hope, right? 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL 
Rainey leads Tampa Bay to win over Atlanta 
Associated Press 
Tampa, Fla. — it looks like bobby rainey finally may have found a nFl home. 
The diminutive running back, playing for his third team in less than two sea­sons, rushed for 163 yards and scored three touchdowns sunday to lead the Tampa bay buccaneers over the struggling atlanta Falcons 41-28. 
The waiver wire pickup fill­ing in for the injured doug martin and mike James scored on first-half runs of 43 and 3 yards. he then caught a 4-yard Td pass from mike glennon in the third quarter to help the bucs (2-8) win for the second straight time following an 0-8 start. 
The 5-foot-8, 212-pound rainey also rushed for 45 yards and scored the go-ahead touchdown in a 22-19 victory over miami the previous week. he’s been with the bucs just four games after beginning the season as a kick returner and backup running back with the cleveland browns. 
matt ryan threw an 80-yard Td pass to harry douglas, extending his streak of con­secutive games with at least one touchdown to 16 games. he threw a 6-yarder to roddy white in the fourth quarter, but also was sacked three times by Tampa bay’s gerald mccoy and had one of two in­terceptions returned 37 yards for a Td by linebacker mason Foster. 
The Falcons (2-8) have lost four straight by a combined score of 135-61. 
glennon completed 20 of 23 passes for 231 yards, two touchdowns and no intercep­tions. vincent Jackson caught a 3-yard Td pass and finished with 10 receptions for 165 yards. 
rainey entered the nFl as an undrafted free agent with baltimore after leav­ing western Kentucky as the hilltoppers’ career rushing leader. he was released once, re-signed to the ravens’ prac­tice squad and eventually wound up on the active roster before suffering a season-end­ing knee injury. 
baltimore went on to win the super bowl, and rainey received a championship ring despite not appearing in a reg­ular-season game as a rookie. 
The bucs opened the season with eight straight losses, with four of the setbacks coming in the final two minutes of regu­lation or overtime. They beat miami to become the last team in the league to win this sea­son, and played again sunday with a confidence that’s been building since an overtime loss at seattle two weeks ago. 

in addition to running the ball effectively for the third straight game, the bucs recov­ered an onside kick, picked up a first down on a play that began with a direct snap to running back brian leonard and pulled a couple more trick plays out their playbook that didn’t work 
— a halfback pass and punter michael Koenen’s long, cross-field throw on a fake field goal. 
and that was in the first half alone, while the bucs were building a 24-6 lead. 
rainey came off the bench after James broke his ankle during Tampa bay’s opening possession against miami. he had a 31-yard run before fin­ishing a fourth-quarter, go-ahead drive with his first nFl touchdown. with martin and James both sidelined for the year, the bucs will count on rainey heavily for the remain­der of the season. 
ryan completed 19 of 36 passes for 254 yards. he was replaced by dominique davis midway through the fourth quarter, but re-entered the game after the backup limped off the field with an injury. 
The Falcons trailed 41-13 be­fore antone smith scored on a 50-yard run and ryan threw his Td pass to white. 
Chicago 23, Baltimore 20 
chicago — The chicago bears had to wait out a long rain delay and put in extra 
time  to  come  away  with  a  
much-needed win.  
robbie  gould  kicked  a  

38-yard field goal to lift the bears to a 23-20 victory over baltimore sunday in a game delayed about two hours by a torrential downpour. 
Justin Tucker tied it for the ravens with a 21-yard field goal at the end of regulation. 
The big delay came after Tucker kicked a 52-yard field goal with 4:51 remaining in the first quarter. Fans were ordered to take cover. players headed to the locker rooms as heavy rains and winds whipped through soldier Field. They emerged about two hours later with the sky clearing and the sun coming out, but the rain and wind returned in the third quarter, turning the stands into a sea of ponchos. 
gould won it with a 38-yard­er on third-and-8 with 8:41 left in oT, and the bears (6-4) came away with the win after dropping four of six. 
They were leading 20-17 with 10:33 remaining in regu­lation after matt Forte scored on a 14-yard screen from Josh mccown, dodging three or four defenders along the way, but the ravens (4-6) made one big push down the stretch to send it to overtime. 
They drove from the 16 to the 2, getting a one-handed catch from dallas clark on a fourth down at 44. after Joe Flacco overthrew Torrey smith in the back of the end zone on third down, Tucker tied it at 20-all with 3 seconds left. 
mccown threw for 216 yards with Jay cutler sidelined by a high left ankle sprain. alshon Jeffery had seven catches for 83 yards. Forte added 42 re­ceiving and 83 rushing. 
Julius peppers had two sacks. david bass returned an interception for a touch­down, and Jonathan bostic set up a field goal by gould at the end of the first half with an interception. 
The ravens were able to get their ground game going, with ray rice rushing for 131 yards and a touchdown against a team that’s struggled to stop the run. but Flacco had a rough day, throwing for 162 yards and getting picked off twice. 
The bears scored 10 points in a 12-second stretch in the second quarter, on a 20-yard field goal by gould and a 24­yard interception return by bass. he picked off Flacco at the line and ran untouched to the end zone, chicago’s fourth interception return for a Td this season, but baltimore im­mediately answered with an 80-yard scoring drive. 
Flacco lofted a 5-yard scor­ing pass between two defend­ers to smith to put the ravens back on top, 17-10, with 4:08 left in the half. but an inter­ception at midfield by bostic with a minute left led to a 46­yard field goal by gould as time expired, making it a four-point game at the half. 
and what a strange half it was. 
play was stopped just after 
12:30 p.m. cT and didn’t re­sume until 2:25. There were reports of at least one tornado touching down in illinois and extensive damage in at least one part of the state. at soldier Field, long lines formed in the upper deck as drenched fans tried to make their way toward the tunnel with lightning striking near the stadium. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | The observer 

MEN’S SWIMMING | nd 197, michgan sT. 103; nd 191.5, wisconsin 108.5 
Notre Dame takes down Spartans, Badgers 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
after a month of competi­tion on the road, notre dame returned to the rolfs aquatic center on Friday and saturday for home meets, where they swept big Ten foes michigan state and wisconsin in a pair of dual meets. The irish (4-4) beat the spartans 197-103 and the badgers 191.5-108.5 and have won three of their last four dual competitions. 
The weekend meets mark the first time the irish have compet­ed since coach Tim welsh an­nounced his retirement effective at the end of the 2013-2014 cam­paign. with 29 years at the helm, the second-longest tenure of any notre dame head coach, welsh will turn the reigns over to long­time assistant matt Tallman. 
“i hope the announcement puts a sense of urgency into ev­erything we do,” welsh said.  “it makes every practice, and every workout exciting because my number of days left here is get­ting smaller.” 
The squad dove into the week­end in commanding fashion, winning 11 individual events against michigan state, includ­ing opening the meet with 10 wins in a row. notre dame set the tone early, winning the 200­yard medley relay with a time of 

1:30.54. The team bested its in­dividual event win total against wisconsin, winning 12 more in­dividual events to close out the weekend. 
“our performance this week­end was excellent. we love swim­ming at home and you could see that right away on Friday against a deep michigan state team,” welsh said.  “The team swam very well across the board.” 
all-americans senior Frank dyer and junior Zach stephens, who have consistently been the top scorers for the team, bolstered notre dame’s performance once again this weekend. against the badgers, the duo won eight of the team’s 12 individual events. dyer took home three first-place fin­ishes Friday and took home four more top finishes for the irish on saturday. stephens matched dyer on saturday, also bringing home four golds in the 100-yard and 200-yard breaststroke, the 200-yard individual medley and the 200-yard medley relay. 
dyer and stephens led the way for a number of strong perfor­mances from all over the irish roster. 
“saturday was a total team effort,” welsh said. “everyone raced very well individually and 
paid adverTisemenT 

side by side as a team. i thought the best part of the weekend, though, was the morale. our team spirit was the best i have seen this year.” 
on the diving boards, fresh­man Joseph coumos swept both the 1-meter and 3-meter against the badgers on saturday, and won the 1-meter on Friday. his performance included a career-best 381.52 points in the 3-me­ter board against wisconsin on saturday. Teammate junior michael Kreft, who won the 3-meter board with 375.60 points, joined coumos on the victory podium against michigan state. 
after the weekend sweep of the spartans and badgers, the irish will have two weekends without competition for the first time since the season began eight weeks ago. The team is back in action for its 2013 finale at the hawkeye invitational on dec. 6-8 in iowa city, iowa. 
“we are really excited about this break,” welsh said. “This past weekend allowed us to fin­ish a month of tough racing on a high note, and now we have the opportunity to and focus on im­proving for the next stretch of the season.” 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 
HOCKEY | nd 4, merrimacK 0; nd 2, merrimacK 2 
irish split series with merrimack 

By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 
on a weekend when irish senior goaltender steven summerhays was on top of his game, it took two crazy deflections for merrimack to get the puck past him. but the two scores were enough for the warriors (3-6-1, 0-3-1 hockey east) to salvage a 2-2 tie with the no. 4 irish (8-3-1, 2-1-1) on saturday night at compton Family ice arena. 
merrimack freshman forward vinny scotti erased a 2-1 irish lead with just 1:06 remaining in the game to rob notre dame of a weekend sweep after the irish took the first game of the series 4-0 on Friday. 
“The way it finished obviously [was disappointing],” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “both their goals were bounces, and that’s what makes it tough. i thought that given the circumstances our guys played pretty well.” 
The limits of notre dame’s forward depth came into play as the irish were forced to skate just three lines for most of the game, with regulars freshman vince hinostroza, sophomores steven Fogarty and Thomas dipauli, and senior michael voran all out with injuries. notre dame controlled the play for the game’s first two pe­riods, outshooting merrimack 25­12, but the warriors upped their play in the third and outscored the home team 14-6 over the final 20 minutes. 
“They’re playing four lines, and we’re playing three,” Jackson said. “it’s inevitable that you’re going to get a little tired, but i thought that for the most part our guys han­dled it really well. Third period they picked it up and started being more aggressive with their defen­semen that tired us out a little bit.” 
irish senior defenseman shayne Taker opened the scoring on the power play in the first period, ri­fling a wrist shot through a screen past merrimack junior goaltender rasmus Tirronen, and senior for­ward T.J. Tynan extended it to 2-0 in the second on a great individual effort. 
while killing a penalty, Tynan picked the pocket of a merrimack defenseman and beat two more warrior players to the net, sliding a backhand under Tirronen’s pads. 
“The positive for us is that we scored a power play goal and we scored a shorthanded goal,” Jackson said. “The penalty kill killed off penalties, and special teams kept us in the game tonight.” 
The warriors narrowed the lead to a goal late in the second when sophomore forward clayton Jardine one-timed a shot from the point that deflected off a notre dame defender and up and over summerhays. still down by a goal late in the third, the warriors pulled Tirronen with 2:06 remain­ing for an extra attacker, and the move paid off as a series of blocked shots resulted in scotti finding an open net with just over a minute remaining. 
“The fact that were up 2-1 with that situation, i’d take it again,” Jackson said. “we had two blocked shots on that, and the puck bounced right to their open guy.” 
neither team mustered strong chances in the overtime period, leaving the game in a tie. 
on Friday, summerhays stopped all 31 shots merrimack sent his way in leading notre dame to the 4-0 win. Freshman forward ali Thomas got the irish on the board in the second period with his first career goal, and two goals from junior forward peter schneider and a tally from sopho­more forward mario lucia provid­ed all the insurance summerhays would need. 
“i think [the warriors] were just throwing everything they could on net,” summerhays said. “i think they saw some of the minnesota game tape and noticed that i gave up some bad angle goals, but i thought we really limited their quality scoring chances.” 
The win was notre dame’s first home victory in a hockey east game, and the game began with a ceremonial puck-drop by hockey east commissioner Joe bertagna to mark the first hockey east game at compton. 
The irish now sit fourth in the conference standings and will travel to no. 16 massachusetts­lowell next weekend. 
Contact Conor Kelly at                     ckell17@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W BBall 
conTinued From page 16 
that. i think players that played with her felt it. you know, we kind of said `let’s do it for sky,’ and that didn’t work so well.” 
senior forward ariel braker scored the first point of the game with a free throw, and on the next play senior guard Kayla mcbride stole the ball from valparaiso sophomore guard Jessi wiedemann to set up a layup from sophomore guard Jewell loyd. in the next minute of play, layups by fresh­man forward Taya reimer, loyd and freshman guard lindsay allen put the irish (3­
0) up by nine. 
“lindsey did a really great job of pushing the ball,” mcgraw said. “she and Jewell were real­ly the sparks offensively, espe­cially early in the half when we really needed to get going, so i am really pleased with both of them.” 
but the crusaders did not cave in immediately. wiedemann dropped in two 3-pointers, and sophomore guard abby dean added an­other to keep the score a man­ageable 15-9. valparaiso stayed within striking distance un­til a three from junior guard madison cable stretched the irish lead to 13 with 6:38 re­maining in the first half. cable’s basket was the first in an 18-6 irish run that brought the score to 46-24 at halftime. 
by the opening minutes of the second half, it was clear the crusaders (0-3) had run out of gas. The irish scored the first 12 points of the period and domi­nated the rest of the game, stretching their lead to 50. after the game, valparaiso coach Tracey dorow said her team has struggled just to find enough healthy players to put on the floor. only nine crusaders played saturday, and the only one who played less than 13 minutes was Jazmin Taylor, a high jumper on the track team who agreed to play basketball just a few days earlier. 
“it was definitely a learning experience,” valparaiso junior forward sharon Karungi said. “They are really athletic and it was great to play against such athletic players. They definitely had the upper hand on the in­side and had a lot of players that were bigger than us but it gives us a great chance to learn.” 
mcgraw gave the transition game much of the credit in saturday’s win. 
“i thought it was the best our transition game has looked,” mcgraw said. “we really were running the floor well. we were rebounding well and get­ting the ball down the court. i was really pleased with that, it was an emphasis coming out of the half. we really wanted to get on the scoreboard early. defensively, we came up with some steals and that was a big key for us.” 
loyd led all scorers with 22 points, while allen scored 15, a career high. 
“[loyd] is really doing a good job on both ends, offensively and defensively,” mcgraw said. “she isn’t settling for shots and is attacking the basket. but she is in there fighting for rebounds all of the time. even if she doesn’t get it she is in there try­ing to tip it to a teammate. she is a lot more aggressive, looking to score and we need her to do that. she drives it, she shoots the three and she’s really hard to guard because you just don’t know what she is going to do.” 
senior forward liz horton 
scored  11  points  and  was  
the  only  crusader  in  the  
double-digits.  

as far as box-score oddities, reimer, a post player, finished the game with six assists, while guards allen and loyd com­bined for five. loyd, however, grabbed seven rebounds, while reimer corralled just one. 
“in the princeton offense the person in the post, Taya, has the ball in her hands a lot and she is going to get a lot of as­sists,” mcgraw said. “six assists for her is fantastic. i would like to see her rebound a lot more, though. i was disappointed in her rebounding today. she definitely needs to get on the boards more.” 
valparaiso coach Tracey dorow said she and her play­ers watched diggins induction ceremony before the game. 
“it’s a really neat thing for her. i worked at notre dame camp when she was a camper in about seventh or eighth grade and you could see even then that she was something special,” dorow said. “i was re­ally excited to be here and to be a part of the celebration. she’s a real class act. This was big for women’s basketball.” 
The irish have a nearly week-long layoff before they head to philadelphia to face penn in The palestra at 3 p.m. saturday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
sophomore midfielder patrick hodan and senior defender andrew o’malley scored for notre dame in regular time, and cavaliers sophomore midfielder Todd wharton (penalty kick), sophomore forward marcus salandy-defour and freshman forward nicko corriveau found the net for virginia. 
control of the game shifted be­tween the irish and the cavaliers as the goal total mounted. 
“a couple of times there were momentum shifts,” clark said. “we were up by two goals and given a penalty kick. if that goes in, that’s three goals and a bit of safety. [virginia’s] first goal was a big boost for them as a team, definitely a psychological boost for their team because it brought them within reach. when we got the third goal, we were winning 3-1 with eight or nine minutes to go and you thought that would have been the difference.” 
Three of the game’s six goals came in the final 10 minutes of regular time as virginia mounted a comeback. o’malley’s goal put the irish up 3-1 in the 81st min­ute, but the cavaliers responded with goals in the 85th and 87th minute to force overtime. 

“we’ll see them as lucky breaks, and they’ll see them as created opportunities, but that was the way the game fell,” clark said. 
it was not the first time the cavaliers felled the irish this year, as virginia handed notre dame its only loss of the regular season on oct. 26. The irish have allowed only 0.57 goals per game for the season, but the cavaliers managed to score two goals in the first meeting and netted three Friday. virginia is the only team to score multiple goals in a game against notre dame this season. 
The irish struck first with shipp’s goal in the 21st minute, and notre dame held the advan­tage with a 2-0 lead at halftime. sophomore midfielder connor Klekota passed the ball ahead to shipp who chased it into the box and shot the ball to the left of cavaliers redshirt junior goal­keeper calle brown for a goal. hodan then scored nearly 24 minutes later to extend notre dame’s lead to 2-0 shortly before the break. 
virginia found its stride in the second half, however. wharton converted a penalty kick in the 57th minute, and the cavaliers turned up the heat in the closing minutes of regular time. salandy­defour and corriveau sparked virginia’s comeback with their late goals and evened the score by the end of regulation. 
after two scoreless periods of overtime, the game came down to penalty kicks. shipp convert­ed for the irish, but brown saved shots from Klekota and hodan to set the irish back. The cavaliers held on to secure the 4-3 penal-ty-kick advantage and win the match. 
clark attributed the loss to a combination of virginia’s skill and irish mistakes. 
“There are a few things we can certainly improve on,” clark said. “virginia is a good team. They have very good attacking players who are very talented, so you have to give them credit for that, but at the same time we have to look at ourselves and see what we can do better.” 
The first round of the ncaa Tournament begins Thursday, and tournament seedings are announced today. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 


group.” 

W Soccer Diggins 
as with the other members 

conTinued From page 16 
conTinued From page 16 
of that group, diggins’s bas­

ketball career did not stop her onto the court for the with her time at notre dame. 
picking up on the scrap ball induction and remained by The Tulsa shock drafted her 
and making sure i got the ball her side throughout the cer-with the third overall pick 
into the net.” emony. The south bend na-in the 2013 wnba draft, and 
andrews’s two first-half tive said she chose to attend diggins earned a spot on the 
goals helped notre dame notre dame to remain close league’s all-rookie team af­
climb out of an early defi­to her familial support sys-ter her first season. however, 
cit. The irish fell behind in tem for four more years. she said she still is not sure 
the fifth minute of action “They’re a major, major what the future holds for her. 
when iowa junior defender part of the reason i stayed “i want to do so many 
melanie pickert launched [in south bend],” she said. things, and not just on the 
a penalty kick past notre “i wanted them to be a part basketball level,” she said. 
dame freshman goalkeep­of my college experience. “i’m working on a lot of things 
er Kaela little to put the notre dame is a great uni-now. i don’t know what i want 
hawkeyes (15-7-1, 5-5-1 big versity, and it sells itself, to do because i want to do 
Ten) on the board. but my family was a big rea-so much. … [i’m] just slowly 
“i thought the reaction to son why i stayed around and painting my masterpiece.” 
the [iowa goal] was great,” stayed closed to home. … one thing is certain: as 
waldrum said. “we were on it’s just great having a tight-long as purcell pavilion 
top of it early. i thought we knit family and people that stands, diggins’ no. 4 will 
were really good tonight, hopefully, we can now build added an insurance goal in are there for you to keep you hang in the rafters, remind-
especially with our ball on that and keep it going.” the 87th minute when she grounded.” ing players, fans and visitors 
possession and the oppor-notre dame reversed its took sophomore defender The four-time all-of one of the most accom­
tunities we created. i felt recent trend of second-half brittany von rueden’s cor­american and the only notre plished athletes in notre 
like if we could get the first struggles when Tucker add-ner kick and headed a shot dame player to pick up 2,000 dame history. 
one back in the first half, it ed a goal in the 53rd minute into the middle of the goal. points, 500 assists and 500 “i never wanted to leave 
would be okay.” to give the team a 3-1 lead. with the victory, notre rebounds in her career joined this university,” diggins said 
The hawkeyes managed The senior captain received dame improved to 46-3 all-former irish legends ruth to the crowd at the ceremony. 
only three more shots after the ball on the far side of time in ncaachampionship riley, austin carr, adrian “i grew up always wanting to 
pickert’s early goal, as notre the field and beat a few iowa games at home and 7-0 all­dantley and luke harangody come here, and i lived in this 
dame largely controlled defenders before firing in a time in ncaachampionship in the ring of honor. gym. i never wanted to leave 
possession and kept the ball shot from 13 yards out. games at alumni stadium. “i join such an elite group this gym. i wanted to be here 
in iowa’s half of the field. “we’ve been dancing notre dame will advance of players who have done so forever. and now i have that 
notre dame outshot iowa around these one-goal to play western michigan, much for our basketball pro-opportunity.” 
32-4 and held a 13-2 advan-games in the acc for this who upset no. 8 marquette, grams here at the university,” 
tage in shots on goal. last month it seems like, and 1-0, in its first-round game, diggins said. “i’m so blessed Contact Mary Green at 
“i think getting more we’ve had trouble hanging in the second round of the to be a part of such an elite mgreen8@nd.edu 
numbers in the attack and onto that lead, so i think it ncaa championship. The 
getting a little more bal-was important that we got irish and broncos (12-5-5, 
ance in our midfield helped that second goal to put a lit-7-2-2 mac) will meet Friday 
“we knew that they were go­[our offense] out quite a bit,” tle bit of cushion,” waldrum at 4 p.m. in ann arbor, mich. 

M BBall 
waldrum said. “we needed said. 
ing to respond,” senior guard eric 

conTinued From page 16 
to try to find a way to start notre dame sophomore Contact Brian Hartnett at we made our run, and they made atkins said. “it’s a game of runs. 
scoring a few more goals. defender Katie naughton bhartnet@nd.edu three-point deficit into a 10-point their run to take the lead right 
paid adverTisemenT 
lead. back. we didn’t respond after 
“They hit a lot of shots,” senior that, and that’s what hurt us right guard Jerian grant said. “They’re there.” a really good team. we just got to indiana state responded with keep focusing in defensively. when a 22-6 run. six different indiana teams go on a run like that, we can’t state players scored during the just stop playing.” spurt. The 15-point sycamore 
sophomore guard Khristian lead was the largest of the game smith spurred the sycamores dur-for the visitors, and the irish nev­ing the run, scoring all nine of his er got closer than eight points the first-half points during the spurt. rest of the way. he finished with 15 points on “we kind of let up a little bit,” 6-of-11 shooting. grant said. “we felt like, after we 
“it creeps into our minds that took the lead, this was our game. ‘we can do this. we can do this,’” we had to keep playing, and you smith said. “we know that we saw what happened.” can, but it takes the first four Junior forward Justin gant led minutes of energy and effort to indiana state with 17 points as show we can.” the sycamores had five players in 
in the first half, indiana state double-figures. buried eight of 17 3-pointers, five grant scored 17 points, while during a 2:37 stretch, and built junior forward pat connaughton up a 10-point lead by the break. had 16 for the irish. The sycamores shot 55 percent atkins led notre dame with 18 (11-for-20) from behind the arc points and became the 54th play-for the game. er in school history to score 1,000 
“They’re not larks,” brey said. points in his career. “These guys can shoot the ball, last season, indiana state and they were really loose shoot-knocked off two ranked teams ing in here.” (wichita state and creighton) 
Keyed by 10 points off five and the eventual acc champion indiana state turnovers, the irish (miami). opened the second half with a “you could say i should have 15-4 run. my head examined to schedule 
notre dame took the lead them third game of the year,” when sophomore forward austin brey said. burgett converted on an and-one The irish will look to bounce opportunity with 15:06 left in the back Friday night when they take second half. it was notre dame’s on santa clara at 9 p.m. at purcell first lead since 5-4 early in the pavilion. first half. 
but the irish lead lasted just 21 Contact Matthew DeFranks at seconds. mdefrank@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: rachel mcadams, 35; dylan walsh, 50; danny devito, 69; martin scorsese, 71. 
Happy Birthday: Follow through with your ideas and plans. stabilize your position and your emotions through precise and calculated decisions. own your life by doing what’s best for you. don’t give in to pressure or those putting unreasonable demands on you. look for unique solutions and you will find a way to fight any dilemma you face this year. your numbers are 8, 11, 20, 23, 31, 35, 49. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): personal changes will boost your confidence. catch up on correspondence and make a point of re-evaluating your goals and strategizing about the best way to move forward. don’t let someone from your past disrupt your present. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): creative, romantic gestures will heighten a meaningful relationship. plan a day trip that offers pampering, entertainment and fine food. Future plans can be made and goals set, but don’t push your luck if faced with someone authoritative. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): look out for your interests. someone will misinform you. avoid taking a financial risk. stick to what you know and the people you trust. be prepared to make a sudden and unexpected move if it will spare you loss. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): plan a fun-filled day with the ones you love. put your heart on the line and speak openly and freely about your personal and professional plans for the future. sharing your concerns and your dreams will give you strength to follow through. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): personal matters will cloud your vision. before taking a stance or undergoing change, get to the root of the problem. don’t let your generos­ity or good nature be taken for granted. loyalty must be offered before you give back. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): get together with old friends or reunite with someone you used to be in love with. reconnecting will bring back memories and valuable lessons that will allow you to move ahead without regret or the feeling of loss. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): emotional problems revolving around money, medical or legal matters can be expected. ask questions and get to the bottom of any issue that has left you perplexed. be prepared to cut your losses and move on if necessary. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): embrace those you love and share common interests with and you will form a close bond and a working relationship that can help you advance personally and professionally. make creative and accommodating altera­tions to your living space. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep everything out in the open or you may be accused of being deceptive. Fix up your living space and make personal changes that will raise your profile or update your image. don’t let love lead to an impulsive move you’ll regret.  

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): do a little networking or take time to initiate plans that will influence the way you move forward professionally. a home improvement project will add to your assets and to your comfort. love is in the stars and romance should be initiated. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let anyone bring you down. if you project a happy-go-lucky attitude, you can ward off any negativity that comes your way. revert back to things you used to enjoy doing and you will have a great time. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): engage in property projects that get your family, friends or whoever you share your living or community space with to pitch in and help. having a plan will also put you in a leadership position that can transform into a prosperous offer. 

Birthday Baby: you are curious and respond quickly. you are kind, gentle and loving. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


MEN’S BASKETBALL | indiana sTaTe 83, noTre dame 70 
Irish fall to Sycamores 
Notre Dame loses at home in November for first time under head coach Mike Brey 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
The last time notre dame lost in november at home, bob davie was the football coach. 
Three football coaches later, the no. 21 irish fell to indiana state 83­70 on sunday afternoon at purcell pavilion. The loss was the first in november at home since 1998 and the first such defeat under coach mike brey. 
“i guess it has to come to an end,” brey said. “They’re really a good team. it would have been a good résumé win for us.” 
The loss also snapped a 30-game non-conference home winning streak for the irish (2-1). 
“some stuff hit the fan in mid­november,” brey said. “There’s go­ing to be more stuff hitting the fan. how do we react?” 
The irish turned the ball over 16 times in the game while only notching 13 assists. The sloppy per­formance was uncharacteristic of brey’s teams, who have finished in the top 10 in assist-to-turnover ra­tio in each of the last eight seasons. 
The sycamores (2-1) jumped out ahead of the irish early after notre dame was unable to take care of the basketball. notre dame turned the ball over nine times in the first half, including seven times in the first 8:34. at the under-12-minute media timeout, notre dame had as many points as it did turnovers. 

“Those are just so deflating for a team that has, historically, taken really good care of the ball,” brey said. “The wind came out of the sails.” 
The irish had seven turnovers to­tal in each of their first two games. The sycamores turned the notre dame miscues into 13 points in the opening period. 
indiana state used a 17-2 run over 11:58 in the first half to turn a 
see m bball PAGE 14 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Senior forward Tom Knight backs down a defender during Notre Dame’s 80-49 victory over Stetson on Nov. 10 at Purcell Pavilion. 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | noTre dame 4, iowa 1 
ND overwhelms Iowa 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
notre dame freshman mid­fielder morgan andrews has played a variety of roles for her team in her first collegiate season. on Friday night, she added a new one to her résumé 
— designated penalty taker. 
andrews converted notre dame’s first penalty kick of the season in the 38th min­ute and added another goal six minutes later to spur the irish to a 4-1 victory over iowa in the first round of the ncaa championship on Friday at alumni stadium. 

after irish junior forward lauren bohaboy was fouled to set up the penalty kick, andrews left little doubt as to who would step up for notre dame (12-7-1, 7-5-1 acc) against iowa sophomore goal­keeper hannah clark. 
“[andrews] was already raising her hand as she was walking from outside the pen­alty box to let everybody know she got it,” irish coach randy waldrum said. “we didn’t even have to say anything to the team to say, ‘let morgan take it.’” 
andrews drove home a shot inside the right post to beat 
clark,  who  dove  toward  the  
left side of the goal.  
in  the  44th  minute,  the  

freshman took a feed from irish senior defender elizabeth Tucker and fought through several defenders to knock a shot into the lower right corner of the net. 
“it was a great assist by Tucker, getting that ball into the box, and then it was just really a fight,” andrews said of the goal. “i think it was just 
see w soccer PAGE 14 
MEN’S SOCCER | virginia 3, nd 3 (virginia 4, nd 3 pKs) 
notre dame loses in acc tourney 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
no. 12 virginia knows how to cause trouble for the no. 1 irish. 
The cavaliers knocked notre dame out of the acc championship with a semifinal win on penalty kicks Friday in campus park, md. 
after battling through regula­tion and two overtimes in a 3-3 tie, virginia (11-4-4, 5-3-4 acc) con­verted four penalty kicks to three for the irish (12-2-5, 7-2-3). 
both sides played well and made the game exciting, irish coach bobby clark said. 
“it was a terrific soccer game,” clark said. “it was a terrific ex­ample of college soccer, with two teams trying to win it. when we went ahead, they fought really hard to get back in the game and pres­sured hard.” 
irish senior forward harry shipp, 
see m soccer PAGE 12 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | noTre dame 96, valparaiso 46 
diggins honored before victory over valparaiso 
Former guard added to Ring of Honor 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
The lights dimmed, the spotlight turned on and notre dame’s biggest star returned for one last encore as skylar diggins claimed her spot in the irish ring of honor on saturday at purcell pavilion. 
before her former team tipped off against valparaiso, diggins was honored in the pregame ceremony, which included a video of her highlights during her col­lege career, congratulations from athletic director Jack swarbrick and several stand­ing ovations. The loudest ap­plause of all came when the banner with diggins’ no. 4 unfurled from the purcell pavilion rafters, the apex of the ceremony. 
“That’s  something  i  
dreamed  about,”  diggins  
said  in  her  pre-ceremo­ 
ny  press  conference.  “you  

dream about stuff like this happening. it’s not a goal, ultimately. you just kind of play the game to win, to be competitive and to represent notre dame the best that i could, and [represent] south bend and my family. 
“but the experiences i had here were so special, and the memories we made here, what we were able to accom­plish, is so special, so this does not only represent my­self, but also my family and my teammates and coaches and those that paved the way before me.” 
diggins’ parents, renee and maurice scott, escorted 
see diggins PAGE 14 


EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 
Sophomore guard Jewell Loyd gets in a defensive stance against UNCW on Nov. 9 at Purcell Pavilion. Notre Dame won 99-50. 
ND pulls away after slow start 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
it took two minutes and 20 seconds for the no. 6 irish to score their first field goal of the game saturday, but valparaiso never recovered from the en­suing 9-0 run and the irish grabbed the win, 96-46. 
irish coach muffet mcgraw blamed the scattered play of the first few minutes on the pre-game induction of former guard skylar diggins into the ring of honor. 
“no more emotional pre­game ceremonies. we got off to such a slow start. i thought it was the emotion of the day that was the problem,” mcgraw said. “i needed a tissue after 
see w bball PAGE 12 




