

The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

COMMENTARY 

struggling defense will determine fate 

Andrew Gastelum 
editor-in-chief 
Irish defensive coordinator bob diaco has to be calling 5-1-1. Without no. 5, this defense just looks lost. 
There is not one person who stands out, yet at the same time there is not one person who has really fallen short either. various media outlets are currently pick­ing on Keivarae russell. Last week it was stephon Tuitt. next week it will probably be Jaylon smith’s turn. 
but the point remains: no one sticks out or stands out in any fashion. That is, at least to the fans. 
To opposing offenses, there are two gigantic, gargantuan stand­outs and their focus on these two is even greater. To opposing of-

Without No. 5, this defense just looks lost. 
fenses, the only greater goal than limiting Louis nix and stephon Tuitt is putting points up on the scoreboard. 
What most see are the low numbers this dynamic duo provides in comparison to last season when their numbers were bigger than they were. nix only has eight tackles and zero sacks through the first three games. meanwhile, Tuitt has four tackles and one sack. 
but all of that has been against double teams, triple teams, quick runs, three-step drops and pass­es away from their 66 percent of the defensive line. dan Fox, Jarrett Grace and carlo calabrese are reaping the benefits of op­posing offensive lines keying on nix and Tuitt, as the three inside linebackers are the three leading tacklers on the Irish. 
but this whole “next-man-in” philosophy has taken off to a completely different level. no philosophy can replace “that man.” This defense has plenty of seasoning to it and some stern voices among it, but there is no face to it. As the diaco saying goes, sometimes you have to throw some “chili powder” into the recipe to bake a different kind of cake when you run out of vanilla. 
but not when it is supposed to be a vanilla cake. 

With the loss of that man, this Irish defense went from cake boss to north dining hall: excit­ing and dynamic to just generic and a little strange at times. 
As I said in this space last week, notre dame cannot con­tinue to run off the success and energy of last season. That was evident when michigan quar­terback devin Gardner turned into colin Kaepernick with both his eyebrows and Purdue quar­terback rob henry became Joe Flacco. 
Who does this Irish defense turn to in order to lead it? It seems like a difficult job for bennett Jackson to do as a member of the secondary since he plays along the margins of the field. It also doesn’t help his status that Jackson has to play man coverage, expecting a blitz to hurry the quarterback into a tizzy, only to find out said gunslinger has an entire open canvas in front of him and time to paint it downfield. 
If there is one major compari­son to make between last year’s and this year’s team, it’s that this defense is going to have to carry the load once again and lead notre dame to a bcs bowl. It’s that this defense is going to be the meal ticket once again, whether brian Kelly believes it or not. 
The only problem: They’re trying to make a vanilla cake and they’ve run out of vanilla quite some time ago. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu                        
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
RECRUITING 



Tranquill lone visit as Irish enter ‘dead’ period 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
There may be only one 2014 prospect taking an official visit to notre dame this weekend, but the Irish still have a strong chance of garnering their 17th commitment from the senior class. 
Fort Wayne, Ind., native drue Tranquill, who committed to Purdue on July 23rd and received an offer from notre dame soon thereafter, will visit south bend this weekend just a week after his official visit to Purdue to take in the primetime matchup between the Irish and the boilermakers. notre dame recruiting expert mike Frank, who runs the esPn­affiliated Irish sports daily, says concerns over Tranquill’s fit on the notre dame defense are like­ly holding up a decision. 
“I think drue likes the idea of notre dame quite a bit, but I’m not sure he’s sold on the fact that they’re recruiting him as a linebacker. I think sometimes he thinks he’s a safety prospect,” Frank said. “so I’m not exactly sure which way that’s going to go. I think it all depends on how he fits in with all the players this weekend. … And then I also think it depends on what they talk to him about as far as his po­sition and how he’ll adapt.” 
Frank did say there is the pos­sibility notre dame could view Tranquill as a safety after the news that broke in late August that former notre dame safety chris badger is transferring. esPn rates Tranquill as the eighth-best player in Indiana and classifies him as the no. 82 outside linebacker in the nation. 
outside of Tranquill, Frank said most of the major 2014 movement should come in the next few weeks, when roughly a dozen prospects will make offi­cial visits for either the oklahoma or Usc games. For now, Frank characterized activity as “dead.” 
news, however, has surfaced recently that Florida athlete and Alabama commit bo scarbrough may consider an official visit to notre dame. scarbrough, whom esPn ranks as the no. 20 player in the nation, profiles as a run­ning back. The Irish are currently without a back in the class of 2014 after elijah hood decom­mitted from notre dame on Aug. 20 and pledged to in-state north carolina shortly after. 
scarbrough, however, has been committed to the crimson Tide for over a year. Frank said until the 6-foot-2, 215-pounder steps foot on campus at notre dame, the Irish can only be considered a long shot, though that could be­gin to change with a visit. 
“First of all, [Irish assistant coach and recruiting coordina­tor] Tony Alford is recruiting him and you can’t count notre dame out for anybody when [Alford] is recruiting them,” Frank said. “[Freshman running back] Greg bryant was committed to oklahoma for a while and then backed off and nobody thought notre dame had much of a shot at him. but Tony just keeps sell­ing, selling and selling his vi­sion for what Greg could be at notre dame and all it took was a trip and he bought into it and committed.” 
breaking down the 2014 commits 
of notre dame’s 16 commit­ments in the class of 2014, Frank highlighted eight he considers to be particularly intriguing. 
“I love the two wide receivers,” Frank said. “I mean notre dame has a lot of wide receivers right now but I think corey holmes and Justin brent can easily com­pete with the vast amount of tal­ent they have on campus right now.” 
holmes, from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is the 77th-best player in the nation, according to esPn. brent, who hails from Indianapolis and plays for speedway senior high school, has played running back for the sparkplugs out of neces­sity. Frank said brent could make the switch to running back at notre dame if the Irish feel thin in the backfield and well-stocked at receiver. 
Frank said Tennessee offensive lineman Alex bars is probably the closest to seeing early playing time at notre dame, whether he lines up at tackle or guard. Frank added that new Jersey offensive lineman Quenton nelson has versatility on the line and a body that suggests a quick transition to the collegiate game. 
Frank highlighted california defensive end matt dickerson and missouri linebacker Jonathan bonner as two underrated play­ers, defensively, in addition to Illinois tight end nic Weishar. 
meanwhile, Frank said he is also high on Florida linebacker richard Yeargin III, who Frank described as “relentless in his pursuit.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com 
Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2013 | The observer 






By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Associate sports editor 
There are no doubts about davaris daniels’ ability. 
his speed, talent and power are a matter of the public record, on display across the web and, inter­mittently, for live viewing on foot­ball saturdays. What the public is left to wonder, then, is when the player seen jumping off the screen in highlight videos will come to play every down. 
The Irish junior receiver is com­ing off a career game, turning heads and dropping jaws, but also begging the question: can he be as consistent as he is exciting? 
“That’s been my main focus, even this offseason, coming into this season,” daniels said. “Just trying to stay consistent. And we’ve still got a long season ahead of us so I’m working at that every day.” 
entering 2013 as the clear no. 2 receiver behind senior tri-captain TJ Jones, daniels has become the ultimate X-factor for the Irish of­fense. Jones is a well-defined entity with 33 starts under his belt, as is senior quarterback Tommy rees, who has ascended into the top six in program history in both passing yards and passing touchdowns in his 21 starts. notre dame’s run­ning game showcases a bevy of talent, and while the production thus far has been moderate, the position has been, at worst, consis­tent. As for daniels, consistency is the dimension of his game most in need of significant improvement, Irish coach brian Kelly said. 
“Well, he’s two quarters of the way,” Kelly said of daniels’ de­velopment. “he needs to be four quarters of the way. he can obvi­ously impact a football game. We want him to impact it four quar­ters, and he’s capable of doing that.” 

descriptors like ‘high ceiling’ cling to daniels, but mostly as a way to denote the sentiment that he is still standing with his feet on the ground, yet to reach his full potential. And perhaps that is the most remarkable thing about the wide-out. daniels is leading the team with 299 yards receiving and four touchdowns through three games, well on pace to shatter his career highs in all categories, and yet the areas in which he can stand to improve remain a ma­jor part of the conversation sur­rounding him. 
“You know, to be that great play­er, you’ve got to have it all going for you in everything that you do, and he’s growing up and he’s get-games of the 2012 regular season with a broken collarbone, daniels returned for notre dame’s 42-14 loss to Alabama in the national championship, compiling 115 yards on six receptions. 
“You know, having the game that he did against one of the top defenses in the nation on one of the biggest stages you can have it in college football, I think it defi­nitely helped his confidence and gave him kind of that push lead­ing into the offseason to work that much harder heading into this season,” Jones said. 
Just a quarter of the way through notre dame’s regu­lar season, daniels has already made 2013 a breakout campaign for himself. Just 1:26 into notre 

“He’s two quarters of the way. He needs to be four quarters of the way.” 
Brian Kelly Irish coach 

ting better,” Kelly said. “but there’s definitely more there for him to grow into. 
“It just requires, you know, that mental approach, which is com­ing, you know. And you can see it. I mean, you can see it in practice. You can see it in the way he’s ma­turing off the field. he’s doing all the little things.” 
Although an upperclassman, daniels is still relatively young in terms of field experience. After not seeing game action as a freshman, daniels caught 31 balls, racked up 490 reception yards and made three starts in 11 games in 2012. Although he did not find the end zone in his sophomore season, daniels averaged a team-leading 
15.8 yards per reception. After missing the final two dame’s season-opening win over Temple, daniels ran a post route and snatched a 32-yard pass from rees out of the air to secure his first career touchdown. on notre dame’s very next possession just 
3:15 later, daniels hauled in a twin 32-yard touchdown pass from rees. daniels’ quick start to his junior season signaled the arrival of an added dimension to the Irish offense, Kelly said. 
“Well, certainly it gives us an­other big-play receiver,” he said. “I think TJ has shown his abil­ity to be that guy, as well now you have daniels that can certainly get down the field and make big plays. It definitely stretches the field for us. certainly our ability now to vertically push the ball enhances what we want to do now with both of those guys.” 
The quick start did not make daniels complacent, however, as the receiver readily acknowledged he has areas of his game he would like to develop. 
“my route running, things like that,” daniels said. “Just trying to have an overall complete craft is something that I kind of focused in on this offseason. so I’m just try­ing to keep getting better and bet­ter at that and see what happens.” 
daniels said some of the in­creased focus on refining his routes has already paid dividends this year, most recently by freeing him for the first of his two touch­down receptions against Purdue on saturday. still, daniels said his success thus far represents a step in the right direction rather than an arrival at the finished product. 
“I think I’m getting there,” the vernon hills, Ill., native said. “I’m still working, I still gotta work ev­ery day. There’s a lot of things I can improve on. You know, I came a long way, but I’ve still got a ways to go.” 
“he’s developed a lot,” Jones added. “From last year to this is night and day. but the sky’s the limit for him. As long as he keeps pushing, working hard, stays ded­icated — who knows how far he’ll go, how great he’ll be.” 
daniels offered the most sig­nificant glimpse yet of how great he can be with his second touch­down reception against the boilermakers. In the fourth quar­ter of a tie game, daniels snagged a pass from rees on the sideline and battled off boilermakers se­nior cornerback ricardo Allen, finishing his 82-yard score with a powerful stiff arm. 
“That’s the physicalness that we need to play with … and he displayed it,” Jones said. “he basi­cally pushed [Allen] to the ground 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

and scored a touchdown in a clutch situation.” 
As impressive as the touchdown was from a physical perspective, the circumstances surrounding the play were equally significant. With the catch and run, daniels showed himself to be a player ca­pable of answering the call in a big situation. 
“[A consistent player is] some­body that you know is going to make a play when a play needs to be made,” daniels said. “And somebody that’s going to do it over and over again. And that’s the type of person I want to be and am practicing to become. 
“That’s all practice. That’s all mindset. You know, going into games, you have to have that mindset that, ‘I’m going to be that guy.’ And that’s what it comes down to.” 
If the opening three contests of the 2013 season are any indi­cation, daniels will have plenty more opportunities to prove he can consistently deliver in high-pressure situations. Jones said daniels is on the right track to turn into that player he wants to be. 
“You know, once you make that first clutch play … you’re more comfortable with yourself, you’re more comfortable with your game,” Jones said. “he’s devel­oped as a person and an athlete and kind of gets to see the results of what he put in the work for all these months off.” 
The physical tools have been there. The focus and the consis­tent will to perform in key mo­ments are getting there, by all accounts. If everything comes to­gether for daniels, he could turn his blistering start into a standout season. how high the Irish offense will reach this season relies, in large part, on where their X-factor is able to take them. Although he is not looking at his role in such broad terms, daniels’ commit­ment to consistency could be just what notre dame needs this year. 
“You want to come off the field at the end of the season saying, you know, ‘I did everything I could,’” he said. “The end result is going to be the end result, no mat­ter what. so the only thing that you can really do is focus on today and try to get better and do the things that you know you can do on a consistent basis.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 



Observer File Photo KEVIN SONG | The Observer 




only surrendered 112.7 yards-per-game, al­though last week’s dominant effort against the boilermakers, in which the Irish held Purdue to only 38 rushing yards, stands in stark contrast to the games against Temple and michigan, who accumulated 134 and 166 yards rushing, respectively. If notre dame can approximate its performance from last week, it should be more than enough. 
EDGE: EVEN 

SPARTANS OFFENSIVE COACHING 
recently-hired co-offensive coordinator Jim bollman brings 36 years of experience, including 11 seasons as the offensive coordi­nator at ohio state (2001-2011). bollman will split the offensive coordinator duties with dave Warner, who has served as the quarter­backs coach for the spartans during the past six seasons. bollman, Warner and the rest of the decision-makers at michigan state have presided over a quarterback situation in flux, although cook presumably secured the job for the time being by throwing four touchdowns last week. Field-goal forma­tions might make Irish fans flinch as long as dantonio still roams the sideline, and notre dame is still figuring things out on defense, but diaco gets the edge here. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
SPARTANS SPECIAL TEAMS 
senior kicker Kevin muma handles both the kickoff and placekicking duties for michigan state, and he has handled them well this season. spartans Junior punter mike sadler has sent his punts 41.2 yards on average. The spartans’ punt returners have averaged 9.6 yards-per-return, most of which has come from sophomore receiver Andre sims, Jr.      
EDGE: MICHIGAN STATE 
SPARTANS SCHEDULE (3-0) 
Aug. 30  Western Michigan  W  26-13  
sept. 7    South Florida  W  21-6  
sept. 14  Youngstown State  W  55-17  
sept 21  @ Notre Dame  
oct. 5  @ Iowa  
oct. 12  Indiana  
oct. 19  Purdue  
oct. 26  @ Illinois  
nov. 2  Michigan  
nov. 16  @ Nebraska  
nov. 23  @ Northwestern  
nov. 30  Minnesota  




Andrew Gastelum 
editor-in-chief 

Things are starting to catch up to this Irish team. The offense is like a stalling car before finally getting going af­ter a few tries and the defense is doing just enough to keep things close from the get go. 
over the past two seasons, the Irish have straight up embarrassed the spartans both here and up in east Lansing. but unlike Purdue, michigan state actually has the talent to do something about it and strike back with some clout of its own. Unranked and undervalued, the spartans are out for revenge and notre dame is most likely looking towards a showdown with oklahoma next week. 
The troubles start here for the Irish, and 2-2 looks pretty scary considering where they were last year at this point, coming off a major win over michigan in week four. 
FINAL SCORE: michigan state 27, notre dame 24 



Matthew DeFranks 
Assistant managing editor 
    In the next four weeks, notre dame will play the no. 1 de­fense in the country, the player who scored the first rushing touchdown on them in 2012, a defensive line that rivals their own and Usc. And it all starts with a date against michigan state this weekend.
    The spartans have had their troubles with the Irish in the past two years, losing by an average of 17.5 points per game and scoring just eight points per game. but if these past two games have taught us anything about notre dame, it’s that this is not last year’s team. They are not the same on defense and are mysteriously improved on offense, putting up nearly 30 points per game.
    The Irish defense should return to form (somewhat) against a very questionable spartan offense but Tommy rees has another solid performance to lead the Irish to 3-1. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 20, michigan state 10 



HEAD TO
3:30 P.M. NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
MICHIGAN STATE 


(So.) Aaron Burbridge


WR
 (Jr.) Tony Lippett 14 
(So.) Donavon Clark


LT 
 (r-Fr.) Jack conklin 74 
(5th) Blake Treadwell


LG 
 (r-Fr.) Kodi Kieler 79 
(So.) Jack Allen


C 

 (Jr.) Travis Jackson 63 
(Jr.) Jeremy Langford
(Jr.) nick hill 20 
RB (5th) Dan France


RG 
 (Jr.) connor Kruse 54 
(So.) Connor Cook

QB (R-Fr.) Jack Conklin
 (sr.) Andrew maxwell 10 


RT 
 (5th) Fou Fonoti 51 
(Jr.) Michael Dennis 


TE
(Jr.) Andrew Gleichert 92 
(Jr.)Keith Mumphery


WR
 (5th) bennie Fowler 13 
(So.)Macgarrett Kings, Jr.


WR
 (so.) Andre sims, Jr. 21 
(So.) Trae Waynes

CB 
(Fr.) darian hicks 2 
(Jr.) Taiwan Jones 


OLB 
(5th)Jairus Jones 23 

(Jr.) Kurtis Drummond 

S (Jr.) Shilique Calhoun 
(r-Fr.) demetrious cox 7 


DE 
(sr.) denzel drone 42 

(6th) Tyler Hoover


DT 
(so.) damon Knox 93
(Sr.) Max Bullough
MLB 
(so.) darien harris 45 
(5th) Micajah Reynolds


NT
(so.) mark scarpinato 97 
(Sr.) Isaiah Lewis 

(Jr.) Marcus Rush 
S 


(so.) rJ Williamson 26 (so.) Joel heath 92 
DE 
(5th) Denicos Allen 



OLB 
(so.) ed davis 43 
(Sr.) Darqueze Dennard

CB 
(so.) Arjen colquhoun 36 

(5th) Kevin Muma 

(5th) Kevin Muma 
PK


KO
 (Fr.) michael Geiger 4 (r-Fr.) Kevin cronin 24 
(Jr.) Mike Sadler 

(Jr.) Nick Hill 
P


KR
 (sr.) Kevin muma 17 (5th) Kyler elsworth 41 
(Jr.) Nick Hill 

(So.) Taybor Pepper 
PR


 (sr.) Andre sims, Jr. 21 (Jr.) Leland ewing 56 
LS 
SPARTANS PASSING 
michigan state sophomore connor cook has thrown for 276 yards this year, 202 of which came last week against Youngstown state. he also threw four touchdowns against the Penguins in a blowout victory. As a whole, the spartans have accumulated only 480 yards passing through the air in three games, when three different players have seen time under center.  senior Andrew maxwell is 15-for-30 for 114 yards in two appearances and one start, while redshirt freshman Tyler o’connor has entered two games, as well. 
The Irish have looked anything but im­penetrable on the backline thus far, but michigan state hasn’t proven it is anything to fear through the air, either. spartans sophomore Aaron burbridge earned recog­nition on the biletnikoff Award Preseason Watch List and has 80 yards on eight catches this season. sophomore macgarrett Kings, Jr., leads michigan state with 99 yards and one touchdown on eight grabs in 2013. 
notre dame has the edge in talent, and if the Irish secondary can tighten things up, it could be very difficult for michigan state. Irish senior tri-captain cornerback bennett Jackson’s pick-six in the Purdue game could serve as a wake-up-call for the rest of his unit. While far from a sure thing, the talent and experience on the Irish back end give notre dame a ceiling well above anything michigan state could reasonably expect to reach in week four. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 


SPARTANS RUSHING
  Junior running backs Jeremy Langford and nick hill lead the more accomplished dimension of michigan state’s offense. The spartans have rushed for 209.7 yards-per­game this year. on 44 attempts, the 6-foot­2, 206-pound Langford has 200 yards on the season and has scored four touchdowns, while the smaller hill has added 179 yards and one score on 7.2 yards-per-attempt. redshirt freshman running back riley bullough adds a power dimension to the spartan running game. The 230-pounder has 82 yards on 21 carries in 2013.
  Although notre dame’s defense has struggled mightily in comparison with last year’s unit, the Irish still rank 26th in the nation in rush defense. notre dame has 


Mike Monaco 
sports editor 
notre dame-michigan state is always a battle. A game-winning score late in the fourth quarter or in overtime has decided eight of the last 13 meetings. saturday will be no dif­ferent. brian Kelly said the winner will be whichever team is still standing when time expires. 
michigan state has a statistically dominant defense, but they’ve played a cupcake, a directional school and south Florida. still, sparty figures to match up fairly well with the Irish offense, which struggled mightily to run the ball against Purdue, averaging 2.5 yards per carry. 
I give the slight edge in this contest to the notre dame de­fense, which — rough as it has looked in the first three games 
— goes up against a quarterback in connor cook playing in just his second game as the definitive starter. The Irish final­ly show up defensively and down the spartans. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 24, michigan state 17 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2013 | The observer 






O HEAD 

ON NBC 
NO. 22 NOTRE DAME 

Observer File Photo KEVIN SONG | The Observer 
IRISH PASSING boilermakers repeatedly erupted through It certainly hasn’t looked perfect at times, notre dame’s offensive line and recorded six KeiVarae Russell (So.) 
but notre dame has put together an im-tackles-for-loss. That the Irish failed to eclipse 

CB 23 Lo Wood (sr.) 
pressive passing offense so far this season. 100 yards on the ground against the same Tommy rees has recorded three consecutive Purdue team that allowed 221 yards rush­300-yard games after reaching the mark only ing to cincinnati in the opening week should 

Jaylon Smith (Fr.) 
OLB 
twice in his career before 2013. senior tri-cap-be cause for concern for notre dame, even 
30 ben councell (Jr.) 
Austin Collinsworth (Sr.) 


22 elijah shumate (so.) tain TJ Jones and junior davaris daniels have if the pieces are there. michigan state senior 
S
Sheldon Day (So.) 

both shown themselves capable of serving as linebackers denicos Allen and max bullough 
DE 
90 Isaac rochell (Fr.) 
Dan Fox (Gr.) the main targets this year, while freshman — both of whom have generated buzz as 

ILB 
59 Jarrett Grace (Jr.) 
Louis Nix (Sr.) receiver corey robinson and junior tight highly-regarded nFL prospects — will make 
NG 
Kona schwenke (sr.) 

Carlo Calabrese (Gr.) end Troy niklas bring much-needed size and it tough sledding for the Irish backs 


96 ILB 
Kendall moore (sr.) 
Stephon Tuitt (Jr.) 8 power to the unit. EDGE: MICHIGAN STATE 
DE 94 Jarron Jones (so.) 
Matthias Farley (Jr.) meanwhile, michigan state leads the na­
4 eliar hardy (Jr.) 
S 
tion in both total defense and pass efficien-IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 
Prince Shembo (Sr.) 
OLB 
11 Ishaq Williams (Jr.) cy defense, allowing 177.0 yards-per-game brian Kelly and chuck martin have their and attaining a 68.14 rating, respectively. work cut out for them this week against a de-The spartans also rank fifth in the nation in fense that has done about as well as it possibly 
CB 
36 Bennett Jackson (Sr.) pass defense, having surrendered only 126.7 could have through three games, regardless 
cole Luke (Fr.) 
yards-per-game. They have also shown big-of the opponents. michigan state defensive play ability, totaling 83 return yards following coordinator Pat narduzzi will serve as the four interceptions — two of which went the assistant coach for the first time this year. other way for touchdowns. spartans sopho-narduzzi has seven years of experience at the 
TJ Jones (Sr.) 

88 
more defensive end shilique carter has one of helm of the spartans defense, a unit that has 
WR 
corey robinson (Fr.) 
those touchdown returns following an inter-been the top defense in the big Ten in each of 
DaVaris Daniels (Jr.) 

87 daniel smith (sr.) ception, and has added two more defensive the past two seasons. touchdowns following fumble recoveries. EDGE: MICHIGAN STATE carter also anchors the michigan state front, 
RT 

Ronnie Stanley (So.) having recorded two sacks and eight quar-IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS 
WR 
79 steve elmer (Fr.) 
terback hurries this year. even if notre dame TJ Jones will look for an opportunity to re-
George Atkinson (Jr.) 
Christian Lombard (Sr.) 

65 
3 Amir carlisle (Jr.) can keep rees off his back, he will have to be turn a punt after calling for a fair catch at his 
RBRG 
conor hanratty (Jr.) 
careful to keep the ball out of the ready hands own four-yard line against Purdue. Atkinson 
Tommy Rees (Sr.) 
Nick Martin (Jr.) 
C 
77 matt hegarty(Jr.) QB 
12 Andrew hendrix (sr.) of spartan defenders and count on daniels has perhaps been the most steady special and Jones to make plays down the field. teams performer for the Irish, averaging 
Chris Watt (Gr.) 
75 mark harrell (so.) 
LG 
EDGE: EVEN 29.4 yards on eight kickoff returns this year. 
LT 

Zack Martin (Gr.) Atkinson could find himself with an oppor­
57 hunter bivin (Fr.) 

IRISHRUSHING tunity to recreate the magic he brought to 
TE 
Troy Niklas (Jr.) michigan state ranks fourth in the nation notre dame stadium two years ago, when he 
18 ben Koyack (Jr.) 
in rush defense, allowing only 50.3 yards per returned a kickoff 89 yards for a touchdown game on the ground. notre dame has not against the spartans. 
WR 

Chris Brown (So.) shown itself to be a significant threat running EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
17 James onwualu (Fr.) 
the ball yet this season, even with a backfield that goes five deep in theory. Irish junior run-IRISH SCHEDULE (2-1) ning back cam mcdaniel brought a power di-Aug. 31 Temple W 28-6 mension to the running game against Purdue sept. 7 @ Michigan L 41-30 that had been lacking, but Amir carlisle sept. 14 @ Purdue W 31-24 turned in a dud following what seemed to be sept. 21 Michigan State 

Kyle Brindza (Jr.) 
Kyle Brindza (Jr.) 

27 nick Tausch (Gr.) his breakout game against michigan. Junior sept. 26 Oklahoma George Atkinson, still atop the Irish depth oct. 5 vs. Arizona State 
KO 
PK 
George Atkinson (Jr.) 
Kyle Brindza (Jr.) 
33 cam mcdaniel (Jr.) 98 Alex Wulfeck (Gr.) 
KR 
P 
chart at the running back position, has strug-oct. 19 USC 
PR 
LS 

TJ Jones (Sr.) gled to find a groove so far this year. he has oct. 26 @ Air Force 
Scott Daly (So.) 

3 Amir carlisle (Jr.) 
averaged 5.4 yards-per-carry, but has only nov. 2 Navy 
carried the ball 18 times. nov. 9 @ Pittsburgh Against Purdue, the Irish backs often nov. 23 BYU 
Notre Dame vs. Temple 
failed to regain the line of scrimmage, as the nov. 30 @ Stanford 


Joseph Monardo 
Associate sports editor 
michigan state will walk into notre dame stadium with one of the nation’s top defenses by most mea­sures. how much of that is a credit to the spartans’ actual defensive abilities, and how much of it is a product of beating up on the likes of the Youngstown state Penguins, well, that remains to be seen. 
notre dame will likely eclipse the 177.0 yards michigan state’s opponents have managed, on aver­age, this year, but the Irish will find the going tough against what will prove to be an impressive (al­though not historic) defense. What the Irish can do on defense, meanwhile, is perhaps more important. michigan state trots out an inexperienced quarter­back to lead an offense that hasn’t accomplished much so far. special teams wins the day for the Irish. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 23, michigan state 20 


Jack Hefferon 
sports Writer 
Last week, I picked the Irish by 45 points. oops. 
It seems I’ve fallen into the same trap as most of cam­pus: thinking that returning most of last year’s team means this year will be the same. so now, all I’m look­ing to see is baby steps in improvement from this year’s squad. 
can one (or more) of notre dame’s running backs gain consistent yards in the face of one of the nation’s best defenses? And after senior captain bennett Jackson bailed them out with a pick-six last week, can the sec­ondary start to hold down the back end of the defense? 
If the Irish improve in either of those areas, they should move to 3-1. otherwise the spartans, who have been un-pantsed by the Irish in the two games since Little Giants, will take it to the Irish on saturday. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 27, michigan state 24 
PAId AdverTIsemenT The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 






Irish secondary aims to rebound vs. MSU 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Assistant managing editor 
Last year, notre dame relied on three first-time starters in the sec­ondary to anchor a defense that al­lowed less than 13 points per game. 
This year, the no. 22 Irish re­turned all of those first-time starters in the secondary. The back end of the defense was supposed to be the rock of the unit that allowed defen­sive coordinator bob diaco to throw exotic blitzes at offenses. 
but three games into the sea­son, the notre dame secondary has allowed quarterbacks connor reilly (Temple), devin Gardner (michigan) and rob henry (Purdue) to average 260 yards per game in the air. 
“I think the first three games, we haven’t executed to the best of our ability,” sophomore cornerback Keivarae russell said. “That’s the biggest thing this week, is to focus on executing. When a play comes your way, just make a play.” 
This season, the Irish (2-1) have allowed seven passing touchdowns after surrendering just 11 scores in all of 2012. 
All three Purdue touchdowns against the Irish were catch-and­runs, with notre dame missing tack­les and allowing the boilermakers to hit pay dirt. 
“We’ll be in great position and something just wouldn’t happen,” russell said. “At the end of the day, it’s a 50-50 chance. You either do or you don’t. Lately, we haven’t been mak­ing plays we should be making.” 
The Irish also allowed michigan receiver Jeremy Gallon to spin away from would-be tacklers and sprint in for a 61-yard touchdown. 
“You’re going to have plays where you blow a coverage or miss a tackle or something like that,” russell said. “That’s what’s going to happen, it’s football. secondary is probably the hardest position to play, other than quarterback, on the field … You just have to learn to get better from your mistakes.” 
diaco and Irish coach brian Kelly have been dialing up more and more blitzes this season, but in do­ing so have put the secondary in a perilous situation. 
“obviously if you bring more pres­sure, you’re giving up some zones,” Kelly said. “so you either have to play some three under, three deep, which vacates some zones and you’d better get there or you have to play sim­ply some more man coverage; and within that man coverage there’s a lot more technique that goes in, because it’s not simply you line up wide. It’s bunched formations; it’s picks; it’s fighting through all those complexities of playing man-to­man coverage. 
“I guess what I was saying is that I still think we are not where we want to be defensively in terms of what that structure is going to be yet.” 

Last week, for the second straight game, notre dame cashed in on an interception to score a touchdown. After junior defensive end stephon Tuitt scored against michigan, se­nior bennett Jackson took one to the house against the boilermakers. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
Jackson said he hasn’t used the pick-six to give himself a confidence boost. 
“It didn’t really play too much of an effect on me,” Jackson said. “I was just happy I could contribute to the team and put points up on the board. It definitely made me feel better about myself that I was able to go out there and perform and do something for the team.” 
michigan state (3-0) comes into notre dame stadium with sopho­more quarterback connor cook at the helm. on the year, he’s passed for 276 yards and four touchdowns while only attempting 49 passes. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2013 | The observer 



Physical rivalry to be won by ‘last man standing’ 
with the history between the And while the Irish are aware 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports Writer teams. of the spartans’ ability on that 
“dantonio’s teams … are physi-side of the ball, Irish senior quar-
After a miniature two-game cal and certainly well-prepared terback Tommy rees said notre road trip, the no. 22 Irish will re-in all phases of the game,” Kelly dame is ensuring it stays more fo­turn to notre dame stadium this said. “It’s the michigan state cused on its gameplan than on its weekend to face an elite defense, a teams that we’ve come to know opponent’s gaudy statistics. quarterback coming into his own and respect, and again, it’s go-“obviously you’re cognizant of and one of their peskiest rivals ing to be one of those typical big the success they’ve had, but for when they host michigan state on Ten games where [the] last man us it’s all about what we’re doing saturday. standing through four quarters on offense,” he said Wednesday. 
The spartans (3-0) will be the comes out victorious.” “It’s about our execution, and our third consecutive big Ten oppo-This michigan state squad is es-understanding of our gameplan. nent notre dame (2-1) has faced, pecially daunting, as it enters this We can’t focus too much on what with the Irish splitting contests week boasting the nation’s best they’re ranked, we’ve just got to at michigan and Purdue over the defense. Through three games, get their schemes down and un­past two weeks. that unit has given up 12 points derstand what they’re trying to 
michigan state and notre per game and limited opponents do.” dame have played historically to 177 yards per game — the best While michigan state brings tight games over the last 15 or mark of any team in the country. depth and experience on defense, so years, and Irish coach brian Though those records come a relatively new face runs the of­Kelly’s introduction to the rivalry from games against Western fense. The spartans were unable three years ago was certainly one michigan, south Florida, and to settle on a quarterback through of them. down three points in Youngstown state, Kelly sees their first two games but had a overtime, spartans coach mark a formidable challenge in the leader surface when sophomore be ready for [cook],” senior safety “I think it’s one of those games dantonio lined his players up for spartan defense. connor cook emerged with a Austin collinsworth said. “but you take stock of,” dantonio said. a game-tying field goal, only to “number of returning play-four-touchdown game last week. it definitely changes the game. “It is a game for a guy who grew up fake it and claim a 34-31 victory. ers on defense … outstanding cook saw limited time off the You’ve got to stay on your guy in in the midwest. notre dame. You 
The Irish took back the defensive schemes. They make it bench last season but is still large-scrambling situations, because grew up with a lot of traditions megaphone Trophy the next year very difficult to run the football,” ly an unknown entity. one thing if you relax for a second, it’s a big that were involved before you got with a dominant 31-13 win and Kelly said. “You have to find ways the Irish do know is that cook is play waiting to happen.” here. so just very humbled to be held on to it last season by going to manufacture runs. You’ve got averaging nearly five yards per The spartans have impressed part of the process and part of the into spartan stadium and shut-to be able to protect your quar-carry this year and should be an-in three wins so far, but saturday’s tradition. ting down the home team in a terback. Again, you’ve got to play other dual-threat presence they’ll trip to notre dame will be “I want our guys to have fun 20-3 slugfest. tough, physical football for four need to contain. their first big test of the season. down there. I want us to compete.” 
Kelly said he and his players quarters. You’ve got to take care of “We’ve faced a lot of mobil-dantonio — an ohio native — ap­know to expect a battle from the the football. All of the little things ity back there so that’s something preciates the regional rivalry ev-Contact Jack Hefferon at spartans this weekend, especially matter in matchups like this.” we’ll be prepared for. I think we’ll ery time these teams square off. wheffero@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT PAId AdverTIsemenT 





