The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 8 | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
GRC expands programs 
By TORI ROECK 
associate news editor 

To augment the work of stu­dent government’s gender issues committee and the new prism nd, the gender relations center (grc) is initiating new programming this year to drum up conversation about sexual­ity, identity and relationships at notre dame. 
dr. christine caron-gebhardt, director of the grc, said expand­ed offerings include roundtable discussions, presentations from experts and dorm workshops. 
The first notable event is a three-part series of speeches from Terry nelson Johnson, a professional speaker and men­tor at old st. patrick’s church in chicago, on sexuality and catholicism, men and masculin­ity and lgbTQ and catholicism and it will take place sept. 16 and 17. 
“we’re continuing our conver­sations on sexuality and relation­ships, but really broadening the conversation to include things around men and masculin­ity, lgbTQ, understanding of gender and identities [and] the intersectionality of identities,” caron-gebhardt said. 
amanda downey, assistant di­rector for educational initiatives at the grc, said Johnson first spoke at notre dame last year, at the request of a group of stu­dents from keough hall. 
“Terry nelson Johnson came to us as a result of a student inter­est. a group of men from keough came over one day and said they wanted to talk about intimacy,” downey said. “They wanted to bring him, and they wanted him to talk about intimacy.” 
To better connect with the needs of the student body, caron-gebhardt said the grc is starting a dorm commissioner program. 
“we are piloting dorm com­missioners as a resource for students within their residence halls as well as a conduit for 
see grc PAGE 4 

ACC student body presidents convene 
Coccia represents ND at student government gathering 



By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 

notre dame student body president alex coccia joined other student government leaders from atlantic coast conference (acc) universities last weekend for a first-annual gathering he described as “enormously beneficial.” 
The student body presi­dents’ conference coincided with the first acc game of the year on labor day, coccia said, a matchup between 
pittsburgh and Florida  state  
at pittsburgh.  
“[The  university  of]  

pittsburgh had invited the acc student body presidents onto the field for that first home game, so we decided we should make a conference out of this opportunity,” he said. 

coccia said one of the high­lights was a meeting with acc commissioner John swofford, who discussed his 16 years of experience leading the acc. 
“swofford really aimed to 
see acc PAGE 4 

MSA degree ranked No. 4 


By NICOLE McALEE 
news writer 

notre dame’s master of science in accountancy (msa) program was recently ranked no. 4 in The public accounting report’s an­nual rankings of msa programs, a two-spot jump from last year’s no. 6 position. additionally, the public accounting report ranked the program no. 1 in the country of those programs with a faculty of its size. 
h. Fred mittelstaedt, deloitte Foundation professor of accoun­tancy and the chairperson of the department of accountancy, said he is pleased with the rankings. 
“i’m very grateful for the rank­ings,” mittelstaedt said. “i think they reflect the quality of our program, because i would say we are the best accounting program in the country — undergrad and graduate. so it’s nice when rank­ings come out that reflect that.” 

mittelstaedt said The public accounting report’s rankings are based on a survey of account­ing professors across the country, 
see accounTing PAGE 4 


Biologist studies jet lag 
By HENRY GENS 
news writer 
a study by a notre dame biolo­gist suggests jet lag may be perma­nently grounded in the future. as part of a collaborative effort with scientists from the university of oxford, associate professor of biological sciences giles duffield helped identify a promising target in the circadian cycle for the de­velopment of novel therapeutics to combat the common effects of jet lag. The study was published in cell Journal on aug. 29. 
The target molecule, sik1, is a protein kinase that was singled out for further study after exhaustive screens, duffield said. 
“The original screen looked for roughly 100 genes that were switched on by light in the part of the brain that is the ‘master clock’ 
— the hypothalamus,” duffield said. “we saw that this kinase, sik1, was an interesting molecule. The fact that it is a kinase and that it interacts with components that we have already established in the clock is why it became a primary target in the subsequent analysis.” 
duffield said the way the sik1 protein kinase modulates the in­ternal clock is different from pre­viously researched kinases in the pathway. 
“There are other kinases that regulate the clock, but they tend to regulate the speed of the clock, making it longer or shorter,” he said. “This is actually working with the light system, and targeting sik1 essentially ‘shifts’ the clock.” 
This particular property could be the key to producing a drug to ameliorate the negative effects of interrupted circadian rhythms, known together colloquially as jet lag, duffield said. 
“i think that if a pharmaceuti­cal therapeutic agent could be developed that would target sik1 —either deactivate it so it doesn’t phosphorylate its target or stop it being induced at some point in the pathway — it could be relatively specific so it doesn’t have a side effect,” he said. “i think it’s very 
see JeT lag PAGE 5 

news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 waking The echoes PAGE 16 women’s soccer PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                       peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Which city would you want to live in after graduation? 

Dan Smith 
senior 
dillon hall 
“Juneau, alaska.” 

Keith Feldman 
grad student 
off-campus 
“i forfeited that right when i came back to south bend.” 

Marquis Dickson 
Freshman 
Zahm hall 
“san Francisco.” 


Dre Smith 
Junior 
duncan hall 
“miami, Florida.” 


Lindsey Smith 
senior 

welsh Family hall 
“somewhere in north Texas.” 

Peter Chung 
Junior 
o’neill 

“not south bend`.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Tori roeck Jack hefferon 


Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
lesley stevenson mary green 
henry gens meri kelly 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
sammy coughlin kevin noonan 


Photo Viewpoint 

karla moreno caroline lang Momix “Can ND Women SatAWAY Class Men’s Soccer “Chinese Architecture emily kruse 
DeBartolo Performing Have It All?” Snite Museum Alumni Stadium and the beaux arts” Arts Center South Dining Hall Sculpture Garden 12:00 p.m.-2:00 p.m. 104 Bond Hall 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 9:30 a.m.-10:30 a.m. Game against North 4:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 

Corrections 

Dance performance of Panel discusses balancing Free outdoor yoga. Carolina. Lecture by Dr. Nancy S. 
The observer regards itself as “The Four Seasons.” careers and family. Steinhardt a professional publication and 
“The Notion of 
strives for the highest standards 


Iron Sharpens Iron Women’s Volleyball National Theatre Mass in Spanish Competing” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Coleman-Morse Center Purcell Pavilion Live: The Audience Dillon Hall 141 Debartolo Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
10 p.m.-11 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Interdenominational Match against Bowling Arts Center Mass celebrated by Fr. Berges Lecture in 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Christian worship Green. 3 p.m.-5:25 p.m. Joe Corpora. business ethics 
we can correct our error. 

service. Live re-broadcast. 


ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2013 | The observer 



College lecture series focuses on justice 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
The saint mary’s center for spirituality (cFs) will kick off its 2013 fall lecture series titled “Justice and its many Facets,” sponsored by the saint mary’s college annual endowed lecture series Fund, on sept. 12. 
michelle egan, associate direc­tor for the center for spirituality, said because the college is focus­ing on its core value of justice this year, the decision to highlight this topic in the fall lecture series was easy. 
“Justice is an important and timely theme to build three thought-provoking lectures around, and broad enough to ex­plore some of the various facets of justice,” egan said. 
The first of these speakers will be Fr. daniel groody, associate professor of theology at notre dame, who will discuss immi­gration sept 12. 
“in an era in which war, eco­nomic impoverishment and eco­logical degradation lead millions of people around the globe to mi­grate from their homeland, and at a time when the u.s. congress is debating immigration reform legislation, Fr. groody’s lecture will help the campus community to reflect on these realities from a catholic perspective,” egan said. 
emily reimer-barry, assistant professor of theology and reli­gious studies at the university of san diego will present a lec­ture sept. 26 titled “saying yes to more than the dress? elements of a pro-woman Theology of marriage.” 
“at a time when women feel social pressure to have weddings in a style that costs an average of $25,000,” egan said, “professor reimer-barry’s lecture will dis­cuss a theology of marriage that ‘says yes to more Than the dress.’” 


“Justice is an important and timely theme to build three thought-provoking lectures around.” 
Michelle Egan 
associate director 
Center for Spirituality 
The final lecture of the se­ries will take place oct 10. mary doak, associate professor of the­ology and religious studies at 

paid adverTisemenT 


paid adverTisemenT 


activities night highlights saint mary’s clubs 
By KELLY KONYA 
news writer 
saint mary’s annual student activities night took place wednesday on the college’s library green.  hundreds of students attended the event and walked around with little blue bags to store all of their the university of san diego will present her lecture, “consuming women: sex slavery and the body of christ in a market dominated world.” 
“professor doak’s lecture will invite us to explore the meaning of our commitment to justice in a world in which millions of wom­en and children are trafficked both within and across national boundaries for the sex industry or coerced labor,” egan said. 
religious studies professor margaret gower said she ad­vises all of her students to attend these lectures and believes the topics covered are very pressing and applicable to the core value of justice this year. gower espe­cially expects the students in her catholic social Thought class to attend the lectures. 
“altogether, i hope that the talks will help us, to think about when our relationships, institu­tions and social, political and economic orders are just and un­just,” gower said. “From there, we can talk together about what we can do to work for greater jus­tice and more humane order.” 
The tradition of the cFs lec­tures is important to the saint mary’s community in further educating the minds of the stu­dents, egan said. 
“The center for spirituality has brought prominent scholars to campus since its inception in 1985,” she said. “They share their wisdom on contemporary reli­gious issues and address broader issues of how faith and reason interact.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
free pens, stickers, pamphlets and goodies from the various clubs. 
of the 80 clubs and organi­zations on campus, 65 regis­tered for activities night, vice president of Finance emily murphy said.  an additional 16 local non-profit service organi­zations attended to show stu­dents other ways to get involved in the south bend community. 
“multiple clubs from notre dame were also involved in the event, such as the notre dame swing club and the notre dame women’s ultimate Frisbee team,” murphy said. “The point of the night was to give the clubs on campus a chance to showcase all that they have to offer our students.” 
For many clubs, the night was a great success. Junior grace harvey, who founded the smc yoga club last year, said she had over 150 sign-ups and even ran out of paper at her table. 
“i couldn’t believe the enthu­siasm for the yoga club,” harvey said. “it makes me excited that so many girls want to be a part of something that builds com­munity.  i am looking forward to the continual growth of the club, especially now that my younger sister, chris harvey, is a freshman here and will also be teaching classes.” 
besides numerous athletic clubs ranging from boxing club to horseback riding club, many different art clubs show­cased student abilities. 
Junior chelsea scarnegie said her favorite parts of activities night were learning about the new poetry club and sign­ing up for information on the saint mary’s literary and art publication, the chimes. 
“i learned that the chimes has been the college’s cre­ative publication since 1892,” scarnegie said.  “i am hoping to get published this year, but it will also be fun to join their editorial board and help choose the pieces that will be printed.” 
diane Fox, from the office for student success, said she thinks getting involved on campus enhances a student’s overall education. 

“Maintaining a 
balanced life in 
college allows 
students to 
feel themselves 
mentally, 
spiritually and 
physically.” 
Diane Fox 
Office for Student Success 
“campus activities and clubs help students learn to prioritize academics with life and manage time,” Fox said.  “maintaining a balanced life in college allows students to feel themselves mentally, spiritually and physi­cally. This enhances the per­son’s personal evolution as well as helps to prevent burnout.” 
Junior nicole o’Toole, presi­dent of the republicans club, said the night was a true suc­cess because it brought the en­tire community together in a fun way. 
“it was cool to just sit back and watch all of the retuning club members of each organiza­tion inspiring new members to join,” o’Toole said.  “everyone here has a passion for some­thing, and i love watching stu­dents find new connections that will make college more en­joyable and memorable.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

in another effort to raise of maryland and georgia Tech all kinds of campus life discus-
GRC ACC 
awareness of sexual violence were not present. sion,” coccia said. 
conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 
in the spring, downey said the 

coccia said he came away The group spent part of the students to let us know what grc will sponsor an exhibition 
make the acc a premiere with ideas for notre dame based time planning how to move the kinds of conversations, what of “unheard voices,” a show by 
conference in athletics, aca-on productive conversations event forward and expand it, he kinds of questions they want to artist Jason dilley that tells the 
demics and the integrity that with the other presidents about said. talk about here on campus about stories of individual survivors of 
comes with both,” coccia campus life issues they each “we drafted the components gender, sexuality and relation-sexual assault. 
said. “if you look at the con-share. of a founding document about ships,” she said. “[dilley] has bronzed face 
ference’s history, that has when this conference will be For those who want to con-casts – imagine a plaster cast of 
really come true. he wel­held in the future,” coccia said. 
“If we can 

tinue these conversations, a face and then it’s dipped into 
comed the new members, 

“our goal is twice a year, first caron-gebhardt said the grc a bronze and on a black back­
[pittsburgh], syracuse and 

build personal at the first acc football game is sponsoring the sr. Jean round ground,” she said. “students can 
notre dame and really talked 

relationships which will always be labor Table, where students can dis-walk around and there are little 
about how much we fit there. 
day. at that gathering, the goal 
with other 

cuss gender issues together. headphones attached to each 
“i think it’s really true, es-
would be to discuss campus and 
student 

each meeting will have a differ-face, and you can actually hear 
pecially when you look at ac-

national issues and share best ent theme ranging from “sports this person tell their story, which 
ademic records from the acc 

governments, we practices in terms of what dif­and gender,” to “gender and is a really powerful program.” 
schools.” 

can better gauge ferent colleges are doing that’s catholicism,” with the first tak-caron-gebhardt said the 
swofford used a metaphor 
working. 
ourselves and 

ing placed oct. 2. grc also plans to supplement 
centered on a house with a 
“The second meeting of the 
our progress.” 

The grc will also spon-prism nd’s lgbTQ-focused pro-
front porch to describe the 

year would be during the acc sor “man Talk” and “women’s grams, including special events 
proper relationship between 

Alex Coccia basketball tournament, and the wisdom” sessions, caron-for national coming out day 
athletics and academics in a 

student body president goal with that one would be to gebhardt said. in october and Transgender 
university setting, he said. 

develop a national legislative “Those conversation talks awareness month and stand 
“he said athletics are a “This conference went right agenda in preparation for april are student-generated,” she against hate in november. 
front porch; they can re-along with what we’ve been do-where there already exists an said. “we provide the venue, we “we see collaborating on 
ally make a house beautiful ing with student government acc lobbying day.” provide the structure, but stu-events and co-sponsoring 
and they’re the first thing here and our goal of connect-although the labor day con-dents provide the things that events together [with prism 
people will see, but they ing student bodies nationwide ference was a pilot run, coccia are important and they want to nd],” caron-gebhardt said. 
don’t change the structural to promote our students’ voices said the presidents left with a discuss.” “we also see that there are 
integrity,” coccia said. “you nationally,” he said. “if we can strong sense that it should con-To begin the discussion fresh-things that they may offer that 
have to have a house built on build personal relationships tinue in future years for the ben­man year, caron-gebhardt we would then complement and 
academics and leadership to with other student govern-efit of the individual schools and said the grc has amended its offer individually. i see us do-
succeed.” ments, we can better gauge our-the acc as a whole. contemporary Topics curricu-ing things collaboratively and 
The conference connected selves and our progress.” “as a whole, i think the student lum so one day covers healthy individually.” 
representatives from notre key issues on the table were body presidents’ conference is relationships and the other ad-caron-gebhardt said the grc 
dame, clemson university, food services on campus and really going to build a sense of dresses prevention of sexual encourages students to get in-
duke university, Florida medical amnesty for students, unity within the acc,” he said. violence on campus through by-volved with their programing 
state university, university coccia said. although the group-“hopefully, with the support of stander intervention. and express what they want the 
of miami, university of north ing was based on athletic con-the acc and the excitement and “we took up that charge from grc function. 
carolina at chapel hill, north nections between the schools, passion we left with, we can re­[the committee on sexual “[we want to] respond to stu­
carolina state university, the conversation did not center ally create something that is assault prevention] saying, ‘how dent needs as we continue the 
university of pittsburgh, on those issues, he said. lasting and that suits the needs can we understand that sexual dialogue around certain issues,” 
syracuse university, “The common athletic con-of the current student body violence on our campus is not she said. 
university of virginia and ference presented the opportu-presidents in that time.” just about two people involved 
virginia Tech. presidents nity for us to meet, but what we but actually impacts our com-Contact Tori Roeck at 
from boston college, wake felt at this weekend conference Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski munity?’” caron-gebhardt said. vroeck@nd.edu 
Forest university, university was that it really encompassed at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
to make the jump, but it’s just a 

Accounting 
concerted effort to have as good 
conTinued From page 1 

students as we can and then place who are asked to rank undergradu-them as well.” ate programs, graduate programs morris said the quality of msa and public accounting firms. faculty and students reflects in the 
professor michael morris, chair-program’s high rankings year after person of the mendoza college of year. business’ msa program, said being “The program has been con-ranked at the top of the list is a wel-sistent in delivering a quality come distinction. education by an experienced and 
renowned business faculty,” morris 
said, “[The] m.s. in accountancy 
“To be at or near the 
staff have gone the extra mile to 

top of the rankings provide the highest level of stu­
from such a dent services, and the level of sup­
port from various segments in the 
broad-based and 
university has enabled the pro-
knowledgeable 
gram to offer a flexible curriculum 

group is really an and achieve 100 percent placement 
honor.” the last two years.” 
mittelstaedt said the rankings 
H. Fred Mittelstaedt 
recognize programs that best pre­
chairperson 
pare students for success in public 
Department of Accountancy 
accounting. 
notre dame’s msa students 

“The public accounting report… certainly qualify for successful ac-rankings are based on the percep-counting careers. mittelstaedt said tions of accounting faculty nation-the msa program boasts a certified wide, so to be at or near the top of public accountant exam pass rate the rankings from such a broad-of over 80 percent, and 84 percent based and knowledgeable group is of 2013 msa graduates were placed really an honor,” morris said. with one of the “big Four” account­
mittelstaedt said since the ing firms. rankings are so objective that it “we probably place more peo­is difficult to attribute the jump ple with the ‘big Four’ account-to a qualitative difference in the ing firms, as a percentage, than program. any other school in the country,” 
“it’s hard to say why that jump mittelstaedt said. [from six to four] would have been there,” mittelstaedt said. “i’m not Contact Nicole McAlee at sure we did anything in one year nmcalee@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2013 | The observer 


Undocumented lawyer gains law license 
Associated Press 
san Francisco — a ma­jority of california supreme court justices appeared re­luctant wednesday to grant a law license to sergio garcia, who graduated law school and passed the state’s bar exam but has been living il­legally in the united states for 20 years. 
a federal law passed by congress in 1996 bars im­migrants in the country illegally from receiving “professional licenses” from government agencies or with the use of public funds unless state lawmakers spe­cifically vote otherwise. 
“congress wanted politi­cal accountability,” Justice ming chin said in expressing doubt the court could grant garcia his license without a specific law enacted by the state legislature. 
Justice goodwin liu said it was “commonsensical” that congress meant to in­clude lawyer licenses in the law. 
The five other justices on the court made similar com­ments, essentially arguing that the law bars them from making garcia a lawyer un­less the state legislature acts. 
The court has 90-days to rule in a case that has garnered national atten­tion, putting the obama administration against state officials who support­ed garcia’s application. 
outside of court, garcia expressed optimism that the supreme court would rule in his favor despite the tough questions asked of the lawyers who spoke on his side during an hour of oral arguments. 
if he does lose, garcia vowed to continue fighting to become a california law­yer either through the state legislature or in the federal courts. 
“This is about trying to live the american dream and showing other immigrants that hard work and dedica­tion does mean something in this country,” he said. 
The state supreme court is in charge of licensing lawyers in california and the arguments boiled down to whether public money would be used in its licens­ing of garcia. lawyers for garcia and the california state bar also argued that congress meant to exempt attorney licenses from the law because they are issued by courts and not agencies. 
a u.s. department of Justice lawyer argued that garcia is barred from re­ceiving his law license be­cause the court’s entire budget comes from the pub­lic treasury. 
“a law license is a professional license,” assistant u.s. attorney daniel Tenney said. “congress meant to prohibit all professional licenses.” 
garcia arrived in the u.s. illegally 20 years ago to pick almonds in the field with his father. 
working the fields and at a grocery store, he attended community college, study­ing to become a paralegal, and then law school. garcia passed the california bar on the first try, a boast that brown, former gov. peter wilson and nearly 50 per­cent of all first-time test takers can’t make. 
The dispute is the latest high-profile immigration clash between state and fed­eral laws. usually, it’s the obama administration op­posing state laws in arizona and elsewhere thought to be anti-immigrant. 
The obama position sur­prised some, since it had recently adopted a program that shields people who were brought to the u.s. as children, graduated high school and have kept a clean criminal record from depor­tation and allows them to legally work in the country. 
at 36, garcia is too old to qualify for the obama pro­gram. but he and the immi­gration groups supporting him argue that garcia is ex­actly the type of candidate the obama administration had in mind when it adopted its program. 
The administration’s op­position stunned garcia, who self-financed his ed­ucation at cal northern school of law in chico while working at a grocery store and publishing a self-help book in 2006. 
“i was very upset by,” he said. “i worked hard and have never been a burden to the state.” 
but legal scholars and others say garcia faces ob­stacles if he wins his law license. 
garcia will have to work for himself because no law firm or other employers could legally hire him. and he may be automatically disqualified from repre­senting certain clients and taking on some types of cas­es because of his citizenship status. 
“garcia is not qualified to practice law because he continually violates federal law by his presence in the united states,” former state bar prosecutor larry desha said in one of the few “friend of the court” briefs filed op­posing garcia’s licensing. 
a similar case is brew­ing in Florida. That state’s supreme court has so far re­fused to certify a person liv­ing illegally in the u.s. as a lawyer, but has not issued a 
Jet lag 
conTinued From page 1 
tangible, unlike other compounds of the clock which are less likely to be good targets.” 
such a beneficial treatment could have a considerable impact on health, and not just for frequent flyers, he said. 
“it’s not just travelers that suffer from this — anybody doing shift work is potentially undergoing the equivalent of jet lag on a weekly ba­sis,” duffield said. “and that’s the real problem because you’ve got 16 percent of the u.s. and european workforce doing shift work, and these people are essentially suffer­ing from jet lag.” 
chronic health risks abound for the significant portion of the labor force employed in shift work, es­pecially as individuals spend more time employed in these sectors, duffield said. 
“There are several studies indi­cating that the level of diabetes, metabolic syndromes, insulin sensitivity, and obesity levels are higher in people doing shift work 
— removing all other factors, in­cluding socioeconomic ones,” he said. 
duffield said even individuals in areas other than formal shift work may be unwittingly suffering from chronic disruptions to their circa­dian cycle. 
“an example i like to make is that of married people with a fam­ily — they are probably not all on final ruling. 
garcia and his supporters argue that he deserves his law license on legal — and moral — grounds. 
state bar officials and california’s attorney gen­eral argue citizenship sta­tus is not a requirement to receive a california law license. garcia said he de­serves to practice law for those legal reasons, plus the hard work and dedication he put into passing the bar examination. 
garcia first came to the u.s. with his fam­ily from mexico when he was 17 months old. he re­turned to mexico with his mother when he was 9 and came back eight years lat­er and applied for citizen­ship in 1994, sponsored by his father, who is now an american citizenship. 
garcia estimates that it could take another five years for his application to be approved given the back­log of applications. 
he said he doesn’t fear de­portation because of the no­toriety his case has received 
— and the fact that he has notified immigration offi­cials of his prolonged pres­ence in the u.s. 
in the meantime, he has supported himself as a mo­tivational speaker and para­legal when he can find the work. 
the same ‘shift’; they do different ‘shifts’ during the week and then during the weekend they corrupt their artificial ‘timezones’ because they want to spend time with the family,” he said. “by the time monday comes around they’re re­ally out of whack, and they’re suf­fering from jet lag all over again.” 
“It’s not just 
travelers that 
suffer from 
this — anybody 
doing shift work 
is potentially 
undergoing the 
equivalent of jet 
lag on a weekly 
basis.” 
Giles Duffield 
associate professor 
Biological Sciences 
duffield said he thinks his proj­ect can help point the way toward a therapeutic treatment to benefit travelers and shift workers. 
“i actually think that this is far more tangible — and not just be­cause it’s my study — than any­thing we’ve had before, at least in the circadian system,” duffield said. 
Contact Henry Gens at hgens@nd.edu 



off the field kickoff 

Isaac Lorton 
sports writer 

The temperature dropped signifi­cantly last night. 
For all you freshman, it was a little taste of the dreaded south bend cold. For juniors and seniors, it was a not-so­subtle reminder that silly syllabus week is over and we all now must face the im­pending doom of this upcoming semes­ter. it was an eerily cold wind telling us to brace ourselves: life is coming. 
labor day has passed unnoticed. (at least by all notre dame students. what would our lives be without labor?) The carefree joyfulness that is syllabus week is long gone. The days of coming unpre­pared to class and doing something fun every night of the week has left. books have been bought and calendars have been prepared. To the grindstone! 
i even heard people talking about when their finals were. wow, slow down there, Turbo. 
First, we have to go to activities night. 

There were three types of people there last night. 
1) The over-eager, over-achieving freshmen, and by that i mean all freshmen. 
2) The sophomores — who once were over-eager, over-achieving fresh­men — who now go around signing up their friends for the bungee-Jumping origami club, the anti-Feminism Feminists against Females club, the ‘do you even lift, bro?’ club for Those who don’t actually lift, and the ever-famous name That obscure musician, song, bird call, wind chime or noise club. 
3) The juniors and seniors behind the tables who, two years ago, were suck­ered into these clubs because at that particular table, they were handing out all of the good candy. 
second, we need to have our resumes, portfolios and childhoods read over, critiqued and edited by the career center. and what’s with this arts and letters boot camp thing? we don’t need no bootcamp to get into the business world. we are philosopher kings (and by arts and letters, i mean pls)! 
Third, we must then take our refined resumes to the career Fair, where we will wait in ridiculous lines to talk to the “big Four,” while the other busi­nesses are sitting there, waiting for someone to talk to, only to get people walking by and grabbing all of their pens and coozies. The “big Four” sounds like a bad superhero team that couldn’t even make its name an allit­eration. amateurs. For all non-business school people, it is a time to sit back and examine your life choices. 
Then finally, there’s class. and life. good luck! 
Gabriel Griggs 
viewpoint columnist 

it is a funny phenomenon of life that certain paths that seem obvious in hindsight were not so obvious at the time. attending notre dame, for example, is something that seems so clearly to be the right decision now, but that was not entirely obvious when i was a senior in high school. it was important for me to be around my family, so my choices were set: notre dame, purdue, wabash and university of chicago. i’d essentially drawn a three-hour radius around south bend and limited my options from there. 
The first hint came during the middle of senior year when i was waitlisted at chicago, a school i had loved since i was a sophomore. but even after being waitlisted, things were not clear. i still felt drawn to wabash college in crawfordsville, ind., a small, all-male school whose mission was to educate its men in the liberal arts tradition. The mission of the college and a generous financial aid package made wabash one of my top choices. notre dame was always there, though, and my decision was sealed on a fateful day. 
The day began with a funeral for the mother of one of my childhood friends. he had been a good friend through grade school, and though we had gone our separate ways in high school, i have many fond memories of him and his mother.
 The funeral was on the same day as the blue-gold game, and i had recent­ly been awarded a scholarship by the notre dame club of st. Joseph valley. The recipients of this scholarship and their families received field seats for the blue-gold game and were called on to the field at halftime. This was, to say the least, a pretty neat experience. i arrived home after the game and had not even left the car when my sister ran out with a letter from notre dame. it was the financial aid package, and it was a tremendous blessing. i was set on nd and made my decision that day. 
This fateful day was full of emotion­al highs and lows and was a whirlwind of activity. even going into the game, there was doubt. but, sure enough, certainty and clarity came — it just took a little patience. it seems so obvi­ous now that this path would present itself so clearly, but at the time, i was in a great state of anxiety. it is another unusual phenomenon of life that great joy is often accompanied by great sor­row and that great clarity is often ac­companied by great confusion. 
i share this story because of the ob­vious discernment involved in being a senior again. There is a great sense of comfort in seeing god’s presence in the highs and the lows of our lives, and i imagine we can all relate to this experience in some way or another. 
i also share this story in relation to a lesson i’ve learned over the past year: frequent prayer is important. christ is always there, right in front of us, and often moving imperceptibly. sometimes his message culminates in momentous occasions — but more often than not, it culminates in little things. prayer is the key to under­standing the everyday occurrences in our lives, whether they are momen­tous or mundane. 
as blessed John paul ii reminded us in a 1993 homily stressing the impor­tance of priestly devotion to prayer, the “gospel shows Jesus in prayer at every important moment of his mis­sion.” Through prayer, we might learn to be grateful for our many blessings and we might also be reminded of christ’s overwhelming love for us. and going forward, we might learn in what ways we are called to share 
— and multiply — our talents so as to lead holier lives. 
Gabriel is a senior in the program of liberal studies. He can be contacted at ggriggs@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“it is only with one’s heart that one can see clearly. what is essential is invisible to the eye.” 
Antoine de Saint-Exupéry 
French writer 

Contact Isaac at ilorton@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
More than meets the eye 
Nora Goebelbecker 
Just around the bend 

To be completely honest, i was among the worst of them. 
i held my tongue in cabs, but as soon as i was outside their hearing, that filter disap­peared and i would complain about how south bend is such a dump. it’s almost a soli­darity thing: people connect through com­plaining about the city much as they would connect by talking about the weather. i’m from a big city, and while notre dame’s great opportunities pulled me to this part of the united states, i still desperately craved the creative pulse, that almost tangible hum of energy, that a large city provides. 
Things hit a low point one dreary January day my freshman year, when, trudging into o’shaughnessey and rubbing my numb hands together, defrosting for a mo­ment before taking a seat, i spied a copy of newsweek on a magazine rack boasting the headline “america’s dying cities.” mildly interested, i opened the magazine. out of ten cities, south bend was number eight. 
and yes, that’s bad. south bend’s popula­tion has been in slight decline, and 26 per­cent of the remaining population does live at or beneath the federal poverty line, ac­cording to the u.s. census bureau. The first video that shows up if you search “south bend, in” on youTube is a terrible rap about the gangster culture of the city — peppered with shots of notre dame football and drawled over an annoyingly catchy riff from our fight song. 
“There’s a silver lining!” a cold, cynical observer could announce. “we don’t need to travel to all the way to uganda or ecuador to study and fight poverty!” while it really is true that a student body that professes to care about social justice can benefit in a very practical way from our proximity to south bend, there are merits and detriments to both local and global service work, so i won’t push that angle too far. 
i also didn’t write this article to objec­tify south bend bluntly as a bootcamp for people interested in putting social justice work into practice. i wrote it because, when i was a sophomore, south bend mayor pete buttigieg (“buddah-judge”) came to speak at notre dame, and he not only inspired me to study political science and intern for him, but also initiated the start of a 180-degree change in my attitude about south bend. i started going downtown as a junior, first for the internship, but then just for fun. 
The first thing i learned is that there is a free bus that leaves library circle every half hour and shoots you downtown in 15 min­utes. south bend, with a population of about 100,000, is big enough to be the fourth-larg­est city in indiana, but it’s also small enough that other passengers on the bus almost always strike up a conversation with you. my eyes-down, elbows-in cosmopolitan commuter self finds that charming. 
i got off each day at main street and washington, which placed me a few min­utes from the gorgeous st. Joe river, the cozy main street coffee house (which has the best parfaits you will ever try), the convinc­ingly new orleans-themed chicory café and the occasional night of live music at Fiddler’s hearth (21+ to drink but all ages can go). 
after two years of disappointment in the city surrounding notre dame, my perspec­tive began to shift. 
Fact: south bend and notre dame were born within 25 years of each other in the first half of the 1800s, and have existed, side-by-side but in rather separate worlds, ever since. This is changing. notre dame and south bend have increasingly called for mutual engagement. so we have a great center for social concerns. but service is just one kind of engagement. but another thing that south bend might like is not our pity, but rather our affection. 
There are more cool things going on in south bend than you will ever have time to take advantage of, but i challenge you to try. There’s a blog called 365south­bend.blogspot.com with a phenomenal list of things to do in the city, and a more current calendar can be found on downtownsouthbend.com. 
you want to revitalize south bend? hang out downtown! There are actually 32,000 college students who come to south bend every year — imagine how much income that could bring south bend businesses. but this involves a change in conversation. 
rather than forging solidarity by com­plaining about south bend, strengthen friendships by biking down the east race river trail or by attending a concert in the space that used to be the swimming pool of central high. (check out the website of local artist peter hochstedler for a taste of the great music around here.) and here’s a tip: dates at café navarre trump dining hall dates to the nth degree. 
internships are another kind of engage­ment. south bend, as a site of a massive urban renaissance that is re-molding its identity to a center of culture and of tech­nological innovation, is a fascinating city to learn about from any sort of developmental perspective. but right now, from a student’s­eye perspective, when we are encouraged to engage with south bend, it is either through insults or through service. 
students of the university of notre dame, i have two challenges for you. The first is really easy: The next time that you get into a cab, please be mindful of the fact that if you don’t like what you see, it’s the driver’s home you are talking about. The second: stop objectifying that home. Take that cab downtown — or ditch the cab and take the free bus — strictly for fun. go explore what’s just around the river bend. south bend, that is. you may like what you find. 
special thanks to mayor pete, abby davis, Jake grefenstette, kwame nuako, Therese germain, elizabeth anthony, and everyone who has shown me south bend for their ideas, insights and inspiration. 
Nora Goebelbecker is a senior political science major and gender studies minor, also participating in the Hesburgh Program for Public Policy. She can be contacted at ngoebelb@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 

gay rights and the regional divide 
Taonga Leslie 
harvard political review 

when a county in southern georgia held its first-ever integrated prom earlier this year, coverage was both solemn and tongue and cheek. it confirmed our nation­al narrative that the south and southern people are structurally predisposed to re­sist progress. it has become part and parcel of our folk wisdom that change will come slowly to the south if it comes at all. while this perspective has been historically ap­plied to race relations, it also holds true for the current debate on gay rights. 
in light of the supreme court’s cautious ruling on same-sex marriage, it will likely be several years before universal mar­riage equality is a reality in the united states. lambda legal and the human rights campaign, two of the leading lgbT advocacy groups in the united states have adapted to the ruling by pursuing a 50-state strategy that targets the states most likely to flip for gay marriage. right now, that means pushing marriage equal­ity legislation in states like illinois. The progression of support for gay marriage among the states is now fairly predictable. a few months ago, america’s favorite stat­istician, nate silver, released estimates of the year in which public opinion in each state will tip in favor of marriage equality. yet silver’s predictions may be complicated by the potential for large migrations of gay americans in response to state political divisions on marriage. early successes in states that already have high approval for gay marriage may actually result in more entrenched opposition in the south. in order to avoid a repeat of the civil rights movement of the 1960s which similarly exacerbated regional political divides, gay rights activists may do better to take a more holistic, gradualist approach to achieving their goals. 
The state-by-state model of change has often focused on starting movements for change in the north and then hoping these developments will eventually trickle down, but this model is frustrated by the phenom­enon of americans “voting with their feet.” Traditionally, the idea of migrating to one’s ideal social climate has been considered a strength of the american state system. Those favoring more traditional values tend to be concentrated in rural areas and are relatively free from the regulations and liberalism found in the cities and on the coasts. This model is less effective in the distribution of human rights. young lgbT people coming of age in corrosive atmospheres have little recourse to escape anti-lgbT attitudes until their eighteenth birthdays. additionally, as young liberal-minded southerners emigrate from the south, the political balance shifts to the right, further solidifying conservative power. 
as gay americans become aware of the greater opportunities for social equality outside their home region they become increasingly likely to emigrate. This “gay drain” becomes obvious even when ob­serving disparities in lgbT presence among american colleges. students often marvel and joke about the seemingly arti­ficially high presence of lgbT students at ivy league institutions but this presence is a reflection of the desires of many gay students to escape oppressive social envi­ronments in less progressive regions of the country. more generally, young people in­creasingly list lgbT equality as a core mor­al value and seek to congregate in states where that value is respected. a census report on the migration of young college graduates shows that many conservative southern states are experiencing growth in their overall population while witnessing net outmigration of young college gradu­ates. The increasing moral divide of the north and south thus also contributes to intellectual and economic disparities. 
as a matter of strategy, lgbT advocacy groups would do better to make legisla­tion at the national level their first priority. while support for gay marriage hovers slightly above the 50 percent mark, support for ending other forms of discrimination against lgbT americans is much higher. as a result of the extensive focus on the marriage debate, many voters do not real­ize the full extent of the other challenges to equality lgbT americans continue to face. in a 2011 center for american progress poll on workplace discrimination, 73 percent of likely voters supported protecting gays and lesbians against workplace discrimination but 90 percent of voters believed federal laws already provided such protections. (They do not.) until baseline protections against discrimination exist across the states, pushing the most liberal states fur­ther in the direction of marriage equality seems irresponsible. while the state-by­state strategy offers dramatic victories and the potential for quick progress, focus on a broader national campaign will help soothe the regional divide. 
The  Harvard Political Review is the journal of politics and public policy serving Harvard University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



neous institution honoring items of distinguished quality. in fact, the album may be more appro­priately placed on the trophy/ prize shelf of a chuck ‘e cheese or in the bargain bin of a fore­closed radio shack. 
That may be a little too harsh, but “hall of Fame” is, at best, re­markably average. it didn’t ap­proach “Fukushima daiichi” or “miley cyrus at the vmas” levels on the scale of musical events that make you fear for the future of mankind, but i found it to be incredibly disappointing none­theless, especially considering the high expectations i had car­ried in from his classic first al­bum, “Finally Famous.” 
“hall of Fame” is not with­out its bright spots. “beware” is undoubtedly my favorite song from the album, catchily outlin­ing the dangers of dealing with a girl who won’t move on from a relationship (although i doubt the relationship in question was ever disney channel material to begin with). “switch up” is a strong offering featuring some high quality bars from common, and “Fire” will likely get stuck in your head despite the repetitive nature of the hook. 
however, it is the song “milF” that ties together everything big sean has to offer. it isn’t the best song on the album, but it may be the only track to prominently showcase everything that made big sean famous in the first place: word play, a catchy hook, creative sampling and wildly ir­reverent lyrics. with a title like that, i definitely didn’t listen to this track expecting to laugh, but that’s exactly what ended up happening. 
now, it’s time for the low-lights of the album. many of the tracks are either forgettable or just plain bad. big sean’s flow feels disjointed at times, falling off beats characterized by too much repetition or not enough creativ­ity. in “10 2 10,” he even insists on half rapping, half singing/whin­ing off tune while delivering the pleasantly racist line, “i woke up working like a mexican / that mean i work from 10 to 10.” 
he somehow even man­aged to ruin an ellie goulding sample in his song, “you don’t too far away from what made his first album great. he swapped his fast flow and fiendishly clever lyrics for attempts at amateur philosophy, mumbling things like “every minute turns into the longest second, yet never ending” in his song “all Figured out.” 
when not pretending to be a strip club frequenting, snap­back wearing aristotle, big sean spends ample time making refer­ences to detroit, his hometown. i find this not only annoying, but confusing as well. being from detroit isn’t usually something people flaunt. in fact, it’s some­thing people usually hide or ad­mit only under threat of torture, like owning a razor scooter as a college student or being a buffalo bills fan. 
“hall of Fame” has its dia­monds, but so does somalia, and i don’t plan on traveling there anytime soon. ok, that’s too harsh again. “hall of Fame” is simply subpar.  if it’s not a sophomore slump, it’s at least a “sophomore showing up to his first day of classes wearing a jean jacket and cargo shorts,” and there’s a good chance most of its tracks won’t make it past the gatekeeper into my iTunes li­brary. listening to it didn’t make me want to drive away into the night and never come back, but that may be because i don’t have a car and because i’m afraid of the skunk that has been staking out my house. 
here’s my final recommenda­tion: give “hall of Fame” a lis­ten out of courtesy, download the highlights and move on with your life.  big sean can and will rebound. all we can do at this point is wait until he does. 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 
“Hall of Fame” 
Big Sean 
Label: GOOD Music Tracks: “Beware,” “Switch Up” If you like: Kanye West, A$AP 
Rocky we’re somehow contractually obligated to see this. 







If you like: Jennifer Lawrence 
“Gravity” 
Director: Alfonso Cuarón 
Starring: Sandra Bullock, George Clooney 
Why we’re excited: The movie is apparently about two people trapped in space for 90 minutes, which, at the very least, is a change of pace from summer blockbusters. 
If you like: Space 
“The Counselor” 
Director: Ridley Scott 
Starring: Michael Fassbender, Penélope Cruz 
Why we’re excited: Cormac McCarthy, author of “No Country for Old Men” and “The Road,” wrote the script, so odds are it’s going to be a little violent, a little funny and very, very good. 
If you like: “No Country for Old Men” 
“Don Jon” 
Director: Joseph Gordon-Levitt 
Starring: Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Scarlett Johansson 
Why we’re excited: Gordon-Levitt and Johansson both sport some serious Jersey accents in the trailer. 
If you like: “Jersey Shore,” “500 Days of Summer” 
“The Wolf of Wall Street” 
Director: Martin Scorcese 
Starring: Leonardo DiCaprio, Jonah Hill 
Why we’re excited: Nobody can remember the last time Scorcese made a bad movie, and this doesn’t look like the one that’s going to break the streak. 
If you like: “Wall Street,” “The Departed” 
“Machete Kills” 
Director: Richard Rodriguez 
Starring: Danny Trejo 
Why we’re excited: “Machete” was one of the most entertaining action movies in recent memory, and if the trailer is any indication, “Machete Kills” is going to make the original look like “Downton Abbey.” 
If you like: “Machete” 
SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 


The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 


What: Best of LaFortune 
When: 10 p.m. 
Where: LaFortune 
How Much: Free 

come to laFun on Thursday night for an exploration of all the great things the student center has to offer. and if you don’t make it, just come by later to check out Taco bell. 
FRIDAY 


What: Irishenanigans When: 9 p.m. Where: Campus-wide How Much: Free 
The student activities office will be hosting all sorts of food, fun, games and shenanigans all over campus Friday night, so get out there and get wild. 
SATURDAY 

What: Notre Dame vs. Michigan game watch When: 8 p.m. Where: Legends How Much: Free 
if you can’t find a ride and a ticket to ann arbor, mich., on saturday, head to legends to watch notre dame run rampant over michigan, whose mas­cot is essentially a skunkbear. 
SUNDAY 

What: “The Color Purple” When: 3 p.m. Where: The South Bend Civic Theatre How Much: $21 
get off campus for a little culture sunday, for the closing show of “The color purple” at the south bend civic Theatre. The musical, based on a 1982 novel, was nominated for the best musical Tony award in its original broadway run. 


Juan Ramon Cancio Vela 
scene writer 

in early 2013, netflix released “house of cards”, a must watch for political drama enthusiasts. This marked the beginning of a new netflix phenomenon; the inter-net service has expanded its arsenal of weapons, and has decidedly shown that they are not only a material hosting web­site but they can also produce their own great “television” series. 
i consider it television because al­though it doesn’t actually air on televi­sion, calling these “web series” doesn’t do justice to the rich content or acting that goes into this quality product. 
coming on the heels of said recent suc­cess, netflix released “orange is the new black” this summer. if you haven’t seen it yet, this series is definitely worth watch­ing. it has a different comedic grace and human element that “house of cards” was somewhat lacking, but it still man­ages to deliver the same great dramatic energy. 
The series comes from Jenji kohan, who previously created the critically ac­claimed “weeds.” This first season of “orange is the new black” clearly show­cases Jenji’s ability to create complicated anti-hero characters that we can’t help but love. 
The plot follows piper chapman, a woman who recently convicted of aiding and abetting a heroine smuggler involved in a large cartel operation. 
she was your regular everyday 30-something who was about to get mar­ried, settle down, and start a family — that is, until one unfortunate mistake she made in her college years finally catches up with her. 
after a slow starting first episode that documents the days and hours before her going to prison, the show immediately takes off. piper is thrust into a world filled with seemingly simple female-centric drama that quickly veers its ugly head to show a nastier reality. 
she quickly comes to realize the slight differences between prison and the real world; on the inside, insulting the wrong girl could end up in a fist fight, a stabbing attempt or any of a myriad of other more subtle tortures. 
That is, of course, all while trying to avoid inadvertently inviting a corrections officer to feel the need to take advantage of their power over you. The dog-eat­dog world of the federal penitentiary system is a far cry from her once idyllic manhattan life. 
piper is forced to adapt quickly to the ruthless and unapologetic prison scene, for her own wellbeing and that of her friends. 
without ruining any of the finer points of the drama, i will say that piper effec­tively shows us what the waking night­mare of prison life will do to even the most stable and well-adjusted person. 
herein lies the true greatness of this show because it does not only focus solely on the main character and her struggles, it also delves deeper into the past decisions of many of the supporting characters and the reasons behind why they landed themselves a bunk in federal prison. 
This peek into the backstories of the supporting characters allows us to see not only why these women are impris­oned, but also why they react to certain aspects of prison life in very particular and specific ways. 
you grow to know these characters fairly well and in a sense love how human they feel, even if the context of their daily lives is completely alien to us. 
perhaps the true beauty of this story’s context is that you get to see that in the end we are all human, we can all make mistakes; however, the more important point is that what we chose to do after we have made mistakes is what defines our character. 
i highly recommend this series for any­one looking to procrastinate or for any­one looking for their next quality netflix binge. 
Contact Juan Ramon Cancio Vela at jcancio@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

nFl will catch up to speedy Qbs 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
sports writer 
with the kickoff of nFl sea­son today, you, like myself, probably have been sufficiently inundated with nFl news. as a result, by now, you surely know that geno smith will be starting for the new york Jets and Terrelle pryor will be start­ing for the oakland raiders in week 1. 
These moves reflect a larger movement in the nFl as a whole, as teams have begun to shift from the classic pocket passer to more mobile quarter­backs. in their pre-draft work­outs, both pryor and smith ran sub-4.6 forty-yard dashes, with pryor running a blazing 4.38. currently, passers who can run a 40-yard dash in under 
4.6 seconds account for more than a quarter of nFl starting quarterbacks. 
of the nine speedsters start­ing at quarterback in week 1, all but one were drafted in 2011, 2012 or 2013. conversely, of the 19 starting quarterbacks who were drafted before 2011, michael vick is the only passer who ran under a 4.6 40-yard dash. Quarterbacks like philip rivers, Tom brady and peyton manning, with their five-sec­ond plus times, are becoming dinosaurs. 
much of this has to do with the read-option craze that started with cam newton in 2011 and was continued with robert griffin iii and colin kaepernick in 2012. The read option was incredibly suc­cessful in 2012, as these young quarterbacks dominated nFl headlines. i wouldn’t bank on the same being true this year in 2013. 
This “electric” little phase reminds me of the nFl’s stint with the wildcat formation a few years back. That all started when the dolphins marched into Foxboro, mass. and upset the patriots in week 3 of the 2008 season, handing new england their first regular season loss since 2006. in that game, the dolphins went into the wildcat formation six times. on those six plays, miami gained 119 yards and scored four touchdowns. 
but, where is the wildcat now? 
defenses quickly learned how to counter it. in this day and age, nFl defenders are just too athletic. with all that ath­leticism to play with and sound teaching and fundamentals, nFl defensive coordinators promptly adapted. when the patriots traveled to miami nine weeks later, the patriots held the dolphins to only 25 yards on eight carries from the wildcat formation and won 48-28. 
There are few things on this planet that adapt faster than nFl defenses. The coaching is just too good and the athletes too gifted. sure, the read-option has been tougher on defensive coordinators than the wildcat was. it still was a resounding success late in the postseason, as kaepernick ran all over green bay for 181 yards. 
That will change. 
now, defensive coordinators have been gifted an entire off­season to develop a plan for the read-option. it would be safe to say that a large portion of the last eight months have been devoted to figuring out a way to contain the kaepernicks, newtons and griffins of the nFl. 
many will argue that the read-option is an entirely dif­ferent beast than the wildcat, with a more functional passer taking the snap. others will cite the continued success of the read-option at the college football level. some will argue these quarterbacks are just too incredibly gifted to slow down. This year, those young passers continue to be taken early and often in fantasy football drafts, as fans and pundits alike look forward to the age of the dual-threat nFl quarterback. 
maybe i’m just a hater and a contrarian, but i don’t buy it. i refuse to anoint these young guns as the future of the nFl. i maintain my faith in the adaptability of nFl defenses. in my mind, this is just a phase, an nFl fling with the college game. 
i will go out on a limb and say that all the fans who took dual-threat quarterbacks early in fantasy drafts will be kicking themselves in december. i will go out on a limb and say that, in december, sportscenter will be smothered with analysts highlighting how well nFl defenses adapted. 
while all this is going on, i will be sitting back and enjoy­ing my peyton manning led fantasy football team. maybe i’m old school, but i maintain my faith in the Tom bradys and peyton mannings of the nFl. sure, as a fan, i don’t support either of them. but, as an nFl aficionado, i’d take either of them any day with their pocket passing and 5.2 40-yard dashes over these young speedsters. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 
Masterson injured as Indians fall to Orioles 
Associated Press 
cleveland — Justin masterson’s health is in seri­ous doubt. The indians’ playoff chances are just as iffy. 
masterson was pulled from his start in the second inning with soreness in his left side and cleveland’s hitters stayed in a collective slump monday night with a 7-2 loss to the baltimore orioles, one of the teams the indians are scrapping with for the al wild card. 
masterson felt tightness in his side in the first inning, and after applying a heat ointment between innings, cleveland’s all-star ace took the mound in the second thinking he would be able to continue. 
but after a few pitches, his outing was done — and it’s pos­sible his season could be over as well. 
“it just tightened up on me,” masterson (14-10) said. “i went out to throw and it was like, ‘oh, boy.’ i couldn’t get through a pitch. i was trying to sink ‘em in there, but it wasn’t going to work.” 
masterson will undergo an mri and other tests Tuesday. Those results could determine whether the indians will con­tinue to battle for one of two playoff spots. 
“hopefully it’s nothing seri­ous,” all-star second baseman Jason kipnis said. “definitely love to have the big fella out there for us. he’s our ace.” 
bud norris (10-10) stayed unbeaten as a starter with baltimore and nate mclouth homered and had three rbis as the orioles moved 1½ games ahead of the indians in the wild-card standings. 
norris allowed one run — a homer to kipnis in the sev­enth — and four hits in seven innings. The right-hander im­proved to 4-0 in seven starts with the orioles, who acquired 

FOR SALE 
Irish Rules! @ teangaleanga.com A Grammar of Modern Irish @ Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
CONDO FOR SALE - SEDGWICK HOUSE $119,900: 
Large beautiful 3 bedroom 2.5 bath condo. Great view of river and park. Underground garage. Individual storage units. Well maintained se­cured building. Lots of amenities. 
Located in Mishawaka. Call Beth Sargent Re/Max 574-235­3088 or Estella 574-255-3862 
him at the July 31 trading dead­line from houston. 
matt wieters hit a two-run homer in the ninth and brian roberts drove in two runs for the orioles, who didn’t take any satisfaction in not having to face masterson for more than two innings. 
“you hate to see that,” mclouth said. “i feel really bad for him. he can go through stretches of a game where he’s so dominant. it does make a difference.” 
masterson said it’s possible he could only miss a few days and that some rest will help. however, he also realizes the tests could reveal something more significant. 
“it’s not the best-case sce­nario,” he said. “so if it is any more serious than i think it is, we have some good guys in place that can do a lot of work. we’re hoping things will be all right. we have a lot of guys com­ing up who can help out and do a good job. 
“i think you’re going to see the guys really battle over the next 25 games that we got. 
“That’s going to show up whether i’m here or not.” 
with just one month left, the indians aren’t going to take any chances with masterson, their leader in wins, innings and just about everything else. 
“it’s hard to quantify,” indians manager Terry Francona said when asked about masterson’s value. “he’s our best pitcher. but when things don’t go your way, you can either feel sorry for your­selves or you can find a way to shine. i hope that we are able to come back, whether it takes ev­erybody in the bullpen or guys on the bench, keep fighting. 
“That’s the best way to do it.” 
after dropping two of three in boston and new york, the orioles, who staggered through a 12-14 august, arrived in cleveland needing to string some wins together. 
“i knew that schedule was go­ing to be a challenge,” manager buck showalter said before the game. “we’re .500 in our last 10 games. is it half full or half empty?” 
norris provided some more optimism, striking out eight and keeping his record unblem­ished in seven starts since join­ing baltimore. he allowed just one hit through five innings, and picked michael brantley off second in the second. 
The indians are sliding in the wrong direction. 
They went 1-5 on a trip to atlanta and detroit, only sal­vaging the finale sunday thanks to a ninth-inning grand slam by mike aviles to beat the Tigers. 
masterson initially showed discomfort while working to wieters leading off the second. he grimaced and flared his elbow at his side, a motion that sent Francona to the mound accompanied by a trainer. 
The right-hander stayed in the game, but after allowing a single to wieters, he threw an 87 mph fastball to nick markakis and paused. 
catcher carlos santana head­ed to the mound and shortstop asdrubal cabrera immedi­ately waved toward the dugout, bringing Francona again. 
he took the ball from masterson, who dejectedly walked off the field and then disgustedly tossed a cup of wa­ter in the dugout before heading to the clubhouse. 
“There wasn’t any pull or anything like that that i’m aware of,” masterson said. “we’re going to get a few more things checked out over the next couple days.” 
preston guilmet replaced masterson and gave up a single to markakis. with one out, mclouth hit an apparent rbi double to center. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the ri ght to edit all classifieds 
for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT 
IRISHCROSSINGS TOWNHOME for rent from ND Alum for 14-15 yr; 4 bdrm/3.5 bath; call/text John 281-635-2019;email john.dimpel@ raymondjames.com 
HOMES AVAILABLE FOR ND FOOTBALL: Please email for info and photos nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
WANTED 
Want to make extra $$$$ with a neurotech company? Triple Domer needs a fluent Chinese-speaking stu­dent/grad student asap to assist in some translation work for a soon-to­launch company in China. Possible long term possibilities. Contact Dr. Fleming at kevin@kevinflemingphd. com 
PERSONAL 
Private Voice Lessons for Children 
and Adults. 574-256-9836 
ND alum seeks 2 tickets for Music Lessons: Guitar, Bass, Oklahoma game. Phone 319-541-Mandolin, Dulcimer, Autoharp, 2099 or 319-337-2244 Ukulele. 574-256-9836 


ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2013 | The observer 


O’Malley 
conTinued From page 16 
know we can shut out teams like [no. 9] ucla.” 
heading into his fourth sea­son as o’malley’s coach, clark said he has seen the field ex­perience mature o’malley as a player. 
“o’malley is a very good player, and this year he has become even better knowing when to pressure and when to play softer,” clark said. “Times before he might have been too impulsive, but he is becoming more cerebral on the field.” 
in order to set himself and his team up for success on the field, o’malley must pre­pare himself mentally prior to game time. 
“my mindset is that i need to get all the little things done beforehand and then let the big things fall into place,” o’malley said. “i feel that you need to keep your mind in a good place, put yourself in the right spot and make sure you’re focused.” 
in addition to preparing himself before game time, o’malley has an important role in pumping up the rest of the team as well. 
“his actions on the field are great, but he does this pre­game pump up for the team,” shipp said. “The team really respects him and listens to him for that, so he brings a lot of heart and gets the team ready.” 
as o’malley and the irish are preparing to take to the field for their regular season, o’malley said he is excited for the team’s first season in the acc to begin. 
“i’m really excited about be­ing in the acc because it’s the best soccer conference in the country, and i know our team is capable of winning every game,” o’malley said. “i want us to be known as the new team that beat them all.” 
o’malley and the irish will ride that confidence into a huge acc test this weekend, as they take on no. 3 north carolina on sunday at alumni stadium. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles race with alumnae 


paid adverTisemenT 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports writer 
This saturday, saint mary’s will host its annual alumnae race. Following last weekend’s fourth place finish at the wabash hokum karem race, the belles will look to have some fun and get a good run in as they welcome back former belles runners. 
“it should be a great time though and i’m hoping to see continued solid work out of the ladies,” belles coach Jacqueline bauters said. 
in contrast with last week’s four-mile relays, this weekend, the saint mary’s runners will compete in the season’s first 5-kilometer race (5k). last year, senior Jessica biek starred in these races, even posting the schools fifth-best 5k time. last 
paid adverTisemenT 
weekend, freshman brittany beeler partnered with biek to continue her streak of strong finishes by coming in fifth place overall and first for the belles with a time of 23:51.45. 
“brittany beeler has been an excellent training companion for biek,” bauters said. “i think their partnering up will take them and the team places this fall.” 
along with beeler, four other freshmen made their debuts at the wabash hokum karen race. among the standouts de­buting was kaitlyn alessi, who partnered with senior sarah Thompson to finish with a time of 25:52.85, good for third for saint mary’s and 15th overall. not to be outdone, all of the freshmen had strong debuts last weekend and have been working hard to improve on their times for this weekend’s race. 
“we will have to see how things shake out in another week, but i’m hoping there isn’t much of a gap [between our other run­ners],” bauters said. “Time will tell.” 
with so many newcomers, the belles have looked to some of their returning runners to step up. last weekend, such a perfor­mance came from the pairing of junior samee chittenden and sophomore allie danhof, who had the team’s second-best time at 24:10.75, and finished in sev­enth place for the belles. 
The belles will return to action with their alumnae this saturday at 9 a.m. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Thompson returns as assistant coach 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
when head coach Jay louderback learned that he would need to look for a new as­sistant coach at the end of last season, he says he had a pretty good idea of whom he wanted for the job. 
he immediately thought of former irish players catrina and christian Thompson, twin sis­ters and doubles partners who were the no. 1 doubles tandem in the country during for parts of the 2005 and 2006. since the two graduated in 2007, both had be­come assistant coaches, catrina at boise state and christian at denver. 
“it’s been great to get some of our ex-players to come back as assistants,” louderback said. “christian, she had just gone to denver and was enjoying it, so catrina was really the first one we were looking at. 
“i called the boise coach just to see if we could talk to her, and he was really amazing about it. he felt like it was somewhere she’d like to be.” 
catrina Thompson had been teammates with kelcy Flores, louderback’s previous assis­tant coach, while the two were students at notre dame. she had heard that Flores and her husband had decided to relo­cate to Tulsa, and she jumped at the opportunity to return to the program. 
“it feels like a homecoming, be­ing back on campus,” Thompson said. “being back with Jay and then just being back here at notre dame, you get chills walking around campus.” 
during her collegiate career, Thompson was a three-time iTa all-american for her dou­bles play, as well as the big east championship mvp in 2005 and 2006. she and her sister won the iTa all-american championship in 2005, and advanced to the quarterfinals of the ncaa championship in 2007. she be­gan her career playing in the no. 3 or 4 spot in dual matches, but moved up to the no. 1 position for her junior and senior years. 
“she had a big game,” louderback said. “she had a big serve, a really, really good fore­hand, volleyed well, but was just also very competitive, a great, great competitor.” 

the coming months. while the  where we have some going to one  
team usually has about nine play- tournament, some to another, so  
ers, this year there are 12 athletes  she’ll be traveling with some of  
on the roster. That means more  them, just her.”  
individual sessions, more hitting  and while Thompson said she  
and more split-squad weekends.  thinks the current squad has  
“we’ve got quite a few [players]  enough talent to win a confer- 
who like to hit extra and do extra  ence title, she’s also happy to be  
work, so with that many we’re  back at a program that feels like  
really busy,”  louderback said.  home.  
“and we’re splitting our fall up,  “obviously,  i’m  biased,  but  
WEI LIN | The Observer  paid adverTisemenT  
Thompson,  who  originally  

hails from las vegas, didn’t move straight to coaching after gradua­tion. she played professionally in a series of tournaments, winning one title apiece in 2007 and 2008 (her doubles team also took two wins as challengers in the sum­mer of 2006). Thompson also worked as a tennis instructor at the sutton east Tennis club in new york city from 2008 to 2011. 
Thompson began her coaching career as a volunteer assistant for yale in 2010, which she saw as a way to stay connected to tennis even as her playing career ended. 
“i was six years old when i start­ed, and it’s always been a part of my life, so it’s tough to hang up the racket,” Thompson said. “and coaching, what better way to be able to help other players?” 
Thompson spent the last two years at boise state. in 2013, the broncos went 13-10, and Thompson was named the iTa mountain region assistant coach of the year. 
“having the two years at boise state, you feel more comfortable with the on-court coaching expe­rience,” Thompson said. “i think you become more passionate as you get more years under your belt coaching.” 
she’ll need that enthusiasm in 
paid adverTisemenT 

[louderback] runs one of the best programs in the country, and i really don’t think there’s any coach who cares more about his players,” Thompson said. “so to be back at a program like notre dame, a top program, is obvi­ously an amazing opportunity.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 




irish defense have allowed 

“in the short time i was in it, for a release him. 
Naughton 
Jackson 
only three goals through four 

while there, i held the notre dame “it was kind of bittersweet,” he 
conTinued From page 16 
conTinued From page 16 

single-season passing record. said. “it was at that point i knew 
games. The anthropology and 

the other guys that had carried That was before brady Quinn and i would have to give up playing 
team and all-big east rookie spanish double major has even 

that team for years and years, it a couple other guys came along and it would be the end of my 
team. found new ways to leave her 

was basically just turning over and started running that caliber career. on the good side, though, 
naughton’s successful mark in the stats sheet — she 

a new leaf,” he said. “whenever of offense for three or four years i’m still part of football, i’m still 
freshman season also helped added a goal and an assist in 

a new quarterback steps in, the as compared to me only running part of the sport that i love. i get 
her land an expanded role on notre dame’s 4-1 win over 

notre dame nation is pretty much it for one. to pass on knowledge and help 
the united states under-20 northwestern on aug. 25. 

holding their breath just not know-“i think i would have fared pret-other guys.” 
national Team, as she started “it’s exciting because [de­

ing how it’s going to unfold. we ty well if that was the system i was The 2000 marketing gradu­
both matches on the team’s fenders] don’t usually score, 

were able to come out and we were in for a longer amount of time.” ate said his coaching style is not 
sweden exhibition tour in so those are always fun mo-

able to make notre dame nation after his notre dame career about teaching his quarterback 
may. ments,” she said. “Those are 
“personally, [playing on the exciting times, but just as long 

proud.” concluded, Jackson played four to throw the ball. 
Jackson worked with, among seasons with the denver broncos “it’s more about giving him the 
national team] just helped as we keep making those op-
with my speed of play and portunities, then it will be fun 

other coaches, urban meyer while before heading north of the border knowledge between the ears,” 
made me have to be con-down the road.” 

meyer was the notre dame receiv-to play in the canadian Football Jackson said. “if he knows where 
sistent on a regular basis,” waldrum anticipates many 

ers coach. at the time, the irish league (cFl). Jackson played to go with the ball, to me, that’s 
naughton said. exciting times ahead for a

were primarily an option team eight seasons in the cFl and won more important than how he 
The under-20 national player he believes could be one 

with bits of the spread offense three grey cups — two with the throws or how he looks when he 
Team experience also al-of the best at a position where 

mixed in as well. bc lions and one with the Toronto throws.” 
lowed the breen-phillips resi-notre dame has been tradi­

“we ran a number of different of-argonauts. he said the adjustment Jackson said he does not have 
dent to spend more time with tionally strong. 

fenses and being part of the spread to the cFl was a difficult one. an ultimate coaching destina­
her college teammates, as she “i’ve always said i think 

offense is what coach meyer defi-“you have to get used to a big-tion and is content to be where 
trained with sophomore for-[naughton] can leave here 

nitely had his hand in on,” Jackson ger field and the goalposts being he is right now. 
ward crystal Thomas, sopho-in a couple of years and be 

said. “he would work with the in the front of the end zone and a “if it happens, it happens,” he 
more forward cari roccaro, one of the best central backs 

quarterbacks as well as the receiv-12th man being on the field as op-said. “i don’t have a set goal, per 
freshman midfielder morgan that’s played here, and we’ve 

ers, getting the game plan down. posed to 11 and then only having se, of ‘i have to be here or i have 
andrews and freshman goal-had some good ones,” he said. 

That’s when i was able to really two downs to get a first down as to be there.’ i’m happy where i 
keeper kaela little in various “she’s just so competitive and 

take time with coach meyer and opposed to three,” he said. “There am here north of the border. if 
national team camps. so strong physically, she’s got 

try to learn how to read defenses in were a few adjustments in dealing the opportunity presents itself, 
“it was so much fun to be the physical presence, and the 

regards to the spread offense.” with that. The game is a lot faster it’ll be something i have to think 
able to play with all those size, the strength, the height. 

meyer revolutionized college than american football.” about and i’ll cross that bridge 
girls,” naughton said. “i katie right now is well on her 

football with his spread option he retired in February of this at that time. i’m in the here and 
can’t wait to be able to play way toward having that whole 

attack and unique use of mobile year, capping a career in which now as far as the bc lions and 
with them more this season package.” 

quarterbacks. Jackson said his ca-he threw for 7,878 yards and 55 the cFl. i can’t complain about 
because i know we’ll all do naughton and the irish will 

reer would have been better if he touchdowns, to coach the lions’ it.” 
great, and it’s just going to be return to action against detroit 

had exclusively been in meyer’s quarterbacks. Jackson, 36, lives in vancouver 
a good year.” on sunday at alumni stadium. 

offense. Jackson said the lions received and is married with three kids. 
so far, this season has been 

“i think i would have been awe-permission to speak with him 
a good one for naughton, Contact Brian Hartnett at 

some in it, being a mobile quar-about the job and a couple months Contact Matthew DeFranks at 
as she and the rest of the bhartnet@nd.edu 

terback with a lot of arm,” he said. later, Jackson asked Toronto to mdefrank@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2013 | The observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: whitney cummings, 31; beyonce knowles, 32; wes bentley, 35; drew pinsky, 55. 
Happy Birthday: clear up emotional issues that are weighing you down and stand­ing between you and your goals. your keen sense of awareness and fine-tuned intu­ition will help you see the motives behind situations that have been confusing in the past. recognize your talent and put what you love to do most at the forefront of your intentions and plans for the future. your numbers are 5, 9, 20, 26, 35, 39, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): it’s what you do, not what you say, that counts. put pres­sure on anyone holding up your ability to forge ahead. productivity will bring you the good fortune and unique opportunities you’ve been waiting for. relationships will require compromise. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take on any competition you face with determination and confidence that you can surpass anyone who challenges you. keep your ideas a secret until you are ready to launch your plans. you will impress someone who values what you have to offer. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): listen attentively but don’t make promises based on hearsay. unexpected circumstances will occur, leaving you in an uncompromising position if you act too quickly. romantic relationships will be enticing, but mustn’t disrupt your work or professional goals. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): share your thoughts and talk over your concerns, but refrain from making a decision that will affect you emotionally or physically. you may feel you need a change, but let common sense and practicality be your guide concerning personal matters. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): protect your home and family and refuse to let anyone stand between you and your personal goals. love is in the stars, and a change of plans will help secure a position that will improve your prospects and your professional standing. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t be fooled by what others claim to have accom­plished. you have as much to be proud of as the next person. steady increases are apparent, and by sharing your expertise, your value will be recognized. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): make changes that free up time. go over personal papers and make adjustments that secure your financial or legal position. Fixing up a space where you can work on something you enjoy doing will boost your desire to be entrepreneurial. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): a private look into an idea or plan will spark an interest and bring about discussions regarding a lucrative prospect. keep an open mind and look at all your resources before making a decision. you will get further ahead on your own. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you won’t see clearly, leading to disagreements with a friend, relative or co-worker. listen to what’s being said before you ruin a good relationship. deception and disillusionment are apparent. don’t let an old love connection cost you emotionally. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): The practical choice will attract you, but a friend or lover will push you to be more extravagant. a reasonable solution can be found if you use your tactful way of offering something that is within your budget. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take care of medical or physical improvement issues you have. what you do now financially, emotionally or medically will lead to greater vocational opportunities in the future. a romantic relationship will benefit from the choices you make. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): shoot for the stars. you have control over the situation you face, so carry on with confidence, moving effortlessly to show others how ca­pable you are. a partnership will offer benefits, but you must run the show. 

Birthday Baby: you have drive and determination. you think big and strive for perfection. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 






make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WAKING THE ECHOES | Jarious Jackson 
Jackson recalls debut win over Michigan 
Former quarterback led No. 22 Irish to upset of No. 5 Wolverines in first career start in 1998 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
Tom brady was on the opposite sideline. The wolverines had rings on their fingers. michigan was a top-five team. 
sound intimidating? not to quar­terback Jarious Jackson, who was starting his first game in the 1998 season opener. 
“For me personally, i wasn’t thinking of anything they had ac­complished in the past,” Jackson said in a phone interview with The observer. “we weren’t thinking about ourselves, what we had done in the past. i was pretty much tak­ing it for what it was, every game.” 
no. 22 notre dame responded from a 13-6 halftime deficit to explode for 30 unanswered sec­ond-half points and upset no. 5 michigan 36-20. Jackson did not post impressive numbers, but became the ninth consecutive first-time starter to win his first game. 
he completed 4 of 10 passes for 96 yards with two touchdowns and an interception. he also added 16 car­ries for 62 yards on the ground. 
“The only numbers i care about, even to this day as a coach, are wins and losses,” Jackson said. “i’ve al­ways been that way. i didn’t care if i threw three touchdowns with three interceptions … but the biggest stat that i cared about after the game was the fact that we won.” 
Jackson did, however, provide one of the biggest highlights of the day when he connected with re­ceiver raki nelson on a 36-yard score in the third quarter. 
on the first play following a michigan fumble, Jackson faked an option play to the fullback as the of­fensive line shifted left. right guard Jerry wisne accidentally stepped on Jackson, who struggled to keep his balance, stumbling back eight yards before lofting a pass down the left sideline to nelson. nelson ran under the ball at 11-yard line with no wolverines within 10 yards of him. 
“i was able to keep my balance and i could still see raki nelson,” Jackson said. “even though i was stumbling and bumbling, i still kind of saw raki. as soon as i came up, i knew guys were going to be there to hit me. i just wanted to get the ball gone as fast as i could and he was able to finish the play.” 
after the game, some irish play­ers lifted coach bob davie onto their shoulders and carried him to midfield. Jackson said the win was big for not only himself, but also for davie too. 
“dealing with the rivalry that we’ve had with michigan for de­cades, dealing with the first year without ron powlus and some of 
see Jackson PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

sophomore captains irish 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
entering the season off a summer that saw her gain valuable international soc­cer experience, notre dame sophomore defender katie naughton expected to contin­ue developing as a critical cog in the irish defense. but she didn’t expect to take on a role normally reserved for seniors. 
shortly before the start of the season, members of the no. 8 irish squad selected naughton as one of the team’s three captains, thrusting her into a rather unexpected position of authority. 
“i’m honored they thought that i could fill that role that [former irish defender] Jazmin hall had left behind,” naughton said. “i just want to make sure i do a good job and represent the team as best i can.” 
naughton, who shares the honor of tri-captain with senior midfielders mandy laddish and elizabeth Tucker, said she tries to lead the team with her quiet yet steady de­fensive efforts. 
“i think i tend to lead more by example,” she said. “i’m not necessarily the most vocal or rambunctious player on the field, but i do try to do things the right way, and i think that’s what people see the most.” 


irish coach randy waldrum said naughton’s leadership on the field is exactly what makes her suited to be the team’s captain. 
“[naughton’s] one of those kids that does everything right,” he said. “she plays hard, she trains hard, she’s a great player, but she’s humble, she’s very good in the classroom, she takes care of her business there and sets a great example on the field.” 
The elk grove village, ill., native became a fixture on the irish defense last season, when she started 23 of the team’s 24 matches. her pres­ence in a defense that posted a 0.73 goals-against average last season became noted early, and she was named to both the all-big east third 
see naughTon PAGE 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 
O’Malley serves as vocal leader 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
every team needs a voice 
— a voice to lead, motivate and engage. For the irish, that voice is senior cap­tain and defender andrew o’malley. 
o’malley and fifth-year­senior and captain grant van de casteele are the heart of the no. 5 irish defense, but it is o’malley’s voice that is heard across the field. 
“one of the things o’malley brings to the table is that he is a good on-the­field leader,” irish coach bobby clark said. “it is so important to have someone in your defense that talks well, and that is something he does exceptionally well.” 
it’s not only clark that 
recognizes  the  power  of  
o’malley’s  voice  on  the  
field,  but  also  his  fellow  

teammates. 
“i think he is definitely the best person on our team in terms of verbal communica­tion,” senior captain and for­ward harrison shipp said. 
shipp said that even though o’malley’s vocal leadership is coming from the backline, it has an excep­tional impact on the offense. 
“he sets the tone for what we are going to do,” shipp said. “his strong communica­tive skills help us form defen­sive lines.” 
Though o’malley has a lead­ership presence acclaimed by coaches and players alike, he doesn’t let the title of captain get to his head. 
“being a captain is just a title — everyone leads on the team,” o’malley said. 
even so, o’malley himself still recognizes the unique power his voice carries on the field. 
“when something needs to be said on the field, i say it,” o’malley said. “everyone likes to say they lead by example, but i know i lead by voice.” 
in addition to his voice, o’malley brings plenty of tal­ent to the notre dame lineup. named big east defensive player of week after helping the irish beat duke 1-0 last season, o’malley said that the irish defense’s greatest strength is its experience. 
“after playing teams like the mexican national team last spring and against play­ers who are now getting paid millions of dollars in the mls, there’s not a lot that rattles we 
see o’malley PAGE 11 






