The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 96 | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Students stand with Bangladesh 
University members call for justice for war criminals, protest life sentence of Islamic party leader 
By MARISA IATI 
news writer 
approximately 16 notre dame students from Bangladesh are standing in solidarity with their nation from more than 8,000 miles away. 
protests broke out across Bangladesh on Feb. 5 after abdul kader mullah, the leader of the country’s largest islamic party, Jamaat-e-islami, received a sen­tence of life in prison for crimes committed during the war for liberation from pakistan in 1971, according to Time magazine. Jamaat-e-islami members col­laborated with pakistan to per­petrate widespread rape, mass killings and a push against intel­lectuals, also according to Time. 
graduate student Tahsin ahmed said many Bangladeshis thought the life sentence was not sufficiently severe. 
“people thought that if some­body is given [a] life sentence for doing this sort of crime, then other crimes, like normal mur­ders and other rapes, they don’t have justification for giving … capital punishment,” ahmed said. “Their goal was to protest against that.” 
ahmed said mullah should re­ceive the death penalty because not only did he help plan Jamaat­e-islami’s crimes, but he also participated in them. 
“if someone who is actually in­volved in a crime is not given the capital punishment, what will happen to the other people [who 
see Bangladesh PAGE 6 

Courtesy of Rumana Reaz 
Students gathered on God Quad on Feb. 8 to express respect for the victims of war crimes committed in Bangladesh in 1971 and demand capital punishment for Islamic party leader Abdul Kader Mullah. 



Aid offered in Zhang’s memory 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
news editor 
when saint mary’s then-freshman Ziqi Zhang entered electrical engineering profes­sor alan seabaugh’s office last year to discuss her applica­tion for a summer ndnano undergraduate research Fellowship (nurF), seabaugh said she knew Zhang was a spe­cial student. 
“you could just see she was very mature beyond her years … not so self-centered,” seabaugh said. “she was just open to ev­erybody and wanted to know about all different things. we decided to offer the position to her, which was very rare for that to happen for a freshman.” 
Zhang spent the summer of 2012 doing research in a notre dame nanoscience lab. Just months after completing her fellowship, the sophomore from china died in a bike accident near the entrance of saint mary’s campus oct. 18. 

To “carry her memory a little farther,” seabaugh said one of this year’s nurF fellowships will be dedicated to Zhang. 
“we wanted … to honor her because she touched everybody here in a big way,” he said. “i think none of us appreciated her as much as we did after all this happened because she 
see Zhang PAGE 6 


election results revealed 
Observer Staff Report 
The Judicial council announced the results of the class council exec­utive elections Thursday evening. 
next year’s senior class council will be led by president carolina wilson, vice president patrick Touhy, treasurer elizabeth gibbons and secretary michael nichols. 
rising juniors will be served by president olivia lamagna, vice president caitlin smith, treasurer Briggs hoyt and secretary martin walsh. 
sophomore class council leadership will consist of John grefenstette, michael desantis, Jane goodson and megan schilling, who will serve as presi­dent, vice president, treasurer and secretary, respectively. 
elections for Freshman class council will take place in the fall. 


Duncan develops new tradition in style 


By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
residents of duncan hall have found an easier way to get their hands on a green blaz­er than winning the masters Tournament. 
duncan presented 105 highlanders with kelly green blazers at the hall’s first ever blazer ceremony Thursday night in the hall’s main lounge. 
duncan hall president opened the event by introducing a speech from senior Josh whelan, who was one of the organizers behind the blazers. Junior Joseph whalen, duncan hall vice presi­dent, read each individuals name as he received his blazer. 
whelan said the event was less about the ceremony itself and more about the blazers. 
“The ceremony was a little ex­citement at the end of a long pro­cess,” whelan said. “it was more of a formality to make this more of a tradition. The important thing is having the blazers and being able to wear them to our events.” 
whelan said part of his mo­tivation for starting the blazer ceremony was duncan’s lack of traditions because it is a relative­ly new dorm. 
“i was looking for a way to cre­ate a tradition and change the reputation of duncan from the new dorm with nicer rooms to a dorm with its own traditions,” he said. 
in the future, the blazer could become an identifier for duncan residents and a staple at events like pep rallies, whelan said. 
“hopefully the blazers will be something recognizable that we 
see BlaZers PAGE 6 


Body week PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 10 scene PAGE 13 hockey PAGE 24 men’s BaskeTBall PAGE 24 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What is one thing on your Notre Dame bucket list? 


Christina Gutierrez 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“plant a garden on south Quad.” 

Emily Morgan 
freshman 
pangborn hall 
“make an appearance on                                                    @ndmakeouts.” 

Henry Schneider 
sophomore 
o’neill hall 
“climb to the top of the st. mary’s water tower.” 



David Diaz 
junior 
alumni hall 

“run through stonehenge.” 

Frank Kuhny 
junior 
o’neill hall 

“play the organ in the Basilica.” 

       Ingrid Adams 

sophomore pangborn hall “get a grappling hook and climb        to the top of south.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
marisa iati peter steiner 


Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rebecca o’ neil cory Bernard katie mccarty Brian hartnett katie heit 
Graphics 
aJ godaux Brandon keelean 


Scene Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Photo 
maddie daly grant Tobin 
Viewpoint 

laura rosas Train Your Inner Jedi! Annual Bridal Expo Men’s Basketball “Indictment of Child Women’s Basketball St. Liam Hall Joyce Center Purcell Pavilion Labor by the Arts” Purcell Pavilion 
3:30p.m.-4:30 p.m. 9:30 a.m.-5 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. Hesburgh Center 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Workshop to cultivate Fashion shows by Notre Dame vs. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Notre Dame vs. 

Corrections 

focus and calmness. Ashlee Rene’s Bridal. Cincinnati. CCHR Symposium. Syracuse. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

National Sports and Saturday Vigil Mass Campus Girl Scouts “Accurate Filtering Four:7 Catholic 
strives for the highest standards 

Fitness Day Basilica of the Sacred Cookie Booth Sale with 3DVAR for Fellowship 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Rolfs Sports Heart. Lafortune Student Dissipative Systems” Cavanaugh Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
Recreation 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Center Hayes-Healy Center 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Center Mass in the Basilica. 2:30 p.m.-4 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Student-led 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
All day Email girlscout@ ACMS Colloquium. fellowship. 
we can correct our error. 

Free giveaways. nd.edu for information. 


RecSports ‘holiday’ supports fitness goals 

By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
in celebration of national recreational sports and Fitness day today, the office of recreational sports (recsports) is encouraging students not only to be fit, but also to inform its directors on how they are using campus facilities to accomplish their fitness goals. 
mary strebinger, communi­cations and marketing coordi­nator, said recsports will ask people who use their facilities to fill out sheets of paper with their planned activities or fitness goals for the day. 
“They’ll see these slips of pa­per that say ‘it’s your day, cele­brate your way,’” strebinger said. “we’ll post the stories through­out the day to share with our community.” 
strebinger said this is recsports’ second year celebrat­ing the day started by the national intramural-recreational sports association (nirsa). 
“it’s our national holiday, not just for recsports, but for any recreational program [in a] col­legiate or university institution,” she said. “nirsa started this ini­tiative about 10 years ago, and it’s growing in the community as a day to be recognized.” 
recsports is also using the day to promote the activities and programs it provides throughout the year, strebinger said. signs around campus athletic and ex­ercise facilities will share statis­tics about recsports’ events and users. 
recsports offered 372 pro­grams during the 2011-12 school year, according to the office’s year in review report. rolfs sports recreation center and rockne memorial had 245,676 and 137, 217 recreational users, respectively. 
recsports also raised $8,500 for local charities and part­nered with the women’s bas­ketball team and the college of science to sponsor the pink Zone spin-a-Thon. 
strebinger said recsports of­fers opportunities for all com­munity members, including non-students. 
“it’s not just for students,” she said. “i think they [the com­munity] think we do a lot of in­tramural sports, competitions, fitness classes,” she said, “but we also have family programs, swim lessons and outdoor sports programs.” 
strebinger emphasized recsports is a service-driven business and hopes to better learn its users’ goals through national recreational sports and Fitness day. 
“we want to know a little bit more about the people who do come in,” she said. “i hope peo­ple enjoy the day, and even if you can’t celebrate on Friday, find another day to celebrate.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

week educates students on positive body image 
image, which is a common cause project heal’s mission will be-
By KELLY KONYA 

news writer of eating disorders. only one in gin monday with a panel dis­10 of the approximately 24 mil-cussion titled “Biting Back” at 7 
next week, saint mary’s an-lion americans suffering from p.m. in madeleva hall. assistant nual love your Body week will eating disorders receives the professor of psychology Bettina educate students on how to necessary treatment, accord-spencer and 2011 alumna gina maintain a healthy and self-ac-ing to the national association storti will speak Tuesday at 7 cepting lifestyle in connection of anorexia nervosa and p.m. in vander vennet Theatre with national eating disorders associated disorders. in the student center, present-week. as an undergraduate at the ing their research in a talk titled 
sophomore kelly gutrich, co-college, grasso helped begin “love your body? Body image chair of love your Body week, love your Body week in 2011 at smc compared to nd.” on said 2011 alumna christina and spoke about her own battle wednesday, assistant professor grasso inspired the planning with anorexia at one of the first of communication studies Terri committee to incorporate eat-events. russ will lecture on “Beautiful ing disorder awareness into “i am more than willing to get Body Battles, why are we all the week’s events. grasso co-a little uncomfortable in front of chasing unicorns?” at 7 p.m. in founded the new york chapter a crowd disclosing parts of my carroll auditorium in madeleva of project heal: help to eat, own experience for the good of hall. accept and live, which pro-others,” grasso said. “i battled These events are in keeping motes self-acceptance and posi-an eating disorder for 10 years, with the project heal mission tive body image. and it gives great meaning to to promote positive mental and eating disorders and raise funds assists women who cannot af­
grasso said members of my journey to know that i have physical approaches to body im-to provide scholarships to send ford treatment for these dis-project heal work as mentors made the lives of others even age among women. applicants to eating disorder orders. This treatment costs and consultants to diminish slightly easier.” “as an organization, we treatment,” grasso said. between $500 and $2,000 per society’s obsession with body This year’s events related to strive to raise awareness about grasso said project heal day and is not usually covered 

by health care, according to the paid adverTisemenT 
south carolina department of mental health. 
“since our launch five years ago, we have raised over $200,000 and sent seven applicants to treatment, all of whom are doing well and reclaiming their lives” grasso said. “inpatient and resi­dential treatment for eating dis­orders are often imperative for survival and recovery.” 
visit theprojectheal.org for more information on project heal. For more information on love your Body week, visit saint­marys.edu/love-your-body-week 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 





The oBserver | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

annual plunge benefits orphans 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
students can provide hope for hope on saturday by taking an icy dip in saint Joseph’s lake during the fourth annual polar Bear plunge. 
The fundraising event will take place from 2 to 4 p.m. saturday at saint Joseph’s Beach and is a joint ef­fort between Badin and dillon halls. 
Badin hall president cristin pacifico said the plunge raises mon­ey for the hope initiative, a charity in nepal that promotes education and operates an orphanage. she said Badin’s hall fellow, industrial de­sign professor ann-marie conrado, helped start the organization. 
“all the money and proceeds we raise from this event go to nepal to help orphans go to school,” pacifico said. 
participating in the plunge is free, but pacifico said students can do­nate$5 to receive raffle tickets for the event. pacifico said ticket pre-sales will be today in north and south dining halls and the laFortune studentcenter. 
“Those tickets will guarantee that you get put in a raffle for different prizes like gift cards,” pacifico said. “we’ll also be raffling off some of the fair trade goods like hats and scarves that are made by the nepali women.” 
Badin hall vice president Brianna leon said the raffle reflects hope’s support for fair trade commerce. she said Badin’s annual conscious christmas event, which takes place in the late fall, also supports this mission. 
The event coordinators hope 400 to 500 people participate in the plunge, pacifico said. she said ap­proximately 200 people participated last year and the event raised more than $2,000 in total. 
“Thanks to the funds raised from the polar Bear plunge and the other fundraisers that we do, [the orphans] are able to go to the top school in nepal,” leon said. 
pacifico said any donation is wel­come and encouraged. Those who would like to donate but not partici­pate in the plunge will still receive a ticket to enter the prize lottery. 
“i think [the money raised] really goes toward a good cause,” pacifico said. “we’ve had skype sessions with the nepali kids and …we’ve also been able to see the kids grow up and to see where that money is going, that it really does give them hope to have a better future.” 
pacifico said the plunge offers notre dame students the opportu­nity for a unique thrill. 
“what other time of your life can you dive into a freezing cold lake in February in south Bend other than the polar Bear plunge?” she said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 

Heritage Week celebrates SMC legacy 
By CAILIN CROWE 
news writer 
saint mary’s students and alumnae paid tribute to their heri­tage Thursday evening with a din­ner in the noble Family dining hall that celebrated the college’s rich history and promising future. 
The dinner also garnered en­thusiasm for the launch of the college’s capital campaign on Friday, according to a flier provid­ed at the dinner. The campaign plans to raise $80 million for scholarships, professorships, fa­cility improvements and other projects. 
at the dinner, vice president for mission sr. veronique wiedower attested to the value of saint mary’s heritage. 
“The convergence of heritage week with the capital campaign brings a special opportunity to 


“i want to do everything i can to help young women receive a saint mary’s education,” Burke said. 
Junior kat sullivan said the din­ner was an opportunity for alum­nae and students to connect. 
“it’s been amazing to interact with alumnae because these are the women giving back to our school,” she said. “i hope that i can give back to saint mary’s in the same way one day.” 
wiedower acknowledged saint mary’s history by dressing up as mother pauline o’neil, the college’s first president from 1895 to 1931. wearing o’neil’s tradi­tional garb, she said history and heritage are distinct. 
“history recalls the facts about the past,” she said. “heritage, on the other hand, is the remember­ing. a spirit that endures through time today, we are celebrating that essence at saint mary’s.” 
Burke praised the women of saint mary’s past and present. 
“The world needs saint mary’s college,” she said. “our commu­nities, our world and our families need faith-built leaders.” 
Contact Cailin Crowe at ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 

rejoice in the rich legacy that is saint mary’s and to sustain the ex­cellence of the educational oppor­tunities of which students have been afforded,” wiedower said. 
chair of the Board of Trustees mary Burke expressed apprecia­tion for her time as an undergrad­uate at the college. 

paid adverTisemenT 


Businessman urges students to think globally 

By KAITLYN RABACH 
news writer 
Thomas herder, general counsel of the energy division of siemens ag, kicked off the saint mary’s department of global studies series called “on developing global mindset” with a lecture Thursday in spes unica. 
herder said part of develop­ing a global mindset is knowing companies cannot only rely on the united states, germany and Japan. he said because many other countries are growing rapidly, there must be a shift away from a eurocentric ap­proach to business. 
“siemens looks at the global market, breaks it down into regions and then focuses in on certain countries,” herder said. “we then strategize from that mindset. we are a german company with a strong global footprint.” 
herder said cultural sensitiv­ity is essential for success in in­ternational business. 
“it is important to do your homework so you know up front what you are going to be dealing with and how you as a foreigner will be treated in that specific setting,” he said. “it is essential to understand and appreciate different cultures, but it is also important to be aware of your own perspective and what is driving you. That way you won’t let others take advantage of you in the business setting.” 

herder said taking a few basic business classes helps prepare students for the global market­place. he also emphasized the importance of having language and writing skills. 
“liberal arts education teach­es people how to think,” herder said. “i can teach people how to negotiate contracts, but i can­not teach them how to think.” 
herder urged students to take advantage of the opportunities presented to them. 
“The only constant is change,” he said. “embrace it, get used to it and look for opportunities for value-added change. Those who resist [change] are going to be left behind.” 
herder expressed the impor­tance of compliance in a world where corruption is a problem. 
compliance is important to herder, he said, because siemens had to pay $1.9 bil­lion in fines to the european commission and Justice department in 2009 for corrupt business practices. although herder was not implicated in the allegations, he said he saw the scandal’s negative affects on the company. 
“if people in our company had done the right thing, we wouldn’t have had to pay $1.9 billion in fines and a lot of fami­lies would not have suffered,” he said. “From a global per­spective, we see the darker side of corruption and the horrific effects it has on developing na­tions. i believe we are obliged to point out things that are wrong.” 
herder reminded students of the importance of common sense when traveling to unfa­miliar places. he said women should be especially careful. 
“do not let this stop you from traveling or taking advantage of job opportunities,” he said. “Just be aware of your surroundings.” 
workplace diversity is an im­portant component of develop­ing a global mindset, herder said. 
“companies are trying to get additional representation from minorities,” he said. “more rep­resentation adds to the richness of the company. each individ­ual comes with such different perspectives. This new major [of global studies] allows you to explore these different per­spectives and develop a global mindset.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 

lecture addresses evolving language 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
english professor Barry mccrea discussed the relation­ship between language and mo­dernity at the inaugural keough Family professorship of irish studies lecture Thursday in mckenna hall. 
mccrea specializes in mod­ern european and irish litera­ture. he released a book called 
“minor  languages  and  the  
modernist  imagination”  this  
year.  
The  abandonment  of  lan­ 

guage and dialects in rural com­munities is one of modernity’s immediate effects, mccrea said at the lecture. 
“The mass adoption by ru­ral population of standard languages as mediums for com­munication was a highly in­timate form of globalization, one which produced a tangible change for how language itself was produced,” he said. 
mccrea said two main fac­tors instigated the switch from dialects to regional language — people began to move to cities where a need for unity in com­munication existed, and a mass marginalization took place in the countryside as new lan­guages began to replace the old. 
“merely feeling or imagin­ing that somewhere out there, there existed another language that might be more authenti­cally their own freed writers up to experiment with the lan­guages they knew, like english,” mccrea said. “They felt that english was borrowed and there was another language for them out there to be located.” 
This sense of disconnected­ness to their native language inspired writers to use language in new ways, mccrea said. although people long for lan­guage to feel truly theirs, he said it is a natural predicament that language will always frustrate this longing. 
above all, adopting non-na­tive languages offered the writ­ers a new way to express their vision, mccrea said. 
“choosing to write as a non­native in a particular lan­guage whose vernacular life has quickly disappeared was a way for both [irish writer seán Ó] ríordáin and [italian writer pier paolo] pasolini to express … a possible utopian vision of a language in which one might feel truly native to the world,” mccrea said. “a modernist ide­al, really, of the new, perfect lan­guage for art.” 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 



Blazers 
conTinued From page 1 
can incorporate into events and into the duncan community,” he said. “They can be more than an­other apparel item.” 
duncan rector Terence Fitzgibbons said he hoped duncan residents would wear the blazers to their upcoming dance in chicago. 
whelan said the blazers ap­pealed to him personally because of his southern background. 
“coming north from savannah, ga., i’ve had to ad­just to the change from button-downs and khakis to sweatshirts and sweatpants,” he said. “i like the idea of getting something more formal for our dorm.” 
whelan said his roommate last school year developed the idea by suggesting duncan add green blazers to its apparel offerings. 
The next step was bringing the idea to duncan’s rector last spring. whelan said Fitzgibbons suggested making the purchase of duncan hall blazers a last­ing tradition open to the whole dorm. 
whelan said he took a poll of duncan residents about their interest in dorm blazers and the amount they would be willing to pay. each blazer cost $72 and the opportunity to purchase a blazer 
“I like the idea of getting something more formal for our dorm.” 
Joseph Whelan 
vice president 
Duncan Hall 
was both voluntary and avail­able to the entire dorm, he said. 
whalen said he was glad so many people participated in the event. 
“it was fantastic to see such a great turnout,” he said. “This kind of community support is important because with­out support we can’t start new traditions.” 
Contact Christian Meyers cmyers8@nd.edu 
Zhang 
conTinued From page 1 

touched so many people. you know she touched you, but you don’t know how she touched others.” 
seabaugh said this fellowship will be awarded to a student who expresses Zhang’s zeal for lab research early in his or her undergraduate career. 
“we wanted to make a fellow­ship … that will engage people at a young age and get them in the lab as she wanted to get into the lab at a young age,” he said. “it’ll give us a chance to share some stories we had about her, maybe use her life and the things she did around here to inspire others.” 
saint mary’s chemistry pro­fessor Toni Barstis, who advises the dual-degree program in en­gineering in which Zhang par­ticipated, said the dedication of the fellowship was meaningful. 
“i’m humbled and deeply grateful to dr. seabaugh for this dedication,” Barstis said. 
Zhang’s generous and energetic spirit made her “great to work with,” seabaugh said, and he was affected by that spirit when her family came to south Bend from china after their daughter’s death. 
“[Ziqi] inspired me with the way she treated others,” he said. “her family was also incredible. … you might think they would be angry about the decision 
“We wanted to make a fellowship ... that will engage people at a young age and get them in the a lab.” 
Alan Seebaugh 
professor 
electrical engineering 
to allow her to come [to notre dame], but they said they were honored that she did come. it was incredibly generous and the kind of spirit she had too. it came from her family.” 
The fellowship is flexible in the area of research it could support within engineering or science, seabaugh said. 
“we’ll be very open about where the fellowship will go,” he said. “we’ll just find the person most interested in their field of choice.” 
seabaugh said the intention is to continue funding a fel­lowship in Zhang’s honor each year. 
“we decided in our local com­munity to offer it for this year for now,” he said. “But maybe someone will come along and feel like this is a useful thing to endow.” 
although the application window has officially closed, seabaugh said students could technically still apply because final selections have not yet been made. interested students should contact seabaugh, Barstis or notre dame profes­sor heidi deethardt for more information. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
Bangladesh 
conTinued From page 1 
only  planned  the  crimes]?”  
ahmed said.  
graduate  student  rumana  

reaz arifin agreed a life sen­tence was inadequate. 
“it has been preplanned, it has been organized, it has been cold-blooded and it has been ex­ecuted,” arifin said. “it’s not just a murder. it’s a genocide.” 
ashraf khan, also a graduate student, said although mullah’s sentencing instigated the na­tionwide protests, the focus has expanded to calling for justice for all people accused of war crimes in 1971. 
ahmed said the move­ment is “very nonpolitical and nonviolent.” 
Forms of protest have includ­ed a candle vigil on valentine’s day, flying the national flag, singing the national anthem in schools and observing silence for three minutes nationwide, arifin said. she said many pro­tests occur in shahbagh square in dhaka, Bangladesh’s capital, but they are taking place in cities across the south asian nation. 
“if you think about [the fact that] the whole country is rais­
“It has been preplanned, it has been organized, it has been cold­blooded and it has been executed... It’s not just murder. It’s a genocide.” 
Rumana Reaz Arifin 
graduate student 
ing their voice or showing their protest for one single thing, then it’s really a mass upheaval,” arifin said. 
To express support for the ac­tivists, the notre dame students from Bangladesh held a symbol­ic protest Feb. 8 in front of main Building. ahmed said the group arranged candles in the shape of the Bengali numerals for “71” to express respect for the people murdered in 1971. 
“it shows we are with them,” ahmed said. “we gathered in front of the dome. we all get together and show our protest with posters, both in our own language and english to show that we want … capital punish­ment [for the war criminals].” 
Bangladeshi students at other american universities are also expressing protest, ahmed said. 
arifin said the notre dame students from Bangladesh wanted the university commu­nity to know about the situation in their country, especially be­cause the congregation of holy cross runs notre dame college in dhaka. she said the group could create an informational exhibition if community mem­bers were interested in learning more. 
“if somebody wants to know more, then we can show more,” arifin said. “we can tell them about the history.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 






EGYPT 

Youth find unique protest method 
Associated Press 
cairo — an egyptian op­position group is using a novel way to protest against president mohammed morsi: sign him up for a chance to win a trip to space. 
The april 6 youth movement said on its official Facebook page on Thursday that it had entered the islamist leader’s name in the online contest because it wanted to be rid of him. it called on sup­porters to vote for the president so he’d have a chance to win the trip into space. 
There was no immediate re­sponse from the president’s press office to an email seeking comment. 
“For sure, no one in the uni­verse can put up with blatant lies, reneging on promises ex­cept for the brotherly people of the moon,” the group wrote on its post. 

“it is for this reason that the president needs your votes. president morsi, we wish you safe travels.” 
april 6 was a driving force behind the 2011 uprising that toppled hosni mubarak’s re­gime. many of its supporters backed morsi in the June 2012 election he narrowly won to be­come egypt’s first freely elected president. 
But later, the group became among the fiercest critics of the president and his muslim Brotherhood, the fundamental­ist group from which he hails. The opposition accuses morsi of monopolizing power and going back on campaign promises to have an inclusive government and introduce far reaching reforms. 
morsi’s supporters say the new government cannot immediate­ly fix years of neglect and poor administration from mubarak’s 29-year rule. 
The group also posted a col­lage of morsi, who is a u.s.­trained engineer, in a white space suit. 
“i want to go to space because i completed my mission,” april 6 mockingly quoted morsi as say­ing below his image. 
The contest is being run by axe, a brand of men’s grooming products. it promises to send 22 people to the edge of space and back aboard a private space­ship. For the competition, axe teamed up with u.s. astronaut Buzz aldrin, the second man to walk on the moon during nasa’s apollo 11 mission in 1969. 

contestants sign up and then get their friends to vote for them. Those with the most votes move to the next stage where they compete in their own country for a chance to go into space. The top recruits advance to a space camp in orlando, Florida, where they are to take part in three training missions. a panel of space experts chooses those contestants they think are pre­pared to make the trip into space. 
The winners then are to fly 103 kilometers (64 miles) into space with the space tourism company, space expedition corp. 
paid adverTisemenT 


VENEZUELA 
chavez’s health remains secret 
Associated Press 
caracas — at caracas’ mili­tary hospital, the only outward signs that president hugo chavez is a patient inside are the motor­cades that come and go and the soldiers standing guard, some of them wearing red berets. 
a poster with a large photo of chavez smiling sits atop the dr. carlos arvelo military hospital, but it has been there since long before the socialist leader was ad­mitted upon his return from his latest cancer treatment in cuba. 
some of the president’s sup­porters shout “viva chavez!” and “he’s back!” as they drive past the hospital, which this week has be­come the new center of attention in chavez’s 21-month-long can­cer struggle. 
The government provided an update on chavez’s condition Thursday night, saying that he remained at the hospital and that “the medical treatment for the fundamental illness continues without presenting significant adverse effects.” 
information minister ernesto villegas read the statement on television, saying that a “respi­ratory insufficiency” that arose in the weeks after the surgery “persists and its tendency has not been favorable, thus it continues to be treated.” The government has said chavez is breathing through a tracheal tube. 
“The patient remains in com­munication with his relatives, with the political team of his government and in close coop­eration with his medical team,” villegas said, adding that chavez “keeps clinging to christ, with a maximum will to live.” 
The government hasn’t re­leased a single photo of chavez since his arrival in caracas on monday, and that has led some venezuelans to question wheth­er he’s actually in the hospital. others insist he is there, just out of sight while undergoing treatment. 
“There, where you see that bal­cony, the president is there,” said Juan carlos hernandez, a street vendor who pointed to the ninth floor, where chavez is said to be staying. 
hernandez, who sells snacks from a stand with a parasol, said he used to work as a military po­lice officer and provided security at the hospital from 2004 to 2006. he said the ninth floor has a spe­cial wing with various rooms where important people are typi­cally taken for treatment, includ­ing generals and other military officers. 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

SYRIA 

Bombs explode in civil war 

Associated Press 
damascus — a car bomb exploded Thursday near syria’s ruling party headquar­ters in damascus, killing at least 53 people and scattering mangled bodies among the blazing wreckage in one of the bloodiest days in the capital since the uprising began al­most two years ago. 
elsewhere in the city, two other bombs struck intelli­gence offices, killing 22, and mortar rounds hit the army’s central command, activists said. 
recent rebel advances in the damascus suburbs, combined with the bombings and three straight days of mortar attacks, mark the most sustained chal­lenge of the civil war for con­trol of the seat of president Bashar assad’s power. 
syrian state media said the car bombing near the Baath party headquarters and the russian embassy was a sui­cide attack that killed 53 civil­ians and wounded more than 200, with children among the casualties. anti-regime activ­ists put the death toll at 61, which would make it the dead­liest damascus bombing of the revolt. 
The violence has shattered the sense of normalcy that the syrian regime has desperately tried to maintain in damascus, a city that has largely been in­sulated from the bloodshed and destruction that has left other urban centers in ruins. 
The rebels launched an of­fensive on damascus in July following a stunning bombing on a high-level government crisis meeting that killed four top regime officials, including assad’s brother-in-law and the defense minister. Following that attack, rebel groups that had established footholds in the suburbs pushed in, bat­tling government forces for more than a week before being routed and swept out. 
since then, government warplanes have pounded op­position strongholds on the outskirts, and rebels have managed only small incur­sions on the city’s southern and eastern sides. 
But the recent bombings and mortar attacks suggest that in­stead of trying a major assault, rebel fighters are resorting to guerrilla tactics to loosen assad’s grip on the heavily for­tified capital. 
The fighting in damascus also follows a string of tacti­cal victories in recent weeks for the rebels - capturing the nation’s largest hydroelectric dam and overtaking airbases in the northeast - that have contributed to the sense that the opposition may be gaining some momentum. 
But damascus is the ulti­mate prize in the civil war, and many view the battle for the ancient city as the most probable endgame of a conflict that according to u.n. esti­mates has killed nearly 70,000 people. 
To defend the capital, assad is using his most reliable and loyal troops, activists say, in­cluding the republican guard and the feared 4th division, commanded by his brother, maher. armed checkpoints have sprung up across the city as part of the regime’s efforts to keep the rebels at bay. 
Thursday’s car bomb hit a checkpoint on a bustling thoroughfare in the central mazraa neighborhood be­tween the Baath party head­quarters and the russian embassy. The force of the ex­plosion shattered the balco­nies of apartment blocks along the tree-lined street and blew out the windows and doors of the party building. 
video of the blast site on syrian state Tv showed fire­fighters dousing a flaming car with hoses, while lifeless and dismembered bodies were tossed onto the grass of a near­by park. The state news agen­cy, sana, published photos showing a large crater in the middle of the rubble-strewn street and charred cars with blackened bodies inside. 
“it was huge. everything in the shop turned upside down,” one local resident said. he said three of his employees were in­jured by flying glass that killed a young girl who was walking by when the blast hit. 
“i pulled her inside the shop, but she was almost gone. we couldn’t save her. she was hit in the stomach and head,” he said, speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of retri­bution for talking to foreign media. 
ambulances rushed to the scene of the blast, which sent a huge cloud of black smoke bil­lowing into the sky. 
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack, but suspicion will likely fall upon one of the most ex­treme of syria’s myriad rebel factions, Jabhat al-nusra. 
The group, which the u.s. has designated to be a terrorist organization, has claimed past bombings on regime targets, including the double suicide blast outside an intelligence building in may that killed 55. 
such tactics have galvanized assad’s supporters and made many other syrians distrust­ful of the rebel movement as a whole, most of whose fighters do not use such tactics. 

Gun battle kills three 
Associated Press 

las vegas — Bullets were flying from a black range rover at a gray maserati as the vehicles raced toward a red light on the las vegas strip. 
Beneath the neon lights, police say, the maserati ran a red light at one of the strip’s busiest intersections and smashed into a taxi that exploded into flames early Thursday, killing the two people inside. 
Three more cars and a util­ity truck also collided at the crossroads home to Bellagio, caesars palace and Bally’s, injuring at least six more peo­ple as the range rover sped off in the pre-dawn darkness. 
The maserati driver was pronounced dead at a hospital. 
The dramatic scene that more than one tourist com­pared to something out of a violent action movie set off a frantic search for the oc­cupants of the range rover that continued into the night, and marked the latest violent episode on the strip since the beginning of the year. 
Two people were critically wounded in a shooting at a parking garage Feb. 6, and a tourist was stabbed saturday in an elevator at The hotel at mandalay Bay. 
clark county sheriff doug gillespie told reporters several hours after Thursday’s attack that it was sparked by an argument in the valet area of the nearby aria hotel-ca­sino, and that the violence at the intersection of las vegas Boulevard and Flamingo road did not reflect the val­ues of las vegas residents or visitors. 
“what happened will not be tolerated,” gillespie said. he promised the shooters would be “found and prosecuted to the full extent of the law.” 
on the strip — closed and snarling traffic throughout the day until reopening late Thursday night — the fiery rampage shocked tourists. 
“we get stabbings, and gang violence,” said mark Thompson, who was visiting from manchester, england, with his wife, “but this is like something out of a movie. like ‘die hard’ or something.” 
police said they were con­tacting authorities in three neighboring states about the range rover sport with dark tinted windows and distinc­tive black custom rims and plates that fled the scene about 4:20 a.m. it had a car dealer’s advertisement in place of a license plate. 
in southern california, the california highway patrol alerted officers in at least three counties to be on the lookout for the suv. 
paid adverTisemenT 




MEXICO 

Officials vow to search for missing persons 

Associated Press 
meXico ciTy — mexico said Thursday that it will work with the international red cross on the search for thousands of people who have disappeared during the country’s six-year­old war on drug cartels. 
officials provided few details of the arrangement signed in a public ceremony by the head of the international red cross and interior secretary miguel angel osorio chong. 
The red cross said in a state­ment that it would provide “studies, protocols and tech­nical assistance related to the search for the disappeared” but gave no specifics. red cross officials said they could not re­lease a copy of the agreement, and the interior department did not immediately respond to requests for a copy. 
The agreement was signed a day after human rights watch released a report that describes 249 cases of disappearances, most of which appeared to have been carried out by mexico’s military or law enforcement. 

also on wednesday, mexican officials said they had a prelimi­nary count of more than 27,000 people reported missing over the last six years, the majority of the cases blamed on drug car­tels or smaller gangs. 
interior subsecretary for human rights lia limon told mvs radio on Thursday that the government would work to collect dna from families of the disappeared, data that she called key to matching missing persons’ reports with the thou­sands of unidentified corpses found around mexico in recent years. 
she said the federal attorney general’s office had assembled a list of 27,523 missing people and the government is working to add to the sometimes sketchy information. she said the da­tabase would be constantly updated. 
a civic organization released a database late last year that it said contained official infor­mation on more than 20,000 people who had gone missing in mexico since former president Felipe calderon began his six-year term dec. 1, 2006, and launched a campaign against cartels. in posting the database on its website, propuesta civica, or civic proposal, said the in­formation was collected by the attorney general’s office. 
The missing in propuesta civica’s database include police officers, bricklayers, housewives, lawyers, stu­dents, businessmen and more than 1,200 children under age 
11. They are listed one by one with such details as name, age, gender and the date and place where the person disappeared. 
The human rights watch report said security personnel sometimes work with crimi­nals, detaining victims and handing them over to gangs. The report cites incidents in which investigators used in­formation collected in a case to pose as kidnappers and de­mand ransom payments from the victims’ families. 
authorities frequently fail to take even the most basic investi­gative steps, such as tracing vic­tims’ cellphone or bank records, and rely on investigations. 


paid adverTisemenT 

Courts approve same-sex adoptions 
Associated Press 
san Juan, puerto rico — puerto rico’s supreme court narrowly voted wednesday to uphold a law banning gay cou­ples from adopting children. 
The 5-4 vote came in the case of an unidentified wom­an who has sought for the last eight years to adopt a 12-year-old girl who her part­ner of more than 20 years had through in vitro fertilization. it was the first time that the court heard a case on same-sex adoptions. 
a majority of judges upheld the constitutionality of a law that states a person cannot adopt a single-parent child if the would-be adopter is of the same sex as the child’s mother or father without that parent losing their legal rights. 
The judges also said a fam­ily composed of a mother and father is best for a child’s dig­nity, stability and well-being. 
“The state ... has not crimi­nalized their sentimental relationship, but it does not have a constitutional obligation to award this relationship the same rights that other relationships have when it comes to adoption procedures,” the majority’s opinion said. 
The majority also found that so-called second-parent adop­tions, in which couples jointly adopt children, do not apply in puerto rico. That issue affects the case in question in part, the majority said, because the girl would have to be reg­istered with two mothers and the u.s. territory’s laws do not address such a situation. 
The judges said it is up to legislators to change adoption laws if they see fit. 
“starting today, the appli­cant should channel her ef­forts through the legislative assembly,” the majority wrote, noting that courts in nebraska, ohio, wisconsin and connecticut have struck down similar cases. 
caBe, an umbrella group that represents more than a dozen local human rights or­ganizations, said the opinion shows the legal and social vul­nerabilities of the island’s gay and lesbian community. 
“This opinion saddens us because we know that today they have emotionally de­stroyed a puerto rican fam­ily and left it without legal protections,” said spokesman osvaldo Burgos. 
chief Justice Federico hernandez denton dissented from the ruling, calling the law unconstitutional and saying the plaintiff’s law­yers proved the proposed adoption would benefit the child. The girl, he noted, “proudly states: ‘i have two mothers.’” 
“Both (women) have ideal emotional skills, intuition and protective instinct to guaran­tee the girl’s full and healthy development,” he wrote. “in addition, tests showed that (the girl) is mentally stable, does exceptionally well in school and gets along very well with children her age.” 
By not allowing a second parent adoption, the girl does not benefit from the woman’s medical insurance or a pos­sible will, and the petitioner would lose custody if the girl’s birth mother died or if the couple broke up, he said. 
hernandez began his opinion with a quote from president Barack obama’s in­augural address in January, in which he said that “our jour­ney is not complete until our gay brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law.” 
The chief justice criticized the judges who upheld the law, saying they interpreted puerto rico’s constitution in the con­text of the times in which it was adopted more than 60 years ago, “as if it were an an­cient manuscript encapsulat­ed in a crystal urn.” 
hernandez also noted that in 1976, puerto rico’s supreme court allowed a single woman to adopt the daughter of her ex-lover without him losing his biological rights. 
“while the rest of the world keeps opening its doors to the legitimate complaints of hu­man beings discriminated against for their sexual ori­entation, the majority of this court refuses to declare the law in question as unconstitu­tional,” he said. 


Two families 


Ann Marie Jakubowski 
news writer 

like all high school seniors this time of year, my younger brother has a seri­ous decision ahead of him. he’s decid­ing where to go to college and he’s split between accepting offers from notre dame and the university of michigan. 
in my house, this is a legitimately difficult decision, even though the right choice is obvious to all of us here in south Bend. in the spirit of total hon­esty, i’ll admit it — my family members are michigan fans, cheering for the michigan wolverines even before the irish. i like to think of myself as a suc­cess story in this regard, living proof that one can overcome such a dismal situation. i have been wheedling my sister and brothers to change their ways and join me, bombarding them with notre dame apparel for christmas and talking ad nauseam about how generally awesome this place is. 
But when my brother opened that welcome home letter a few months ago, i began to look at our school in a whole new light. we hear a lot of talk about our “notre dame family” and the ways it fosters a sense of com­munity and hospitality on campus, from Frosh-o weekend to the student section in the stadium. i had never thought, though, about what it would mean to share that adopted family with a biological family member. 
i love my family at home more than anything else. They provided me with love and support that formed me in­delibly during my 18 years living with them, and i have been lucky enough to find a similarly positive “family” in my past two years at notre dame. and i really, really hope my brother comes here. i hope he reads this even­tually, after accepting his offer and submitting the deposit, and a precious hallmark-esque “awww” moment en­sues. i haven’t had the legacy student experience at notre dame, with grand­parents who rubbed shoulders with knute rockne and parents who re­member when mod Quad was actually modern. i can’t imagine how much fun it would be to have a brother here and, sappy as it sounds, i’m thinking about what it would be like to turn onto notre dame avenue for the first time with him on move-in weekend and catch a glimpse of the dome (i’m blushing. But really). 
i love my home family, and i love my notre dame family, and for the first time, there exists the possibility that the two don’t have to be separated. i belong to two families, one i chose and one i didn’t. and here’s hoping that the baby bro helps me bring the two together. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 

if the notre dame men’s basketball team defeats cincinnati at purcell pavilion on sunday, it will mark the fourth straight season in which the irish have earned 10 wins in the Big east — a remarkable feat considering the conference has consistently stood atop college basketball during the past decade. 
it’s a shame so many students have failed to notice. 
irish coach mike Brey’s squad — which recently clinched its seventh consecutive 20-win season, the first time that feat has been accomplished in program history — has consistently competed among the con­ference’s elite during his 13 seasons at the helm. But with Brey set to accomplish a personal milestone — four consecutive ncaa tournament berths for the first time in his coaching career — the student body has been mostly apathetic. 
unless a marquee program like kentucky, syracuse or louisville is in town, the student section of purcell pavilion is mostly a ghost town. even the entice­ment of espn’s “college gameday” coming to cam­pus could not attract a large student crowd, and the network’s strategic camera angles could not hide the fact that the vast majority of seats were empty. The electric atmosphere of that evening’s five-overtime thriller against louisville carried little weight four days later when depaul and notre dame played an­other overtime. 
For a program that is consistently among the best in what is typically the nation’s best conference, the lack of support makes little sense. college basketball games are only two hours (with the exception of five-overtime tilts), which is the perfect amount of time for a midweek study break or a weekend activity. 
even the price is affordable. when members of the class of 2013 were freshmen, a student ticket book­let cost $100. This season, one could be purchased for $65. if you just attended the seven Big east games and the november matchup against kentucky and chose not to attend the other non-conference games, it only cost a sliver more than $8 per game — affordable for even a college student. 
sure, notre dame might not offer the best ticket policy and could offer some flexibility to students akin to other universities. many students want to see kentucky, syracuse or louisville, but they don’t want to pay for games against evansville and monmouth in the process. it’s not only the early non-conference at­tendance that suffers (that’s somewhat to be expected because of the lack of many marquee matchups), but also the student attendance against quality programs like villanova, georgetown and cincinnati — match-ups that students should want to see. 
selection sunday is three weeks from sunday, and the irish are on the brink of clinching yet another bid into the field of 68 teams. only two home games remain (cincinnati and march 5 against st. John’s), and Brey would no doubt welcome a gaggle of new­comers on the notre dame bandwagon as Jack cooley and scott martin, who’s currently sidelined with an injury, close out their irish careers. 
There’s no doubt notre dame’s a football school, but the quality teams Brey continues to develop are wor­thy of more of a showing from the student body. see if you can snag a last-minute ticket or find a friend with season tickets who might have lost interest. use it as a midterm study break or as some time you set aside to enjoy yourself for the week. 
But take the time to notice before the end of another entertaining season has passed. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The best ideas come as jokes. make your thinking as funny as possible.” 
David Ogilvy American advertising executive 




The oBserver | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
saturday night’s alright 
Joel Kolb 
The provocateur 

The date was saturday, Feb. 16. without a home game for men’s bas­ketball, the day in my mind was rel­egated to a mundane workday with little to look forward to — that is, of course, with the exception of burrito night at north dining hall. Besides complicating the debate about dining hall superiority, burrito night provides weary, winter-worn students with the motivation to work hard during the day. a fair amount of you know the punch line, as it were, to this story. it turned out, hopefully by some unthinkable oversight, but more likely because of Junior parents weekend, that there was no burrito night. The caveman in me wanted to rise up and rebel, but the French in me decided against that. why exactly did i feel so upset about such an (admittedly) small thing? Barring a physical addiction to burritos, the feel­ing i experienced was entitlement. 
in my mind, every saturday night is virtually declared as, “Burrito night in america” by Bob costas himself. what i was perceived as mine was now taken from me. 
honestly, i would venture to say the majority of us at notre dame have little to no experience with entitlements. so as not to get too carried away, my sense of entitlement towards saturday night burritos is small compared to 
UWIRE 
conventional entitlements — be it public union benefits, unemployment compensation, food stamps etc. what i need to learn, even if it takes some­thing small like a burrito, along with the rest of america, is the danger of entitlements. 
entitlements are, by definition, either something someone feels they have a right to, or something someone actu­ally has a right to. either definition suffices; however, the line between the two definitions is where entitlements become dangerous. “i have a right to do something” and “i feel i have a right to something” are different things. once our feeling to have a right becomes an actual right, it is almost impossible to turn back. in a person’s mind, there is now a permanent expectation and de­serving feeling towards that object, i.e. payment, benefit etc. simply put, once a person feels entitled to something, there is no turning back. 
i would now challenge most people to think of entitlement programs that have been reduced or cut by the fed­eral or state government. There are some examples, but they are few and far between. as of just last year, it was estimated that 62 percent of the an­nual federal budget went to entitlement programs. many of our country’s fiscal and budgetary problems stem from this fact. a laundry list of problems results from paying entitlements with the ma­jority of tax revenue. daily operations of the government are sacrificed due to lack of funds. states in particular are faced with the challenge of balancing a budget while a critical amount of their revenue goes to funding entitlement programs.  

Take wisconsin, for example. about two years ago, newly elected gov. scott walker was faced with a $3.6 billion budget deficit. in order to balance the budget, walker proposed to make various cuts in different areas of the budget, but the main money-saving decision came in asking teachers to pay for a modest amount more of their health benefits. walker simply asked public school teachers’ unions to pay for 5.8 percent of their pension costs and 12.6 percent of their healthcare costs. compared to the private sector, the teachers still had a top-tier health and retirement plan. however, because of nothing but a sheer sense of entitle­ment, the teachers made a preposterous amount of stink about these modest increases. The public teachers union was used to always receiving more and more from the state without thinking about where the money actually came from. when the wisconsin legislature met to pass the legislation in madison, protests broke out. protests are not in­herently bad things, but the protesters’ presence in madison had many impli­cations. For one, some of the people were not even wisconsinites — they had been bussed in from new york.  on top of that, teachers in the madison and milwaukee school districts took off time from teaching to join the protest in madison. at one point, state senators received death threats while walking into the capitol building to do their job. 
ask yourself, what was the cause of these months of mayhem and unrest in the wisconsin state capitol? The cause was entitlement. The teachers felt it was their right to have these ben­efits. The power of entitlement caused people to be beside themselves. The power of entitlement resulted in the recall (however unsuccessful) of a gov­ernor who had done nothing remotely criminal. 
There are a lot of tough choices that need to be made in the near future. if a politician seems hesitant to make a tough change, it is because they are well versed in the power of entitle­ments. it is virtually political death to try to make major cuts to today’s entitlements. The uproar in wisconsin and political hesitation merely speak to the power of entitlement. 
with any luck, this saturday night we’ll all be treated to another burrito. if eaten in the perspective of this column, burrito night can provide not only food, but food for thought. 
Joel Kolb lives in St. Edward’s Hall and is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. He can be reached at jkolb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Netflix show captures political drama 
Rianna Folds 
The hoya 

netflix has done it again. First, it contributed to Blockbuster’s bankruptcy with on-demand dvds and online streaming. now, netflix is gunning for network and cable television with its first original series, “house of cards.” The online structure frees netflix from the formatting and content constraints of regular television. This should worry channels like nBc and hBo, whose dvd sales are already abysmal thanks to streaming sites like netflix. 
This freedom has allowed netflix to create a rich, addictive show with an a-list cast. kevin spacey stars as Frank underwood, a member of the house of representatives out for revenge after he gets passed over for secretary of state. robin wright is consummate politician’s wife claire underwood: a cold, calculating lady macbeth. she is the perfect complement to Frank’s cunning, chess-like strategy to get back on his lack of promotion. kate mara is Zoe Barnes, a typical overeager (and somewhat annoying) rookie reporter. 
critically acclaimed director david Fincher helms the first two episodes, and his stark cinematography adds quiet gravity to every shady deal and glamorous gala. 
Frank’s startling asides are equally compelling. The series premiere opens with underwood directly addressing the audience as he twists the neck of a canine hit-and-run victim. he continues to do so throughout the show, usually with an eye roll and a snide comment about the person he’s trying to schmooze. The most powerful of these moments comes when underwood delivers a eulogy at the fu­neral of a teenager from his south carolina district. he recounts the profound experience of his father’s death, turns to the camera and, in the same breath, remarks that his father did nothing but take up space. 
instances like these are the genius of “house of cards.” viewers become complicit in underwood’s underhanded dealings and invested in his plans as we gain further access to his thoughts. This tactic is borrowed from the identically titled BBc miniseries that aired in the nineties, which was adapted from a novel by michael dobbs, who is currently an executive producer. 
writer Beau willimon, who gained prior experience writing the political thriller The ides of march, up­dates the show to reflect the current political climate. claire underwood runs the clean water initiative, a charity that she wants to expand on an international scale. as ruthless as her husband, claire fires half of her staff in order to hire one person with access to resources she desperately wants. 
“house of cards” certainly has credentials, but it re­mains to be seen whether audiences will actually buy into this new television format. viewers may not be willing to purchase netflix subscriptions simply for its own original series, but this show is definitely worth watching for current subscribers. netflix caters to fans of binge watching by placing all thirteen season one episodes online at the same time. This could be the beginning of a new era of television, and “house of cards” is an ambitious start (hulu’s original series don’t count. let’s be real. no one watches those.) 
This column originally ran in the Feb. 10 edition of The Hoya, serving Georgetown University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
The scene writers voted on the films they think will win during sunday’s oscars as well as the films they think should win but probably won’t.  
STAFF OSCARS PICKS do you agree with their picks?  

BEST PICTURE: 
Will likely win: “Argo” 

“argo” is considered the frontrunner of the category after its numerous award wins, not to mention it is an extremely entertaining and well-executed movie. unless you think the academy wants to go for yet another bi­opic like “lincoln” to take the win (which is certainly a strong possibility), then this film is probably your best bet. 
BEST ACTOR: 

Will likely win: Daniel Day-Lewis 
— “Lincoln” 

while no man has ever won an oscar for portraying a president, this guy knocked it out of the park. daniel day-lewis took on the role of the most renowned and beloved president in history: a man who both abolished slavery. sure, he’s won two oscars already, but the guy crafted his own unique lincoln that was historically accurate rather than traditional. he is “the” daniel day-lewis, so cower in fear, other nominees. 
Should win: Joaquin Phoenix — “The Master” 
it’s unfortunate that daniel day-lewis and Joaquin phoenix made such incred­ible movies in the same year. daniel day­lewis is an undeniably incredible actor, and may take the oscar, but phoenix’s commitment to his role in this movie was amazing. we had chills throughout the entire movie because of the intensity phoenix brought to the screen. 
BEST ADAPTED SCREENPLAY: 

Will likely win/should win: “Lincoln” 
The fast-paced dialogue and lengthy monologues in “lincoln” should earn the film the oscar for best adapted screen­play. Tony kushner’s storyline relies upon more than a decade’s worth of historical research, and daniel day-lewis brings to life one of america’s greatest orators. 
Should win: “Zero Dark Thirty” 
like the “social network,” “Zero dark Thirty” is a film that defines a major part of our generation. it’s controversial and criticized for its alleged inaccuracies, but the film’s intensity, acting and heart-pounding storyline from start to finish make this, in our opinion, the best film of the year. 

BEST ANIMATED FEATURE: 
Will likely win: “Wreck-It Ralph” 
it won the annie award for best picture, and while that’s not a guaranteed vic­tory at the oscars (“kung Fu panda” beat oscar winner “wall-e” for that award) it certainly helps. one can certainly argue it’s not the best film of the category, but it’s still a great, funny and charming movie that has the passionate supporters and awards to guide it to the oscar win. 

Should win: “Frankenweenie” 
it’s a love letter to classic horror/mon­ster genre and seems to be one of Tim Burton’s favorite pet projects. Burton has never won an oscar before and this hu­morous, dark and heartfelt animated film could finally be what earns him his time of recognition. To put it simply, it’s a great film with a great director who’s due for a win. 

Will likely win: Steven Spielberg 
— “Lincoln” 

it’s not just because everyone loves spielberg (even though his film “war horse” didn’t win a single oscar last year), but more so because he recreated a crucial part of american history — filled with speeches and political debates — in a movie both ac­curate and enjoyable (for a biopic). 
BEST ACTRESS: 
Will  likely  win/should  win  :  
Jennifer  Lawrence  —  “Silver  
Linings Playbook”  

she delivered a multi-layered, witty and emotionally powerful performance that would have fell flat with most other actresses. her role has earned her both a screen actors guild award and a golden globe. it’s going to be a tough race com­peting against the outstanding Jessica chastain, but if she can beat robert de niro in a screaming match, lawrence can take down anyone. 
BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR: 
Will likely win/should win: Robert de Niro — “Silver Linings Playbook” 
in a category comprised entirely of past oscar winners who all gave great perfor­mances, it’s really anyone’s game. But de niro delivered a heaping dose of both charm and raw emotion to his role. not only has he not won an oscar in 32 years, but he also hasn’t even been nominated in 21 years. he’s overdue and deserves this year’s oscar. 
Should win: Ang Lee — “Life of Pi” 
while it’s not considered a frontrunner for best picture, you can’t ignore the fact that ang lee made a supposedly  “unfilm­able” movie into an oscar-worthy film. it also helps his chances that Ben affleck (“argo”) and kathryn Bigelow (“Zero dark Thirty”) weren’t even nominated in this category. 

BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS: 
Will likely win/should win: Anne Hathaway — “Les Miserables” 
if you haven’t heard it a thousand times already, anne hathaway rocked this 20-minute role like a champ. let’s just give her the oscar already. 

BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 



The oBserver | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By WILLIAM NEAL 
scene writer 

This year, we’ve seen arguably one of the best lineups of best picture nominees in a long time. 
Between the films “amour,” “argo,” “Beasts of the southern wild,” “django unchained,” “life of pi,” “lincoln,” “silver linings playbook” and “Zero dark Thirty,” there’s plenty for academy members and fans alike to discuss for the oscars this year. But while there are of­ten one or two clear frontrunners in the category, the race for best picture this year is really turning some heads. 
in a surprising turn of events, after Ben affleck was snubbed from the best director category — an award that of­ten determines the best picture win­ner — for “argo,” his film has gone on to dominate the award season. so far, “argo” has brought in key awards from the director’s guild of america (best 
By LAUREN MATICH 
scene writer 

as notre dame students, we love cere­mony, tradition and gold statues; just look to the dome for evidence. we love huddling around television stations in too-small dorm rooms to watch nationally-televised competitions, holding our breath until a winner is proclaimed. during the first few months of spring semester, when we all are at the peak of football season withdrawal, the time until we all take up football watching as a quasi-professional sport again can seem centuries away. 
This sunday, a different kind of cere­mony and tradition will be playing out on the television sets around campus, and a different sort of gold-gilded figure named oscar will make an appearance.  dust off your television, initiate the Facebook event invitation chain and anticipate that being up much later than you want to be director), producers guild awards (best picture), writers guild awards (best adapted screenplay), British academy Film awards (best film/director) and screen actors guild awards (most out­standing cast), all after the oscar snub in best director. it seems in the eyes of the public, “argo” has pushed itself to be the frontrunner of the top award in the mov­ie industry. so where do the other films stand in comparison? 
all of the films nominated offer some­thing unique. Films from such a wide variety of genres broke into this category 
— everything from spaghetti westerns and musicals to stories of war, romance, poverty, fantasy and history. everyone has their favorite genre, but when that time comes to fill out their oscar ballot people often do not vote with their favor­ite.  instead, people often base their vote on the mass public and critical opinion. competition runs high and even people begin to look at films they once looked 
because pinterest is making oscar watch parties more of a reality than ever. 
according to los angeles stylist and huffington post consultant Tabitha evans, a great oscars party doesn’t need to cost a fortune or go “all out.” For a put-together shindig, focus on one element that is important to your vision. if you’re going for a super-glam feeling, convince your guests to break out the old prom dresses that only get used once a semes­ter. complete the glam feeling by toast­ing like stars with sparkling juice. 
if food is an important element of how you want to celebrate awards season, oscars.org has great recipes inspired by what foods are actually served by the academy this year. huffingtonpost.com suggests coordinating dishes with your projected best picture winner.  one ex­ample was shepherd’s “pi.” some of them are pretty ambitious for a dorm kitchen, but throwing a smashing party is about at with awe in a much more critical light. many critics will argue that while “life of pi” is a true achievement in filmmaking and a stunning piece of cinematography, the film doesn’t convey its religious mes­sage until it is shoved down your throat in the end. harsh, critics. 

critics argue that the suffocating camera work, several less than impres­sive performances and the ambiguous theme in “les misérables” put it out of the race. “django uncahined” and “Zero dark Thirty” (my personal favorites) are two excellent films, yet the movies’ controversial themes of slavery and tor­ture (respectively) will overshadow their chances of winning. as for “amour” and “Beasts of the southern wild,” i believe the two films are just not getting the at­tention, press and support that they need to win. The unfortunate fact is that the oscars are highly political awards, and the films that receive the best press coverage often jump to the top of the 
creatively improvising with what’s avail­able to you. 
To some party hosts, atmosphere is everything. oscar-themed decorations are heavy on the star-studded glitz and glimmer, so start a hunt for stray strands of twinkle lights. use gold star shapes and glitter as a theme for your decora­tions — the perfect opportunity to pull out your gold football season accessories again. 
if your party is focused on the high-stakes races, start the night off by showing the trailers of the best picture nominees. as the night progresses, of­fer guests categorical ballots to cast their votes and bingo cards to keep the tempo of the party moving along during the long night. Both the ballots and bingo cards are available to print for free at oscars.org. 
For a more casual and informal get-to­gether, an orville redenbacher-themed category. 
so while i would love to say that all of these films have their fair shot of win­ning, critics will point out two front-runners come this sunday: “argo” and “lincoln.” like many past best picture frontrunners, these two movies follow stories based on true events in com­pletely different styles. most people who have seen the two films will tell you that “lincoln,” while a highly respectable film, falls flat in keeping the audience’s attention — especially in comparison to “argo.” Then again, as the result of the 2011 battle between “The king’s speech” and “The social network,” showed us, the academy is a sucker for a good bi­opic, meaning “lincoln” would be the likely winner between the two. But until sunday rolls around and that final title is called, it’s all fair game. 
Contact William Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
menu might be the ticket. There isn’t a food that symbolizes american cinema more than popcorn. The blog some­thingswanky.com features a post with 40 different recipes that involve differ­ent popcorn goodie concoctions includ­ing snickers popcorn, cinnamon bun popcorn, peanut butter popcorn balls and fudge mint popcorn made with Thin mints. other foods that are sure to get guests in the cinematic mood are hot dogs, nachos and any assortment of candy-wall candy. 
The themes and details that can con­tribute to a great oscars party are as varied as the films and actors being recognized. however you decide to cel­ebrate the awards show, don’t forget to tune in sunday  at 7 p.m. to see who takes home the gold. 
Contact Lauren Matich at lmatich@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Exclusion sullies sports’ shine 

Andrew Gastelum 
associate sports editor 
“in today’s society, being different makes you brave.  To overcome your fears, you must be strong and have faith in your purpose.” 
heartrending. inspiring. moving. 
if i told you it flows from the mind of a great orator of days passed, maybe a gandhi or a churchill or a lincoln, you would have no doubts. 
But it came from a podium of american sports, where role models are molded whether they agree to it or not. so, you might say it had to be vince lombardi or Jackie robinson who said it. 
in fact, it came from a plain, bare-bones blog post last Friday. its author is not a household name because of his athletic prowess. instead, he is a house­hold name because of his lifestyle. 
The author is american soccer player robbie rogers and last week he announced that he is gay. Then, the budding star re­tired at age 25. 
now, knowing that, read that quote at the top of the page again. how much did your opin­ion of it change? The real ques­tion is why did it change at all? 
in theory, sports are one of the few things that don’t care who you are, but rather what you can do. if you are faster, there is a time to prove it. if you jump higher, there is a mark to prove it. if you score more points, you win. 
so why won’t the world of professional sports let “gay” and “superstar” athlete work together? 
Thirty-five years ago, glenn Burke became known as the first openly gay baseball player. los angeles dodgers manager Jim gilliam considered Burke “the next willie mays,” and yet the social pressures and his blatant mistreatment forced him to quit his dreams of playing the game he loved. 
Thirty-five years later, rogers did just the same Feb. 15. he said he quit the game he loved when living with a constant fear that his secret would get in the way of his dreams. 
it would be living every day without being you. it would be like trying to breathe without enough air to take in. it would be something no one would wish on anyone. 
and the world of sports hasn’t allowed for much room to budge. 
san Francisco 49ers corner­back chris culliver said dur­ing super Bowl week that he wouldn’t welcome a gay team­mate, saying gay football players should come out “10 years” after leaving a football locker room. 
Just last december, the sup­porter’s group of one of russia’s top soccer teams, Zenit st. petersburg, openly asked the club to exclude gay players, stat­ing they were “unworthy of our great city.” 
what is this world of sports we live in? my love for sports stems from their ability to offer escapes from any of the harsh realities of the world. For the 90 minutes of a soccer match or the four quarters of a basketball game, the only thing i ever wor­ried about was the score. not homework, not drama, not big ol’ scary life. it was beautiful, it was my escape. 
it was rogers’ escape too, for much different reasons. But now that escape is gone, and we let it come to that. 
not to say there isn’t already support for gay athletes, from athletic directors to current play­ers to charles Barkley. Former teammates and soccer fans gave rogers widespread support. 
But in the pantheon of mod-ern-day american sports like basketball, football, hockey and baseball, there has yet to be an openly gay male athlete. 
There was former nBa player John amaechi, who came out in his book after retiring. There are plenty of women who have received support after coming out and continuing playing. But for male athletes and the sup­posed machismo that comes with sports, there has been no such case. it appears the support may be there, but the pressure is still too much, both socially and psychologically. 
That should never be the case in sports. sports accept people from all backgrounds, colors, creeds and lifestyles. why should an athlete’s lifelong dream be derailed because of how he lives, and who are we to make that decision? 
This is not a call advocating gay rights. nor is it one advo­cating against them. it is but a genuine evaluation of the world of sports we live in. one that i thought was open for whoever wanted to play, and one that has blindsided me with its sense of exclusion. 
growing up, when i saw a kid watching my friends and i shoot hoops on the playground, i asked him if he wanted to play. i did not care what he looked like. i did not care what religion he stood by. i did not care how he lived his life. 
i just cared to see if he wanted to play ball. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
GOLF 

woods and mcilroy fall in first round of match play 
Associated Press 
The snow is gone from the match play championship, and so are rory mcilroy and Tiger woods. 

in a stunning conclusion to what already is a bizarre week on dove mountain, shane lowry of ireland made a 4-foot par putt on the 18th hole to eliminate rory mcilroy in the opening round Thursday of golf’s most un­predictable tournament. 
moments later, charles howell iii finished off a fabu­lous round in cold conditions by defeating woods on the 17th hole. howell, who had not faced woods in match play since losing to him in the third round of the 1996 
u.s. amateur, played bogey-free on a course that still had patches of snow and ice after being cleared Thursday morning. 
The match was all square when howell hit a wedge that stopped inches from the cup on the 15th hole for a conceded birdie. Then, he holed a 25-foot birdie putt on the 16th and went 2 up when woods badly missed a 12­foot birdie putt. 
The final matches were played in near darkness, and they could have stopped af­ter 15 holes. woods wanted to play on, even though howell had the momentum. woods was 2 under for the day, and neither of them made a bogey. 
“we both played well,” woods said. “he made a couple of more birdies than i did. he played well, and he’s advancing.” 
mcilroy, the no. 1 player in the world, built a 2-up lead early in the match until lowry rallied and grabbed the moment by chipping in for birdie on the par-3 12th and then ripping a fairway metal to within a few feet for a conceded eagle on the 13th. 
lowry missed a short par putt on the 14th, only for mcilroy to give away the next 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 

hole with a tee shot into the desert and a bunker shot that flew over the 15th green and into a cactus. But the two-time major champion hung tough, coming up with a clutch birdie on the 16th to stay in the game. 
mcilroy nearly holed his bunker on the 18th, and lowry followed with a steady shot out to 4 feet and calmly sank the putt. 
“deep down, i knew i could beat him,” lowry said. “There’s a reason i’m here, and this is match play.” 
For mcilroy, more ques­tions are sure to follow him to Florida for his road to the masters. he now has played only 54 holes in the first two months of the season, miss­ing the cut in abu dhabi and losing in the first round at dove mountain. 
“you want to try and get as far as you can, but i guess that’s match play,” mcilroy said. “i probably would have lost by more if i had played someone else in the field. it wasn’t a great quality match. But it would have been nice to get through and just get another day here and anoth­er competitive round under my belt.” 
Just like that, the match play championship lost its two biggest stars in one day. 
The only other time the top two seeds lost in the open­ing round was in 2002, when woods and phil mickelson lost at la costa. 
luke donald nearly made it the top three seeds except for a clutch performance. he holed a 10-foot birdie putt to halve the 17th hole and stay tied with marcel siem of germany. donald then bird­ied the 18th from 7 feet to win the match. 
louis oosthuizen, the no. 4 seed, rallied to get past richie ramsay of scotland. 
The opening round was halted wednesday after 3 1/2 hours because of a freak snowstorm that covered dove mountain with nearly 2 inches. it continued to snow at times overnight, and it took nearly five hours to clear snow from the golf course for the tournament to resume. 
Turns out snow wasn’t the only surprise. 
howell said he has never beaten woods — not as an amateur, not even in dozens of games at isleworth be­fore woods moved away to south Florida. what a time to change that losing streak. 
“i had to play extremely well to have a chance, and i still kept waiting for that Tiger moment,” howell said. 
it never came. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“We’re going to turn this team around Norman Einstein.” - Joe Theismann 360 degrees.” -Jason Kidd 
“These are my new shoes. They’re “They don’t think it be like it is, but it good shoes. They won’t make you rich do.” - Oscar Gamble like me, they won’t make you rebound like me, they definitely won’t make you 
“When you’re rich, you don’t write handsome like me. They’ll only make checks. Straight cash, homey.” you have shoes like me. That’s it.” -Randy Moss -Charles Barkley 
Nobody in football should be called “Baseball is 90 percent mental and a genius. A genius is someone like the other half is physical.” -Yogi Berra 


NFL 

League addresses HGH testing changes 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — nFl se­nior vice president adolpho Birch said Thursday the league and players associa­tion need to reach agreement soon on hgh testing. 
The nFl and the union agreed in principle to hgh testing when a new 10-year labor agreement was final­ized in august 2011. But pro­tocols must be approved by both sides and the players have questioned the science in the testing procedures, delaying implementation. 
“The longer we continue to stall out on this issue or we don’t have an effective regi­ment in place, it’s a disser­vice to all of us,” Birch said at the nFl’s scouting combine. “we need resolution. This is enough. we’ve been talking about this for two years.” 
in 2011, the nFl became the first professional league to agree with its players on hgh testing. But while the sides debated the scientific validity of the test, and the union still is not satisfied with the process. 
meanwhile, major league Baseball will test for hgh throughout the upcoming regular season. last year, players were subject to blood testing for hgh during spring training. 

on Tuesday, the union said in a conference call it favors hgh testing, but only with a strong appeal process. 
“we’ve had kind of a long history in our union and the league’s relationship and that’s deteriorated the trust between the two, and the players don’t feel comfort­able moving forward and i don’t feel comfortable mov­ing forward without the proper protections in place,” nFlpa president domonique Foxworth said. “as far as i understand, there’s no good reason not to have those pro­tections in place, so that’s kind of the hold up as far as hgh is concerned.” 
“hgh testing that doesn’t give our players the oppor­tunity to appeal, that’s just a nonstarter.” 
Birch noted the union has asked for appeals to be han­dled by a neutral, third party, and that the league has pro­posed third-party arbitration since 2009. in mlB, positive tests and resulting discipline can be challenged by the union before an arbitrator. 
mlB and its players’ union agreed before the 2012 sea­son to start releasing the identity of substances caus­ing a player’s positive test. Birch was asked whether use of the drug adderall is a trend in the nFl or an excuse used by players who tested positive for performance enhancers. 
“That is one of the features we have proposed is to re­lease the substance that was tested for so there is no abili­ty to go behind and minimal­ize what the violation was,” Birch said. “i think it also helps other players realize what substances cause this. 
“But the union has consis­tently rejected that, so that’s another feature they said they’d take today from major league Baseball and that they’ve rejected today.” 
union spokesman george atallah disputes Birch’s claim. 
“it’s part of our collective bargaining agreement to keep everything confiden­tial,” atallah said. “part of the reason why it’s kept con­fidential is if a player needs some sort of treatment, he can get treatment without public pressure.” 
paid adverTisemenT 


NCAA BASKETBALL 

cincinnati falls to uconn in overtime 

Associated Press 
harTFord, conn.  — shabazz napier put connecticut on his back again, helping the huskies to their fourth overtime win this season. 
napier scored 11 of his 27 points in extra time Thursday as uconn (18-7, 8-5 Big east) beat cincinnati 73-66. 
deandre daniels added 17 points and tied a career high with four blocked shots for the huskies (18-7, 8-5 Big east), who are now 4-1 in overtime games. 
napier has scored 46 points in those overtimes, hitting nine of his 14 shots, and going 8 for 12 from 3-point range. 
“i try to be the best leader for this team, and guys look for me to make shots,” he said. “all i’ve got to do is see the ball go in the hoop one time, and i feel like i’m going to make the next one.” 
The teams were tied a 55 go­ing into overtime before napier hit two 3-pointers as part of a 6-2 uconn run. a layup by kilpatrick made it 63-60, before napier bur­ied a third with a minute left. 
Jermaine sanders’ layup cut the lead to four with 43 seconds left and the Bearcats began to foul. uconn made seven of eight free throws down the stretch. 
ryan Boatright and daniels each hit a pair and omar calhoun made one of two, before napier sealed it with a pair. 
“we’ve got a lot of great players in our league, but he’s right there,” said uconn coach kevin ollie. “if people aren’t considering (napier) for Big east player of the year, i don’t know what they are doing.” 
sean kilpatrick had 13 of his 18 points after halftime and JaQuon parker added 14 for cincinnati (19-8, 7-7), which lost for the fourth time in five games. 
Titus rubles and Justin Jackson each fouled out in overtime for cincinnati. 
a 10-2 run, sparked by a 3-point­er by kilpatrick, gave the Bearcats a 53-47 lead with just over 4 min­utes to play in regulation. 
But the huskies scored the next six. a free throw by napier tied the game at 53 with 1:30 left. rubles hit a put-back to give the Bearcats back the lead, and napier tied it again on an off-balance driving layup with 40 seconds left. 
wright turned the ball over in the backcourt setting up the final shot, but napier missed a contest­ed layup, sending the game into overtime tied at 55. 
“we’ve got to learn how to play with the lead down the stretch, especially with veteran guys who are capable of beating their man,” said cincinnati coach mick cronin. “all of our losses are the same. it’s groundhog day.” 
uconn was 10 of 19 from 3-point range, and napier hit six of his nine shots from behind the arc. 
The huskies made six 3-point­ers in the first half, as it built a 37-34 halftime lead. cincinnati, meanwhile found its success in­side, with 34 points in the paint. The Bearcats outrebounded uconn 44-28 and had 17 offensive boards. 
uconn had given up 20 offen­sive rebounds in each of the last two games, leading to a combined 36 second-chance points. The Bearcats had 17 on Thursday. 
a rubles foul shot cut uconn’s lead to 43-41 with 17:23 left in the game and it stayed that score for the next 7 minutes, until rubles banked in a long 2-point jump shot to tie it. 
uconn missed seven straight shots and was held without a field goal for almost 9 minutes before a Tyler olander dunk gave them a 45-43 lead. The huskies had just three baskets in the first 13 min­utes of the second half. 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

NBA 

deadline passes without any blockbuster deals 
Associated Press 
new york  — The only trade involving dwight howard came last summer. The potent scorers that moved did so long ago. 
There was no eye-catch­ing activity left for deadline day, resulting in minor deals Thursday to the disappoint­ment of those hoping for a frenzy. 
Josh smith stayed put and the Boston celtics’ core stayed to­gether, leaving J.J. redick, dealt to milwaukee, as the biggest name to be traded. 
There were nine moves, noth­ing approaching a blockbuster and none to jump-start the lakers. 
players such as James harden and rudy gay were traded far before the deadline, but with teams perhaps fearful of new penalties for the biggest spend­ers, Thursday was mostly quiet. 
“i don’t think i’ve seen fewer trade deadline deals, ever,” said houston general manager daryl morey, who completed two trades wednesday. “But i think it’s a one-year blip.” 
The atlanta hawks held onto smith, and utah kept both paul millsap and al Jefferson on a day when much attention was focused on both situations, since those players have value and could leave their teams this summer as free agents. 
The long-shot deals never ma­terialized. howard remained in los angeles, just what lakers general manager mitch kupchak repeatedly said would happen. howard’s unhappiness and struggles since he was ac­quired from orlando last sum­mer fueled speculation that the lakers might move him before possibly losing him for nothing as a free agent. 
“it took a while for league to understand our position was exactly what we stated,” kupchak told reporters. “i think they finally got it.” 
kevin garnett and paul pierce will continue wearing celtic green, as will rajon rondo when he’s healthy enough to put on a uniform again. 
The celtics did make one deal, acquiring guard Jordan crawford from the washington wizards for center Jason collins and injured guard leandro Barbosa. 
Those were the types of trades that were left after the big names that were available had already been moved. oklahoma city sent all-star harden to houston the preseason, fearing it couldn’t pay what last season’s top sixth man would want after already giving lucrative long­term deals to kevin durant and russell westbrook. 
The memphis grizzlies broke up their frontcourt when they sent gay to Toronto in a three-team deal with detroit. 
“i think normally a point was made, normally you would see big deals being made. we can­not forget, andre iguodala, that deal was made in the summer. That could have potentially been a trade deadline move,” said denver nuggets president masai ujiri, referring to the player he acquired in the four-time howard trade in august. 
“harden was traded right be­fore the season started. That could have been a potential trade deadline move. rudy gay was started a couple weeks ago. There was some cleanup before this date. apart from a couple guys who were out there all the time in terms of big names, it just went by. i can’t explain it.” 
Finances certainly played into it. The collective bargaining agreement that went into effect in 2011 came with much more punitive penalties for teams that repeatedly exceed the lux­ury tax and limits the options of those over the salary cap, and decisions Thursday were made with that in mind. 
golden state sent forward Jeremy Tyler to atlanta and guard charles Jenkins to philadelphia in separate deals, slicing more than $1.5 million off its payroll after beginning the day about $1.2 million over the league’s $70,307,000 luxury tax. 
rebuilding after trading howard, the magic decided redick wasn’t in their plans while averaging career highs in points (15.1) and field goal per­centage (45.0). 

paid adverTisemenT 




NFL 

rolston drops first game as sabres coach 
Associated Press 
ToronTo — James van riemsdyk kept the Buffalo sabres reeling on Thursday night. 
van riemsdyk scored twice to power the Toronto maple leafs past the Buffalo sabres 3-1 in ron rolston’s first game as an nhl head coach. 
rolston, who until wednesday was the head coach of the ahl’s rochester americans, was hired as the sabres interim coach follow­ing the club’s decision to fire lindy ruff. ruff, who also played 10 seasons for Buffalo, had been behind the club’s bench since 1997 and was the nhl’s longest-tenured head coach. 
prior to arriving in rochester, rolston spent seven seasons as a head coach with usa hockey’s national program, leading the under-18 squad to three gold medals and a silver in four world championship appearances. 
van riemsdyk played for rolston for two years, earn­ing a world championship gold medal in 2006 before getting silver the following year. 
“he’s a big reason for the success i’ve been able to have as a hockey player,” van riemsdyk said. “he really kind of instilled that confi­dence and trust that he had in me as a player and he put me out there in pretty much every situation in every game and allowed me to grow. 
“There was obviously some growing pains my first year, but the second year i was able to blossom under his tu­telage and i feel thankful for everything he taught me.” 
But rolston could only watch as the sabres dropped their third straight and fifth of their past six games. 
“i thought we played well in parts of the game,” rolston said. “i didn’t like our second period, obviously it was the turning point. 
“we had too many turn­overs, we were forcing things, long shifts in the defensive zone. it was the difference.” 
Toronto erased a 1-0, first-period deficit with two goals in the second. 
“The second period wasn’t good enough,” said sabres goalie ryan miller, who turned aside 33 shots. “we stopped doing some things we did early in the game and it caught up with us.” 
van riemsdyk’s power-play goal at 14:28 of the third — his team-leading 11th — gave Toronto breathing room af­ter miller stopped him with a glove save earlier on the power play. 
maple leafs coach randy carlyle said van riemsdyk’s work away from the puck was a big reason for his success. 
“he probably skated as strong in this hockey game as any game he has this year,” carlyle said. “it’s good to see him move his feet and be rewarded. 
“i think if he continues to skate and move his feet the way he did tonight, i don’t think he shouldn’t continue to score if he’s going to stay around the net and go into those tough areas. 
“he’s going to continue to play with our top-six group­ing of forwards and he’s going to maintain power play time, all of those things should indicate he can continue to make contributions. it’s all up to him.” 
dion phaneuf also scored for Toronto, which won its third straight home game. Ben scrivens stopped 31 shots for his third win in five starts since James reimer’s knee in­jury Feb. 11. 
Tyler ennis scored for Buffalo. 
Buffalo outshot Toronto 13­10 in the first period and also had the period’s lone goal. ennis scored his sixth of the season with high wrist shot to scrivens’ blocker side at 13:20. 


Both goaltenders were sharp as miller made a qual­ity save on Toronto’s leo komarov while scrivens twice denied Thomas vanek with a nice split-pad save. 
“you just try to get on a roll and stop as many pucks as possible,” scrivens said of his stop on vanek. “obviously i was fortunate he wasn’t able to get the rebound up on me, but i gave myself an opportu­nity to make the save. 
“maybe a little bit of both 
paid adverTisemenT 


hard work by me and unfor­tunate luck on his part.” 
phaneuf’s one-timer with four seconds remaining on a power play at 1:15 of the second tied it. The goal was the 100th of phaneuf’s nhl career. 
Buffalo’s steve ott put a backhand past scrivens at 7:08, but it was disallowed because of a goalie interfer­ence penalty on kevin porter. 
van riemsdyk put Toronto ahead 2-1 at 18:04, convert­ing a nifty 2-on-1 break with phil kessel as the leafs out-shot Buffalo 15-6. 
“we didn’t start very well. ... we got our skating game going in the second,” carlyle said. “and once we can get on that forecheck and con­tinue to throw that puck in and come at teams in waves, we can be an effective team grinding teams down.” 
“That’s what we felt the case was tonight because we didn’t skate very well and were fortunate to get out of the first period with the score what it was.” 
notes: nBa slam dunk champion Terrence ross of the Toronto raptors took in the game. ... Toronto wore its third sweater for the fourth of eight games this season. ... Toronto entered the game leading the nhl in hits (476) and fighting majors (20). ... The sabres and leafs will meet once more this sea­son, march 21 in Buffalo. ... rolston has been rochester’s head coach since the 2011-‘12 season, having compiled a 63-44-17 record. 



The oBserver | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
FENCING 

notre dame prepares for home advantage 

conference championships follow the notre dame duals and are only a piece of the larger puzzle for the irish, who aim to win a men’s and women’s national champion­ship. if notre dame makes the national championship round, it will compete in san antonio, Texas, for a fourth 
national  championship  
under  irish  coach  Janusz  
Bednarski.  

“This is a good tournament to practice and get our feet under us before the ncaa qualifiers,” Zeiss said. 
since the beginning of the season, Zeiss said the team has grown in many dimensions. 
“i definitely think the en­tire team has improved,” Zeiss said. “The new epee coach has really improved a lot and some times they have been really carrying the team and i think they will continue to do great for us in the upcoming matches. 
“we have all been training hard and as a team have im­proved … By ncaas we will be peaking, i think and ready to compete for the national championship.” 
The notre dame duals will take place all day saturday in in the Joyce center. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
a good measuring stick for both the no. 2 men’s and no. 1 women’s sides. 
“i definitely think northwestern will be the most solid competition and wayne state is also a very good team for the women’s foil,” Zeiss said. “air Force is particularly strong on the men’s side, as well.” 
cleveland state, detroit and lawrence college will also compete. The no. 8 wildcats women’s team will present one of the biggest challenges for notre dame during the meet. 
Zeiss said competing in the Joyce center provides the irish with a sense of famil­iarity. But she also said notre dame focuses well when competing away from home. 
“knowing the gym and knowing the set up and ev­erything will definitely be nice,” Zeiss said. “when we travel and when we get on the bus we attain a great sense of focus and we need to be care­ful to have that same focus here on campus and i think we will do it.” 
The midwestern 


By BRENDAN BELL 
sports writer 
with the regular season coming to a close, the irish will compete in their final 
McGraw 
conTinued From page 24 
and 10 rebounds to record her Big east-leading 14th double-double of the season. 
mcgraw said diggins, achonwa and the rest of the irish will need to commit extra atten­tion to depaul shooters in tran­sition. But she said the offensive side will be business as usual. 
“defensively, i think we need to worry about transition defense and finding them on the 3-point line,” mcgraw said. “offensively, i think we’re just looking to dis­play our own game.” 
notre dame plays depaul at 
3:30 p.m. sunday at the mcgrath­phillips arena in chicago. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
GAME OF THE WEEK 
dual meet of the season at the notre dame duals on saturday. sophomore wom­en’s foil madison Zeiss said the challenges the irish will face this weekend provide 



Fisher tops knights in finals 
Special to The Observer 
Fisher won the men’s inter-hall basketball championship wednesday in a 51-36 victory over keenan. The green wave entered halftime locked in a 26-all tie with the knights, but dominated the second half en route to the championship. 
keenan senior ryan dunbar said Fisher executed better in the second half and took advantage of the knights’ mistakes. 
“[The green wave] made big shots when they had to and we didn’t execute as well as we planned,” dunbar said. “[Fisher] went on a run and we couldn’t make the plays to stop it. But i’m really proud of our guys. The effort and the hustle were there, but the shots weren’t there. and we missed a couple of assign­ments on defense. But we gave ourselves a chance to win, which is ultimately all you can do.” 
Fisher graduates three seniors from its team, but senior mike o’neill said the group effort in wednesday’s game demonstrated the green wave’s strong potential in coming years. 
“it was a team effort, and everyone really stepped up and had a big performance,” he said. “we have a good group of young kids, so watch out for Fisher next year.” 
next week, recsports will cover the men’s interhall ice hockey championship. 



ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

irish aim for momentum change in Bloomington 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
The irish will try to bounce back from a two-loss week­end with tilts against Baylor on saturday and indiana on sunday. 
although the no. 22 irish (5-3) usually have more ex­perience indoors than vis­iting teams from southern climates, they might not pos­sess the same home court advantage when they host the no. 19 Bears on Friday afternoon. 
“we’d probably rather play them outdoors, but since we’re playing them here in February it’s inside,” irish coach Jay louderback said. “They’ve always been a team 
paid adverTisemenT 


that hits the ball very big. They play an aggressive game and they just played the 
national  indoor,  so  they’ve  
been indoors a lot.”  
notre  dame  and  Baylor  

have played every year since 2007 (the Bears lead the all-time series 5-4), but famil­iarity won’t help the irish as Baylor graduated four seniors in 2012. 
although Baylor is ranked in the top 20, the Bears have lost five of their last six matches, including all three at the national Team indoor championships Feb. 8-10. 
after their Friday evening match, the irish will travel to Bloomington, ind., to take on indiana (8-2) on sunday morning. The hoosiers have lost their last two matches by a score of 4-3 to Tennessee on Feb. 15 and kentucky on sunday. despite indiana’s re­cent slide, louderback said the hoosiers still belong in the same company as the irish. 
“They’re a little like we are,” he said. “They’re one in the group that is anywhere from about 10 to 40; it seems like there are lots of schools in there that are just all so close, and indiana is right in there.” 
louderback  said  notre  
dame  will  arrive  in  
Bloomington  on  saturday,  

which will give the irish a chance to get used to indiana’s courts before sunday’s match. 
“They’re always a tough team at home, [because] their courts are pretty fast,” louderback said. “you have to adjust to them some.” 
The irish dropped three spots in the intercollegiate Tennis association rankings after losing 4-3 to purdue at home Feb. 15 and falling 5-2 at northwestern. louderback said he wasn’t too concerned about the losses, as notre dame has been competitive in all of their matches. 
“every match since [Bowling green] we haven’t had one match that either team couldn’t have won,” louderback said. “i think that’s better than just going out and winning a lot of easy matches.” 
notre dame has only won the doubles point in two of its eight matches so far this spring, a troubling develop­ment for a team that puts a strong  emphasis on winning the first point of the match. 
although the irish could not pull out the doubles point against northwestern on sunday, louderback said the new doubles team competing against the wildcates pleased him 
“we had [junior Jennifer] kellner and [senior chrissie] mcgaffigan still play togeth­er, but the other two teams we switched the partners around and we thought they both played really wel.,” he said. “even though we’ve played a few matches, we’re still in the process of looking at some different combinations. our big goal this year is to be ready by Big east time and be playing really well.” 
The irish will begin this weekend’s competition against Baylor on 5aturday morning at 10pa.m.ait the eck Tennis center.hnotre dame then heads south to Bloomington, ind., to take on the hoosiers on sunday morn­ing at 11 a.m. at the indiana university Tennis center. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

MEN’S LACROSSE 

notre dame set to play familiar opponent 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
despite a successful 2012 sea­son, no. 3 notre dame would like this weekend to go a little differ­ently than it did last year. 
last year, the irish downed then-no. 2 duke, 7-3, in the sea­son opener. 
notre dame followed that up, however, by falling to penn state 4-3 in overtime. 
This year’s squad is fresh off saturday’s 13-5 demolition of then-no. 4 duke heading into sunday’s matchup with the no. 9 nittany lions (2-0) at noon in university park, pa. 
irish junior midfielder Jim marlatt, who scored a career-high five goals saturday, said notre dame (1-0) is out for re­venge after last year’s lackluster performance against penn state. 
“our defense played out of their minds [but] our offense cost us the game,” marlatt said of the overtime loss. “i think it’s that simple. we didn’t execute to our full potential. so i think that’s a big part of redeeming ourselves.” 
if saturday’s rout of duke is any indication, scoring will not be a problem for the 2013 irish. in addition to marlatt’s five-goal output, freshman attack matt kavanagh netted four goals in his collegiate debut. senior attack sean rogers and senior midfield­er steve murphy added two goals each. The 13 goals were the most for the irish in a season opener since 2005 against penn state. 
“it’s a good start, good mo­mentum,” marlatt said. “it was fun to play someone else other than ourselves after five weeks of preseason. so it was a good start, something to build on. last year we beat duke and then we kind of laid an egg against penn state, especially offensively so we defi­nitely need to focus on building off that 13 goal performance.” 
The  nittany  lions  posted  
a  dominant  offensive  perfor­ 
mance of their own  sunday  

against no. 11 denver. penn state exploded for 15 goals against the pioneers after bury­ing 11 in a season-opening win over michigan. Junior attack shane sturgis leads the squad with eight goals through two games. sturgis and senior attack Jack Forster ripped four goals each against denver. 
“we watched the second half,” irish senior goalie John kemp said of the penn state win over denver. “so we saw how much offensive firepower [the nittany lions] have. They shot the ball hard. They took good shots. offensively they kind of did what they wanted so we’ve got to prepare for them obviously offensively.” 
kemp, an all-american in 2012, powered an experienced irish defense against the Blue devils on saturday. notre dame led the nation in goals-against average last year, and duke mus­tered just five goals as kemp notched 10 saves in the cage. 
“[our defensive performance saturday] is something to go out and kind of emulate,” kemp said. “we just go into every game the same way, knowing that we have to communicate, take ev­eryone’s role and be there for each other. defensively it’s a thing where everyone has to do their part for us to succeed so ev­eryone’s just got to go in and play the way that we want everyone to play.” 
marlatt said he sees a lot of similarities between the nittany lions and the Blue devils. 
“i think [penn state] is pretty similar to duke but maybe a little more disciplined,” marlatt said. “They’re aggressive. They put two poles on the faceoff so we know they’re going to come out, try to be aggressive at first and then kind of sink in.” 
last year, the irish weathered the initial aggressiveness from penn state, holding the nittany lions scoreless for the first 21 minutes. defense wasn’t the problem, kemp said. 

“we didn’t really play very well offensively last year,” kemp said. “we definitely want to get back at them, i think that was the first time we lost to them in quite some time. They’re a good team.” 
marlatt, meanwhile, said the irish are excited to face a famil­iar foe. 
paid adverTisemenT 
BASEBALL 

irish prepare for celebrated pitcher 

By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
like the many college stu­dents who flocked to new orleans for mardi gras festivi­ties, the notre dame baseball team will take a late-winter trip to new orleans. unlike other students, however, the irish are not looking to revel in the city’s vibrant nightlife. instead, the irish travel to the Big easy looking to sweep a three-game weekend series with Tulane. 
The irish (2-1) will face the green wave (3-1) after earn­ing wins against Florida gulf coast and ohio state in the season-opening snowbird Tournament last weekend in sarasota, Fla. despite failing to complete its rally against mercer in a close 5-4 ballgame sunday, irish coach mik aoki said the team aims to maintain the momentum it earned from winning two of three games, 
“i think the big thing is that we just continue to play well,” aoki said. “in spite of losing that game on sunday, i thought overall we played pretty well.” 
Two players performed well enough in the opening week­end to garner early-season con­ference attention. The Big east named junior third baseman eric Jagielo and freshman pitcher nick mccarty to its weekly honor roll on monday. Jagielo went 6-for-11 with two home runs and eight rBi in the tournament. mccarty pitched five shutout innings of relief to take the 6-5, extra-innings win against Florida gulf coast. 
The irish will need solid work from the plate and from the mound again this week­end if they want to return to south Bend with a series vic­tory against a strong Tulane rotation with a 1.54 team era and a .167 opponent average. aoki said he anticipates three hard-fought games against the green wave. 
“They’re an older team with mostly juniors and seniors, and they’ve got some outstanding pitching so we’re going to get tested for sure,” he said. “This is a really, really good team that we’re going to play.” 
included in the strong Tulane pitching staff is sophomore right hander Tony rizzotti, who threw a complete-game, one-hit shutout in his team’s season opener against sam houston state, a 2-0 Tulane victory. 
“rizzotti’s been the talk of baseball Twitter nation and everything else all week long, and i guess he just pitched outstanding, really great stuff [against sam houston state],” aoki said. 
rizzotti will most likely match up against irish junior right-hander sean Fitzgerald on Friday night, while senior right-hander adam norton and freshman right-hander david hearne will head to the hill in the second and third games for notre dame. 
aoki said these three pitch­ers, backed by solid defense, will try to stop the green wave’s recently hot bats. The louisiana offense carried the team to 6-4 and 5-3 victo­ries over missouri state and southeastern louisiana, re­spectively in its last two games. 
“For us, the big thing is that our kids go out and pitch and make sure that we’re throwing strikes, that we’re command­ing it,” he said. “The game is set up in such a way that the de­fense and the pitching have a really big advantage, so as long as you don’t create your own messes, either by defending it poorly or pitching it poorly, i think we’ll be okay. These guys just got to go out and do what they do.” 
The irish will face the green wave at Turchin stadium in “it’s a team we’re familiar with 


— 
we’ve played them in the past 

—
 so we’re looking forward to it,” marlatt said. 


The irish seek revenge against penn state on sunday at noon in university park, pa. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
new orleans at 6:30 p.m. today, at 2 p.m. saturday and at noon sunday. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



MEN’S TENNIS 



Irish face toughest competition of the season 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
The no. 25 irish hit the road this weekend, traveling to columbus, ohio, to face no. 4 ohio state. The Buckeyes (10­
2) will be the highest ranked opponent notre dame (6-4) has faced this season. 
ohio state dropped its sec­ond contest of the season 4-3 last weekend to no. 1 virginia. its only other loss came against no. 14 Texas a&m on Feb. 10. The irish enter the weekend following a 4-3 vic­tory over no. 23 michigan. 
“The [michigan] win will give us some confidence go­ing into this weekend,” junior ryan Bandy said. 
Junior Billy pecor has be­come a leader for the irish lately, clinching the win over michigan with his victory in singles play. pecor also earned a win in doubles play during the contest. The Big east awarded pecor player of the week honors for his efforts. 
For the Buckeyes, no. 62 ju­nior Blaz rola offers similar leadership skills. The Big Ten named him athlete of the week for the eighth time in rola’s career wednesday. rola is 7-0 in singles play and 7-0 in doubles play this season. 
Joining rola in the nation­al singles rankings for the Buckeyes are no. 2 junior peter kobelt, no. 30 senior connor smith and no. 37 freshman chris diaz. 
despite the disparity in rankings, senior Blas moros said the irish have no hesi­tation as the weekend approaches. 
notre dame lost to no. 6 kentucky on Feb. 12, but the 4-3 contest proved to the squad it can compete with the toughest opponents, he said. “we have a great opportunity this weekend against top-five ohio state and our guys know that,” moros said. “There will be no lack of motivation get­ting ready for this match.” 
play will begin at 12 p.m. saturday afternoon in columbus, ohio. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


ND SOFTBALL 

notre dame takes competitive edge south 
weather conditions, Beth twice to ohio and once to st. athletic conference preseason showed us that we will fight 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 

sports writer keylon-randolph, the coach John’s. one day after falling 9-5 coaches’ poll. until the last out of the last in-of host team east carolina, to the red storm, east carolina The irish enter the week-ning,” Buntin said. “it was an The irish will travel to announced alterations to the bounced back with a 1-0 win. end having most recently suf-exciting game to be a part of north carolina this week for schedule Thursday. lehigh, liberty (1-3) earned its only fered a close 7-5 loss to no. 1 and we want to continue play-the second time this season. one of the teams original-win of the season against oklahoma. The game lasted ing with that same enthusi­
notre dame (4-5) will com-ly scheduled to compete, iupui by the count of 5-2. nine innings, proving notre asm. “ 
pete in the pirate invitational has withdrawn from the Fairfield opens their season dame’s ability to compete at despite the loss, the irish left 
in greenville, n.c., against tournament. this weekend, competing for the top, according to irish se-the field with other success-
liberty, east carolina and east carolina will be hosting the first time in greenville. nior catcher amy Buntin. es. Their five runs broke the 
Fairfield. its third tournament this sea-The stags recently earned the “although the score at the sooners’ streak of more than due to potentially adverse son. The pirates (5-3) have lost top spot in the metro atlantic end didn’t show it, that game 35 scoreless innings. Junior pitcher laura winter helped paid adverTisemenT 

lead the squad with 14 strike­outs, while the deep batting order collected eight hits. 
“we are rolling into this weekend with the same energy we brought to the oklahoma game,” Buntin said. 
during the week of practice since oklahoma, notre dame has been looking for ways to improve and emerge from the weekend with three wins. 
“This week we focused a lot on our offense and making things happen with our bats when runners are in scoring positions,” Buntin said. 
The invitational schedule re­mains tentative due to weath­er but the irish are currently scheduled to start the week­end saturday at 1 p.m. against liberty followed by east carolina at 5:30 p.m. notre dame will finish the pirate invitational in greenville, n.c., on sunday at 9 a.m. against Fairfiely. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


Brey 
conTinued From page 24 
quarterfinals of the Big east tournament. 
“[it’s] very familiar territory for us heading down the stretch in the midst of maybe getting a double-bye,” Brey said. “we’ve been in that race before. of course, our last four are very challenging.” 
notre dame bested the Bearcats 66-60 on Jan. 7. irish junior guard Jerian grant spearheaded the notre dame attack with 19 points on 7-for­10 shooting from the field. as a team, notre dame made nine of 16 three-pointers. Bearcats junior guard sean kilpatrick scored 15 points in the loss. 
Brey said the key to winning games down the stretch will be powering through the in­evitable valleys that come with the peaks. The irish missed 18 of their first 19 shots against the panthers on monday and had three points total nearly 13 minutes into the game. Brey said the irish have realized the importance of defense and re­bounding when the offense is sputtering. 
“The four remaining games are all [against] really good teams,” Brey said. “what i’ve liked — what i think we’ve come to grips with — is we’re going to have our lulls. we’re going to be unsmooth. can we just go back and guard and rebound like that? and that’s hard. when guys’ offense isn’t going good will they do that? 
“well on the road the other night, pittsburgh, there was the mentality ‘Boy, we better do that or we’re going to get blown out.’ … if we have our lulls we have our lulls. let’s just rely on defending and rebounding the ball and [being] mentally tough to know that if it’s a close game, we’ve been pretty good in close games.” 
Brey said graduate student guard scott martin, who has missed the last eight games with a knee injury, could be close to returning. 
“i don’t know about [play­ing] this weekend but i think he’s really trying to make some progress toward a full practice — or going live five-on-five — on Friday, which would be a big step,” Brey said. “i don’t know if he would be really ready with all the time he’s missed and just two days of practice. i think we’ve just got to see a couple full days of practice. But we are making progress. i’m encouraged.” 
The well-rested irish tip off against cincinnati on sunday at 2 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
Jackson 
conTinued From page 24 

western michigan enters the contest allowing only 1.94 goals per game. slubowski has started every game for the Broncos this season and ranks 11th in the nation in goals against average and second in minutes played. 
Jackson said winning mat­ters more against a tough defensive opponent than the game’s style. “it’s about great goaltending and teams that play good team defense,” Jackson said. “and that’s why, like sunday, you have to be willing to win a game 2-1.” 
a stifling defense and goalie are not the only prob­lems notre dame might face this weekend. The irish will also deal with of the tough­est crowds in the ccha at the 3,667-seat lawson arena. 
“They’ve got a great stu­dent section — it’s like a little bandbox in there,” Jackson said. “The fans are right on top of you. … if they were my fans, i’d be happy to have them. They’re into the game and it’s a loud building.” 
This will be the second se­ries between the irish and the defending mason cup-champion Broncos this sea­son. The teams split a pair of games in the compton Family ice arena in early november. 
“The personnel’s the same. i’m sure the tactical end of the game’s probably fairly similar,” Jackson said of this series compared to the series in november. “it just depends on where their mindset is and where ours is, if there’s any differential.” 
The irish and Broncos face off against the Broncos at 7:35 p.m. tonight and 
7:05 p.m. saturday night at lawson arena in kalamazoo, mich. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 






CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: ashley green, 26; ellen page, 26; Jennifer love hewitt, 34; kelsey grammer, 58 
Happy Birthday: you need to put a little more fun and excitement into your life. new hobbies, pastimes or physical challenges will help you discover a side of you that has been buried due to responsibilities. let your imagination take over and you’ll find a lifestyle that is rejuvenating. communication skills will be amplified. your numbers are 3, 8, 15, 24, 27, 33, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): listen to complaints and what it is people are asking for and you will have a better idea how to move forward. Being oblivious to others will lead to emotional stress and demands that you won’t want to tackle. avoid secret encounters. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Follow your intuition and you will end up exactly where you are supposed to be. share feelings with someone who has common interests. don’t give in to indulgence. Too much of anything will depreciate your gains. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): steer clear of anyone looking for a favor that will deter you from reaching your personal or professional goals. leave room to deal with a personal issue that arises between you and someone looking for more than what you have to offer. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t hesitate if an opportunity arises that allows you to mix business with pleasure. The better acquainted you are with your colleagues, the further ahead you will get. precision and decisiveness will raise your profile. Take control. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): make whatever alterations are necessary to achieve happi­ness. don’t give in to demands being put on you by someone you feel is stifling you. a short trip will open your eyes to what’s available if you are willing to make a move. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): put practicality first. you may want to overreact to com­pensate for something, but you are best to keep things simple and to the point. live by your rules, not what someone else wants you to do. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): let situations play out naturally and eventually every­thing will fall into place. a change in your relationships will benefit you in the end, so don’t lament something you cannot alter. love is in the stars and socializing is a must. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): visit people you admire or research a culture that you find fascinating. incorporating ideals you feel akin to will enable you to fulfill a dream from long ago. get involved in a creative endeavor that allows you to explore your talents. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make changes at home that will secure your repu­tation and your future. deception and disillusionment are present. proceed with caution. don’t reveal personal information or it may end up costing you financially. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): utilize everything you studied or experienced in the past in order to complete a project. an unusual approach to an old idea will put you in a favorable position when dealing with potential partners. personal investments will pay off. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): learning and trying new pastimes will lead to an interesting meeting with someone who is trying to achieve similar goals. larger quarters or closer proximity to others will add comfort, opportunity and joy to your life. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): don’t let anyone talk you in to doing things on too grand a scale. minimizing your job duties will result in higher profits. contracts should be drawn up and signed to keep everyone in check and contributing what’s expected. 


Birthday Baby: you are compassionate and proactive. you are outgoing, charming and original. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher Brucker 

LOWER YOUREXPECTATIONS| lenny rago & paTrick cross 



The oBserver | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
MEN’S BASKETBALL 


Rested and ready 
irish hit the road 
Notre Dame faces Cincinnati in Big East homestretch 
to play depaul 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
after playing a pair of over­time thrillers last week, the no. 25 irish could finally rest and recover. 
notre dame (21-6, 9-5 Big east) squared off with two conference foes on the road in a quick saturday-monday turnaround, but the rundown irish have had ample time to recover for sunday’s tilt with cincinnati at purcell pavilion. 
“much needed, really much needed,” irish coach mike Brey said wednesday of the respite. “we took [Tuesday] off. we’ll go a little bit [wednesday], not crazy, and then we’re go­ing to take [Thursday] off, shorten the week up and then we have two days to get ready for cincinnati. and then i love the fact that we don’t play until [march 2] after the [cincinnati] game. 
“This is really needed for us, probably just as much mental­ly as physically.” 
with four games remaining in the standing-room-only Big east, the irish are entrenched in fifth place, though they are just one-and-a-half games out of first place. cincinnati (19­7, 7-6), meanwhile, has lost three of its last four games and has fallen to 10th place in the league. 
while the Bearcats fell to connecticut 73-66 on Thursday night, the irish will have had five full days be­tween games after downing pittsburgh 51-42 on monday. 
“i can be a fan and root a little bit,” Brey said. “we’re always rooting standings down the stretch. certainly when you have a win like we did monday it’s nice to put that in the bank for a while and see what the rest of the league does.” 

Brey said the irish are eyeing one of four double-byes to the 
see Brey PAGE 22 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 

no. 2 notre dame will not venture far from home to play depaul in chicago on sunday. But though the drive is short, the irish (24-1, 12-0 Big east) will face an unfriendly envi­ronment for this conference road game. The Blue demons (18-8, 7-5) will defend their 14-1 record at home when notre dame arrives at the mcgrath­phillips arena. The game could be quite a challenge for the irish, coach muffet mcgraw said. 
mcgraw said the depaul fans’ energy will produce plen­ty of noise, as tickets for the game sold out wednesday. 
“i love to play it here,” mcgraw said. “[The mcgrath­phillips arena] is like a high school gym, so it’ll be very loud, and it’s going to be difficult. it’s a struggle to play up there. They are really, really tough at home. 
“we expect [Blue demons senior guard] anna martin to be back,” mcgraw said. “she’s their top player that’s been out for three weeks. That’ll give them a huge lift. it’s going to be a tough game for us.” 
martin anchors a start­ing lineup that features three players who average double-fig­ure points per game. depaul’s two starting forwards, senior katherine harry and junior Jasmine penny, stand at 6-foot­3 and 6-foot-1, respectively. mcgraw said the Blue demons use their size to spread the floor and create space on the pe­rimeter for their sharp-shoot­ing guards. harry and penny present particularly difficult matchups for notre dame and have consistently been a tough game on the irish schedule in recent years, mcgraw said. 
“last year, penny had a re­ally good game against us here and harry is a tough matchup for us too,” she said. “so, those two guys inside are tough for us to guard. They’re playing really well right now, and they have a good team because you can’t double team them be­cause their guards shoot the ball well.” 
The irish are coming off a resounding 87-49 victory over marquette on sunday in which senior guard skylar diggins put up 23 points and moved into sole possession of second place on notre dame’s all-time scor­ing list. Junior forward natalie achonwa chipped in 17 points 
see mcgraw PAGE 18 
HOCKEY 

Team travels to play key CCHA weekend series 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
no. 11 notre dame will face one of the toughest teams and venues in the country when it travels to kalamazoo, mich., this weekend for a two-game series with no. 7 western michigan at lawson arena. 
Following a 2-1 victory over miami (ohio) at soldier Field on sunday, the irish (19-12­1, 15-8-1-1 ccha) trail the second-place Broncos (18­8-6, 14-6-4-2) by one point in the conference race with four games remaining, and are three points behind the ccha-leading redhawks. 
The irish clinched a top-five ccha finish last week­end, which guarantees a first-round bye in the ccha tournament. notre dame needs just one win or shoot­out win in its final four games to secure home-ice advantage in the second round of the conference tournament. 
irish coach Jeff Jackson said he is aware his players check other ccha scores in the middle of a tight conference race whether he wants them to or not, but it’s critical they remain focused on their own game. 
“it doesn’t matter if i mind, i’m sure they’re doing it, and they’re on the internet all the time so i’m sure that they’re looking at everything, no matter what i say,” Jackson said. “i just want them to stay focused on the process here, because the only thing that matters right now is Friday night.” 
less than a week after play­ing the redhawks — the na­tion’s top scoring defense 
— the irish will face the no. 3 scoring defense in the country when they head to kalamazoo. Behind sopho­more preseason all-ccha goaltender Frank slubowski, 
see Jackson PAGE 22 




