The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 7 | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Temple game produces only two arrests 
Individuals apprehended on campus during game day for public intoxication and disorderly conduct 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
saturday’s football home opener against Temple university brought more than 100,000 people to campus, and director of game day operations mike seamon said the day’s overall atmosphere was “absolutely elevated.” 
“it was definitely above what we would consider a normal standard for a typical opening day,” seamon said. “everything was energized … because peo­ple are excited about the sea­son and there’s a key interest in notre dame football. [This weekend] was bigger than any of the home openers in the past two or three years.” 
seamon said the stadium boasted a sellout crowd of ap­proximately 82,000 people, and even more fans flooded campus saturday for other game day events. nearly 12,000 people attended Friday’s pep rally and about 5,000 participated in the tour of the stadium and tunnel on Friday, he said. 
The number one concern for saturday’s game was the weather forecast, seamon said. 
“The weather was predicted to be very hot and humid, so we put together a big heat and humidity plan,” he said. “we put together a cooling station outside gate a and worked with the first aid team to be sure we were prepared. 
“it was a tough day weather-wise, but it could have been worse, thankfully. we had a good plan in place, and people did a good job watching out for each other so it went fairly well.” 
phil Johnson, chief of police for notre dame security police, said the flow of traffic near cam­pus on game day went smoothly despite construction. 
“area police agencies worked cooperatively to promote public safety and smooth traffic flow,” Johnson said. “everything with the new douglas road went very well. … construction south of campus along south bend avenue didn’t adversely impact game day traffic.” 
seamon said the outbound traffic was especially smooth after the game because not ev­erybody stayed until the very 
see arresTs PAGE 5 




student activities night showcases extra-curriculars 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
nearly 300 student organiza­tions participated in the annual student activities night, hosted by the student activities office (sao) in the Joyce center from 7:00-9:00 
p.m. Tuesday night. academic, pro­fessional, service, athletic and other miscellaneous clubs explained their pursuits to interested stu­dents, who circulated between the organizations’ tables. 
Freshman Felipe remolina said he was most interested in the 
see acTiviTes PAGE 5 




Campus Ministry launches new app 
By JOANNA LAGEDROST 
news writer 
on aug. 1, campus ministry launched a smart­phone calendar application that features faith-based campus events and pro­vides access to the alumni association’s daily prayers, saints and gospel reflections. 
Kate morgan, associate di­rector of communications at the office of campus ministry, said the app, called nd daily Faith, is available for free download on all apple and android devices. 
morgan said the app already has several hundred users. 
“we really want students to be able to have access to all the faith-based events that are happening on cam­pus in one location,” morgan said.  
The calendar features oc­casions like upcoming mass­es, retreats, fellowship group meetings, lectures and vari­ous other events, morgan said. she said links to reg­istration forms will also be available through the app. 
see app PAGE 4 


hammes bookstore introduces new tech center 
By JACK ROONEY 
news writer 
The hammes bookstore has upgraded their tech­nology center in the form of the newly-opened hammes hub, which provides stu­dents and faculty with a central location for tech­nology services, retail and assistance, said marketing manager for notre dame retail operations Kristin blitch. 
located in the northeast corner of the first floor of the hammes bookstore, The hub carries a variety of apple, dell and lenovo products, including lap­tops, tablets and desktops, blitch said. microsoft chose the hammes bookstore as one of only 25 university bookstores to carry its surface tablet, she said. 
The hub also carries a variety of ipods, head­phones, ihome clocks and speakers, printers and accessories for all of its hardware, she said. blitch said the hub does not, however, offer the iphone, though it does sell iphone accessories. 
blitch said the staff of the hub makes all of the tablets, laptops, desktops and ipods available for in-store testing before pur­chasing, which creates a “try it before you buy it” atmosphere much like an apple or windows store. 
she said students can easily order any product not in stock and can pick it up at the bookstore. The hub sells the products at an academic price, which is discounted from re­tail pricing, blitch said. academic pricing also in­cludes the popular apple back-to-school offers, which give students a $100 
see hub PAGE 5 


news PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 FooTball PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What was your favorite part of the first home football weekend? 



Sarah Jackson 
senior 
off-campus 

“going to the backer after the game and seeing all of the recent graduates and present students together.” 

Austin Lagomarsino 
senior 
Keough hall 

“Freshmen vs. upperclassmen section football scrimmage on sunday night.” 

DeVonté Applewhite 
Junior 
Keenan hall 

“all of the alumni, parents and families coming to see how beautiful the university is.” 

A.J.Weh 
Junior 
off-campus 
“The win — should’ve been a stronger win, though.” 

Catherine Ake 
senior 
lyons hall 
“doing push-ups in the student section.” 

Caroline Ruhlin 
senior 
off-campus 
“being back on campus and seeing all of my friends.” 



Today’s Staff 
News Sports Want your event included here? 
christian myers greg hadley 
abi hoverman conor Kelly Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Katie mccarty mike monaco 

Graphics Scene 

sara shoemake Kevin noonan 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Photo Viewpoint 

ashley dacy Tabitha ricketts 
Freshman Night at Momix “Can ND Women SatAWAY Class Men’s Soccer 
John ning 

the Snite DeBartolo Performing Have It All?” Snite Museum 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Snite Museum of Art Arts Center South Dining Hall Sculpture Garden Alumni Stadium 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 9:30 a.m.-10:30 a.m. Game against North 


Corrections 

Reception and  tours Dance performance of Panel discusses balancing Free outdoor yoga. Carolina. 
The observer regards itself as for first-year students. “The Four Seasons.” careers and family. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Workshop: How Iron Sharpens Iron Women’s Volleyball National Theatre Mass in Spanish 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
to Improve Your Coleman-Morse Center Purcell Pavilion Live: The Audience Dillon Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
Academic English 10 p.m.-11 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
DeBartolo Hall Interdenominational Match against Bowling Arts Center Mass celebrated by Fr. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
6:30p.m.-8 p.m. Christian worship Green. 3 p.m.-5:25 p.m. Joe Corpora, C.S.C. 
we can correct our error. 

Tips for non-native speakers. service. Live re-broadcast. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2013 | The observer 




CWIL provides language instruction at SMC 
By CAROLINE STICKELL 
news writer 
Thanks to the center for women’s intercultural leadership (cwil), women from around the world can improve their english lan­guage skills at saint mary’s 
college.  
The  cwil  provides  
english  language  instruc­ 
tion  through  its  english  

language school for all de­grees of english proficiency, from the beginner to ad­vanced levels. 
Terra sniadecki, the direc­tor of the english language school, said that the focus of the program is for partici­pants to become proficient in english and to be pre­pared for higher education in the united states. 
“it is important to us that the students not only be­come proficient academi­cally at english but that they also become more comfort­able with english socially,” said sniadecki. 
sniadecki said this goal is achieved by offering both traditional classroom-based lectures and electives that include service-based learn­ing and university-level aca­


“It is important to us that the students not only become proficient academically at English but that they also become more comfortable with English socially.” 
Terra Sniadecki 
director of English Language 
School 
demic preparation. 
The english language school, now in its third year, has attracted students from saudi arabia, china, costa rica, ethiopia, Zambia, india and Korea, sniadecki said. 
students at the school have many opportunities to be part of the saint mary’s college community and many live on campus with saint mary’s students, she said. 
sniadecki said the reward­ing interactions that the stu­dents of the school have with saint mary’s students is an­other benefit of the program. 
“both education ma­jors and those seeking their Tseol (Teachers of english to speakers of other languages) certification at saint mary’s work with these students both for the hands on experience and for the benefits of interacting with others from different coun­tries,” said sniadecki. 
sniadecki said The english language school has cer­tified many students who have gone on to become suc­cessful at the university lev­el, including students who are now enrolled at saint mary’s. 
Contact Caroline Stickell at cstick01@saintmary.edu 
drives. she said the im-
Hub 
provements are part of 
conTinued From page 1 
the bookstore’s partner-
app store credit with the purchase of a mac and a $50 credit with the purchase of an ipad. 
in addition to being an all-in-one technology shop, the hub provides service and assistance for broken computers and other products, she said. 
“one of the things we’re able to do now is repairs,” blitch said. “if you have any issue with your computer, the office of information (oiT) will run a diag­nostic on it and let you know the next course of action.” 
blitch said oiT can still handle any ser­vice issues at their of­fices, located in the information Technology center (iTc) on library Quad, but the hub pro­vides the same services in its convenient book­store location. 
blitch said the hub is a significant improve­ment on the bookstore’s old technology platform, which featured basic software and minimal hardware, such as flash ship with oiT. 
“we’ve really worked hard to expand [the technology platform], and that was through the partnership with oiT. They know what works for campus,” she said. “we’re working hand-in-hand every step of the way. it’s a full 
partnership.”  
in  a  July  press  re­ 
lease,  director  of  
hammes  bookstore  and  

retail operations Keith Kirkpatrick said the bookstore will contin­ue to work with oiT on ways to serve the cam­pus community 
“collaborating with oiT to develop our com­prehensive retail plan has been a great expe­rience and we look for­ward to the opportunity to further serve the cam­pus.” Kirkpatrick said. 
The hammes hub is open during all regu­lar bookstore hours and is accessible on-line at any time through ndcatalog.com. 


Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 







SMC playright scores a stage 
By CHRISTIN KLOSKI 
news writer 
as students whiled away their summers at internships and seasonal jobs, sophomore maria wesler saw her original play, “unlocked”, selected for a stage reading at the goodman Theatre in chicago on July 29. 
wesler received an email earlier in the month confirm­ing that her play would be fea­tured in the theater’s biennial latino Theater Festival, but she said it took some time for her to believe that her play had been selected. 
“when i checked my email … i screamed at the top of my lungs. i had to reread the con­gratulations about five times to realize i wasn’t hallucinating, and i still checked the email for the next three days to solidify the reality — my play was cho­sen,” wesler said. 
wesle said her play was se­lected as one of the amateur works chosen to highlight the latino-american community by staging plays and dramatic readings. 
she said her play calls for the audience to open their imagina­tions and to find a new perspec­tive through the characters. 
wesler said the plot revolves around the main character’s family and his involvement in a local gang. 
“‘unlocked’ is the story of santiago ramirez, an illegal immigrant from mexico, who feels trapped in his family’s chase for the ‘american dream.’ stuck on the east side of los angeles, santiago feels discon­nected from his busy family, his first home and america [while] stuck in boyle heights, a pre­dominantly latino communi­ty,” said wesler. 
“To cope with his loneliness, he joins a gang called hazard. The play is about the ramirez family confronting santiago and trying to persuade him to leave the gang behind.” 
wesler said she consulted giannina reyes-giardiello, a spanish professor at saint mary’s college, when develop­ing the play. wesler began writ­ing the play after spring break of last year and then submitted it to the goodman Theatre’s amateur competition. The idea for the play’s theme arose from wesler’s relationship with a lithuanian friend who had crossed the canadian border il­legally, wesler said. 
“not many people think of lithuanians when they hear the term ‘illegal immigrant,’” wesler said. “my friend was one of the most remarkable women i’ve ever met. strong, funny, in­dependent, and so intelligent she was transferred into an academy after her freshmen year. she was going to be a neu­rosurgeon, that was, until she didn’t get accepted into a single university. it wasn’t because she was unqualified; it was be­cause she was illegal. she told me how she felt trapped, locked inside this american dream that proved more to be a mirage than a future goal.” 
wesler said she had some dif­ficulty relating to her charac­ters because her background was very different than the latino community she depicts 


“Hearing people laugh at the jokes and seeing my imagination come to life was more than enough, but it was the sight of my friends and family who came to support me that was the icing on the cake.” 
Maria Wesler 
sophomore 
in “unlocked.” 
wesler grew up in the chicago suburbs with little exposure to the topic of immigration. she said her father once asked her, “no offense, sweetie, but what does a white girl from the chicago suburbs know about il­legal immigrants?” wesler said the best part of the festival was sharing the experience with family and friends. 
 “hearing people laugh at the jokes and seeing my imagina­tion come to life was more than enough, but it was the sight of my friends and family who came to support me that was the icing on the cake,” wesler said. 
Katie sullivan, associate pro­fessor of theatre, said she is ea­ger to hear about what wesler will do next. 
 “she is clear that she wants to become a playwright. [she] told us this when she arrived on campus a year ago. it is really exciting that she has achieved such a feather in her cap at this early point in her life as a writ­er. we need more women play­wrights,” sullivan said. 
Theatre professor susan baxter said wesler’s play shows a great deal of talent. 
“maria is a remarkable per­son with a lot of passion. she’s already demonstrated focused [and] abundant talent for dra­matic writing,” baxter said. 
wesler said she tries to in­vite her audience to look at the world through a magnifying glass, and that she intends to write more plays to broaden her audience’s perspectives 
Contact Christin Kloski at           cklosk01@saintmarys.edu 
App 
conTinued From page 1 
morgan said users can tailor the app to meet their preferences in terms of display, as well as enable reminders for upcoming activities. 
nd daily Faith lists not only upcoming campus ministry events, morgan said, but also includes the events of other university departments, includ­ing the congregation of holy cross, the center for social concerns, the center for ethics & culture, the institute for church life, the department of Theology, the alliance for catholic education, multicultural student programs and services and the basilica of the sacred heart. she said this makes the app a single comprehensive notre dame faith-based calendar. 
morgan said no oth­er notre dame depart­ment has a comprehensive smartphone application like campus ministry’s new app.  
“This is the first of its kind and we’re pretty proud of that. we didn’t want to create one more website for students to have to go to if apps are things more com­monly used with smart­phones.  we wanted to try to do something a little bit different,” morgan said. 
The idea for nd daily Faith was originally conceived in January, morgan said, and she hoped the app would allow for greater aware­ness of and participation in campus ministry events and activities. 
“Through this app, campus ministry hopes to meet students where they are,” she said. 
morgan said that over­all, campus ministry aims to increase its presence on campus. 
“i think that, at the 
paid adverTisemenT 
university of notre dame, faith development and for­mation is just as big a part of students’ experience as is football, and it should be embraced as such,” she said. “we need to provide easier, more accessible ways for students to be­come more involved in our programs and learn more about us.” 


Contact Joanna Lagredost at jlagredo@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2013 | The observer 





SMC Campus Ministry and OCSE collaborate in new service intiative 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
saint mary’s office of campus ministry officials said they anticipate many belles will volunteer in the south bend community during the 2013-14 academic year. 
The faith-oriented office is launching a new volunteering initiative after a successful one-year pilot program, junior Kaitie maierhofer said. 
campus ministry collabo­rated with the office for civic and social engagement (ocse) to provide dorm residents op­portunities to volunteer in spe­cific nonprofits and to engage in service-learning experiences, maierhofer said. 
she said le mans will serve hannah’s house, regina will partner with the center for the homeless, and holy cross hall will work with hannah and Friends. The freshman dorm, mccandless, is set to take on hope ministries. 

each of the four dorms has one or two ministry assistants (mas) who will mediate and encour­age relationships between their residents and the communities they serve, maierhofer said. 
haleigh ehmsen, a sopho­more and ma for holy cross hall, said saint mary’s campus ministry appointed mas to help students find opportunities for service and expression of faith. 
“[mas] work in collaboration with campus ministry and the residence life staff to offer pro­grams that engage the residents in their faith and spiritual jour­neys within their daily lives,” she said. “The mas are also re­sponsible for coordinating so­cial outreach opportunities with their community partner. They provide a positive influence and pastoral presence as they cel­ebrate the joys and challenges of the residents’ lives.” 
maierhofer said she is the ma for mccandless, though she originally wanted a position as a resident assistant. 
“i kind of wanted to be an ra to help others — especially the freshman getting acclimated to the saint mary’s lifestyle,” maierhofer said. “one of my roommates thought i would be better as a ministry assistant in order to get the residents spiritu­ally settled. an ra is more like a parent, i feel more like a guide.” 
maierhofer said she wants to connect her dorm’s residents with their designated non-profit to help develop relationships with the communities they serve. 
“we actually just set a date for the volunteer director, emily Jensen, and one or two of the residents [of hope ministries] to give talks to the residents [of mccandless] about ‘hope’ and how it’s helped them,” maierhofer said. “because smc is so small, we can get a lot more intimate with this community-oriented organization.” 
ehmsen agreed that personal relationships are key to sus­tained volunteering. 
“This year, our focus is on getting students involved in these communities by estab­lishing personal relationships,” ehmsen said. “interaction is the answer. our presence there ben­efits the hannah and Friends community as well as our own. it’s really a learning experience for all.” 
maierhofer said interest in campus ministry’s volunteer­ing efforts has increased, espe­cially among first year students. 
“multiple freshman ap­proached me the first day of classes already asking about what sort of volunteering or­ganizations, community ser­vice they could do in the area,” maierhofer said. “our ice cream social had around 200 students in attendance, much more than any year we’ve hosted the event before. plus, we are — or are very close to — running out of spots on the freshman retreat.” 


Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
Arrests 
conTinued From page 1 
end. 
“The game wasn’t very close, so a lot of people didn’t feel like they needed to stay until the last play,” he said. “it didn’t go down to the last minute so peo­ple left at different times, which really sped things up.” 
police made two custodial arrests on campus saturday, Johnson said. 
“one [arrest] was inside the stadium and one was outside,” Johnson said. “both were ar­rested for public intoxication and disorderly conduct.” 
seamon said another main concern was the implementa­tion of the stadium’s new bag policy. 
“people were very recep­tive and understanding [of the policy] especially in light of the boston marathon tragedy,” he said. “we found that if you did not bring a bag, you got into the stadium quicker and that’s what we’d recommend in the future if you want to get in quickly.” 

Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Activites 
conTinued From page 1 
student international business counsel, the marketing club and the sailing club. he also said the wide array of groups represented by the many booths impressed him. 
“i enjoyed the chance to get to know the breadth and diversity of student interests on campus,” he said. 
For several clubs, this event marked their first official appear­ance in the notre dame campus community. sophomore bryan ricketts, founding member of the new prismnd organization for lgbTQ students and allies, said activities night allowed prismnd to reach out to students face-to-face and to establish a branded pres­ence for their new organization. 
“having an official table and seeing the excitement on people’s faces — it’s great to have that af­firmation,” ricketts said. “i think promoting a message here is pretty difficult, but i do think that it is great for branding the club and handing out information in a one­on-one interaction.” 
ricketts said over the course of the two-hour event people from all sections of the community have signed up with prismnd. 
The humor artists, reigning win­ners of club coordination council (ccc)’s club of the year award sent several representatives to activities night. Junior miranda brickner and senior Kyle mcdonald, officers of the club, said they felt that attend­ees seemed enthused about the 
“I enjoyed the chance to get to know the breadth and diversity of student interests on campus.” 
Felipe Remolina 
freshman 
humor artists. brickner said an impressive number of students expressed an 
interest in the club. 
“many people came to seek us out, which goes to show how our club’s popularity has grown,” brickner said. 
mcdonald said the congenial atmosphere at the group’s per­formances is a large part of their appeal. 
“i think that people really ap­preciate the opportunity to just relax and have fun when they take part in our shows, since we do ev­erything through improvisation,” mcdonald said. 
Freshman ian Tembe said he found himself drawn toward the more academic clubs, though he said he still appreciated the fun op­portunities represented by other clubs at Tuesday’s event. 
“i found that the more complex the presentation of a club was, the more i was drawn to it,” Tembe said. 
Tembe said colorful banners, cutouts, candy and the occasional interactive display caught his eye, drawing him to the clubs with a more extensive set-up.Tembe said he also appreciated that clubs can serve as co-curricular as well as extra-curricular activities. 
“i’m interested in all kinds of disciplines, so it helps to be able to join a club in an interesting subject rather than taking a class.” Tembe said. 



Contact Charlie Ducey cducey@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 


INSIDE COLUMN 

my rudy parallel 

Stephanie Wulz 
graphics editor 

i’ve never spoken with rudy ruettiger in person, but i know there is one thing we can both agree on: Transferring into the university of notre dame was one decision we both would never regret. 
as my senior year begins, it is fun to look back and see my transition from when i came into the notre dame family my sophomore year. Though i didn’t transfer in with dreams of making the football team, i did want to become a member of the band of the Fighting irish. after juggling transfer orientation and band re­hearsals, i auditioned for band and was lucky to earn a spot in the ranks. 
being a member of the trombone section alone proved to me the value that notre dame students place in friendships. The unity of the section and the band as a whole is just one aspect of the most unique student groups out there. 
having the opportunity to trot out of the tunnel and march on the sta­dium field with these people brought the greatest sense of energy into every game day. even though the crowds never chanted my name, they were always cheering for my school and my new home, which is some­thing magical in itself. 
Just as rudy needed some guidance along the way, i found mentors that have taught me the value in being true to myself. Fr. martin, my first art professor at notre dame, taught me that i could capture any moment with the proper amount of patience and dedication. The key was to set aside doubt and begin with the basic rela­tionships and structure, and then fill in the details. my thesis advisor, prof. robert sedlack, taught me that if i wanted to be a good designer, i had to master the skills, but also have good character. he proved to me that there is so much good that design can do in the world and there is no better time then now to do it. 
when it comes to encouragement, i am blessed to have all the friends i have made here at notre dame. being back to see all the familiar faces makes me realize that the greatest things i will leave here with upon graduation next may are the memo­ries and life lessons that we have ex­perienced together. 
and though the plot line of my “rudy” story isn’t the blockbuster one, it is the one that i will always re­member. i thank everyone for making the past three years a story worth tell­ing and look forward to the final two semesters that are still unwritten. 
Contact Stephanie Wulz at swulz@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Peter Hall 
guest columnist 

in the spring of 2013, the leprechaun legion informed the student body that there would be a new seating policy for the 2013 football season. Their general admission plan was met with mixed re­views from the students, but now that i have seen it in action, i believe it is time to analyze the new policy. i found that the policy underwhelmed on its main premise, to “allow the most passionate fans to sit closest to the field, giving our team a louder, more intimidating home field advantage.” it also created a host of other problems. 
The driving force behind the new stadium seating was, as the leprechaun legion stated in their email to the stu­dent body on april 18, 2013, to “allow the most passionate fans to sit closest to the field, giving our team a louder, more intimidating home field advantage.” 
whether or not the “most passionate” fans were indeed closest to the field on saturday, i could not tell the difference between the crowd vs. Temple and the crowd vs. usF in 2011 (the most recent season home opener) or the crowd vs. purdue in 2012 (last season’s home opener). 
i would call myself a passionate notre dame football fan, and due to a conces­sion stand i was helping, i could not arrive early to secure a seat “close to the field.” my seat, although rather high up for the student section, was still quite excellent and in no way impacted my passion for the game and the volume of my cheers. i did notice, however, no stark changes in stadium atmosphere. 
The student section, regardless of seating policy, will be loud and rowdy for the games. changing the seating policy does not change the fact that our student population is much lower than those of other large football schools, and thus their stadiums may seem loud­er in comparison to our own beloved notre dame stadium. also, changing the student seating policy impacts in no way how the other 70,000 fans in the stadium cheer. 
i believe the policy change did not have the desired positive effect, so now let me point out the negative side effects and unintended consequences of the policy change. 
i noticed two glaring errors in this new policy in practice on saturday. First, although students were not sup­posed to save seats, it still happened. This created a host of problems. unlike the basketball stadium, seats in the football stadium are just painted num­bers on a bench with no divider be­tween seats. This makes it very hard to determine if a row is full or if it still has a couple of open seats. 
students were forced to move up until it was obvious a row had enough seats for their group, thus giving the illusion the student section was fuller than it really was.  This meant ushers were left with the task of finding open seats for students who chose to come into the game right at kickoff, creating a much higher workload for the ushers than in previous seasons with assigned seats. 
i witnessed people walk into their assigned section, wander up and down trying to find a seat and eventually give up and walk out of the stadium. This is an inexcusable failure of the system. if a student paid for a ticket, he or she should be able to have a seat, not have to hunt for over five minutes to try to find a row to cram into, and maybe get frustrated enough to leave the stadium altogether. 
secondly, looking around the stu­dent section, i found sophomores that i recognized sitting on the border of the junior and senior sections. not to point them out, but this raises another flag with the current system. previously, if one wanted to try to sneak up and get a better seat, one did so at the risk of the owner of the seat entering the stadium, calling him or her out and forcing him or her to move. 
even with the colored ticket booklet system, it is quite easy for a student to move about in the student section, and with no reason to ask a student to see his or her booklet to see if he or she is sitting in the appropriate seat, it makes it very easy for students to cheat the sys­tem and sneak over into sections they are not supposed to be in. 
i feel that the new policy fell short on its promise to “allow the most passion­ate fans to sit closest to the field, giving our team a louder, more intimidating home field advantage.” even if a larger majority of the “most passionate fans” got to sit “closest to the field,” i do not believe the stadium was any louder than in seasons past. 
The new policy also created problems which did not exist under the previ­ous seating policy of assigned seats, the negative side effects of which far outweighed any marginal benefit the policy did have on stadium atmosphere. whether or not the old policy of as­signed seats is the perfect system is not the reason for this viewpoint. The point is that the current system is flawed, more so than the previous system, and needs to be addressed. 
Peter Hall is a junior studying finance and applied computational mathematics. He can be reached at phall5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
A whole new world 
Amanda Peña 
The bubble 

exposure to situations where one is vulnerable and uncomfortable can often enhance one’s perspective on various life issues. This summer, the Kellogg institute gave me a unique opportunity to travel outside of the united states for the first time to cochabamba, bolivia. my transition from “first” to “developing” world was only temporary. however, i have been deeply humbled and forever changed by my experiences in the country that challenged my personal and profes­sional development. 
at first, i was shocked by how similar cochabamba was to my hometown in los angeles — high automobile traf­fic, an abundance of restaurants and street carts, smartphones and casual dress styles. i was perplexed by how this country could be considered de­veloping if it seemed almost like living in the u.s. my preconceived notions about bolivia were very ignorant and naïve; all of my prior research had painted a vastly different picture of the country. 
it wasn’t until i took a trip out to one of bolivia’s rural districts with my organization when i realized what “development” actually meant and how experiencing discomfort 
Robert Alvarez 
man on a nag 

last wednesday, aug. 28, was the 50th anniversary of martin luther King’s march on washington and “i have a dream speech”. 
unfortunately, in these 50 elapsing years, his dream has died. 
i’m not merely stating that we haven’t realized his dream. That much is painfully obvious. it is hard for “little black boys and black girls” to “join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and broth­ers” in alabama when the average black american attends a school that is only 29 percent white, schools which typically receive less resources than schools where whites are the majority (economic policy institute). 
it is harder still to claim that “free­dom is ringing” from “every moun­tainside” when more than 60 percent of the us prison population is an eth­nic or racial minority and they make up only 40 percent of the total popu­lation (bureau of Justice statistics). it is easy to forget as well that dr. King’s march on washington was for jobs and a living wage as well as freedom, yet today wages have flatlined since the 1970s while production has dou­bled (bureau of labor statistics). 
and vulnerability can alter your perspective. 
imagine a life without electricity, drinkable water or automobiles. you use a hole in the ground as a makeshift toilet and you work in the fields from the age of five. your eight-year-old son slaughters the livestock and your thirteen-year-old daughter already has a baby. That is a typical story for most families living in the rural municipal­ity of morochata, bolivia. For them, those circumstances do not infringe on having a happy and complete life. 
For nine weeks i interned at el centro de capacitación y asesoramiento multidisciplinario (cecam), an organization in bolivia that helps develop communities with few-to-no resources. among their initiatives, their eco-casa campaign intrigued me most and gave me an avenue to complete a huge project. 
The eco-casa campaign produces solar cookers, energy-efficient stoves/ ovens and dry-composting toilets for impoverished families in morochata to reduce health and environmental issues in the area. because cecam is a fledgling ngo, they have few econom­ic resources to produce these appli­ances at a low enough cost for families to invest in. 
i fundraised over $4,000 to open a non-profit restaurant to gener­ate eco-casa project funds for the organization. on the surface, our res­taurant project’s success may seem to have been the highlight of my summer, but in reality it was my struggles and the lessons they taught me that i am most proud of. 
i had never understood what living with a scarcity of resources actually meant, and when i visited morochata, i struggled with fetching water, hiking through the mountains for hours to reach the nearest house and squatting over a hole in the ground to use the bathroom. it was the hardest thing i had ever done, and watching children of roughly seven years old herding sheep and cows ripped my heart out. 
after interviewing one family, the Fernandez family, in their tiny, adobe shack, i was served the biggest slice of humble pie. They prepared dinner for our group — corn and meat (from their freshly slaughtered cow) — and invited us into their home. They could not fathom a life without laboring in the fields, nor did they understand what more a person could need besides their family, a roof over their heads and food in their bellies. To me, it seemed like they simply lived to survive. but to the Fernandez’s, i was the one who didn’t understand how to live. 
The thought perplexed me and i be­gan to reflect on my own life. what do i want to do with my future, who do i hope to become, why am i interested 

reawakening the dream 
no, dr. King’s dream was never realized. but that was okay, as long as people continued to dream and act upon that dream. i’m saying that we, as a nation, have stopped dreaming. 
when we dream, we create whole new worlds within the realms of our minds that are contrary to our every­day reality. This does not mean, how­ever, that the dream cannot become reality. This is the mental leap that drives dr. King’s oratory: That his dream is not yet reality, but only not yet. america simply needs to decide, “yes, this is the reality that we want.” once that affirmation is made, work can begin to realize that dream. 
however, if one looks at modern america, one would see that we have stopped viewing reality as malleable. we are no longer a nation of idealism but a nation of “realism.” somewhere in the past 50 years we have become convinced of some kind of invisible, external reality that binds us, that determines our path as a nation. we have become receptors of real­ity rather than creators of it. perhaps this change has occurred because our reality just seems too big and be­yond us for us to change. or perhaps, more insidiously, we are comfortable with this reality. we are content with our bubble worlds and our bubble lives, as long as our bubbles are not popped to let unwanted reality creep in. 
our public discourse is indicative of this omnipresent and omnipotent reality. Far too often our public dis­course alludes to “reality” or to “the way things are.” we have created so many sacred cows in society, whose values are assumed as self-evident, that not only is honest dialogue not possible, but there is literally nothing left that is not a third rail of politics, besides the renaming of another post office. 
This dialogue is not dialogue at all, for dialogue is transformative by nature, but a reinforcement of the status quo. rather, when we meet to discuss together where we have been and where we are going, it should always be with an ideal in mind. The ideal is first object of any dialogue along these lines. without an ideal of “how things should be,” how will we ever know where to go? 
we now need to have this discus­sion. we need to ask ourselves, “in what kind of world do we want to live?” then, “what is the govern­ment’s and our own role in achiev­ing that world?” and finally, “what needs to change so our current real­ity becomes our dream?” but above all else, in this dialogue we need to be idealists. not idealists in the in development? in the end, i found myself more confused and depressed than when i started. To my friends and family back in the u.s., i was doing big things and changing the world, but in bolivia, i was just a small nobody visiting the country. by indulging in another culture’s rich history and ex­otic landscapes, and fostering close relationships with others, i found new interests and experiences that changed my worldview significantly. limiting my access to widely-available internet and the american working culture taught me to slow down and take the time to smell the roses. 
it is often the case that we go through life performing the same, mundane activities simply because we feel we have to, and many people never discover their passions or time to enjoy their life. sometimes we need a magic carpet to take us beyond the walls in our life to experience a new world that motivates us to become better people. Find your magic carpet and don’t be afraid to enjoy the view from beyond the walls. 
Amanda Peña is a junior sustainable development studies major with a poverty studies minor. She can be contacted at apena4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
demagogic sense which is a kind of narcissism, but idealists in the pursuit of truth, no matter the form or the source. every american is a constitutive part of america and as such forms a constitutive part of our dialogue. any vision for the future that leaves behind one of these parts is not worth pursuing. 
dreaming is what has defined america since its founding. The first settlers of our nation came to the “new world” for the precise reason that they had a dream of a world different from their old, and upon this new continent they found their canvas. To them, reality seemed emi­nently changeable. all they needed to do was make the radical break from their old reality — in their case a journey across the atlantic — and decide to live in a new way. They had a dream. we have that same capacity, to make the radical break from our stifling reality and live in a new way. but first we have to begin dreaming. 
Robert Alvarez is a a senior political science major living in Zahm House. He welcomes all dialogue on the viewpoints he expresses. He can be reached at ralvare4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene writer 
For fans of rap collective odd Future wolf gang Kill Them all (oFwgKTa), rapper earl sweatshirt, whose real name is Thebe neruda Kgositsile, has al­ways been the longtime standout of the group. of course, there’s Tyler, the creator and loud, out­spoken leader of the odd Future pack, but earl is easily the bet­ter lyricist, casually rattling off lines that blew everyone’s mind in his 2010 mixtape, “earl,” at the young age of 16. 
but then, Thebe disappeared for a while. when fans and the media alike started asking about him, his odd Future friends didn’t give any specifics on his sudden disappearance. rumors that he was being “held captive” by his mother began circulat­ing, and shirts reading “Free earl” started appearing at odd Future concerts. Finally, it was discovered in 2012 that earl was spending time in a somoan re­form school (yes, you read that correctly) at the request of his mother, though the details were sketchy. 
no matter the story behind his disappearance, there is no question that earl kept writing during his time away from the public eye. he returned in early 2012 and has been unleashing impressive verses ever since. after he signed a record deal, re­leased several of his own tracks and appeared on odd Future al­bums in the last year, the young rapper finally released his much-anticipated studio debut album, “doris,” this august. 
when listening to “doris” for the first time, it becomes clear that earl put plenty of time into the album. each of the 15 tracks is considerably more produced than anything else the artist has released himself. but the level of production “doris” ex­udes should be no surprise—the album boasts an incredible line­up of producers and guest art­ists including Frank ocean, mac miller, The alchemist, rZa and, of course, Tyler, the creator. 


“doris” is so full of guest art­ists, however, that at times, earl gets lost altogether. “sasquatch” sounds more like a Tyler, the creator track as Tyler’s verse drowns out earl’s. similarly, the album’s opening track is “pre,” which functions more as an unimpressive three minute long exhibition of Frank ocean’s cousin, sK laflare than any­thing else. but moving on from this curious choice for track one, “doris” turns to “burgundy,” a confessional, self-conscious song characteristic of the major­ity of the album — earl is ques­tioning his motives, his fame and his lifestyle. 
The remaining tracks on “doris” give earl a chance to analyze his feelings, as in “and i don’t know why it’s difficult to admit that i miss you … and if i hurt you i’m sorry, the music makes me dismissive” on the track, “sunday”, and other times cynically dismiss his problems, like when Tyler shouts in one track, “don’t nobody care how you feel, we want raps.” 
he is constantly self-conscious and self-deprecating, but in a way that doesn’t sound like a friend fishing for compliments. each track is poignant and hon­est, taking on critics, the me­dia and himself. a few standout tracks really make “doris” ex­ceptional. “hive” shows off earl’s lyrical abilities in an impressive second verse and features vince staples, a long beach native who sounds uncannily like his fellow long beach rapper, snoop lion. “chum,” the album’s first single, is a poetic examination of his upbringing and disappearance. 
“hoarse” is produced by the hip-hop instrumentalist trio badbadnotgood and is a subtle highlight on the album, fea­turing one of my favorite lines, “eating like the kids when you take them off ritalin/Throwing temper tantrums at the window of your whip again.” 
The critiques of “doris” i’ve heard the most are that the al­bum moves too slowly or that it all sounds the same. sure, there are no slow jams, no upbeat singles begging for remixes and no songs you’d ever throw on at a party. This is approaching the album from the wrong way. “doris” isn’t boring — it’s consis­tent. sure, it may be Thebe spit­ting line after line of verse with his same signature dark, self-reflective angst, but with lyrics as good as earl’s, why would you want anything else? 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
“Doris” 
Earl Sweatshirt 
Label: Columbia Records Tracks: “Hive,” “Chum” If you like: OFWGKTA, Tyler, The 
Creator 



SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

worried about the plot of this film being ruined for you, just watch it. Kevin Noonan There’s four girls. Three of them, played by hudgens, ashley benson scene editor and rachel Korine (the director’s wife, mind you) are bad. gomez is 
good. we meet her at some kind of christian church group kind of 

It’s an age of superlatives. If you’re not the best ever, you’re the worst. If thing. her character’s name, by the way, is Faith. They named the reli­you’re not Daniel Day-Lewis, you’re Nicolas Cage. If you’re not a 4.0 stu-gious character “Faith.” not a joke. even then, i’m not sure it ranks as dent, you’re a hobo living under a bridge. In the spirit of buying into and one of the top 10 most irritating details of the movie. expounding upon possible social ills, Scene staffers will highlight the pop but then it turns out gomez is friends with the other three, and culture experience that was, for them, the WORST THING EVER IN EVER. hudgens and benson get high on cocaine and rob a local restaurant, First up, Scene Editor Kevin Noonan. driving away in a car that they stole and later burn. 
cut to st. petersburg, Fla. i don’t know a single person that’s ever 

i’ve encountered many terrible entertainment experiences in my gone to st. petersburg for spring break unless they were going to visit life. open mic stand up sets. high school black box theater shows with their grandparents, and they probably weren’t particularly pumped amateur improv at the intermission. sarah mclachlan’s commercials about it. (career). but whatever, they’re in st. petersburg. and oh man, so many par-
but just as there are no rainbows without rain, i never really under-ties. They’re drinking alcohol dressed in bikinis and people are doing stood what a truly horrific attempt at “entertainment” meant until i drugs. oh my. sat through all 93 minutes of the teeth-grinding, terrifying, atrocious but the social commentary doesn’t stop there. gomez calls her “spring breakers.” grandmother and tells her how spiritual her experience has been 
This isn’t even to say that i went into this movie with high expecta-(she’s lied to her family about what she’s doing for spring break, ob­
tions and was crushed by disappointment. viously, because they’re religious and they JusT wouldn’T have no. please don’t get that impression. undersTood), and the phone call is played over a montage of parties i could have walked into this movie believing it would be the new and drugs and people peeing on the sidewalk. 
undisputed worst movie of all time, in the vein of “The room.” i still it’s all very artistic. would have walked away wanting to join a monastery on an otherwise i know i’ve spent a lot of words getting this far, but i just want you to uninhabited pacific island in order to never come in contact with any-know that at this point we’re 20 or 30 minutes into the movie. also keep thing even remotely resembling “spring breakers.” in mind that by the time this movie came out, selena gomez’s mu-
let me give the context. sic was taking off, so a lot of the film’s marketing focused on her role. 
i thought about seeing this movie in theaters, but didn’t. it wasn’t be-That’s heavy-handed foreshadowing for her leaving this movie really, cause i didn’t want to pay for it. i get my ticket reimbursed through The really early on, but it’s still subtler than anything in “spring breakers.” observer when i review a movie (write for scene, free movies!). anyways, they get arrested, but James Franco bails them out. i 
so i wasn’t worried about the cost of the ticket. don’t have the strength of will to describe his appearance; google it. my concern was instead, “do i really want to waste an hour and a needless to say, he’s not a great guy. selena gomez isn’t cool with it; she half to two hours of my life to see this movie?” leaves. That means that 40 minutes into the movie, one of the only two 
college girls go on spring break. one of them is innocent, the other people i recognize by face walks out of the movie and doesn’t come ones — maybe not so much. James Franco is a rapper/drug dealer/bad back. dude with cornrows, a grill (the mouth kind, no word on the cooking shortly thereafter, Korine leaves. i honestly can’t remember a single kind) and all kinds of guns and clothes and whatnot. thing she says or does in this movie and had to look up the cast on 
i knew who James Franco was. i even like James Franco mostly, de-imdb to remember her character. spite his some of his questionable artistic choices. i knew who selena i’ll be honest, there’s like 30 to 40 minutes left in this movie still i’m gomez was. i was vaguely aware of vanessa hudgens from the “high pretty sure, but i’m done with it. i can go no further. it only gets worse school musical” movies. The rest of the cast and crew were lost on me from here. for the most part. This movie has been praised by some for its exploration of hedonism, 
i decided that no, i did not want to physically travel somewhere to see biting commentary on society and as a generally entertaining, satisfy-this movie, and would wait until it came out on netflix, on demand, ing film. redbox or something similar. it is none of those things. 
all of this is suffice to say, i didn’t expect much from this film. it is, quite plain and simply, the worst thing ever. 
but, and part of me doesn’t want to beat a dead horse, but the other part feels an obligation to society to make sure i don’t under-stress the Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu point. i got less than i expected.    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not 
here’s the movie. There will be spoilers ahead but if you’re really necessarily those of The Observer. 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

All hail the Pirates 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
baseball teams aren’t clinching playoff spots yet, but with two more wins the pirates clinch two other things: their first winning season since 1992 and some positive press for baseball. 
after monday’s 5-2 vic­tory over the brewers, pittsburgh’s record sits at 80­
57. The pirates have 25 games left and would have to lose every single one to post their 21st losing season in a row. 
i don’t want to call down a curse, but 25-game los­ing streaks don’t happen. everyone will agree, except the 1961 phillies, who tried really hard to make it hap­pen, but fell short at 23 games. 
unless the spirit of the ’61 phillies camps out at pnc park for the rest of the sea­son, the pirates should be safe. breaking the losing-season streak would be fun for pittsburgh fans, but the achievement could accom­plish more for baseball. 
baseball has always been exciting because of its tra­ditions and history, and america’s favorite pastime needs to return to those roots to make the steroid era a bad memory and not a re­curring nightmare. 
The pirates are an historic team that has a chance to rise again to prominence and remind fans of not only their own history, but also baseball’s. 
Forget alex rodriguez and think about bill mazeroski, instead. The hall of Fame second baseman won eight gold gloves while playing his entire career with the pirates from 1956 to 1972. mazeroski’s walk-off home run in game seven of the 1960 world series is the only walk-off ever hit in the his­tory of world series game seven’s and sealed the under­dog pirates’ triumph over the mighty yankees. 
Forget biogenesis and think of the 1979 “we are Family” pirates instead. on their way to a come-from-behind world series title, the pirates ad­opted sister sledge’s disco hit “we are Family” as the team theme song. hall of Fame outfielder and first baseman willie “pops” stargell led an energetic, quirky and memo­rable clubhouse. 
Think about honus wagner. The pirates short­stop from 1900 to 1917 be­came one of the five original inductees into the baseball hall of Fame in 1936. The famous T206 wagner base­ball card sold for $2.1 million in april and recalls a time when young fans collected cards from bubble gum packs and stuck them in bike spokes without knowing they would one day be valuable. 
remember roberto clemente. The hall of Fame right fielder won four bat­ting titles and 12 consecu­tive gold gloves during an 18-year career for the pirates. Fans admired him as a ball­player and a profoundly dedi­cated humanitarian. 
delve into other team’s histories and you’ll find many more great storylines, fantastic ballplayers, incred­ible people and amazing mo­ments. These stories are far more compelling than ryan braun’s. 
The steroid era will always stain baseball’s history, but cheating doesn’t have to become baseball’s heritage. baseball has a deeper, richer legend to draw on. 
breaking long-held records or streaks calls up memories of this legend. Tigers third basemen miguel cabrera did it last season when he became the first Triple crown winner since carl yastrzemski in 1967. 
suddenly, yastrzemski and his era entered the national sports conversation and con­tributed to the good press for baseball that cabrera start­ed. longtime fans started thinking about yastrzemski and remembering “how it was.” The pirates have the same opportunity to recreate visions of history. 
baseball has an opportu­nity to create new memories rooted in its legendary past, the past that made the game a proud cultural icon. but it only matters if the current generation of players dedi­cate themselves to restoring the game. 
i’m thinking about mike Trout, yasiel puig, bryce harper and the game’s other young ambassadors. history is what makes base­ball great, and these play­ers have a chance to make that true again with clean accomplishments. 
i’d like to thank the 2013 pittsburgh pirates for re­minding me and i hope they can spark something similar for other disillusioned fans. 
here’s to the pirates. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SWIMMING 
swimmer, 64, finishes historic journey 
Associated Press
    The clocks diana nyad uses to time her training swims show that she’s a slower swim­mer than she used to be. That’s only natural: at age 64, she ac­knowledges she is no longer the “thoroughbred stallion” she was “back in the day.” 
and yet, the endurance ath­lete says she felt stronger than ever when she completed her successful effort to become the first person to swim 110 miles from cuba to Florida without a shark cage. 
“now i’m more like a clydesdale: i’m a little thicker and stronger — literally stron­ger, i can lift more weights,” nyad told The associated press in a one-on-one inter­view Tuesday, a day after she finished her 53-hour, record-setting swim. 
“i feel like i could walk through a brick wall. ... i think i’m truly dead center in the prime of my life at 64.” 
nyad isn’t alone among ag­ing athletes who are dominat­ing their sports. 
earlier this year, 48-year-old bernard hopkins became the oldest boxer to win a major title, scoring a 12-round unani­mous decision over Tavoris cloud to claim the ibF light heavyweight championship. 
Tennis player martina navratilova played in the mixed doubles competition at wimbledon in her late 40s, and hockey legend gordie howe played in the nhl in his 50s. 
Thousands of u.s. athletes, including 60-year-old Kay glynn, also compete during the senior olympics. 
glynn, of hastings, iowa, has won six gold medals in pole vaulting at the senior olympics and set a new pole vaulting world record for her age in the 2011 national senior games. 
older athletes tend to find more success in endurance events than power events such as sprinting and other sports that rely on “fast-twitch” mus­cle fibers, which are more dif­ficult to preserve later in life, 

FOR SALE 
Irish Rules! @ teangaleanga.com A Grammar of Modern Irish @ Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
FOR RENT 
HOMES AVAILABLE FOR ND FOOTBALL: Please email for info and photos nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
noted wojtek chodzko-Zajko, a physiologist at the university of illinois urbana-champaign. 
but just because nyad was swimming rather than pound­ing her joints against the con­crete doesn’t mean she didn’t achieve a remarkable feat, chodzko-Zajko said. 
“This ultra, super-length swimming is brutal regard­less,” he said, adding that an­other reason athletes are able to endure is because they often train smarter and have a men­tal concentration that is well honed over decades. 
“she’s one of any number of people who are redefining what happens with aging,” said dr. michael J. Joyner, an anesthesi­ologist and exercise researcher at mayo clinic. 
“if you start with a high capacity, you have some re­serves,” Joyner said. “you can lose some absolute power, but what you lose in power you can make up for with experi­ence and strategy and better preparation.” 
nyad first attempted swim­ming from cuba to Florida at age 29 with a shark cage. she didn’t try again until 2011 when she was 61. 
she tried twice more in the past two years before begin­ning her fifth attempt saturday morning with a leap off the sea­wall of the hemingway marina into the warm waters off havana. she paused occasion­ally for nourishment, but never left the water until she reached the white sand beaches of the Keys and waded ashore. 
nyad says her age and matu­rity should not be discounted when measuring her most re­cent success. 
“it’s not so much the physi­cal,” she said. “To my mind all of us ... we mature emotionally ... and we get stronger mentally because we have a perspective on what this life is all about,” nyad said. 
“it’s more emotional. i feel calmer, i feel that the world isn’t going to end if i don’t make it. and i’m not so ego-involved: ‘what are people going to think of me?’” i’m really focused on why i want to do it.” 
australian susie maroney successfully swam the straits in 1997 at age 22 with a shark cage, which besides protection from the predators, has a draft­ing effect that pulls a swimmer along. 
in 2012, 49-year-old australian penny palfrey swam 79 miles toward Florida with­out a cage before strong cur­rents forced her to stop. This June, palfrey’s countrywoman chloe mccardel, 28, made it 11 hours and 14 miles before jelly­fish stings ended her bid. 
nyad admitted Tuesday that she was glad when mccardel didn’t make it before she had had a chance to, but she did add, to laughter from her team, that “i didn’t want her to get bitten by jellyfish or die or anything.” 
nyad said Tuesday that that she wasn’t finished with mara­thon swims. she plans to swim for 48 hours straight, accompa­nied by celebrities swimming laps alongside her, in a spe­cially designed swimming pool that will be erected in new york city next month to raise money for hurricane sandy survivors. 
although the swimmer in­sists she wasn’t trying to prove anything as a 64-year-old — “i didn’t do this because i was in my 60s. i just happened to be in my 60s,” she says — she ac­knowledges that her success is having an impact, “not just on people of my generation but on younger people.” 
“i have a godson who’s 14 and he texted me yesterday and said, ‘i’m never in my life again going to call someone in their 60s old. it’s over. you just proved that youth doesn’t have anything to do with age.’” 
and at one point during her ap interview Tuesday, the bronzed, muscular athlete couldn’t resist sharing a mes­sage of encouragement and solidarity with those of her generation: 
“baby boomer power!” she declared, with a triumphant fist pump. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Private Voice Lessons for Children 
WANTED 
and Adults. 574-256-9836 
ND alum seeks 2 tickets for “Any other meaningless con-Oklahoma game. Phone 319-541-spiracy theories?” “Yes. Did you 2099 or 319-337-2244 know Gogurt is just yogurt?”
 “Hey. They laughed at Louis 
PERSONAL 
Armstrong  when  he  said  he  was  
gonna  go  to  the  moon.  Now  
Music  Lessons:  Guitar,  Bass,  he’s up there, laughing at them.”  
Mandolin,  Dulcimer,  Autoharp,  
Ukulele.  574-256-9836  Name the Quotes at ghadley@nd.edu  



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2013 | The observer 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Hewitt finally falls at Open 
Associated Press 
new yorK — rejuvenated at age 32, lleyton hewitt was two points away from reaching the u.s. open quarterfinals for the first time since 2006. 
a champion at Flushing meadows a dozen years ago, hewitt could not close out Tuesday’s five-setter against 21st-seeded mikhail youzhny in the fourth round. 
“it’s one of the hardest games to win — the last one,” hewitt said. 
dropping the last five games of the back-and-forth, near­ly four-hour match, a fading hewitt lost to youzhny 6-3, 3-6, 6-7 (3), 6-4, 7-5. 
how close was it? hewitt won more total points, 146-145. wearing his trademark back­ward-turned white baseball hat, he got within two points of winning at 5-2, then served for the match at 5-3. 
“i left it all out there,” he said. “There’s not a whole heap more i could have done.” 
at 2-all in the fifth set, hewitt tore some skin off his left elbow while diving to the court for a shot. after youzhny won the point to get to 15-30 on hewitt’s serve, play was halted for a medical timeout while a trainer treated the bloody scrape on the australian’s arm. 
Two-time major champion hewitt had been 7-0 in fourth-round matches in new york, but he hadn’t even been that far in seven years. a former no. 1-ranked player who is currently 66th after a series of foot and hip injuries, hewitt last got to the quarterfinals of any grand slam tournament at wimbledon in 2009. 
asked whether he could see himself still competing at the u.s. open in three or four years’ time, hewitt shook his head and replied: “i don’t know, mate. no idea.” 
youzhny’s best grand slam showings have come at Flushing meadows, where he made the semifinals in 2006 and 2010 — and also lost in the first round each of the past two years. 
The 31-year-old russian will face no. 1 novak djokovic in the quarterfinals. djokovic won 45 of 53 service points while eliminating 43rd-ranked marcel granollers 6-3, 6-0, 6-0 in a grand total of only 79 min­utes Tuesday. 
“First of all, i need to recover after this,” youzhny said, add­ing that it will be “really tough to beat” djokovic. 
“but you never know,” youzhny continued. “we will see.” 
he praised hewitt as a “great, fighting player ... who is fight­ing every point, every match.” 
every time it appeared one man or the other was pulling away, the other got right back into it. 
hewitt trailed by a set and a break before going ahead 2-1 in sets. Then he grabbed 11 of the first 12 points to start the fourth, going up 3-0 and 4-1. but youzhny responded with a six-game run. in the fifth set, youzhny broke in the first game by making a long sprint, then sliding wide of the dou­bles alley, for a backhand win­ner. sticking to the match’s pattern, hewitt broke right back. 
in 80-degree heat, two of 12 active men who have made it at least as far as the quarterfinals at all four major tennis tour­naments appeared content to hang out at the baseline for 

paid adverTisemenT 

lengthy exchanges, often slic­ing backhands or simply plac­ing forehands in the middle of the court. points would last 10, 20, 30 strokes. 
“obviously,” hewitt said, “could have gone either way.” 
with hewitt serving for the win at 5-3, youzhny earned a break point by stretching for a volley winner with both play­ers up at the net. hewitt then missed a backhand to make it 5-4. That was part of a stretch in which youzhny took 12 of 13 points. when hewitt pushed a forehand long to get broken again, youzhny led 6-5, and there would be no more shifts. 
hewitt’s renaissance at this tournament included a five-set, four-hour victory over 2009 u.s. open champion and sixth-seeded Juan martin del potro in the second round. 
“Took a lot out of me,” hewitt said. 
That was the first time he had beaten a player ranked in the top 10 at Flushing meadows since upsetting 14-time major champion pete sampras in the 2001 final. 
perhaps because of name recognition, hewitt generally received more of the crowd’s support at louis armstrong stadium. 
when youzhny broke to 4-3 in the fourth set with a backhand winner, he held his arms wide and palms up and screamed, “come on!” 
“i understand. it was fine. The crowd was not against me. it was for lleyton more,” youzhny said during an on-court interview. 
Then, thanking those spec­tators who were pulling for him, youzhny said, “maybe your power gave me the chance to beat lleyton today.” 
NFL 
browns agree to deal with cundiff 
Associated Press 
cleveland — billy cundiff’s last kicking job with the browns was tempo­rary. he’s got a more perma­nent gig now. 
cundiff reached agreement with cleveland on Tuesday, filling an unexpected hole the browns created with less than a week left before their season opener against the miami dolphins. 
it’s cundiff’s second stint with the browns. he was with the club in 2009, when he made all six of his field-goal attempts while filling in for phil dawson, who was side­lined with a calf injury. 
cundiff replaces the de­pendable dawson, the best field-goal kicker in browns history and second-leading career scorer who didn’t re­sign after last season and is now with san Francisco. 
The 33-year-old cundiff auditioned Tuesday for the browns along with giorgio Tavecchio, who was released by green bay last week. The browns have been looking for a kicker since terminat­ing veteran shayne graham’s contract and releasing rookie brandon bogotay last week­end as they cut their roster to 53. 
To open a roster spot for cundiff, the browns placed offensive guard Jason pinkston on the short-term injured reserve list. pinkston sustained a high ankle sprain on aug. 15 against detroit and is still in a walking boot. he’s eligible to return to practice following cleveland’s oct. 20 game against green bay and is eligible to play in the nov. 3 game against baltimore. 
Four years ago, cundiff picked up the slack when dawson was hurt. he ap­peared in five games and made the winning field goal against buffalo in week 5 as the browns beat the bills 6-3. 
cundiff, who has appeared in 106 career nFl games for five teams, made the pro bowl with baltimore in 2010. he made 26 of 29 field goals and led the league with 40 touch-backs that season. 
he wasn’t as consistent the following years, and is per­haps best remembered for missing a potential game-tying 32-yard field goal in the closing seconds of the 2012 aFc championship against new england. 
cundiff was released by the ravens in 2012 and kicked in five games for washington last season, making 7 of 12 field-goal tries. he went to training camp with the new york Jets this summer and made all three of his field goals during the exhibition season but was released on aug. 28. 
cundiff has connected on 139 of 184 (75.5 percent) ca­reer field-goal attempts. 
The browns relied heavily last season on dawson, who made 29 of 31 kicks, includ­ing all seven from beyond 50 yards. 
cleveland had planned to try out veteran dan carpenter, but he chose to sign with the buffalo bills after rookie kick­er dustin hopkins was in­jured in practice on monday. 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles fall to late comeback by Kalamazoo 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
The belles won their first two games but dropped three straight to lose the match 3-2 against their first conference opponent, Kalamazoo, on Tuesday night in Kalamazoo, mich. 
despite outhitting the hornets (5-0, 1-0 miaa), saint mary’s (1-4, 0-1 miaa) could not close enough games to win the match. 
The belles, however, started off successfully. after snag­ging an early 5-1 lead, they won the first game, 26-24. 
The belles led 20-18 late in the game before Kalamazoo strung together six straight unanswered points on the strength of four kills. a kill by hornets junior middle hitter Kelsey hill made the score 24­18 in favor of Kalamazoo. 
Facing match point, saint mary’s rallied. an attack er­ror by hill ended Kalamazoo’s scoring streak and turned the ball over to the belles, who an­swered the hornets with a six-point tear of their own, while facing and breaking match point three times. 
belles coach Toni elyea said the offense really clicked in the first two games because of consistent hitting and the set­ting performance of freshman setter claire mcmillan. 
“[Junior middle hitter] melanie Kuczek did an amaz­ing job hitting above .400,” elyea said. “claire had 53 set assists as a freshman. That’s spectacular.” 
Campbell 
conTinued From page 16 
“she had a great fresh­man year, no doubt about it,” holt said. “if she can just maintain her level of play and stay healthy, she’ll have a great year.” 
over the summer, campbell played in the usga women’s amateur championship. after a tough first round, she ral­lied on day Two to finish just one stroke short of the cut. still, campbell gained more experience in champi­onship settings, which holt thinks will serve campbell well. 
“There were a lot of posi­tives to take away from that,” holt said. “she got some tough breaks in the first round, but any time you can play in a usga event, that’s a great experience.” 
campbell and the irish begin their fall season at the iu Fall Kickoff in noblesville, ind., on sunday at the purgatory golf club. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
saint mary’s opened the sec­ond game with an eight-point run before cruising to a 25-10 victory won by a spike from junior outside hitter brooke Fowler. Kalamazoo landed only two kills to the belles’ 13. service or attack errors by the belles provided the other eight points for the hornets. 
elyea said the defense helped the offense dominate. 
“we had great defense which enabled us to set up our offense well,” elyea said. 
but Kalamazoo bounced back in the third game to out-spike the belles 20 to 15 and win 26-24. 
games four and five were also closely contested, two-point games. 
after winning game four, 26-24, the hornets struck early to snag game five 19-17. saint mary’s clawed back from an early deficit to a 17-17 tie, but could not finish the deal. sophomore outside hitter nya greenstone sealed the game for Kalamazoo. 
elyea said she was not dis­appointed in her team’s ef­fort against such a talented offense. 
“Kalamazoo is an extremely tough, well-balanced attack­ing team, and we played ex­tremely well,” elyea said. “we came up with a lot of plays when we really needed it, and we only lost by two points. it could have gone either way.” 
on defense, junior libero meredith mersits (23), soph­omore outside hitter Katie hecklinski (20) and grady 
(15) propelled the team with double-digit digs. elyea praised her defense. 
“our defense did a phenom­enal job tonight,” elyea said. “we had four players in double digit digs, and leading the way was meredith mersits with 23. Katie hecklinski, who’s only a three-rotation girl had 20. we just had an amazing match defensively as a team.” 

schneider led the belles with 21 kills, and greenstone powered the hornets with 20 kills. 
despite the loss, elyea said she is ready to prepare for saint mary’s next opponent, albion. 
“it’s early in the season, ear­ly in the system, and we have a lot to work on,” elyea said. 
“we’re looking forward to get­ting in the gym tomorrow be­cause we have another tough match coming up against albion.” 
next up for the belles is their home opener Friday at 7 p.m. versus albion. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 





ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTMEBER 4, 2013 | The observer 


Sachire 
conTinued From page 16 
tennis], which is why i came back and became a coach.” 
Throughout his career, sachire won 16 doubles tour­naments and two singles ti­tles on the aTp Futures and challengers tours. Those vic­tories remain the highlights of his career, especially the challengers victories. 
“There’s nothing better than on a sunday afternoon when you’ve conquered a pro­fessional event,” sachire said. “Those were the moments that i felt it was really clicking and i felt my career was going somewhere.” 
after retiring from the pro ranks in 2004, sachire be­came a coach and worked for a year as an assistant at baylor. he was immediately success­ful, helping baylor to a top-five national ranking, a berth in the ncaa semifinals and a conference championship. 
“i knew i wanted to be a coach pretty soon after i came to notre dame,” sachire said. “my dad was a high school coach and my parents were both teachers so athletics and academics were important to me, as well as having the chance to form well-rounded individuals.” 
soon, sachire’s connections to notre dame led him back to serve as the assistant to bayliss. in 2006, sachire mar­ried cindy harding, a for­mer irish cheerleader, in the basilica of the sacred heart on campus. 
after two years, bayliss promoted sachire to associ­ate head coach, and together the pair coached the irish to numerous conference cham­pionships and ncaa champi­onship appearances. 
in addition, recruiting has reached new heights with every class since sachire’s return ranked in the top 15 nationally. when bayliss an­nounced his retirement mid­way through last season, sachire was immediately named his successor. 
now, as the irish enter the competitive acc, sachire isn’t too worried about step­ping up and leading. 
“i’m coming in with maybe a little more authority in the new role,” sachire said. “but at the same time i’m going to try to be myself because i think that’s how i’ll be best received by the players.” 
sachire and the irish be­gin their season at the oFcc invitational at olympia Fields, ill., on sept. 13. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTMEBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 





Football 
conTinued From page 16 
who’s one, who’s two, who’s three, four, five,” Kelly said. “it’s going to take us a few weeks be­fore we get to that.” 
mcdaniel led the crew with 12 carries but it was carlisle who topped the box score with 68 yards. carlisle, the usc transfer, averaged nearly 10 yards per carry and opened the game with a 45-yard run. 
“none of these guys have a lot of experience,” Kelly said. “so it’s going to take us some time to kind of work through it. we’ve got some growing pains a little bit at the position, but they’re all gifted players, but i think it’s going to take us a little time as we grow. we’re willing to play them all and we’re will­ing to take all of them and their strengths and try to make it work at that position.” 
atkinson, who is listed at the top of the notre dame depth chart, was the favorite enter­ing the season to start in the backfield after seeing limited playing time in 2012 behind the now-departed Theo riddick and cierre wood. atkinson notched 34 yards on eight car­ries in the season opener. 
Kelly said riddick was the go-to guy for the irish to finish out close games last season, but is still looking for one of the five backs to emerge as the workhorse. 
Preparing for Lewan 
notre dame and its vaunted defensive line will lock horns with probable first-round pick and michigan redshirt senior left tackle Taylor lewan on saturday. 
lewan has started 36 games 
— including 29 straight — at left tackle and will try to be­come michigan’s ninth offen­sive lineman to start all four seasons. 
Kelly said lewan’s unique prowess at tackle will force the irish to contain michigan run­ning backs menton the edge and force them inside. 
“certainly we’re not going to be able to duplicate what he does during the week rela­tive to the demo squad,” Kelly said. “we have to do a great job of keeping the ball inside our defense. 
“sometimes you have to scheme it to make sure that we do that. he’s that kind of player.” 
irish junior defensive line­man stephon Tuitt will be matched up with lewan often saturday, but Kelly said the front calls will dictate just how often. 
Updates on Daniels, Zaire 
Kelly said junior receiver davaris daniels would return to practice Tuesday. 
Freshman quarterback malik 


Zaire, who missed the Temple paid adverTisemenT game with mononucleosis, has not been cleared to play yet, Kelly said. 
Irish constant in AP poll 
notre dame stayed put at no. 14 in the latest associated press (ap) poll released Tuesday af­ternoon. in the usa Today coaches’ poll, the irish dropped two spots from no. 11 to no. 13. 
michigan remained at no. 17 in both polls and the wolverines are three-point favorites over the irish. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2013 | The observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: shaun white, 27; garrett hedlund, 29; paz de la huerta, 29; charlie sheen, 48. 
Happy Birthday: a change in the way you handle your money or how much you have is heading your way. Keep personal finances a secret to avoid having others take advantage of your generosity. invest in your skills and knowledge. This is a year to excel, and spending time and money on self-improvement will pay off. your numbers are 4, 13, 17, 21, 29, 34, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take action if something isn’t going right. do what­ever you can to bring about a better understanding with regard to an important partnership. be willing to make changes if it will help the situation. romance will enhance your love life.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make sure that everything is in order at home. discuss any problems you face with friends, relatives or colleagues before the situation heats up. being proactive will encourage others to help find workable solutions. work as a team player. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): what you do to help others will bring you great satis­faction. Take action in good faith and you will counter the negative criticism you face from those who don’t like change. you can make a difference if you follow your heart. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): discuss private matters and you will get answers that will help you pursue new avenues. don’t live in the past or try to change the impossible. Take the road less traveled and enjoy the ride. make peace and keep moving. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): passion, excitement and making changes to your life will boost your confidence and bring favorable results. opportunities that are within reach and a change of location or a trip will encourage you to explore new people, places and pastimes. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): apply what you know to a worthwhile cause. your abil­ity to act on behalf of others will enhance your reputation and your prospects for future opportunities. don’t be shy when your talent can be put to good use.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):  Keep life simple and your plans moderate. don’t let the past discourage you or the future overwhelm you. balance will be required to make the best choices. don’t let anyone push you in a direction you don’t want to go. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t get angry; get even. success is the sweet­est revenge, so get down to business and do whatever it takes to eliminate your competition. use your keen vision and ability to add extra detail and you will excel masterfully. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put some thought into ways you can earn more cash or turn something you have into a profit on the open market. bring about change that will enhance your home life and ensure that you connect with people you find exhilarating. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): consider ways to add value to your home, your in­vestments or even a hobby you enjoy doing. a look at how you have excelled in the past and what you enjoy doing most will result in a plan that has potential. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll have to deal with institutions, government agencies or authority figures in such a way that you don’t compromise your freedom to move forward with your personal goals. don’t let anger lead to a poor decision. Think before you act.  

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): let your intuition guide you. you will pick up on any nuance portrayed, allowing you to make an offer that is too hard to refuse. enjoy your ability to play the game of life to the max. gains are within reach... 

Birthday Baby: you are adaptable, curious and intelligent. you are impulsive and fun loving. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 






make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Irish look for clarity in crowded backfield 
Talented group to compete for carries 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
in its 28-6 win over Temple, no. 14 notre dame played five different running backs and racked up 188 yards on the ground. 
irish coach brian Kelly said it was still too early in the season to say how the five-man rota­tion — consisting of juniors george atkinson, amir carlisle and cam mcdaniel, and fresh­men greg bryant and Tarean Folston — will shake out. 
“i thought they all went in there and showed that they can help us, but we’re not going to answer the questions about JOHN NING | The Observer 

Irish freshman running back Tarean Folston sheds a Temple defender during the fourth quarter of Notre Dame’s 28-6 victory over the Owls on see FooTball PAGE 14 Saturday. Folston is one of two freshmen running backs who will compete for carries for the Irish this Saturday night at Michigan. 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Former player takes helm 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
succeeding bobby bayliss, one of the winningest coaches in collegiate tennis history, is not easy. but new coach ryan sachire, a former irish stand­out, is confident his team can move forward without their former leader. 
“it’s an intimidating role to be in,” sachire said of follow­ing bayliss. “coach bayliss had a huge impact on me and my actions because he coached me, so there will be some similarities. but at the same time, we won’t be think­ing what would [bayliss] do, but instead what i think is best for the program.” 
of course, sachire is fa­miliar with notre dame ten­nis. in addition to serving as an assistant coach for seven years, sachire, a member of the class of 2000, is still one of the most decorated play­ers in program history. he led the irish to four bids to the ncaa tournament and was twice named a big east academic all-star. by the time he graduated, sachire had been named an all­american three times and won the Ted a. Farnsworth/ iTa national senior player of the year award. 
“notre dame was the best four years of my life,” sachire said. “i couldn’t have asked for anything more from my professors, my teammates, coach bayliss and my assis­tant coaches, as an athlete and a student.” 

after he earned his de­gree in economics, sachire played tennis profession­ally for five years, ranking among the top 35 americans at his peak before he retired in 2004. Though sachire says he enjoyed his time among the pros, he prefers college tennis. 

“i’ve always been motivated by being part of a team and doing the best i can for some­thing bigger than myself, especially at notre dame,” sachire said. “on the tour it’s all about you and it’s more difficult. it’s an adjustment … and i knew my heart was always on the college level [of 
see sachire PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
campbell seizes leadership role 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
sophomore Talia campbell will look to continue her suc­cess after winning her first collegiate tournament at the big east championship last year as the irish move to the highly competitive acc. 
as a top-10 ranked recruit coming out of high school, campbell formed one half of a potent freshman duo last year with lindsey weaver. Their success as a tandem culminated at the big east championships, when weaver and campbell earned co-medalist honors and broke the championship record by three strokes. 
without weaver, who trans­ferred back home to arizona, irish coach susan holt will look to campbell to fulfill a leadership role as one of the top golfers on the team. 
“she’s played a lot of com­petitive golf throughout her junior career and she’s a competitive person,” holt said. “she’ll be able to pro­vide a lot of leadership just through her work ethic and competitiveness. she’s a good role model.” 
That competitiveness was on full display last year as campbell played both the big east championship and the ncaa regional round while ill with mononucleosis. notre dame still managed to lead the team to a conference title and finish tied for 15th at the regional round. 
“i don’t think many people know this, but she was very sick towards the end of last year,” holt said. “i think [the fact that she played] says a lot about her willingness to compete and be there for her team.” 
This dedication has earned campbell the respect and ad­miration of her teammates and coach, as well as a tight bond over long hours on the course. 
“we all respect her as a per­son and as a player, for her hard work,” holt said. “but we also say she can be a little sassy. she’s got a quick wit. really, she’s fun to be around and we enjoy her company.” 
holt has high expectations for campbell in the acc as one of notre dame’s top re­turning golfers, along with junior ashley armstrong. last year, campbell improved her finish in each tournament until the ncaa regional. campbell also earned all-big east honors. This year, holt is confident campbell can con­tinue that success. 
see campbell PAGE 12 




