ThE IndEpEndEnT To unCoVER nEwSpapER SERVIng ThE TRuTh noTRE damE and and REpoRT SaInT maRy’S IT aCCuRaTEly 

VolumE 46, ISSuE 122 | TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 2013 | ndSmCobSERVER.Com 
Bombings at Boston Marathon cause chaos 
Students, alumnus with ties to Boston reflect on bombing 
By MARISA IATI 
assistant managing Editor 
Senior betsy mcgovern es­caped danger monday afternoon by approximately 15 minutes. 
mcgovern completed the boston marathon shortly before two bombs exploded near the fin­ish line on boylston St. at 2:45 p.m. The explosions killed at least three people and injured more than 140, according to the associated press. 
“I was probably a block away, and I picked up my bag and I heard it,” mcgovern said. “I heard the first one and it didn’t really reg­ister. … I think I was just so tired that I didn’t really think about it. 
“It became pretty chaotic, and then I noticed the ambulances starting to come, and you heard the police kind of go over there.” 
Two other undetonated bombs were found near the end of the marathon’s 26.2-mile course, ac­cording to the associated press. 
mcgovern, who is from approx­imately 20 miles north of boston, said she was on the phone with her father when she heard the sec­ond explosion. She met up with her other family members who had been waiting at the finish line earlier, and they immediately got in the car and left. 
“we just feel really, really for­tunate that I finished earlier and that they weren’t around there when the bombs went off,” mcgovern said. “I was lucky be­cause I was picking up my bag, I had my cell phone, but there were a lot of people who hadn’t picked up their bags yet. So you can just 
see maRaThon PAGE 5 




ND students attend prayer service for victims of marathon 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
assistant managing Editor 
more than 800 miles from the site of monday’s bombings at the boston marathon, the notre dame community gathered in solidarity with the attack’s victims during an evening prayer service in geddes hall. 
freshman Jake grefenstette helped organize the prayer ser­vice in our lady of mercy Chapel on monday evening. The service drew approximately 90 students to the chapel fewer than 12 hours after the first explosion in boston. 
“There’s definitely an expec­tation at this university that we respond to things with faith, and it was definitely incredible to see that happen here,” grefenstette said. 
grefenstette said the numbers exceeded what the organizers had expected. 
“Some people were worried if we were even going to be able to fill the chapel, but we ended up having to go and tap every room surrounding the chapel to pull in chairs, and we had people stand­ing and sitting on the ground,” he said. 
Student body president alex Coccia said he hoped all in atten­dance would reflect on the events and the content of university president fr. John Jenkins’ state­ment, which he issued monday evening. 
In his statement, Jenkins en­couraged all to not lose sight of their need for support. 
“The prayers of the notre dame 
see SERVICE PAGE 5 




ND study-abroad students meet Chief Justice Roberts 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
notre dame students studying abroad in washington, d.C. expe­rienced the opportunity of a lifetime monday when they met Chief Justice John Roberts of the united States Supreme Court. 
“The meeting was un­forgettable,” sophomore matthew mleczko said. “[Chief Justice Roberts] immediately had us take our seats and before we knew it, he was sitting a few feet from us, hap­pily sharing his knowl­edge and passion of the institution with us.” 
Junior patrick grimmer said the meet­ing was particularly spe­cial for him since Chief Justice Roberts is the most famous alumnus of his high school, la lumiere high School. 
“I was a member of the first class at la lumiere after his nomination and confirmation [as Chief Justice], so he always cast a big shadow and we were expected to live up to the standards of excel­lence he set,” grimmer said. “It was special to meet him.” 
The opportunity to hear Roberts discuss the process of preparing for his confirmation hear­ing was the most inter­esting part, junior mia Counts said. 
“I never really realized just how extensively you need to prepare for the hearings,” Counts said. “Chief Justice Roberts studied minute details of the law for months on end and compiled a team to test him and ask him questions, creating hearing simulations.” 
The most memorable part of the meeting, mleczko said, was the stories shared about 
see d.C. PAGE 4 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 South dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew defranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Advertising Manager: Emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



What is one uncommon talent you have that is completely useless in real life? 


Michelle Pham 
freshman 
lyons hall 
“I’m really good at pretending to be awake while I sleep in class.” 

Ryan Boccabella 
freshman 
o’neill hall 
“I can do the splits.” 

Ben Willner 
freshman 
Carroll hall 
“I can quote any movie you give me.” 

Joshua O’Brien 
freshman 
dillon hall 
“I can squirt water out of my nose.” 

Tesa Kubicek 
junior 
Ryan hall 
“I can write with my feet.” 


Grace Deardurff 
junior 
mcglinn hall 
“I’m really good at getting freckles.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and Saint mary’s 
College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, managing Editor, 
assistant managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office Information The observer (uSpS 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 South dining hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices poSTmaSTER Send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 South dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. 






Want your event included here? 

News Sports 

Carolyn hutyra brian hartnett Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: katie mcCarty dong-hyun kim kelly konya katie heit 

Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Sara Shoemake maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Men’s Baseball MFA Reading Women’s Softball Soup and Substance: Blue-Gold Spring 
michael kramm Caroline Schurz 

Eck Baseball Stadium Hesburgh Library Melissa Cook Stadium Education in Africa Football Festival 
5:35p.m.-7:35 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Geddes Hall Notre Dame Stadium The Irish take on the Reading of creative The Irish face off 12 p.m.-1:15 p.m. 1 p.m.-5 p.m. 
Corrections 

Michigan Wolverines. writing pieces. against Valparaiso. CSC discussion. Sneak peek at the The observer regards itself as 2013 Fighting Irish. a professional publication and 
Film: “Switch Energy Wellness Wednesday Wham! Bam! Poetry Spring Concert 
strives for the highest standards 

Project” Coleman-Morse Slam DeBartolo Performing Men’s Lacrosse 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Jordan Hall of Science Center Lounge Snite Museum of Art Arts Center Arlotta Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 

7 p.m.-9 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 5 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 8 p.m.-10:30 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 

Explores the world’s Arts and crafts event First annual poetry The Symphony The Irish take on the 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

leading energy sites. to relieve student slam. Orchestra performs. Villanova Wildcats. 
we can correct our error. 
stress. Friday 



Anthropology week hits SMC 
KAITLYN RABACH 
Saint mary’s Editor 
Saint mary’s anthropology club planned to kick off its annual “anthropology week” on monday with a mock archaeological dig, an event cancelled due to poor weather conditions, club co-pres­ident Cristina bueno said. 
“because of the weather we were unable to do the dig,” bueno said. “however, we do plan on resched­uling it for later in the semester. we are still looking forward to the rest of our events for the week.” 
bueno said she hopes this week will promote the study of anthro­pology on the whole campus, as the club wants students to know about all the different facets of the discipline.  “There are a lot of different ways people can get involved with it and that is what we love about the subject the most,” bueno said. “It is broad and can reach out to a wide range of people.” 
The first event, the mock dig, was supposed to draw in students focused on the archeology sub­field of anthropology. 
“This subfield of anthropol­ogy focuses on material remains such as pottery and sometimes includes human remains,” bueno said. “for the mock dig we were planning on placing little prizes on the volleyball courts so stu­dents could dig and see what it is like to be out in the field doing this work.” 
Today, the club will switch gears and focusing on cultural anthro­pology, she said. melissa medich, global Studies department lecturer, will speak about the Etruscan mortuary practice. 
“professor medich will be do­ing a comparative analysis of 
paId adVERTISEmEnT 



funerary art in Etruscan tombs during the fourth and fifth cen­turies bCE,” bueno said. “This represents a mix between cultural and archaeological anthropology. She is going to discuss how mate­rials remains can be used to learn about past cultures.” 
wednesday’s event will move into the biological subfield of the discipline, bueno said. we will be filming “gorrilas In the mist,” a film about the life of dian fossey, a naturalist who dedicated her life to the study of gorillas in Rwanda during a civil war, she said. 
“part of biological anthropology focuses on primates,” bueno said. “This is a perfect film to show be­cause it entertaining, but also very educational.” 
The week will conclude with a holi festival of Colors, an event fo­cused solely on the subfield of cul­tural anthropology, she said.“This festival originated in India and is celebrated in the spring,” bueno said. “It celebrates the arrival of spring with the throwing of color powder. we wanted to have our last day of the week include a very fun and vibrant event.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 


paId adVERTISEmEnT 
‘girl Talk’ creates conversation 
By CAROLYN  HUTYRA 
news writer 
“girl Talk,” a three-week dis­cussion series focused on facili­tating dialogue on college issues among notre dame women, came to a close Sunday. 
The series was created as part of the Right to life club by senior and Joys of life commissioner Samantha Stempsky. Topics of discussion included birth control, feminism and gender relations. 
“It was about creating a space for girls to come together and talk about issues that are particular to women,” she said. 
during the first week, the group approached the topics of feminism in a general sense and the Church’s view of women. Stempsky said the discussion centered on the question, “what does it mean to be a woman?” 
“The article we read was a bunch of selections from pope John paul’s letter to women which is a document that a lot of people don’t know about,” she said. “[It] basically [says] you’re equal, thanks for working, thanks for being in the world.” 
The following week the topic of discussion was birth control, and Stempsky said her committee asked South bend fertility care specialist Suzy younger to speak on this topic. The series then con­cluded with a third and final dis­cussion on beauty, the worth of women and the ways women are viewed by men, including a short discussion on pornography. 
“although we’re aware that women are objectified in the media, how much progress have we actually made in feeling bet­ter about ourselves and knowing how to recognize our own self-worth even when we don’t look like a model?” Stempsky said. 
“I think how women relate to men is very much affected by how women are portrayed in the media, both from how men view women and how women choose to interact with men.” 
Stempsky said several factors contributed to her creation of this discussion series. one rea­son in particular stemmed from the recent presidential election, she said. 
“during the political de­bates people were very gen­eralizing and theoretical and [making] sweeping statements about women,” she said. “I think it’s really important to acknowl­edge the personal experiences behind these women’s issues.” 
whether people are pro-life or pro-choicrno, for or against contraceptio, and women in the church, those opinions stem from personal reasons which need to be recognized, Stempsky said. 
“growing up, your experience of being a woman is going to shape how you think about femi­nism and these issues, and so we wanted to recognize that and try to focus the discussion on that.” Stempsky said. 
The plans for ths series also arose from talksyby george mason university law professor helen avare, Stempsky said. 
“I was really very inspired by her “women speak for them­selves” campaign and just this idea that women have their indi­vidual, unique voices,” she said.” 
often people think they know other’s opinions on certain issues and later find out they really do not, Stempsky said. 
“we may have different ideas about what’s best for women, but usually all women want what’s best for women,” she said. 
Through this series, Stempsky said the committee hoped to fa­cilitate an open dialogue and cre­ate a tonh that would encourage others to share their opinions, thought, and feelings to last for years to come 
“I think it was really fruitful even for people who couldn’t attend,” she said. “It got people thinking about the different variations of women’s issues and women’s thoughts and feelings on these issues.” 
Stempsky said she believes this sort of dialogue is important especially on a Catholic campus in light of the recent health man­date and issues like contracep­tion in the media today. 
“on a campus like notre dame’s that’s Catholic yet very prestigious in the secular world women’s issues can become more complicated,” Stempsky said. “There’s more chance for misunderstandings because you are interacting with Church teaching.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 


ThE obSERVER | TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 2013 | ndSmCobSERVER.Com 

D.C. 
ConTInuEd fRom pagE 1 
Chief Justice John marshall. 
“as he talked about the man whom he so admired, he also gave us a glimpse into his judicial philosophy and the legacy he is trying to leave behind,” he said. “we were, in essence, speaking with our generation’s Chief Justice marshall.” 
Chief Justice John Roberts also spoke about Supreme Court history, sharing stories about former Supreme Court chief justices, mleczko said. 
“I believe I am leaving D.C. with direction and that direction is really, really valuable.” 
Matthew Mleczko 
Study-abroad student 
“he spent most of his time with us answering questions,” mleczko said. “Considering his position in the government, it’s incred­ible that he spent a good 30 minutes with us.” 
during their meeting, Counts said the students had the opportunity to talk to Roberts about a range of topics, and she said she was surprised by the informality of the meeting . 
“he is an obviously intelli­gent, driven man with an ex­cellent poker face,” she said. “he never let on if he thought our questions were dumb.” 
grimmer said Roberts also discussed the politiciza­tion of law through judicial nominations. 
“he argued that the cur­rent system of nomination and confirmation could change so as to avoid ram­pant political posturing through court nominees,” grimmer said. 
The focus of grimmer’s trip to washington, d.C. was an internship. he said his experience has helped him obtain insight into the pro­fessional world while still maintaining his status as a student. 
“I feel it is an underrated program, as many students desire to go overseas but ig­nore the practicality and convenience of living in such a fascinating city,” grimmer said. 
The trip to washington was truly memorable be­cause of both the class and work experiences that have helped mature the students politically, mleczko said. 
“I’ve whole-heartedly en­joyed every minute of my time as a notre dame stu­dent, but studying in d.C. has arguably been the most formative semester so far,” mleczko said. “I’ve gained insight from professionals in policy areas that I hope to someday pursue.” 
mleczko said his experi­ences advocating for budget provisions on Capitol hill and coordinating advocacy campaigns with other non­profit leaders helped him discern his future career plans. 
“I believe I am leaving d.C. with direction and that di­rection is really, really valu­able,” he said. 
but the memorable meet­ing with Roberts was one of many opportunities that has made studying abroad in washington a valuable expe­rience for notre dame stu­dents, mlezcko said. 
“To be addressing the chief justice of the united States, a man who has been building quite the judicial portfolio in the past few years, was sort of an out-of-body experi­ence,” mlezcko said. 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 
Professor lectures on Latinos 
By GRACE MCCORMACK 
news writer 
dr. david hayes-bautista, direc­tor of the Center for the Study of latino health and Culture at the university of California los angeles, addressed the implications of the united States’ increasing latino population monday in mckenna hall. 
In a lecture titled “young latinidad and the future of america,” hayes-bautista said the growing percentage of latinos in the united States is inevitable and beneficial. 
“In Texas and in California and in new mexico, over 50 percent of the babies born are latino,” he said. “This is the norm.” 
latinos are also a sizable minority in other states, such as Illinois and new york, hayes-bautista said. 
”as a whole, the state will work more, work more hours per week, use less welfare, have fewer heart attacks, have fewer cancers, have fewer strokes [as the latino popula­tion grows],” he said. 
hayes-bautista said his research shows these statistical shifts are largely due to cultural differ­ences between latinos and other americans. 
“latinos have the highest labor force participation of any group in the country and are far more likely to start a business,” he said. “latinos have historically very low welfare utilization rates.” 
despite their potential positive impact on the united States, the media portrays latinos mostly neg­atively, hayes-bautista said. 
“If you go home and watch the 11 o’clock news, what’s it likely to be?,” hayes-bautista said. “gangs, illegal immigration, teenage moms.” 
This portrayal differs largely from present latino realities and history, hayes-bautista said. north america contained early latino settle­ments whose people participated in past wars and helped finance the american Revolution, he said. 
“because of latinos, because of the values,  because of the families, because of the faith, we have always been building this country since 80 years before [the settlement of Jamestown, Va.],” he said. “latinos have been helping to defend the freedoms of this country since 1776.” 
november’s elections clearly indi­cate present-day latinos will have a similarly-profound impact on the united States, hayes-bautista said. 
“The latino electorate stepped forward and changed the course of this nation’s history by causing the re-election of president obama,” he said. “not because of president obama, but because latinos made thedifference.” 
Contact Grace McCormack at gmccorma@nd.edu 
paId adVERTISEmEnT 




those affected by the bombing. 
Service 
Marathon 
when students shared their own 
ConTInuEd fRom pagE 1 
ConTInuEd fRom pagE 1 
intentions, some prayed for heal-community are with those who ing for the victims in boston and 

imagine that the explosion goes lost their lives and were injured, the first responders, as well as for 
off and no one has their phone as well as with their families and compassion on the part of jour­
to contact their family and their friends, in the bombing monday nalists and elected officials who 
friends.” in boston,” Jenkins said in the are handling this crisis. 
The bombs were placed in release. “Such tragic events have freshman bridgid Venard said 
trash cans and blew out the become all too common in our she came to the service because al­
front of a store called marathon world, and yet I call upon all to though her family was not directly 
Sports, mcgovern said. She avoid treating them as routine, affected, many of her friends were 
said she, her dad and her uncle but instead to lift up those who are struck by the tragedy. 
bought shoes there Sunday. suffering.” “I do have a lot of friends at 
when she watched news at the service, Coccia called boston College, and one of my very 
coverage of the explosions, upon students to internalize this good friends was [running] in that 
mcgovern saw people she had willingness to lift up the victims of marathon,” Venard said. “She was 
spoken to earlier in the day. monday’s attack. at her 22nd mile [when the bombs 
“It just feels like, ‘oh my god,’” “Something fr. Jenkins said in went off] and I believe it happened 
she said. “boston’s a small town his statement was about the need at the 26th mile, so she was very 
and it’s just kind of crazy.” to make sure we do not view these close to where it happened. I’m 
monday was patriot’s day things as routine and that we con-very thankful to god that she was 
in massachusetts, mcgovern tinue to act against them, against okay, along with her sister. 
said, and the boston marathon anyone. and about 15 minutes Stride said bC, where she violence like this,” Coccia said. “This was indeed a tragedy, and 
is typically held on this holiday. later I finally reached my brother watched the marathon, is at the notre dame junior Chris glueck we need to come together and 
government jobs give their em-… and we were able to talk for a 21-mile mark. She said she was was among the students to share somehow grow from it.” 
ployees the day off and schools few minutes. back in her sister’s dorm room his reflections on the bombings Junior brian duffy said he 
shut down. She said as a result, “It was good just to hear his when she saw coverage of the ex-and their aftermath, calling stu-wanted to stand in solidarity with 
there is “huge public participa-voice. … he said everything was plosions on the news. dents to remember those injured those hurt by the tragedy. 
tion” in the marathon. all right. “ “[There was] just a lot of worry and deceased and all of those af-“my no. 1 motivation to attend 
“I think that’s another thing kearney, who lives approxi-about students who are running, fected by the day’s events. glueck was out of support for those af­
that makes this a little scary, mately 45 miles west of boston, and making sure everybody is invited students to consider their fected — the city of boston, the 
because there are just so many said the rest of his family was okay has been the biggest con-roles as the “light of Christ in a families involved and the nation,” 
people out,” mcgovern said. with his brother at the marathon. cern I have seen so far, just a lot time of darkness.” duffy said. “Secondly, I wanted to 
Sophomore paul kearney was “They were parked in boston of confusion also,” Stride said. “as we stand here, we stand up-pray that this wouldn’t inspire fur-
affected by the explosions at the downtown, and there was no “I know there was an initial right in the face of violence, just ther acts of violence.” 
boston marathon in a differ-way to get to their cars, so they concern about … a potential as Christ did,” glueck said. “he Coccia said student govern­
ent way. his brother damian, a had to walk out to a suburb,” he bomb being right on the [boston taught us not to run in the face of ment planned to reach out to 
2009 alumnus of notre dame said. “Someone was going to pick College] campus that turned out darkness, not to take fear at the vi-boston College to coordinate a 
who works at the university’s them up and drive them home.” to be false. olence, but to counter it with light join support effort. he invited 
Institute for Educational kearney said his brother com-“Just everybody is glued to 
— with his light. when our broth-any students with ideas about the 

Initiatives, ran the race. pleted the marathon well before the TV is all that’s going on right ers and sisters around us weep, of-shape of that support to contact 
“I was actually in class at the the bombs detonated. he said he now. ... Everybody’s trying to ten the only thing we can do is to him or student body vice presi­
time of the bombings, and I was was pretty sure his brother did talk to people from home and offer them a shoulder.” dent nancy Joyce. 
getting these texts from various not hear the explosions. whatnot.” other students stood before the 
people, like friends and fam-“but he saw all the people run-gary kaneb, a notre dame crowd in the chapel to read bible Contact Nicole Michels at 
ily,” kearney said. “as soon as ning and evacuating the general alumnus of 1983, said he com-passages and offer petitions for nmichels@nd.edu 
I got out of class I started call-area, and he said that he was just pleted the race one hour before ing people, and I couldn’t reach pretty confused at the whole the explosions rocked the finish 
paId adVERTISEmEnT 
situation,” kearney said. “and line. at the time he said, ‘you might “[It was] literally 25 yards from actually know more than I do the finish line,” kaneb said. “I because it’s just a pretty hectic finished at 3:29 [minutes], so I scene.’ and he just told me … to got off the course at 1:45 p.m. or put a [facebook] status up saying so.” he was safe because what he was kaneb said he ran with the concerned about was not having second seed of runners and that friends and family freak out.” the explosion went off around 
Receiving text messages from the time the third seed would family and friends while he was have crossed the finish line. in class caused “sensory over-“The third wave is mostly load,” kearney said. the [people running to support 
“The first [messages] I saw charities],” he said. “Those are were kind of ambiguous and the numbers 18,000 and above.” I didn’t know what to make of kaneb said he was on his way them,” he said. “I remember the home when he heard the news. last 15 minutes of class, just, I he said officials pulled runners, couldn’t pay attention because including one of his cowork-I was just concerned about my ers, off the course as they closed family, and I immediately called down boylston St. them when I got out. and thank-mcgovern said the runners fully I finally reached them and were very excited about the mar-that really calmed me down. It athon before it began. was just a very confusing hour “It’s such a big deal for people there.” who love to run, and you’re so 
kearney said his brother was proud to have your bib number,” unable to return to South bend she said. “when you’re running last night as planned and was and there’s all these spectators trying to reschedule his flight for and they’re cheering you on, today. it’s really an incredible experi­
“I’m just thankful that my ence. … So I think that makes it family’s okay,” kearney said, especially tragic that something “and I’m thinking about all of the like this completely soiled what other families affected.” should be an exciting day for 
Saint mary’s sophomore allie everybody.” Stride said she was visiting her Managing Editor Meghan sister, with whom she is part Thomassen and Saint Mary’s of a triplet, at boston College Editor Kaitlyn Rabach contrib­(bC) on monday. Stride said she uted to this report. went to boston to visit her sister and participate in the city-wide Contact Marisa Iati at           celebration. miati@nd.edu 




INSIDE COLUMN 
good old 42 
Samantha Zuba 
Sports writer 
42. It’s the only number retired by every major league baseball club. and now it’s a movie that depicts the life of the great Jackie Robinson, the man behind good old number 42. by tak­ing a walk through Robinson’s playing career, “42” does a good job reminding us why he mattered. 
The filmmakers tackled quite the challenge when they decided to make a movie about Jackie Robinson. Robinson’s legend as a ballplayer and groundbreaking person deserves representation as great as the man himself. So thank goodness the film is pretty good. 
Could the storyline have delved a little deeper into his character? yes. were there a couple of awkward mo­ments? yes. but “42” is a good movie that addresses more than Robinson’s baseball legacy. 
The movie vividly depicts the ha­tred and threats he endured in every ballpark he visited. Robinson repeat­edly insists, as he did in real life, all he wants to do is play baseball. It should have been simple. There should not have been a reason Robinson couldn’t play if he was good enough to make the dodgers. 
when Robinson finally made the team, america quickly discovered he certainly was good enough. he won Rookie of the year in 1947, and then played his way to an illustrious hall of fame career with a .311 career batting average and 1,518 hits. 
Robinson was a great baseball play­er, but that’s not the reason one player from each major league baseball team wears the number 42 for a game on Jackie Robinson day each year. other baseball icons like babe Ruth and hank aaron don’t enjoy that honor. 
but Jackie Robinson was more than a baseball icon. he was, and still is, an american icon. 
Robinson was posthumously award­ed the presidential medal of freedom and the Congressional gold medal, the two highest civilian honors in the united States. Robinson did not re­ceive these medals for the number of hits he got. he was honored because of how he hit them: with dignity. he refused to be marginalized, but he also refused to use violence to silence his abusers. 
did Robinson change america over­night? no. he just wanted to play ball. but in doing so, he showed america courage that it desperately needed to see. 
That’s what “42” reminds us. Robinson’s legacy extends far beyond baseball, as it should. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
On staying Catholic 
Christopher Damian 
Ideas of a university 

I almost gave up Catholicism twice while at notre dame. for two weeks during freshman year, a class I was tak­ing had convinced me that the existence of god was incompatible with rational belief. during the middle of my college career, a traumatic personal experi­ence left me angry, lonely and wanting to give up any faith. Reflecting on those experiences, I am sometimes surprised I am still here, will be graduating in a few weeks and am still Catholic. 
I came to notre dame in 2009 seeking a Catholic liberal arts education. I want­ed to pursue the various facets of human knowledge and understand how they connected with each other. I wanted to see how this knowledge as a whole con­nected to the teachings of the Church. after seriously pursuing this connection for four years, I now see that I was naïve to assume it would be easy to find. 
The Church’s teachings often seem ter­ribly unbelievable. a friend once told me about when he explained the Church’s teaching on transubstantiation to his roommate. The roommate, a Catholic his whole life, responded, “why didn’t someone tell me that? I can’t believe it.” at that moment, he gave up Catholicism. 
I think I’m too stubborn to give up on Catholicism so easily. at the same time, I can’t belong to a religion that is contrary to the truth of reason. If the Church has even one teaching that is so contrary, that teaching may be grounds for me to seek truth in another religion. I don’t want a religion that has some truths. I want the fullness of truth. 
my faith is an intellectual struggle. Some people decide the Church’s teach­ings don’t coincide with how they feel, so they adopt personal spirituality rather than institutional teaching. I couldn’t do this. I know if I decided to be “spiritual, not religious,” my spirituality would consist of self-worship and accommoda­tion. I need standards external to myself so I don’t create a god in the image of my desires. Instead of giving up, I struggle to understand the Church’s teachings. In a freshman science class, I was taught to assume atoms exist, even though I had never seen them. If I can have faith in science, I can have faith in religion. I believe and then seek to understand. 
It’s harder to believe in Catholicism when its members don’t understand you, when you feel like they don’t love you, when they hurt you. a priest once said (to one of my friends) that my sins and struggles were dangerous to those around me. he told my friends they should distance themselves from me. perhaps he was right, but I know he was wrong to never reach out to me, to never ask if I was okay in the midst of all of this, to never offer me support. I was left alone. I walked around campus at night, fearing that the world was crumbling around me. I considered transferring schools. I considered changing religions. 
my faith was saved by many things outside of my control. I met a priest who made sure I knew that I was loved by god and by him. I found friends who showed me love in a Church for strug­gling sinners. I learned that the Church is bigger than its hypocritical members, even myself. I learned suffering can fa­cilitate growth and love is real. 
I recently showed a prospective stu­dent around notre dame’s campus. She asked me what it was like to be Catholic here, the kind of Catholic who believes in and cares about the Church’s teachings, who tries to cultivate a life of prayer, who seeks to root every act in the sacramental life. I told her it was difficult. 
yet, here I am. I am a student graduat­ing from the university of notre dame who believes in the Church’s teach­ings. I struggle every day to live up to these teachings. most days I fail, but I take faith in the saints who assure me Catholicism is a religion for the sinful and the struggling. To give up is the greatest failure. I’m sticking with the intellectual and the practical struggling. I’m staying Catholic. 
Christopher Damian is a senior studying philosophy. He can be contacted at cdamian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
freedom for everyone 
Conor Durkin 
out of Right field 

The past few weeks have been ex­tremely eventful with respect to the issue of gay marriage. Senator Rob portman of ohio came out with a pub­lic statement announcing his support for marriage equality, making him the first Republican senator to do so. The Supreme Court heard arguments regard­ing California’s proposition 8 (which prohibits gay marriage in the state) and the defense of marriage act. 
Those who know me well know I have pretty strong opinions on most public policy issues. for as long as I have cared about politics, I have been a Republican. but, that doesn’t mean I oppose gay mar­riage. It’s precisely why I support it. 
I am a firm believer in individualism. I believe in the free market because I think individuals are better economic decision-makers than central planners. I believe in civil liberties because I don’t trust the government to decide how I should think, which god I should wor­ship, or what I should be allowed to say. I oppose efforts like mayor bloomberg’s ban on large sugary drinks because I think people should be able to make their own decisions on what to eat and drink. and I support marriage equality because I don’t think the government should decide whether two consenting adults are or aren’t allowed to marry. 
most conservative objections to mar­riage equality focus on the inherently religious nature of “marriage.” I can understand this objection, but I believe it highlights a fundamental misunder­standing. yes, the sacrament of mat­rimony is a fundamentally religious ceremony, but that’s not what we’re talk­ing about when we discuss gay marriage. we are talking about the civil institution of marriage that exists alongside the reli­gious institution. when a straight couple is married, they don’t just participate in the sacrament of matrimony, but they also enter into a civil union recognized by the government. There is nothing inherently religious about this pact; it’s a civil contract. when our govern­ment prohibits same-sex couples from entering into this civil contract, they are making an implicit judgment about the validity of their union as opposed to those unions of straight couples. 
That’s not a role they should have. I don’t want a government to dictate morality. This is partially because I believe in a separation of church and state, and a country that holds religious freedom to be a central value should not create law restricting others’ freedoms based upon one’s religious view of god’s will. yet more fundamentally, having government dictate morality to us di­minishes our capacity as individuals to understand for ourselves what morality is. morality comes from god, not the government, and in a liberal democracy our civil institutions should permit the greatest possible degree of freedom to the individual in determining the moral course of action. 
how do we do this? To some, the right course of action is to allow ‘civil unions’ for same-sex partners, to give couples equal status under the law. I used to be in that camp. but if the state makes gay couples equal to straight couples in every capacity save one — the right to actu­ally refer to the union as a marriage — then what the state has implicitly done is stated the gay union is somehow less valid than the straight union. otherwise, there is no reason for the state to use a different word. The proper course is far simpler: To permit same-sex couples to participate in the civil institution of marriage. 
primarily, I believe the single best argument for the marriage equality case is one of freedom. I don’t presume to fully understand god nor do I believe it appropriate for me to judge whether someone’s union is in accordance with god’s will. neither should our govern­ment. we live in a liberal democracy, and a fundamental respect for individual liberty means we must protect the rights of individuals to decide what constitutes a marriage. former Vice president dick Cheney — who, incidentally, publicly fa­vored marriage equality before president obama did — perhaps said it best: “freedom means freedom for everyone.” 
Conor Durkin is a junior studying eco­nomics and political science. He can be reached at cdurkin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ThE obSERVER | TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 2013 | ndSmCobSERVER.Com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

To the perpetrator... 
dear not-so-gentlemanly boy of Stanford hall, 

because you feigned ignorance to the reason I slapped you this past Saturday night, please allow me the opportunity to explain (although, quite frankly, you do not deserve the courtesy). no, it was not because it was in my nature as a black woman as you very loudly lamented. It was because I am a woman, a human, who is simply deserving of respect and courtesy. It was be­cause the moment you decided to swing your hand down at my bottom, you believed it was okay to put your unfamiliar hands on my private part without my permission, and I am noT okay with that. 
for the past month, I had been thoroughly consumed with writing my very important final paper for the graduate course I was taking, so I elected to spend my Saturday night in. my friend had graciously vacated his room in Stanford for me so I would not need to confine myself in the library which was already swarming with students hard at work. at half-past midnight, I decided to step out into the lobby to use the restroom when you, not-so-gentlemanly boy, stopped me to ask, “who are you?” knowing well enough nothing good could come out of the situation, being that you were so intoxicated, I decided to continue on my way without answering. upon my return, you and several of your cronies had congregated around the door of the party you were at and were effectively blocking my passage through the hallway. as I made my way through the throng, you decided it was a good idea to slap my behind. Try your best to imagine my shock and disbelief at having you, a complete stranger, put his hand on me as if I wanted it there. I did what I would have done had the situation occurred in a bar, on the street or anywhere else; I slapped you and walked away. I was upset and visibly shaking when I re-entered the room. I did not care to have your hand on my behind, good-natured though the intention might have been. I did not know you and did not give you the permission to touch me. when I closed the door behind me, it was all I could do to keep my calm as my bottom continued to sting where your hand had abused it. 
my head was swimming in fury and humiliation. yes, humiliation. do you understand that? Then I noticed something else, my eyes were stinging with unshed tears. no, not because of what had just occurred. I was upset because of the analysis that you and your buddies were giving for my slap. “why would she do that?” “oh my god, that was out of nowhere” “wow, I am really glad that I am not a black man ... I would never want to deal with women like that.” and from you, dearest not-so-gentleman, “That was so black of her!” wait, what? why was it so easy for you to blame my actions on my skin color? I was mad, furious, to be perfectly honest. mad at the girls who stood there and did nothing when you slapped my bottom, at those very girls (notice that I do not call them women) who seemed astonished that I should react in the manner that I did, mad at the boys (for I shall not call you or them men) who did not chastise you for your inappropriate behavior and mad at being reduced to a race instead of the human that I am. 
you see, not-so-gentlemanly man, before you, I had never had a racist en­counter. before you, I had often had conversations with my friends where I expressed fears that one day I would have to face racism. I had survived all 12 of my years in the united States without ever going through that moment and I had hope it would never happen to me ... until you. 
when you and your friends said those things about me, I froze. I could feel something inside me screaming, “This is it, priscilla, look at it in the face,” begging me to react and put you to shame, but I couldn’t. 
I was so dumbfounded and so incredibly hurt that I couldn’t move. The pain was visceral and consuming. I was angry at you for tearing down what little hope I had in you as a human being and at myself for not being able to react the way I wanted to. 
I slapped you not because I am black, but for the profound respect that I have for myself as a woman. I do so hope you read this because I write it es­pecially for you. how does it feel to be the perpetrator of my first racist ex­perience? Congratulate yourself. not many can say they were able to bring priscilla nyankson to tears, but you can. 
Priscilla Nyankson 
senior off-campus 

Conversations about mental health 
like many of you, we have enjoyed reading about our fellow domers’ misadventures and silly secrets on the anonymous nd Confessions facebook page. Recently, however, some of the posts have taken a more serious tone: from confessions about mental illness, to eat­ing disorders, grief and anxiety. while most reactions to these confessions have been supportive, some have been downright disrespectful. Recent Viewpoint let­ters (“a different sort of confession,” april 9; “not for nd Confessions,” april 12) have highlighted the need for a conversation about the issues raised on this page. we believe this situation particularly highlights the need for a genuine discussion about the way mental health is ad­dressed on campus and online. 
according to the american College health association, 25 percent of college students are diagnosed or treated for a mental health disorder each year. but, as many of the posts on the nd Confessions page report, students often feel like they don’t have a safe outlet to discuss their concerns on campus, even with their closest friends. Comments that stigmatize, blame or poke fun at students struggling with these issues perpetuate misconceptions and contribute to a campus environ­ment which often feels inhospitable to conversations about mental health. This is unacceptable. 

we need to create space for genuine dialogue about mental health at notre dame, where individuals feel they can share their stories safely and without judgement. Every person on this campus is responsible for helping to make that happen — and the process has to begin by checking the way we talk about about these issues in the dorms, dining halls and online. 
we commend those who have taken the time to post supportive comments. we also recognize the good in­tentions of the moderator(s) of the page and their efforts to make it a place which is tolerant of a wide variety of experiences and perspectives. however, we would like to remind all involved of the difficult and complex na­ture of many of these concerns. Commentators, please continue to post links to official support services and provide words of encouragement. however, please do not offer unsolicited and unprofessional advice, as this may do more harm than help. we ask that the moderator(s) of the page use discretion in posting confessions of a serious nature, and that they develop a systematic re­sponse to submissions which suggest a need for immedi­ate support. 
If you’re struggling, know that you’re not alone and the notre dame family is here to support you. we encourage students with concerns big or small to check out the great services provided by the university Counselling Center, and to consider joining namI-nd (national alliance on mental Illness), a student organization that’s working to end the stigma surrounding mental illness on campus. 
Confession is brave and cathartic, but it can also be a one-way street. let’s start a real conversation about men­tal health on campus and how we can best support each other. 
Christina Mondi 
junior abroad 
Patrick Cruitt 
junior abroad 


ThE obSERVER | TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 2013 | ndSmCobSERVER.Com 


By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene writer 
Classy: 
Skylar astin: If you didn’t already fall in love with him from “pitch perfect,” you will now. The well-cut, classy suit can never be over appreciated, plus a dashing smile is the perfect accessory. 
Emma watson: The sharp black and white angles on the edges and the blue and white short dress as the focus made for a cute, fun look for the red carpet. 
Zoe Saldana: long sleeve black top and floral print skirt are a look that could have been frumpy and disastrous, but Zoe pulls it off with a sheer cut-out in the skirt to add some sexiness. 
Childish: 
Chloe moretz: The biggest fail goes to this play date-esque denim dress. This event is for big girls only, Chloe. 
ke$ha: She was clearly having a hard time deciding whether she was a hippie, a goth or someone who wears opaque pants. 
Snoop dogg: Sorry, Snoop, but putting on a bright furry coat doesn’t make your fitting pants and country boy plaid suddenly look fancy. 
Crazy: 
will ferrell: There’s not much left to be said for a money suit. It’s literal enough to speak for itself. and obviously not done in seriousness, so good for a laugh. 
hana mae lee: what would have been a best-dressed look in a sexy geometric black dress is completely overshadowed by the giant cigarette hat. Is this pro or anti-smoking? 
Rupaul: a completely metallic suit would be great for the red carpet of a bad futuristic sci-fi movie. In real life, it’s just bad and sci-fi. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 


By MADDIE DALY 
Scene Editor 
Host Rebel Wilson: 

although mTV has always been known for airing sexually promiscuous and inap­propriate for ages 17 and under shows, this year’s movie awards took that stereotype to a whole new level with its raucous humor.  The mTV movie awards was hosted by australian actress and comedian Rebel wilson, better known as fat amy from the mov­ie “pitch perfect.” wilson is famous, or should we say infamous, for her vulgar unre­strained sense of humor and her performance on Sunday night was no exception.  from the endless sexual innuendos (mostly directed at “magic mike” hottie Channing Tatum) to the numerous drug and alcohol references, wilson held nothing back.  however, com­pared to previous hosts Russell brand and Jason Sudeikis, I personally felt that wilson fell behind.  many of her jokes were followed by near-silence, probably because the au­dience didn’t know how to respond to such strange and inappropriate humor.  not to mention the fact that she was wearing what looked like a futuristic spacesuit made out of a garbage bag. 
Winners: 
movie of the year went to “The avengers,” bringing Chris Evans, Samuel l. Jackson, Tom hiddleston and director Joss whedon to the stage to accept the award. 
bradley Cooper won the award for best male performance for his role in “Silver linings playbook.”  
his  “Silver linings” costar Jennifer lawrence took home the award for best fe­male performance, and the two of them won best kiss for their onscreen chemistry. 
The new category, best shirtless performance, was a tough choice I’m sure, but the prize went to Taylor lautner for his role as Jacob black in “breaking dawn.” how he beat Channing Tatum in “magic mike” is beyond me.  To accept his award lautner jokingly wore a fake beer belly and carried a large coke, hiding the fact that he has a perfect six-pack and could be mistaken for a greek god.  
unsurprisingly, the award for breakthrough performance went to host Rebel wilson for her role as fat amy in “pitch perfect.” 
The comedic genius award went to veteran comedian will ferrell. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 


ThE obSERVER | TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 2013 | ndSmCobSERVER.Com 

By MADDIE DALY 
Scene Editor 
for my french culture class, we have been reading the book “globalia,” a fu­turistic novel exaggerating the possibil­ity of a complete change in our society resulting from the complete destruction of nature as we know it.  To supplement this reading, our class attended one of the Climate Change talks in mckenna hall last wednesday, presented by Jennie hoffman. 
after walking into our regular class­room where the lights were off and the door locked, I remembered that our class was moved to mckenna and sprinted across the quad to make the talk on time. when I arrived, I stepped into a circle with my classmates who all felt a bit out of place among what looked to be big-time scientists and professors.  after snatching some of the fancy free food, we entered the small yet official auditorium that re­minded me of a courtroom (not that I’ve ever been in one, but if I had to picture what a courtroom looks like that would be it). 
dr. Jennie hoffman was introduced as a marine ecologist who has co-authored 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
Scene writer 
I stepped into marvel Tattoo on Indiana 933 on a friday afternoon not knowing what to expect. I had never been to a tat­too parlor before besides just stepping in to browse. There was one day last year when I had dropped into a small shop in downtown denver. There I had looked only at the tattoo books and imagined how funny I would look with inked-on im­age of a mermaid or an anchor on my arm. I never thought I would find myself in a tattoo shop for any serious transaction. 
yet, after class last friday, I took a seat in a booth inside marvel, holding the hand of a friend as she got a beautiful tattoo. The tattoo artist at marvel, a large man not surprisingly covered in tattoos of his own, seemed to know what he was doing. as my friend squirmed, shook and yelped, he held the needle firmly and confidently inked a symbol into her side. 
as he worked on her tattoo, we talked and edited “buying Time: a user’s manual for building Resistance and Resilience to Climate Change in natural Systems,” published by the world wildlife fund (wwf) in 2003 as well as researched climate change for the past 10 years.  She began her talk by speaking of mitigation and adaptation, defined as what we do to decrease global climate change and what we do to limit the harm posed by climate change, respectively.  Clearly an expert on this topic, hoffman provided a com­parison we were able to wrap our heads around, designating good road designs as an example of mitigation and seat belts as an example of adaptation. 

next she spoke about specific pro­tected areas in South america.  She brought up a map of South america on her powerpoint with areas color-coded based on environment type. 
“The amazon rainforest is critically important,” hoffman said, “as it’s a cen­ter of global biodiversity.  There is an all-out effort being made to protect this huge area of South america against the destruction of rain forests.” 
Call me ignorant, but I never knew cli­mate change in itself was turning the lush rain forests of South america into sparse 
about the possibilities for my future ink. “you should get a panther,” he told me, “panthers are bitchin’.” 
despite the occasional foul language and maybe some crude humor heard around the place, marvel is a clean, com­fortable space to meet your ink and pierc­ing needs. The year before, when I had giggled at catalogs of tattoos in denver, I never considered actually getting inked, probably because the denver store was dim and the employees unfriendly. Tattoos seemed out of the question. but as I held my friend’s hand in marvel this weekend, my thinking shifted. Though a panther tattoo certainly wasn’t on my plate that afternoon, marvel seemed like the perfect place to go to make a change. 
That’s why the very next day I walked into marvel with another friend who planned to get a tattoo. This time, I decid­ed, I wanted to leave marvel with some­thing of my own as well. after my friend gritted her teeth and went through the pain of her very first tattoo, which turned savannah, yet according to hoffman, this is a huge issue.  and despite all the efforts of ecologists, the chances of sav­ing the endangered rain forests are low. 
“They put in all this effort to protect South america and only about a third of that area is certain to remain as tropical rain forest,” hoffman said.  “The other two-thirds, because of climate change, no matter how good we are at mitigation, may or may not remain forest.  In fact, one-third of that is almost guaranteed to disappear.” 
It impresses me how much time and ef­fort people are willing to invest in these projects that have such a low success rate, but at the same time I am glad of their ef­forts because we are all depending on them.  whether we realize it or not, with­out ecologists like dr. Jennie hoffman, I am certain our world would be far worse off than it already is and most of us would be completely clueless as to how to go about solving these ecological problems. 
her next example was more relatable as it referred to our world’s beaches. Specifically she brought up the issue of sea turtles and their possible extinction. 
“Sea turtles are a popular sight for tourists, but with the climate change 
out exactly how she had hoped, I decided to bite the bullet and finally get my nose pierced — something I had been talking about for months. 
while I won’t go into all of my feel­ings and worries about getting my nose pierced, I will talk about how pleasant my experience was on that Saturday evening. after a few minutes of anxiously filling out paperwork and waiting for the piercer, I was brought into a back room. I asked questions about the piercing — how long it would take to heal, what exactly what my nose ring was made of and how the process would go. She calmly explained exactly how she would go about putting a hole in my nose, knowledgeably explaining to me the ins and outs of piercings. after a few deep breaths on my part, I opened my eyes to see my very own nose ring in place. 
after a few seconds of pain and some cheers from my friends, the employees at marvel congratulated me and gave us information about aftercare. The staff was a comforting mix of at-ease and their numbers are falling,” hoffman said.  “The temperature of the nest deter­mines the sex of the baby turtles, so the warmer the nest, the more females are hatched. If there are too many females, the turtles are going to stop reproducing all together.” 
I have always adored sea turtles and even owned a fresh water turtle for 10 years, so this example connected di­rectly to my emotions. She pointed out efforts of locals who have nightly shifts to protect the turtles (think of the scene in “The last Song” where miley sleeps out­side to guard the turtle nest … don’t be ashamed, we’ve all seen it). 
despite the efforts already being put forth by people like dr. Jennie hoffman, so much more needs to be done in order to protect our planet from becoming completely unrecognizable and possibly unlivable in the future.  although atten­dance was required for my french class, I am glad I had the chance to listen to dr. hoffman’s climate change talk, and I hope it inspires others as well to at least become aware of the problem of climate change, if not put in an effort to change. 
 Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
professional. They were clearly knowl­edgeable but brought a great sense of hu­mor to our experiences. with my friends and I doing some combination of smil­ing and wincing in pain, I left marvel on Saturday night immediately reflecting on the eventful weekend. 
I could not be happier with my choice to go to marvel, and my recently-tattooed friends would say the same. I felt wel­comed and comfortable in the shop and couldn’t imagine going anywhere else. I will spend the rest of my time in South bend encouraging others to stop by, even if only to cheer a friend on as they go through that classic college experience of getting their very first tattoo. It was an ex­perience of a lifetime. and even if my nose ring doesn’t last forever, my memories at marvel will. 
you can visit marvel Tattoo at 51976 Indiana 933, South bend, In 46637. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollacks@nd.edu 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 
huskers display philanthropy 

Jack Hefferonn 
Sports writer 
The sports world has a tendency to take itself pretty seriously. 
This past weekend, a giant fell when kobe bryant tore his achilles tendon. australia put everything else aside and celebrated as one when adam Scott won that country’s first green jacket at the masters. and with the Cubs putting a Jumbotron in at wrigley field, the last of our sacred tradi­tions has died, and the apoca­lypse is nigh. 
These sentiments were not far from reactions I heard across the sports media land­scape this weekend, and these types of hyperbole and melo­drama are all too common in sports. at their core, sports are more about the games you played as a kid than the “epic battles” they’re made out to be. 
It’s true that sports are a bil­lion dollar industry and that millions do invest their hearts in following their favorite teams and players. and. sure, the biggest games on the big­gest stages do come around once in a while and deserve such hallowed tones. 
but on most days, we’re talking about inconsequen­tial, overhyped matchups. Spring training. Exhibition games against division III schools. The bobcats vs. the Jazz. In the grand scheme of things — really, in any scheme of things — these games don’t matter, but the parties involved try to convince us that nothing could be more important. 
The pinnacle of these non­events, though, is college football’s spring game. The spring game is an open prac­tice masquerading as a game, tryout and celebration all in one, when it is in fact none of these things. 
That’s why it was so refresh­ing to see one program push the football somewhat aside and use the platform of the spring game to do something actually worthwhile. on the last play of its scrimmage, nebraska brought seven­year-old cancer patient Jack hoffman onto the field and into the game at running back. with 60,000 fans cheer­ing him on, hoffman ran 69 yards for the score and was carried off the field on the team’s shoulders. 
hoffman said the experi­ence made him feel “almost like he was a husker,” and the moment has become a nationwide story — gather­ing just a bit more attention than which backup center had the best showing that day. Stripping the game of its self-importance was a win-win for nebraska and hoffman’s family, and there’s no reason other programs shouldn’t fol­low suit. 
Some already have, as sev­eral of the nation’s top college basketball programs have begun to play early-season games for american soldiers on aircraft carriers stationed overseas. 
most teams do some sort of public outreach and chari­table work, but by putting that mission at or above the level of their least important games, they can create a true oppor­tunity to do more good on that greater stage. I’m not saying that sports are irrelevant, and I believe competition and tradition should be preserved at every level. but nebraska struck a chord last week that other teams are more than ca­pable of emulating, and really there’s no reason not to. 
So to college and profes­sional teams that are busy hyping up their next all-star game, preseason exhibition or spring game: Stop taking yourselves so seriously. 
and maybe then you can do some serious good. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NBA 
Lakers must forge a new identity without Kobe 
Associated Press 
loS angElES — The los angeles lakers’ locker room had several conspicuous ab­sences Sunday night. kobe bryant was at home in orange County after surgery on his torn achilles tendon, and Steve nash hasn’t played in seven games. 
also absent? doom, gloom and any sense the lakers are finished without kobe. 
although bryant’s season is over, dwight howard insists the lakers’ fun has just begun. 
“This is a great opportu­nity for myself and this team to show who we are,” howard said. “we’ve got to give it ev­erything we’ve got. we’re go­ing to fight to the end and do our best. despite whatever has happened this season, we’ve got a chance to win this next game, go into the playoffs and make history.” 
The all-Star center radi­ated quiet optimism after the lakers rallied in the fourth quarter to beat the powerful San antonio Spurs, putting them on the brink of a playoff spot. Eighth-place los angeles needs only a win in its sea­son finale wednesday against houston or a loss by utah in either of its final two games to clinch another postseason berth. 
although the buzz was re­spectfully tempered just a day after bryant’s surgery, the lakers’ excitement at their per­sistent, well-rounded perfor­mance against a top opponent was impossible to suppress. without the ball-dominating, sublimely talented guard who has defined the franchise for most of his 17-year career, the remaining lakers emerged with confidence they can ex­cel without kobe even if the rest of their season is only a couple of weeks long. 
“This is a great opportu­nity, so there’s no need to get down about it,” howard said. “This is a great opportunity for us to do something spe­cial and make believers out of everybody.” 

FOR RENT 
Diana Williams 2BR, 2BA, 2 car ga­rage. Privacy fence. 424 Eddy St. Call Michiana Rentals LLC 574-993-RENT (7368) 

Even after everything that’s gone wrong for the lakers’ star-studded roster this sea­son, bryant’s abrupt loss seemed over the top. perhaps that’s why the lakers still ab­sorbed it with grace and why a team that’s on a 27-12 roll since late January believes it can keep going. 
mike d’antoni suggested one of the lakers’ problems has been their excess of “alpha dogs,” or players who are used to being the star of their own show. bryant, howard, nash, gasol, metta world peace and even sixth man antawn Jamison have been the most important players on their own teams at various points in their careers, and d’antoni thinks they never had time to learn complementary roles after the new coach arrived early in the regular season. 
bryant’s absence changes just about everything for the lakers, who obviously run their offense through the ball-dominating guard currently third in the nba in scoring. howard is the biggest star in bryant’s absence, but he insists everybody must as­sume part of kobe’s enormous responsibilities. 
howard knows he must score more aggressively, and he knows he’ll get more shots from better spots. The lakers already are working to get the ball quickly into the low post to howard, who went aggres­sively at Tim duncan and the Spurs’ big men from the open­ing minutes. 
gasol plans to assume more leadership and playmak­ing duties, particularly while nash is still out of the lineup. his two championship rings give him added credibility. 
and when nash returns to run d’antoni’s preferred schemes, he’ll immediately be the lakers’ most important ball-handler, no longer defer­ring to bryant. 
bryant assumed a playmak­ing role for long stretches of this season, but also seized chances to roll up big offen­sive performances, such as 47 points in portland last week. 
The lakers can’t duplicate bryant’s play, but howard is eager to assume more leader­ship for the rest of los angeles’ season. an unrestricted free agent this summer, howard sounds comfortable at the center of the lakers’ new order. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL Boston Marathon Results 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Men’s race: Lelisa Desisa of Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has Ethiopia (2:10:22) many resources in place to assist you. Women’s race: Rita Jeptoo of Kenya If you or someone you love needs (2:26:25) confidential support or assistance, Men’s wheelchair race: Hiroyuki please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Yamamoto of Japan (1:25:32) Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more Women’s wheelchair race: Tatyana information, visit ND’s website at: McFadden of U.S.A. (1:45:24) http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 



SMC SOFTBALL 

Sullivan expresses confidence in Belles’ stamina 
after being down 4-0 [on 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
Sports writer Sunday] helped our team be­
lieve in itself and the plan 
The belles will look to over-we have to bounce back come their poor road record from errors and after facing when they head to grand adversity.” Rapids, mich., to face Calvin Sullivan said the belles at 3:30 p.m. today. hope to stay sharp despite 
The belles (12-12, 2-0 the lack of practice time. mIaa) hope to continue their The team has been unable winning streak, which began to practice outside for two when they swept manchester weeks due to rainy weather. in a doubleheader Sunday. “we plan to go out 
belles coach Erin Sullivan [monday], which will be a said Saint mary’s is at the top great change of pace from our of its game heading into the indoor practice,” Sullivan matchup against Calvin (11-said. “It is obviously much 9, 2-4). more game-like when we get 
“we have been building on the field with the dirt and confidence all year,” Sullivan grass as opposed to a gym said. “I think coming back floor.” 
paId adVERTISEmEnT 
Sullivan said although practicing inside in Saint mary’s gym is not always as effective as practicing out­side, the team was still able to improve key elements of its game. 
“Inside, we work mostly on continuing to develop and maintain strength, especial­ly core strength,” Sullivan said. “also, we spend most of our time hitting. preparing for different pitchers can be just as effective inside as outside.” 
Sullivan said Calvin has improved greatly in the last couple of years by bringing in three junior college trans­fers who have all contributed to the team’s success. 
“They also have added to their staff with a few excel­lent former collegiate play­ers,” Sullivan said. “That being said, I believe we are the stronger team. If we play to the best of our abilities, we should beat Calvin in both games.” 
a potential obstacle for the belles will be playing on the road. So far, the belles are 6-0 at home, but 6-10 on the road. 
SMC TENNIS 
They have dropped their last two road doubleheaders to north park and anderson. 
“we need to put together seven full innings in each game and not let the travel to an opposing site throw off 


By D.H. KIM 
Sports writer 
Coming off a successful week, the belles travel to the campus of michigan State to­day to take on conference ri­val adrian. 
The team rolled to two straight wins last week, our confidence on the field,” Sullivan said. 
Saint mary’s will take on Calvin today at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 
Campbell focuses on doubles 
breezing past bethel, 7-2, and edging alma, 5-4. 
belles coach dale Campbell said the pair of wins was a great confidence booster for the team, which will look to keep that momentum go­ing into Saint mary’s (8-5, 3-1 mIaa) matchup against adrian (7-8, 0-4). 
“we were very pleased with the results this past week,” Campbell said.  “It’s impor­tant to keep the streak to have momentum going into con­ference tournament.” 
The belles will look to build on the strategy that made them so successful earlier in the season — aggressive dou­bles play. 
against alma, the belles struggled in doubles, manag­ing to win one of three dou­bles games. 
according to Campbell, the focus for the belles will be on reinvigorating the doubles lineup through strong dou­bles play and aggressive net play. 
“we hope to work on sharp­ening our doubles play, at­tacking first ball and going for our shots a bit more,” Campbell said. “Setting our partner up at the net by tak­ing a bigger first shot is cer­tainly one way.” 
Campbell said the focus on doubles play would give the belles an advantage early in the match. 
“we are pretty much set for the year with our lineup, but we are still examining our doubles play,” Campbell said.  “however, I think we will work towards winning all three doubles matches so we can get an early start.” 
adrian comes in with a four-game losing streak. Sophomore co-captain audrey kiefer said the belles have beaten adrian before without much problem, but after losing her match Saturday against alma, she said preparedness would be key to winning today. 
“adrian shouldn’t be too tough, but we always have to be prepared for matches and expect close matches like alma,” kiefer said. 
Campbell said his team won’t make any assump­tions against adrian, as the belles should always be men­tally prepared for a grueling match. 
“adrian has not fared well in the conference, but we will not overlook them,” Campbell said. 
The belles hope to stay fo­cused in conference plah.as they take on adriay today at 4 
p.m. at the michigan athletic Club in East lansing, mich. 
Contact D.H. Kim at             dkim16@nd.edu 



ThE obSERVER | TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 2013 | ndSmCobSERVER.Com 

ND WOMEN’S SOFTBALL 

Momentum carries Irish to Michigan State 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports writer 
Riding the momentum of this weekend’s three-game sweep of Rutgers, the Irish square off against michigan State on Tuesday night in East lansing, mich. 
notre dame (29-10, 10-1 big East) took down the Scarlet knights by a combined score of 16-3 in the first two games of the series before defeating Rutgers, 8-6, behind seven runs in the bottom of the seventh inning. 
“The Rutgers games showed us that we can over­come anything and fight back no matter what the score,” senior catcher amy buntin said. “Everyone in the lineup did their job and executed when we needed it the most.” 
freshman catcher/out­fielder Casey africano earned a spot on the big East weekly honor Roll for her contributions during the weekend series. 
africano went 3-for-6 with a 1.667 slugging percent­age and six RbI in the three games. She added a home run during the first game Sunday against Rutgers af­ter smacking her first career home run Saturday. 
The Irish will continue to look to africano and other key hitters on the offensive end. 
Sophomore catcher Cassidy whidden, whose walk-off home run in the seventh inning capped the three-game sweep of Rutgers, also figures to play a key role offensively. 
despite the excitement of the late-game heroics, buntin said the Irish need to regain momentum quicker. 
“we learned this weekend that, when the momentum shifts to the other team, we need to do a better job of regaining that momentum back,” buntin said. 
defensively notre dame will look to junior pitcher laura winter (18-8) to hold steady on the mound. 
michigan State (21-17, 7-4 big Ten) dropped all three games to no. 12 michigan in their series this weekend. The Spartans fell 21-2 in five innings in the first game of the weekend and 11-2 in six innings in game Two before losing 8-7 in eight innings in game Three. 
Senior outfielder kylene hopkins leads the Spartans offensively with a .424 bat­ting average, ranking her seventh in the big Ten. Junior outfielder Sarah bowling leads the squad in RbIs and home runs with 30 and six, respectively. 
Junior pitcher kelly Smith (16-9) has been the ace in the michigan State circle and has posted a 2.48 ERa and 174 strikeouts in 161 innings. Smith also has recorded six shutouts on the season. 
“we’re going to approach michigan State like everyone else and worry about playing notre dame softball for sev­en innings,” buntin said. “If we can do that, we’ll be just fine [Tuesday].” 
The Irish face off with michigan State on Tuesday at 5 p.m. at Secchia Stadium in East lansing, mich. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
paId adVERTISEmEnT paId adVERTISEmEnT 






Baseball 
ConTInuEd fRom pagE 16 
“Some of these losses, it’s just the cyclical nature of baseball, you know,” he said. “I told [the team] to just keep doing what they’re doing and keep competing and keep be­ing really positive and keep sup­porting one another, and, like I said, hopefully some of these balls that we’re hitting well will find a little green grass to roll around on.” 
aoki said there is nothing in particular that his players need to tweak to get a win; instead, keep­ing a “glass-half-full” mentality might be the best solution. 
“I don’t know that I would say to our team, ‘hey, let’s change this or let’s change that,’” he said. “maybe just the only thing I would do is en­courage it, and I have encouraged our guys just to stay as positive as they can throughout a pretty frus­trating turn.” 
notre dame’s chance to turn its luck around starts today, when 

paId adVERTISEmEnT 

freshman left-handed pitcher Zak kutsulis leaves his usual position in right field to make his first start on the mound. he posted a 1.08 ERa in 10 relief appearances for the Irish. 
kutsulis will have to counter a strong wolverines batting or­der that features five players with .300-plus averages. Included in that quintet is first-year shortstop Travis maezes, named big Ten freshman of the week yesterday after hitting .467 in michigan’s last four games. 
aoki said he hopes the Irish will put the last meeting with michigan behind them and end up with a different result on a dif­ferent day. 
“I think it’s a new game, new cir­cumstances,” he said. 
The first pitch of the matchup between the Irish and wolverines will come at 4:05 p.m. from Ray fisher Stadium in ann arbor. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
Gargon 
ConTInuEd fRom pagE 16 
4-4 at halftime, gargan ex­ploded for four second-half goals and helped power the Irish to a 13-12 win over the hoyas. 
halfpenny said gargan’s play was just what the Irish needed at that time and just another example of the mid­fielder’s willingness to go the extra mile for her team. 
“She’s a player that will do what the team needs,” halfpenny said. “obviously, putting this amount of goals in gives her confidence, and she knows that she’s criti­cal to our success, so we’re thrilled with what she’s do­ing. She’s incredibly athletic and incredibly dynamic, and her poise absolutely is start­ing to be a trickle-down effect for the rest of our attackers.” 
gargan’s play may be need­ed more than ever this week­end, when the Irish travel to the Carrier dome to take on no. 5 Syracuse in a crucial conference matchup. and while gargan admits her pro­duction has been a bit incon­sistent this year, she sees no reason why she can’t contin­ue her recent tear.c 
“This season, I have been [streaky],” gargan said. “I started off a little cold, but I think I’m hitting my stride now.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 



ThE obSERVER | TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 2013 | ndSmCobSERVER.Com 


Diggins 
ConTInuEd fRom pagE 16 
diggins will put her talents to the test in the wnba against a collection of the world’s best women’s basketball players. her turnaround will have to be quick, as the Shock begin pre­season play may 9 against the atlanta dream. The regular season opens may 25. diggins said she trusts the team’s professionalism will pull the 
“The good thing is that at this point we’re all pros. ...  They know the game, and it’s just a matter of us settling into a system.” 
Skylar Diggins 
senior 
Shock together. 
“The good thing is that at this point we’re all pros,” diggins said. “They know the game, and it’s just a matter of us settling into a system.” 
born and raised in South bend, diggins will finally take her game on the road to Tulsa. In addition to adjusting to the wnba style and caliber of play, diggins will have to learn to play far from home in front of a new fan base. diggins said she is looking forward to mak­ing the move and getting to know Tulsa. 
“I’ve never owned a pair of cowboy boots,” diggins said. “Then again, I’ve never really been outside of South bend. I’m looking forward to buying a pair. … I heard the steaks are good. I’m looking forward to that.” 
The franchise has strug­gled since 2010 and finished last season with a 9-25 mark. diggins was optimistic about the Shock’s future prospects and for her own opportunity to make an impact. 
“you have a coach [gary kloppenburg] that’s just ex­cited about the future of this team,” diggins said. “I think Tulsa made some great moves getting [guard] Candice wiggins and [forward] nicole powell.” 
beyond the court, diggins has the potential to be an am­bassador for the Shock in the same way she was for notre dame. She helped the Irish reach a larger fan base with her Twitter account that garnered attention from many, includ­ing rapper lil wayne. diggins said she plans to maintain her social media presence. 
“I’ll continue to be on Twitter, that’s for sure,” diggins said. 
above all, diggins said she is excited to have an opportunity to play in the wnba. 
“I’m such a huge fan of the league and I’ve always been, and it’s such a dream come true to finally have a chance be a part of the league,” diggins said. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

paId adVERTISEmEnT 
paId adVERTISEmEnT 





CROSSWORD | wIll ShoRTZ 

Edited by Will Shortz 
PUZZLE BY BRUCE SUTPHIN AND NEVILLE FOGARTY 
41 “Bravo!” 53 Prestigious Eastern school, 44 Home of informally Damascus 
54 Does in 46 Oklahoma city 
55 Campbell’s product

49 Staring 56 ___ moth 50 Director of “Bride of the 58 Like Nash’s lama Monster” (not llama) 
60 Put six feet under 
61 ___ Reader 
62 Having protected feet 
64 Country singer McGraw 
65 A.T.M. imposition 
HOROSCOPE | EugEnIa laST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Emma watson, 23; Seth Rogen, 31; Emma Thompson, 54; Roy Clark, 80 
Happy Birthday: mix old and new ideas together. Change is good, but a force play isn’t. If something doesn’t feel right, wait until it does. you have to earn respect if you want to control your destiny. Size up what others have to offer and you will know exactly what’s expected of you. an important partnership will help you advance. your numbers are 4, 10, 16, 28, 35, 37, 69. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Share your experience and make a point to communi­cate and participate in events that will help you broaden your knowledge as well as your friendships. making personal alterations will result in good fortune. believe in yourself and follow through. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): pay more attention to what you say and how you pres­ent yourself and how you look. The impression you leave will make a difference to what you are invited to attend or join in the future. love is highlighted. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Stick to the truth. If you keep changing your mind, someone will get suspicious. put in an honest effort and be responsible. do some­thing nice for someone, but don’t give in to pressure or bullying. avoid emotional manipulation. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): follow your imagination and you’ll come up with solu­tions or ideas that will help you gain respect and support. getting involved in events or activities that contribute to your knowledge and skills will also lead to worthwhile new friendships. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll gather information if you attend a conference, seminar or any event that will broaden your skills, knowledge or experience. don’t let love stand between you and your professional goals. a change of pace, location or activi­ties will do you good. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): finish what you start and honor promises made. a costly mistake will unfold if you allow someone to push you into a risky joint venture or investment. put more time and effort into honing your skills and updating your appearance. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Think big and make the changes that will keep you happy. knowledge will be the key to getting ahead. attend any event that offers you greater experience or get involved in a personal journey that will expand your interests. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Instigate whatever it is that will help you get one step closer to your goals. Readdress any financial or medical problems that have been lingering on for too long. put love on the line and make your needs and your inten­tions clear. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): being upfront and honest about the way you think and feel may be difficult, but it will also be necessary if you want to avoid problems. put what isn’t making you happy behind you so that you can move forward posi­tively. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): bide your time, observe what everyone else does and refrain from jeopardizing your position. once you make a move it will be hard to reverse your situation. be sure or sit tight. mental and physical confrontations are possible. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): follow through with your plans. update what you have developed or considered doing in the past and you will find a way to incorporate your skills into something worthwhile. There is money to be made, but you must go through the proper channels. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): persuasion will draw the support you need to move forward with your plans. love is on the rise, but indulgence will come between you and your happiness if you aren’t careful. discipline and moderation are key to your success. 

Birthday Baby: you are versatile, adaptable and quick to make decisions. 
JUMBLE | daVId hoyT and JEff knuREk 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by David L. Hoyt and Jeff Knurek 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 

SOGEO  

 
 
 
 
 

©2013 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
DYENE  

 
 
 
 
 

CLUSPT  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 
NOWWID  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Print answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: FRONT SWEPT FICKLE RATHERYesterday’s 
Answer: The author’s expenses related to doing researchfor a new book would be — WRITTEN OFF 

Across 1 “Dragnet” force, 
in brief 5 Spirited steed 9 Bid 
14 Calculus calculation 
15 City with Aces Ballpark 
16 Good news on Wall Street 
17 Finishing up 
20 ___ of time 
21 “Miami Vice” informant 
22 Baths 
23 Affirmatives 
25 Cleveland’s lake 
27 “The way I see it,” briefly 
30 Window-shopping locale 
35 Avril follower 
36 Go after 
37 Hidden shooter 
38 Shaw of the big band era 
40 VCR button 42 President with a 
Nobel Prize 
43 Chessmen, e.g. 
45 What a vegan 
vetoes 
47 Be an agent for, in brief 
48 Great source of humor 
50 Some airport announcements, 
for short 
51 TV host Banks 
52 Set (down) 
54 Where the 
Storting sits 
57 Polo competitor 
59 “Little Miss 
Sunshine” vehicle 
63 Ponce de León’s quest 
66 Spore spreaders 
67 Hawaiian bird 
68 TV’s “Deal ___ Deal” 
69 Hiccup, e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
70 Elation 71 Like Easter eggs 
Down 1 Acts 2 La Scala 
performance 3 One of the 
53-Downs 4 Cool cat 5 Prince Valiant’s 
son 6 Checkout sight 7 DreamWorks’s 
first animated film 8 Sot 9 Tolkien meanie 10 Bone of the lower chest 
11 Big failure 12 “Born Free” lioness 
13 Some whiskeys 18 British suffix with formal 19 Actor Lew 24 Enzyme suffix 26 Otherwise 27 Apple ad line 28 Lopez of “Extra” 29 “___ where they ain’t” 31 Vermont ski resort 32 Dazzling gallery display 
33 Home of the lion that Hercules slew 
34 Snares 36 Disreputable 39 Champagne 
bucket implement 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChRISTophER bRuCkER 

LOWER YOUREXPECTATIONS |lEnnyRago& paTRICk CRoSS 



For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay.Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | ThE mEpham gRoup 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, In 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 
City State Zip 


ThE obSERVER | TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 2013 | ndSmCobSERVER.Com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Getting Shocked 
Tulsa Shock drafts Irish senior guard Skylar Diggins in third overall pick 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
Sports writer 
It has to be a big deal if it’s on in primetime, and that’s where the wnba draft was Tuesday night. 
The Tulsa Shock selected notre dame’s senior guard Skylar diggins with the third overall pick. 
The Shock snagged diggins after the phoenix mercury selected baylor senior center brittney griner with the no. 1 pick and the Chicago Sky took delaware senior forward Elena della donne at no. 2. The star power of the top-three pros­pects made this the first wnba draft to grab the media spot­light, but diggins expressed deep respect for the league she is about to join and its efforts to grow. 
“you have to come in with a level of respect for the play­ers that came in before you and paved the way for you,” diggins said. “within a mat­ter of minutes, I went from be­ing a fan to wearing a different hat and being a team member. I’m still giddy in my little-kid moment.” 
Tulsa will gain an experi­enced leader and multi-faceted talent in diggins. diggins was unanimously named to the associated press all-america first team and earned the nancy lieberman award as the nation’s best point guard. She recorded 2,357 total points, 745 assists and 557 rebounds in her notre dame career. diggins said she will strive to bring the same game and work ethic to the wnba. 
“I just really want to go in and do whatever is asked of me,” diggins said. “I want to bring in that competitive na­ture and work ethic and be that leader that I was for four years at [notre dame].” 
see dIggInS PAGE 14 

BASEBALL 

Losing streak looms over ND 
By MARY GREEN 
Sports writer 
as baseball great yogi berra would say, it’s déjà vu all over again for no. 20 notre dame, who will head to ann arbor, mich., to face michigan for the second time in a week. last Tuesday, the Irish (19-14, 4-8 big East) fell 4-1 to the wolverines (20-14, 7-2 big Ten), which marked their second consecu­tive loss. notre dame’s losing streak has since increased to five games, as the Irish have not won since april 6. 
after dropping the game to michigan and one to Villanova, pittsburgh swept the Irish in a three-game series this week­end. notre dame managed only eight hits combined in the first two games of the series. but with the exception of their last game, the Irish have lost each contest by four runs or fewer. In friday’s loss to the panthers, notre dame players made con­tact in 17 of 32 at-bats but only had three hits. 
Irish coach mik aoki said he believes the losing streak is just a result of bad luck and unfor­tunate circumstances that are common in baseball. 
see baSEball PAGE 13 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
gargan dominates from midfield 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports writer 
It’s been a heck of a ride for no. 7 notre dame, as the team jumped out and tied the best start to a season (10-0) in program history. and while the red-hot Irish hit a bit of a speed bump in suffering their first loss in double overtime to no. 17 loyola on friday, notre dame was jumped right back on the gas thanks to the team’s driving force: sophomore midfielder Caitlin gargan. 
after a slow start to her sec­ond season, gargan has come on strong over the past few weeks. She broke out of her shell with four goals and six points against Villanova on march 24, and gargan helped keep the Irish in the game 
against  loyola with a hat  
trick.  
Irish  coach  Christine  

halfpenny said gargan’s emergence has allowed the team to construct an offense around her and notre dame’s other playmakers. 
“She drives this offensive bus for us,” halfpenny said of gargan. “She loves the spread offense. … It’s not her fitting the offense; she’s actually helping us build that offense. we’re building it around her and all the other threats, so it’s really nice to see that chemistry take form.” 
gargan’s surge has helped push the sophomore into the starting lineup, after she came off of the bench as a freshman and earlier this season. The new york na­tive said being a starter has helped her perform even bet­ter, as it’s easier to get into the game when she starts playing from the opening whistle. 
“It’s a lot of fun,” gargan said. “you don’t have to be the guy every time, but when you’re in the starting lineup, you get to be in the flow a little bit more and have more opportunities.” 
That flow was on full dis­play Sunday as the Irish tried to bounce back from their friday loss against no. 8 georgetown, arguably the toughest team notre dame has faced all season. knotted 
see gaRgon PAGE 13 






