ThE INdEPENdENT TO uNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVING ThE TRuTh NOTRE dAmE ANd ANd REPORT SAINT mARy’S IT ACCuRATELy 

VOLumE 46, ISSuE 81 | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY  1, 2013 | NdSmCObSERVER.COm 
‘I tried every other way to end this’ 
Tuiasosopo speaks publicly for the first time about posing as Lennay Kekua to Manti Te’o 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
News Writer 
Ronaiah Tuiasosopo fell as deeply in love as manti Te’o did. 
Tuiasosopo, the master­mind behind the fictional Lennay kekua, spoke publicly Thursday to dr. Phil mcGraw on “dr. Phil.” For the first time since the hoax was revealed, Tuiasosopo offered his side of the story. 
“I grew feelings, I grew emo­tions that sooner or later I couldn’t control anymore and it just lingered on,” Tuiasosopo said in the interview, the sec­ond part of which will air today. “As twisted and confusing as it may be, yeah, I cared for this person. I did all that I could to help this person become a better person, even though I wasn’t getting nothing out of it.” 
When mcGraw asked Tuiasosopo if he was gay, Tuiasosopo said he was confused. 
The 22-year old confessed to being behind the scam and said he did not perpetrate the hoax in order to gain money. he also added that his plan was cruel 
— but not a cruel joke — and that Te’o had no involvement. 
“he said nothing but things about her heart and her charac­ter had had a major impact on him and though it was decep­tive, there was a lot of positive that came out of it,” Tuiasosopo said. “he really did fall in love with this character and, you know, it is what it is.” 
Tuiasosopo said he deployed kekua’s leukemia as a plan to try to end things with Te’o. 
“I tried every other way to end this. I tried this lie and this lie and this lie but nothing would work,” Tuiasosopo said. 
So on Sept. 12, 2012, Tuiasosopo killed off kekua, who had purportedly been bat­tling leukemia, just hours after Te’o’s grandmother died. 
Tuiasosopo also said Te’o and kekua broke up two weeks earlier but continued to com­municate. Tuiasosopo — who had access to Te’o’s passwords 
— checked on his Facebook, 
Twitter and Skype accounts. While there were no changes 
see TE’O PAGE 5 



Coach sings with met 
By ANN MARIE JA KUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
When Notre dame vocal instructor deborah mayer caught word of an audition opportunity with the New york metropolitan Opera, she had one week’s notice to make her lifelong dream a reality. 
mayer, who teaches voice 


Campus to go ‘greener’ 

dorms get to choose the Linda kurtos, direc-
By EVELYN HUANG 

News Writer prizes based on how many tor of sustainability, said 
times they’ve won.” the Office will jump-start 
This semester, the Office myles Robertson, intern Recyclemania on Feb. 3, of Sustainability is re-and program coordinator joining a national move-charging its annual Energy in the Office, said the Office ment toward campus Competition and renewing also altered the structure sustainability. 
initiatives to make campus even “greener.” 
beginning Feb. 4, the Office will sponsor “mega-Watt madness,” a three-week energy conservation competition that will pit dorms against each other of this competition from previous contests to ac­commodate each dorm’s unique characteristics. 

“Each dorm will be matched up with a dorm similar to themselves, such as being built around the 
“Recyclemania is a com­petition where colleges and universities around the country compete to recycle the most and to reduce the amount of waste going into landfills,” kurtos said. 
The Office will also con-

in three separate events,  same time, and having  tinue programs that have  Lee Svete, who currently serves as  
education and outreach  similar heating or cooling  been successful in the  Associate Vice President of Career  
program manager Rachel  systems,” Robertson said.  past, such as the Green  and Professional development  



Career Center gets new director 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
Notre dame’s well-respected Career Center came under new leadership when hilary Flanagan assumed her role as director less than three weeks ago. 
Former Career Center director 



lessons at the university, 
will perform the role of Gerhilde in “die Walkure” this spring. The opera is part of German composer 
see OPERA PAGE 5 
Novick said. 
“This competition has better odds, because each week is a new chance to win,” she said. “At the end of the three weeks, the “This reshaping of the com­petition also means that dorms who get behind will not get discouraged and that people will be more inclined to participate.” 

discovery program, which kurtos said strives to make labs on campus greener and is “going really well.” 
see GREEN PAGE 5 

in the Office of Student Affairs, sought out Flanagan to take over his position based on her six years of experience as director of career 
see CAREER PAGE 4 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Courtney Cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: monica mcCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of Notre dame du Lac and Saint mary’s 
College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, managing Editor, 
Assistant managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTmASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


What is the last thing that made you laugh? 


Amy Hidalgo 

Dani Gies 

freshman 
junior 

Welsh Family hall 
Ryan hall 

“The final harry Potter movie.” 
“kirby mckenna.” 

Genette Gaffney 
senior 
Walsh hall 
“beyonce’s press conference today.” 



Meghan Eastman 
senior 
off-campus 

“my bio stats professor’s cheesy jokes.” 

Murphy Stephens 
senior 
Fisher hall 
“The last ski team party I attended.” 



Stephanie Wehmeier 
sophomore 
Lewis hall 

“It was a pun. I can’t remember it..” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
kristen durbin Cory bernard Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
marisa Iati Isaac Lorton bridget Feeney Greg hadley katie mcCarty 

Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Graphics maddie daly brandon keelean 
Viewpoint 

Lewis Hall of Women’s Basketball Sunday Mass New Media Dialogue Spring Town Hall 
Photo Laura Rosas Grant Tobin Pancakes: LHOP Joyce Center Basilica of the Sacred O’ Shaughnessy Hall Meeting Lewis Hall 2:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m. Heart 5:00 p.m. Washington Hall 
10:00p.m.- 1:00 a.m. ND vs. Cincinnati. 11:45 p.m.-12:45 p.m. “From the Middle Ages 11:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

All-you-can-eat Mass. to the Digital Age.” Q&A with Father The Observer regards itself as breakfast for $3. Jenkins. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Men’s and Women’s Time to Write Men’s Tennis Show: “The Gospel Four:7 Catholic 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Track Workshop Eck Tennis Pavilion According to Josh.” Fellowship 
however, recognize that we will make 
Loftus Sports Center Coleman-Morse 12:00 p.m.-2:00 p.m. Geddes Hall Cavanugh Hall 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
4:00p.m.- 9:30 p.m. Center ND vs. Duke. 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Meyo Invitational. 10:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. One-man show about Student-led 
we can correct our error. 
RSVP online. actor Josh Rivedal. fellowship. 



CBL courses encourage community service 
By LILY McGILL 
News Writer 
Each semester, Notre dame’s Spanish department, in conjunction with the Center for Social Concerns (CSC), of­fers community-based learn­ing (CbL) courses that allow students to integrate their Spanish language learning with community service at various partner organizations in South bend. 
“Any community-based learning program is going to be coming from a per­spective of mutuality,” said Rachel Parroquin, director of Spanish service learning. “We’re looking for ways that are going to be helpful for the community partners but also meet the learning goals of our students.” 
Parroquin said student in­volvement in CbL programs allows for interaction with na­tive speakers, language skill improvement and intercul­tural competence. 
“It’s almost like a mini-im­mersion,” she said. “Getting off campus, getting to the community, having to negoti­ate meaning, having to figure out ways to say things, it defi­nitely helps them to work on strategies.” 
Parroquin said students in CbL programs have the op­portunity to participate in ac­tivities including mentoring middle school students, read­ing aloud with preschoolers in Spanish and participating in a Latino outreach program through memorial hospital. 
“We try to have a variety of programs in terms of student interests,” she said. 
The CbL program works consistently with more than a dozen community partners, including La Casa de Amistad, El Campito, South bend Community Schools and the Sister maura brannick health Center. 
The impact of the CbL pro­gram on its partners has been enormous, totaling over 3,400 
“It’s almost like a mini-immersion. Getting off campus, getting to the community, having to negotiate meaning, having to figure out ways to say things, it definitely helps them to work on strategies.” 
Rachel Parroquin 
director 
Spanish service learning 
hours of community time in the 2011-12 academic year, Parroquin said. 
Parroquin said programs have experienced growth and expansion, especially youth-centered programs, such as La Casa de Amistad’s ¡Adelante! youth development Program. 
“Last spring [La Casa de Amistad] had their first group of the ¡Adelante! students that Professor [marisel] moreno’s classes had worked with all graduate from high school and all go on to some kind of either university, culinary school, or some kind of pro­gram with scholarships,” Parroquin said. 
Spanish CbL currently com­prises three components, Parroquin said. At the inter­mediate level, about 10 to 15 percent of students choose to participate in a CbL program to satisfy the experiential learning component of their Spanish requirements. 
This semester, Parroquin teaches a new class titled “Language, Culture and Community” that requires students to commit to a mini­mum of 10 hours of service. 
“The focus of this class has to do with immigration issues, looking closely at the South bend community and how it’s impacted by immigration,” she said. “What are the issues that the Latino community, recent immigrants especially, have to face?” 
At the senior level, moreno teaches “migrant Voices: Latino Literature through Service-Learning” and “Race and Ethnicity in u.S. Latino Literature,” both of which re­quire two hours of commu­nity service per week. 
Parroquin said the Spanish department’s Community-based Learning program con­tinues to grow with the help of the CSC and will be adding new courses in the future. 
Contact Lily McGill at lmcgill@nd.edu 

Professor discusses Aquinas, natural law 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 
A boston College profes­sor connected Saint Thomas Aquinas’’ themes of solidar­ity, justice and natural law witohcontemporary global feminism in a lecture at Saint mary’s on Thursday 
dr. Lisa Sowle Cahill’s talk, titled “Aquinas and Natural Law: Resources for Women’s Equality,” was part of the College’s 16th Annual Symposium on Aquinas. It took place in the Student Center Lounge. 
Although Aquinas did not participate in the modern women’s move­ment, his ideas directly relate to contemporary Catholic social teaching, Cahill said. She said bring­ing Aquinas’ theory of nat­ural law, which takes a ‘do good, avoid evil’ approach, into modern dialogue aids discussion about feminist t heolog y. 
“This natural law theory, applied equitably with a 20th century lens, results in a basic notion of jus­tice for all,” Cahill said. “Ethics of natural law offer modern Catholic feminists a solid base to seek equal­ity and combat global problems.” 
Cahill said human be­ingsbmust be responsible forleach other. Solidarity should extend farther than a neighborhood or com­munity and should cross cultures and religions, she said. modern-day slavery, also known as human traf­ficking, is an important is­sue facing contemporary feminism, Cahill said. 
“We have all this public rhetoric, but at the con­crete level, there are more slaves in the world today than ever before,” she said. 
In order to increase gen­der equality, Cahile said the worldtmust valun four themes: lifting up women through empowerment and allowing them to prove their own capabilities, fo­cusing on the preferential option for the poor and vulnerable, creating cross-cultural dialogue, and calling men and women to seek human flourishing for all persons. 
“Justice is a virtue that governs right relationships in society”” Cahill said. “human laws and prac­tices should be based on justice. Justice is rooted in Aquinas’ natural law t heor y.” 
dr. Joseph Incandela, the Joyce mcmahon hank Aquinas Chair in Catholic Theology, sponsored the symposium. 
“having Aquinas lec­tures at a Catholic col­lege is a very significant way of calling attention to the ultimate harmony be­tween faith and reason,” Incandela said. “Catholics colleges are founded on that harmony and work on the convergence of this ap­proach with a significant em­phasis on education.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

PAId AdVERTISEmENT ThE ObSERVER | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY  1, 2013 | NdSmCObSERVER.COm 



Career 
CONTINuEd FROm PAGE 1 
services at John Carroll university. 
“I was really excited when Lee reached out and asked me to consider the position because it seemed like one of those once-in-a-lifetime opportunities, and I didn’t want to pass it by,” Flanagan said. 
Flanagan, who also serves as president-elect of the midwest Association of Colleges and Employers, said her previous pro­fessional and general experience will prove valuable in her new po­sition at Notre dame. 
“I think I can bring my experi­ences, not just in career services but also my life experiences, to help lead this highly successful, well-functioning career services team and hopefully take us into the next chapter of what’s kind of shaping up to be a new world of work and new groups of students with everything new in technol­ogy,” she said. 
A graduate of the u.S. Coast Guard Academy, Flanagan said she continually pursues challenging opportunities like taking the helm of Notre dame’s Career Center. 
“Throughout my entire life, I’ve always gravitated toward chal­lenges and the kinds of people who also seek challenges out and re­ally thrive in that kind of environ­ment,” she said. 
The university’s academic reputation and high-achieving student body also drew Flanagan to South bend. 
“Certainly working with the stu­dents here attracted me because this is a place where excellence is the standard,” she said. “It’s not something you’re striving for, it’s what exists. It’s the students, it’s the faculty, it’s everyone who’s here, so to be at a place where that’s the bar and that most people are going well above that is pretty exciting.” 
Flanagan said one of her goals for her work with both undergrad­uate and graduate students is to change their overall perception of working with the Career Center. 
“We want to get people out of the mindset that the Career Center is that place you show up at during second semester senior year to get a job,” she said. “With the way things are now, we would be doing [students] a disservice as an insti­tution if the Career Center was just that old placement model.” 
Flanagan said the first step to­ward altering the Center’s public reputation is exposing students to its services as early as possible, especially through the creation of new career service-oriented cours­es for first-year students. 
“It’s about starting with [stu­dents] as freshmen, that self-as­sessment piece … that whole idea of networking, your social media presence, the way you present yourself professionally, it’s much more about personal brand,” she said. “That’s really what career de­velopment is about. It’s well beyond developing a resume.” 

Flanagan said Svete’s promo­tion helped solidify support from the university administration for career services, which in turn will promote “discernment across cam­pus as a concept.” 
“There will be lots of new initia­tives that won’t be siloed here but will be really collaborative across campus partners, so the Career Center will fit into … that synergy that’s here,” she said. 
Flanagan said the university community outside campus, from alumni networking to positive 
PAId AdVERTISEmENT 
relationships with employers who 
recruit heavily at Notre  dame,  
plays  a  crucial  role  in  career  
development.  

“Notre dame’s community beyond the students — alumni, people who are natural champions of the university even without tan­gible ties to it — is a great resource for us,” she said. “The challenge in there is making sure we’re getting students to really think in terms of … using those resources in the best possible way. What’s great is Notre dame has the community support to make things happen.” 
during her adjustment to life at Notre dame, Flanagan said she has already taken note of the unique community aspect of the university in her interactions with students. 
“I met with a freshman before the Career Fair, and afterward he told me about his really successful experience and followed up with a thank-you note the next morn­ing,” she said. “To experience what I thought would be true [about Notre dame] but have it happen that quickly is pretty amazing. It’s one thing to hear it, but it’s another to experience it.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 




Te’o 
CONTINuEd FROm PAGE 1 
on Te’o’s Facebook and Twitter, his Skype was different. When Tuiasosopo, posing as kekua, asked Te’o if he had been Skyping other girls, the two got in an argument before Te’o said his grandmother died. 
Tuiasosopo said the fight quieted down until Te’o texted kekua admitting to Skyping other girls and said he didn’t need kekua. 
“It hurt me,” Tuiasosopo said. “It hit me like a brick wall. I was like, ‘Whoa, I’ve given so much into this.’ And I realized right then in that moment, that I poured so much into Lennay, that I myself was getting noth­ing, and look what I was left with. 
“Right then and there, I made the decision I can’t do this Lennay thing anymore and I ended it.” 
but nearly three months later, Te’o received a call from kekua, who he thought had al­ready died. Tuiasosopo said he called because he wanted Te’o to know the truth. 
“If the truth wasn’t known, it wouldn’t truly be moving on. It wasn’t the truth,” Tuiasosopo said. “I knew I needed to come clean and make everything right.” 
Te’o said Tuiasosopo offered him a full apology two weeks ago. 
Te’o and Tuiasosopo, who was acting as a family member of kekua, met the night before the uSC game in November in Los Angeles. Tuiasosopo said he wanted to confess to Te’o then but ultimately decided not to. 
“I wanted to tell him every­thing right then and there and that’s the truth,” Tuiasosopo said. “but shortly after, his uncle and a lot of his uncle’s friends and some other family, they all came in … It wasn’t the right time.” 
Tuiasosopo also said he was the voice behind the phone calls and voicemails to Te’o al­though previous reports said a cousin of Tuiasosopo’s was the voice. 
mcGraw asked Tuiasosopo to duplicate the voice but he initially declined. The pro­gram promised to air it during Friday’s show. 
“dr. Phil” airs locally on weekdays at 3 p.m. on WSbT. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


Green 
CONTINuEd FROm PAGE 1 
“We are currently work­ing with 49 percent of the labs in the College of Science, and we are just starting with the College of Engineering,” she said. 
kurtos said the Office of Sustainability uses a Green Loan Fund to make the ini­tial payments for newer and more efficient equipment. As a lab saves money due to reductions in energy use, it pays the loan back, she said. 
Novick said the Office hopes to continue this pro­gram and impact all labs at the university. 
“We do audits in the labs almost every week, and we are hoping to reach all of the labs on campus,” she said. “We will probably have reached all of them in another year.” 
The Office also utilizes “Green Commissioners,” which are students who help raise sustainability awareness in their respec­tive dorms, Robertson said. 
“These commission­ers meet monthly to talk about upcoming events, and provide feedback on our programs around cam­pus, which is why we are reshaping the dorm energy competition this semester,” he said. 
kurtos said the Office is continually finding differ­ent ways to reduce waste and increase awareness of its programs. 
“Our goal is to see which of our continuing processes are working the best for us and to look for some new ideas on how to get where we should be going,” she said. “We keep trying to find ways to keep people in­terested in sustainability.” 
Robertson said campus-wide participation and en­thusiasm are key to making 
“Our goal is to see which of our continuing processes are working the best for us and to look for some new ideas on how to get where we should be going ... We keep trying to find ways to keep people interested in sustainability. 
Myles Robertson 
intern, program coordinator 
Office of Sustainability 
the campus more sustain­able and encouraged stu­dents to share their ideas with the Office. 
“Participate and bring ideas. We are always open to how you see sustainabil­ity at the university,” he said. “more than anything, keep the hype up.” 
Contact Evelyn Huang at ehuang1@nd.edu 
anniversary of Wagner’s 
Opera 
birth.  
CONTINuEd FROm PAGE 1 

“my manager told me they Richard Wagner’s “Ring needed someone to fill a Cycle,” which mayer said particular role that was be-the Opera is performing in ing vacated, so I prepared its entirety this spring to the music with a week’s no-commemorate the 200th tice,” mayer said. “It was one 
PAId AdVERTISEmENT 

of those things where some­one says ‘jump’ and all you can say is ‘okay, how high?’ It was nerve-wracking.” 
mayer, a soprano, had au­ditioned for the met in the past, but said this honor is a unique and exciting mo­ment in her career. 
“Anytime that any singer has the honor to sing some­thing of Richard Wagner’s, that’s quite exciting,” mayer said. “What young girl doesn’t want to sing at the metropolitan Opera? I feel like I’ve been waiting for the met my whole life.” 
mayer said she spent 10 years training and perform­ing in Europe before coming to South bend to continue her career as a teacher. This rendition of the Ring Cycle is more modern than most, according to mayer, and the logistical challenges of the stage and set will be unlike anything she has previously encountered.
 “The big issue with this production is the new set 
— it’s sort of like big teeter-totters, where the whole floor moves and hydraulics are involved and there are computerized productions and all,” mayer said. “There will be a lot of climbing and movement, and the show really will be built around the set.” 
Another major challenge will be endurance and stam­ina, since “die Walkure” is a four-and-a-half hour opera. mayer said her per­
“What young girl doesn’t want to sing at the Metropolitian Opera? I feel like I’ve been waiting for the Met my whole life.” 
Deborah Mayer 
vocal instructor 
Department of Music 
sonal preparation includes hours of working out and training physically for the role, which includes chore­ography stylistically com­parable to that of Cirque du Soleil. 
“They’ve been clear with this interpretation of the ‘Ring Cycle’ and actually with opera in general that it’s all becoming much more visual,” mayer said. “Everyone needs to be fit. They want everyone to look a certain way on stage.” 
mayer said the Wagner Ring Cycle can be thought of as a story with four chapters, in which “die Walkure” is the second and most widely-recognized. Typically, each chapter is presented as its own eve­ning performance, with a single Cycle performed over four days. The show will open in April, and the ‘Ring Cycle’ will be performed in its entirety three times over three weeks. 
mayer will be able to fly back and forth between New york and Indiana to contin­ue teaching throughout the performance run. She said she makes a priority of shar­ing her stage experiences with her students to prepare them for future careers in performance. 
“There are things you can only learn and teach to your students by being on your feet, on the stage,” mayer said. “It’s interesting, be­cause [the other met per­formers] are people whose careers I’ve been watching for 10 or 15 years as a stu­dent myself, and it is a great honor to share the stage with them this spring.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 


Just breathe 

Groundhog day 

Christian Myers 
News Writer 

before I begin, I’d like to respond to all my fans who claim I always choose an Inside Column that coincides with a holiday so I can say something silly or sarcastic, and thus avoid writing anything real. To them I say:yes ... and there is nothing you can do about it. 
Chances are you don’t believe me. Chances are you’ve bought into the propa­ganda, but the fact is Groundhogday is the greatest holiday ever. 
unlike other holidays, Groundhogday offers suspense. I mean sure, the first time around it was a miracle the oil lasted for eight days, but after a few thousand years it gets a bit predictable; same goes for the rest. The great thing is we don’t know what is going to happen Feb. 2; Phil may see his shadow, he may not. This uncertainty, coupled with the importance of knowing the amount of winter weather remaining, means Groundhogday builds up a level of suspense that simply cannot be replicated, no matter how much Ryan Seacrest wishes it could. 
Another quality that makes Groundhog day great is that it brings people together. On Saturday, everyone will join together, fingers crossed, in willing Punxsutawney Phil to see his shadow. We all want to hold on to our glorious winter as long as possible and Groundhogday serves to remind us of that beautiful shared desire. 
We must also keep in mind that Punxsutawney Phil is a man, or rather mar­mot, of the people. While other holiday fig­ures break into homes in the middle of the night or leave the glad-handing to imper­sonatorsat the mall,PunxsutawneyPhil gets down and dirty (literally — he lives in a hole in the ground). Phil is a marmot of simple tastes and when Punxsutawnians need him, he shows up and humbly does his thing.he may not be a mainstream holiday figure, but his loyal cult following shows his connection to the common man is still strong. 
In fact, the only problem with Groundhog day is we underutilize this wonderful re­source. Why do we only ask this clairvoyant rodent, this Sciuridae seer, what the weather will be like for a month and a half? Now let me be clear, I am not saying we should overwork or exploit Phil — he’s a friend 
—I’m simply saying we should give the Punxsutawney prophet a chance to do more good with his gift. The Superbowl is com­ing up; why not have Phil tell us how many touchdowns to expect fromkaepernick? Wouldn’t it be great to know when the next economic crisis, technological break­through or celebrity break-up will come to pass? Just saying. 
In the end, let’s all just be thankful that when February rolls around, we can rely on an oracular ground squirrel instead of that “science” stuff for accurate weather forecasting. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 
The question comes with a sudden feeling of anxiety and desperation, a sense of nausea in the pits of our stomachs. but we’ve settled into spring semester, and we can’t seem to avoid it: 
“do you know what you’re doing this summer yet?” 
Or even worse: “do you know what you’re doing after graduation?” 
Cringe. 

On Tuesday, we abandoned traditional sweats and denim for suit coats and pencil skirts, ties and button-down blouses. We dodged our friends who are hap­pily employed come may and set out for the college student’s hunting ground — the Career Fair. The stu­dent body is job-searching with near-desperation now as the year rounds into its final turn, and we try not to visibly sweat through our perfectly ironed clothes as we chat up recruiters with a hunger for something, anything. 
by today, most of those recruiters from Tuesday’s Career Fair have headed home, briefcases heavier with the weight of stacks of résumés. but the panic remains for those who have not yet settled on their summer plans or post-grad employment. To those still in freak-out mode, we have one piece of advice: breathe. 
We’re all here because we eventually have to leave for somewhere else. We’ll need to find those internships, service opportunities and jobs — and we need to put in hard work to find them. but we also need to stop step­ping on our own toes as we search for the perfect job or the cookie-cutter internship to pad our resumés. 
When the semester ends, we will step off this campus in may with the advantages of our Notre dame educa­tion, an education that prompts us to view the world holistically and with a distinct sense of self. but when we leave our classrooms and take that next step, we are not done learning. We choose a major based on what we want to study, but also what we think we want to do with our lives. but as we continue to study and work, we continue to learn about ourselves. Our internships and jobs are an education in themselves. 
Alumnus Thom browne earned a degree in accoun­tancy in 1988, and he is now a successful fashion de­signer, recently acclaimed as the designer of michelle Obama’s checkered coat from Inauguration day. Irish football coach brian kelly majored in political science at Assumption College and worked for a massachusetts state senator before he began to coach football. Former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice studied piano at the beginning of her undergraduate career, but ended up pursuing a graduate degree in government and in­ternational studies from Notre dame. 
higher education has empowered these gradu­ates. They trusted the lessons they learned here and elsewhere to guide them as they traveled away from campus, and as they charted their own courses, they continued to learn. 
As we prepare to join their alumni ranks, we’re look­ing for our first internships and our first jobs that will eventually contribute to our careers. And when we job search, we have the chance to try something new and unexpected, to take that next step and walk off the beaten path. We have the chance to move somewhere that’s not Chicago. We have the chance to challenge ourselves and to change our minds. 
We have the chance to find our own brand of success, whether it is in medicine or business, service work or government. No matter where we go, we can and will continue to learn along the way. 
So we can brush up our résumés and polish our busi­ness shoes. but we can also remember, in the middle of it all, to just breathe. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Chop your own wood and it will warm you twice.” 
Henry Ford 

American industrialist 




ThE ObSERVER | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY  1, 2013 | NdSmCObSERVER.COm 
The GOP’s electoral groundhog game 
Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 

Tomorrow is another Groundhog day when Punxsutawney Phil pops his head above ground for the annual spring weather prognostication that hinges upon whether or not he casts a shadow. Spotting his shadow brings six more weeks of winter since it frightens him back into his hole. Ironically, a few miles away, Pennsylvania democrats continue their Whac-A-mole fight against a long, diabolical shadow cast by state Republican legislators across the commonwealth’s presidential elec­toral process. The GOP has proposed a redistribution of the electoral wealth by drastically changing the state’s Electoral College distribution to favor their highly partisan and currently Republican-tilted redrawn congressional district maps. democrats hope exposing their blatant shadowy electoral rigging will force the GOP to back down like frightened groundhogs. 
historically, Pennsylvania is a presiden­tial swing state with a reliably democratic blue tint. The GOP — unable to win state­wide during the last several cycles and last year actually falling short by a mil­lion votes in the overall tally across all of their gerrymandered districts — simply wants to dismantle the winner-takes-all electoral rules. Their fabrication would dilute votes from democratic strongholds in several key swing states currently un­der GOP control that, enacted across the board, collectively would have changed last year’s election to favor Republican presidential nominee, mitt Romney.
 Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus endorsed the scheme saying “states that have been consistently blue that are fully controlled red ought to” consider the change. The GOP-hatched ploy seeks to also change Ohio, Florida, michigan, Wisconsin and Virginia — all currently controlled by Republicans but won by President Obama twice. The rules-changing ploy purpose­fully dilutes the one-person, one-vote principle, especially in urban areas where African-Americans, Asian Americans, hispanics, the college-educated, gays and non-religious voters — mostly democrats who twice overwhelming supported Obama — live in heavy concentrations.
 Republicans reason they must either suppress their opponents’ electoral power at the ballot box or divide democratic strength. Priebus encourages this sys­tematic rigging to help elect a Republican without actually winning a majority of the vote. bowing to fringe ideas that did not earn majority support last year, the GOP, absently changing its policies, needs to rig a handful of states now to compete in the 2016 election. Priebus calculates an Electoral College redistribution based on currently gerrymandered congressional districts that will keep the GOP competi­tive regardless of policy flaws. 
his plot is simple. The state winner would not earn all of the state’s electoral votes. Votes would be awarded one elec­toral vote at a time to the winner of each congressional district. The two electoral votes of each u.S. senator would be piled onto the already skewed congressional districts’ winner regardless of the total statewide vote. using just Pennsylvania and Virginia as examples, President Obama won all 33 electoral votes while Romney won none. The GOP scheme would award Romney a 24-9 advantage despite losing by 300,000 and 150,000 votes respectively. 
democrats need to be loud and clear 
— the loser always loses in a fair election. Republicans currently control various reliably democratic states merely by hap­penstance, having won control during the decennial year. That alone is not license to decimate precedence or ethical gov­erning for a decade. Should democrats lessen Romney’s electoral totals in reli­ably fire-engine red Texas, Georgia and Arizona as their consolation? If so, the national popular vote might as well de­termine elections, which currently also favors democrats. 
democrats need to counter these rules changes through legislation or ballot initiatives by creating unbiased, nonpar­tisan commissions to redraw the congres­sional districts before any electoral vote redistribution. Assuredly that would re­duce the atypical number of Republicans presently in congress. It will also forever kill the amoeba-shaped districts and preserve community borders.
 Interestingly, Pennsylvania tradition­ally exercised parity regardless of govern­mental party control. The longstanding precedence — prior to the 2000 and 2010 Republican-drawn “amoeba” congres­sional maps — maintained the principal of “wholeness,” that is, of maintaining as many complete and natural municipal divisional lines. most of the 67 counties were not divided. The few divided coun­ties preserved the integrity of townships and municipalities. districts remained quite stable without looking like amoeba with spider-legs, salamander fins and trapezoid edges.
 Parity existed for three decades from Watergate and the Reagan landslide through the bill Clinton and Newt Gingrich elections. democrats peaked with a 13-10 edge while Republicans held an 11-10 edge after the state lost seats. Since then, however, the Pennsylvania GOP has shamelessly created disfigured districts, even splitting my small home­town, Canonsburg, along certain streets to dilute the impact of traditionally reliant democratic votes. Republicans gained a 12-7 edge that was washed out by anti-bush sentiment to favor democrats 11-8. but in 2012, Pennsylvania Republicans recreated a 13-5 delegation advantage through grotesque tentacle-looking dis­tricts that split a majority of counties and major cities to dilute their natural com­munity vote.
 As national voter demographics evolve, the 2016 presidential contest just may hinge on newly trending blue states like Texas, Georgia and Arizona. That loom­ing shadow portends a Republican winter longer than six years. In any case, be thankful the GOP does not forecast the weather. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His col­umn appears every other Friday. Contact him at: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Enjoy the snow 
I am perfectly content to wait for spring Perhaps more than bringing people regularly spend tens of millions of dollars 
Jack Rooney 
The Liberal medium 

Last monday, our humble campus was finally blessed with one of mother Nature’s most truly magnificent gifts: snow. To some of us on campus, this powdery white precipitation might be viewed as a nuisance, to others, a novelty. All of us, however, have made the transi­tion from sneakers and Sperrys to uggs (and less feminine winter footwear) and from t-shirts and hoodies to bulky yet remarkably cozy coats. Why? because this is the midwest, and no matter where we hail from, we have to play by the rules — the cold, windy, sometimes soul-crushing rules of winter. 
Some of us, like myself, have grown up with snow. We have participated in countless snowball fights, made a myriad of snow angels and, of course, we are all seasoned sledders. We embrace the winter and everything that comes with it, and I for one enjoy it. I love experiencing all four seasons because I always have something to look forward to and eagerly await. As The Temptations said (or, to be more precise, sang), “When it’s cold out­side, I’ve got the month of may.” but for now, the month of may can wait, because I’m going to take my time enjoying the snow. 
because in a way, I think winter, and especially the snow, brings out the best in us. Sure, at times the serene beauty of winter brings with it bone-chilling winds and dangerously icy sidewalks, but it’s all well worth it. While walking to class early in the morning last week through the wind tunnel that is South Quad, I heard someone yell, in a voice much too loud for any time before 9 a.m., “Weather builds character!” Though this merry winter warrior was certainly aiming for humor, I found profound truth in his exclamation as well. As a matter of fact, I think it is remarkably true in a number of ways. 
Of course, the cold, wind and snow build our physical durability, but weather builds character in a much deeper way than simply thickening our skin. I have found snow makes us more willing and happy to help one another. Whenever it snows at home, one of my neighbors al­most always clears a path in the sidewalk the entire length of the block with a snow blower before anyone else is even awake. When Chicago was inundated with roughly 23 inches of snow nearly two years ago, my entire neighborhood took on the waist-high snowdrifts together. Never before, or since, have I seen such impromptu teamwork and genuine care for the community. 
together though, I love the snow because it is so simply and uniquely fun. Nothing quite lets out our inner child than the prospect of playing in the snow until we can’t feel our fingers anymore. The sim­ple fact is winter allows us to revert to our five-year-old selves for a while and make snow angels, go ice skating and build snowmen. This observation was perfect­ly portrayed last Wednesday night, when at the stroke of midnight, hundreds of my fellow students and I, all legal adults mind you, took to South Quad and en­gaged in the largest snowball fight I have ever had the pleasure of partaking in. For the record, I am proud to claim, though un-authoritatively so, a victory for South Quad. 
Winter affects our lives in many more ways, too, many of them we don’t neces­sarily realize. In many areas, including Chicago, the “politics of snow” is a well-documented political phenomenon. With elections often occurring in the middle of winter, the timely and effective manage­ment of snowstorms can make or break a campaign. As a matter of fact, Chicago mayor michael bilandic lost a reelec­tion campaign in 1979, partly due to his mismanagement of a blizzard in January of that year that dumped just shy of 19 inches of snow on the city. In the same vein, many midwestern governments on snow removal each winter. 
As a self-professed literary nerd, though, perhaps my favorite impact snow has on our lives comes in the symbolic nature of snow. In literature, snow can be used as a symbol of purity and rebirth. Snow, particularly an excess of snow, is traditionally used to represent death. Or, as James Joyce most beautifully de­picted the snow in his short story “The dead,” snow can be the universe’s great equalizer. Joyce stunningly and elegantly depicts the snow “falling faintly through the universe and faintly falling, like the descent of their last end, upon all the liv­ing and the dead.” 
beyond all of the politics, symbolism and cultural significance though, it all comes back to the simplicity and beauty of nature. Indeed, there are few moments in one’s life more breathtakingly beauti­ful and romantic than watching fragile flakes of snow descend gently to the ground on a quiet winter’s night. So take some time to sit back, relax and enjoy the snow. 
Jack Rooney is a freshman studying political science.  He can be contacted at jrooney1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ThE ObSERVER | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY  1, 2013 | NdSmCObSERVER.COm 
SUPERBOWL 
PLAYLIST 
For your pre-game party, in between your constant snacking and smack talking, make sure to listen to these Super Bowl XLVII-related songs. Whether preparing for the national anthem, the halftime show, the host city or the two teams, these will ensure excitement before the big game. 
“Survivor” Destiny’s Child  
“Anything Could Happen” Ellie Goulding  
“Run This World” Beyonce  
“Girl on Fire” Alicia Keys  
“San Francisco” Cascada  
“Crazy in Love” Beyonce  
“New Orleans” Elvis Presley  
“Seven Nation Army” The White Stripes  
“Good Morning Baltimore” Hairspray Cast  
“Karma” Alicia Keys  
“Run This Town” Jay-Z/Rihanna/Kanye West  
“We Are Family” Sister Sledge  





Listen to the playlist online at 
ndsmcobserver.com/scene 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 


Sam Stryker 
Assistant managing Editor 
Super bowl Sunday is all about over-the-top extravagance. The bruising Ravens are squaring off against the high-octane 49ers. The host city? None other than boozy, revelry-loving New Orleans. The biggest diva in music, beyoncé, is set to perform at halftime, perhaps with her former bandmates from destiny’s Child mak­ing an appearance. Corporations are shelling out nearly $4 million for a 30-second advertising spot. 
In other words, go big or go home. 
As a spectator, you had better be ready to uphold your end of the excessive bargain. That means if you are hosting or attending a Super bowl party, don’t plan on ordering pizza or cutting any corners in supplying limitless belly-filling grub. Super bowl Sunday comes but once a year, so make sure you do it right and make some delicious (though not nutritious) snacks for the big game. 
Whether you live off-campus and have access to a full kitchen or live in a dorm and are limited in space and cooking supplies, making some delectable snacks for Sunday’s festivities is not only easy but also rewarding. homemade snacks will impress friends and taste infinitely better than the store-bought variety. 
For this weekend, fellow Scene writer kicki Astuno and I have prepared a savory and a sweet snack — buffalo Chicken dip and No-bake Cocoa Peanut butter Cookies. both are super easy to make and taste de­liciously indulgent. you can make the dip first, and while it is baking in the oven you’ll have plenty of time to prepare the cookies. It’s as easy as that. be sure to also check out our corresponding video of kicki and I pre­paring these snacks in the kitchen at ndsmcobserver.com. both recipes are adapted from AllRecipes.com. 
Buffalo Chicken Dip 
Serves eight 
Ingredients 
1.5 pounds grilled chicken, chopped and shredded 16 ounces cream cheese, softened 1 cup ranch dressing ¾ cup hot sauce 2 cups shredded cheddar cheese Nachos and/or crackers for serving 
directions 

Preheat oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. Spread shredded chicken in a large baking dish. Pour ranch dressing and hot sauce over the chicken. Add in cream cheese and one cup of the cheddar cheese. With a large spoon, break up and stir mixture in the pan. Sprinkle the remaining cup of cheddar cheese over the mixture. bake in the oven 25-30 minutes, until bubbling. Remove and let cool for five minutes. Serve with nachos or crackers. 
No-Bake Cocoa Peanut Butter Cookies 
makes 24 cookies 
Ingredients 
2 cups white sugar 
½ cup butter 
½ cup milk 
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 
2/3 cup smooth peanut butter 
3 cups quick cooking oats 
2 teaspoons vanilla extract 

directions 
Place a large sheet of wax paper on a baking sheet or kitchen counter. In a medium saucepan, combine sugar, butter, milk and cocoa. Cook the mixture over medium heat, stirring constantly, until the mixture reaches a rolling boil. Remove the saucepan from the heat and let it cool for a minute. Stir in the peanut butter until smooth. Add the oats and vanilla, stirring until mixed in well. using a spoon, ice cream scoop or cookie dropper, drop heaping tablespoons onto the wax paper. Allow the cookies to cool completely before serving.
    The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

ThE ObSERVER | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY  1, 2013 | NdSmCObSERVER.COm 

By  MIKO MALABUTE 
Scene Writer 

Starting Jan. 31, the kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, in asso­ciation with the debartolo Performing Arts Center (dPAC), will present the fifth annual ScreenPeace Film Festival, a series of critically acclaimed films re­volving around the theme of nonviolent resistance. 
hal Cuberston, executive director of the kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, said he believes in the influential power of film, especially for highlighting worldly problems. 
“The purpose of the ScreenPeace Film Festival is to challenge students, faculty and members of the community to re­flect more deeply on peace issues around the world,” Cubertson said. “Film is an excellent medium for provoking insights into other societies and cultures.” 
Cubertson said that the films 
By WILLIAM NEAL 
Scene Writer 

I don’t know where to begin with “movie 43.” There is no denying that this is a truly terrible movie, but sticking with that logic would be taking the easy way out of this review. I say this because it was clearly the intention of everyone involved in the project to make one of the crudest and most tasteless films the public has ever seen. 
yes, “movie 43” is awful, but that’s because it never stops trying to be aw­ful. There have been many films in the past that have shared this same inten­tion (“Scary movie,” “kung Pow: Enter the Fist,” “mars Attacks,” “Star Wars: The Phantom menace”), but “movie 43” takes this concept to new height. basically, it’s a film made up of shorts, each with a dif­ferent director and cast of familiar faces. The only cohesive factor of this movie is the overarching story of a crazed screen­writer (dennis Quaid) pitching one awful idea after another to a producer (Greg kinnear) who grows increasingly comprising the festival are specifically chosen to give a wide variety of views that all emphasize a common theme, this year’s being nonviolent resistance. 
“We select the movies with dPAC,” Cubertson said. “We look for recent films that focus on significant peace issues in diverse locations and situations, giving particular attention to topics addressed in current peace studies classes.  We also look for high quality films in terms of content and production. This year one of the films, ‘5 broken Cameras’, was nominated for an Oscar, and another, ‘Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry’, was on the shortlist for the Oscar.” 
Indeed, those two films certainly emphasize the diverse locations and situations kroc and dPAC call for in ar­ticulating a universal message. “5 broken Cameras” is centered on a first-hand ac­count of non-violent resistance in the Palestinian town of bil’in. It focuses on a Palestinian farmer and his family’s 
disturbed with each story. Side note: I’m not sure if dennis Quaid is supposed to be playing himself here, but he doesn’t have a name in the movie and makes nu­merous remarks about his “out of work” status. 
Anyway, the movie’s first short features the two biggest stars of the “movie 43” extended cast, hugh Jackman and kate Winslet. despite their extended experi­ence with sophisticated dramas, Jackman and Winslet have one of the more crude storylines in which a woman’s blind date turns out to have a prominent sexual de­formity. Whether or not this is your brand of humor, you can’t help but laugh that these two talented actors have agreed to star in a segment as ridiculous as this. In fact, when we cut back to Quaid after the story, kinnear says an actress like Winslet would never attach herself to such a film. There is something truly surreal about a movie involving script pitches that would never be made in the real world being shown to the real world. And these movie pitches only get cruder after the first. 
From here we get a batch of offensive, progression over five years of cultur­al tensions and aggression as Israelis threatened to forcibly settle and impose their will in Palestine. 
“Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry,” meanwhile, is set in contemporary China, where the camera follows Ai Weiwei in what the film’s website describes as a film “against a backdrop of strict censor­ship and an unresponsive legal system … Ai expresses himself and organizes people through art and social media. In response, Chinese authorities have shut down his blog, beat him up, bulldozed his newly built studio and held him in se­cret detention.” 
On an interesting tangent, the back­ground of the film’s website shows some­one — presumably Weiwei — giving a lovely and heart-warming one-fingered salute to a candid scene of China. 
These are certainly two very interest­ing and well-respected films, and they are only two of the five films set to be a part 
racist and outlandishly risqué stories that are sure to make you gasp. Other shorts include plotlines of a mentally tortured homeschooler, an appendage-mutilating product called “ibabe,” a seventh-grader’s date gone horribly wrong and one girl­friend’s shocking request too racy for this paper in a bit that stars Chris Pratt and Anna Faris. most of the actors involved have fun with and immerse themselves into the offensive material. Emma Stone’s brief, inappropriate and overly emotional scene with kieran Culkin shines a light on these stars’ acting talent, even in the midst of cinematic mediocrity. Gerard butler plays a leprechaun — I don’t care if it’s stupid, that’s just fun (and impres­sive) to witness. The cast list continues with names like uma Thurman, Terrence howard, halle berry, Naomi Watts, Jason Sudeikis, Jack mcbrayer, Johnny knoxville, Sean William Scott and Justin Long. 
The most important question here is “does the movie make you laugh?” Well, yes and no. For a film that relies on tell­ing several isolated stories, not all of of the lineup for ScreenPeace. Following those two films are “how to Start a Revolution,” shown on Friday night after “Ai Weiwei”, then on Saturday night the film festival concludes with “The Loving Story” and “Normal!”. Cubertson says each film will be followed by a discussion with a faculty member with relevant ex­pertise. These discussions will help link the films to the classroom and will pro­vide viewers with a forum to share their reactions to the films. 
Tickets are free for this event, in an at­tempt to promote activism and aware­ness about the theme. 
“We hope people will deepen their en­gagement with current challenges facing the world,” Cubertson said. 
The ScreenPeace Film Festival contin­ues until Feb. 2. Although free, tickets are required and will be available at dPAC. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
them are going to deliver. Overall, “movie 43” is a mess from the start to even after the credits when an inappropriate short about a cartoon cat begins. however, the film’s consistent self-awareness of its own dreadfulness is enough for many of the viewers to excuse the on-screen abomi­nation they just witnessed. The film aims and hits so low that it should be consid­ered groundbreaking in the art of inten­tional tastelessness. bravo, “movie 43.” you deserve every missing clover in this rating. 
Contact William Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
“Movie 43” 
Relativity Media 
Director: Bob Odenkirk 
Cast: Dennis Quaid, Hugh Jackman, Kate Winslet, Anna Faris and Emma Stone 




SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The sacred tradition of Wimbledon 

Mary Green 
Sports Writer 
Editor’s note: This is the fifth in a 10-part series discussing the best event in sports. In this installment, Mary Green argues for Wimbledon. 
When I applied to this fine university, the admissions essay options included the question, “What is on your bucket list?” Naturally, I had to include some sort of sporting event, but the di­lemma remained of which one to choose. Would I pick the Super bowl and the entertainment circus that surrounds it? Should I stick to my Southern roots and select the masters or the kentucky derby? Growing up a Syracuse fan, going to the Final Four had always been a dream of mine, too. 
but which of these did I select? None of the above. Instead, I wrote that I wanted to attend one certain event, “to witness the harmony between time-honored tradi­tion and fierce competition in a setting that has drawn even the Queen of England herself.” In short, I included Wimbledon on my list be­cause it is a tournament un­like any other. 
Officially named The Championships, Wimbledon, the tournament started in 1877, making it one of the oldest continuously-running athletic competitions in the world. Each June, hundreds of thousands of spectators, ranging from casual fans to tennis fanatics, descend upon the All England Club for a fortnight to attend ar­guably the most prestigious of the tennis Grand Slam championships. 
In the past few years, fans have witnessed some of the most notable matches in the sport’s history on the grass at Centre Court. Who can forget the 2010 thriller between John Isner and Nicolas mahut, the longest match in tennis history? The final score read 6–4, 3–6, 6–7 (7), 7–6 (3), 70–68, with the eye-popping fifth set that spanned three days and won the pair the ESPy for “best Record-breaking Performance” two weeks later. 
Two years earlier, crowds were treated to what some call the best match in history, the 2008 gentlemen’s singles final between Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal. This epic showdown pitted the then-No. 1 and No. 2 players against each other for nearly five hours of fast-paced tennis, showcasing the brute strength of Rafa and the polished finesse of Roger. At the end of a match that kept viewers on the edges of their seats for the duration, the outcome signaled a changing of the guard as Nadal claimed his first Wimbledon title and overtook Federer as the world’s No. 1 player. 
Though these matches have yielded new legends and tales for the ages, Wimbledon fans don’t just flock to the All England Club for the tennis. They come for everything the tournament embodies: the all-white dress code, straw­berries and cream, the Royal box. Wimbledon’s tradition, both on and off the court, distinguishes it from the three other Grand Slams. 
With the international popularity of tennis, the Championships embrace fans from all corners of the globe. No, it is not as popular an international event as the World Cup or the Olympics. however, Wimbledon’s dis­tinction from those two events is that it is true to itself. 
The World Cup and the Olympics try to keep up with the times by building ultra-modern stadiums and promoting themselves using the likes of Shakira and the Spice Girls. Wimbledon does none of that. The tourna­ment keeps tradition alive by honoring the same time-proven practices that have been in place for decades. Instead of opting for an addi­tional day of play that would bring in more revenue, the Club’s officials still insist on taking a day of rest on the middle Sunday of competi­tion. Wimbledon does not try to alter its identity for the sake of progress, and it does not need flashy sideshows to draw in audiences. The Championships are reliable and steadfast, something that will not change any time soon. This unwavering nature in a quickly changing world, in addition to the incredible tennis, makes Wimbledon not only a unique sporting event but also the best sporting event in the world. Like in­numerable other fans around the world, I just hope I will be able to walk the grounds of the All England Club and cross Wimbledon off my bucket list sometime soon. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC SWIMMING 
SMC prepares for showdown with Olivet 

By RICH HIDY 
Sports Writer 
After falling to Calvin and kalamazoo, the belles will at­tempt to rebound against Olivet on Saturday at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The belles are looking for a strong performance in their final test before the mIAA champion­ships that begin Feb. 13. 
“This event is going to be very evenly matched and it is impor­tant that we close out the regular season strong in order to get ready for conference play,” belles coach mark benishek said. 
One of the match’s intriguing 

FOR SALE 
Move in ready townhome near ND. $75K. 574-532-5961 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more 
events will be the 50-yard free­style. belles sophomore Anna Nolan, coming off a pair of third-place finishes in the 50-free and the 100-yard backstroke, will face fellow sophomore Jazmin Johnson of Olivet. both Nolan and Johnson are in the upper ech­elon of competitors in the mIAA. 
As a team Saint mary’s excels in the 200-yard freestyle relay, the final event to close out the week­end. The quartet, which is led by Nolan and senior Ellie Watson, finished in the top five in Saint preparation in advance of the mIAA championships. If Saint mary’s is going to make a splash in that tournament, it will need to build momentum against Olivet, benishek said. 
mary’s  school  history  against  
Calvin and kalamazoo.  
benishek  said  the  belles  
are  concentrating  on  intense  

“This is a great precursor for what is coming ahead,” benishek said. “We will try to earn some impressive times this weekend as we finalize our training for the last meet.” 
The belles will swim against Olivet on Saturday at the Rolfs Aquatic Center beginning at 1 p.m. 
Contact Rich Hidy at      rhidy@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
information, visit ND’s website at: Clans of long ago that http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu wanted to get rid of their unwanted people without 40% of McDonald ’s prof -killing them used to burn its come from the sales of their houses down - hence Happy Meals. the expression “to get 
fired .” Coca Cola was originally 
green . Donald Duck comics were banned from Finland Ketchup was sold in the because he doesn ’t wear 
1830s as medicine trousers . 
A ‘jiffy ’ is an actual Polar bears are left 
unit of time: 1/100th of a handed . 
second . 




MEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame hosts two teams 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre dame returns home this weekend to host a pair of back-to-back dual meets. 
The Irish (3-2) will host No. 5 duke and IuPuI on Sunday afternoon in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Last week­end, Notre dame fell 4-3 in a tough loss to No. 28 harvard, but returned the next day to sweep No. 31 memphis 4-0. In both matches, claiming the doubles point fueled Notre dame’s momentum. 
“We have been focusing on maintaining that en­ergy and intensity that we brought against memphis,” Irish junior Ryan bandy said. “We will use that win to propel us into the weekend.” 
The Irish will need to bring forward the lessons learned last weekend as they look to take down unde­feated duke (5-0). The blue devils most recently defeat­ed No. 37 Northwestern 4-0, handing the Wildcats their first loss of the season. The blue devils shine in all ar­eas of play, led by the No. 1 pair in the country in dou­bles play, henrique Cunha and Raphael hemmeler. No. 37 Fred Saba and Chris mengel, along with No. 39 Jason Tahir and michael Redlicki, join them in form­ing a formidable lineup. 
In singles play, No. 11 Cunha leads the blue devils’ group of deep and talent­ed players. Other ranked contenders include No. 14 Redlicki, No. 23 Saba, No. 38 hemmeler, No. 43 mengel and No. 123 Tahir. 

IuPuI enters its match with Irish without a win. The Jaguars (0-6) most re­cently faced uW-Green bay in a 7-0 loss. In that meet, they lost each singles set and each round of doubles competition. 
The Irish enter the week­end of competition hav­ing recently seen one of their youngest contributors earn an award. Freshman Quentin monaghan earned the big East Player of the Week honor Wednesday af­ter going 2-1 in the No. 3 singles slot last weekend. he follows junior team­mate Greg Andrews, who earned the honor the week before. both monaghan and Andrews have played large roles in Notre dame’s suc­cess this season. 
The Irish have been strug­gling all season in dou­bles play, but the win over memphis served as an op­portunity for improvement when they won the doubles point. They will look to con­tinue performing this week­end against both visiting squads. 
“We have been working on doubles and on specific skills for individual guys,” senior blas moros said. 
Play begins at 12 p.m. Sunday against duke and will continue at 6 p.m. against IuPuI. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEmENT 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish to face familiar foe 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish got a good look at Tennessee last weekend. This Sunday, the two squads will see who made better use of the early scouting report. 
Although Notre dame did not play Tennessee at the ITA kick-Off last weekend, the No. 18 Irish (3­
1) were on hand to watch the No. 25 Lady Vols (0-2) fall 4-3 against both No. 17 Nebraska and No. 22 Georgia Tech. The coaches can add these new observations to an already extensive scouting report. 
“We play each other every year, and we’ve played each other in the NCAAs quite a bit, so we know each other pretty well,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “We always have tight matches with them.” 
Although Tennessee did not win a dual match at the ITA kick-Off, Louderback said Tennessee’s top two players — No. 23 junior brynn boren and No. 25 senior kata Szekely — make Tennessee a tough team to beat. 
“Last week all four teams were pretty even; [Tennessee is] right about where we are,” Louderback said. “Their No. 1 doubles team is very good also, so it will be a good test for the top of our lineup this weekend. 
“Their doubles are always very good, we’re usually very strong in the doubles too, so that’s some­thing we usually have an advan­tage over teams but against them we really don’t because their dou­bles are very good, also.” 
The Irish have long focused ex­tra attention on the doubles game, but boren and Szekely are the No. 12 doubles tandem in the coun­try, several places ahead of Notre dame’s No. 20 duo, juniors Julie Sabacinski and britney Sanders. 
“Their doubles are always very good, and we’re usually very strong in the doubles, too,” Louderback said. “We usually have an advan­tage over teams, but against them we really don’t.” 
Notre dame has only had one easy win so far: a 7-0 sweep over bowling Green on Jan. 18. The other three matches have been 4-3 nail-biters, with Notre dame winning two against Illinois and Georgia Tech and losing the third to Nebraska. Louderback said these early tests can help his team as they head into the bulk of their spring schedule. 

“I feel good about how our kids have played under pres­sure against some good teams,” Louderback said. “To win 4-3 games against those teams is not easy to do, and I think they’re feeling more comfortable playing matches. 
“We haven’t played since the first of November, so it’s just get­ting into the matches, getting used to playing against other oppo­nents, and I thought our kids have handled it really well so far.” 
The Irish and Volunteers will hit the courts at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 9 a.m. Sunday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Squad looks to bounce back 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
This weekend the Irish face their final competition of the regular season. Notre dame travels to Evanston, Ill., today for the Northwestern Invitational, where it will face Northwestern, missouri State and No. 20 Iowa. 
“This upcoming meet is one last chance to race before confer­ence,” senior Chris Johnson said. 
The Irish enter this week­end having lost for the first time this season as harvard topped them 264-100 at the Shamrock Invitational on Saturday. Notre dame earned a split, however, when they topped Towson 279-69. 
The Northwestern Invitational serves as the last preparation be­fore the big East championships, which begin Feb. 27. As the de­fending champions, the Irish have been looking forward to the meet all season. The Invitational will allow the squad to see where final adjustments need to be made. 
Northwestern is 1-1 this sea­son, coming most recently off a 161-122 loss at Iowa, another team the Irish will face this weekend. Freshman Jordan Wilimovsky has led the squad throughout this season, winning the 1,000-yard freestyle at Iowa with a time of 
9:27.14. Senior Charlie Rimkus has also played a large role in the team’s success, coming just one-hundredth of a second shy of first place in the 200-yard butterfly at Iowa. 
Northwestern’s strongest event at Iowa was the 50-yard freestyle, in which Wildcats earned four of the top five spots. On the diving side, junior Nick Pinkerton won the one-meter dive at Iowa with 
285.00points. 
Prior to the hawkeyes’ win against Northwestern, Iowa had back-to-back losses against No. 8 Indiana and No. 10 Ohio State. Iowa brings a wide range of tal­ent to the meet, especially in the 100-yard freestyle and 100-yard breaststroke. The hawkeyes finished with three swimmers in the top three in both events against Northwestern, led by se­nior Jordan huff’s 45.18-seconds finish in the freestyle and sopho­more korey Schneider’s 55.07-sec­ond time in the breaststroke. On the board, freshman Addison boschult posted a personal best in both the one- and three-me­ter dives with 325.13 and 341.78 points, respectively. 
missouri State (3-1) enters the meet off a 119-85 win at missouri S&T last weekend. The bears broke four pool records in the meet, highlighted by strong per­formances from sophomores Caleb Schuermann and Isaac mcknight. Schuermann won the 1,000-yard freestyle in 9:41.08 and mcknight took the 200-yard free­style in 1:43.93. The squad took the top three finishes in the 400­yard individual medley and the 100-yard backstroke. 
The Irish sit at 6-1 with a deep roster of outstanding upperclass­men in many events. Johnson most recently earned an NCAA ‘b’ qualifying time, pool record and first place in the 100-yard breaststroke with a time of 54.17 seconds. Sophomore Zachary Stephens also earned an NCAA ‘b’ qualifier in the 200-yard breast­stroke, clocking in at 1:59.65 to win the event at the Shamrock Invitational. Sophomore kevin hughes won the 500-yard free­style in 4:31.85 and sophomore Nick Nemetz took second in the one-meter dive with 328.20 points. 
The quad-dual meet will begin at 6 p.m. Friday and will continue Saturday at 11 a.m in Evanston, Ill. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


ThE ObSERVER | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY  1, 2013 | NdSmCObSERVER.COm 

Cincinnati 
CONTINuEd FROm PAGE 16 
on defense, an area she believes the Irish have excelled in since the start of conference play. 
“We’re going to have to have good team defense,” she said. “I think everybody on the team will have to be aware of where [hollins] is all the time, and I think we’ve started to play a little better defensively the last couple of weeks, so hopefully we’ll be able to know where she is.” 
The Cincinnati game falls in be­tween two difficult road tests for the Irish. Notre dame concluded a stretch of four games in nine days with the Tennessee game in knoxville, Tenn., and the team travels to Villanova next Tuesday. mcGraw said the team used this week to recover and heal for the next stretch of conference play. 
“We had a really tough stretch where we had four games in nine days, so we were able to take a couple of days off this week and get some rest,” she said. 
Saturday’s contest also marks the team’s annual Pink Zone game. The game will include a halftime ceremony featuring cancer survivors and a silent auc­tion, with all proceeds from the game going to support both na­tional and local cancer funds. 

“I think we’re excited about this game for a lot of reasons, but one of the major reasons is that it’s our Pink Zone game, which is always one of the best games of the sea­son,” mcGraw said. 

Notre dame and Cincinnati will meet Saturday at 2 p.m. at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu. 
Ohio State 
CONTINuEd FROm PAGE 16 
Fortunately for the Irish, they will have their entire roster to counter the buckeyes as junior right wing michael Voran made the trip to Columbus, Ohio, and is expected to play, Jackson said. 
“[Wednesday] was the first day of the 2012-2013 season where we actually practiced our entire roster,” Jackson said. “Right now I think we’ve got five lines worth of guys that could potentially play.” 
That fact bodes well for Notre dame as its opponents will have difficulties matching a healthy Irish roster, Irish junior center 
T.J. Tynan said. 
“depth is huge for a team and I think we are a deep team,” Tynan said. “When we get four lines rolling, there are not many teams that will be able to keep up with us. I think we got away from that during the struggles that we had. It was big to get goals from other guys this [last] weekend.” 
In addition to receiving goals from the third and fourth lines Saturday, the Notre dame also netted a power-play goal to finish Saturday’s game, ending its 0-for-14 power play streak. 
“We’ve worked on power play every day this week,” Jackson said. “It’s just a matter of them getting their mojo back, their chemistry back.” 
Notre dame’s goal-scoring is­sues have not been contained to just its power play unit as the team averaged 1.5 goals per game in its eight games in January. 
“We’ve been too perimeter-ish, which has led to not scoring a lot of goals. In all situations, we just have to be more intense at get­ting to the net, whether it’s from the cycle, on the power play, off the rush or off faceoffs,” Jackson said. “It takes effort and it takes courage. We have to continue to push them to fight for that ice. 
“hopefully we can build off what we did Saturday night and come back with a great perfor­mance on Friday.” 
The Irish will take the ice against the buckeyes tonight and Saturday at Value City Arena in Columbus, Ohio, at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Notre Dame travels to Chicago for duels 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
After a successful weekend in New york in which the men and women compiled an overall re­cord of 15-5, Notre dame will take part in the Northwestern duels in Evanston, Ill., on Saturday. 
Last weekend the Irish turned in strong performances in back-to-back competitions. First, Notre dame competed in the St. John’s Invitational, where the men’s team went 3-2 record and the women went 5-0, dominating some of the strongest competi­tion in the country. The next day at the Nyu Invitational, the men matched their 3-2 record while the women went 4-1. 
Sophomore foil madison Zeiss competed last weekend and said the team was excited about the re­sults, especially given the nature of early season meets. 
“I was there for both meets and I think we performed extremely well,” Zeiss said. “Given the low preparation time and how close the meet was after winter break, it was a very good confidence boost for the rest of the season.” 
Zeiss said while the team fenced well, the specific matchups helped produce the successful results. 
“A lot of the team gave really strong performances,” Zeiss said. “Coach [bednarski] was match­ing us up with the people that we knew we would perform well against.” 
Zeiss said there will be oppor­tunities this weekend to go up against some fresh competition. 
“This weekend there will be a few of the same teams, but also a few new ones,” Zeiss said. “All of these teams will be the teams we are competing against at the national championship level, though, and so it is critical for us this weekend.” 
Among the teams competing this weekend are women’s No. 1 Princeton, as well as traditionally strong men’s programs Ohio State and Stanford. 
Zeiss said it is difficult this early in the season to determine how strong the other squads will be, but she expects the level of com­petition to be high. 
“I don’t know how strong the other teams are and how hard they have been training, but we can control our own performance, and I know we have been working hard,” Zeiss said. 
Zeiss said the Irish have not de­viated from their regular routine since last weekend’s competitions. 
“We fenced well and had hard practices on Tuesday and Wednesday, and then Thursday we took it easy in preparation for Saturday,” Zeiss said. 
Notre dame will take to the mats Saturday in Evanston, Ill., for the Northwestern duals. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 

PAId AdVERTISEmENT 




MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish to scrimmage Detroit 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will take the field for the first time on their own campus this season when they host detroit in an exhibition Saturday night. 
The matchup against the Titans is Notre dame’s last preseason game before traveling to duke for the regular season opener Feb. 
16. Irish coach kevin Corrigan said the primary objective of the scrimmage against detroit is to prepare for the clash against the blue devils. 
“my objective any time before our first game is to prepare us for our first game,” Corrigan said. “I really don’t care what the result of our scrimmage is, short of I need to learn what I need to know about our team, our guys need the op­portunity to prepare themselves and their play and stuff for the first game.” 
The Irish enter the season ranked No. 3 in the country, while big East coaches selected them as the favorites to win the conference in the league’s preseason coaches’ poll. Notre dame won the big East regular season title last season with an undefeated conference record, but lost to St. John’s in the semifinals of the big East tour­nament and bowed out against Loyola in the semifinals of the NCAA Tournament. 

Notre dame returned to ac­tion for the first time in 2013 with two scrimmages Jan. 26 in Orlando, Fla., when it faced off against the u.S. National Team and Jacksonville. Corrigan said he is not looking for drastic improve­ment in select areas against the Titans, who went 6-9 last season, but rather marginal improvement in many areas. 
“Really, I thought that … in ev­ery area we saw things that we needed to get better at. maybe some things where we need to put 
TRACK  AND FIELD 
Notre dame  returns home 
By RICH HIDY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish return home this weekend to take on hundreds of participants in one of the most prestigious tournaments in the country, the 26th meyo Invitational, inside the Loftus Sports Center on Friday and Saturday. 
The meet will feature roughly 50 teams that repre­sent different conferences, in­cluding the big Ten, SEC, big East and the ACC. 
The ‘meyo mile’ will feature runners attempting to break the four-minute barrier, a noteworthy accomplishment. 
“People from all across the country come in and ev­erybody tries to break four minutes,” freshman distance runner Josh O’brien said. “historically we have a pro­fessional runner who paces the run. For fans that are in­terested, you might not ever see this again in your life­time,” O’brien said. 
In each of the past two seasons, senior Jeremy Rae earned first place in the mile run while cracking the presti­gious four-minute mark. Rae turned in a time of 3:59.31 last year, falling just short of his 2011 time of 3:59.62. The se­nior is injured this season and no member of the Irish will participate in this mile sprint. 
The Irish will be look­ing to turn in a strong per­formance this weekend in preparation for the big East championships. 
“Coach [Joe] Piane has been stressing that we get in a good week of practice,” O’brien said. “We need to be sharp and prepared come race time. Our previous training is de­signed for us to do well in this meet. We have worked on faster repeats to sharpen up our form.” 
The meyo Invitational be­gins Friday and runs through Saturday, concluding with the men’s 4x400 meter relay. 
Contact Rich Hidy  at rhidy@nd.edu 


more of our efforts somewhere else,” Corrigan said. “maybe some areas where we need to look at the personnel we have in certain situations. 
“And then things like clearing, where we didn’t clear the ball well, it cost us goals. defensively, the problem was more that we weren’t clearing the ball than it was that we were playing bad defense, and so we’ve got to make some prog­ress there.” 
The Irish will square off against the Titans at 7 p.m. Saturday night in the Loftus Center. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEmENT ThE ObSERVER | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY  1, 2013 | NdSmCObSERVER.COm 




DePaul 
CONTINuEd FROm PAGE 16 
slump-busting resurgence, freshman forward Zach Auguste provided crucial minutes against the Wildcats on Wednesday. Auguste scored four points in six minutes off the bench and mixed up the rotation for Notre dame. 
“I talked about sometimes how your rotation can get stale,” brey said. “I think it’s fair to say we were a little stale with our rotation. … Those [new] guys give us life and juice. It’s energized the guys that are playing heavy minutes having those guys come in, having a new guy to kind of help.” 
brey said he is especially pleased with the fresh physi­cality knight and Cooley provide when playing to­gether. Cooley has hauled in 30 rebounds in the last two games while knight has played a more bruising post game than did the perime­ter-oriented martin. 
“We’re playing two big guys,” brey said. “Only a couple times [Wednesday] did we have one big in. … We’re playing two big guys and those two big guys have got to screen and pound away and get on the board. I think the tone that the two of them set — Jack has a side­kick now pounding away — it makes the rest of our team more physical.” 
The Irish will look for more of that physicality Saturday when they go up against dePaul’s 6-foot-8 junior for­ward Cleveland melvin, who leads the blue demons in scoring and rebounding with 
16.7 points and 7.8 rebounds per game. melvin scored 16 points against the Irish last season in a losing effort. 
Junior guard brandon young is tied with melvin in scoring at 16.7 points per game. young leads dePaul in big East play with nearly 18 points per contest. The baltimore native scored a game-high 21 points in dePaul’s 79-74 overtime loss to St. John’s on Wednesday. 
The Irish will turn to a pair of their own maryland guards to square off with young on Saturday. Junior Eric Atkins ranks third in the big East with 6.3 assists per game while fellow junior Jerian Grant ranks sixth with 
5.6 helpers per contest. 
Recently, Atkins and Grant have been part of an Irish ef­fort to play more aggressive­ly on both ends of the court. 
“We pressured the ball a little bit more [Wednesday] instead of our three-point line defense,” brey said. “We got out and we contested some. We trapped some ball screens, which is an aggres­sive thing. Everything is kind of attacking and I think our guys are really feeling good about that and if we made a mistake and it’s something attacking and playing really hard we’ll live with it.” 
despite the recent energy and optimism, Cooley said the Irish have not proved anything with their recent two-game stretch. 
“It’s really good to keep winning, but we’ve got to keep doing it,” Cooley said after beating Villanova. “We can’t look at it that we’re on a streak or that we’ve won any games. We just have got to keep thinking we’ve only got five wins and we’re in the mix. 
“We’re not in the lead, so we need to keep fighting and scrapping to make our way in this league.” 
The Irish take on the blue demons on Saturday at 2 
p.m. at the Allstate Arena in Rosemont, Ill. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEmENT 





CROSSWORD | WILL ShORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChRISTOPhER bRuCkER 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | LENNy RAGO &                                                                                      PATRICk CROSS 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | ThE mEPhAm GROuP 

HOROSCOPE | EuGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: mario Williams, 28; Justin Timberlake, 32; kerry Washington, 36; Portia de Rossi, 40. 
Happy Birthday: Take a broader look at the possibilities that exist and you will find a challenge that suits you mentally, physically or financially and satisfies your desire to accomplish something great. A sense of what works will help you make wise choices and allow you to reinvent or recycle past conquests. A little force will go a long way. your numbers are 3, 10, 14, 21, 28, 32, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t let erratic behavior cloud your vision or send you spinning in the wrong direction. Look at what transpires and size up your situation based on what you can win or lose in the process. Change is necessary but it has to be positive. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t let compliments fool you into believing you have everything under control. Someone is trying to manipulate the situation or get something from you. Rethink everyone’s motives, including your own, before you proceed. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ve got plenty of choices. use your intelligence and separate your emotions from the equation and you will make a suitable decision that will bring you good fortune and greater opportunity. Speak con­cisely and from the heart. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Go out and have fun with friends. Attend a reunion or contact someone you haven’t seen for a long time. Interacting with people from your past will help you see your personal situation clearly, giving you ideas as to what you should do next. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expand your interests and your friendships. Call in favors and travel to unfamiliar places that are sure to inspire you to follow through with your goals. Avoid anyone putting demands on you. you need a little time to develop your plans. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you can get a lot done, but you must also put time aside for love and your favorite pastimes. All work and no play will lead to someone’s loss of interest in you. Nurture the relationships that are dear to you. Put love first. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): make plans to get out and have some fun. Network­ing functions will lead to greater prosperity. your intelligent way of expressing your plans for the future will interest someone entrepreneurial. An unexpected change will end up being beneficial. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t waste time trying to prove a point to someone who is stubborn. you are best to focus on your interests or creative projects. Avoid overdoing it in any way. keep your money in a safe place and your assets well protected. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll have a good view of the possibilities that exist through a friendship or a change in location. Strive to contribute and you will earn a secure position. Personal changes will turn out well. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Pressure can be expected from an unusual source. Prepare to make your point clear, but be willing to listen. Combining what you have with what’s being offered will be what leads to your success. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you are the one everybody is watching. you are a trendsetter and do what you can to change the way people think or do things. Invest in yourself, your surroundings and your lifestyle. A reward is within reach. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Too much information is being kept a secret. you either have to share or avoid moving in a direction that can be detrimental to your future goals. Not everyone will be willing to give you the benefit of the doubt. Play fair. 

Birthday Baby: you are intelligent, challenging, innovative and progressive. you are a leader. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF kNuREk 

make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  



ThE ObSERVER | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY  1, 2013 | NdSmCObSERVER.COm 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Righting the ship 
Irish carry momentum into matchup against DePaul with key adjustments and physical play 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Reinvented and reinvigo­rated, the Irish look to direct the momentum from their current two-game win streak toward Saturday’s matchup with dePaul in Rosemont, Ill. 
After losing three of four games and losing graduate student guard Scott martin to injury, Notre dame (17-4, 5-3 big East) has righted the ship with an influx of new­found energy. In his first start of the season, senior forward Tom knight powered the Irish with a career-high 17 points in a 73-65 victory against South Florida on Saturday and freshman for­ward Cam biedscheid busted out of his slump Wednesday by scoring a career-high 18 points to help top Villanova 65-60. 
The Irish, who returned the same five starters from last year’s NCAA tournament squad, have been forced to adjust since martin’s knee injury. Irish coach mike brey said Notre dame has ad­justed and is simply looking to get a win against the blue demons (10-10, 1-6), who have lost five consecutive games and seven of their last eight. 
“you go into the season thinking you’re going to be something and stuff hap­pens and you’ve got to kind of shift gears and I kind of like where we’re at right now,” brey said after Wednesday’s win. “I don’t know who we’ll be in two weeks but we’ll do what we’ve got to do to win a league game.” 
In addition to knight’s el­evated role and biedscheid’s 
see dePAuL PAGE 14 

HOCKEY 

Notre dame prepares for staunch buckeye defense 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports  Writer 
After snapping a five-game losing streak Saturday, one word best describes the Irish as they head into this week­end’s road series with Ohio State — excited. 
Notre dame (16-10-0, 12-6­0 CChA), relieved to put their January record of 2-6-0 behind them, is excited to have the en­tire roster available for the first time all season. 
Following a frustrating 3-1 defeat to Ferris State on Jan. 25, the team breathed a collective sigh of relief after its 5-2 vic­tory against the bulldogs the following night. Notre dame utilized three goals from the third and fourth lines, includ­ing senior right wing kevin Nugent’s first career goal, which turned out to be the game-winner. 
“It’s nice to get a win under our belt after so long,” junior center david Gerths said. “We were struggling there for a bit, but I think we have our head in the right place now and we are looking forward to this weekend.” 
Notre dame will face Ohio State on Friday and Saturday in its third straight CChA weekend series. The Irish sit in third place in the CChA with 36 points, while the buckeyes (10-11-5, 9-6-3), who swept Lake Superior State at home Jan. 25 and 26, rank sixth. 

“We’re going into a tough place,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “We are playing a team that’s a good penalty killing team with maybe the best goalie in the country. The power play will be challenged in many ways this weekend.” 

The buckeyes enter the se­ries 4-3-2 at home and boast a CChA-best 89.8 penalty kill percentage. Ohio State’s other strong asset tends its net, as senior goalkeeper brady hjelle boasts a .946 save percentage and 1.60 goals-against average to rank second and third in the NCAA, respectively. 
see OhIO STATE PAGE 12 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish seek to continue streak 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
As No. 2 Notre dame looks to extend its season-high win­ning streak Saturday at Purcell Pavilion, it will face a Cincinnati squad currently trending in the opposite direction. The bearcats (8-12, 0-7 big East) have lost sev­en straight games since their last victory, a win over Long Island on dec. 30. 
meanwhile, Notre dame (19­1, 7-0) has won 14 straight games since losing to current No. 1 baylor on dec. 6. Over the course of the winning streak, the Irish defeated four ranked teams, in­cluding then-No. 1 Connecticut on Jan. 5 and No. 9 Tennessee on monday. Senior guard Skylar diggins poured in a career-high 33 points in the 77-67 win over the Lady Vols, turning in a per­formance coach muffet mcGraw said was possibly the best in diggins’ Notre dame career. 
“[diggins] has actually always played well against Tennessee, but [monday’s game] was phe­nomenal,” mcGraw said. “For her to shoot 50 percent from the field and score that many points while still getting assists and running the team, it was all-around a great game on both ends of the floor.” 
under diggins’ leadership, the Irish offense has been click­ing since the start of conference play. Notre dame is second in the big East in scoring offense, averaging 82 points per game, and the Irish have scored more than 70 points in all seven of their league games. 
“I think we’re executing a little bit better,” mcGraw said of the team’s offense. “I think we’re setting better screens, we’re being a little bit more patient, while being more aggressive at the same time. We’re looking for each other and being very unselfish.” 
Notre dame will face a Cincinnati team that has had its share of offensive woes. The bearcats average a confer­ence-low 53 points per game. Nonetheless, the bearcats pos­sess a talented scorer in senior guard dayeesha hollins who leads the team in scoring with 15 points per game. 
“She’s hard to guard, she has great speed and can really score,” mcGraw said of hollins. “We had trouble last year trap­ping her, and we weren’t really successful in anything we tried.” 
mcGraw said the best game plan to counter hollins in­volves strong communication 
see CINCINNATI PAGE 12 




