The IndependenT newspaper serVIng 
alabama 42, noTre dame and notre dame 14 saInT mary’s 


Volume 46, Issue 68  | TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserVer.com | special edition 

golson grows PAGE 4 gameday grades PAGE 4 season To remember PAGE 7 senIor farewell PAGE 11 2013 ouTlook PAGE 13 



ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 
editor-in-chief 
allan Joseph 
managing editor                  business manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
asst. managing editor: andrew owens 
asst. managing editor: sam stryker news editor: John cameron news editor: kristen durbin 
Viewpoint editor: meghan Thomassen sports editor: chris allen scene editor: kevin noonan saint mary’s editor: Jillian barwick photo editor: suzanna pratt Graphics editor: brandon keelean multimedia editor: sarah o’connor advertising manager: monica mccormack ad design manager: sara hilstrom controller: peter woo systems administrator: william heineman 

office manager & General info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

editor-in-chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

managing editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

assistant managing editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

business office 
(574) 631-5313 

news desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

sports desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

scene desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

saint mary’s desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

photo desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

systems & Web administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office Information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
mIamI gardens, fla. — It wasn’t pretty, and it was a deeply unsatisfy­ing end to a storybook 2012 season. but once you step back from the chaos and the heartbreak, some bright spots emerge — not just in the big picture of the 2012 campaign, but in the 42-14 loss. There aren’t many to highlight, but the ones there are suggest the Irish will be back for more next fall. 
by far the best thing about notre dame’s title game performance was the play of sophomore quarterback everett golson. his stat line wasn’t phenomenal (21-of-36 for 270 yards, one touchdown and one frankly un­lucky interception), but the young quarterback played one of the best games of his career. after more than 40 days of preparation, golson had more control of his pre-snap reads, better footwork and better timing with his receivers than at any point this season, save perhaps for the second half of the oklahoma contest. 
he missed a few long throws, but he was accurate when finding T.J. Jones and daVaris daniels on curl and out routes. he saw alabama’s safeties play­ing in the middle of the field to take away Tyler eifert’s seam routes and knew that meant he had one-on-one coverage outside — so he took advan­tage, earning the majority of his yards outside the hash marks. 
golson didn’t rush the ball very much, but he did repeatedly extend plays with his scrambling ability, all the while keeping his eyes downfield. 



bright spots in sun life stadium give hope for the future 
perhaps the best part of it all, though, is that golson got truly invalu­able experience against a fantastic crimson Tide defense — and played well. barring any major upheaval, he should be able to go into spring prac­tice focusing on improving his specific weaknesses, not on competing for the starting job. 
“his motivation in the off-season is going to be to get back to this game,” Irish coach brian kelly said. “and the experience that he is able to take from this game, you can’t duplicate it if 

The Irish were not close to Alabama. But there was 
more to be happy about 

than first appeared. 
you’re sitting home or playing in a bowl game. when you’re playing for a na­tional championship, that stuff doesn’t leave you.” 
daniels and Jones were also bright spots for the notre dame offense. both showed their ability to do more than run their routes, but to improvise with golson to find a way to get open down-field. They will become true weapons next fall. 
not enough can be said about junior nose guard louis nix and the effort he put forth. despite being somewhat winded and somewhat injured, nix went up against all-american center barrett Jones admirably all night long and proved equal to the future first-rounder. given nix’s incredible mo­tivation (dropping 50 pounds, as he’s done since he arrived at notre dame, is no easy task) to go from very good to dominant, he will wreak havoc in 2013. 
one of the biggest reasons the loss in the bcs national championship is still a bright spot, however, is that the entire program, from kelly down to the walk-ons, saw exactly what it takes to become a national champion. It takes top-to-bottom athleticism. It takes the ability to peak at the right time. It takes dominance at every position. and while the Irish aren’t there yet, they’re on their way. 
“our guys clearly know what it looks like,” kelly said. “[The crimson Tide] are back-to-back national champs. so that’s what it looks like. measure yourself against that, and I think it was pretty clear across the board what we have to do. 
“we all now know what we have to do to move from where we are, which is a 12-0 football team, pretty darned good football team, but not good enough.” 
kelly should know. when he first took grand Valley state to a national championship game in 2001, his lakers lost. but in 2002, he took them back and won the title before doing it again in 2003. 
The Irish were not close to alabama. but there was more to be happy about than first appeared. It’s not just that notre dame exceeded all expectations for the 2012 season. It’s that if you look closely, 2013 might be even better. 
Contact Allan Joseph at         ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 





Tide rolls 
Lacy runs over Irish defense as Alabama repeats as national champion 

SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 
Alabama freshman running back T.J. Yeldon runs into the end zone for a touchdown during Alabama’s 42-14 victory over Notre Dame in the BCS National Championship Game on Jan. 7. Yeldon and fellow running back Eddie Lacy both ran for over 100 yards on the ground as the Alabama running game carried the Crimson Tide to another national title. 
the opening kickoff, and en-said after the game. “They gap there, and just overall you out the way we planned. 
by andreW oWens 
assistant managing editor gineered a five-play, 82-yard have one of the best offensive need to see what it looks like,” “but how I feel right now, I’m 
touchdown drive, forcefully lines in the country — prob-kelly said. “our guys clearly kind of just taking this game 
mIamI gardens, fla. — punctuated by running back ably the best offensive line, know what it looks like. when under my belt. like I said, I’ll Just minutes after the final eddie lacy’s 20-yard touch-but they did not dominate our I say, ‘know what it looks like,’ just gain the experience from whistle sounded in alabama’s down run. defensive front. we just missed a championship football team. it, and really looking forward 42-14 domination of notre alabama’s quick work tackles.” They’re back-to-back national to next year knowing that I’ve dame, sun life stadium em-marked the first touchdown after another notre dame champs. so that’s what it looks got to be more of a leader, and ployees hurriedly assembled drive notre dame (12-1) al-punt and alabama touchdown like. measure yourself against just being more of a leader to the stage for the postgame lowed this season of more than drive, it was 21-0 after one play that, and I think it was pretty this team and trying to make ceremony. 75 yards. in the second quarter, and the clear across the board what we this team better.” 
crimson Tide players were “I think coach kelly told us rout was on. The crimson Tide have to do.” notre dame fell one win waving flags embroidered with before the game that there are added two additional scores alabama’s defensive front short of a national champion­“back-to-back champions.” eight minutes that are very before the Irish reached the limited notre dame to 32 rush-ship, but if the Irish are to re­
notre dame limped off the important in the game,” Irish end zone for the first time ing yards, putting the offensive main among the nation’s elite, field, some figuratively and senior linebacker manti Te’o at the 4:08 mark in the third weight on quarterback everett this season will be considered others, like junior nose guard said. “The first two minutes of quarter. golson’s shoulders. The sopho-the program’s revival. louis nix, literally. the game, the last two minutes “notre dame had a really more finished 21-of-36 for 270 “[losing] definitely sucks, to 
on this night and this in the second quarter, the first highly sort of statistical de-yards, an interception and two be quite honest,” Te’o said. “but stage, it was unquestionable: two minutes of the third quar-fensive team, and I thought total touchdowns. I wouldn’t trade it for anything. alabama is the king of college ter and the last two minutes of that a real challenge for us “well, the beginning of the I wouldn’t trade this team for football. the game, and obviously the in the game is how we would game I don’t think it was nec-anything. I wouldn’t do any-
The Irish were denied their first two minutes of the game control the line of scrimmage, essarily nerves,” golson said. thing differently. obviously we first national championship in didn’t pan out the way we and I think that that’s prob-“I was more so anxious to play. wish that the night could have 24 years, and the crimson Tide thought it would go. ably the thing that was the I think all the players were anx-ended in a different way. … hoisted the crystal football for “but you know, we had a lot most surprising to me is how ious to play, and we had that regardless of what happened the third time in four seasons of opportunities … and we we were able to control the line mindset of really going out and tonight, I’m proud of my team.” under head coach nick saban. didn’t capitalize on those op-of scrimmage, especially early executing and giving us the 
“we were beat today by a bet-portunities, and alabama did.” in the game,” saban said. “we best chance to beat alabama. contact andrew owens at ter football team,” Irish coach after a three-and-out by had a really good plan, and obviously things didn’t work aowens2@nd.edu brian kelly said. “They beat us the Irish offense, it appeared players did a really good job of today, and we’ve got another notre dame received the spark executing it. but I didn’t think step that we have to take in the it needed on the punt when that we would be able to con-development of our program, alabama returner christion trol the line of scrimmage.” and it’ll be left up to those that Jones muffed it. The Irish re-lacy rushed 20 times for 140 



PLAYER OF THE GAME 
have been led by these seniors, covered, but the referees ruled yards and a touchdown, while and that’ll be the challenge sophomore safety matthias freshman running back T.J. moving forward. farley interfered with Jones. yeldon’s number was called 21 
“as for the game, it was alabama shredded the times for 108 yards and a score. EDDIE LACY pretty clear. I mean, we had a notre dame defense again on alabama’s rushing prowess al-

ALABAMA RUNNING BACK 
hard time getting off the field, a 61-yard drive that put the lowed senior quarterback a.J. and a lot of that had to do with crimson Tide in front 14-0. It mccarron to complete 20 of 28 The bruising junior lacy, who has declared for the nfl draft, made a alabama.” was just the second time all passes for 264 yards and four huge impact in his final college game. he ran for 140 yards, added 17 
from the first possession, season that the Irish trailed by touchdowns. receiving yards and scored a touchdown on the ground and through alabama (13-1) left no doubt. double digits. “we’ve got to get physically the air. lacy knifed through the notre dame defense on the game’s The crimson Tide received “They are a great team,” nix stronger, continue to close the opening drive and wore down the Irish defense en route to victory. 

The obserVer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2013| ndsmcobserVer.com 




REPORT CARD 









QUARTERBACKS 
everett golson initially looked like an inexperienced starter facing a championship defense. but as the game progressed, golson began to be golson. he threw for 270 yards, kept plays alive with his feet and made the game look closer than it was with two late touchdowns. 

RUNNING BACKS 
The early deficit took the backs out of the game more than anything but when Theo riddick and cierre wood did car­ry the ball, the results were not favorable. The two senior backs combined for 39 rushing yards in their final game with the Irish. 

RECEIVERS 
daVaris daniels returned from injury to haul in 115 yards while T.J. Jones and Tyler eifert also had solid games. but robby Toma, John goodman and Theo riddick combined to catch one ball as notre dame averaged 13 yards per catch. 

OFFENSIVE LINE 
The strength of the Irish offense struggled against the massive crimson Tide defensive front. golson was sacked twice, notre dame managed just one run of longer than 10 yards as the Irish struggled to sustain long drives. 

DEFENSIVE LINE 
against the vaunted alabama offensive line, notre dame’s defensive front failed to pressure crimson Tide quarter­back a.J. mccarron and, more notably, slow the alabama rushing duo of eddie lacy and T.J. yeldon. 

LINEBACKERS 
The notre dame linebackers were consistently overpow­ered by lacy and yeldon. each of the Irish linebackers 
— even manti Te’o — often failed to wrap up and gave alabama too many yards after contact 

DEFENSIVE BACKS 
mccarron torched the Irish secondary to the tune of 264 yards and four touchdowns, and freshman receiver amari cooper tortured the defense. Zeke motta’s woes carried over into the rush defense, where he consistently missed tackles. 

SPECIAL TEAMS 
The return units were below average, yes, but coverage made up for it. The Irish stopped returns before they could start and nearly forced a turnover in the first quarter. ben Turk also averaged more than 42 yards per punt. 

COACHING 
It was the coaching staff’s first experience preparing for a championship game and it showed. The offensive game-plan was off from the start. defensively, alabama players spoke of a “predictable” Irish approach. 

OVERALL GPA: 1.82 
notre dame’s uncharacteristically bad tackling and poor line play meant the game was no contest just four seconds into the second quarter. The Irish tied alabama in the second half but the crimson Tide was just too much for an overwhelmed notre dame squad. The team of destiny that found a way to win 12 games could barely find its way to 12 points. 


PLAYER OF THE GAME 
ALABAMA JUNIOR RUNNING BACK EDDIE LACY 
lacy ran for 140 yards on 20 carries. lacy set the tone early with domi­nating stampedes of 10 and 20 yards on the opening drive and had 72 first-quarter yards. he also added a receiving touchdown on a short pass before spinning off danny spond and into the end zone. 
by cHris allen 
sports editor 

mIamI gardens, fla. — at the conclusion of alabama’s 42-14 victory over notre dame on monday night in the bcs national championship game, the two starting quar­terbacks went in separate directions. as alabama’s ex­perienced redshirt junior a.J. mccarron won his second na­tional title as a starter, notre dame’s sophomore everett golson walked off the field quietly. 
notre dame had fallen short, but the first-year start­er focused after the game on the opportunity to grow, in the hopes of one day standing where mccarron was. 
“I’m kind of just taking this game under my belt,” golson said. “like I said, I’ll just gain the experience from it, and re­ally looking forward to next year, knowing that I’ve got to be more of a leader, and just being more of a leader to this team and trying to make this team better.” 
In the biggest game of his life, golson had a mixed per­formance statistically but was one of notre dame’s best performers on either side of the ball. The sophomore was 21-of-36 through the air for 270 yards and one touch­down with an interception. he added a rushing touch­down to put notre dame on the scoreboard in the third quarter. 

but notre dame’s offense failed to convert consistently on third-down conversions as golson could not establish the rhythm needed to put up points with alabama. 
“we just had to go out and affect [golson],” alabama linebacker nico Johnson said. “we felt he was their true lead­er and if he was rolling, the team was rolling. we wanted to go out and affect him the best we could and stop them.” 
golson gave notre dame fans a bright spot with his second-half performance, bringing the Irish from a 28-0 hole at halftime and putting 14 points on the board in the second half. after a first half in which the young signal-caller made some question­able throws on short-distance conversions, golson settled in with 182 passing yards af­ter throwing for just 88 in the first half. 
much of that production owed to downfield connec­tions with sophomore wide receiver daVaris daniels and junior wide receiver T.J. Jones, who both produced big num­bers in the loss. 
“It took us a while to get a feel for their defense,” Jones said. “They played more press-man than we thought they would, which changed their look in the box. we tried to carve out a run game while having an effective pass game, but it took us a while to get used to it. 
“I just had to find a way to keep the play open when everett [golson] got into space. I played more physi­cal with the dbs rather than finessing them, which helped me out.” 
after the game, Irish coach brian kelly was asked to re­flect on the future of his of­fense with the trio of golson, daniels and Jones returning in the passing game. kelly asked his young quarterback a question instead. 
“well, if everett would come back for another year — are you coming back?” he said. 
The quarterback who came up short against a counterpart with multiple national cham­pionships responded with a laugh that he would return. 
“we worry about whether he wants to play basketball,” kelly said jokingly. “These guys have played great com­petition across the board from the start of the season to the end, and obviously it’s only going to help them going forward.” 
for golson and his emerg­ing offensive weapons, going forward will mean return­ing to the same stage again and achieving a far different result. 
contact chris allen at callen10@nd.edu 




lackadaisical first quarter buries notre dame 
by mattHeW deFranKs 
associate sports editor 
mIamI gardens, fla. — Two plays into the game, it all looked okay for no. 1 notre dame. 
after a 17-yard kickoff re­turn and a 1-yard run, the Irish (12-1) had stuffed no. 2 alabama on consecutive plays — but then it all un­raveled. Three of the next four plays went for at least 10 yards, notre dame com­mitted two penalties and the crimson Tide (13-1) claimed a 7-0 lead on their way to a 42-14 drubbing of the previ­ously undefeated Irish to win the national title. 
alabama stunned the Irish with a game-opening 5-play, 82-yard touchdown drive capped by junior running back eddie lacy’s 20-yard romp into the end zone. The quick march down the field was the first drive of at least 80 yards against notre dame this season. 
“I think [Irish coach brian kelly] told us before the game that there are eight minutes that are very important in the game, the first two min­utes of the game, the last two minutes in the second quar­ter, the first two minutes of the third quarter and the last two minutes of the game, and obviously the first two minutes of the game didn’t pan out the way we thought it would go,” Irish senior linebacker manti Te’o said. 

“and so there’s nothing that we can say, but we know now that the first two min­utes are very, very important to the momentum and your success in the game.” 
after a three-and-out by the Irish and a 15-yard pen­alty on notre dame, the crimson Tide took over again at its own 39-yard line. The crimson Tide retained pos­session of the ball following a questionable fair catch in­terference penalty on notre dame that negated a recov­ered fumble by the Irish. 
“That would have been a nice play to go our way ear­ly in the game,” kelly said. “obviously it didn’t go our way, but as you mentioned, it certainly didn’t change the outcome of this football game.” 
alabama gained positive yards on all but one play dur­ing a 10-play, 61-yard touch­down drive. The crimson Tide kept the Irish off bal­ance by alternating running and passing plays on the drive. Junior quarterback a.J. mccarron connected with senior tight end michael williams on a 3-yard touch­down pass. 
entering the bcs national championship game, the Irish defense had allowed just nine points in the previ­ous 12 first quarters. against the crimson Tide, notre dame yielded 14 points and four ticks in the second quar­ter, alabama added another touchdown to go up 21-0. 
In the first quarter alone, lacy had 72 yards on eight carries and a touchdown. only six players had more than 72 rushing yards in a game against notre dame this season. he finished with 140 yards on the ground. 
alabama had 202 total yards in the quarter while holding notre dame to 23. In the remaining three quar­ters, notre dame allowed 327 yards. 
The crimson Tide ran 22 plays and held the ball for more than 12 minutes in the period; the Irish, eight plays and less than three minutes. alabama was also a per­fect three-for-three on third downs. 
“we didn’t do a good job at all in the first half of get­ting our defense off the field. They played too many plays and we have to do a better job of getting them off the field,” senior offensive tackle Zack martin said. 
contact matthew deFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
SCORING SUMMARY 

1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
14  14  7  7  42  
0  0  7  7  14  





ALABAMA 7, NOTRE DAME 0 
eddie lacy 20-yard run (shelley kick) 

12:03 remaining 
Drive: Five plays, 82 yards, 2:57 elapsed 
ALABAMA 14, NOTRE DAME 0 
michael williams  three-yard pass from mccarron  (shelley kick) 

6:14 remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 61 yards, 4:49 elapsed 
ALABAMA 21, NOTRE DAME 0 
T.J. yeldon one-yard run (shelley kick) 

14:56 remaining 
Drive: Eight plays, 80 yards, 4:26 elapsed 
ALABAMA 28, NOTRE DAME 0 
eddie lacy  11-yard pass from mccarron  (shelley kick) 

0:31remaining 
Drive: Nine plays, 71 yards, 3:21 elapsed 
ALABAMA 35, NOTRE DAME 0 
amari cooper  34-yard pass from mccarron  (shelley kick) 

7:34remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 97 yards, 5:37 elapsed 
ALABAMA 35, NOTRE DAME 7 
golson two-yard run (brindza kick) 

4:08 remaining 
Drive: Nine plays, 85 yards, 3:26 elapsed 
ALABAMA 42, NOTRE DAME 7 
amari cooper  19-yard pass from mccarron  (shelley kick) 

11:27remaining 
Drive: 14 plays, 86 yards, 7:41 elapsed 
ALABAMA 42, NOTRE DAME 14 
riddick six-yard pass from golson (brindza kick) 

7:51 remaining 
STATISTICS 
Drive: 10 plays, 75 yards, 3:36 elapsed 

RUSHING YARDS 32  265  
PASSING YARDS  264  
270  
Time of Possession  Time of Possession  
21:47  38:13  
PASSING Golson  21-36-270  McCarron  20-28-264  
RUSHING Riddick Wood Golson RECEIVING Daniels Jones Eifert Riddick Wood TACKLES Motta Te’o Russell Farley Fox Nix KICKOFF RETURNS Atkinson  10-37 4-2 5-(-)7 6-115 7-90 6-61 1-6 1-(-)2 16 10 8 6 6 5 3-47  Lacy Yeldon McCarron Cooper Norwood Jones Williams Lacy Mosley Clinton-Dix Lester Belue Collins Depriest Jones  20-140 21-108 1-9 6-105 3-66 2-40 3-17 2-17 8 7 6 4 3 3 2-31  




The obserVer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserVer.com 


experience proves its worth in managing layoff 
by allan JosepH 
editor-in-chief 
mIamI gardens, fla. — The 2013 bcs national championship game was alabama coach nick saban’s fourth appearance in a na­tional title game and third with the crimson Tide. with all that experience, saban knows exactly how to prepare a squad over the over-month­long layoff between its final regular-season game and the biggest one of the season — and he proved it again in sun life stadium. 
“we kind of have a pro­gram, an approach that we use that is a little different defense. 
“I think with the time that we had to prepare, our play­ers had a really good under­standing of notre dame’s defense and how they played defense,” he said. “They play a 3-4 defense, which is sim­ilar to ours, so it wasn’t a unique thing for our players to get accustomed to.” 
on the other sideline, the Irish started sloppy, miss­ing countless tackles in the first quarter and going down 21-0 after five seconds had elapsed in the second quar­ter. Two days before the game, notre dame defensive coordinator bob diaco had expressed confidence in the 

“I think with the time that we had to prepare, our players had a really good understanding of Notre Dame’s defense.” 
Nick Saban Crimson Tide coach 
than what we used to use be­cause there’s so much time between games,” saban said Jan. 8. “and I feel like our players are comfortable with that in terms of how we prac­tice, how we prepare, how we sort of don’t try to carry the psychological momentum from the season to the game, and let that happen when we get closer to the game.” 
offenses and defenses tra­ditionally practice against scout teams in practice, but alabama defensive end damion square said a big part of the crimson Tide’s philosophy over the layoff, put together in conjunction with defensive coordinator kirby smart, is maintaining players’ physical edge having the first-team offense and first-team defense practice against each other regularly. 
“we practiced hard so we could make this happen. we practice schedule Irish coach brian kelly had put together. 
“coach kelly put a great schedule together and re­ally managed it well,” diaco said. “we get our fundamen­tal work done in segmented drills. we try to be as careful as we can, but we understand it’s critical that we get our work in fundamentally.” 
kelly, who had talked to the lsu and oregon pro­grams for advice on dealing with the layoff, said after the game he would reevaluate how he prepared his team. 
“I have to evaluate whether I did a good enough job as the head coach in getting tack­ling done for our players,” he said. “I think everything is on the table when you see so many missed tackles. but again, that will require a lit­tle bit of research and look­ing at it a little bit more in depth.” 


Irish running back cierre wood said he thought alabama’s experience pre­paring for the game — it was the crimson Tide’s third appearance in for years — 
provided  saban’s  squad  an  
advantage.  
“If  you’ve  been  there  nu­ 

merous times, you know how 
to act. you know what it takes to be successful in that type of game,” he said. “I’m not saying we didn’t have what it took to be successful, we just didn’t have it as down pat as they did. 
after seeing the success of saban’s method, kelly said he and his staff would con­tinue to grow while looking toward the future. 
“we’re all going to learn, not just the players, [but the] coaches. we hadn’t been in this game, either,” he said. “so we’re going to learn a great deal from it and be bet­ter coaches from it as well.” 
contact allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

paId adVerTIsemenT 
went ‘ones against ones’ and got ready,” square said. “we know that we are the most physical team in the country. you have to know that you are the stronger team because that is how you will play. we knew one team would break and it wasn’t going to be us.” 
crimson Tide offen­sive tackle d.J. fluker said alabama had prepared to play a more physical game than the Irish. 
“when we watched film, we saw boston college push them around. we knew that if they could do it, we could do it,” fluker said. “They were kind of predictable on defense. we knew what they would do so it was just a mat­ter of executing. They have great players but we came here on a mission. we weren’t leaving without it. They are physical, but we outplayed them.” 
saban said extensive film study helped his offense find holes in notre dame’s 





A SEASON TO REMEMBER 
Notre Dame goes from unranked in the preseason to No. 1 in shining regular season, plays for first title in 24 years 
sentiment among the fanbase program had missed for years. 
by obserVer Football 

was clear, if unspoken: 2012 behind a 12-0 regular sea-
Writers 

would be a rebuilding year, son, the Irish asserted them-
Irish coach brian kelly en-with 2013 the coming-out selves among the nation’s elite tered his third season at notre party.  but kelly had different and reached the bcs national dame with what seemed to be plans. championship game. Their many question marks and few as has been the case with star linebacker set a record for answers. with an unresolved so many Irish coaches before national awards won and fin-quarterback situation, off-sea-him, kelly’s third year marked ished second in the heisman son turmoil with disciplinary the breakthrough — the de-trophy balloting. issues and player departures fense reached championship most of all, they showed that following a bumpy 2011 sea-levels, he found his quarter-the program so desperate for a son, a daunting 2012 schedule back in sophomore everett resurgence has finally found a 
— ranked the most difficult golson and his squad learned coach capable of returning the in the country before the sea-how to win close games, a Irish to the pinnacle of college son — awaited the Irish. The characteristic the notre dame football. 

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 

Senior running back Theo Riddick celebrates after scoring a rushing touchdown in Notre Dame’s 50-10 victory over Navy in Dublin on Sept. 1. Riddick led Notre Dame in rushing in 2012 with 880 yards on the ground after the BCS National Championship Game. The former slot receiver was Notre Dame’s third-leading receiver with 35 receptions on the year. 
Notre Dame 50, Navy 10 defense that’s very stingy against the fourth quarter. a 27-yard field 
The 2012 season began across the run,” kelly said. “That’s a huge goal by sophomore kicker kyle the atlantic ocean as notre dame reason why. we’re very blessed brindza in the game’s final sec-played in dublin for the first time with a physical group, a great onds secured a 20-17 victory and a in 16 years. The Irish were without scheme, they’re well-coached and 2-0 start. junior quarterback Tommy rees, it’s not often you can hold navy after the game, kelly heralded senior linebacker carlo calabrese, down to 10 points.” his team’s resiliency after several junior defensive lineman Justin Te’o recovered a fumble and in-key starters were relegated to the utupo and senior running back tercepted a pass in the victory — bench due to injury. cierre wood, all of whom were both career firsts. “The story for me as the head left in south bend due to various roughly 35,000 americans trav-coach is our mantra: next man in,” suspensions. eled to Ireland for the game and kelly said. “we had seven guys go 
In golson’s first game action, 49,000 fans packed sold-out aviva down today. our key players. we notre dame trounced navy 50-10. stadium to see the Irish win the had two captains go down. ... our The Irish jumped ahead 27-0 in season opener. guys just kept fighting. The next the second quarter when sopho-guy came in and battled. and as more defensive end stephon Tuitt Notre Dame 20, Purdue 17 you know, the story finishes with returned a fumble 77 yards for a after beginning the season in a Tommy rees coming in for golson touchdown. foreign country, the Irish returned and leading us on a two-minute 
“stephon is a tremendous ath-home september 8 to the most fa-drive to win the game.” lete with some speed,” senior line-miliar of territory — notre dame golson and his purdue coun­backer manti Te’o said. “when you stadium. terparts under center — caleb see no. 7, he can outrun pretty as celebrations rang out across Terbush and robert marve — passing, was stripped of the ball said. “we also made the decision much any skill player on offense.” campus to ring in the 125th season struggled to put points on the inside his own 25-yard line and with the flow of the game that 
The Irish held navy’s triple-op-of notre dame football, inside the board in the first half against fierce purdue capitalized with another Tommy could come in there and tion rushing attack to 149 yards, stadium the Irish tangled with a pass rushes, and the teams en-touchdown to edison to tie the manage our two-minute [drill] while notre dame amassed 293. physical purdue team in golson’s tered the locker room tied at seven. score at 17. That set the stage for and he did a great job. sophomore running back george home debut. on the strength of a third-the former starter rees to enter the “Tommy’s a guy, if you look at it atkinson scored his first career of-golson’s debut in front of the quarter touchdown pass to junior game, to a chorus of boos, and lead in baseball terms, he’s a closer. he fensive touchdown with a 56-yard home faithful took an unexpected wideout T.J. Jones and brindza’s the Irish to victory. can close for you.” score in the first quarter. turn after a late turnover, as rees first career field goal, the Irish “[golson] had trouble gripping with the win, the Irish moved to 
“I think we’re just carrying came off the bench to lead notre held a late 17-10 lead. golson, who the ball. I think he could have on where we were last year as a dame on a game-winning drive in finished the day with 289 yards probably still have gone,” kelly see golson PAGE 8 






Golson 
he also recovered a fumble, re-were impressive, but his two last-Te’o said. “I think, you know, when since 2006. The Irish would not corded a tackle for loss and broke second, come-from-behind wins your defense is disappointed that leave the top 10 the rest of the 
conTInued from page 7 

up two passes. over the Irish meant notre dame they kicked a field goal and made season. 
golson finished the game an seniors were 0-3 against the hated it, that’s when you know, like, 
2-0 for the first time since 2008 unimpressive 14-for-32 for 178 wolverines. ‘dang, we are going to be good.’ ” Notre Dame 41, Miami 3 and set the stage for a prime-yards but it was one play that but thanks to another inspired a week removed from a solid The annual home-away-from­time clash with also-undefeated proved the difference for the Irish. showing by Te’o and another re-road showing at michigan state, home contest known as the michigan state. on 2nd-and-9 from the lief appearance by rees, the Irish golson could not get the offense shamrock series took the notre 
michigan state 36-yard line, notched another win and moved going. he threw two intercep-dame home game experience just Notre Dame 20, golson rolled to his right and to 4-0 with a 13-6 victory. tions on his first eight passes and down the road to chicago against Michigan State 3 evaded pressure before stopping Te’o, a week after a 12-tackle finished with just 30 yards before old rival miami. 
This was supposed to be the one and launching a cross-field pass performance in a 20-3 win over kelly pulled him in the second The trip to the windy city that got the no. 20 Irish. to graduate student receiver John michigan state, tallied eight tack-quarter. golson threw a pick on his proved to be a breeze for the ris­
golson, fresh off a late-game goodman. goodman fought off les, two interceptions and added first pass and one on his last pass ing Irish as running backs cierre benching the previous week, was a spartan defensive back before two quarterback hurries as the into the end zone. wood and george atkinson broke about to face his first true road making a spectacular one-handed lei-wearing fans in notre dame rees replaced golson and fin-out to lead a 376-yard rushing per-game in a raucous east lansing, touchdown catch to give the Irish stadium rallied around him in a ished 8-for-11 for 115 yards. he formance for notre dame. The mich., environment. spartans ju-an early 7-0 lead. difficult personal time. also added a two-yard touchdown Irish ran the hurricanes off the nior running back le’Veon bell “That’s who I was looking for. It “[manti] is the guy in there,” plunge for his first career rushing field in a 41-3 blowout at soldier (who would finish the season wasn’t really designed in the play,” kelly said. “I mean, it all evolves score after starting 12 games the field. third in the ncaa with 138 rush-golson said. “I think that’s one of around him, his personality, his previous season. “clearly, we felt like we found ing yards per game) was still a the things I talked about previ-strength. he’s a special guy. Take “we’re fairly comfortable if we a way to run the football today,” heisman Trophy candidate. ously about improvising. I think advantage of him while you’ve got need Tommy to come in and han-kelly said. “we felt like if we could 
history was against notre me and goodman kind of con-him now, because I’ve never been dle some of the offense for us, if keep them from getting the big dame, too. It had been 10 years nected a little bit and we scored a around a kid like that.” we feel like it’s necessary, we will,” plays, and we could run the foot-since notre dame began the touchdown.” Te’o and the notre dame de-kelly said. “he’s a great asset to ball, that was going to be our rec-season 3-0 and seven since the Through three games, the Irish fense forced the wolverines into have if you need him. To close out ipe for success.” Irish topped a top-10 opponent. had yielded just 30 points, the low-six turnovers and limited them to a game, we’ll continue to go that The Irish got a break in the ear­michigan state had not yet al-est total since the 1988 team al-299 total yards. at one point in the route. we’d like to continue to de-ly going as miami wide receiver lowed an offensive touchdown lowed 27 during notre dame’s last first half, the Irish intercepted five velop everett so that we don’t have phillip dorsett got behind the and carried a 15-game home win-national championship season. consecutive michigan passes. to do that, but we’re still going to notre dame secondary on two ning streak into the matchup. “The most important thing is “defensively, what can I say, six try to win football games anyway early plays, but dropped two cer­
so when notre dame pulled off that our defense continues to be turnovers, limited what we felt is possible.” tain touchdown passes. The Irish a 20-3 upset of no. 10 michigan the group that we had committed one of the most dynamic offensive despite forcing six turnovers recovered and shut down miami’s state, which eventually finished to in building when we started this players in the country to no touch-and holding michigan in check, offense for the remainder of the 7-6, kelly had a simple way of de-process, and they’re starting to get downs,” kelly said. “[It was] just the Irish still needed late heroics game. scribing the win. to that level that can play against an incredible performance by our to seal the win. rees found senior Though they held a slim 13-3 
“It’s a signature win,” kelly said. anybody,” kelly said. defense.” tight end Tyler eifert for a 38-yard lead at halftime, the Irish offensive “There’s no question that when The win marked the second strike on third-and-four and se-line dominated the line of scrim-you go on the road against the no. Notre Dame 13, Michigan 6 straight week the Irish did not al-nior running back Theo riddick mage in the second half as wood, 10-ranked team in the country denard robison had tormented low a touchdown. It was the first converted another third down atkinson and sophomore running and you beat them, it’s definitely the no. 11 Irish for the previous time since 1943 that notre dame three plays later to close the game back cam mcdaniel combined for going to build some confidence in two years. kept michigan out of the end zone. out. four second-half rushing touch-that locker room.” The senior quarterback’s 944 “I think, for us, we are trying to The win pushed notre dame downs to complete the rout. 
The Irish defense, led by Te’o’s total yards and eight touchdowns not let [the offense] get any points,” into the top 10 for the first time “when you start to break the 12 tackles, stifled bell and the 
other team’s will, it starts to show,” spartans. bell was held to just 77 
senior guard chris watt said. “we yards and sacked spartans junior 
were able to do that — that was our quarterback andrew maxwell four 
goal going into the second half. we times. michigan state’s only points 
knew we had came on a first-half 50-yard field 
established the running game. goal as the spartans totaled only 
we wanted to keep up with it too.” 237 yards of offense. 
moments after notre dame “obviously we felt like if we can 
completed the victory to go 5-0, get [bell] under control and force 
espn’s “college gameday” an­[michigan state] to throw the foot­
nounced on social media it would ball, we would much rather have 
bring its weekly on-campus pre­that scenario than him grinding 
game show to south bend for the football at us,” kelly said. “I 
the clash between the Irish and think once they started to throw 
stanford the next week. the football more, that was ex­actly where we’re hoping the game 
Notre Dame 20, Stanford 13 
would kind of shift towards, and it 

with a 5-0 record and did.” 
“gameday” on notre dame’s Te’o’s performance came on the 
campus for the first time since heels of one of the toughest weeks 
2005, the Irish welcomed stanford in his life. within 24 hours, Te’o 
to notre dame stadium as the sev­found out about the deaths of both 
enth-ranked team in the nation. his grandmother and his girlfriend The game turned out to be but still played just days later with a heavy heart. see sTanford PAGE 9 




Stanford 49 yards to the stanford 16-yard “It was pretty clear that we were line. after a 12-play, 67-yard drive going to be able to control both 
conTInued from page 8 

by the cardinal, sophomore de-sides of the ball on the offensive exactly what pundits expected — fensive end stephon Tuitt blocked line and defensive line,” kelly said. a defensive brawl between two of a field goal. “and you know, [we] really stuck college football’s most physical “I think they know that they are with our game plan. came in teams. a good football team more than here wanting to run the football. 
stanford did not score an of-anything else,” kelly said. “I think Thought we controlled that quite fensive touchdown during the en-they feel they earned the win to-well.” tire game and notre dame didn’t day. They came from behind, The cougars became the first reach the end zone until the first right.  They didn’t luck into it.  They team since purdue to score an of-minute of the fourth quarter, when won in overtime.  I think if they fensive touchdown against the eifert hauled in a 24-yard pass lucked into it, you know, maybe a Irish with a touchdown midway from golson in the end zone. fumble on the goal line or some-through the second quarter. They 
The game went to overtime af-thing happened, maybe you could scored again two minutes later. ter rees led the Irish down the field make that case. “we weren’t used to [giving up for a game-tying field goal after “but they won that game. They touchdowns],” Te’o said. “It made golson suffered a concussion. earned that win. and so I think I me mad, and it made a lot of guys 
In the extra period, rees con-would rather have them believe mad and when they scored again, nected with junior T.J. Jones on that each and every week, if they it really made us mad.” a seven-yard touchdown pass prepare, that they can beat any to give notre dame its first lead opponent.” Notre Dame 30, since midway through the second for the third time this season, Oklahoma 13 quarter. rees replaced golson (though this despite being no. 5 in the bcs 
The Irish defense, after allowing time for injury reasons), and led standings, notre dame went into stanford to reach the 5-yard line, notre dame to the win. norman, okla. as heavy under­achieved a goal-line stand that se-“Tommy is level-headed, locked dogs to the no. 8 sooners. yet the Te’o wasn’t the only one to turn unbeaten teams ahead of the Irish cured the 20-13 overtime victory. in,” Te’o said. “as the game gets on, Irish emerged with more than just heads on the defensive side of would be a more challenging task 
“It comes to fruition in the way it’s easy to let your guard down a a 30-13 win, but also a legitimate the ball. freshman cornerback than the visiting 4-4 panthers. the game ended and our team little bit thinking you’re not go-shot at contending for a national keiVarae russell led the secondary but pittsburgh gave notre dame coming up with great goal line ing to go in. but Tommy is always championship. with nine tackles against landry the biggest scare of the season, as stand,” kelly said. “classic.” locked in and taking notes from “our kids were confident,” kelly Jones and a vaunted oklahoma the Irish would need a heroic late-
with four downs and three yards where he’s standing so that when said. “They came in well prepared. passing attack. game performance from golson, a from the end zone, the cardinal he gets in opportunity, he can go in I told them that I was very confi-“There’s a young man that keeps couple fortuitous breaks and three gave the ball to star running back there and help our team win, just dent in their ability to go out on the getting better and keeps compet-overtimes to defeat the panthers stepfan Taylor four times, and four like he did today.” road and play very good football. ing,” kelly said. “who would’ve 29-26 and keep the dream season times he was denied a score. “I thought that they exhibited thought a true freshman would alive. 
“That’s what stanford does,” Notre Dame 17, BYU 14 that confidence in the first half and be able to go out and do the things “we all believe in each other,” kelly said. “I don’t think you can sandwiched between an emo-in the second half the focus was on he’s done? he’s been so instru-riddick said. “I think we showed a fault [stanford] for doing what tional overtime win over stanford physical and mental toughness.” mental in what we’re doing on the lot of courage and a lot of belief out they do. That’s their offense.” and a giant road test at oklahoma, The game-changing play of back end of the defense.” there today, because there were a 
following the fourth-down the matchup with the cougars was the night came from a pair of after the game, kelly warned lot of times we could have gave up.” stop, players and coaches ran onto heralded as a trap game. underclassmen with 8:29 left in his team against looking past The Irish came out uninspired the field, but the officials cleared when golson was ruled out be-the fourth quarter and the score pittsburgh the following week. after their best performance of the the playing area to review the cause of a concussion, rees again knotted at 13. on second down “They’re a pretty smart group season and trailed for most of the play. The decision, however, was took the reins of the Irish offense at the notre dame 35, golson and know if they start with what game, including by a 20-6 mar-upheld, and notre dame was 6-0 and no. 5 notre dame squeaked dropped backed to pass and pin-we’ve done and the process of gin at the end of the third quarter. and eyeing a bowl championship out a tight 17-14 win over byu. pointed freshman receiver chris preparing for pittsburgh, they’ll early in the fourth quarter, how-series (bcs) berth for the first time rees, who led notre dame to brown 50 yards downfield be-be fine,” kelly said. “That’s what I ever, notre dame showed signs of in six years. victories over purdue, michigan hind the sooner secondary at the told them in the locker room — I life with a golson-to-Jones touch­
golson fumbled in notre and stanford, finished the game oklahoma 15. said to enjoy a great victory against down pass, immediately followed dame’s end zone in the second 7-for-16 for 117 yards, one touch-“we saw that they were in man oklahoma. now let’s find a way to by a missed extra point. quarter. stanford recovered it for down and one interception. kelly coverage and I think the play beat pittsburgh.” with just minutes remaining, a touchdown and, for the first said he went with rees despite action set it up,” golson said. golson engineered another touch-time all season, the Irish trailed. golson’s desire to play. “[brown] ended up winning with Notre Dame 29, down drive — but for it to matter, notre dame, however, did not al-“[golson] wanted to play,” kelly a great move and I just kind of Pittsburgh 26 notre dame needed a two-point low the cardinal offense to score said. “he made his case. I just felt stepped up in the pocket and gave after making a national state-conversion. after being benched a touchdown, extending the Irish like where we were during and my it a little bit of air and let him run ment in norman, no. 3 notre shortly before halftime and re­defense’s streak of not allowing a evaluation of him cumulatively, I under.” dame returned home to face what turning later in the game, the touchdown to four games. felt like this was the best thing to golson ran the ball into the end appeared to be the beginning of young quarterback scrambled to 
notre dame’s defense came up do… we feel like we’ve got a kid zone five plays later to give the the easiest stretch of its schedule. his right and dove into the end with some critical plays to halt a now that’s 100 percent ready to go Irish a lead they would never give sitting pretty at 8-0, it appeared few early stanford drives. senior for oklahoma.” back in a game that proved to be finding a way to surpass the two see kelly PAGE 10 cornerback bennett Jackson inter-riddick added a career-high a big step in the development of a cepted a pass at the 1-yard line in 149 yards while wood chipped in first-year starting quarterback. the first quarter to end a five-play, 114 of his own on the ground. The “I don’t think six or seven weeks 27-yard drive. Two possessions lat-Irish defense allowed just 66 rush-ago I could’ve done something like er, farley returned an interception ing yards to the cougars. that,” golson said. “I didn’t have 
the same feel for the guys then.” 
The Irish gave up their first rush­ing touchdown of the season to backup quarterback blake bell but also limited the sooners to only 15 rushing yards in the entire game. 
“That always is tough when you’re not able to run it and when you throw it more than you want,” sooners coach bob stoops said. 
with his performance manti Te’o recorded his 400th tackle in his collegiate career jumped to the forefront of the heisman Trophy race. Te’o recorded eight tackles in the first quarter alone and also added an acrobatic interception that sealed the game in the fourth quarter. 
“he represents all of the things the heisman Trophy espouses: in­tegrity, character, a great football player,” kelly said. 






up one of the best plays I think he this football game more than any 
Kelly 
had when he ran it on third down, game we’ve played this year.” 
conTInued from page 9 
put his foot in the ground and ran with 13:27 left in the fourth 

zone to convert the two-point north and south and showed some quarter, kelly called a timeout try, sending notre dame stadium real toughness. we were effective to let the seniors — Zeke motta, into a frenzy. because our quarterback was ef-lewis-moore and Te’o — on the 
“I did a good job of being with the fective tonight.” nation’s no. 1 scoring defense team down the stretch. coming notre dame suffocated the to exit the game to standing out today, I know we came out a eagles’ rushing attack, holding ovations. little flat,” golson said. “ but I felt boston college to 53 yards on the “Just magic,” Te’o said, describ­like down the stretch we came to-ground and junior linebacker ing the moment. “like every­gether, and I felt like I did a great prince shembo sacked eagles thing’s come full circle, [I’m] just MACKENZIE SAIN | The Observer 
job in the end.” junior quarterback chase rettig very grateful.” Everett Golson drops back in the pocket against Boston College. 
The teams traded field goals in three times. all eyes then went to los Golson rushed for a touchdown and threw two against the Eagles. the first overtime, and notre dame “I wasn’t doing anything spe-angeles, with a berth in the bcs was on the goal line in the second cial, just chasing quarterbacks,” national championship game on overtime when wood fumbled the shembo said. “In the past weeks, the line. 
ball away. pittsburgh kicker kevin I would get to the quarterback harper lined up for a 33-yard field and he would throw the ball every Notre Dame 22, USC 13 goal that would win the game and time, throw it out of bounds. This sitting atop the bcs standings missed it wide right, keeping the guy wanted to hold it so I was like and needing just a win to clinch Irish in the contest. ‘all right, cool, it’s about time.’” a trip to miami, notre dame had 
In the third overtime, the Tuitt and graduate student only to vanquish a foe it had only panthers managed just a field goal kapron lewis-moore each had a beaten once in the previous de­on their possession, and golson sack and Te’o grabbed his sixth in-cade: usc. after a back-and-forth found the end zone moments later terception of the season. battle highlighted by yet another on a quarterback sneak to com-goal-line stand, however, the Irish plete an improbable comeback. Notre Dame 38, earned one of the most important 
“It feels great,” senior captain Wake Forest 0 wins in the rivalry’s history and and tackle Zack martin said. senior day started with a celebrated a perfect regular sea­“That’s the biggest message in that standing ovation for Te’o in his son in the los angeles coliseum. “you just look at his jersey af-national championship, it’s some-locker room. we’re 9-0. we’re still last home game and ended with “It was as you would’ve expect-ter the game and you go, ‘There’s thing spectacular. undefeated. and although we had a no. 1 ranking. In between, no. 3 ed,” kelly said of the postgame no wonder why this team has the “It’s awesome. you just put the a lot of mistakes and we have a lot notre dame ran away with a 38-0 scene in the locker room. “There toughness that it does,’” kelly said. ball down and if there’s time on of things to clean up, we’ve still got blowout win to complete an un-was a lot of singing, dancing. It after leading 16-10 at halftime, the clock we’re going to battle. that ‘zero’ on our record.” defeated season at home. was what you would expect it to the Irish extended their lead to we’re not going to give up. This 
“It’s just a relief for us to win in be for a team that’s this close and nine into the fourth quarter. with team and this defense, we’ve got a Notre Dame 21, the fashion that we did, you know, has won so many games in that just five minutes standing be-lot of character. we’ve got a lot of Boston College 6 just clicking on all cylinders and fashion. It was fun to be in there.” tween notre dame and a perfect guys that play hard, and they play 
no. 4 notre dame converted on everybody is playing with a lot of after usc senior quarterback regular season, the Trojans found with heart. as long as you put the its first 10 third downs and golson enthusiasm and energy just on all matt barkley was unable to start their stride, facing first-and-goal ball down and they’re not in the completed 16 of 24 passes for 200 sides of the ball and just getting due to a shoulder injury, freshman with five minutes to go. but the end zone we’re going to fight.” yards and two touchdowns as the after it,” Te’o said. “That’s a great max wittek started his first game Irish stuffed three consecutive after the clock expired and the Irish cruised to 10-0 with a 21-6 way to end my career playing here for the Trojans. wittek struggled rushing attempts, usc fullback celebrating players trickled from win over boston college. in notre dame.” to find a rhythm with his talented soma Vainuku couldn’t hold onto the field towards the visiting lock­
golson and the Irish were lethal due to losses later that evening duo of receivers all night long, and a fourth-down pass in the end er room, Te’o found his head coach on third down from the beginning, to no. 1 kansas state and no. 2 the notre dame defense held its zone and notre dame had yet in the tunnel and embraced him. converting on three third downs oregon, notre dame vaulted to opponent to under 20 points for again preserved its season with “I said, ‘I love you.’ I love him,” on a 95-yard touchdown march no. 1 in the bcs standings for the the 11th time all season. an iconic goal-line stand. Te’o said. “[our relationship] was on their first possession. golson first time in program history. “I think notre dame showed “If you followed us at all this bumpy at first, but it’s great [now]. capped the 13-play drive with a The Irish jumped out to a 21-0 me they have phenomenal senior year, that was how we play,” kelly I’m happy to be part of this and 2-yard dive into the end zone. first quarter lead behind two leadership,” embattled usc coach said. “we come up big defensively have him as our coach. he’s the 
“everett golson played the way touchdown passes from golson lane kiffin said. “you can see at sometime during the game. we best coach in college football.” he needs to play, especially in the and a 68-yard touchdown run on those guys understand the game did that again. unbelievable goal-after a victory over their hated red zone,” kelly said. “once he the opening drive from wood. and they really play well together. line stand to hold any program, rival, the Irish were able to cel­starts playing at the level we need golson finished with 346 passing They’re really physical and pretty any team … to get inside your two ebrate what had seemed only a him in the red zone, we’ll start yards, three touchdowns and one old school — that’s why they have and come up with a great goal-few months earlier to be nothing scoring touchdowns and not just interception and wood finished so many close scores — but they line stand.” more than a dream: an undefeat­field goals.” with a season-high 150 yards on don’t screw up. you have to play The goal-line stand capped a ed regular season and a return to 
dating back to the pittsburgh 11 carries as notre dame com-really well to beat them. They season filled with moments that college football’s elite. game, notre dame converted on piled 584 yards of total offense. don’t hand you things.” will find their place in Irish lore, “we’ve brought a lot of pride 12 consecutive third downs before “we have a paradigm for win-riddick had perhaps the best and lewis-moore said it exempli-back to notre dame,” Te’o said. an incompletion in the third quar-ning,” kelly said. “It’s something game of his career in his final reg-fied notre dame’s attitude. “I’m grateful to be a part of it.” ter stopped the streak. we talk about actually in our lock-ular-season game, rushing for 146 “we did it,” lewis-moore said. 
“we did a nice job on third er room. It’s called four quarters of yards on 20 carries and adding 33 “we did it. It’s crazy, you know? contact the observer’s down,” kelly said. “our quarter-winning. receiving yards while breaking no. 1 and keeping that no. 1 beat writers at back play was really good, picked “I think that came together in tackle after usc tackle. and being 12-0 and playing for a observersports@gmail.com 







Seniors reflect on final game, collegiate careers 
by cHris allen 
sports editor 
mIamI gardens, fla. — for four months, manti Te’o’s se­nior season at notre dame un­folded in storybook fashion. Twelve times he walked off the field a victor as the Irish marched to the bcs national championship game. 
yet the linebacker made his final walk solemnly as crimson confetti rained down following notre dame’s season-ending 42-14 loss to alabama. following his final game in an Irish uniform, notre dame’s unquestioned leader said he was disap­pointed in the loss. 
“I’m obviously disappoint­ed. not necessarily that we lost, but just we didn’t rep­resent our school, our team, our families the way that we could have,” Te’o said. “but at the same time I’m proud to be a part of this team. what doesn’t kill you will only make you stronger. The best thing about this experience is it creates fire. It creates fuel for both the guys staying here and the guys leaving. and ev­erybody here … will be better for it.” 
playing for a champion­ship to cap off a season in which he energized the notre dame fan base with a runner-up heisman Trophy campaign, Te’o recorded 10 tackles against alabama as his defensive unit was gashed for 42 points by a powerful and precise crimson Tide attack. 
“It definitely sucks, to be quite honest,” Te’o said. “but I wouldn’t trade it for anything. I wouldn’t trade this team for anything. I wouldn’t do any­thing differently. obviously we wish the night could have ended in a different way.” 


Te’o’s fellow seniors all dealt with an unceremonious end to a senior year that few saw coming at the outset of fall training camp. graduate student defensive end kapron lewis-moore went down early in notre dame’s defeat with a knee injury that was later di­agnosed as a torn acl. senior tight end and mackey award winner Tyler eifert caught six passes for 61 yards and had a crucial catch on notre dame’s first offensive drive ruled incomplete on replay. senior safety Zeke motta re­corded a career-high 16 tack­les in the loss. motta said the seniors and the team played together despite the poor performance. 


brought notre dame from a 6-6 season in 2009 to the brink of a national champi­onship. after the game, Irish junior nose guard louis nix said it is up to the returning players to build on the prog­ress made by Te’o, eifert and the other seniors. 
“[The seniors] set the tone for us. They didn’t get the results we wanted, but they made history,” nix said. “we came back to the national stage, going 12-0. we got here against one of the best teams in the country. The seniors left their mark and we have to 
“I’m proud to be a part of this team. What doesn’t kill you will only make you stronger. The best thing about this experience is it creates fire. It creates fuel for both the guys staying here and the 
guys leaving.” 
Manti Te’o Irish senior linebacker 
“I mean, our whole team is a brotherhood, and I’m proud to say that we came out and kept fighting no matter what the situation was,” motta said.  “like I said earlier, like everybody has been saying, alabama came out and exe­cuted.  you can’t put it on one person or the other, it’s just a team thing.  and we just need to fight and learn from it. 
“I love all these brothers, and I’m fortunate to say that I’ve been here for four years and grown from that.” 
Though the senior class departed with a loss in its final game, it leaves having continue to build.” 
with the 2012 season in the books, several Irish seniors will turn to the nfl draft in april in hopes of playing foot­ball professionally. Te’o and eifert are expected to be se­lected early, but Te’o said he would forever identify him­self with notre dame. 
“The season, the year, my career here, I’ve been truly blessed to be at notre dame,” he said. “I’ll forever be proud to say I’m a notre dame fighting Irish.” 
contact chris allen at callen10@nd.edu 
paId adVerTIsemenT 
paId adVerTIsemenT 





2012 success paves the way for 2013 

andrew owens 
assistant managing editor 
mIamI gardens, fla. — 2012 wasn’t supposed to go like this. 
If notre dame had stayed true to the script, it would have gone 8-4 this season. Improvement would have been evident, even if not in the final record. The stage would be set for a 2013 bcs berth and Irish resurgence. 
but, thanks to a marvelous 12-0 regular season and no. 3 ranking in the final coaches’ poll after a championship game loss to alabama, 2013 looks brighter than anyone could have imagined four a little more than four short months ago. 
Irish coach brian kelly found a quarterback this sea­son after a fruitless search during his first two seasons that caused many of the hair-pulling and skepticism by the notre dame fan base. 
everett golson will start under center for the Irish for three more seasons after a re­markable freshman campaign that culminated with a learn­ing opportunity against the 
“The experience that he is able to take from this game, you can’t duplicate it if you’re sitting home or playing in a bowl game,” kelly said. “when you’re playing for a national championship, that stuff doesn’t leave you.” 
golson enters 2013 as the program’s unquestioned leader. The unit loses run­ning backs Theo riddick and cierre wood and tight end 
The true measuring stick for 2013 achievement is reaching a BCS bowl and, for the first time in program history, 

winning it. 
nation’s top defense seemingly every season and on a stage unlike any other. 


paId adVerTIsemenT 
paId adVerTIsemenT 

Tyler eifert to the nfl, but the continued development of no. 5 and young contributors such as receiver daVaris daniels should offset the loss. golson will take the offense by the reins and do what needs to be accomplished. 
defensively, manti Te’o highlights the crop of seniors defensive coordinator bob diaco’s unit loses. Te’o, kapron lewis-moore and Zeke motta depart, but a young secondary will have a full season under its belts and should be primed for improvement in 2013. (It could also be aided by the re­turn of Jamoris slaughter, who has petitioned the ncaa for a sixth year of eligibility after suffering a season-ending injury in week three.) 
The front seven will bulk up during the off-season and, even with the losses of Te’o and lewis-moore, be even more productive in 2013. 
defensive end stephon Tuitt, nose guard louis nix and cat linebacker prince shembo all return, and linebacker Ishaq williams and defensive line­men sheldon day and Jarron Jones will provide the unit depth that rivals any defense in the nation. 
It appears the coaching staff will remain intact, and that’s 

paId adVerTIsemenT 

a blessing for the Irish. The coaches are on the same page and demonstrated a cohesive­ness this season that the 2010 and 2011 groups did not. 
but even with all the rea­sons for excitement for next season, it’s a distinct pos­sibility — maybe even a probability — that a more talented team’s final desti­nation falls short of the bcs national championship game in pasadena, calif., and that doesn’t mean it will be a failure. 
The true measuring stick for 2013 achievement is reaching a bcs bowl and, for the first time in program history, win­ning it. 
now that the Irish have as­serted themselves among the nation’s elite, the next step is to sustain the success annu­ally. kelly and his staff’s plan has been embraced by the players and, if 2013 goes to script, the nation will realize notre dame is primed to re­main a national contender. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The obserVer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserVer.com 


Tackling issues plague Irish defense in romp 
by andreW oWens 
assistant managing editor 
mIamI gardens, fla. — after his unit had underper­formed in a 42-14 drubbing at the hands of alabama following elite play all season, nose guard louis nix sat in the notre dame locker room amidst a throng of report­ers, cameras and notepads. 
The 340-pound lineman lan­guished in the game’s aftermath, but stood firm in his explanation for the unit’s poor play. 
“we missed tackles,” he said. “There isn’t any other way to ex­plain it. we missed tackles and they got yards. 
“we just didn’t play our ball­game, man. we missed tackles. everything we did or had lined up should have worked, but we didn’t make tackles. That’s the ballgame.” 
The Irish defense, which had allowed 20 or more points in just one game this season, yielded 21 on alabama’s first three drives. crimson Tide running backs eddie lacy and T.J. yeldon ran wild on the notre dame de­fense for a combined two touch­downs and 248 yards, many of which were amassed after initial contact. 
“we didn’t tie up the ball carri­er, and that’s what happens,” nix said. “They did not dominate us. you can call it what you want.” 
forty-four days passed between notre dame’s regular-season finale at usc on nov. 24 and the bcs national championship game on Jan. 7, seemingly a day for each missed tackle registered by the Irish defense. but notre dame play­ers steadfastly rejected the lay­off as a reason for the lackluster performance. 
“we needed to make plays but we didn’t,” junior linebacker danny spond said. “coaches put us in positions where we had chances to get them down but we didn’t. we didn’t execute the way that we have all year.” 
The 82-yard opening drive marked the first touchdown drive of more than 75 yards by a notre dame opponent this season. The two first-quarter crimson Tide touchdowns — they completed a third on the first play of the second quarter 
— were the first touchdowns al­lowed in the opening stanza by the Irish all season. 
one of the feathers in notre dame’s cap that propelled it to a 12-0 regular season also proved to be its downfall when it mat­tered most: its ability to jump in front of the opposition early. 
“It is something that we are not used to, but not one time did we get our heads down,” spond said. “we kept encouraging each other the whole time and I couldn’t be more proud of my teammates.” 
kelly said he attributes much of the tackling issues and defensive woes to lacy’s play-making ability, but that several factors played into the sluggish output. 
“I think it’s a combination probably of three things,” kelly said. “one, outstanding back; lacy made us miss. I thought his ability to shake us down was outstanding. 
“I have to evaluate whether I did a good enough job as the head coach in getting tackling done for our players.  I think everything is on the table when you see so many missed tackles. 


but again, that will require a lit­tle bit of research and looking at it a little bit more in depth. but I would put most of it on a really outstanding back in lacy and the way he ran. I was very im­pressed with him tonight.” 
The overwhelming vibe in the locker room following the game was of regret for the uncharac­teristic performance. 
“It’s disappointing. you feel bad,” nix said. “you don’t want to go into a big ballgame missing tackles and causing your team to lose. now it’s time to get better.” 
Irish senior linebacker manti Te’o said he was disappointed the team did not represent notre dame the way it could have. 
“ what doesn’t kill you will only make you stronger,” Te’o said. “The best thing about this experience is it creates fire.  It creates fuel for both the guys staying here and the guys leav­ing.  and everybody here, every­body here tonight will be better because of it.” 
contact andrew owens at aowens2@nd.edu 





The obserVer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserVer.com 



SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 

Notre Dame senior linebackers Carlo Calabrese and Manti Te’o attempt to break through the Alabama offensive line during Notre Dame’s loss against the Crimson Tide on Jan. 7. Alabama’s win gave it back-to-back national championships and three in four years. Notre Dame ended the season 12-1 and with a No. 3 place in the final coaches’ poll. 



