ThE INdEPENdENT NEWSPAPER SERVINg NOTRE dAME ANd SAINT MARy’S 




Joe Bock announces candidacy 
Eck Institute faculty member vies for Indiana’s second-district House seat 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Joe Bock, a faculty member in Notre dame’s Eck Institute for global health, is seeking to represent Indiana’s second congressional district (which includes St. Joseph County), putting to use his experience responding to crises around the world. 
Bock, who previously served as the director of global health training at Notre dame’s Eck Institute and director of ex­ternal relations at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, announced his candidacy for the congressio­nal seat Nov. 4. he is seeking the democratic nomination and hopes to replace incumbent Republican Jackie Walorski. 
In his written announce­ment, Bock said he wants to challenge Walorski because he thinks she votes based on par­tisan politics, a growing prob­lem in Washington. 
“In times of crisis, you don’t have time to consider the politics of those you’re try­ing to help or worry about your own agenda,” he said. “I’m frustrated with politi­cians in Washington, includ­ing our Congresswoman [Rep. Walorski], who are refusing to put aside their differences so they can govern effectively. If there is one place in the world right now that needs conflict resolution, it’s Washington, d.C.” 
While serving in the Missouri state legislature from 1986 to 1992, Bock said he found people were more interested in finding pragmatic solutions than in resorting to particular political ideologies. 
see BOCK PAGE 6 

Business teams  Scholar studies  
exhibit Chinese  Generation Y in  
language skills  Hungary  


By CHARLIE DUCEY 
News Writer 
Two Notre dame teams placed in the top three at a language-based business competition held at Brigham young university (Byu) last weekend. 
Seniors Ryan Fish and Eric Brumleve, juniors yixin huang, Keith Wertsching and Kamala Iodice, and sophomore Wei Lin represented Notre dame, while students from three other uni­versities, including Byu and Indiana, made up the four other teams in the case competition. (Editor’s note: Lin is a photogra­pher for The Observer.) 
According to Wertsching, the presentation for which each team was responsible consisted of providing consulting advice to a Chinese technology company looking to expand into the pri­vate cloud market. 
“We got the case a week in advance and had to translate and interpret it,” Wertsching said. “Afterwards, we had to create a presentation about the choice we made.  The choice was between targeting large firms, which pro­duced a higher profit margin, or small firms, which presented more opportunity for growth.” 

Fish said each team gave its presentation multiple times to judge panels made up of real-world Chinese executives. The student competitors and judges spoke only in Mandarin Chinese throughout the presentations. 
“Every team had 15 minutes to present their solution to the problem and then judges asked questions for 10 minutes,” Fish said. “There were three prelimi­nary rounds judged by three to five Chinese business execu­tives. Three teams were selected to advance to the final round 
see ChINESE PAGE 6 

Photo courtesy of Joe Bock 

House candidate Joe Bock, right, speaks with an attendee at a Veterans Day ceremony at Rice Cemetery in Elkhart, Ind., on Monday. 

By JACK ROONEY 
News Writer 

Professor and visiting schol­ar Tamás Karáth gave a lec­ture Tuesday entitled “young and Broker in hungary: Post-Communism and generation y” in which he analyzed the effects of generational transi­tion and communism in his native hungary. 
Karáth is a professor of Medieval English Literature at the Institute of English and American Studies of Pázmány Péter Catholic university in hungary. This semester, he is a visiting scholar at the Nanovic Center for European Studies. 
his lecture addressed the situation facing the youth of hungary based on a recent survey, youth 2012, which gathered demographic infor­mation on hungarians ages 15 to 29. Karáth said the toughest issue facing generation y in hungary is living in a demo­cratic society run by a genera­tion new to democracy. 
“There is a paradox of so­cialization for these young­sters that they are expected to behave democratically,” Karáth said. “They are ex­pected to grow up through the maturity of a democratic society while they did not really receive any inher­ited democratic values from the parent and grandparent generations.” 
Karáth divided his pre­sentation into four parts, focusing on terms and defini­tions, generational patterns in hungary, the youth 2012 study and its implications for generation y around the world, and how generation 
see huNgARy PAGE 3 



English professor earns award 
By CAITLIN SISK 
News Writer 
One Notre dame professor imagined what would happen if henrietta Lacks, Julian Assange and Abduwali Abdukhadir Muse could sit down to talk, and she won an award as a result. 
Associate English professor Joyelle McSweeney created a dialogue between these figures 


in her play “dead youth, or, The Leaks,” and she received the inaugural Leslie Scalapino Award for Innovative Women Playwrights for this work. 
The award was recently cre­ated in honor of the late Leslie Scalapino, an author, poet and playwright who died in 2010. 
“This award was set up in her memory because she died be­fore her final play could be per­formed,” McSweeney said. “So this is a way to honor her and to remember her and to support women writers here inspired by her.” 
Scalapino’s literary in­novations, such as dual or plural characters, inspired McSweeney to incorporate such devices into her own work, she said. her award-winning play includes a plural charac­ter, which allows a director to cast any number of people in that role. 
“It’s very meaningful for me to receive this award because I have been inspired by Leslie Scalapino’s work,” McSweeney said. “In one of her novels, called ‘dahlia’s Iris,’ she sets up a very unusual idea that 
see PLAyWRIghT PAGE 6 






ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hillstrom Controller: Alex hirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What do you think of the snow? 

Kim Kirk 
senior off campus 
“I love it!” 


Joe Paggi 
senior off campus 

“It should go away the day after Christmas.” 

Ryan Gannett 
freshman O’Neill hall 

“Scared of it because I’m from California.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Camila Inarra 
senior off campus 
“It’s very cold...” 

Paulina Rullan 
senior off campus 
“...but it’s very pretty!” 


Erich Jegier 
freshman Sorin College 

“SSNNNOOOOOWWWWW!!!!” 



News Sports Want your event included here? 
Christian Myers Jack hefferon Rebecca O’Neil Samantha Zuba Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Abi hoverman henry hilliard 
Graphics Scene 

Sara Shoemake Allie Tollaksen 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Photo Viewpoint 

John Ning Tabitha Ricketts 
Au Bon Pain’s First Navigating Relational Stress Buster Friday Women’s Basketball Men’s Basketball Birthday Transitions St. Liam Hall Joyce Center Joyce Center Hesburgh Library LaFortune Center 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 


Update 
7 a.m.-1 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-2 p.m. Relax with Tai Chi. Game against The Irish take on 

The article “Basilica houses continent’s 
Free cupcakes. Free Panera lunch. Valparaiso University. Indiana State. 

oldest carillon” in the Nov. 12 issue of The Observer discussed the bells 
Lecture: “Twitter, International Swimming and Diving Film: “Computer Prayer from Around 

in the tower and their history. More 

Buffett, and Darwin” Cooking Class 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Chess” the World: Diwali 
information about the carillon, 
Mendoza College Main Building Rolfs Aquatic Center DeBartolo Performing LaFortune Center 

including the names of all the bells and 
4 p.m.-5 p.m. 5:30 p.m.-8 p.m. The men face Michigan Arts Center 7 p.m.-10:30 p.m. 

other documents related to them, can be found in the university Archives in the Speaker Tim Roemer, Full meal for $5 with State while the 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Celebrate the Hindu hesburgh Library. former Ambassador Notre Dame Chef women’s team takes on Andrew Bujalski’s 2013 festival with prayer, and US Representative. Donald Miller. Valparaiso. movie. dinner, and dance. 




Professors audit predictors of sustainable peace 
issues, the two concepts form Cortright said. “governance is Instead of measuring the ef-formation conflicts. These 

By ABI HOVERMAN 

News Writer a continuum and even rely on ultimately about power, about fectiveness of outcome simply agreements should have pro-each other. who has it and who benefits in terms of negative peace, he visions for the implementation 
It can be difficult to achieve “In order to sustain a nega-from it.” said an interdisciplinary and of democracy, military inte­and maintain piece in the af-tive peace, you have to build a In evaluating governance, nuanced approach is needed. gration and minority protec­termath of war and even more positive peace, and you have to Cortright said his research “We need to think about tions. he also said since the difficult to predict whether include those elements that we demonstrates good govern-what is success or failure,” end of the Cold War, the world such effort will be successful usually link to social justice,” ment institutions are inclusive, Wallensteen said. “And quality order has emphasized peace at a given time and place. In an Cortright said. “Over a period, participatory and accountable. is one way to think of it.” agreements and increased attempt to address the second it is necessary for conditions of “All [qualities] need to be Wallensteen said his forth-united Nations involvement, problem, a panel of professors positive peace to continually 
coming publication, “Quality and this hegemonic environ-offered new ways of analyz-develop to maintain negative 
“The building of Peace,” analyzes five dimen-ment affects peace on smaller ing peace at a panel discus-peace. ... The distinctions be­
sions of society with respect scales. 


sound, legitimate 

sion Tuesday in the hesburgh tween the two types of peace to outcomes of peace: civil “yes, we have this broad per-

institutions 

Center. begin to blur.” 
society, post-war security, spective. This is part of the Caroline hartzell, a po-Cortright said his own two-
and the governance, economic recon-way we have to understand lo­litical science professor from year project researching peace 
implementation of struction and reconciliation cal solutions. This sort of rela­gettysburg College, said the will form the core of his up-
or transitional justice. he said tion will color relationships all 


transparency are 

the criteria of dignity, secu-the way through,” Wallensteen sented offers important infor-and Peace.” he said the over-
research the panelists pre-coming book, “governance 
ways of building rity and predictability were said. “It sets the mark of how mation that will influence the all global decline of violence 
peace. Governance used to compare the effects conflicts will be handled.” content of peace settlements. sparked his interest in the 
is ultimately about of various victories and peace despite the overall decline “These studies seek to move topic. 
agreements. of violence globally, Cortright 


power, about who 

beyond the focus on peace as “It grows, in part, out of Overall, Wallensteen said said there are currently 32 ac-

has it and who 

the absence of war ... and be-the discussion that is so ac-
more democracy, more tive conflicts, six of which are yond the duration of peace af-tive today ... about the long-
benefits from it.” military integration and major wars. ter war. ... This focus on what term trend in human affairs 
power-sharing, and more in-Wallensteen said ongoing 
David Cortright 

constitutes peace moves us towards the global reduction ternational engagement occur peace-studies research offers 
director of policy studies 
in peace agreement cases than vital insight into situations beyond ... the focus by both in armed violence,” Cortright 

Kroc Institute 

scholars and policymakers said. “It’s a trend that merits a 
in examples with a clear victo-of active conflict and into the on the ‘best’ way to end war,” lot of consideration.” ry. Accordingly, in victory situ-means of improving condi­hartzell said. Looking through the lens of present, all enhance each ations, “quality peace” cannot tions in seemingly peaceful 
david Cortright, director governance, Cortright said so-other,” he said. “We need to be established without extra societies. of policy studies at the Kroc cieties with democratic tradi-understand these broad fac-commitment to dignity. “There is an aspiration in Institute, said instead of only tions, higher per capita income tors and understand that the “you can imagine victories most societies to get away from considering negative peace, and equality for women dem-process of building peace is which produce quality peace, violence. It is not a normal hu­or the absence of conflict, onstrate more enhanced peace multi-dimensional.” but it really requires particular man condition,” Wallensteen people should consider more and are less likely to break into Peter Wallensteen, profes-efforts to do it,” he said. said. “People would like to live encompassing elements like war. sor of peace studies at the Kroc Wallensteen said his re-life in quality peace. This is economic opportunity, po-“The building of sound, le-Institute, researched violent search suggests peace agree-something we can use.” litical representation and em-gitimate institutions and the conflicts, which can end in a ments are more likely to powerment of women. he said implementation of transparen-peace agreement or in the vic-generate quality peace than Contact Abi Hoverman at instead of being dichotomous cy are ways of building peace,” tory of one side over the other. victories in civil wars and state ahoverma@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
idea within hungary, to see both 


Hungary 
sides of the transition before and 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
after the change.” generation y defines itself as Karáth said the transition members of the generation enter from communism to democracy college and adulthood. is reflected in the generational 
Karáth said while hungarian gap evident today. youth displayed unique social “The transition has often been characteristics because of their interpreted in terms of genera­post-communist society, they tional relations. All over Europe, still share a common bond with there is a sense of a very criti­the global generation y. cal generation X, generation 
“Indeed the survey confirmed y age group, which are today’s that there are striking differences youngsters,” Karáth said. “We in maturity, activity profiles and can see a very drastic confronta­the autonomy level of this age tional attitude of post-transition group,” Karáth said. “however, youngsters and pre-transition certain findings in areas of me-establishment, and the genera­dia use, technology and commu-tion that is associated with the nication strategies confirmed establishment.” certain characteristics between Karáth said 34 percent of the hungarian generation y and hungarians ages 15 to 29 could the global generation y.” not imagine living anywhere 
Karáth paid special attention but hungary, while 24 percent of to the term, “post-communism” the same age group could envi­and defined it at the outset of the sion themselves leaving for more lecture. he said it was important than five years, even forever. to note the specific meaning he These mobility statistics give was using in his lecture. hungarians reason to be rela­
“Now what we mean by post-tively hopeful about the future, communism varies greatly from Karáth said. country to country,” Karáth said. Karáth also said 29 percent “Present-day democratic prac-of the individuals in hungary’s tices and the tradition of these generation y do not trust de­democratic practices varies sig-mocracy, a number that is far be­nificantly between the countries. low the European union average Also, post-communism might be of 49 percent. Karáth character-different according to the type or ized this figure as a product of nature of the communism that the paradox of socialization. those countries had experienced before the transition. So it is im-Contact Jack Rooney at portant, in order to clarify this jrooney1@nd.edu 


PAId AdVERTISEMENT 






Lecture presents transgender issues 
By SAMANTHA CASTANEDA 
News Writer 
A volunteer at the gLBT Resource Center of Michiana talked about her experience as a transgender person in a lecture Tuesday in dalloway’s Café at Saint Mary’s. 
In the presentation, titled “On the understanding of the Transgender Experience,” speaker Meghan Buell said while transgender individuals have always been around, this designation for people who don’t conform to traditional genders has only arisen in the last few decades. 
“The term ‘transgender’ is an umbrella term that has de­veloped in [the last] 10 to 15 years and encompasses any person that is gender non­conforming,” Buell said. 
Buell said a lot of “closed thinking” surrounded her while she grew up. She said she knew there was some­


“The term ‘transgender’ is an umbrella term that has developed in [the last] 10 to 15 years and encompasses any person that is gender non­conforming.” 
Meghan Buell 
volunteer 
GLBT Resource Center 

thing different about her from a young age, but she had dif­ficulty finding resources to learn about her identity. 
Suicide and rejection are particularly big issues for the transgender community, es­pecially when members of that community face a lack of education and resources, Buell said. 
“With the lack of those re­sources growing up and a good support group, the lack of education and the lack of an adult figure to go asks questions about it, it becomes a very heavy burden to carry around,” she said. 
Buell encouraged audience members to accept the trans­gender community and to be aware the transgender com­munity needs help addressing several issues. 
“Fight for equal rights, be compassionate, ask ques­tions, and have a little bit of empathy for the hurdles and struggles they may have,” she said. 
Buell also discussed her experience with gender reas­signment surgery, her strug­gle to accept that she was transgender and the courage she needs to remain commit­ted to what she sees as her true identity. 
“Being transgender is not an easy way to go through life,” Buell said. “It’s a choice.” 
The College’s psychology department, the Program in gender and Women’s Studies and the Cross Currents Program’s Collegiate Speakers Series co-spon­sored Buell’s lecture. The Lilly Endowment’s Initiative to Promote Opportunities through Educational Collaborations funded the event. 
Contact Samantha Castaneda at scasta01@saintmarys.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

SMC SENATE 




group addresses parking problems 
By KIERA JOHNSEN 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s Senate discussed the College’s up­coming Food Week and issues with parking at its meeting Tuesday. 
Food Services co-chair Katie Stare said director of dining hall services Barry Bowles will hold an informal question­and-answer event in confer­ence rooms A, B and C in the Student Center. 
“Next Wednesday during lunch, from 12 to 1 p.m., Barry is going to be available for questions regarding any food services,” Stare said. “The dining hall, Munch Money, the co-exchange program, cy­ber café, any suggestions you have for food that you want and questions about hours, you can go and ask him.” 
Senior hannah Mudd raised the issue of parking. 
“Especially as a senior, park­ing just seems to get worse and worse, and I don’t know how many countless times I’ve heard people talk and com­plain or want to change some­thing about parking,” she said. 
Mudd said she felt there was a lack of clarity on where park­ing was allowed and there was limited parking close to resi­dence halls. 
“When you are trying to come back and get something done really quick but you have no close amenities to you to al­low for that to happen, because the trolley isn’t fast enough, and if you have your car you are still far enough away … it just doesn’t allow you to be productive,” she said. 
Student body president Kat Sullivan said the College might not realize the preva­lence of parking complaints. 
“They might not know the complaints, outside of people just getting angry and walk­ing, saying ‘Why did I get this ticket?,’” Sullivan said. “If we actually do something in the correct way as an adminis­tration, that’s the best way to move forward. And if they say there is nothing we can do, at least we tried.” 
Sullivan and the Senate appointed senators Chelsea Fordon and Chloe deranek to follow up with Vice President for Student Affairs Karen Johnson about students’ concerns.  


Contact Kiera Johnsen at kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 



ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Bock response to the earthquake come out in the actors’ voic-

Chinese 
Playwright 
and because I know how to do es,” McSweeney said. “It re-
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
that and have done it in a lot 

ally felt like magic to me … to Bock said the same cannot of different places around the 
suddenly see that these voices 

and presented their solution be said for Congress, espe-world, I felt like it was an ap­
there could be a person inside had bodies and could exist in 

a fourth time.” cially in the aftermath of the propriate thing for me to do,” 
another person. And for me, space.” 

Fish said he was satis­recent government shutdown. Bock said. “In a sense, I re-
challenging the boundaries Although McSweeney pub­

fied with the team’s per­“[The government shut-ally wanted to do it because I 
of personhood that way and lished short plays within two 

formance and enjoyed his down] is symptomatic of the wanted to help.” 
coming up with this idea of of her previously published 

experience in last weekend’s dysfunction in Washington, Bock said if he were elect-
permeability where one char-books, “dead youth, or The 

competition. d.C., that needs to be recti-ed to office, the first issue he 
acter can actually be inside 

“Notre dame placed in fied, needs to be fixed, by would address would be job 
another character, that really 

second and third place,” people who are able to be creation. 
“It really felt like 
knocked me out and influ-

Fish said. “It was an problem solvers rather than “I think the first and fore­
enced the way I thought about 

amazing experience that getting involved in partisan most [issue to focus on] is to 

magic to me ... to 
what could happen in a novel 
demonstrated the real-world 


suddenly see that 

theatrics,” Bock said. work to get more jobs for peo­or in a play.” 
application of both our busi­


these voices had 

Much of Bock’s research as ple,” Bock said. “The situation 
Among other words of 

ness and Chinese education. an academic has been cen-we are at right now is that we 

bodies and could 
praise, the award announce-

I’m going to attempt to start tered on the study of violence are at the beginning of recov­
ment said McSweeney’s work 

a similar competition here at prevention, he said. This re-ery from a horrible recession 

exist in space.” 
was “truly contemporary.” 
Notre dame.” 
Joyelle McSweeney 

search has taught him the and, as we do that, there are 
McSweeney said she takes 
Beyond the competi­
professor of English 

importance of early warning a lot of businesses who have 
this to mean more than sim­

tion aspect of the trip, par-and early response efforts. money, who are sitting on the 
ply that the play is innovative 

ticipants heard Michael “A lot of times, problems sidelines waiting to invest, 
or touches on current issues Leaks” marks her first full-

hoer, a successful busi­can be best solved if you re-and they are not going to un­
and events. length play. Writing the play 

nessman in China and spond to them before they be-til they get a sense of stability. 
“I think that what they were was a new and somewhat 

a Byu graduate, deliver a come a major disaster,” Bock Something like a government 
maybe getting at is a sense of less restricted experience, 
keynote speech about the shutdown is the inverse of 
innovation with ideas and lan-McSweeney said. 
value of studying foreign what we need in terms of con­
guage … but I also think that “When I write I’m always languages and cultures, Fish “I feel like the veying that stability to those a really contemporary writer hearing voices, and some-said. 


best place I can business people.” 
is one who is drowning in all times I’m hearing lots of voic-
Wertsching said he was Bock, who self-identifies as 
the other possible time zones, es at once or voices talking to particularly impressed with 


focus my efforts 
a pro-life democrat, said he in the past and the future, each other,” McSweeney said. 
the opportunities to expand 


on right now is 
has been listening to the peo­and can sort of move through “When I’m writing a poem it his language skill in business on the crisis in ple of Northern Indiana for them in their imagination and can be hard for me to convey situations. 

Washington, D.C., the seven years he has been be touched by them all and that on the page the way I’m 
“The trip was an amazing living in the area and they 
gather up information from hearing the voice change or experience to learn and dem­


in trying to make 
agree with him on the issue of all of them,” McSweeney said. talk to itself or become very onstrate a new understand-


our government 
abortion. 
As part of the award, strange, and when I’m writing ing of the Chinese language,” work again for the “I think that [is] the over-world-renowned director a play I can split each of those he said. “The terms, phrases 

people of Northern whelming sentiment of the Fiona Templeton led a staged voices out and create kind of 
and sentence structures were people in Northern Indiana. 
reading of the play, which a dynamic shape, a dramatic a unique part of the Chinese 


Indiana.” 
They come at it from their McSweeney said was an in-shape, that is very evident to language that is not typically 
Joe Bock 
faith and a substantial 

studied in a classroom.” faculty member amount of them are pro-life, vigorating experience. the audience.” 
“It was extremely exciting 
Eck Institute for Global Health 
but for me it is an issue of mo-and even a little terrifying to Contact Caitlin Sisk at 



Contact Charlie Ducey at 
rality,” Bock said. “I do under-see my work come to life and csisk1@nd.edu 


cducey@nd.edu 
stand where people who are 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

said. “I think that is true with pro-choice are coming from, governing as well. When there but I feel that for me there are are major warning signs of a certain things I can’t do as a problem and you can offer a legislator, and one of those is solution in a timely way, then compromise my morality.” you can be much more cost-Bock, who is involved effective in going about deal-with South Bend Mayor Pete ing with certain problems.” Buttigieg’s anti-violence task 
Bock has eight years of work force and is a member of the experience with Catholic safety and security commit-Relief Services in Baltimore, tee of the South Bend School Islamabad, Pakistan and Corporation, said he has re-Jerusalem. he said he has ceived overwhelming support been involved with conflict from community members. resolution for some time and “They have been very en-right now there is a need thusiastic,” Bock said. “It is for conflict resolution in amazing the number of people Washington. who come up to me and say, 
“The vast majority of my ‘Thank you. We are glad we career has been focused on have an incredible candidate service — as a legislator, as to run against [Walorski].’” a humanitarian worker and Bock said the Notre dame a trainer of people who are community has also added a going to work in some of the great deal of enthusiasm to toughest places in the world the race. and with my background in “I need to be clear that I am crisis response,” Bock said. “I running as a private individu­feel like the best place I can al and not as a representative focus my efforts on right now of Notre dame, and anything is on the crisis in Washington, that anybody at Notre dame d.C., in trying to make our does to participate in the government work again campaign is as private indi­for the people of Northern viduals,” Bock said. “There Indiana.” is a great deal of enthusiasm 
This is not the first time among people at Notre dame Bock has taken a leave of ab-— my co-workers, students, sence from the university. In etc. We will channel their 2010, Bock left to work for the support in ways that are most American Refugee Committee effective in winning. We plan in haiti. to win.” 
“They had a need for some­one to go down and help them Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at get their program set up in krabac01@saintmarys.edu 






Trade Center labeled nation’s tallest skyscraper 
feet tall, the same height as the — in 1974. tallest skyscraper in the world. whether to count slender, deco-

Associated Press 
original World Trade Center. But in the end, there was una-Libeskind’s drawings were rative spires in the total height 

NEW yORK — They set out to That would make it smaller nimity on the committee that always meant to be conceptu-measurement. build the tallest skyscraper in than not only the Willis, but also One World Trade Center’s reach al, though, and the real-world Bella Engstrom, a tourist from the world — a giant that would a 1,397-foot apartment building for 1,776 feet — a number that designs produced by architect Sweden visiting the World Trade rise a symbolic 1,776 feet from being built a short subway ride echoes the founding year of the david Childs and the tower’s Center site, said she thought any the ashes of ground zero. away near Central Park. united States — was an artistic owner, the Port Authority of measurement of the building 
Those aspirations of global Speaking at his office in architectural expression. New york and New Jersey, re-should stop at the highest point supremacy fell by the wayside New york, council chairman “This was a quest to put some-duced that glass spire to a more a person can stand in the tower. long ago, but New york won a Timothy Johnson, an archi-thing meaningful and symbolic conventional cable-stayed mast, “I think it’s as high as you can consolation prize Tuesday when tect at the global design firm on that site because of the hor-which would support broadcast go. you stop there,” she said. an international architectural NBBJ, said the decision by the rible history of what happened equipment and a rotating bea-In a joint statement, the Port panel said it would recognize 25-member height commit-on that site,” said Antony Wood, con, visible for 50 miles. Authority, its marketing part-One World Trade Center as the tee had more “tense moments” the council’s executive director. That change, along with an-ner, the durst Organization, tallest skyscraper in the united than usual, given the skyscrap-Tourists photographing the other that removed a layer of and Childs’ architectural firm, States. er’s importance as a patriotic skyscraper Tuesday mostly decorative cladding, had cre-Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, 
The Council on Tall Buildings symbol. agreed that when it comes to ated some doubt about how the said the building’s creators had and urban habitat, considered “I was here on 9/11. I saw the height measurements, this spire council might rule. “long celebrated the height of a world authority on supersized buildings come down,” he said. should count. If they were to stand side by 1,776 feet as an unwavering skyscrapers, announced its de-Over the past few months, “For any other building, no. side, the Willis Tower would principal” of its design. cision at simultaneous news the council had hinted that it But for this one, yes,” said Cary probably appear to be the larger “This iconic building repre­conferences in New york and might be open to changing its Bass, of Lake Mary, Fla., as he building to most bystanders. In sents the resilience of America Chicago, home to the 1,451-foot standards for measuring ultra-waited to enter the National fact, someone standing in the and today’s decision recognizes Willis Tower, which is being de-tall buildings, given a trend Sept. 11 Memorial at the new Willis Tower’s observation deck One World Trade Center’s right-throned as the nation’s tallest toward developers adding “van-skyscraper’s feet. “Those people would have to look down to see ful place in history,” they said. building. ity height” to towers with huge, deserve it,” he said, referring to One World Trade Center’s roof. The new World Trade Center 
Measuring the height of a decorative spires. the attack victims. This marks the second time tower remains under construc­building would seem to be a But the council also has a his-When architect daniel that the Willis Tower has lost tion and is expected to open simple thing, but in the case tory of disallowing antennas in Libeskind won a public design a “tallest” title in a disputed next year. of the new World Trade Center height calculations. The Empire competition for the World Trade decision. When it does, it will be the tower it is complicated by the State Building’s landmark 204-Center master plan in 2003, his Back in 1996, the Council world’s third-largest skyscrap­408-foot-tall needle atop the foot needle isn’t counted in its original vision was for a twist-on Tall Buildings and urban er, behind the 2,717-foot Burj skyscraper’s roof. height measurement. Neither ing, angular spire filled with habitat sparked controversy Khalifa in dubai and the 1,972­
The council’s verdict rested are the two TV antennas atop hanging gardens. when it declared the Petronas foot Makkah Royal Clock Tower on a conclusion that the needle the Willis Tower, which had height was part of the ap-Twin Towers in Malaysia taller hotel in Mecca, Saudi Arabia. should be counted as part of the been the country’s tallest build-peal. At the time, his design of than the Willis. That decision, Even that distinction may not building’s total height. Without ing since it was completed — 1,776 feet would have made the like the one involving One World last: Six even taller towers are it, the tower would be just 1,368 and named the Sears Tower so-called “Freedom Tower” the Trade Center, also rested on under construction in Asia. 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2012 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 



The reality of political qualities 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Lol: An open letter 
Samantha Coughlin 
graphics Editor 

“One day I’m gonna write an open letter to white girls and I promise I’ll lose every white girl friend I’ve ever made...and I’ll just have to deal lol” 
Posts like this are pretty regular on my news feed from some former classmates from high school. I went to a private school in the suburbs of New york City that pushed diversity. Still, the racial divide was regret­tably visible to everyone, with the majority of minority students only interacting with themselves. unless you were involved in the choir or theatre, chances were you never really befriended any of the “kids in the hallway.” 
White privilege is a tricky thing to talk about, because everyone knows about its existence and very real impact on our lives. My life as a white female was shaped by my relationship to society, and I have to admit America’s social and cultural standards ad­vantage me in nearly every category conceiv­able. Media over represents my face, beauty products are tailored to my skin, I am never asked to speak on behalf of my racial group and I feel welcomed in public life. Et cetera. Et cetera. 
They write books about these natural inequalities, and I was born to what main­stream culture perceives as the “winning team.” I have worked to educate myself about the invisible, institutionalized systems that govern American society. And, trust me, I understand where the hostility and anger that underlies my former classmates’ Facebook posts is rooted. I understand, but I will never know. 
I live in a country tailored to people of my skin color. It’s a simple as that. 
I often feel the desire to comment on the Facebook threads, possibly share some of the articles I’ve gathered from my sociology classes or ask a question. But I don’t think I ever will. I’m too scared to talk about race in a non-academic context. I’m afraid of being misinterpreted and vilified. 
It’s hard to talk about race, especially when I know I am privileged and will never be able to know what it’s like facing the world other­wise. My lack of communication makes me, in part, responsible for helping to maintain a polarizing environment between myself and non-whites. I am saddened by my cowardice, but I only represent one side of the conversa­tion. It is hard to find courage to communi­cate when my conversation partner assumes I’ll never care enough to try to understand 
—when my opinions have already been mis­construed and blindly interpreted — simply because of the color of my skin. how can any progress come from this? Change is certainly not rooted in silence. 
I’m sad that for many of my classmates — like the author of the original quote — the prospect of actually discussing the subject openly and honestly possibly entails destroy­ing relationships. Because that just reminds me how much more truly needs to be said. 

Adam Newman 
Scientia Potentia Est 
Americans do not tend to hold their politicians in very high esteem. 
In an October poll by CBS, members of Congress had only a nine percent approval rating. In a January poll, Americans had more favorable opinions of root canals, NFL replacement referees, lice, cockroaches and traffic jams than Congress. Thankfully, Americans have a more favorable approval of Congress than gonorrhea, North Korea and the Kardashians. 
The perennial joke is approval numbers are surprisingly high since there is no way members of Congress have that many friends and family to approve of them. In all seriousness, while the gridlock certainly helps explain falling popularity, the moral failing of our political leaders is a cause for un­popularity as well. 
The most embarrassing story may be that of Anthony Weiner, who famously in 2010 tweeted a picture of his groin to his entire Twitter following, rather then the woman he intended. yes, a man with the last name of “Weiner” sent out a picture of his “wiener” to his en­tire Twitter following. After initial denying it, Weiner admitted to his personal misgiving and resigned from Congress. Even sadder at the time, he was married for less than a year and his wife was pregnant with their first child. 
After resigning from Congress, one would think Anthony Weiner would focus only on raising his son and mending relations with his wife (who did not leave him). Instead, he decided to run for mayor of New york City less than three years later. Old habits die hard, as it was re­vealed Weiner had sent pictures to women long after he stepped down from Congress under the pseud­onym “Carlos danger”. The story of Anthony Weiner is certainly an outlier when it comes to political scandals, whether sexual, financial or legal. But one thing strikes true 
— it seems many politicians engage in scandals that undermine the public trust. 
One must understand the quali­ties of those who enter public life. First, one must become extremely confident he or she can enter a campaign and win even with the intense scrutiny. Also, with any candid moment having the ability to be captured by a smart phone, politicians must be aware of his or her surroundings 24/7. 
In addition, one must fundraise an enormous amount, with most members of Congress spending 40 percent, yes, 40 percent of his or her time fundraising for the next elec­tion. This combination creates a dirtiness that disgusts most people. And the only people who are left are those who have all the qualities we detest. Most Americans hope for politicians similar to the ancient Cincinnatus, the general who fa­mously worked on a farm during his retirement until an invasion caused him to be called to serve Rome as dictator. he used his power to de­feat the enemy tribes, resigned his position and returned to his farm. 
A more interesting trend will take place in the future, as more people who came of age during the age of Facebook begin to run for politi­cal office. The conversation over what is and is not acceptable on the internet will change dramatically. The Onion, the satirical newspaper, had a very relevant headline in a recent paper — “Bad news: Thanks to Facebook, every potential 2040 president already unelectable. ” 
In the movie “Perks of Being a Wallflower,” there is a great line that goes: “We accept the love we think we deserve.” This can easily be transferred over to the context of public life, as “we accept the politicians we think we deserve.” America deserves better, and if we would realize it we could have more heroes and less Weiners. 
Adam Newman is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Contact Samantha Coughlin  at scoughl2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2012 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 




Listening in a garden 

Jon Schommer 
Viewpoint Columnist 

It was an oppressively hot day when I first set foot in the Kalighat Nirmal hriday home for the dying and destitute. But, who am I kid­ding? That was every day in Kolkata, India during my International Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP) with the Missionaries of Charity (MC). The summer was full of lessons, but few were as impact­ful as the one I learned that day. 
Okay, picture Chaco-footed Jon, water bottle in hand, walking up to the gatekeeper of the home. I promptly handed him my pass and thanked him as he pointed the way to the men’s side of Kalighat. I was really excited to help some poor people. 
Well, that wasn’t quite the atti­tude I had. The past two summers I had participated in SSLPs in the 
u.S. I built relationships with peo­ple on the margins of society and found I am served, often in more significant ways, than the ones I serve. I knew sometimes the things required in service were frustrat­ing, but patience in those hard times can yield life-giving fruit. So that day, I walked up to the sister in charge with a heart eager to use my gifts to help where I could, be present to those around me and try to listen and love. 
But let’s be honest here: love is hard. helping someone poop, feed­ing someone who doesn’t want to eat or trying to comfort someone in pain while you feel just fine is hard. Luckily, the sister’s first task for me was easy. 
At least, I thought it would be easy and quite enjoyable to walk a man in a wheelchair around the gar­den. It’s easy to love someone in a garden. 
The sister showed me to the man. he was lying on a cot. his limbs were long and hairy and though thin, his frame was solid. I think if he were to stand next to some of our basketball players, he would not look short. Another volunteer helped me lift him into the wheel­chair. It was too small for him but we still managed to sit him down, putting his bare feet on the platforms. 
There were many language bar­riers in Kolkata. Obviously there was the gap between English and Bengali, but I also found I used my brain and moved my body in differ­ent ways from my friends in the MC homes. My big friend in the wheel­chair didn’t speak English. Actually, I don’t think he could speak Bengali either. All I heard were indecipher­able moans like my “I don’t want to wake up in the morning” groan. Although I knew we wouldn’t have a philosophical debate, I thought it would be nice to talk as we strolled. 
We started walking and I com­mented on the bright flowers and vegetables beside us. But shortly into our journey, my big friend kept making a loud and unsettling moan. At first I thought was trying to an­swer me, but when he didn’t stop I realized something was wrong. I halted the wheelchair and walked around him. One of his feet was off the platform and sliding across the smooth concrete. Stupid Jon. how can I expect to help anyone when I can’t even see I’m dragging feet? I repositioned his foot, apologized with a shoulder rub, and continued. 
I tried to point out more interest­ing foliage but was once again inter­rupted by a deep moan. I glanced at my friend’s feet and they seemed fine so I kept strolling but he kept moaning and then I saw one of his arms resting on top of the wheel. Really stupid Jon. Again I apologeti­cally readjusted his limbs so there was no way they would encounter unwanted friction. 
A few steps more and my friend again gives a moan louder than the others. I stop and check but every­thing seems to be fine. I continue to walk but he continues to moan all the more. At this point, I am done. I really wanted to help, but I couldn’t even go for a walk in the garden. Someone take my spot, I’ll go back to writing papers and doing prob­lem sets. 
At this moment of frustration a sister walked by and I awkwardly asked her to help me find out what was wrong with my friend. She looked at him and said, “he wants to sit up.” I was floored. Of course a man who spends most of his day in a cot would want to sit tall with dig­nity for his short journey through the garden. I would. We concluded the walk silently enjoying the greenery. 
That day I realized the impor­tance of listening. Even when we think we have the best inten­tions and are doing all we can, we still need to listen. There are still friends moaning in our gardens. It’s not easy to love someone in a gar­den. In India and Notre dame there are people groaning for dignity unheard. We all want to be shown dignity. 
Are we really hearing the moan? 
Jon Schommer is in his fifth year studying civil engineering and the Program of Liberal Studies. He can be contacted at jschomme@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Law is never having to say you’re sorry 
Fr. Kevin Nadolski 
Faith Matters 

Once in a while, everyone makes a mistake at work. It is inevitable. Common courtesy, good manners and professional behavior beckon the expected and reasonable re­sponse of a simple apology. For some, however, it just isn’t that easy.  
Pennsylvania now has a law, passed in October, permitting doc­tors to say they are sorry to patients when the physicians err at work. Previously, they could not do so out of danger of a lawsuit. Thirty-six other states have similar laws. 
“As physicians, it is part of our job — part of our moral and ethical responsibility — to respond to pa­tients and families when there are less than favorable outcomes,” dr. 
C. Richard Schott, president of the Pennsylvania Medical Society, said in a statement. “Medicine is not an exact science, and outcomes may be unpredictable. Benevolent gestures are always appropriate, and physi­cians should not have to fear giving them.” 
Very simply, it is human to apolo­gize. Presidents and popes have done it. It can save marriages and reconcile churches. Parents do it, hoping their children learn well about taking responsibility for mis­takes. giving an apology and having it accepted aids healing, the kind that touches the soul and frees us from a long-standing suffering that can rob our joy and embitter us. 
discussing our overly-litigious society is hackneyed, yet the values that have created it still need to be parsed and purified. dr. Schott’s quote points to the human experi­ence at the center of all relation­ships, including transactional ones in commerce, medicine or govern­ment, for example. Relationships at work or in the marketplace re­quire an abiding respect for human dignity. The gospel that fuels our Catholic social teaching celebrates this.  
While careful attention needs to be given to an apology, accepting it calls forth equal energy. how clear are we when we accept their apol­ogy? When people say they are sorry to us, the response is commonly lukewarm or mildly dismissive: “That’s okay,” “no problem,” or a sound that indicates something like a yes. 
The simple words “I accept your apology,” “I appreciate that,” or “thanks, but I need a little more time to consider what you’re say­ing” communicate something much deeper. We recognize the effort and offer at peacemaking, and we, in turn, desire reconciliation and healing, grace that comes at the cost of the human work of forgive­ness and understanding — not the cost of litigation, lawmaking and trials of reputation. 
It is true that it is hard, human work to forgive. Countless spiritual authors and retreat leaders have addressed this ever-difficult task. Is the first step to discuss the hurt we have felt from another, to make ourselves vulnerable and to let someone know it would be helpful to receive an apology? 
The word “apology” comes from the greek word meaning “away.” In this vein, an apology is help­ful to send hurt away from the in­jured heart and the conscience of the one who committed the harm. Ironically, an injury can be sent away only when a person receives an apology and holds on to the sor­row to displace the harm. 
Frequently, we wait for those who hurt us to apologize. While this is understandable, perhaps we are abdicating the power to another in a passive manner. Our peace and the balance of our hearts are too important to be given away. Being proactive in the wake of an injury is a fine gesture of self-respect. It could even be called a benevolent gesture, one that, once again, needs no law — just a heart that seeks to love Jesus. 
Fr. Kevin Nadolski, a priest with the Oblates of St. Francis de Sales, works for his community as director of development and communications. He has served the church as a Catholic high school teacher, campus minister and principal, as well as vocation and formation director for the Oblates. He lives with his community in Wilmington, Del., and can be reached at knadolski@oblates.org 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 


By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Managing Editor 

It’s opening night for “Cabaret” at Notre dame. 
Winner of the 1967 Tony Award for Best Musical, “Cabaret” will be the first full-fledged musical produced by the department of Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) in 20 years. This will also be the first musical with a pro­fessional director, Nathan halvorson. 
The characters of “Cabaret” will sing and dance, but the content of this musical set in a 1930s Berlin night­club is anything but light. described as a dark and seedy show, “Cabaret” is bound to stun, if not shock, the stu­dent body. 
halvorson said that musicals are typically viewed as “happy, shiny things” that ring a little false compared to the harsh reality of the world. 
“It’s a dramatic comedy that uses music and dance to enhance its story. I approach it as if we are approached Chekhov or Ipsen,” he said. “It’s really challenging ma­terial. Some of the things that the play explores can be threatening to people, but I think the play and we have striven to do it with class and respect.” 
The two touchstone lines in the play for halvorson are: “Why can’t the world live and let live?” and “It was the end of the world, and we were fast asleep.” 
“To me the play is about waking up and living a con­scious life,” he said. “It’s about an eyes wide open life, taking in as much as you can of what’s happening around you and how do you handle it? how do you deal with it?” 
halvorson said a lot of the students haven’t previously had a chance to do a musical at such a professional level. 
“I think I scared them a little bit,” he said. “I treated 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 

Film director, screenwriter, actor and editor (and 36-year-old) Andrew Bujalski is known in the Indie film community as the “godfather of Mumblecore,” a genre of film as quirky and unique as one might imagine from the label applied to it. The Boston native’s latest offering, this year’s “Computer Chess,” is an odd yet subtly funny period film that delves into the world of computer pro­gramming and chess in the 1980s. 
The film, which won the Alfred P. Sloan Prize (cel­ebrating films that focus on science or technology) at the 2013 Sundance Film Festival, is shot almost entirely in black and white, roughly edited, uncomfortably acted and confusingly plotted. It inspires comparisons to bad 1980s commercials and soap operas, and all of that might sound like a bad description, but it instead provides the perfect visual style to illustrate the eccentric world of computer chess programmers. 
The story takes place over a weekend-long tournament 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 
them like emerging professionals, treating them how we treat people in regional theaters and tours. I was trying to take the stuff that they’re good at and expand their minds and push them.“The students are working really, really hard, and their hard work is paying off. … It’s crazy to me how focused and committed everyone is.” 
Senior Marisa Vos plays Lulu, a lesbian cabaret danc­er who falls in love with Rosie, another dancer at the nightclub. 
“Working with Nathan has been fabulous,” Vos said. “he has so much to give, and he’s been a really great mentor in the whole process. I’ve done a lot of student theater, this is the first professional director I’ve worked with since coming to college.” 
Vos said actors have to lose their personal biases when they climb onto the stage. 
“In this case I have to lose my heterosexuality bias,” she said. “It was a matter of looking at my lover in the show as a human being rather than a gender.” 
Vos said that because an outside director led the show, the musical was bound to be a little less “censored.” 
“It’s supposed to be a little more risqué, because that’s what makes it work,” she said. “The whole show is about finding truth and there are the Nazis and there are the people who work at the nightclub. … A censored version of ‘Cabaret’ wouldn’t do it justice.” 
“There are some moments that might moderately scandalize some of the student body,” Vos said. “At the same time, I feel like the student body is more progres­sive than the administration is. We’re not pushing an en­velope farther than it should be pushed.” 
Senior Brian Scully, who plays herr Schultz, the fruit shop owner, said the show is about disillusionment. 
between different programmers, some from universities, some from the private sector and some operating inde­pendently, as they use their chess programs to compete against each other. There is some sense of documentary to the plot, and many of the characters speak and act in what in any other film might be called “bad acting” (note above I said “uncomfortable,” not “bad”). But in this film, it gives insight and depth to these men (and one woman) who spend their whole lives writing code for computers to play chess. 
The plot is convoluted, with different characters weaving different conspiracy theories about each other throughout, but none of the conspiracies are ever really resolved. The film’s events take place while the Cold War would still have been in full effect, so the fact that a group of computer geniuses are gathered in one place to test out their artificial intelligence programs makes for a lot of in­teresting theories, no matter how confusing and unlikely. 
As mentioned before, the film rests firmly in the “Mumblecore” genre, a genre that director Bujalski helped invent and popularize. Mumblecore films place 
“All the principal characters really want the world to be perfect,” Scully said. “They want to be able to fall in love with each other and live great lives. But circumstances won’t allow it. Are you willing to wake up to what’s going on around you? Or do you want to stay in a fantasy and make life easier rather than real.” 
Scully set the cast has rehearsed for over two months for this production. The muscle behind the coordina­tion for all the rehearsals and collaboration with the de­partment and dPAC, however, is senior stage manager Melissa Flynn. 
Flynn said on day one of rehearsals, halvorson threw his arm around her shoulder and said, “We are going to be best friends.” 
Flynn said since this is her first time stage-managing a show with FTT, she greatly appreciates the resources provided by the department. She said she signed on last November, but they didn’t decided on the director or the title until last spring. 
Performing a full musical is a large undertaking, and a huge time commitment for Flynn because the cast has 18 members, requiring a lot more coordination between the directors, orchestra and all the acting, singing and dancing rehearsals. 
Flynn said for the actors, halvorson emphasized mak­ing strong decisions while on stage. 
“I think the cast has really come together, they’re re­ally diving in and owning their decisions,” she said. 
The show will run through Sunday night at the deBartolo Performing Arts Center. Student tickets are $10 and regular tickets are $20. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
a heavy focus on naturalism ¾ dialogue and character performances are especially designed to be as natural and realistic as possible. Thus, in a film about computer programmers with a chess obsession, the characters are socially awkward, hard to relate to and generally not the most beautiful people in the world. 
For fans of Indie film, or film that’s just a little out there, “Computer Chess” is a perfect opportunity to get a first hand look at a new and developing genre, while also seeing a quirky, eccentric movie about quirky, eccentric people. 
The film, which was officially released in theaters on July 17, is only available for screening in a handful of places in North America  ¾  one being the deBartolo Performing Arts Center (dPAC) this weekend. 
“Computer Chess,” which runs for 92 minutes and is unrated, will be shown at Browning Cinema at 6:30 and 
9:30 p.m. Saturday. Student tickets are $4 and can be pur­chased at the dPAC box office or online at performingarts. nd.edu. 

Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 


ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 



Maddie Daly 
Scene Writer 

It is simply the worst when something has been built up for years, loved dearly, had enough anticipation to invoke nervous fits and screams of excitement — and then suddenly comes crashing down to the ground, destroying all previous expectations and positive emo­tions. Thank you, “how I Met your Mother,” for ruining everything you used to be. you are the worst thing ever. 
As a loyal fan, I have seen every episode and loved every season, up until Season Nine.  It has always been a show I look forward to watching every Monday night; yet this season I have struggled to stay caught up based on a lack of interest. 
The fact that the entire show is built around the rev­elation of who Ted will marry placed so much pressure on the final season that it arguably could never live up to all the anticipation. Every season finale revealed tiny hints about the mysterious mother, and the Season Eight finale finally showed her face after promises of introducing the much-awaited character. Season Nine, therefore, was meant to finish off the story of how they 
By DANIEL BARABASI 
Scene Writer 

For all the budding hipsters reading this, I’ve found your new high. The electronica band Psapp, pronounced something like p-sap, works as a great “hipsterdom for dummies.” It’s an obscure experimental duo who pio­neered the beauty of the genre “toytronica” and that is relevant only because they wrote the “grey’s Anatomy” theme. 
Plus, their latest album, “What Makes us glow” is to­tally overshadowed by the release of “Artpop,” so you totally have that going for you as well. Even if you have already taken a few crash courses in the hipster ideolo­gies, Psapp’s got your back covered with its masterful commentary, giving all those toy saxophone riffs all the more meaning. 
The album allows for quite a bearable listening experi­ence if used as ambient noise. Really, if you are planning to have a dinner party any time soon just take this album, throw it on repeat, then when a guest asks what this au­ditory orgasm that they are experiencing is, just raise a your nose a little and with the straightest face tell them, “Oh, it’s this wondrous duo, galia durant and Carim Clasmann, I’ve had a chance to experience. They make all their music using toys, toy instruments and children. It’s quite charming really.” Then watch the guest never talk to you again. Ever. Mission accomplished. 
despite my inability to understand how any got married. So far, all it has shown is future encounters between the two surrounded by ridiculous, unrealistic antics between the other characters. 
First of all, the entire season is supposedly happen­ing over the span of one weekend, the weekend of Robin and Barney’s wedding. All the crew is there, besides Marshall, who is having some traveling difficulties, but the fact that they are not having drinks at McLaren’s or hanging out at Marshall and Lily’s apartment just throws something off. Also, the constant jokes the ho­tel employee makes concerning Ted’s single status are cliché and exaggerated, not to mention overused. And speaking of overused, if I hear Lily call for Linus one more time after finishing or dropping a drink, I’m going to throw my own glass on the floor. The lines are repeti­tive and boring, unlike anything ever written for the beginning seasons. 
“how I Met your Mother” has produced so many original jokes known by viewers and non-viewers alike that the lack thereof in Season Nine is deeply upsetting. Lines are cheesy and unoriginal, causing me to cringe rather than laugh. Also, instead of being subtly roman­tic and full of symbolism (i.e., anything yellow, namely the umbrella), the encounters with future Mrs. Mosby 
music made with things we give to toddlers to put in their mouths, listening to Psapp’s mixing gets pretty interest­ing. “The Cruel, the Kind and the Bad” uses what sounds like slide whistles and a toy piano to create a waltz-like feel. Then, in “Everything Belongs to the Sun,” you may hear some great cat meows going on, but the commen­tary tells us that it’s actually galia’s daughter cooing in the recording room during production. 
The one song that I had a bit of trouble with was “Wet Salts,” where they left a bit of harsh high notes at the end. Overall the piece is not bad and again is cool to listen to, but maybe avoid it on Saturday mornings after a long night of drinking apple juice. 
Overall, the album itself is alright, and only stands out due to how it’s created. The commentary really gets me though, because it shows how differently galia and Carim approach the music they are making. Reenacting the sound devices of the actual album, the whole com­mentary is recorded with what sounds like a dishwasher being loaded in the background. 
When galia does commentary, she talks about the inspiration of the music, for example “Wet Salts” comes from the sound of the gravel in her old country home, where they recorded the songs, and what interesting con­traptions they used as instruments. 
Then you get to Carim’s interpretations and find that in “BAM,” the sound they got from smashing a duck actually represents the darkness and despair you feel when your father suddenly passes away from a fast-acting cancer. 
are tacky, predictable and overly romantic and mushy. I never expected Ted’s proposal to be on a lighthouse that was just introduced in Season Nine; it should have been somewhere that actually stemmed from the other eight seasons. 
I would never be writing this article about “how I Met your Mother” if the series had ended with Season Eight, or even Season Seven. The show has dragged on for eight years and easily could have ended much earlier. As much as I appreciate a show that is able to last so long with a consistent cast, I think there is a point when origi­nality just comes to a halt. There is only so much funny material a writer can come up with before they start to take ideas from the vault of clichés. 
Arguably even more disappointing than the bad jokes and poorly written script is the choice of actress for the mother. Cristin Milioti is too little, perfect and squeaky; I pictured someone much less feminine and more Robin-like. That’s just one more reason why season nine of “how I Met your Mother” is the worst thing ever. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
My favorite line from him is,  “…but fools have a far better time in the end.” his monotone voice makes him sound like a regretful adult who studied his whole life, missing out on the crazy adventures of his classmates only to re­alize he hates being a doctor. 
Really, if you got this far and you are not a hipster, just write down the name of this album into your personal notebook or notes app or whatever. Then, when you feel like you need inspiration to give a hundredth try at that pesky orgo assignment, pull up “What Makes us glow” and think about how if these British crazies can make an album out of things they found in Babies‘R’us. you can probably drudge through whatever chemistry can throw at you. 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 


“What Makes Us Glow” 

Psapp 
Label: The state51 Conspiracy 
Tracks: “The Cruel, the Kind and the Bad,” “Everything Belongs to the Sun” 
If you like: Frou Frou or the sound of a musically inclined toddler smashing Hot Wheels together 



SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Sports extend reach to midweek 

Jack Hefferon 
Sports Writer 
Well, it’s Wednesday. hump day. Together with Tuesday, it forms an all-to-often bland mass of doldrums in the middle of the week, espe­cially when winter decides to descend upon South Bend. Weekends past and future, with their freedom, gather­ings and sports, seem far too far away. 
At least, that’s the way it used to be. 
Now, don’t be rash; it’s not as if the school week is get­ting cut to four days (not even national holidays can do that around here). But in the world of sports, the dog days of the week are finally getting the attention they deserve. 
Back in our parent’s day, the NFL played on Sundays, period. The week for football fans was just a long lead-up to that day, with the league’s action packed into one day. Monday Night Football’s in­troduction in 1970 changed the game, but it’s the League’s recent adoption of Thursday Night games that have truly spread the love, halving the wait between NFL doses from six days to three. These Thursday Night games have brought a bit of hope to the early week, but they’re just the beginning. 
College football has expanded the act, breaking through the Tuesday-Wednesday barrier and granting football to every night of the week. Tuesday’s are a night for #MACtion, as the Mid-American Conference has pounced on the chance for national expo­sure and shifted games to the midweek. 
The MAC has another pair of games on tap for to­night, including one with BCS implications as No. 15 Northern Illinois (9-0, 5-0 MAC) hosts Ball State (9­1, 6-0 MAC). Throw in last Thursday’s two top-10 match-ups (No. 3 Oregon vs. No. 5 Stanford, No. 6 Baylor vs. No. 10 Oklahoma), and the college game has us covered from Monday Night Football to College gameday on Saturdays. 
But to focus just on foot­ball is to skip the rest of the buffet. ESPN, in the name of all things over-the-top, put together a 29-hour Tip­off Marathon to kick off the college hoops season, which concluded last night. The marathon opened with a women’s doubleheader featuring four of the top 12 teams in the country, and was capped by an unreal pairing of men’s games at the united Center — No. 1 Kentucky vs. No. 2 Michigan State, then No. 4 duke vs. No. 5 Kansas. 
In the middle was a steady drip of games at all hours of the night and morning, and if I had any sense at all I would’ve been watching hartford at Florida gulf Coast 
— a 7 a.m. tip in Southern Florida — while cramming for midterms yesterday morning. 
(But seriously, a 7 a.m. tip before classes on a Tuesday? That’s just about the most monotony-smashing idea ever brought to a college campus. If any college sport is ever hurting for atten­dance, you now have an in­stant hype machine. Just add free bagels.) 
And in the world of week­day sporting events, there’s nothing better than the Olympics, which now just sit a few months away. Nothing livens up a Monday afternoon like some curling or speed-skating trials, and the 9-hour time difference between Sochi and South Bend should guarantee plenty of live events broadcast at all kinds of odd hours. 
Throw in the return of NhL, NBA, and college bas­ketball games to occupy weeknights, NBC Sports’ pumped-up coverage of the EPL to supplement week­end mornings — and of course the omnipresent SportsCenter to tie it all to­gether — and there truly is no hour of the week left un­touched by live coverage of sports on TV. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffro@nd.edu The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


COLLEGE BASKETBALL | VCu 59, VIRgINIA 56 
VCu squeaks past in-state rival Virginia 
Associated Press 
Treveon graham scored 22 points, including a tie-break­ing 3-pointer with 1.1 seconds to play, and No. 14 VCu beat No. 25 Virginia 59-56 on Tuesday night in front a sellout crowd at John Paul Jones Arena. 
The Rams (2-0) trailed for al­most all of the final 10 minutes until graham’s steal and base­line jumper gave them a 56-55 lead with 1:18 left. 
Malcolm Brogdon then hit just the second of two free throws with 9.7 seconds left for the Cavaliers (1-1), tying the game before the Rams called time out and set up the final play. 
Rob Brandenburg brought the ball up, went around a screen and fired a pass back to graham, who shot from the left side of the arc and swished it through for just the sixth 3-pointer of the game. 
Joe harris led Virginia with 18 points, but he missed two free throws with 3:58 to play and Virginia trying to extend a 53-49 lead. The Cavaliers scored just three points in the last 4:57. 
With harris leading the way, the Cavaliers used an 11-2 run to take command, and threat­ened to put the game away. But graham scored twice from in close, and followed a jumper by Brogdon with a free throw. 
The Rams still trailed 55-49 until Juvonte Reddic’s putback stuff with 2:44 to play sparked a 7-0 run. Jordan Burgess made a 3-pointer from the right cor­ner, and graham then stole a wraparound pass from Justin Anderson and drove for a base­line 6-footer with 1:18 remain­ing, giving the Rams the 56-55 lead. 
The Rams won despite miss­ing 9 of 15 free throws and shooting 41 percent (24 of 58) from the field. 
Virginia shot just 57.6 per­cent at the line (19 of 33) and 39 percent from the field (18 of 46). 
The meeting was the first be­tween the schools since 1998, and was highly anticipated. It drew the first sellout to the 14,593-seat arena for a non-conference game since 2007, and it was loud. 
The entire first half was played at the Cavelier’s pace, and the Rams led most of the way by driving to the basket and either drawing fouls or making shots from close in. Virginia,who committed 12 fouls, made only three field goals in the first 13 minutes, but used a late 10-0 run to lead 26-24 at halftime. 
NFL 
Titans lose QB Locker, maintain playoff hopes 
Associated Press 
The Tennessee Titans have a new quarterback going into a cru­cial game against the AFC South division leader knowing one thing they must do immediately. 
Not turn the ball over. 
The Titans started 3-1 when they didn’t turn the ball over even once. They had a season-high four turnovers in becom­ing the first team to lose to Jacksonville last weekend, the last a sack for a fumble returned for a touchdown. 
holding onto the ball also could help a run game that looks like what coach Mike Munchak wants one week only to disap­pear the next. 
Now they have lost Jake Locker for the rest of the season with Ryan Fitzpatrick taking over starting Thursday against the Colts. 
“Turnovers,” offensive coor­dinator dowell Loggains said Tuesday. “That’s the nice thing about this. If we eliminate the turnovers ... we’ll be all right.” 
Munchak agreed: “We were sloppy with the ball.” 
The Titans still are plus-4 in turnover margin, but have lost at least two turnovers in four of their losses. 
Against Jacksonville, they lost all momentum on the first offensive play when Chris Johnson didn’t see a defender coming in from the outside to poke the ball out. That was Johnson’s first fumble all season. 

“We’re a good team,” Johnson said. “Just we making a lot of mental mistakes.” 
The Titans produced plenty of offense trying to rally against Jacksonville and outgained the Jaguars 362-214. But they settled for a pair of field goals and gave up a safety when right guard Chance Warmack was flagged for holding in the end zone. A week after rushing for a season-high 198 yards, they also couldn’t pick up a first down at the end of the third quarter on third-and-1. 
The rallycameonceFitzpatrick took over for the injured Locker, who was put on injured reserve Tuesday. 
Fitzpatrick threw for 264 yards with two touchdowns and also ran for a 4-yard Td. But Fitzpatrick, who was inter­cepted four times in two starts last month, had the ball stripped from him in the fourth quarter. 
Colts coach Chuck Pagano was impressed by Fitzpatrick’s come­back, even though the Titans just missed. he said Fitzpatrick is more than capable. 
“he’s athletic enough to ex­tend plays, makes all the reads, has the arm talent to beat you,” Pagano said. “he’s got a bunch of weapons around him, obviously a great run game that you got to contend with. Ryan’s done it and done it for a long time and won games.” 
The key for both Fitzpatrick and the Titans may be they’ve both had more time together. Both Loggains and Fitzpatrick said those two starts helped them both have a better feel and rhythm together. 
With center Brian Schwenke likely out Thursday with an in­jured right ankle, Fitzpatrick also will be working with someone he’s practiced with plenty in vet­eran Chris Spencer. 
The Titans have struggled early in games this season, being outscored 36-27 in the first quar­ter. Three of the turnovers to the Jaguars came before halftime. 
Fitzpatrick said a good start against Luck and his dynamic-Colts offense will be important for momentum because during early struggles it’s almost seemed as if the Titans are waiting for someone to step up and make a play. 
“When things are doing well, you can feel that momentum and feels like the football field gets slanted and it gets you on a roll and you start scoring points,” Fitzpatrick said. “It’d be good to get that going early.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



CLUB SPORTS 

Women’s rugby dominates Michigan State 
Field hockey team beats Michigan; Equestrian Club earns Reserve High Point Team honors 
to learn than a fifteens tourna-sophomore Alex Buccilli. for matches against dePaul and Men’s Ice Hockey 
Special to The Observer 
ment. The Irish performed well, Wisconsin-Platteville. The match-The Irish traveled to Rolling 

Notre dame traveled to even though they had only been Squash Club es were played at the Lakeshore Meadows, Ill., over the week-Michigan State university to chal-practicing sevens for two weeks The squash team traveled to a Sport & Fitness Club in Chicago. end for games against dePaul on lenge the Spartans on Saturday, prior to the tournament. tournament in dayton this past Notre dame played dePaul B Friday and Saturday. Oct. 19. The Irish took control Their first game was played weekend. It played against a group first, winning 26-18. Junior Alaina The Irish fell twice to the fourth-early in the game and never relin-against Indiana university and of mostly high-school students Anderson and freshman Morgan ranked Blue demons, 8-3 and 6-3. quished it. Multiple players scored, was their first real taste of sevens from the dayton area who play Marinovich played women’s On Friday, the Irish struggled out including seniors Leah Fisher (2), play. While the Irish were unable at the club that hosted the tour-doubles, losing 4-6. Freshmen of the gate, surrendering three Clare Robinson and Elizabeth to win, this game prepared them nament. Notre dame lost, 6-3. Jamie Sullivan and Kevin Culligan early goals in the first, eventually Peterson; juniors Amy Mcdill, for their next against Penn State. The Irish bounced back in play played men’s doubles, winning heading to the locker room down and Shannon Kenny; and sopho-Notre dame played much bet-against the university of Illinois 6-2. Freshman Ali Scoggin played 4-1. dePaul opened the second more Katie Loughran (2). Junior ter in this game but still did not in Springfield, winning 8-1. women’s singles, winning 6-2. with another barrage, putting Claire Kozlowski missed only one win. In their last game of pool Notre dame lost to Washington Junior Casey Leary played men’s away an early pair of goals to put conversion kick. The Irish only let play, the Irish played the Big 10 university in St. Louis 9-0, then lost singles, winning 6-2. Freshman the game out of reach. Notre dame their defense down for a minute, developmental team and se-a very close match to university of Sophia hooper and Senior Ryan took the third period, but it was far which resulted in a 54-5 victory cured a win. Notre dame faced Illinois Champaign-urbana, 5-4. grojean played mixed doubles from enough. Freshman forward over the Spartans. Michigan State university in its and lost 3-6 but then won the next Abdel Medina led the Irish with 
The next weekend, the Irish first bracket game but was unsuc-Field Hockey game to seal the Irish victory. two goals and an assist, while se­traveled to Ann Arbor to play cessful. Notre dame’s final game On Sunday, club field hockey Notre dame played dePaul A nior forward Parker Teufel scored Michigan in a heated rivalry of the tournament, which it played hosted a doubleheader against next, losing 22-24. Anderson and and had a helper. Sophomore match. The contest was tough-against the developmental team Ohio State and Michigan, hooper lost in women’s doubles, goaltender Nick Stasack started fought, but the Irish ultimately again, resulted in a win. The final emerging from the afternoon 1-6. Leary and grojean won in net for the Irish, allowing four were unsuccessful.  Notre dame outcome of the tournament was undefeated. in men’s doubles 6-3. Scoggin goals on 19 shots until he was had an early score by sophomore two wins and three losses for the Notre dame dispatched the played women’s singles, losing relieved by junior Justin dancu, Katie Loughran but was unable to Irish, but the losing record did not Wolverines by a score of 5-2, with 4-6. Sullivan played men’s sin-who stopped 20 shots. stop the Wolverines. But the Irish reflect the team’s opinion of its two goals from junior Julia Brehl gles, winning 6-3. Culligan and In the second game of the series, finished on a positive note with performance. and a goal apiece from junior Marinovich played mixed doubles the Irish scored first when sopho­a game-ending try by Peterson. The Irish felt it was a good op-Anna ullman, freshman Kate and lost a close one in the tiebreak, more forward JC Tellez found the Kozlowski converted both tries for portunity to learn how sevens is hardiman and freshman Olivia 5-6 (2-5). net in the first period, but they a final score of 14-52. actually played and to see where Newey. For the final match, the Irish were unable to hold the lead, 
Last weekend, Notre dame trav-they need to improve before their Against the Buckeyes, the Irish took on Wisconsin-Platteville, eventually falling 6-3. Senior for­eled to Ohio State for the Big 10 next game. While all the women closed out the afternoon with a winning 29-11. Scoggin and ward Victor LaVasseur and junior Sevens Tournament. In a sevens played well, some players had defensive struggle, ending in a Marinovich played women’s dou-forward Mike Marino also scored tournament, each team has only stand-out performances: seniors hardfought 0-0 tie. bles and won, 6-2. grojean and for the Irish. Medina finished with seven players on the field at a time, Amelia Vojt, Elizabeth Peterson Sullivan played men’s doubles two assists, while Stasack stopped and halves are only seven min-and newcomer Jenny Fucillo, ju-Tennis and won, 6-2. Anderson won 6-1 48 shots in net. utes. This change results in much niors Claire Kozlowski, Shannon On Saturday, Notre dame trav-in women’s singles. Leary played The Irish are off next weekend. quicker play and is more difficult Kenny and Amy Mcdill, and eled to the university of dePaul men’s singles and lost in the tie­
break, 5-6. Culligan and hooper Men’s Rowing 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
won in mixed doubles, 6-0. Last weekend, Notre dame took a training trip to St. Louis for Equestrian Club joint practices with Washington 
This past Saturday, Notre university of St. Louis and dePaul dame/Saint Mary’s traveled to university.  The team arrived at gurnee, Ill., to compete in the the boathouse early Saturday Northwestern horse Show. The morning to begin the day’s work. team once again had a successful The novice team took to the wa­day, taking home Reserve high ter first, racing novice crews from Point Team honors. The day got the other two schools in a 3,500 off to a great start, with senior cap-meter race (just short of the stan­tains Katie Walsh and Stephanie dard fall racing distance). The Nearhos taking 1st and 5th in novice finished a close second be-Open Fences. Sophomores Katie hind Wash. u. Lockhart and Annabelle duncan The varsity crews went out next then put in great rides to take 1st to race the same piece. The Notre and 4th in Novice Fences. In the flat dame Varsity 8+ and the JV8+ fin-portion of the day, Walsh started ished first and second in a hard-off with a 4th place finish in Open fought race. After a brief break, Flat. Sophomore Isabelle hillberg the team took the water against then followed, taking 2nd place in dePaul for more practice pieces. Intermediate Flat. Lockhart and The results were the same, with sophomore danielle gibaut ex-the top two Notre dame boats celled in Novice Flat, coming in 1st leading all others. Later that after-and 2nd. The Walk Trot Canter rid-noon, the team took to the water ers all had a good afternoon, start-for the day’s second practice. In ing with sophomore Ina Jonathas mixed lineups (both novice and and sophomore Kait Smith, fin-varsity in the same boat), the team ishing 2nd and 5th in Advanced held another intense practice. Walk Trot Canter. Sophomore After an hour of intrasquad com-Annalis Cigarroa and junior petition, the team called it a day. Shannon Swartz had good rides in Sunday morning, the team Beginner Walk Trot Canter plac-took advantage of another warm­ing 1st and 4th. To finish the day, weather practice with one last junior Rose McClimans came in trip to the water before depart­3rd and Brianna Scivinksy came ing for South Bend. Once again in 4th in her IhSA debut in Walk in mixed lineups, the team held Trot. Sophomore Katie Lockhart more intrasquad race pieces. It took home the high Point Rider was a short practice, and after award, qualifying for regionals in de-rigging the boats and loading Novice Flat, while freshman Katie them onto the team trailer, the Walsh qualified for the regional team returned to South Bend on competition in Open Fences. Sunday evening. 



ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

NFL 

Colts combat slow starts and injuries 
Associated Press 
INdIANAPOLIS — Andrew Luck prefers simple solutions. 
So when he was asked this week about the Colts’ grow­ing propensity for slow starts, he came up with one word: Execution. 
What has been a season-long concern has suddenly emerged as a glaring problem that needs to be fixed — and fast. 
“It looks lethargic,” coach Chuck Pagano said. 
“We talk all the time, you don’t win games in the National Football League, you lose them. We’re doing everything possible to put ourselves in these holes. We found out (Sunday) that we put ourselves in one that we couldn’t find the magic to get out of.” 
Few teams have been as suc­cessful in the second half as the Colts (6-3), and few quarterbacks have been as good at rallying a team as Luck whose 10 game-winning drives in the fourth quarter are the most of any play­er in his first two seasons since the 1970 merger. 
But Indy doesn’t want to keep putting Luck in such tenuous situations. 
The obvious solution is better starts. 
Indy’s numbers are stunning. Over the past two weeks, the Colts have punted 10 times, had six three-and-outs, a blocked field goal, a fumble returned for a touchdown, a punt returned for a touchdown and given up Td passes of 62, 41 and 57 yards in the first half. 
Not surprisingly, they’ve been outscored 49-3 during that stretch — something that must change Thursday night at Tennessee (4-5). 
It’s no fluke. 
Indy has faced first-quarter double-digit deficits against Miami, Seattle and houston and it took the Rams 15½ minutes to do the same thing in Sunday’s 38-8 blowout. 
What’s wrong? 
“Like I said, we’re not the hunt­ers no more. We’re the hunted,” cornerback Vontae davis said. “So teams are coming out throw­ing punches at us.” 
Injuries have hurt, too. 
Running back Vick Ballard (knee) and tight end dwayne Allen (hip), both starters, went down with season-ending in­juries after Week 1. Left guard donald Thomas (quad) was lost for the season in Week 2, and Ballard’s replacement, Ahmad Bradshaw, started two games be­fore a neck injury ended his sea­son in Week 3. 
Those four injuries were a ma­jor blow to Indy’s transformation from a pass-first team to a power-running team. 
however, the biggest hit came Oct. 20 when Wayne tore the an­terior cruciate ligament in his right knee. 
Without Wayne, Luck is com­pleting just 54 percent of his passes and while he has thrown for 624 yards, four Tds and three interceptions — numbers more befitting his rookie season than reflecting the progression he’s made in year 2. 
The running game, mean­while, has become stagnant. Indy has run just 28 times for 87 yards the past two weeks as it tried to play catch-up. 
Even Luck acknowledges it’s been different as his young re­ceivers try to replace Wayne’s Pro Bowl productivity. 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL | BAyLOR 66, SOuTh CAROLINA 64 
Baylor holds on to win 
Associated Press 
WACO, Texas — Brady heslip scored 18 points with five 3-pointers and No. 23 Baylor held on for a 66-64 victory over South Carolina, without mak­ing a field goal in the final 7 minutes and having to wait out a lengthy review after the final buzzer Tuesday before officials determined there wasn’t yet an­other foul in the game. 
South Carolina (1-1) was des­perately trying to get a tying basket, and the ball was still being batted around when the buzzer sounded at the same time a referee blew a whistle for an apparent foul. The refs re­viewed the video before declar­ing the game was over. 
The gamecocks didn’t score again after Sindarius Thornwell penetrated around 7-foot-1 Isaiah Austin with 4:20 left to tie the game at 64. 
Thornwell, who finished with 20 points, got two shots up in the final 4 seconds. Michael Carrera then grabbed a rebound and went back up, drawing contact that led to the whistle. 
South Carolina coach Frank Martin said officials did a good a job, and explained that the contact came after the red light came on indicating that time had run off the clock. 
Austin had 14 points for Baylor (2-0). Taurean Prince had eight points and 12 rebounds. 
The game was plagued by 55 fouls, as opposed to 37 field goals. Baylor shot only 54 percent on free throws (22 of 41). South Carolina was 25 of 36 on free throws. 
South Carolina had a chance to take the lead with 2:27 left when Tyrone Johnson had a steal and breakaway, but he missed the layup. 
Royce O’Neal made the first of his two free throws with 2:02 left for Baylor to finally break the 64-all tie. South Carolina then had a shot-clock violation, when Brenton Williams had to throw up a long shot and missed the rim after the ball had been knocked out of bounds with 4 seconds left on the shot clock. 
Carrera blocked a shot by Cory Jefferson before Johnson missed another layup chance with 42 seconds left when Austin got a block. 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 




ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish prepare for NCAA tournament amid hype 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
When the NCAA Championship draws were an­nounced online at 4:30 p.m. Monday, No. 23 Notre dame wasn’t huddled around a com­puter. Instead, the team was out on the practice field, preparing for the start of its second season. 
“We didn’t watch the se­lection,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “We were actu­ally out training in the snow, but when we told [the players] at the end, they were really excited, especially to be getting a home game.” 
The Irish (11-7-1, 7-5-1 ACC) will play at Alumni Stadium for their first-round NCAA Championship match against Iowa on Friday at 7 p.m. Notre dame has not played at home since Oct. 24, when the Irish earned a 3-1 win over Boston College. 
As the Irish have played six of their last eight games on the road, Waldrum said he was more concerned about the location of their first-round game than about their opponent. 
“We’ve been on the road so much, and this time of the year is such an important time with the playoff run,” he said. “This is what we’re always built to do, is to try to get deep into the tourna­ment and to the [NCAA College Cup]. Playing at home, I think, is a huge advantage.” 
Waldrum said he and several players are utilizing social media to help the team meet its desired goal of 3,000 fans in attendance Friday night. Notre dame has had an average attendance of 1,248 spectators through 11 home games this season. 
Fans will have the opportu­nity to see Notre dame play in its 21st consecutive NCAA Championship, a streak that is second only to North Carolina’s 32 straight NCAA Championship appearances. 
Waldrum said the tournament appearance streak is a tribute to the program’s consistency over a long period. 
“I think it shows that we’ve been able to be a program that can sustain some excellence, instead of being like a lot of pro­grams that are in this year and out the next,” he said. “I’m really proud of the consistency we’ve been able to show, but that’s not just from me — that’s from [for­mer Irish coach] Chris Petrucelli and former players, as well as this current group.” 
Notre dame will enter its matchup with the hawkeyes (15-6-1, 5-5-1 Big Ten) having lost six of its last eight games. Four of these defeats came in double overtime, including a 3-2 loss to No. 1 Virginia on Oct. 10. 
Notre dame’s late-game strug­gles against tough ACC competi­tion have helped the team learn how to face adversity, Waldrum said. 
“I said to the players last week, ‘I don’t think we’ve ever been more prepared to play in an NCAA tournament than we have this year,’ and that’s going back even to the years we won it,” Waldrum said. “We’re not go­ing to face anybody that’s any better than what we’ve faced over the last month of our sea­son, so I think we should be extremely confident and very well-prepared.” 
Last season, the Irish ad­vanced to the quarterfinals of the NCAA Championship, where they fell to No. 1 seed Florida State. With nearly all the person­nel from last year’s team back, 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

the Irish have their eyes set on next month’s NCAA College Cup, Waldrum said. 
“Our expectation is to take it a step forward and get to the Final Four,” he said. “That’s go­ing to take us putting together four really good games because we don’t have an easy road. Iowa this Friday night is not going to be easy; they’ve had a great run the whole season, not only in their conference tournament. If we’re fortunate to get past them, looking ahead, there’s no easy stops for us.” 
Notre dame kicks off its NCAA Championship play when it meets Iowa in a first-round matchup Friday night at 7 p.m. at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 



ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Academics motivate Holloway off the court 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
Every year, select ath­letes are nominated to their conference All-Academic team. Irish junior guard Whitney holloway is one of the mainstays on that list, having been nominated to the Big East All-Academic team both of the past two seasons as a freshman and as a sophomore. 
“The nomination means a lot to me,” holloway said. “Balancing school and bas­ketball is very hard. To be able to keep my grades up while playing for one of the best coaches and programs in the country is great. It makes me feel good about myself and motivates me to keep my grades up so that I can get back on that list.” 
Not only is holloway jug­gling regular coursework and varsity athletics, but the junior Psychology ma­jor also carries a minor in Business Economics. 
“I figured a background is business would open a lot of doors after my time here, but my interests are more in psychology,” holloway said. “I like psychology because it’s not like your basic math or science, where you have one set answer. In class, I’m never bored. I’m really interested in the material the professors are teach­ing, and it’s just a really fun thing to learn about.” 
Though she possesses an inherent interest in the subject matter, juggling schoolwork and sports is no easy task. 
“In the spring, it’s the hardest because you miss so many classes,” holloway 
said.  “Sometimes  we’re  
gone  for  almost  a  week  
straight.  It’s  really  hard  

missing all of the material they go over in class and I end up having to teach my­self all the material from the book on my own.” 
Not only do athletes miss classes, but holloway also said the constant travel and regular games could wear players down. 
“having to do your home­work on the road or the hotel isn’t easy,” she said. “hotel beds are really comfy, and you’re really tired. you just want to sleep in them. you can’t though; you have to stay up and do your work. It’s really challenging to get your stuff done when you’re away from school.” 
For holloway, her time at Notre dame isn’t all about academics. Last season, the junior guard averaged 
2.7 points per game while shooting over 47 percent from the field. Though her scoring numbers did not top the team, holloway be­lieves her strengths lie at the other end of the court. 
“On the court, my on-ball defense is definitely my strength,” holloway said. “I’m good at pres­suring the opposing point guard and making her uncomfortable.” 
Though, as expected, not all of holloway’s goals are located within the lines. 
“There is an adidas net­working event I’m going to next week,” holloway said. “I would love to work for adidas; I think that would be a really cool job. I don’t want to be in an office, and I think working for them would be really exciting.” 
Still, the junior has two years left at Notre dame, both in the ACC. As expect­ed, her eyes aren’t far from another conference All-Academic nomination. 
“That’s the goal, to get nominated again,” holloway said. “That’s al­ways a goal.” 
Currently, No. 6 Notre dame is ranked among the best teams in the coun­try. On Monday, the Irish topped No. 19 Michigan State 81-62. 
“The game against Michigan State was just a big win,” holloway said. “It gave us a ton of confidence. I think it’s going to be a re­ally good season and I’m ex­cited to see how far we get.” 
On Saturday, the Irish will return to action when they host Valparaiso at 2 p.m. at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 






Captain 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 
“It helps a lot,” he said. “These guys have been play­ing, I’ve been playing with them for three years now. And it’s something that I’ve kind of just learned from them and just taken from them, ever since I came in being a year younger than them, [with them] having gone through it a year before me. 
It’s something that I’ve kind of just thrived on and tried to produce just like they do.” 
Listed as a guard/forward, Connaughton will necessar­ily play a major role in Notre dame’s rebounding efforts. The departure of former Irish forward Jack Cooley, who led the team in rebounding by a significant margin with 
10.1 per-game, has left Notre dame without any one player able to rebound in bulk con­sistently. Through two games, Connaughton has 13 boards, good enough to tie for the team lead with senior forward garrick Sherman. 
“It’s something I’ve always done,” Connaughton said of rebounding from the guard position. “It’s something I’ve been used to, just using my jumping ability to get re­bounds. It helps me get in the game, attacking the ball. It helps me get involved and helps everything else come easier.” 
Now in his third year as a dual-sport athlete at the col­lege level, Connaughton said balancing his commitments to the two sports has gotten more manageable as his expe­rience has grown. 
“The first year was hard just because I didn’t know how to do it,” he said. “Now, last year I had one year under my belt. I was able to see what worked and what didn’t work. This year, I’ve got two years, so it’s easier. I’ve been around it 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 


twice now and I can really fig­ure out how to excel at both. And more being asked of me out of both, it’s easier for me to produce both.” 
This basketball season, Connaughton will have to pay special attention to be an ef­fective mentor and teacher on the court, something Irish coach Mike Brey has spoken to him about. 
“Coach wanted me to be a vocal leader on the team,” Connaughton said. “We’ve talked about it since the end of last year, over the summer, whatever it may be. It’s some­thing I’ve kind of expected out of myself, and more is going to be expected out of me to pro­duce on the court and vocally, as well. So it’s something I’m trying to do in both regards.” 
With freshmen guards demetrius Jackson, Steve Vasturia and freshman for­ward V.J. Beacham all likely contributors to the Notre dame squad in its debut season as part of the ACC, Connaughton has plenty of incentive to be a teacher on the court. 
“People did the same thing for me when I came in as a freshman,” he said. “I was looking to come in and play, and they helped me do that. And it’s something that I want to help them do it, because they are great players and they are going to be a big as­set to the team.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

M Soccer 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 
In the 71st minute, sophomore midfielder Evan Panken had two solid looks at goal from in 18 yards within 45 seconds of each other. Panken had Notre dame’s last attempted shot of the game with four minutes to go, but the Irish could not place the ball into the back of the net for a late-in­surance goal. 
The Irish now quickly move on from their victory over the Blue devils to the ACC semifinals to play No. 12 Virginia (9-4-4, 4-3­4). Virginia defeated Wake Forest (9-4-5, 6-1-4) in penalty kicks in overtime Tuesday. Notre dame lost to Virginia 2-0 on Oct. 26, which marks Notre dame’s only loss on the season. 
“It’s nice to get a go at the one team that has a blemish in our re­cords, but it will be a hard game, because Virginia was the only game I feel undid us here and this whole season,” Clark said. “I felt we had the upper hand in ev­ery game we’ve played, with the exception of Virginia, so this will be a tough game but one we are looking forward to.” 
The Irish take on Virginia in the ACC semifinals Friday at Maryland SoccerPlex in germantown, Md., at 8 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

Football 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 
our last home game,” Kelly said. “In particular, sending our seniors out with a win. They’ve got four quarters left in Notre dame Stadium. They are going to be a huge part of the history of Notre dame, and helping us to four bowl games, a national championship, and we are going to do everything in our power to make sure that our seniors go out winners.” 
Injuries continue to pile up 
With several players already sidelined following various injuries, Notre dame accrued a few more medical concerns in Saturday’s defeat. The de­fensive front entered the matchup with the Panthers (5­4, 2-3 ACC) already down se­nior defensive lineman Kona Schwenke and junior outside linebacker Ishaq Williams, but became even more thin fol­lowing injuries to sophomore defensive lineman Jarron Jones and freshman defensive lineman Isaac Rochell during the game. 
“They’re in our new line of shoewear, called ‘The Boot’,” Kelly said. “They are wearing boots right now. They both have ankle sprains, so we are day-to-day with those guys right now.” 
Kelly said he expected Schwenke’s cast to come off later in the day yesterday as he progressed following a high-ankle sprain suffered against Navy. Meanwhile, Williams’ knee sprain has been upgrad­ed from a grade 2 to a grade 1. 
In addition, Irish junior center Nick Martin broke his hand during the first half of Saturday’s game but finished the contest and will likely be ready to go against the Cougars (6-3). For the first time in his coaching career, Kelly will not practice his team during the bye week due to in­jury concerns. 
“The guys that I would be practicing, we need,” Kelly said. “So we are condition­ing them pretty hard Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday will be the bulk of the work.” 
Kelly weighs in on targeting 
Irish junior defensive end Stephon Tuitt was cited for targeting after a tackle of Pittsburgh redshirt quarter­back Tom Savage at the begin­ning of the second quarter and was ejected from the game. Earlier in the season, Irish ju­nior linebacker Ben Councell, now out for the season with a knee injury, drew an ejection and a targeting foul for a hit against Oklahoma on Sept. 28. 
“As it relates to the coaching of our players, we will continue to coach our players to be ag­gressive, to tackle, to get to the football,” Kelly said. “We’ve never talked about punish­ing ball-carriers or leading with the helmet … so we won’t change in terms of the way we go to work on it every day.” 
In the case of Tuitt, Kelly said the penalty was an unfor­tunate way to conclude what had been a hustle play from the athletic interior lineman. 
“Clearly, when a 320-pound inside player is running from the hash to the numbers at full speed and trying to make a play and gets thrown out of the game, I don’t think that’s what the rule was intended for,” Kelly said. “So clearly we are going to have to look at the rule in greater detail after the season. Because we … don’t want to take that effort out of the game.” 
Play-call balance not an issue 
Notre dame only ran the ball six times during the second half of its most recent outing and ended with 140 rushing yards on 24 attempts. Junior running back george Atkinson led the way with 57 yards on six carries, while junior Cam Mcdaniel received a team-high nine carries and com­piled 23 yards. Irish freshman running back Tarean Folston carried the ball four times for 13 yards one week after rack­ing up 140 yards on 18 rushes against Navy. 

The Irish finished with 39 passes to the 24 running plays, but Kelly said the disparity does not concern him. 
“Each game is different … in terms of circumstances,” Kelly said. “Run-to-pass ratio, to me is flow of the game, cir­cumstances, where you are on the flow of the game. I think … at one time we were like 23 passes to 21 runs during the game. So I think we are always trying to get to a balance situ­ation, but the game and the circumstances of the game always change what is going on. … I would like to run the ball more effectively but there were some circumstances that prevented us from being able to do that.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | WILL ShORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChRISTOPhER BRuCKER 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hILLARy MANgIAFORTE 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | ThE MEPhAM gROuP 

HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kieran Culkin, 31; Lacey Chabert, 31; Marion Cotillard, 38; Jenna Elfman, 42. 
Happy Birthday: Stay focused on what’s most important to you. use your knowl­edge and expertise to protect your environment, community and beliefs. don’t let the past hold you back or lead you in a direction that doesn’t encourage progress. Keep your life simple and within your budget. A different means of income is likely. An innovative approach to life will help. your numbers are 7, 9, 20, 13, 35, 39, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Follow your heart and your dreams. your ambitious attitude will contribute to connecting with people heading in a similar direction. Form a unique group of hand-picked individuals and everything else will fall into place. Think big and take positive action. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t share your thoughts if you think they will upset someone. The people you are dealing with aren’t likely to have the same intentions or direction as you. A difficult decision may be necessary. Satisfy your needs first and foremost.  

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Follow through with promises you make and everyone will be happy. Finding solutions for others will turn you into the go-to person, but when trying to solve personal problems, you are likely to be emotionally self-decep­tive. home improvement will pay off.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t overspend on items you don’t need. Being gener­ous will not buy love, respect or loyalty. Eliminate your problem by addressing issues head-on. Emotional encounters should be geared toward passion, not aggression, jealousy or revenge.  

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t say yes to everyone. Being too generous will get you into trouble. Offer wisdom in a caring manner and you will make a difference. If you exhibit a pushy attitude, you will be accused of interfering.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep your mind on whatever you are doing. Address responsibilities head-on, offering diverse, smart solutions, but don’t fight someone else’s battles. False information will lead to someone taking advantage of you. do your homework. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Re-evaluate what isn’t working for you and make adjust­ments. Participate in an event that you feel passionate about and it will lead to meeting new people. This is not the time to spend money, but offering your time will make a difference. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Jealousy will lead to loss. Consider why you feel the way you do and make the changes required. Strive to reach success regardless of what others do and you will feel satisfied in the end. Romance is highlighted. Make love, not war.  

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put greater emphasis on taking action. Talking about what you want to do will no longer impress those waiting for you to deliver the goods. Make a difference by taking charge and following through. you can prog­ress if you start with self-improvement.  

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t be afraid to take a different route or explore avenues and alternatives that require you to rely on someone else. Explore a change of location or do the research that will help put your mind at ease. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Some people are better off avoided. don’t be a glutton for punishment. If something isn’t working, move on. Focus on what and who can and will make a difference to your life and your future. Pick and choose what works for you.  

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take advantage of any and every opportunity. Share what you have to offer and you will persuade others to use your service, talent or knowledge in diverse ways. A partnership may be suggested, but it might not be in your best interest.  

Birthday Baby: you are observant and proactive. you are truly fearless and adapt easily 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNuREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
Name  

Address 
City State Zip 


ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

MEN’S SOCCER | Nd 1, duKE 0 
One is all it takes 

Lone goal by Hodan propels No. 1 Notre Dame to win over Duke in ACC Championship quarterfinals 
that domination. 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 

Sports Writer “[Sophomore midfielder Connor] Klekota played it to [se-
The Irish did more than just nior forward] harry [Shipp], and beat the 25-degree weather then harry played a fantastic Tuesday night — they beat the ball over the top, and we were Blue devils to make it through able to score off that,” hodan the first round of the ACC said. Championship. Shipp was taken down by duke 
No. 1 and second-seeded Notre junior midfield Nick Palodichuk dame (12-1-5, 7-1-3 ACC) opened to give the Irish a free kick out-up its postseason with a 1-0 win side the box. Klekota passed it to over seventh-seeded duke (8-5-Shipp, who chipped it over the 6, 3-3-5) in the ACC quarterfinals top to hodan, who then volleyed at Alumni Stadium. The tem-the ball out of the air for a goal. perature might have been below “It’s one we’ve worked on in freezing, but the Irish were able the practice ground with [junior to combat the cold after warm-midfielder] Robby [gallegos], ing up in the first half. Connor, harry and Patrick,” 
“duke is a fairly physical team Clark said. “We spent a little bit and they pressure very hard, and of time on that and saved it for it was hard to connect our passes the playoffs. We have a few more in the first half,” Irish head coach up our sleeves, but that was a Bobby Clark said. “I think as the nice one tonight.” game wore on, we found a little The first half was much slower-bit of space and took over the paced than the second for both game. teams, with Notre dame tally-The Irish owed a great deal win the second ball and play it duke senior midfielder 
“The second half, we played ing only three shots and duke of their momentum and ball to them in the pockets,” Klekota Jonathan Aguirre tripped junior very, very well.” zero. Feeding off the energy from movement in the second half to said. “That was something we forward Vince Cicciarelli in the 
Similar to the regular-sea-hodan’s goal near the top of the Klekota. Klekota racked up three strived to do today — get the 62nd minute, and Klekota took a son matchup between the two second half, the Irish ended with shots, one shot on goal and one ball in the pockets because then free kick straight to the goal, but teams, the Irish controlled the a total of 13 shots in the half for a assist in the game. hodan, harry and all those guys duke fifth-year senior goalkeep­second half, and sophomore total of 16, while the Blue devils “One thing we make a point to could turn, and I think that re-er Alex Long made the save. midfielder Patrick hodan’s lone only managed three on the do as midfielders is connect with ally began to work in the second goal in the 58th minute proved whole game. the wide mids and forwards, and half.” see M SOCCER PAGE 18 

FOOTBALL 

Irish adjust expectations 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Associate Sports Editor 
Coming off its third loss of the season, Notre dame is fac­ing a reality that does not in­clude a top-flight bowl game, much less one of the coveted few of the BCS variety. 
After falling to Pittsburgh, 28-21, Saturday at heinz Field, the Irish (7-3) enter a bye week before welcoming Byu for Senior day on Nov. 
23. Although the loss derailed what many Irish fans and players had hoped would be a chance to earn a spot in one of the four most anticipated post-season games, exclud­ing the national title game, Irish coach Brian Kelly said it does not change his team’s motivation. 

“It’s really not that hard for us, because whether it’s a BCS bowl game or it’s not a BCS bowl game, it’s still are playing in Miami or New about week-to-week at Notre Orleans or whatever the des­dame,” he said at Tuesday’s tination is, they are all run-press conference. “There’s re-ner-up games. So it’s really ally only one goal. It’s trying about the next game and win-to get to a national champion-ning the next game.” ship, and next year, obvious-The next game up for Notre ly, playoffs. So whether you dame is more important than most, as it represents the final time many Irish seniors and graduate students will take their home field. 

“As I talk to our team, our primary focus is … winning 
see FOOTBALL PAGE 18 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Connaughton steps up as captain 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Associate Sports Editor 
Pat Connaughton is a hot-shooting guard, a key for­ward, an able ball-handler, and a consistent rebounder. And that only covers half of his athletic responsibilities. 
The junior swingman, who also pitches for Notre dame’s baseball team, is in his first year as an Irish co-captain, and even with his long list of duties and skills, manages to remain humble. 
“Oh it’s an honor, espe­cially being voted by the team as well as the coaches,” Connaughton said. “It was something that I’ve kind of al­ways wanted to be, and it was cool to get it. I just hope I can help our team win.” 
Connaughton did his share to help the Irish last year, starting all 35 contests for the Irish and contributing 
4.7 rebounds, 2.1 assists and 
8.9 points per game. The only sophomore in last season’s starting lineup, the Arlington, Mass., native now finds him­self one of the few players with two seasons of considerable playing time under his belt. his newly-assumed veteran status and captaincy com­bine to create a whole new set of standards, Connaughton said. 
“It just means more is ex­pected of you, and that’s something I’ve always thrived on as a player,” he said. “It’s something that I’m kind of comfortable in and have been doing. … It’s something I’ve been working toward and just kind of asking for more out of myself.” 
Connaughton forms part of an Irish backcourt filled with talent and experience. Senior guards Jerian grant and Eric Atkins, the latter of whom serves as a co-captain for the third-straight season, have been instrumental in Connaughton’s development. 
see CAPTAIN PAGE 17 







