The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 14 | FRIDAY, SPETMEMBER 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
An unconventional path to the Senate 
Notre Dame grad appointed to second New Jersey seat after the death of Lautenberg 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
asst. managing editor 

editor’s note: This is the first of a series featuring the notre dame and saint mary’s graduates serving as members of congress. This series, titled “Trading golden dome for capitol dome,” will run on Fridays. 
when sen. Frank lautenberg died on June 3, 2013, new Jersey gov. chris christie asked sen. Jeff chiesa, then the state’s at­torney general, to advise him on what action to take in light of the senator’s death. 
leaving the meeting, chiesa said he did not think he was someone christie might ask to fill the vacant senate seat. at about 10:15 p.m. that night, chiesa said he received a call from christie. 
“i got a call from the governor, who asked if he could come to my house and talk to my wife and i that night,” chiesa said. “and that’s when i said to my wife, ‘he is not coming over here to talk notre dame foot­ball’ … he is coming over be­cause he is going to ask me to go to the senate. we have a de­cision to make.’” 
chiesa said he spoke at length with his wife and christie about his appointment to the senate, and then accepted the offer the next day.  
“he didn’t care if i was run­ning, he never asked me how i would vote on anything, 
see capiTol PAGE 6 

Photo courtesy of the office of Senator Jack Chiesa 
Vice President Joe Biden swore in Chiesa as the first Republican senator of the state since 1982. Chiesa’s family stood with the new senator as the vice president performs the ceremony. 


bremyer named new director 
Elizabeth Kenney 
news writer 
The saint mary’s writing center welcomed aaron bremyer as its new director last summer after the previ­ous director, Kathy Thomas, retired in may. 
bremyer said he and his wife, assistant professor of english dionne bremyer, are thankful to be at the college. 
“we both fell in love with the place, fell in love with the students and fell in love with our colleagues,” bremyer said. “so far, so good.” 
aaron bremyer said this is his first time working at a single-gender institution. 

although he was unsure about the experience at first, he said now he really enjoys it. 
“students are students and people are people,” he said. “i love not having loud jerks running around campus. it is so quiet.” 
bremyer graduated from emporia university, in Flint hills, Kansas, with a degree in secondary english education. after teaching high school english for two years, he re­turned to emporia to earn a masters of english. he then moved to the university of connecticut to pursue a doc­torate in english. There, he first gained experience work­
“i saw this as an extension of the teaching that i was do­ing but also understood that it was quite different,” bremyer said. 
when he took a teaching position at the university of west georgia, bremyer said he simultaneously continued his part-time work with writ­ing centers. 
bremyer said collaboration will be the key to a successful saint mary’s writing center. he said 
The writing center can help all students, no matter what their ability levels are. 
“very successful writers 
ing in a writing center. see bremyer PAGE 5 


Mayor called to active duty 
Observer Staff Report 

south bend mayor pete buttigieg announced in a press conference Thursday after­noon that he has been called to active duty with the u.s. navy and will be deployed to afghanistan next year. 
a report from abc news said the mayor will be on active duty from Feb. 28, 2014, until sept. 30, 2014. buttigieg was commissioned as an officer in the us navy reserve in 2009 and holds the rank lieutenant Junior grade, the report stated. 
at the press conference, buttigieg named city controller mark neal as dep­uty mayor for the duration of his deployment. indiana law (indiana code section 5-6-2) holds that a mayor called to active duty is not considered to have vacated his office and so can name a deputy mayor in his absence. The deputy mayor, then, is to perform the mayor’s duties during his deployment. 
“my primary responsibility and focus every day is to lead south bend forward,” 
see mayor PAGE 4 



professor debunks ghost story 
notre dame: crossroads of the back to campus after curfew on 
By NICOLE McALEE 

news writer university, 1864-2004,” pro-a cold december night, gipp 
fessor of Film, Television and found himself locked out of his 
although george gipp, an all-Theatre mark pilkinton dedi-residence hall and ventured american football player for the cated an entire chapter to trac-to washington hall, where irish, died almost 100 years ago, ing the conflicting stories of the the door was often unlocked. local lore holds that the gipper alleged phantom. Finding the door locked, how-never quite left notre dame and The story of gipp’s death is still ever, gipp slept on the building’s his ghost remains in washington told around campus, although it hall. in “washington hall at is probably apocryphal: coming see myThs PAGE 6 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


If you could have a movie star as your father, who would he be? 

Connor Stacy 
Junior 
off campus 
“daniel day lewis.” 

Maxwell Veregge 
Junior 
siegfried hall 
“morgan Freeman.” 

Michelle Mann 
Freshman 
breen-phillips hall 
“morgan Freeman.” 



Peter Jochens 
Junior 
off campus 
“sean penn / Jeff spicoli.” 

Todd Hagist 
Junior 
off campus 
“billy bob Thornton.” 

Tricia Borderia 
senior 
off campus 
“leo dicaprio.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kaitlyn rabach a. J. godeaux Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: catherine owers aaron sant-miller charlie ducey brian hartnett 

Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
emily hoffmann miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Lecture: “Violence in Free SatAWAY Mass at the Basilica Lecture: Designing Classic Film: 
Karla moreno daniel sehlhorst 
Tudor Ireland” Classes Basilica of the Sacred Sustainable High Metropolis Flanner Hall Rolfs Sports Heart Rise Architecture DeBartolo Performing 3 p.m.-4:30 p.m. Recreation Center 11:45 a.m. 104 Bond Hall Arts Center 
Corrections 

Talk by Patricia Palmer 9:30 a.m.-10:25 a.m. Worship service. 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 3 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as from King’s College. Free yoga class on Lecture by Mr. Burns. Film from 1927. a professional publication and 
front lawn. SteamND Information 
strives for the highest standards 
Film: “Before Session Lecture: French Pop Men’s Soccer 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Midnight” ND Women’s DeBartolo Performing Music Alumni Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Performing Volleyball Arts Center 119 O’Shaughnessy Hall 7:30 p.m. -9:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Arts Center Joyce Center 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 5 p.m.- 6 p.m. Notre Dame men’s
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m Learn about  instrument Professor Kirk team takes on 
we can correct our error. 

Linklater’s 2013 film. Match versus Auburn. designing initiatives. Anderson speaks. Michigan. 


Granddaughter remembers Dorothy Day 
By CATRIONA SHAUGNESSY 
news wriTer 
martha hennessy, grand­daughter of the revolutionary disciple dorothy day, spoke Thursday night at geddes hall in remembrance of her grand­mother’s works for the imple­mentation of catholic social Teaching in society. 
hennessy, a passionate ad­vocate for day’s belief in the dignity of the human person, spoke of her grandmother’s journey of faith and direct ac­tion as well as her own experi­ences in relation to the catholic worker movement. 
“every serious decision i’ve made in my life was influenced by her,” hennessy said. 
hennessey said she did not come to be involved in catholic worker, the movement started by day and fellow activist, peter maurin, until later in her life, after she had raised her own children. during her earlier career, she practiced as an oc­cupational therapist. hennessy related her professional experi­ence to her new lifestyle of di­rect service at mary house, a catholic worker institution in manhattan. 
“in occupational therapy we use the term ‘therapeutic use of self’ … simply being there for 
“The timelessness of what she says ... That’s the most striking quality of her writing.” 
Martha Hennessy 
granddaughter of Dorothy Day 
the women,” she said. 
as she began to reflect on her personal memories of her grandmother, hennessy said how through her insistence on kindness and peacefulness, day showed her and her eight siblings how to live the extraor­dinary gospel in an ordinary setting, particularly in a family setting. 
“she was both ordinary and extraordinary,” hennessey said. hennessey said another characteristic of day was her poignant awareness of the mystical body of christ across humanity. she said even as a child, day understood how cri­ses influence human relations in light of god’s presence. she used the example of day’s reac­tion to the san Francisco earth­quake that occurred in 1906. 

“she saw how people re­sponded … how they loved and supported each other. she was only five- or six-years-old at the time,” she said. 
she said this awareness paired with extensive self-directed readings lead day to develop a keen understanding of social conditions under in­dustrialism and materialism and also served as the spark for the beginning of her faith. hennessey said after day’s con­version, she became increas­ingly active in her quest for social justice. on may 1, 1933, the catholic worker published its first newspaper. “The paper stressed the participation in the works of mercy to combat the materialism of industri­alism and communism,” she said. 
in 1931, hennessey said day also actively opposed world war ii, despite hitler’s flagrant malevolence, for she stood fast in her understanding of christ’s call to us to put down the sword. she said day witnessed the dropping of the atomic bomb, another event which provoked day’s sensitivity to the commu­nion of mankind. 

“she described it as the breathing in of our Japanese brothers and sisters,” hennessy said. 
hennessey said in addition to day’s immense faith, day was also an extraordinary writer. “The timelessness of what she says … That’s the most striking quality of her writing,” she said. 
hennessy said the basic prin­ciples of catholic worker move­ment are to use non-violent and passive resistance, be voluntary in poverty and to always offer hospitality to others. Through these, she said followers of day’;s example attempt to live out “authentic discipleship”. 
hennessy said she has fought her own fair share of battles when it comes to the global struggle for human dignity. she said she recently traveled to afghanistan to participate in a project in which young men from various tribes live togeth­er in community, serving as a testament to peace and coexis­tence in a country of corruption and violence. 

“They are faced with the ul­timate challenge of pacifism,” hennessy said. 
hennessy said she partici­pates in multiple global causes, including the guantanamo holding of muslim prisoners and the fight against the devel­opment of drones at hancock airbase in upstate new york. as a result of her involvement in these causes, she said she has two upcoming trial dates, which, she claims, is what she and her fellow activists strive for. 
“The goal is to bring the is­sues to trial,” she said. 
also, hennessy expressed no reservations concern­ing the possibility of indict­ment. rather, she views it as an opportunity. 
“penance,” she said, “penance for collective sinfulness.” 
Contact Catriona Shaughnessy at cshaugh2@nd.edu 
Bremyer 
conTinued From page 1 
come and benefit from work­ing with our tutors, so [the writing center] is for any level of preparedness,” bremyer said.  
The writing center now of­fers 30-minute and hour-long appointments, bremyer said. before, scheduling was limited to hour-long sessions. 
“we help any student at any point in the writing process,” bremyer said. 
bremyer emphasized the im­portance of writing as a neces­sary life skill. 
“being able to … communi­cate well in writing, as well as in any other mode, is an essen­tial quality,” he said. 
bremyer said the center of­fers a gradual process of as­sistance for writers looking to grow. 
“not every tutorial will be life-changing or develop the paper in some perfect way. not every paper is going to be an ‘a,’” bremyer said. “That is not our goal, anyway, but it is to im­prove through practice, slowly 
“Not every tutorial will be life-changing or develop the paper in some perfect way. Not very paper is going to be an ‘A.’ ... That is not our goal anyway, but it is to improve through practice, slowly and steadily. Every writing assignment will be better for having visited the Writing Center, and that is a powerful tool.” 
Aaron Bremyer 
director of Writing Center 
and steadily. every writing as­signment will be better for hav­ing visited the writing center, and that is a powerful tool.” 
Contact Elizabeth Kenney at ekenne01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Department offers rare books 
By GRACE McCORMACK 
news writer 
although often associ­ated with long study sessions and frantic all-nighters, the hesburgh library is also home to the department of rare books and special collections, a bountiful resource for re­searchers and students alike. 
The collections, which are located on the first floor of the library, contain a plethora of interesting items, curator and assistant professor of medi­eval studies david gura said. 
“special collections houses over 150,000 rare materials in a variety of formats, including manuscripts, printed books, maps, numismatics (coins), broadsides and posters and newspapers,” he said. 
gura said students often utilize the department’s col­lections for coursework in a va­riety of academic disciplines. 
“The materials cover a large range of topics, with specific strengths in irish studies, italian literature, me­dieval studies, theology, latin american studies, sports re­search, american catholic studies, natural science, nat­ural history and medicine, and united states history and 
Mayor 
conTinued From page 1 
buttigieg said at the press conference. “at the same time, as a military officer i have made a commitment to our country, and my orders require me to keep that promise by go­ing to afghanistan next year. i am ready to serve and perform duties i have been training to do for years, and then look forward to coming home to re­sume the extraordinarily ful­filling and important work of leading our city as major.” 
as city controller, neal’s responsibilities include over­seeing the city’s fiscal man­agement, human resources, information technology, pur­chasing insurance, labor nego­tiations, the budgeting process 
and  performance  manage­ 
ment  measures,  the  report  
said.  

u.s. senator Joe donnelly, a notre dame graduate, released a statement following the an­nouncement, commending buttigieg’s service. 
“There is no greater ser­vice than that of our men and women in uniform,” donnelly said in the statement. “i thank mayor pete for his service thus far as an officer in the u.s. navy reserve, and i wish him well as he uses his training to serve in afghanistan next year. 
“in indiana, we have a proud tradition of heeding the call to protect and defend our coun­try, and i thank all hoosiers who are currently or have pre­viously been a member of our armed Forces.” 
culture.” 
The department houses an expansive collection of works by dante, according to the de­partment’s website. Fr. John Zahm purchased most of the more than 3,500 volumes in 1902. gura said the depart­ment’s collection benefits the south bend and notre dame communities, as well as schol­ars throughout the world. 
“The collections are open to the all researchers from the general public as well as stu­dents, faculty, and staff from the university of notre dame, saint mary’s college and holy cross college,” gura said. “we also have visiting schol­ars from all around the world who travel to notre dame specifically to access these collections.” 
To ensure the collection continues to be invaluable for scholars inside and outside of the notre dame community, gura said the department consistently augments its resources. 
“The department is always acquiring new materials in a variety of areas and formats,” he said. 
The department of rare books and special collections usually obtains these new resources when the library ac­quires them, but some come from donations or gifts, gura said. 
“The criteria for what may enter the collection really de­pends on the specific item, its rarity and the context in which it can be situated,” he said. gura said these acquisitions range in age but are common­ly more than a century old. 
“as a general rule, all man­uscript material and books printed before 1850 will au­tomatically be placed in special collections,” gura said. The collection includes maps of the great lakes and mississippi watershed from the 16th through the 19th cen­turies, confederate currency from the civil war and a copy of John locke’s treatises, ac­cording to the department’s website. The current exhibi­tion, “Tír na nÓg,” highlights irish literature for young people. 
students, faculty and the general public may visit the department of rare books and special collections on mondays through Fridays from 9 a.m. to 5 .p.m. 
Contact Grace McCormack at gmccorma@nd.edu 


bill expands protection of journalists 
Associated Press 
washingTon — a senate panel on Thursday approved legislation designed to protect reporters and the news media from having to reveal their con­fidential sources after narrow­ing the definition of a journalist and establishing which formats 
— traditional and online — pro­vide news to people worldwide. 
on a 13-5 vote, the Judiciary committee cleared the way for the full senate to consider the measure. The vote came just months after the disclosure that the Justice department had se­cretly subpoenaed almost two months’ worth of telephone records for 21 phone lines used by reporters and editors for The associated press and secretly used a search warrant to ob­tain some emails of a Fox news journalist. 
The Justice department took the actions in looking into leaks of classified information to the news organizations. The ap re­ceived no advance warning of the subpoena. 
“one of the things that pro­tect democracy is the free flow of information,” said sen. patrick leahy, d-vt., chairman of the Judiciary committee, who mentioned his own con­nection to journalism. leahy’s parents, alba and howard, published a weekly newspaper before selling it and starting a printing business. 
criticism of the collection of the phone records and other material without any notice to the news organizations prompted president barack obama to order attorney general eric holder to review the department’s policy. The bill would incorporate many of the changes proposed by holder in July, including giving advance notice to the news me­dia of a subpoena. 

in a July 29 letter to leahy, holder said the measure “strikes a careful balance be­tween safeguarding the free­dom of the press and ensuring our nation’s security.” 
in a broadside against the obama administration, sen. John cornyn, r-Texas, said the legislation was merely a diver­sion by the white house. it was introduced three days after word emerged about the secret subpoenas of the ap records. 
“a new law is not what we need,” cornyn said. “we find ourselves here because of the abuses of the attorney general.” 
a point of dispute was the definition of a journalist. 
The original bill would have extended protections to a “covered person” who in­vestigates events and obtains material to disseminate news and information to the public. sen. chuck schumer, d-n.y., a chief proponent of the me­dial shield legislation, worked with sens. dianne Feinstein, d-calif., and dick durbin, d-ill., as well as representatives from news organizations, on a compromise. 
The protections would apply to “covered journalist,” defined as an employee, independent contractor or agent of an en­tity that disseminates news or information. The individual would have to have been em­ployed for one year within the last 20 or three months within the last five years. 
it would apply to student journalists or someone with a considerable amount of free­lance work in the last five years. a federal judge also would have the discretion to declare an in­dividual a “covered journalist,” who would be granted the priv­ileges of the law. 
The compromise also says that information is only privi­leged if it is disseminated by a news medium, described as “newspaper, nonfiction book, wire service, news agency, news website, mobile application or other news or information service (whether distributed digitally or otherwise); news program, magazine or other periodical, whether in print, electronic or other format; or thorough television or radio broadcast ... or motion picture for public showing.” 
while the definition covers traditional and online media, it draws the line at posts on Twitter, blogs or social media from non-journalists. 
The overall bill would pro­tect reporters and news media organizations from being re­quired to reveal the identities of confidential sources, but it does not grant an absolute privilege to journalists. 
“it’s Kevlar, not kryptonite,” schumer said. 
sen. Jeff sessions, r-ala., complained that the definition of a journalist was too broad. pushing back, Feinstein said the intent was to set up a test to de­termine a bona fide journalist. 
“i think journalism has a cer­tain tradecraft,” Feinstein said. “it’s a profession. i recognize that everyone can think they’re a journalist.” 
in a moment of levity at the two-hour plus hearing, sen. chuck grassley, r-iowa, re­marked that the legislation “will not shield me when i use Twitter.” 
responded leahy, “nothing shields us from our mistakes, chuck.” 
The panel approved the com­promise on a 13-5 vote. 
holder’s revised guidelines called for the government to give advance notice to the news media about subpoena requests for reporters’ phone records un­less the attorney general deter­mines such notice would pose a clear and substantial threat to the investigation. search warrants for a reporter’s email would apply only when the in­dividual is the focus of a crimi­nal investigation for conduct not connected to ordinary newsgathering. 



Professor studies games’ relationship to culture 
By ANNE ARNASON 
news writer 
peter bacon hales, a profes­sor emeritus at the university of illinois-chicago and an expert on american culture, stressed the interplay of cul­ture and games in the post-cold war world at a lecture Thursday in debartolo hall. 
“we can discover broader cultural functions that video games play, just as we did the same when we looked at tele­vision, popular music, mov­ies and even literature,” hales said. 
hales said one of the first video games to exist was “creepy cave adventure,” a simple code that responds to “yes” or “no” answers. he said there were two appeals to this game. 
“First, it offered a fantasy escape to a wonderful crazy world, and the other is that it brought you to control this world,” hales said. 
once technology progressed enough to allow for more com­plex games, the scenarios be­gan to center more and more around nuclear warfare, hales said. he said this shift can be attributed to the post-cold war paranoia of an atomic holocaust. 
The goal of the game “balance of power,” released in 1985, was to avoid nuclear war at all cost by developing a disarmament model, hales said. 
“it hoped to awaken a gen­eration of youthful techno­crats that would someday be members of the war college,” he said. 
hales said if a player lost “balance of power,” a mes­sage was displayed on the screen instead of a gory virtual explosion. 
“There was a fear that games were actually rewarding fail­ure with spectacular effects of explosions and death,” he said. 
hales, an avid gamer him­self, recognizes the tantaliz­ing effect of this sort of reward 


for failure. he said at the end 
“I do not believe the virtual community is, in fact, an impoverished one ... I honestly believe that it’s a quite rich one.” 
Peter Bacon Hales 
professor emeritus at 
University of Illinois-Chicago 
of the “call of duty: modern warfare 4” gameplay scenario, the character controlled by the gamer dies after an atom­ic bomb strike to a display of exciting, visually stimulating graphics that give the gamer an adrenaline rush. 
“The first time i got to that point in modern warfare, the hair on the back of my neck stood up, you hear your own heart beat stop, you go into 
tachycardia  and  you  fall,”  
hales  said.  “it’s  absolutely  
shocking.”  

hales said the sense of re­ward that comes from fictional death and destruction raises questions about the morality of war-inspired video games. The consequences of actions the player makes most clearly indicate the values the game promotes, he said. 
“The consequences are not moral; they are deliberately flat,” hales said. 
hales said this means gam­ers do not sense what is right or wrong, but rather, simply care about what will come next. another controversy raised by the rapid increase of video game popularity is the culture of online communities, hales said. 
he said he recognizes three different phenomena in these online social circles. 
There is a group concerned with achieving immense prow­ess, proving that they have fig­ured out the game better than anyone else, hales said. he said another group fights for strategic supremacy, vying for a sort of intellectual respect comparable to that given to chess players. 
“[For this second group], it’s not about killing, it’s about checkmate in 12 moves,” hales said. 
hales said the third group seeks to create genuine communities. 
“i do not believe the virtual community is, in fact, an im­poverished one,” hales said. i honestly believe that it’s a quite rich one.” 
Contact Anne Arnason at aarnason@nd.edu 

st. mary’s student becomes google ambassador 
By KELLY RICE 
news writer 
saint mary’s junior anna ulliman will bring new tech­nological gadgets to cam­pus by serving as a google student ambassador (gsa) this academic year. 
ulliman said the gsa pro­gram enables google to partner with academic insti­tutions to promote the use of technology at the grassroots level. 
“i applied for the position as google student ambassador in June of this past summer,“ she said. “soon after, my application was reviewed, and i found out i was going to have the amazing oppor­tunity to serve as a google student ambassador at saint mar y’s.” 
ulliman said her role as a sgsa is to help students and faculty discover how google tools can improve collaboration and increase performance. 
“as a google student ambassador, it is my respon­sibility to make saint mary’s a more connected campus through the use of google,“ 

paid adverTisemenT 

she said. “i’m working with the college’s administrators, clubs and organizations, pro­fessors and students to do just that.” 
last month, ulliman ven­tured to the west coast to attend a summit hosted by google. she worked with members of the google team-wand learned how to take on her new role as aagsayas ef­fectively as possible. 
“in august, i attended the gsa summit in mountain view, califa, during which i collaborated with other gsas and googlers to start generating ideas about how to fulfill my position as gsa this year,” ulliman said 
“My biggest goal is to make Saint Mary’s an even better community with the help of Google.” 
Anna Ulliman 
Google Student Ambassador 
ulliman said saint mary’s is an excellent place to imple­ment technological changes and adjustments because it constantly trieg to improve for the students and faculty. 
“my biggest goal is to make saint mary’s an even bet­ter community with the help of google,” ulliman said. some specifics that will help me achieve that goal include fun campus events, techni­cal info sessions, working with clubs to increase the efficiency of their organiza­tions and collaborating with administrators. 
Contact Kelly Rice at krice02@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


this discussion that the bill that 
Senator 
we passed as a senate improves 
conTinued From page 1 

border security and improves and he thought that it would 
our ability to track people on be a great way for me to con-
exit and entry, it improves our tinue my public service — he 
e-verify system so that employ-knew how much i loved being 
ers can make sure they’re hir­attorney general,” chiesa said. 
ing people who should be here “i thought this would be a won-
and who are eligible to work,” derful thing to do, you can have 
chiesa said. “in every measur­a big impact even in the four 
able way it improves things, or five months i’m here, and 
and i’m in a state where 450,000 once [my family] was comfort-
people will be affected by this able with [the appointment] we 
… ultimately this decision for made the decision the next day.” 
me was one that made sense. it 
A life of service 

made sense i thought nation­chiesa, who graduated from 
ally, and i certainly thought it notre dame in 1987, became 
made sense for the people of the first republican to hold a 
new Jersey.” new Jersey senate seat since 
sen. bob menendez, chiesa’s 1982. his tenure will be the 
new Jersey counterpart in fourth shortest of the 65 sena-the senate and chair of the tors in new Jersey’s history. senate committee on Foreign 
his desire to give some of relations, has vocally sup-his life to public service was notre dame education and community.” hard after human traffickers.” ported action in syria and strengthened during his time the sense of community stay still, chiesa said he never ex-“To the extent that now that worked with the white house at notre dame, chiesa said. with you for your entire life … pected to hold elected office. i’m in the legislative branch, i to develop a bill to submit 
“There is a faith-based com-i think that is a fundamental “my last elected office can help strengthen the laws or for congressional approval. ponent to your education here characteristic of people who was senior class president bring more awareness to these Though the senate shelved the that is with you when you get graduate from notre dame.” in high school, so i did not topics, that’s what i would like resolution to authorize the use there, and further nurtured Working for New Jersey expect to be here,” he said. to do.” of military force in syria after while you’re there,” chiesa after he graduated from notre Limited time in office chiesa said he also plans to president obama’s Tuesday said. “you can tell it’s an atmo-dame with a b.b.s. in account-chiesa will serve as one of continue advocating for his national address, a sept. 11 sphere of community. it’s a col-ing, chiesa received his J.d. new Jersey’s senators until state to receive the aid it needs washington post article quot­lege atmosphere where people from the catholic university the state’s october 16 special from the federal government to ed menedez and several other are always looking to help each of america and then went into election, which will allow the fully recover from hurricane leaders who indicated talks other, looking to improve the private practice. Following 10 people to elect a new senator. sandy. about potential military action lives of people they don’t know years in private practice and because chiesa said he will not “The governor has done a would continue should the use in many different ways.” seven years as a u.s. prosecu-run in the special election, he great job, the state is well on its of force be deemed necessary. 
“i think anybody who enjoys tor, chiesa said christie asked will have served approximately way,” chiesa said. “but, a lot of communications direc­and admires the kind of thing him to serve as his campaign four months in office. the money comes from the fed-tor Ken lundberg said chiesa that notre dame stands for, counsel. serving in the senate for a eral government so i’m going is “unannounced” on how he the best way you can trans-“when he was elected, he relatively short time period pro-to continue to push as hard as intends to vote on a resolu­late that professionally is to made it clear to me he wanted moted chiesa to choose several i can for new Jersey while i’m tion regarding syria, though commit some part of your life me to be a part o his adminis-issues to be his focus, he said. here.” he has attended several classi­
— and some people commit tration, and that he wanted to “The issue i’m going to pick because he jumped into a po-fied briefings, met with white their entire careers — to public pick the role i could best serve while i’m here is human traf-sition others have held for years house officials and other mem­service.” in,” chiesa said. “it was a very ficking,” he said. “i’m going to and been prepared to take for bers of congress. 
chiesa said he feels vari-easy decision for me — he is try to work to bring awareness an even longer time, chiesa after his term concludes, ous aspects of the notre dame one of my closest friends, i have to it, to strengthen our laws in said he had some work to do to chiesa said he plans to reenter community instill a desire to tremendous respect for him as any way that i can, and to try prepare himself to weigh in on private life to lessen the strain serve in its students. a person and professionally and to continue as i did as attorney the issues under consideration his work has put on his family. 
“The academic training you i knew that he was exactly what general to communicate the in the senate. Though he now contributes to get as a student, but just im-new Jersey needed to pull itself importance of combating hu-“when i came down here the formation of national poli­portantly the community that out of a horrendous situation, man trafficking.” during my first three weeks cy, chiesa said attending notre you live with: my friends, my both in terms of the financial This focus resulted from his in-session i was really focused dame was one of the “biggest professors, the people at the picture of the state and moral, experiences as attorney general on learning everything i could thrills” of his life. university [emphasize the val-generally.” and his time at notre dame, about [the immigration bill], “i remember it like it was yes­ue of service],” chiesa said. “Fr. working in state government chiesa said.  and then making my judg-terday — it was march of 1983 hesburgh was president when positions, chiesa said he en-“part of your education at ment at the end of the process,” that i got my acceptance letter, i was there, and he was some-joyed being able to work toward notre dame and part of our chiesa said. “That was some-really it was just a thrill,” chiesa body who gave his entire life to tangibly improving new Jersey faith teaches us that you have thing i had to get up to speed said. “i had a hard time believ­other people through his priest-for its residents. an obligation when you’re in a on, because they’ve been de-ing i was going to have a chance hood and through his service “as a public prosecutor you position to help somebody else bating it here in the senate for to go to school there … i think to the university — i admired have a huge impact on your out, to help them out,” chiesa months.” anybody who went to school him greatly and continue to state and on your community,” said. “For me as attorney gen-chiesa said he voted in fa-there is very lucky, and my view admire him greatly.”“if you’re chiesa said. “i never thought i eral that meant i targeted vor of the bill because he felt it is that i will do anything i can going to try in some small way was going to be attorney gen-people who would pick on vul-would have a very positive ef-to help the university.” to emulate that kind of behav-eral, but you have that chance nerable victims. so, i went hard fect on the nation and on new ior then you want to try to get and a tremendous opportunity after child pornographers, i Jersey. Contact Nicole Michels at into public service. i think the to impact your state and your went hard after gangs, i went “it was my feeling at the end of nmichels@nd.edu 
Myths 
conTinued From page 1 
steps, contracting pneumonia or strep throat and dying soon after. 
“The chapter in the book, of course, is the history of the ghost stories, so naturally there is con­flict because the stories are all over the place,” pilkinton said.
 according to the book, the first mention of a ghost in washington hall was published during the 1920-1921 school year in scholastic magazine. 
however, the connection be­tween a ghost in the building and the late george gipp didn’t appear until the 1926 edition of The dome, in which a student, pio montenegro, charged that he saw gipp’s ghost riding up the steps of washington hall on a white horse. 
“we don’t hear anything about george gipp until five years after he died, and then it is on a white horse charging up the (now gone) south steps,” pilkinton said. “much later, the ‘locked out of his dorm’ story emerges.” 
pilkinton said he believes the “ghost” of washington hall was nothing more than a prank a few students played on their classmates. 
ron grisoli, programs coordi­
“One thing is for sure — the legend of the ghost is alive and well.” 
Ron Grisoli 
Washington Hall programs 
director 
nator for washington hall, said he appreciates the addition of the ghost story to notre dame lore. 
“i certainly welcome the tradi­tion of his ghost here and all the amusing stories of his haunt­ings,” grisoli said. “it’s funny to sit here in my office and listen to the tour guides as they pass the building. each time, the ghost story is a bit different. one thing is for sure — the legend of the ghost is alive and well.” 
grisoli said he thinks if the ghost of gipp were to haunt any location on campus, it would be notre dame stadium, where gipp still holds a handful of records. 
“i’ve seen the player’s lock­er room,” grisoli said. “it’s a beautiful place, perfectly suited for a ghost.”  pilkinton and grisoli said washington hall’s age and eccentricities in design may help perpetuate the ghost story. 
“old buildings always have things that go creak in the night,” pilkinton said. 
grisoli, for his part, said he doesn’t believe in ghosts, either. 
“well, i believe in the holy spirit, but he is usually next door in the basilica [of the sacred heart],” he said. “does that count?” 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 



Floods devastate Colo. 
Associated Press 
lyons, colo. — heavy rains sent walls of water crashing down mountain­sides Thursday in colorado, cutting off remote towns, forcing the state's largest university to close and leav­ing at least three people dead across a rugged landscape that included areas black­ened by recent wildfires. 
after a rainy week, up to eight more inches fell in an area spanning from the wyoming border south to the foothills west of denver. Flooding extended all along the Front range mountains and into some cities, in­cluding colorado springs, denver, Fort collins, greeley, aurora and boulder. 
numerous roads and high­ways were washed out or made impassable by floods. Floodwaters poured into homes, and at least a few buildings collapsed in the torrent. 
boulder county appeared to be hardest hit. sheriff Joe pelle said the town of lyons was completely cut off be­cause of flooded roads, and residents were huddling to­gether on higher ground. although everyone was be­lieved to be safe, the deluge was expected to continue into Friday. 
“it is not an ordinary di­saster,” pelle said. “all the preparation in the world ... it can’t put people up those 
“It is not an ordinary disaster. All the ordinary preparation in the world ... it can’t put people up thos canyons while these walls of water are coming down” 
Joe Pelle 
sheriff 
canyons while these walls of water are coming down.” 
Jason stillman, 37, said he and his fiancee were forced to evacuate their home in lyons at about 3 a.m. after a nearby river began to over­flow into the street. 
stillman, who was stay­ing at a friend's house on higher ground, went back to his neighborhood in the afternoon and saw how fast-moving water had over­turned cars and swept away homes at a nearby trailer park. 

“From what i could tell, my house is sitting in class 3 rapids,” he said. when he re­turns, “it’s going to be a so­bering experience.” 
by mid-afternoon, some high-clearance vehicles were on their way to the town, where the red cross said about 200 people sought shelter in an elementary school. national guard res­cue helicopters were ground­ed by fog and low visibility. 
To the north, residents along the big Thompson canyon in larimer county, scene of the deadliest flash flood in state history, were also evacuated. The big Thompson river flooded in 1976 after about a foot of rain fell in just four hours, killing 144 people. 
water roaring across u.s. highway 36 south of lyons prevented residents from leaving the crestview sub­division, so howard wachtel arranged for someone to meet him at a roadblock for a ride to a gas station. he needed more gasoline to keep his generator running so he could pump water out of his basement. 
“This is more like some­thing out of the bible. i saw one of my neighbors build­ing an ark,” he joked, over the sound of the rushing water. 
Firefighters performed a daring rescue of two men trapped in vehicles in rock creek, east of boulder. after rushing water collapsed a section of road, rescuers used a raft to reach the men, broke the car windows and lifted them to safety. 
some of the flooding was exacerbated by wild­fire “burn scars” that have spawned flash floods all summer in the mountains. That was particularly true in an area scarred by fire in 2010 near the tiny commu­nity of Jamestown and an­other near colorado springs’ waldo canyon that was hit in 2012. 
rain is normally soaked up by a sponge-like layer of pine needles and twigs on the for­est floor. but wildfires in­cinerate that layer and leave a residue in the top layer of soil that sheds water. a rela­tively light rain can rush down charred hillsides into streambeds, picking up dirt, ash, rocks and tree limbs along the way. narrow can­yons aggravate the threat. 
at the university of colorado, about 400 students in a dorm were evacuated, and administrators can­celed classes at least through Friday. about a quarter of the school's buildings have some kind of water damage. 
one person was killed when a structure collapsed in the tiny town of Jamestown northwest of boulder. another person drowned in northern boulder as he was trying to help a woman who was swept away in a torrent of water, authorities said. boulder county sheriff's cmdr. heidi prentup said the woman is still missing. 
To the south, colorado springs police conducting flood patrols found the body of 54-year-old danny davis in Fountain creek on the west side of the city. 
weather service meteorolo­gist bob Kleyla said a 20-foot wall of water was reported in left hand canyon north of boulder, and a firefighter radi­oed he was trapped in a tree. he said rescuers trying to get to him were initially blocked by debris. 
“we did access him. They put him onto a sled and were able to take him across the creek, so he is getting treat­ment at this point,” prentup said. 
The creek is usually “just a trickle,” said nearby resi­dent carm say. “you can walk across it and have fun. now, as you can see, it’s hitting houses.” 
at least one earthen dam gave way southeast of estes park, the gateway to rocky mountain national park. water levels could rise downstream as authorities release more water to ease pressure on dams. with de­bris piling up near bridges, downstream farming ar­eas including Fort lupton, dacono and plateville were also at risk. 
in rural morgan county, authorities urged ranchers to move cattle to higher ground as the mountain rains emp­tied onto the plains. 
rain showers and thun­derstorms were expected through the night, with some storms capable of dumping an inch of water in 30 min­utes, the weather service warned. 

molasses spills into honolulu harbor 
Associated Press 
honolulu — officials re­sponding to a spill of 1,400 tons of molasses in hawaii waters plan to let nature clean things up, with boat crews collecting thousands of dead fish to deter­mine the extent of environmen­tal damage. 
The crews already have col­lected about 2,000 dead fish from waters near honolulu harbor, and they expect to see more in the coming days and possibly weeks, said gary gill, deputy director of the hawaii department of health. 
“our best advice as of this morning is to let nature take its course,” gill told reporters at a news conference at the harbor, where commercial ships passed through discolored, empty-looking waters. 
a senior executive for the shipping company responsible, matson navigation co., said it was taking responsibility but hadn't planned ahead of time for the possibility of a spill. 
The state didn’t require matson to plan for the possibil­ity, gill and a state department of Transportation spokeswom­an said. 
vic angoco, senior vice presi­dent for matson's pacific op­erations, said the company had been loading and transport­ing molasses at the harbor for about 30 years. 
angoco said the company re­grets what happened. 
“we take pride in being good stewards of the land, good stew­ards of the ocean, and in this case, we didn't live up to our standards,” he said. “and we are truly sorry for that, we're truly sorry for that.” 
more fish have died because of the spill than in any other in­cident in the area, gill said. 
The fish are dying because the high concentration of mo­lasses is making it difficult for them to breathe, said health department spokeswoman Janice okubo. 
The spill occurred monday in an industrial area where matson loads molasses and other goods for shipping. The harbor is west of downtown honolulu, about five miles west of the popular waikiki tourist area. 
Three days after the spill, several patches of discolored water were clearly visible from across the harbor where matson operates, and fish were tougher than usual to see. 
John hernandez, owner of a fish broker across the harbor from matson, said he believed it would take years for the waters to restore. 
“mother nature and the earth seems to always have to deal with our (mistakes),” hernandez said. 
downstream from the spill, workers collected dead fish in nets at a small sailing club, placing them in plastic bags and blue plastic tubs. about a half-mile away, recreational fishers tried their luck despite warn­ings from state officials to avoid eating fish from the waters. 
angoco said matson tempo­rarily patched the hole and the pipe stopped leaking Tuesday morning. The company was working on a permanent fix. 
he said the leak occurred in a section of pipe that was not normally used. but he declined to say how the molasses got into the section of pipe where it eventually leaked, saying the company was still investigating. 
gill said the molasses seeped through a section that was sup­posed to have been sealed off, into the abandoned part of the pipe and eventually to the water. 
as much as 233,000 gallons of molasses leaked into the harbor. That's equivalent to what would fill about seven rail cars or about one-third of an olympic-sized swimming pool. 
underwater video taken by honolulu television station hawaii news now showed dead fish, crabs and eels scattered along the ocean floor of the har­bor and the water tinted a yel­lowish brown. 
The state has been docu­menting the collected fish and keeping them on ice for possible testing. officials were also col­lecting water samples. The data will allow the department to es­timate the duration and sever­ity of the contamination. 
matson ships molasses from hawaii to the mainland about once a week. molasses is made at hawaii's last sugar plantation, run by hawaiian commercial & sugar co. on maui. 


Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 




Quiet 
Meghan Thomassen 
managing editor 

about a year ago, i went on a silent retreat at moreau seminary with a very good friend. For us, that’s crazy. more than two days of silent meditation and prayer, cut off from the news world, from the constant social interactions of cam­pus, from Facebook, from phone calls home? no way. Talking was the way my friend and i expressed ourselves and became close in the first place. 
but the idea of a blank weekend, an unscripted slate for my mind to work out all the ideas and problems i knew were knotted up in there, called to me. 
i’m not going to lie. it was weird. my friend and i lived in separate bedrooms, would see each other in the long empty hallways and could only smile and wave. The hours stretched out for eternity. i took three or four naps a day and walked around the lakes at all hours. i felt like my capacity to form words was completely lost. 
what i gained from this retreat, howev­er, is ineffable. replacing to-do lists and worries was a singular stream of thought, intermingled with prayer. my actions became extremely deliberate. i chose my words very carefully when i debriefed with the sister running the retreat. 
The hours i spent at the seminary were some of the most precious hours of my life. 
The afternoon spent gazing from my room at the lakes, telling time by the bells tolling from the basilica, the feeling of cool marble beneath my feet as i walked to the chapel in the morning, the sensa­tion of lightness and carefree joy when i went to sleep — all of these experiences are unparalleled. 
it’s been a year, and so much has hap­pened since that blessed weekend. i’ve studied abroad in london, worked a sum­mer internship and started looking for a job. although these events were both deeply rewarding and exciting, every time i tried to dig down for that serenity and peace of mind again, i would fail. 
i’m looking forward to this year’s silent retreat because i’ve lost the ability to be quiet. i’ve lost the ability to turn off the incessant stream of anxious chatter that gets me through the day. and with that, i’ve lost my sense of direction and pur­pose. when i’m unable to be alone with myself, i’m unable to discern which path i should take, how to pursue the topics that i find engaging, and how to get to know other people better and take care of them. 
i can’t stop you from being busy. i’d be a hypocrite if i tried to stop you from want­ing to be involved in more things than you can handle. but i can tell you that this nov. 8, i’ll be at the seminary trying to learn how to be sincere in my prayers, how to be purposeful when i am pulled in many directions, and how to be alone in my thoughts and be quiet in the storm. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 

it’s a Friday night. you’re in a dorm room on campus, enjoying a few beers. you step into the hallway to catch up with a friend. suddenly, a resident assistant (ra) turns the corner and sees you, drink in hand. and you are definitely not 21. 
what happens next? 

some students might be able to escape back into the dorm room with nothing more than a disapproving look or a curt word. some students might meet with their rector and then see the incident evaporate. and, in the past, some would be referred straight to the office of residence life. 
The disparities between strict residence halls and lenient residence halls are obvious to most notre dame students, and the consequences of violating the university standards of conduct vary according to when and where a student is caught. 
getting “res-lifed” was an involved, stressful and lengthy process that could have affected a student for the rest of his or her college career. a large portion of that stress was the result of uncertainties in the disciplinary process of residence like. students worried about the severity of their punishments, how their parents might be involved, if their scholarships would be at risk and what potential employers might see on students’ records. The biggest issue found in the two-year review was the inconsistency of how situa­tions were handled. This harkens back to a disparity in each dorm’s disciplinary process. 
enter the office of community standards, the university’s response to these discrepancies as a result of a two-year research project. 
The goal of the newly titled office of community standards (ocs) is to reconfigure the previously arbitrary disciplinary process so it is more consistent, transparent, accessible and formative for all students, regardless of the dorm in which they live or where they choose to socialize. 
while the university standards of conduct all notre dame students must follow did not change under ocs, the university said its goal was for the disciplinary process to change so that it showed a greater focus on holistic student development. 
during the research period preceding this transition, the university found “procedural inconsistencies with which cases were referred to the office of residence life,” accord­ing to the ocs website. 
before, some rectors could handle small disciplinary problems “in dorm,” while other rectors could refer their residents directly to residence life. a student’s fate de­pended on the personalities and preferences of the rector, assistant rectors (ars) and ras. 
now, under the new ocs procedure, every rector is re­quired to document the outcome of every meeting. 
while the reporting criteria for each dorm will be more standardized through ocs, the university said the motiva­tion behind this transition is for the outcomes of student disciplinary infractions to be customized to each student, in order to focus on the development and formation of that 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“education is simply the soul of a society as it passes from one generation to another.” 
G.K. Chesterton English author 

student. when a first infraction is reported, the student’s rector handles the case as he or she sees fit. if the student commits subsequent offenses, the situation is escalated to ocs. ocs then decides if the situation calls for a meeting with the rector, a conference with an ocs staff member or a more formal hearing. 
This new process highlights the importance of the rector, the ars and the ras more than ever. in order for this new system to work, the chain of command within each dorm must be consistent. and the natural outcome of that seems to be that dorms known for being too lenient must become stricter, while dorms known for being too harsh must be­come more lenient. 
Furthermore, the rector plays a significant role through ocs because he or she helps decide the outcome of each incident. in the case that ocs decides an infraction should be followed by a meeting, the rector faces the challenge of getting to know his or her resident and fully understanding the context of the infraction in order to productively tailor the outcome to the student. 
The ocs website states formative outcomes might in­clude mandatory attendance at workshops, a required conversation with a university partner or administrator, written apologies by the student to those he or she harmed, restitution and written assignments prompting reflection on the incident. professional referral outcomes might in­clude alcohol screening, alcohol counseling and psycho­logical assessment, according to the ocs website. 
in theory, this transition is positive. equality for all stu­dents in all residence halls is a good thing, and no one will protest a move toward more transparency. The editorial board agreed that all students should be held to the same sets of standards and that increased transparency and cus­tomized punishments will hopefully reduce the psychologi­cal wear and tear on each student throughout the process. 
The editorial board, however, was split about whether or not this new system would actually result in the same con­sequence for the same action by students who share similar standing in the community, no matter the location of the incident. we were also divided about whether or not esca­lating incidents to ocs will positively affect the living en­vironment on campus. There is still an opportunity for the disciplinary process to be inconsistent if rectors, ars and ras unequally report incidents according to their prefer­ences and personalities. The community will need to invest a lot of trust in members of hall staffs, who are charged with fairly discerning which incidents to report. 
we know the safety, health and well-being of each stu­dent are the university’s highest priorities. The rules and regulations that protect students from harassment, assault, theft, emotional distress and academic dishonesty are part of preserving the notre dame community, and it is only right that everyone is equally required to follow them and equally punished for transgressions. 
under the new office of community standards, each stu­dent will experience equal treatment throughout the disci­plinary process, participate in the punishments tailored to their needs and exit the proceedings as a better member of the community. 



a method to the madness 
Brian Kaneb 
viewpoint columnist 

it would be an understatement to say america and russia have butted heads on syria. america wants to take military action to deter assad from using chemical weapons again, while russia opposes any sort of strike. This much is known, but less so is how the countries plan on reaching their respective goals. with that being said, i think this past week gave us a glimpse into their strategies. 
president obama is aware that he cannot depend on the public to pres­sure him to intervene. The percent of the population that favors military action is merely 36 percent, the lowest preceding any intervention in at least two decades. 
This lack of a mandate has forced our officials to rely on other methods to create the correct conditions for military action. one of these has been the media. secretary of state John Kerry made this clear when he said at a press conference that syria could avoid a strike if it put its chemical weapons cache under international control. 
The media jumped on these re­marks not only because they seemed newsworthy, but also because they seemed impromptu. The state department added to the hoopla by saying Kerry was “making a rhetorical argument about the impossibility and unlikelihood of assad turning over chemical weapons” instead of offer­ing an official proposal. but is he re­ally oblivious to the consequences of his comments? i don’t think so. 
he knew the first procedural vote was going to take place in a couple of days. he knew the whip count, at least in the house, had more congressmen in the “no” or “lean no” category than the necessary amount to block intervention. he knew the resolution would not pass, so he looked for a way to buy more time without appearing desperate. 

he found it on monday. Kerry could not have thought the idea would be implemented — syria could not col­lect all of its chemical weapons in just a week — but he could have expected a response from the russians. he got it on Tuesday, when russian Foreign minister sergey lavrov said russia supported syria surrendering its chemical weapons to international control. This gave the story new legs. it developed into enough of a distrac­tion to delay the vote, with senator harry reid doing so Tuesday until further notice. 
yet, lost in this is russia and its plans to prevent intervention. This is not because it is inactive, but because its goals are in line with those of america right now. both want to de­lay military action for the short term. nobody knows what to expect when the superpowers turn to the long term again, but both are bent on using the media in the meantime. 
if you need more proof, just look at the op-ed prime minister vladimir putin wrote for the new york Times on Thursday in which he said he “felt the need to speak directly to the american people and their political leaders.” when russian politicians start sounding like american politi­cians, you know they’re in a war of words. 
Brian Kaneb is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at bkaneb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Women in leadership at Notre Dame 
Richard Klee 
catholic characteristics 

recently announced was the theme of this year’s notre dame Forum: women in leadership. The university’s press release anout the Forum notes relevance for the na­tion and the world, but its panel members and the description of the topic are not related directly to the university. This topic should be fo­cused on notre dame. at our lady’s university, women are shamefully underrepresented in leadership. 
The statistics should be provided at the outset. among full professors at notre dame, according to a 2008 report, women compose 13 percent. with that said, i will focus on ad­ministrators and trustees here and discuss the underrepresentation of women among faculty and students in another column. 
among executive administrators, women number five out of 22, or 23 percent. among deans, only two of eight are female. among vice presi­dents in the provost’s office, two out of six are female. only 14 percent of departmental chairs, or five out of 35, are women. a woman has never been provost or executive vice president at notre dame. some administrative divisions have more instances of fe­male leaders than others. The presi­dent’s own office, for example, has women well represented. but among executives directly reporting to the executive vice president, for example, only one out of 10 is a woman. 
The higher one looks at elected leadership at notre dame, the more poorly represented women are. among the board of Trustees, 15 of 50, or 30 percent, are women — the only leadership level besides the vice presidents of the provost’s office at which women compose more than a quarter of the membership. among trustees emeriti, who may attend trustees’ meetings and serve on com­mittees but not vote, only five of 49, or 10 percent, are female. and at the highest level, that of the board of Fellows, but one of the 12 seats, or 8 percent of the total, is held by a wom­an. according to statute, six must be held by holy cross priests. The other six are to be held by laypersons. 
For a community of priests, broth­ers and sisters envisioned as a family by its founder, blessed basil marie moreau, it is strange that no female religious of the congregation of the holy cross are among the trustees or fellows, as there are holy cross priests among the trustees of st. mary’s college. it is strange, too, that the female laity is represented as merely 17 percent of the lay fellows. The presidency of the board, which may be held by a layperson, has al­ways been occupied by a man. 
one need only glance at ivy league schools and well regarded state uni­versities to find executive and elected leadership with women better rep­resented. harvard’s overseers have 18 women among 32 positions, or 56 percent; princeton’s trustees are 41 percent female; five of michigan’s eight regents, or 62 percent, are fe­male, just to name a few. 

notre dame should be promoting women to leadership for greater rea­sons than keeping up with harvard and michigan. To be more precise, women are proposed by the church for leadership not because of rea­sons or causes. women are qualified for leadership ipso facto as human beings, created and redeemed and loved by god, and gifted together with men by god for stewardship of the planet and the church. The church does not propose the ad­vancement of women at every level of society as a fruit of peace or a flower of justice. The leadership of women is a precondition for peace, of the root and trunk, as it were, of the tree of justice. 
There are many benefits envi­sioned by the church for a society fully integrated with women at every level of leadership. among them is a greater respect for human dignity. The church has in its memory, after all, the scandal of the cross, from which the male disciples of christ largely fled. The ones who remained to console Jesus, be sorrowful, and fulfill religious precepts regarding burial of the dead — in brief, the ones who did not flee when Jesus’ social stock plummeted, but offered acts of respect and love for his hu­man dignity — were mostly women. 
The gospel of mark notes there were so many women present that it does not name them all. holy women, out of repentance, mourning and grief, became the first apostles of the res­urrection. it was from these women, faithful to god and to human dignity in every act at the end of Jesus’s life, that the men learned of a life un­imaginably new in christ. 
at an american catholic university where the diversity of catholicism and america is not visible, where the “equal” proportion between students from wealthy families to those from poor families is shockingly artificial, where the spouses and children of graduate students have no affordable access to medical insurance, where the shining tradition of betting on the fighting immigrant has dimmed in recent decades, and where women are outnumbered by men in leader­ship three to one among officers, nine to one among full professors, and 11 to one on the board of Fellows 
— the university of notre dame needs more leaders who see human dignity. our lady’s university needs more female leaders to show us new life in christ. 
Richard Klee is a doctoral candidate in theology and an undergraduate alumnus of the University of Notre Dame. He can be contacted by email at rklee2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By GABRIELA LESKUR 
scene writer 

i have seen many scary mov­ies. i don’t remember most of them. so i actually can’t say which one i think is scariest. 
instead, i’ll share the two scary movies i remember most—partly because they were scary, but mostly because they were funny. 
“Tremors”: have you heard of it? if you haven’t, i’m not surprised. This movie brought horror to my best friends and i in middle school. something about the atrocious spe­cial effects and Kevin bacon (mmmm, bacon) made the idea of giant worms coming out from the ground to eat ev­eryone pretty earth-shattering (pun intended). 
“paranormal activity”: it was valentine’s day. 
imagine, if you will, the per­fect romantic evening: dinner and a movie. it’s very hard to go wrong with that time-tested equation. and yet… 
Two 15-year-olds walk to a restaurant — since they are not yet able to drive — and sit down for a lovely meal. The conversation flows, as do the refills of their nonalcoholic drinks. They end their night out with pie, oreo pie, of course, because there is no better way to show your undying love for someone. 
Then, the movie portion of the evening begins. normal people would choose a typi­cal rom-com, preferably with sandra bullock. however, we were children. children who decided to watch “paranormal activity.” emphasis on children. 
what followed was approxi­mately two hours worth of mild fear, followed by two weeks of not being able to sleep without the light on. 
i do not claim that “Tremors” or “paranormal activity” are the scariest movies i have ever seen. 
i only claim two things. 
First, that giant worms com­ing up from hell to eat me would be terrifying and a pretty bad way to go. and second, that i find it hilarious to this day that i watched “paranormal activity” on my first romantic valentine’s day. if that’s not scary, i’m not sure what is. 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 

shout-out to my older brothers for this one. when i was maybe 10 or 11 years old, the coolest thing in the world was watching the movies my older brothers would watch. it’s little sur­prise that “die hard,” “con air” and “The rock” rank in my top 10 movies of all time. 
but my sneaky film watching hab­its struck back one day in the form of david Fincher’s suspense thriller “se7en.” i remember the opening cred­its distinctly, mainly because they showed up in my nightmares for a good 10 years after i first saw the film. The weird, glaring white text for the cast and crew names was only outdone in creepiness by the haunting, jumping shots of someone developing film. i’ve never been more scared of photos in my life. 
By MIKO MALABUTE  By ALLIE  TOLLAKSEN  
scene writer  scene writer  
The movie was “signs,” the alien film  “don’t look now” is a 1973 thriller starring  
by m. night shyamalan, where a not-so­ donald sutherland (in all his 70s moustache glo­ 
happy-go-lucky country family headed by  ry) and Julie christie as John and laura baxter, a  
a former minister, played by mel gibson,  married couple with children. The movie opens  
encounters mysterious crop circles that  with an absolutely horrifying opening scene:  
gibson refuses to acknowledge as signs of  while John and laura sit inside their home, their  
extraterrestrial life. mel gibson’s ever pres- daughter falls into a pond. when John discov­ 
ent facial expression of subdued pain and  ers what has happened, he runs to the scene.  
worry made me anxious and uncomfort­ his attempt to save her is shown in slow motion  
able throughout the movie.  and accompanied by no music, magnifying the  
The truly worst scene is easily the  scene’s subsequent heartbreak. as the opening  
scene where gibson channels his inner  credits begin to roll, it becomes clear that the  
braveheart and goes into a pantry while  daughter has drowned.  
the aliens are in the next room, which is  To deal with the loss of their child and escape  
separated only by a locked door. gibson  their old life, the couple takes a trip to venice.  
sees his reflection in a knife and forms the  but even in venice, thoughts of their lost child  
brilliant idea of finding out what the visi­ return quickly when a terrifying psychic wom­ 
tors look like by sliding the knife under- an tells laura that she has had visions of her  
neath the door. he’s not able to get a visual  daughter. soon after, John begins seeing a fig- 
after a few moments of trying, makes as if  ure around the city wearing the red raincoat  
to leave, and then has the nerve to come  his daughter was wearing when she drowned.  
back to the door, get back on the ground  The film becomes a full-fledged psychological  
and try one more time. This time, a for- thriller made even more frightening when it is  
eign hand lunges underneath the door,  discovered that a killer is on the loose in venice.  
and gibson reacts just in time to cut off the  sutherland acts the part of John so wonder­ 
alien’s fingers.  fully, especially in that first scene, that you can’t  
perhaps it wasn’t the sight of fingers, hu­ help but find yourself completely submerged  
man or not, being cut off that made such  in the story and unraveling of the two mourn- 
a scene the “worst,” but rather, if i had to  ing parents. The film is also edited in a way that  
put a finger on it (pun intended), how  jumps around, confusing the audience to cre­ 
little gibson’s facial expression changed  ate even more suspense, and the combination  
throughout the entire scene — or better yet,  of the venice setting, bizarre small roles and  
throughout the entire movie. yes, indeed,  1970s film aesthetic somehow makes “don’t  
it was gibson’s withstanding look of slight  look now” one of the creepiest movies ever. but  
nausea and anxiety that really scarred my  nothing can prepare you for the climax of the  
young mind. The concept of aliens and the  film, when sutherland’s character finally ap­ 
suspense that shyamalan impressively  proaches the figure that has been haunting him.  
built up surrounding the aliens only made  i won’t give anything away, but i will say that i  
things worse.  can never see a red raincoat the same way again.  

and it only got worse from there. here’s the guy from “shawshank redemption,” so i think i should be safe, but no; he’s solv­ing gruesome murders based on the seven deadly sins. luckily, thanks to my catholic grade school education, i knew enough about the seven deadly sins to be scared out of my pants. 
by the time Kevin spacey shows up in the police station at the end, i almost committed the greatest sin of any kid try­ing to prove he’s tougher than he really is ¾ walking out. but don’t worry; i stuck it out. i wasn’t learned enough in the ways of hollywood storytelling to realize that the worst was yet to come. 
but come it did! whaT’s in The boX?! whaT’s in The boX?! chills. 
By MADDIE DALY 
scene writer 

out of all the scary movies i’ve watched (total of about three, thanks to my jumpi­ness and irrational fears), “paranormal activity 3” takes the prize for scariest. it is the only one of the series i’ve watched, but since it serves as a prequel, i was able to follow along with the plot, at least during the scenes where i had my eyes open. 
now, i do agree that for a good portion of the film, nothing is all that scary in the literal sense. The majority of the film is just a camera panning back and forth in an empty house, which is character dennis’s attempt to catch any evidence of ghost life. most of the time there is nothing, but occasionally the very careful eye will see slight movements, silhouetted figures or, more obviously, furniture moving all over the place for no reason whatsoever. 
There are only about four or five scenes that made me jump, scream and make a fool of myself, but the psychological as­pects of the film are what get to me. any movie with creepy children, clowns or dolls is enough to scare me, so the fact that the two daughters are the ones who are haunted really gave me the creeps. ghosts aside, little kids are creepy with their insistence on invisible friends and convincing conversations with absolutely nothing. 

so, in the movie when the little girls, Kristi and Katie, are constantly talking to the invisible figure, Toby, the parents assume it is an invisible friend — that is, until he begins to terrorize and ransack the house. The peak of terror in the movie occurs at the very end when the grand­mother and her witch coven come out to attack. not going to lie, i may have had a nightmare or two of a bunch of hooded witches slowly chanting their way toward me. 
as far as scary movies go, i give the “paranormal activity” series credit for utilizing actual plots, rather than simply gory, disgusting horror scenes. but, plot aside, “paranormal activity 3” is a pretty terrifying movie. 
The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
managing editor 

it’s Friday the 13th, and tomor­row the debartolo performing arts center (dpac) will host one of the most historically morbid pieces of music ever composed: mozart’s “requiem.” 
viennese composer and musical prodigy wolfgang amadeus mozart died dec. 5, 1791, before he could finish the requiem mass in d minor. mozart was only 35 years old when he succumbed to a painful but short death that involved vomiting and swelling. mozart died convinced he had been poisoned, and he left enor­mous debts for his bereaved wife to handle. 
why he wrote this requiem in the first place is highly contested. popularized by the film “amadeus” (1984), confusion still surrounds mozart’s intentions for this seven-part composition and the identity of its commissioner. 
it is widely accepted that count Franz von walsegg anonymously paid for mozart’s work for the Feb. 14 anniversary of his wife’s death, but another composer, mozart’s pupil, Franz Xavier sussmayr, had a hand in completing the manuscript for performances after mozart’s death. 


The oxford english dictionary defines “requiem” as “a mass for the repose of the souls of the dead.” mozart’s intense and complex mu­sical soul seems to live on in the requiem. 
The music starts with a slow, som­ber vamp that escalates into a com­manding Kyrie sequence. The drums resound with the bassoons in a bit­tersweet dirge. The dramatic cre­scendos and decrescendos make the listeners physically feel the momen­tous loss. whose death exactly the requiem is mourning, however, is unclear. 
in his final days, mozart was ru­mored to have uttered these au­gurous words: 
“i fear i am writing a requiem for myself.” 
The singers for the dpac per­formance include soprano Jessica mccormack, mezzo-soprano Julian bentley, tenor nicholas Fitzer and baritone stephen lancaster. 
The performance starts saturday at 7:30 p.m. in the decio mainstage Theater. The event is free but ticketed. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at                 mthomass@nd.edu 

                  Andrew Gastelum  
editor in chief 

synths are the way to the heart. 
There’s just something about them that make ev­erything better. listening becomes more fun, as does dancing. and bastille has found its place in the up­per echelon of synth heaven with their version of neo­synth pop with their long-awaited debut album “bad blood.” 
bastille did things right on their way to the top. The quartet released music whenever they thought they had something right. song by song, blog by blog, they built buzz by just releasing one solid track after another on their way to opening acts, a glastonbury appearance and eventually a record deal. 
They didn’t hold onto tracks waiting to make a sumo-sized splash or un­til they got a commitment from a major label. They just let it loose across the wild chasm that is myspace and youTube and let the listeners and writers build the buzz. 
speaking of buzz, you will love the buzz of a wide va­riety of vibrant synths that will hover in your head­phones. meanwhile, lead singer dan smith has found just the right tone and touch to glide upon these ear-pleasing synth melodies as if they were on giant, hum-worthy cloud. 
smith drives the songs with his anthemic, soulful hooks that will have any­one wanting to belt out with him. it’s as if the “oooh’s and ahhh’s” of a coldplay cho­rus combined with capital cities’ harmonies. 
The album blasts off with the opening track, “pompeii,” which is the per­fect summation of every­thing that bastille is about. it’s insanely catchy with a contagious chorus scattered with deep “oooh’s” and back and forth synths that pro­vide the perfect backdrop for a song that’s about any­thing you want it to be. 
“bad blood” soon follows in a similar fashion with an added organ and oddly-placed 808s that somehow manage to fit. 
but my absolute favor­ite track of the album is “Flaws.” it’s an anthem to accepting what you still have to work on and rather than looking down upon them, you use that as a positive to continue moving forward. it starts with a se­ries of computer beeps and bops, before smith gets right into the chorus with linger­ing synth riffs awaiting their grand entrance. 

most bastille songs give you conflicting feelings about how you should cat­egorize the song’s mean­ing in passion pit-esque fashion (see “icarus” and “overjoyed”). but that lets you take in the sound and personalize it to what you hear on an individual level. 
“bad blood” is definitely worth the listen. on any oc­casion, take it song by song, just like bastille did to get us to listen. 


“Bad Blood” 
Artist: Bastille Record Label: EMI Genre:  Alternative Rock/Electronic 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NFL should count its blessings 

Isaac Lorton 
sports writer 
being the commissioner of a professional sport must be hard. 
no one thought the nFl would have a big­ger disciplinary story after philadelphia eagles quar­terback michael vick’s dog fighting incident or pittsburgh steelers receiver plaxico burress’ leg-shooting shenanigans, but former new england patriots tight end aaron hernandez did not want to be outdone. 
roger goodell must have woken up that morning and started bawling because he had another scandal of mon­strous proportions on his hands. i wouldn’t blame the guy if he did. 
This off-season, all he wanted to do was to write a $765 million check to the nFl players association to settle a head trauma-related lawsuit and get ready for the season, but hernandez stopped that from happening. 
and to add to his stress, not even one week into the season, goodell had to re­view denver broncos line­backer von miller’s driving record because miller does not seem to ever have his license, registration or insur­ance when he is speeding down the roads of colorado. goodell must decide whether or not he needs to punish him further because miller is currently serving a six-game suspension for violating the nFl drug policy. 
goodell has also fined detroit lions defensive tackle ndamukong suh $100,000 for spearing minnesota vikings center John sullivan below the knees. it was definitely a cheap shot, and the league considered suspensions given suh’s questionable his­tory but instead handed out the most substantial player safety-related fine in league history. 
it really has been quite a summer for roger goodell, but what would happen if, let’s say, mlb commissioner bud selig were to take the reins of the nFl? 
imagine that. 
For starters, miller would be playing right now because selig does not have a very good track record when it comes to drug policies. selig would much rather have his players smoking mari­juana than using creams or lozenges or injecting ste­roids, hgh and peds. selig would be thrilled if his play­ers only took adderall like seattle seahawks cornerback richard sherman did. and on top of that, miller has broken the league’s substance abuse policy only once. if selig were the commissioner, miller would have at least two more first-time offenses before he even showed up on the radar of the head office. and even if selig cared about marijuana use in the nFl, it would take him 20 years, multiple scan­dals and a congressional investigation to even set up a viable, standardized drug policy. 
as far as the suh case goes, selig would have fined sullivan for being an in­stigator and kneeing suh in the head. remember in mid-June when the arizona diamondbacks and los angeles dodgers began to brawl and diamondbacks infielder eric hinske was try­ing to break up the fight be­fore he was sucker-punched by dodgers outfielder yasiel puig? well, selig sees things quite differently. hinske was suspended five games for “aggressive actions,” while puig received a minimal fine. based on selig’s thought pro­cess, sullivan should be the one fined for “uncontrolled unawareness.” 
if selig were the commis­sioner, the nFl would still have the $765 million in its pockets. you don’t see selig giving retired pitchers money for all of their Tommy John surgeries and arm injuries. he believes they have already been compensated —what else do they need? selig’s phi­losophy is to just call up the next righty from the bullpen or the minors — either option works — and move on. 
yet the biggest issue selig would have to tackle is the nFl gambling problem. have you heard? seahawks quar­terback russell wilson and san Francisco 49er’s quar­terback colin Kaepernick bet one eyebrow on their upcom­ing game. if both wilson and Kaepernick had played base­ball under selig, they would have lost a shot at the hall of Fame. according to selig, gambling is the worst crime in sports. not only does the public know about the bet, but it also involves each play­er’s own team! selig would have none of that if he were the commissioner of the nFl. 
Thank the sports gods he’s not. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PGA 

Tiger trails snedeker after first round of bmw 
Associated Press 

brandt snedeker was mak­ing so many birdies that even an 18-foot putt looked like a mere tap-in. 
when he finished his amaz­ing run Thursday in the bmw championship, he had seven straight birdies on his card and an 8-under 63 at blustery conway Farms. 
“you get on runs like that, you get excited for the next hole because you know some­thing good is going to hap­pen, because you’re in such a good frame of mind and ev­erything is going in the right direction,” snedeker said. 
in this case, everything was going in — a 15-foot putt from the fringe on the 13th, anoth­er 15-footer on the next hole when he used the blade of his sand wedge to bump the ball out of the short rough, and a 40-footer from the fringe on the 17th stood out to him. 
That gave him a one-shot lead over Zach Johnson in the third Fedex cup playoff event. Tiger woods sounded disgusted with his round of 66, mainly because he had a pair of three-putt bogeys and missed a 4-foot birdie putt over his last five holes. 
“i’m not exactly real hap­py,” woods said. “i played well, and i just didn’t get much out of that round. i missed three little short ones in there and then played the par 5s even par. That’s just not very good.” 
steve stricker, charl schwartzel and Kevin streelman also were at 66. 
The opening round was mainly about the debut of conway Farms, a Tom Fazio design north of chicago which has a blend of strong holes and plenty of birdie op­portunities on par 4s where players hit wedge for their 

FOR RENT 

IRISHCROSSINGS TOWNHOME for rent from ND Alum for 14-15 yr; 4 bdrm/3.5 bath; call/text John 281-635-2019;email john.dimpel@ raymondjames.com 
FOOTBALL RENTAL: Availability for all home games. Email nd-house@ sbcglobal.net 
WANTED 

OKLAHOMA GAME. ND alum seeks 2 tickets. Phone Greg 319-541­2099 or 319-337-2244 
second shot. low scoring was predicted, and snedeker’s round was proof of that. 
but as the wind picked up and shifted directions, the course was far from a pushover. 
rickie Fowler opened with a pair of double bogeys, fol­lowed by a pair of bogeys. he rallied for a 77. rory mcilroy made a double bogey — his ninth of the Fedex cup play­offs — on his second hole, and then three-putted from 4 feet for a triple bogey and stag­gered to a 78. lee westwood, fighting severe pain in his back and ribs, had an 80. 
“There’s a good mixture of really hard holes and really good birdie opportunities. i think that makes for exciting golf,” phil mickelson said af­ter opening with a 70. “That’s why we have such a discrep­ancy in scores.” 
The top 30 players in the Fedex cup after the bmw championship advance to the Tour championship next week and a shot at the $10 million prize. 
westwood is at no. 30 and likely played himself out of a trip to east lake, though he didn’t appear to be healthy enough to play. mcilroy is at no. 41 and all but took himself out of the Tour championship. he needs to finish somewhere around seventh in the 70-man field. his 78 put him in a tie for 66th. 
“it’s going to be a very uphill task,” mcilroy said. “i’ll try to get to even par as quickly as i can.” 
That still might not be enough the way snedeker is playing. 
snedeker is at no. 9 in the Fedex cup and assured of be­ing the first defending Fedex cup champion to make it to the Tour championship. he is trying to move into the top five, for those players have a clear shot at the $10 million bonus — all they have to do is win at east lake no matter what anyone else does. 
he wouldn’t have imagined this kind of round at the start of the day. he didn’t warm up well and didn’t feel good with the putter. snedeker missed the 10th fairway to start his round and had to make an 18-footer for par. he missed the 11th green and had to scramble for par. he missed a good look at birdie from the 12 feet on the next hole. 
The next hour was a blur. 
“when i get going good, i realize it doesn’t happen all the time, so i instantly be­come more aggressive,” he said. “i think being a good putter helps, too, because i don’t really have to hit it three feet eight times in a row. Just got to hit the green sometimes and it’s going to happen. i realize these runs are few and far between, so when i get on one, i try to run as hard as i can for as long as i can.” 
The blustery conditions kept scoring from getting out of hand, and the average score was at 71.3. 
no one had less experience on the course than mickelson, who had some personal is­sues earlier in the week that kept him from playing the pro-am. he didn’t arrive in chicago until wednesday night and had never seen the course until he stood on the first tee Thursday. 
mickelson did not want to talk about what kept him away. when asked if it was a family matter, he said, “everything is fine. i’m here now, i’m ready to play. but i just needed to be a little cau­tious this first round before i attack it tomorrow.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 
Private Voice Lessons for Children and Adults. 574-256-9836 
Music Lessons: Guitar, Bass, Mandolin, Dulcimer, Autoharp, Ukulele. 574-256-9836 
OBSERVER PLAYLIST 
Holy Grail - Jay Z    Blow Me One Last Kiss - Pink    American Girl - Bonnie McKee    Call Me Maybe - Carly Rae Jepsen    We Can’t Stop - Miley Cyrus    Payphone - Maroon 5 
SPORTS QUOTE HISTORY 
Monday marked the two-year an­niversary of the famed David Bennett “dogs and cats” quote. After telling a story of a cat trapped in his house, Bennett, then the head coach at Coastal Carolina, had this to say: “I told our players: you need to be more like a dog! We don’t need a bunch of cats in here — meeeooow! — lookin’ in the mirror. I look gooooood, I got my extra bands on, I got my other shoes — Be a dog! We don’t need no meows, we don’t need no cats. We need more dogs.” 



SMC GOLF 

Belles host O’Brien National Invitational 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
saint mary’s will return to the course sunday for its sec­ond tournament of the season, the highly-contested two-day o’brien national invitational at warren golf course. 
The belles are coming off a successful season debut at the olivet labor day Tee-off in marshall, mich., where they finished third in a field of eight teams with a two-day score of 
672. washington university in st. louis won the event with a score of 628. 
The tournament was belles first-year head coach Kim moore’s initial look at her young team, and she came away pleased with its performance. 
“[The invitational] was a good start,” moore said. some of your players think they could’ve done better, which i’m sure they could’ve, but that’s golf. i was re­ally pleased with the results.” 
Freshman ali mahoney was stellar in her college debut, fin­ishing 21st overall for the week­end with an overall score of 
171. mahoney also shot an 81 on saturday to tie for the belles’ best individual score on the first day. senior captain paige pollak also notched an 81 on saturday and followed that with a career-best 75 on sunday. 
moore lauded pollak’s calm­ing influence on the rest of the team. 
“Just [pollak] being out there is helpful for the entire team,” moore said. “she’s very consis­tent with her ball striking, and it shows at practice. if [her team­mates] are having a bad hole, it really gives them confidence to know that there’s someone like her out there to help the team.” 
even after a strong debut, the belles will look to improve in their second tournament of the season. The o’brien national invitational boasts a daunting roster of opponents, as six of the nine teams in the tourna­ment are ranked in the top 20. included among those teams are no. 3 washington and no. 17 olivet, which both finished above saint mary’s last weekend. 
rather than be intimidated by the high level of competition, the team sees the tournament as an opportunity to improve, moore said. 
“i think going into this tournament … we’re prepared,” moore said. “i think the compe­tition this tournament is going to be a bit stiffer. it’s going to be a challenge for us. hopefully, the way practice has been going will transfer to the golf course.” 
all nine members of the belles team will compete in this weekend’s tournament, giving freshmen courtney carlson and emmie schultz their first exposure to the college game. after a strong week of practice, moore is sure her team won’t repeat the mistakes from its last tournament. 
“short game is always our biggest concern,” moore said. “players can see that when their putting is down, their scores be­gin to drop. we’ve been really been working on minimizing strokes around the green; that’s our point of emphasis for the tournament.” 
The belles face their tough­est challenge yet at the o’brien national invitational at warren golf course, which starts sunday at 11 a.m. and continues monday at 8:30 a.m. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 


NCAA FOOTBALL | TeXas Tech 20, Tcu 10 
Texas Tech upsets No. 24 TCU 
Associated Press 

lubbocK, Texas — Freshman backup quarterback davis webb threw a 19-yard touchdown pass to bradley marquez with 3:48 remain­ing to lead Texas Tech to a 20­10 victory over no. 24 Tcu on Thursday night. 
The score came after the red raiders (3-0, 1-0 big 12) thought they’d scored on a 49-yard Td pass from webb to deandre washington, but he dropped the ball at the half-yard line. an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty took them back to the Tcu 14. Two plays later, webb hit marquez. 
Tcu (1-2, 0-1) scored its only touchdown when b. J. catalon ran in from 17 yards to make it 10-all with 6:28 remaining 
Tcu’s Trevone boykin went 23 for 36 for 194 yards and two interceptions. 
baker mayfield, Texas Tech’s starting quarterback, left the game in the fourth quarter with what appeared to be a leg injury. he went 21 of 40 for one touchdown and 216 yards. he threw three interceptions. 
webb went 3 for 4 for 77 yards and a touchdown. 
“That’s about as ugly as you can win, but we’ll take it,” Texas Tech coach Kliff Kingsbury said. 
ryan bustin made a 37-yard field goal to put the game out of reach with 2:43 remaining. 
The Frogs had their chances. a 69-punt return for an appar­ent touchdown by brandon carter in the fourth quarter was called back after officials ruled he’d signaled for a fair catch. 
carter had another punt re­turn wiped out — a 28-yarder in the third quarter on a clip­ping penalty. 
mayfield threw his third in­terception early in the fourth quarter off a tipped ball and into the hands of derrick Kindred. but Tcu got no points off it when Jaden oberkrom missed wide right on a 55-yard field goal try. 
Tcu put together its first sustained drive of the game early in the second half but got only a field goal to pull within 10-3 with 6:01 remaining in the third quarter. The Frogs looked in good position for another score after carter returned a punt to the red raiders 46. but a clipping penalty by Tcu’s dominic merka moved the ball back to the Tcu 41 and the Frogs failed to get a first down and punted. 
boykin scrambled for a first down on a 30-yard run to the red raiders 32 late in the third quarter, but Jackson richards intercepted his pass shortly af­ter and returned it 20 yards. 
Jace amaro caught nine passes for 97 yards to lead Texas Tech. eric ward, the red raiders’ leading receiver com­ing into the game, went without a catch. he was covered most of the night by Jason verrett, Tcu’s standout defensive back. 
Texas Tech went up 10-0 in the first quarter, but both teams’ second quarters were plagued with penalties and punts by both teams. 
mayfield found Kenny williams in the flat along the near sideline on the red raiders’ initial series, and he picked up some blocks and evaded at least one tackler to score a 50-yard touchdown. after the red raiders stalled at Tcu’s 22 on their third posses­sion, bustin kicked a 39-yard field goal to put Texas Tech up 10-0. 
mayfield threw interceptions in each quarter, but Tcu failed to capitalize on either. boykin was stymied on the ground and through the air and failed to get the horned Frogs going. 
mayfield and the red raiders had chances to build on their lead. They had first downs at the Tcu 29, 49 and 36, but came away without any points. 
MLB | piraTes 3, cubs 1 

locke claims 10th win over cubs 
Associated Press 
piTTsburgh — Jeff locke al­lowed three hits over seven innings to earn his first victory in nearly two months and the pittsburgh pirates beat the chicago cubs 3-1 on Thursday night. 
locke (10-5) struck out five and walked one to help the pirates win their fourth straight as they try to catch first-place st. louis in the nl central. mark melancon worked out of a two-on, none-out jam in the ninth for his 14th save. 
Jordy mercer went 2 for 4 with an rbi double for pittsburgh. marlon byrd and pedro alvarez each added an rbi single. 
chris rusin (2-4) gave up two runs and four hits in seven in­nings for the cubs. 
locke was an all-star in July but hadn’t won since beating cincinnati on July 21. he strug­gled through august and never worked more than 5 2-3 innings in any start as his era rose from 2.11 to 3.23. 
The left-hander stressed he wasn’t fatigued and appeared to find something last week against st. louis, giving up just two earned runs while battling through five innings. he carried it forward against the cubs, who were com­ing off an impressive series win against the reds. 
working both sides of the plate crisply — a hallmark of his stellar first half — locke ran only into minor trouble against the cubs. darnell mcdonald hit a ground-rule double to lead off the third and later scored on an rbi single by starlin castro. otherwise, locke had his way with chicago thanks to more than a little help from his defense. 
First baseman Justin morneau scrambled into shallow right field in the fourth to make a snow-cone catch on mcdonald’s looper. mercer made a spectacular jump throw from deep shortstop to nip donnie murphy in the sixth, and gold glove center fielder andrew mccutchen slid on his belly to cor­ral Junior lake’s sinking liner in the seventh. 
They were the kind of plays locke wasn’t getting during his six-week swoon. They are the kind he’ll have to rely on if the pirates want to emerge from a three-way battle with st. louis and cincinnati with their first nl central title. 

pittsburgh clinched its first win­ning season in 21 years during an exhausting nine-game road trip that concluded wednesday with a three-game sweep of Texas. 

The pirates were given a lengthy ovation when they walked onto the field, as a crowded pnc park in mid-september — a rarity over the last two decades — let a gen­eration of frustration out in 30 sec­onds of pure joy. 
paid adverTisemenT 




BOSTON MARATHON 

Boston Marathon bombing victims continue to unite 
Associated Press 
bosTon — wounded veterans from across the u.s. and survi­vors who lost limbs in the boston marathon bombing drew inspira­tion from one another Thursday as they swapped stories and worked to raise public awareness of the chal­lenges they face. 
marc Fucarile, who had one leg amputated and severe injuries to the other after bombs exploded near the marathon finish line on april 15, said he was honored to meet the veterans. 
“it’s reassuring to talk to a wound­ed warrior that has the same inju­ries that i have and see their success and see their progress, it’s reassur­ing to me that i can get there and life will be better,” said the 34-year-old 
paid adverTisemenT 
from stoneham. 
a dozen veterans and 11 mara­thon amputees gathered at a boston hotel, brought together by a chicago-area nonprofit called operation warrior wishes. later, they planned to attend the new england patriots’ home opener against the new york Jets. 
wounded veteran b.J. ganem, part of a group that met with survi­vors days after the bombings, said Thursday he was impressed by how far they have come and how well they have adjusted to prosthetic legs and feet. 
“They’re doing wonderful. a lot of them are walking perfect,” said ganem, who lives in reedsburg, wis., and lost his left leg he lost be­low his knee after an improvised ex­plosive device blast in iraq in 2004. “it took a lot of us a long time to get our gaits right again and everything like that, and they’ve really picked up the challenge.” 
veteran michael Fox of san diego, a 28-year-old who lost both legs when he stepped on an improvised explosive device in afghanistan in november 2011, said the veterans and marathon victims are like-minded people in similar situations. 
“you have to keep a sense of hu­mor,” he said. “it keeps your morale up and helps keep you going. if we can give them any inspiration, it’s a bonus.” 
The meeting was also a chance for marathon survivors to catch up with one another. celeste corcoran of lowell, who lost both of her legs in the bombing, came with her daugh­ter sydney, who had a severed femo­ral artery, to meet what she called her “new family.” 
“under the terrible circumstanc­es that we all met, there is a com­mon bond that means something to all of us, to see each other and to know that we’re continuing to do well,” celeste corcoran said. 
The founders of operation warrior wishes, craig steichen, 55, and his son matt, 29, went on a quest last year to bring wounded vets to football games at 32 nFl stadiums in 17 weeks. 
in new england this year, the nonprofit was interested in not only bringing wounded vets, but get­ting them together with marathon amputees. 
mery daniel, a 31-year-old medi­cal school graduate who lost part of her left leg in the marathon bomb­ings, said that while marathon am­putees didn’t enlist to fight a war, they were exposed to the same kind of violence. 
“we share now a common bond,” said daniel, who lives in boston. “we share similar stories and simi­lar injuries.” 
NFL 

hall of Fame candidates named 
Associated Press 

canTon, ohio — marvin harrison and Tony dungy, two key ingredients for the 2006 nFl champion indianapolis colts, are among 16 first-year-eligible modern era candidates for the pro Football hall of Fame class. 
Tampa bay linebacker derrick brooks, who also played under dungy, is a candidate, too. so are former raiders punter ray guy and former Falcons and eagles defensive end claude humphrey as senior nominees. 
harrison spent 13 seasons with the colts, making 1,102 receptions for 14,580 yards and 128 touchdowns. an eight-time pro bowl receiver, harrison had four consecutive seasons with at least 100 catches. he teamed with peyton manning for nearly all of those catches and retired second in career receptions to Jerry rice. 
brooks won the 2002 nFl title with buccaneers and was a pro bowler in 11 of his 14 seasons. 
The election will take place on Feb. 1, the night before the super bowl. between four and seven new members will be se­lected to the hall of Fame and will be enshrined next august. 
a nominated player or coach must been out of the game for five consecutive seasons before he can be considered for the hall. a contributor may still be active in his pro football career. 
The 2014 list has 89 players, 16 coaches and 21 contribu­tors, including former nFl commissioner paul Tagliabue and longtime team owners bud adams Jr., Jack Kent cooke, edward debartolo Jr., Jerry Jones, robert Kraft, and art modell. 
other players who are first-time candidates for induction are quarterback Trent green, running backs shaun alexander and warrick dunn, offensive linemen willie anderson and walter Jones, linebackers Tedy bruschi, willie mcginest and Zach Thomas, defensive backs rodney harrison, sam madison and patrick surtain, and coaches Jon gruden and mike holmgren. 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 




MEN’S TENNIS 

Team splits for two tournaments to start season 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
This weekend, the irish will split their squad and open their season at the oFcc invitational in olympia Fields, ill., and the vredevelt invitational in Kalamazoo, mich. 
“we’re looking at it from a more holistic perspective — all 14 guys are going to compete this weekend,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “we have 14 guys on our team and, as of this mo­ment, all 14 are starters in our mind.” 
despite the atypical structure to the weekend, the division of players was not without logic, sachire said. 
“we tried to line it up a bit with their surface preference, and we wanted to make sure the guys who are going to play on the clay later this fall were on the clay this weekend too,” sachire said. “it wasn’t entirely based on level. [returning starter and se­nior] ryan bandy is going to the [vredevelt invitational], which may be looked at as a lesser event, but we certainly don’t see it that way.” 
with the team spread over two tournaments, the irish coaching staff was forced to split as well. sachire will attend the olympia Fields country club event, while assistant coach adam schaechterle will lead notre dame at the vredevelt, hosted by western michigan. 
“honestly, i went to western michigan last year and hadn’t been to olympia Fields in a couple years, so [the decision to go to olympia Fields] was par­tially based on being at a differ­ent event,” sachire said. “also, there is a little bit more political work to do at olympia Fields. our players stay with families in housing. it’s a very nice country club and there is a banquet din­ner. i think it’s important for the head coach to be at that event, whereas western michigan is more of a straightforward tennis tournament.” 
This weekend will also be the first time the irish compete un­der sachire as the team’s head coach. according to sachire, the spotlight should remain on his players and not turn toward him and his debut. 
“i’ve been involved in this program pretty deeply for a long time. i don’t view [the weekend] as anything about me,” sachire said. “This is about our guys; it’s about them doing the things necessary on the court and set­ting that stage for a successful season.” 
Though the entire team will not start the season at the same place, the emphasis on begin­ning strong as a team remains, sachire said. 
“obviously, this is the first tournament of the year for us and we’re just excited to com­pete and do the things our guys have been training to do,” sachire said. “it’s a chance to compete against some great competition in both events, build on what we want our team to be during the year and do the things we think will put us in a position to succeed, not only this weekend, but for the rest of the year as well.” 


The irish travel to olympia invitational. The tournaments will be played Friday through sunday. 
Fields,  ill.,  for  the  oFcc  
invitational  and  Kalamazoo,  
mich.,  for  the vredevelt  

Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

irish host three teams at shamrock invitational 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
after finishing their first two weekends of action with a 2-3 re­cord, the irish will attempt to turn their luck around at the shamrock invitational, which begins when they take on loyola-chicago to­night at purcell pavilion. 
The shamrock invitational is the second straight tourna­ment the irish (2-3) have hosted this season. last weekend at the golden dome invitational, notre dame started strong with a 3-1 win over bowling green before it dropped a match to purdue and an exhibition to dabrowa, a polish club team. 
senior captain and libero andrea mchugh said losses are to be expected this early in the season. 
“you’re not going to be the best right away,” mchugh said. “we just need to fine tune and start working more as a unit.” 
with those losses in the past, the irish are preparing for their three opponents this weekend. in addi­tion to its match against loyola­chicago (5-2), notre dame also has games against oakland and auburn on saturday. 
loyola-chicago enters the tournament on a hot streak, as the ramblers swept the ecu invitational last weekend in greenville, n.c. The ramblers have already posted three shut­outs on the season. 
oakland (4-4) has a force on of­fense in sophomore outside hitter cassie pelloni, who already has 108 kills on the season and an av­erage of 3.86 kills per set. 
auburn (7-1) has gotten off to a strong start so far, losing only a 3-2 decision to wisconsin-green bay on sept. 5. senior outsider hit­ter Katherine culwell has 107 kills and an average of 3.82 kills per set this season. 
mchugh said she values the op­portunity to play such a diverse group of teams before the start of conference play. 
“The non-conference games have new opponents,” mchugh said. “The coaches scout and equip us well before the game. it’s nice to play a variety of teams be­fore conference begins.” 
To prepare for the weekend, mchugh said the irish would focus on their on-court team chemistry. 
“as a team, we need to be ea­ger to come in and work really hard in practices and in the gym,” mchugh said. 
The irish hit the court tonight at 7 p.m. against loyola-chicago before taking on oakland tomor­row at 1 p.m. and auburn at 7:30 
p.m. all matches will take place at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 



SMC SOCCER | KalamaZoo 1, sainT mary’s 0 
Belles fall to Kalamazoo in overtime 
By MERI KELLY 
sports writer 
The belles endured a heart­breaking 1-0 overtime loss at Kalamazoo on Thursday night. 
saint mary’s (2-3, 0-1 miaa) played hard against the hornets (3-1, 2-0) until the very last seconds, only to fall short in its conference opener 
“everyone put in tremen­dous work today,” belles coach michael Joyce said. “The feel and intensity was definite­ly higher with a conference game.” 
The belles had eight shots in the first half, with two in the first six minutes alone. Freshman midfielder Jenn Jarmy and sophomore mid­fielder Kathryn lueking both had early shots for the belles, but saint mary’s couldn’t capitalize. 
in the second half, the belles came out refreshed from half­time and totaled 13 shots. The hornets only had six shots the entire second period. 
“we didn’t look great in the first half, but made some ad­justments at halftime and they worked out,” Joyce said. 
but the hornets emerged vic­torious when senior forward sam voss scored on a high-arc­ing shot from the left side of the penalty box in the game’s 99th minute. 
“we didn’t have a unique strategy for the overtime. we were starting to get the run of play, so we just kept working that,” Joyce said. “it felt like we were going to get the winner, so to lose it was rough.” 
The belles outshot the hornets 23-14, with saint mary’s putting 11 shots on net compared to Kalamazoo’s eight. 
belles junior goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum saved seven shots, but surrendered the lone goal. 
saint mary’s has a quick turnaround to its next game against one of the miaa’s top squads, alma, and Joyce said it’s critical to move past the loss to the hornets. 
“The tough part is working that hard, losing, and getting up for the next game in two days,” Joyce said. “but i’m sure we’ll be up for it. The disap­pointment will fuel us to be even sharper.” 
The belles will travel to alma to play saturday at noon. 
Contact Meri Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 


NFL | paTrioTs 13, JeTs 10 

patriots squeak past Jets in rivalry game 
touchdown to a wide-open brady had trouble connecting 
Associate Press 
aaron dobson on the game’s with his rookie-filled receiving 

FoXborough, mass. — one first series before both offenses corps, while Jets rookie geno picture-perfect pass started the played as sloppily as the second-smith was sacked four times new england patriots toward half weather, and the patriots when he took too much time to an ugly win. got by the new york Jets 13-10 find someone to throw to. 
Tom brady threw a 39-yard on Thursday night. The patriots (2-0) managed 
paid adverTisemenT 


just nine first downs after lead­ing the nFl in points and yards last season. 
The Jets (1-1) cut the lead to 13-10 on bilal powell’s 3-yard touchdown run with 5:05 left in the third quarter. but smith threw three interceptions in the fourth quarter, two to aqib Talib and one to alfonzo dennard. Talib’s second with 38 seconds left sealed the victory. 
with wide receiver danny amendola, tight end rob gronkowski and running back shane vereen all sidelined, brady was without three of his top offensive players. he was left with just two tight ends and four wide receivers, three of them rookies. 
“we have a long way to go,” brady said. “no one is coming to (our) rescue and save the day, so we’ve just got to fight through it.” 
in the second half, the teams had to deal with a torren­tial downpour that started at intermission. 
on the 17 possessions in the first half, there were 11 punts, a lost fumble, one missed field goal, three field goals and a touchdown. 
The officials didn’t have a very good half, either, with one touchdown by each team and a lost fumble by new england’s Julian edelman being over­turned by video review. 
The only touchdown of the half came on the first series when brady hit dobson down the right side. it was the first reception for the second-round draft choice, who missed the opening 23-21 win over the buffalo bills with a hamstring injury. 
“we were being pretty aggres­sive there in a short-yardage situation and (dobson) slid behind him and i just gave it to him. he did all the work,” brady said. “i’m glad we got on the board early and got a lead. playing ahead is always impor­tant, especially when you get (bad) weather conditions.” 
it marked the 50th straight game in which brady has thrown a touchdown pass. drew brees, whose streak has ended, holds the nFl record of 54. 
stephen gostkowski’s 21-yard field goal made it 10-0 before nick Folk kicked a 37-yarder for the Jets after smith’s 9-yard pass to clyde gates, originally ruled a touchdown, was changed to an incompletion after the replay. 
patriots rookie ryan allen tied two team records he’d prefer not to have — 11 punts for 514 yards. That’s two more punts than the team’s total first downs. 
brady completed 19 of 39 passes for 185 yards and one touchdown. smith was 15 of 35 for 214 yards with no touch­downs and three interceptions. 
“geno had his (good) mo­ments,” Jets coach rex ryan said. “i don’t know how many balls we dropped today, but it was a bunch.” 
with the rookie wide receiv­ers still learning the offense, brady relied on veteran Julian edelman, who caught a ca-reer-high 13 passes one week after catching seven for two touchdowns. 
The Jets won their opener 18-17 against the Tampa bay buccaneers on Folk’s field goal with two seconds to go. 
The win was the patriots’ 12th straight against an aFc oppo­nent and fifth in a row against the Jets. 


The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


M Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
in sophomore goalkeeper alex bono, who has allowed only three goals in more than 367 minutes of action. 
“They’ve got a good goalkeep­er, bono,” clark said. “he’s a very good lad.” 
irish senior goalkeeper patrick wall has played stingy defense as well. in 310 minutes, wall has al­lowed just two goals and turned in 11 saves. 
The problem for notre dame isn’t preventing opponents’ goals — the problem is scoring its own, clark said. 
“we’ve been creating opportuni­ties, and we haven’t been giving too many opportunities to the opposi­tion,” clark said. “but scoring goals 
— we haven’t quite managed to do that yet.” 
although the irish have man­aged 59 shots and 18 shots on goal this season, they have only ac­counted for three goals, all of which were scored by senior forward leon brown. 
notre dame has outshot its op­ponents 59 to 31 this season, but the irish have recorded only one win. The team’s two ties came in challenging matches against then-no. 9 ucla and then-no. 1 north carolina. and notre dame’s schedule won’t get any easier, clark said. in the next month alone, the irish play no. 20 clemson, 
no.  18  maryland  and  no.  24  
northwestern.  
“we’ve  played  a  pretty  tough  

schedule up until now,” clark said. “we certainly handled that reason­ably well. i’d have liked to win all of the games, and i think we could have won all of the games. The strength of schedule we will continue to play is quite demanding.” 
notre dame faces off against syracuse tonight at 7 p.m. at the su soccer stadium in syracuse, n.y. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish travel together to MSU 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
after ending its season opener on a high note, notre dame heads to the mary Fossum invitational at michigan state this weekend for its first team test of the fall. 
although the irish participated in the iu Fall Kickoff on sunday, the team split up and competed as individuals, so no official team score was recorded. That will change this weekend, as notre dame travels to Forest akers west golf course, the spartans’ home course. 
under coach susan holt, the irish have played this invitational five of the past six years. holt de­scribes the course as one of her favorites. 

“That’s why we go there almost every year, because it’s one of my favorites that we play,” holt said. “it’s a great way for us to re­ally kick off our fall schedule. it’s close and it’s a great course. it’s a good test of golf, and you have to hit quality shots, so i think it prepares us well for the rest of the year.” 
it’s no surprise, then, that al­most the entire squad is familiar with the course. even freshman Janie Fineis, an east lansing, mich., native, has played it sever­al times. The only irish golfer not to have played Forest akers west is the team’s other freshman, Jordan Ferreira. 
Ferreira, however, is com­ing off a stellar debut at the iu Kickoff at purgatory golf course in noblesville, ind. at the one-day, 36-hole tournament, Ferreira led all irish golfers with a five-over­par effort that put her in a tie for eighth place. Ferreira’s second-round score of one-over-par was the second-best single round by an irish golfer on the day, two shots back of junior Kelli oride’s 71. 

“Jordan’s a very good player, very solid in all aspects of the game,” holt said. “college golf puts her in a whole new world of competition, and she should feel very good about her start. i look for her to be very consistent through­out the year and i think she’ll do fine.” 
overall, holt was not happy with the squad’s play in the first round of the Kickoff, but she re­mains confident in her team’s chances this weekend at michigan state. 
“i think if we had played as a team at iu our score would have been 305 in the first round,” holt said. “Three hundred and five should be the worst that we play. it shouldn’t even be that bad. we always go into a tournament look­ing to win but we just need to be more consistent. if we can do that, we can compete with anybody.” 
This weekend, the irish will face a talented 15-team field that in­cludes no. 25 northwestern and the no. 24 spartans. other squads include ohio state, oregon, miami (Fl) and indiana. 
“it’s a good mix of schools — a lot of them will have new looks, new players,” holt said. “after this, we’ll definitely know how we stack up, especially in the midwest. playing these big Ten schools will be very good for us.” 
The irish begin play at the mary Fossum invitational at Forest akers west golf course on saturday and continue through sunday. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
took a 1-0 victory over no. 5 ucla, the only team to have beaten notre dame so far. 
Though their roster boasts many highly recruited and talented players, two seniors especially stand out. Forward Kealia ohai and midfielder crystal dunn earned spots on the all-american first-team last season, and the latter won the hermann Trophy as college soccer’s best player. 
waldrum said he expects a strong performance from dunn especially, who competed with the u.s. women’s national team this summer. 
“she’s been playing with abby wambach and alex morgan and those kids that we hear about all the time, and that’s given her a wealth of experience,” he said. “but she’s dynamic, she’s athletic, she can play any posi­tion. she’s one of those players that’s got the full package, and i would think she’s got to be one of the best players in the coun­try right now.” 
To upset the unanimous top team in the country, waldrum said his team has to contain dunn and ohai and play with the confidence that they can match up with the entire Tar heel squad. 
“we’ve got to come out and match their intensity — they’re a very high-pressure and high-tempo team,” he said. “in the years that we’ve done that, we’ve been very successful against them, and in the years that we haven’t, we’ve had a re­ally difficult time coming out and playing.” 
The irish will look to tack on a second conference vic­tory against north carolina on sunday at 1 p.m. from Fetzer Field in chapel hill, n.c. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY| chrisTopher brucKer 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: emmy rossum, 27; Jennifer hudson, 32; benja­min mcKenzie, 35; Jennifer nettles, 39. 
Happy Birthday: a passionate approach to helping others will lead to interesting friendships, but also leave you in an emotional situation that can jeopardize your personal future. you have to balance life in order to take care of business and nur­ture the connection you have to people you care about. accept the inevitable, but don’t initiate something you cannot finish. your numbers are 3, 9, 16, 23, 31, 42, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t sit around when you should be out searching for something unique. you can pick up interesting items and information if you shop or make a point to talk to people you encounter along the way. love relationships look positive.   


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you may be faced with personal adjustments, but try not to act irrationally. anger won’t solve what’s bothering you. address issues tact­fully and with thoughtful solutions. showing compassion and understanding will make you a better person. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): hard work will pay the bills. stay away from fast cash schemes or people trying to take advantage of you or your skills. Focus on home, family and how you can cut costs and lower your overhead. use brains, not brawn. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): plan to do something you enjoy or spend time with someone you find entertaining or fun to be with. expand your interests. sign up for something that will help you feel good about yourself and the direction in which you are heading. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): problems will surface if you neglect your chores or disap­point someone. physical injury will put a damper on your ability to live up to your promises. your best option is to be upfront and nurture an important relationship. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take action, offer solutions and most of all, stay out of trouble. emotional issues will surface if you aren’t willing to compromise, try new things or spend time with someone who loves you and needs a little attention. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): visit a place you’ve never been before or that can offer you information about the quality of life different geographical locations can bring you. an opportunity to work in an unfamiliar place will enable you to use your skills more diversely. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t stifle your feelings, especially when it comes to love and romance. share your thoughts and you will find unusual ways to make your personal life unique, affordable and stress-free. let your intuition lead the way. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): help is on the way. don’t let pride cause you to fall short of what’s being asked of you. positive personal changes will pay off and can lead to a better standard of living and surroundings conducive to greater cash flow. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t wait for someone to take over. use your inventive imagination to initiate whatever it takes to get your idea up and running. someone you have worked with in the past will offer an unusual outlet for what you have to offer. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put more effort into the relationships you share with others. whether it’s personal or professional, the way you handle others will be a major factor in where you end up living and working. an unexpected change will take you by surprise.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): look over pending settlements, contracts or legal matters, and you will find a loophole or information that can help you bring them to a head. money is heading your way from an unusual source. your love life shows greater promise. 


Birthday Baby: you are relentless and possessive. you strive for perfection and practicality. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 3, nc sTaTe 1 
Irish electrify NC State 
Notre Dame claims first ACC win in any sport over Wolfpack 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
in their first road match of the season, the no. 8 irish defeated north carolina state, 3-1, to earn their first-ever conference win in the acc on Thursday night. 
after a nearly one-hour lighting delay at the dail soccer Field in raleigh, n.c., the wolfpack (5-2-0, 0-1-0 acc) struck first. a free kick from junior defender shelli spamer in the sixth minute deflected off notre dame freshman goalkeeper Kaela little to put north carolina state up 1-0, only the fourth goal the irish have given up in six matches so far. 
Though his team fell be­hind early, irish coach randy waldrum said he was not worried about how it would respond to the deficit. 
“The first goal we gave up was really a soft goal,” he said. “it’s one of those mis­takes that you’ll probably 

MEN’S SOCCER FOOTBALL 
never see [little] ever make again. it was five or six min­utes into the game, so you’ve got a lot of time, so i wasn’t really much worried, and i thought we’d be able to come back.” 
notre dame (5-1-0, 1-0 acc) proved waldrum right as sophomore forward crystal Thomas evened the score on an assist from junior forward lauren bohaboy in the 16th minute. 
Ten minutes later, Thomas fed the ball to junior forward Karin simonian, who scored from six feet out to give the irish the lead. The assist was Thomas’ seventh on the sea­son, tying her for the most in the nation. 
Junior defender sammy scofield added one more goal for good measure for notre dame in the 75th min­ute, assisted by senior mid­fielder mandy laddish. The score all but secured the win for the irish, and the team improved its all-time record to 313-3-1 when scoring three goals in a game. 
waldrum said the victory lived up to his expectations for his squad’s first confer­ence match as a member of the acc, a victory that is the first acc win for any notre dame team. 
“The expectation go­ing into tonight was that we would win,” he said. “outside of the early goal, the kids played fantastic. … it’s great to be the first team on campus with an acc win, so i’m pretty proud of that.” 
with their first confer­ence victory in the books, the irish will have to quickly prepare for a battle against no. 1 north carolina on sunday. 
The defending national champion Tar heels (7-0-0, 1-0-0) enter the match com­ing off a 2-1 win over virginia Tech on Thursday. 
on sept. 6, north carolina 
see w soccer PAGE 18 


irish primed to take on syracuse 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
The no. 4 irish will take on former big east challenger no. 25 syracuse tonight at 7 p.m. in syracuse, n.y. 
The game will be the first meet­ing between notre dame (1-0­2, 0-0-1 acc) and the orange (3-1-0, 0-1-0) as acc teams. last season, the two squads met in the quarterfinals of the big east championship, when the irish overcame a 2-0 second-half deficit to win 4-2. 
irish coach bobby clark said notre dame stepped up against a tough orange team in last season’s match. 
“we played them last year in the quarterfinals of the big east [championship], and i think we remember that as a really tough game, a difficult game,” clark said. “we played well. we were actually down two goals and came back to win 4-2.” 
The irish played last season’s quarterfinal game on the road and will have to face a tough crowd again in tonight’s away match, clark said. 
“we know they are a good team and have good players,” clark said. “playing at syracuse is never easy, but if we take care of business and come ready to play and focused, then we should be okay.” 
syracuse plays passing soccer ef­fectively, but the orange can also change their strategy by aggres­sively looking for scoring opportu­nities, clark said. 
“They can mix it up,” clark said of the orange. “They can play passing soccer, but they can also play very direct soccer. They can be danger­ous with long throws, so we’ve got to be able to defend that piece as well.” 
a trio of freshmen in midfield­er alex halis and forwards emil ekblom and chris nanco has sparked the orange this season. halis leads the team with three goals, while ekblom and nanco have two goals apiece. 
The orange warmed up quickly this year, as they scored 11 goals in three preseason games and another 11 in their first four regular season games. clark said syracuse has made a strong showing so far. 
“They are a solid side,” clark said. “They beat georgetown in the preseason, and they scored a lot of goals.” 
The orange also boast some tal­ent on the defensive side, especially 
see m soccer PAGE 18 

Former Irish QB Frank Tripucka dies at 85 
Observer Staff Report 

Former irish quarterback Frank Tripucka, 85, died of con­genital heart issues Thursday morning at his home in woodland park, n.J. 
Tripucka, originally from bloomfield, n.J., spent his first three seasons at notre dame behind 1947 heisman Trophy winner John lujack on the depth chart. in Tripucka’s se­nior campaign in 1948, he quar­terbacked the irish to a 9-0-1 record while completing 53 of 91 passes for 660 yards and 11 touchdowns, which set a notre dame single-season record. The irish moved into the top spot in the associated press poll two games into the season and finished second in the final poll behind michigan after notre dame tied its regular-season fi­nale against usc, 14-14. 
in Tripucka’s final three sea­sons in south bend, the irish compiled a 26-0-2 mark and claimed consensus national titles in 1946 and 1947. Tripucka finished his collegiate ca­reer 80-for-141 for 1,122 yards, 14 touchdowns and just one interception. 
Following the season, Tripucka played in the college all-star game and went on to become a first-round selection by the philadelphia eagles in the 1949 nFl draft. he played with five nFl teams and two canadian Football league (cFl) squads through 1963. 
Tripucka spent four sea­sons with the denver broncos and was one of four original selections to the bronco ring of honor in 1984. 
Tripucka’s son Kelly played basketball at notre dame and helped the irish to the 1978 Final Four. Kelly led notre dame in scoring as a sophomore and senior and earned all-america honors in each of his final three seasons. 
Funeral arrangements are pending. 







