
The independenT newspaper serving noTre dame and sainT mary’s 


observer, Scholastic find success at iCpa 
Observer editors, writers honored with awards by Indiana Collegiate Press Association 
editor andrew owens was second for his oct. 22 piece editorial board took first place discuss coming out at notre
Observer Staff Report 
named the brook baker “college gameday.” in the “best staff editorial” dame,” the second in a three-
The observer won third collegiate Journalist of the The observer took second category for its april 27, 2012, part series in The observer last place in the division i year, making him the third place in the “best single issue” piece “Jenky should issues a year. stryker also took third “newspaper of the year” notre dame student in four category for the nov. 27 issue formal apology.” The former place in “best entertainment category at the indiana years to be honored. The “miami bound,” published board also won second place in feature story” for his cover-collegiate press association award, which began in 1999, after the football team’s vic-the same category for the sept. age of student union board’s (icpa) awards ceremony held is named for a deceased stu-tory over usc. first place in 14, 2012 editorial “getting seri-seth myers comedy show in saturday at indiana university dent journalist at vincennes the “best stand-alone/pullout ous about sexual assault.” september, titled “seth myers in bloomington. staff mem-university. section” category went to former assistant managing brings the laughs at stepan.” bers took home 20 other owens placed in the “best The observer’s “pre-national editor sam stryker won second 2011-12 managing editor awards. entertainment feature story” championship coverage.” place in “best news feature 
former assistant managing category as well, winning The 2011-12 observer story” for “gay students see icpa paGE 4 



SMC celebrates
International students visit 
By CAROLINA WILSON 
news writer 
The 2013 hesburgh international scholars experience (hise) wel­comed 69 prospective inter­national students to campus on saturday. 
Julie denkler, assistant director in the office of undergraduate admission said the program promotes a stronger relationship be­tween the university and the international sphere. 
“we’re thrilled and excited to have this year’s hesburgh international scholars to campus,” denkler said. “it’s a wonderful opportunity for them to get to know notre 



parents weekend 
“Kym doing, who is studying abroad here from australia, had her mom fly to the states for the events, and my friend landess Kearns had her mom come all the way from hawaii,” sullivan said. 
The weekend officially kicked off friday afternoon with registration and a wine and cheese reception in stapleton lounge. Junior class president carolyn backes said the reception was a great way for the juniors to introduce their mothers to 
see moms paGE 6 

By KELLY KONYA 
news writer 
saint mary’s college wel­comed mothers from all cor­ners of the globe friday for the college’s annual Junior mom’s weekend. 
although the current ju­nior class is the smallest on campus with only 260 stu­dents, roughly 400 people at­tended the weekend’s events. 
Junior Katherine sullivan, 
student body president, said 
more than half of the class 
dame a little bit better and campus to welcome in a 
registered, which showed it’s a fantastic opportu­
just how special the weekend nity for those of us here on see hise paGE 4 
is for juniors. 


core council sponsors lgbTQ awareness week 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
The core council kicks off “stand against hate week” today, a week designed to spread awareness and to show support for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, Transgender and Questioning (lgbTQ) community on campus with a lineup of events through friday. 
Tonight’s “how to be an ally” dinner brings together panelists from the gender relations center (grc) and student allies, sophomore council member maggie waickman said (editor’s note: waickman writes for the scene section of The observer.). Three panelists will speak about what being an ally means to them, after which participants will form discussion groups to discuss how to be allies in the lgbTQ community, she said. 
The primary topics cov­ered will be what it means to be an ally, how it works at notre dame specifically and what the relationship between catholicism and being an ally is, waickman 
see haTe paGE 4 



news paGE 3 viewpoinT paGE 8 scene paGE 10 fooTball paGE 20 men’s lacrosse paGE 20 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew defranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 
Who is your favorite Game of Thrones character and why? 

Brandon Boldt 
junior 
o’neill hall 
“bran stark, because he has an awesome name.” 
Vinnie Birch 
junior 
carroll hall 
“gollum, because he exercises discipline.” 
Neil Flattery 
junior 
alumni hall 
“Tyrion, because he’s the most dynamic character and in the middle of the intrigue.” 

Mike Giuliano 
sophomore 
sorin college 
“Jaime lannister, because he has a compelling backstory.” 
Sam Jones 
junior 
carroll hall 
“gimli, because he’s little.” 
Kyle Sant 
sophomore 
sorin college 
“Jaime lannister, because he’s dead sexy.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

mel flanagan brian hartnett Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
meg handelman Jack hefferon nicole mcalee laura coletti mary green 
Graphics 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 

maria massa Scene gabriela leskur 
Photo 
Film: “Sun Come Up” Men’s Baseball MFA Reading Women’s Softball Soup and Substance: 

grant Tobin Viewpoint dan brombach LaFortune Student Eck Baseball Stadium Hesburgh Library Melissa Cook Stadium Education in Africa Center 5:35 p.m.-7:35 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Geddes Hall 8 p.m.-9 p.m. The Irish take on the Reading of creative The Irish face off 12 p.m.-1:15 p.m. Corrections Discussion to follow. Michigan Wolverines. writing pieces. against Valparaiso. CSC discussion. 
The observer regards itself as 
Aase Berg Reading Film: “Switch Energy Wellness Wednesday Wham! Bam! Poetry Spring Concert 

a professional publication and strives for the highest standards Eck Visitors Center Project” Coleman-Morse Slam DeBartolo Performing of journalism at all times. we do, 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Jordan Hall of Science Center Lounge Snite Museum of Art Arts Center however, recognize that we will make Hear Berg read 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 5 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 8 p.m.-10:30 p.m. mistakes. if we have made a mistake, selections from her Explores the world’s Arts and crafts event First annual poetry The Symphony please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so poetry. leading energy sites. to relieve student slam. Orchestra performs. stress. 

ndsmcobserver.com | monday, april 15, 2013| The observer 


nd hosts language contest 

By WEI LIN 
news writer 
participants showcased weeks of preparation 
friday during the  chinese  
program’s  sixth  annual  
chinese  speech  contest,  
which  featured  elabo­ 

rate skits, dialogues and monologues. 
students from all five chinese language levels participated in the contest, which took place in the au­ditorium of the hesburgh center. The judges, which including faculty from notre dame and other schools, evaluated the performances and distributed awards for each grade level. 
“our primary goal in or­ganizing this event is to pro­mote the study of chinese at notre 
dame and to foster a sense of community among our language students,” chinese associate teaching profes­sor chengxu yin said. “we believe the speech contest provides an excellent op­portunity for students to get to know each better and for students at lower levels to witness what they can achieve at higher levels.” 
The performances pro­gressed from the begin­ner level to more advanced levels. The skits and dia­logues were presented in chinese and accompa­nied by powerpoint slides that provided the english translations.
 “everyone there enjoyed every moment and every performance,” chinese lan­guage visiting assistant pro­fessor yanjing wang said. 
sophomore audrey mcmurtrie and fresh­man camilla mampieri performed a spoof of the popular “nd confessions” facebook page. The pair col­lected “confessions” from a number of chinese students through facebook, trans­lated them and then turned them into a skit. 

dominic romeo, a fifth­
“That moment, perhaps more than any other during the year, captured the essence of the passion and enthusiasm that truly distinguishes Notre Dame’s Chinese department.” 
Dominic Romeo 
junior Chinese student 

year chinese student, and george liu, a fourth-year chinese student, debated whether or not Taiwan is an independent country. liu ar­gued against independence, and romeo argued for the recognition of the coun­try. romeo said the issue is a very controversial debate being discussed frequently in chinese and Taiwanese politics. 
contestants were nomi­nated by classmates and approved by professors, en­tirely based off of their per­formance in classes. after a student committed to par­ticipate in the contest, pro­fessors worked with them to correct their scripts and to help them practice their speaking skills. 
chinese professors also prepared songs in chinese for the event. They took popular chinese songs, wrote new lyrics and created a video featuring pictures from classes, chinese events and the previous year’s contest. 
The lyrics expressed the students’ dedication to studying the language, support for the chinese program and love for the university. students of all grade levels joined to sing the two songs at the conclu­sion of the contest. 
“That moment, perhaps more than any other dur­ing the year, captured the essence of the passion and enthusiasm that truly dis­tinguishes notre dame’s chinese department,” romeo said. 
romeo said this year’s speech contest was a major success. 
“students from all levels demonstrated the growth of their language skills that has taken place over the course of the last year,” romeo said. “a wide range of exciting and entertaining topics were covered, keeping students, teachers, and other mem­bers of the crowd highly engaged.” 
although measures can be taken to improve attendance of the event, yin said this year’s event showed huge promise for coming years. 
“This year we had the larg­est attendance ever,” yin said “The hesburgh audito­rium was packed beyond ca­pacity, with many students having to sit on the floor … i am very proud of what the chinese program has done to promote chinese studies at notre dame.” 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 


Students join service project 

By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint mary’s editor 
on saturday, an estimated 75 saint mary’s students joined members of the larger south bend community to participate in rebuilding Together, a commu­nity-driven effort to rehabilitate homes in south bend. 
according to its website, rebuilding Together is a non-prof­it, community-based partnership comprised of volunteers from lo­cal government, businesses, and other nonprofits that rehabilitates the homes of low-income home­owners and improves neighbor­hoods. saint mary’s students have been involved in the rehabilitation for nine years. 
“it is recorded that over 80 per­cent of our student body does some type of volunteer work be­fore graduating,” erica buhring, director of the office of civic and social engagement, said. “The rebuilding Together event is a great event for students to partici­pate in because they can see im­mediate results.” 
according to the south bend Tribune, the rehabilitation focus­es on low-income neighborhoods and this year 18 homes will be re­habilitated in the city’s westside­lasalle park neighborhood. 
“This event allows students to move off campus and go to some very diverse neighborhoods,” buhring said. “rather than just reading about diversity, these students have the opportunity to go out and bring this diversity to life. They can crush different assumptions.” 
it is through opportunities like this that students have the op­portunity to connect with those in the larger south bend commu­nity in very real and tangible ways, buhring said. 
“saint mary’s is part of a larger community,” buhring said. “i think this can be forgotten. … it is a good chance to work side by side with members of the larger south bend community.” 
markie harrison, student director of the office of civic and social engagement, said she heard about the event from students who participated in it last year and decided to sign up after hearing their testimony. 
“i had heard from people who did the program last year that it was a lot of fun,” harrison said. “plus, i really enjoy helping out in the community and this just seemed like an optimal event.” 
she said the volunteers’ day be­gan around 7 a.m. and lasted until 3 p.m. volunteers performed basic household task such as painting, planting and putting in new win­dows. her group performed work at the house of a retired veteran who is unable to perform much basic housework himself, she said. 
“The transformation on the in­side of the house was amazing,” harrison said. “it was nice be­cause we were able to see the dif­ference made that day.” 
sophomore batool alsawalha said this experience introduced her to new members of the com­munity. her work allowed her to see how simple things like pain­ing a house of fixing a door can actually make “the world of differ­ence,” she said. 
“i study engineering and would one day like to work in more rural areas to see what type of infra­structure can be fixed and things,” alsawalha said. “This event was a great opportunity to not only branch out and work with people outside of the campus commu­nity, but to also see how important proper windows, doors, or kitchen cabinets really can be.” 
buhring said events like rebuiding Together help advance the mission of the college and provide opportunities for students to be involved in experiential learning. 
“at this institution, and this office in particular, we strongly advocate the positive effects of ex­periential learning,” buhring said. “events like rebuilding Together, really add that practical compo­nent to our students’ education. it brings volunteering and classwork together in a meaningful way.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | monday, april 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

iCpa 
conTinued from page 1 
sarah mervosh, class of 2012, won third place in the “best breaking news reporting” category for “university ad­dresses lgbTQ concerns,” published april 26, 2012. 
assistant managing editor matthew defranks took sec­ond place in “best news or feature series” for “waking the echoes,” a series highlight­ing past notre dame football players and their lives after graduation. 
scene editor Kevin noonan took second place in “best entertainment column” for his piece on the film saga’s move to disney, titled “star wars moves to the dark side.” 
Kirby mcKenna, multime­dia editor, won second place in “best feature photo” for her august boys like girls concert photo “boys like b1.” former multimedia editor sarah o’connor took third place in the same category for her september photo “seth myers at notre dame.” 
former photo editor suzanna pratt took first place in “best sports photo” for her action shot during the oct. 27 football game against oklahoma, called “statement win.” 
second place in “best blog” went to “observer passport,” featuring the study abroad experiences of former editor­in-chief allan Joseph, for­mer managing editor megan doyle, assistant managing editor marisa iati, saint mary’s editor Kaitlyn rabach, photo editor grant Tobin, news writer mel flanagan and scene writer Troy mathew. 
o’connor and web editor Kevin song won first place in “best video” for “bengal bouts 2012,” showcasing the expe­riences of members of notre 
dame’s men’s  club  boxing  
team.  
former  graphics  editor  

brandon Keelean won first place in “best design of black­and-white house ad” for “congratulations.” Keelean also took first in “best design of full-color house ad” for “final four.” 
The observer took third place in “best rate card,” crediting Keelean, Joseph, advertising manager emily Kopetsky and former ad­vertising manager monica mccormack. all four were also honored with first place in “best general media Kit.” 
other university publica­tions represented at icpa were scholastic, which took first place in “news magazine of the year,” dome yearbook, which won second place in the division i “yearbook of the year” category and The Juggler, which took second place in “literary magazine of the year.” 
The observer’s award-win­ning submissions are available on its website, www.ndsmcob­server.com. 
HiSE 
conTinued from page 1 
community from around the world.” 
This year’s program has exceeded the diversity level of previous years, denkler said. This included 69 at­tendees from 19 different countries and 27 countries of citizenship. 
Junior paulina rullán, an undergraduate leader for the hise planning commit­tee, said the diversity inter­national students bring to campus is essential for an ideal college experience. 
“The admissions team has put together a week­end filled with great events, speakers, campus tours and information sessions to demonstrate to the interna­tional students what makes notre dame special and unique,” rullán said. 
one of the most 
memorable events includes 
a meeting  with  university  
president  emeritus  fr.  
Theodore  hesburgh,  she  
said.  

“The program was created in honor of fr. hesburgh’s 
“The students are excited to meet with Fr. Hesburgh, and he in turn looks forward to the international visits each year.” 
Paulina Rullan 
junior 
interest and passion for in­ternational students,” she said. “The students are excited to meet with fr. hesburgh, and he in turn looks forward to the inter­national visits each year.” 
Jake baska, area-ad­missions counselor for the international mar­kets including africa, asia, australia, canada, europe and the middle east, said notre dame hopes to in­spire and educate through the hise program. 
“while certain aspects of our personality certainly re­flect distinctively american ideals — such as our love of football — notre dame hopes to train future lead­ers who will not just serve the united states but the larger world as well,” baska said. “To accomplish this mission, we need the per­spective of students from different nations and dif­ferent cultural backgrounds to broaden the discussions and debates that drive the student body.” 
robert mundy, director of admissions, said creating global leaders is also at the heart of the hise program. 
“we are all more aware of the global economy and worldwide connections in so many areas. notre dame should be active in develop­ing leaders for this inter­national economy,” mundy said. “it’s also exciting to imagine the notre dame community and influ­ence continuing to expand globally.” 
lucrecia siman, a pro­spective student from el salvador, said notre dame has already left a lasting impression. 
“notre dame has made me feel like home since i got here. it is extremely special and everyone has been very welcoming. every minute that goes by makes me want to be irish for life,” siman said. 
Contact Carolina Wilson at cwilso16@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 




The observer | monday, april 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

moms 
conTinued from page 1 
one another. The wine and cheese social was a perfect start to the weekend and it was nice to see everyone with their moms,” backes said. 
The juniors and their moms received complemen­tary gift bags that included saint mary’s wine glasses, earrings from flourish bou­tique and matching long-sleeve t-shirts. 
“The t-shirts were a huge hit,” junior class vice presi­dent susie larson said. “we did a spin-off of the popular ‘Keep calm and carry on’ logo, the t-shirts say, ‘Keep calm and call your mom’ on the backs. everyone has been wearing them around all weekend long.” 
on saturday, the wom­en toured the riedinger house, the residence of of­ficial friends of the college who visit campus, and the heritage room to learn more about the history of the col­lege. sullivan said this tour allowed the belles to share the college’s heritage with the moms. 
“my mom is a saint mary’s alumna, and she learned so much about the tradition of the college that she wasn’t aware of prior to the tours,” sullivan said. “it was very cool to learn the history and relate that to where we are as a college today.” 
Tea and cookies in haggar parlor followed the tours. Then, many of the juniors and their visitors attended a mass in holy spirit chapel of le mans hall. 
saturday evening’s dinner at the hilton garden hotel was one of the favorite events of the weekend, larson said. The dinner featured a silent auction, cocktail hour and a surprise performance by The undertones. 
“it all came together at the hilton garden dinner, espe­cially when [saint mary’s] president [carol ann] mooney gave her amazing speech that left most of us in tears,” larson said. 
sullivan said the speech focused encouraging the juniors to embrace the op­portunities offered by saint mary’s as they enter their fi­nal year of college. 

“president mooney said to the mothers that the wom­en sitting in front of them, meaning their daughters, are not the same women they were at 14 years old or even the same women they were when they began their col­lege experiences,” sullivan said. “she said that some­thing very special happens to a woman at saint mary’s, and as an alumna, she realiz­es how much her experience impacted her life and who she is today.” 
The weekend turned out to be a huge success for the ju­niors and their moms, larson said. 
“we were all so excited about it because we are very close to our moms,” larson said “it’s really important to have a relationship like that, i think.  The weekend was a celebration of the bonds that we have at saint mary’s in our sisterhood, and then be­ing able to share that with. 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonye01@sainmarys.edu 
Hate 
conTinued from page 1 
said. 
“i’m particularly excited to hear people’s thoughts on whether individuals have to be outside the lgbTQ community to identify as an ally,” waickman said. “There’s the question of whether someone who iden­tifies as gay can be an ally to another gay person and how we see notre dame students who identify as straight act­ing as allies. 
“There’s a lot of nuance to the label ‘ally,’ and there’s a lot we can learn from talking about it.” 
Tuesday night’s event will be a screening of the movie “bully” in room 101 of debartolo hall at 9 p.m., council member lauren morisseau said. This will be followed by a prayer service held wednesday at 8:30 p.m. at the grotto. 
“i think [the prayer ser­vice] is great because there is definitely a spiritual side to what we do as a communi­ty and with solidarity work,” morisseau said. “There are a lot of lgbTQ people on cam­pus whose faith is important to them. it’s going to be a catholic prayer service but we’ll shoot for a universal theme, open to people of all faiths.” 
waickman said the prayer service is a key part of the week, and she hopes next year’s lgbTQ student sup­
port  organization  will  
continue  addressing  the  
spiritual  aspects  of  their  
mission.  

“we chose to do a prayer service because we’ve talk­ed for a long time about how there’s disconnect between the lgbTQ community and spirituality and faith life,” waickman said. “i think there’s a specific struggle that many members of the community go through in re­gards to faith, and there’s no real good outlet [currently].” 
free t-shirts designed by sophomore Keri o’mara will be distributed from 12 to 2 p.m. Thursday at the fieldhouse mall. a solidar­ity-themed acousticafe will take place at 10 p.m. thanks to a collaborative effort by the core council and the student union board (sub), morisseau said. 
“[acousticafe] will run as usual, but the performers will sing solidarity based songs … so the focus is on sharing music and sharing time together,” she said. 
The final event of the week will be a “day of silence” on friday, which is a nation­wide tradition morisseau de­scribed as “a real challenge.” 
“people wear a sticker or have a card that says they’re not speaking for the day to try to honor the silence of people who really cannot be honest with who they are,” she said. “it’s relevant to everyone included in the ‘lgbTQ’ acronym. 
“it is challenging, and i think it opens a lot of peo­ple’s minds because a lot of us have never felt that we’ve had to hide who we are,” she said. 
overall, “This week is about love, not politics,” waickman said. 
“stand against hate week expresses a sentiment the entire notre dame family can get behind,” she said. “Traditionally, the turnout for [the week’s events] has been mostly from the lgbTQ community on campus, so we wanted to make a big ef­fort to broaden the target audience for stand against hate week.” 
morisseau said the col­laborations with the grc and sub have been “one of the best experiences of this whole thing.” 
“it’s great to work with ad­ministrators who really do care about student needs and who are committed to providing for students and encouraging growth on campus,” morisseau said. “between grc and sub, it’s been really positive this year. This is the last year that core council reason­ably will be existing because of the [new] student organi­zation, which will take re­sponsibility for a lot of this planning [next year].” 
The role of allies will be emphasized this week be­cause their efforts are cru­cial elements of the lgbTQ community relations on campus, morisseau said. 
“we want to broaden the definition of ally, because a lot of people say ‘yeah, i’m an ally’ but then they don’t necessarily know what that means for them, what that means for their lives. i think some people incorporate it into their identity more than others,” she said. “on this campus, it’s not necessar­ily a given that you would be an ally, but significantly more people are allies than you might think. i’m very impressed by how many we have here.” 
waickman said the occa­sional tension on campus because of lgbTQ issues can be alleviated with more discussion and dialogue. 
“being an ally and walking with our brothers and sis­ters in christ — that’s some­thing that’s not divisive, and it can unify our campus,” waickman said. “bringing out that unity is what stand against hate week is all about.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 


inSidE Column 
Marriage then and now 


gun range lessons 

Kaitlyn Rabach 
saint mary’s editor 

last Thursday, i stepped far out of my com­fort zone and went to a gun range for the first time. in fact, i went to two gun ranges within a four-hour period. 
This was not just a random visit. i had a purpose. my anthropology class requires students to pick a site and compose a short ethnography about it. with everything going on in the united states right now regarding gun rights, i thought it would be an interest­ing place to observe. This interest then led me to the Kodiak gun range in south bend and the midwest gun and range in elkhart, in. 
going in, and even now, i have pretty strong opinions on gun legislation and proudly support president barack obama’s proposed legislation regarding the issue. however, to observe these sites i had to put my opinions aside and really dive into the atmosphere of the range. 
it turns out the observations i was able to make were just fascinating. all of my pre­conceived notions of the range were quickly proven to be inaccurate. 
first off, i really did not think i would see many women in the shooting lanes. To my surprise, women not only occupied the ma­jority of the shooting lanes but were actually behind the counter selling guns and offering shooting advice. 
The manager said the gun range has become a prime location for couples’ date nights. again, with my limited knowledge on weaponry and gun ranges, i never would have thought the range would be a social place, but it turns out it can be. 
Kodiak gun range had a decent-sized lounge room where shooters could socialize while watching others shoot. The vibrant atmosphere in this lounge completely shat­tered my other theory about gun ranges. before, i imagined them to be very stuffy places where customers had little to no inter­action with each other. well, it turns out gun ranges can actually be “family friendly.” 
The staff at both ranges was also very friendly. at Kodiak, the manager was more than willing to answer my questions and even offered me a free gun safety course. after the free tutorial, he even brought me to the different types of ranges and let me shoot a couple of rounds. 
shooting a handgun may not have been something on my bucket list beforehand, but now i can check it off. 
i will continue to support legislation for universal background checks, renewing the assault weapons ban and a ban on high-ca­pacity magazines. however, now my support will not be strictly based off of news articles, political experts and so forth. now, i have personally seen how shooting ranges and owning guns have become an integral part of some lives. These visits not only pushed me out of my comfort zone, but allowed me to gain a different perspective on the gun debate. 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | monday, april 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
depended on women for cooking, clean-in many ways based on the biological Elliott Pearce ing, child care and the other services differences between men and women. The human interest they didn’t have the time to do. now, women carried and gave birth to the 
with the proliferation of advanced tech-children men fathered, while men did 
opponents of gay marriage have often nology, almost all jobs, including the not. women were physically weaker, protested that allowing gays to marry most lucrative ones, do not require hard while men were stronger. These were the will constitute a backdoor “redefinition” physical labor and can thus be done as facts of life to which people had to adapt of marriage. however, i believe western well by women as by men. women can their behavior. many think now we have societies have already substantially re-now earn their own income and main-mastered biology with technology, these defined marriage over the past 60 years. tain themselves independently. differences no longer matter, and tradi­i hope to provide some necessary con-finally and most importantly, mar-tional marriage has become obsolete for text for the current gay marriage debate riage used to be the only legitimate everyone — gay and straight. by outlining a few of these important institution for the bearing and rearing i would suggest many aspects of tra­changes, how they took place and what of children. a child born out of wedlock ditional marriage are still relevant to they mean for the future of marriage, 100 years ago would likely be disavowed us today. most people want to get mar-whether gay or straight. by its father and raised by its grandpar-ried, but both scientific evidence and 
marriage used to be the only relation-ents, other relatives or in a charity home common sense suggests having more ship in which legitimate sexual relations set up for that purpose, none of which sexual partners before marriage makes it could take place. now, largely as a result are ideal options. however, thanks to harder to bond with one’s spouse within of the invention of artificial birth control a number of societal and technologi-marriage. almost everyone agrees chil­and abortion, this view has changed in cal factors such as the aforementioned dren raised by two married parents the eyes of many westerners. sustained greater financial independence of wom-fare better than children raised by one. extramarital sexual relationships do en, the invention of reliable paternity finally, though women do not need men not always produce children they, their tests, the enactment of child-support to support them financially any more, parents or their communities must ac-laws and the development of all-day many want to take time off from work knowledge and care for (though more of-public schools and child care centers, a at some point to be with their children. ten than people would like, they still do), single woman — or man — can obtain They would benefit in that situation so the taboo on pre-marital sex has been the financial and educational resources from having a working spouse to provide lifted. many people still see sex as more to adequately raise his or her child with-a steady source of income for the fam­legitimate within marriage, but outside out a spouse. Therefore childrearing, just ily. Traditional marriage is no longer the of marriage, it is at least acceptable. like sex, has become acceptable outside only possible option for couples and for 
furthermore, marriage used to have of marriage as well. society, but there are still good reasons a strong economic component as well. Three of the main reasons people used why it may be the best. before we decide most of the jobs that existed in pre-to get married, namely, to have sex, raise who can get married, i think we should industrial and early industrial societies children and efficiently divide up labor, reexamine what marriage is and what it required hard physical labor men could now have less power than before be-should be. perform better than women. Therefore, cause people are now doing these things it made economic sense for the men to outside of marriage. Today, people get Elliott Pearce is a senior Program of devote themselves almost exclusively married simply because they believe Liberal Studies and mathematics major to these occupations while the women they want to spend their entire life with from Knott Hall. He can be reached at handled the domestic tasks they could a certain person. one can easily see epearce1@nd.edu do as well as men or better. women why this new conception of marriage is The views expressed in this column depended on men for the income they more amenable to gay marriage than the are those of the author and not could not earn themselves, while men old one was. Traditional marriage was necessarily those of The Observer. 
lEttEr to tHE Editor 
Keep your ‘traditional marriage’ 
as a writer of one of the many viewpoints not published with genealogy. and many of these issues remain unresolved. after the two unfortunate “gay debate” columns of april 11, i but being ostracized also comes with the unique opportu­wanted to clarify something about mr. carlson’s appreciated nity to live and love outside these power structures, and i will and graceful clarification of catholic social teaching and the sing praises of the subversive power of non-normative sexuali­chastisement from The observer for not “joining the debate” ties until the day i die. after years of turmoil, i’m happy to be (despite the slew of letters i’m sure they received. i can name a gay. i would never wish i were straight. dozen just among my own comrades). as interesting as theo-That does not mean, however, everything is hunky-dory in logical arguments are about “same-sex attraction” (and view-homo-paradise. The question remains, “how does one live the points can’t really capture the dissertation-length discourse american dream as a gay man?” The united states encoded the that would do justice to the topic), i have long found the incon-nuclear family into its economic system, and when gay families gruities in catholicism’s approach to most topics problematic want to live as an autonomous household and embrace the at best (especially notre dame’s particular brand). The debate power that comes with committing long-term investment into right now, the debate The observer should have initiated, each other’s lives, it becomes economically infeasible without is about the legal institution of marriage, not catholicism’s marriage (not to mention basic necessities like child custody sweeping disregard of homosexual love. and i’d like to give my and visitation rights). while the term marriage carries symbol-personal view, (hopefully) without doing too much damage to ic weight that could wage the force of the federal government the cause. against gay discrimination, hate crimes and bullying, i don’t 
as a gay man and a longtime student of queer and gender really want any part in your sadomasochistic fad of “traditional theory, i don’t have an ounce of sympathy for your “traditional marriage.” no, i want the social and economic privileges af­marriage.” see, the “social justice fad” that is marriage equality forded any opposite-gender pair that can sign a marriage certif­is new to a degree. besides the marginalization and hate that icate. i want the safety net the government has extended below could never have let the queer communities of the twentieth every other married couple. i want the guarantee my family century dream so big as legally recognized unions, many want-will be cared for when tragedy, death and hardship find my ed no part in your patriarchal marriage. it has been a tool for household. and i would just love to see the broken institution of social dominance and subordination for centuries. it impris-“traditional marriage” suffer a hard uppercut to the face. oned women in the private home and exiled men into the pub­
lic. it breeds cultural hostility as childrearing becomes private, isolated from others of difference. it binds two people together Joshua Whittaker at an early moment in their lives, assuring they will evolve over senior the next 50 years in compatible ways and then chastising them off-campus when they don’t. it conflates notions of family and community april 14 


The observer | monday, april 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

We’re not in Kansas anymore 
David Willcutts 
guest columnist 

carter boyd, i expect this is one of many responses to your column “somewhere over the rainbow” published on april 9. i hope the responses will con­cern the ideas and opinions you expressed and not you personally. accordingly, i will limit myself to the following observation: you claim to have spent much time in dialogue and research concerning the gay rights movement. however, nowhere in your re­sponse did you directly cite or quote specific bible verses or show any substantial theological research, and the little paraphrasing of the bible and christian doctrine you had did nothing to justify your implicit view of homosexuality as a sin and of bad qual­ity. moreover, you engaged in offensive and flawed arguments that have engendered ridicule, outrage and incredulity among pro-gay rights individuals. Therefore, i must sincerely question how much criti­cal and constructive dialogue you have engaged these individuals in, as you compared homosexuals to “alcoholics, murderers [and] rapists” by way of analogy, labeled the “gay movement” a fad and stated we must “heal [homosexuals] and change their hearts and lives.” 
marriage is not only a religious covenant between a man and woman, but also a government-recognized institution. This is evidenced by marriage licenses, federal and state laws and regulations concerning 
lEttErS to tHE Editor 
actually, let’s talk about love. 

it’s easy to love your friends. it’s easy to love your family (sometimes). it’s easy to love those who are a part of your commu­nity, of your niche, who share your view­points or who believe the same things you do. 
i’m all for that love, but that’s not the kind of love i’m talking about. 
i want to sign a banner in the dining hall, in lafortune or wherever in which i commit to ‘love everyone’ (note the capital e). 
i’m committing to love those who say my sexuality is a disease, that i should be quarantined for my sexual orientation. 
i’m committing to love those who still believe we ought to live in a racially marriage and the legal nature of divorce. it is criti­cally important to recognize the separate definitions of religious marriage and civic marriage. Just as other cultures and religions have definitions of marriage different from that of the catholic church, so too can the federal and state governments define mar­riage, as a civil institution, differently from how the church defines it. in fact, more than a few countries and states do, so contrary to your opinion, gay mar­riage does very much exist both as a term and an institution. 
i also consider myself a christian and believe in a loving and benevolent god. i further believe loving, intimate homosexual relationships are just as mor­ally good and healthy as their heterosexual counter­parts. There are no bible verses that have convinced me acting upon homosexuality is inherently sinful or that homosexuals should be denied or excluded from marriage. leviticus 18:22 & 20:13, as well as mosaic law in general, were declared to not apply to gentile christians by the council of Jerusalem and the apostle paul. The original King James versions of 1 cor. 6:9 and 1 Tim. 1:10 should not be construed to disapprove of loving homosexual relationships, as the greek term “arsenokoites” paul coined does not con­clusively refer to homosexual acts in its early context and use. as for romans 1:26-27, i would refer you to the works of candace chellew-hodge and matthew vines on that matter. That is my theological research for why i think being gay, lesbian or undecided is perfectly fine. 
‘i love you’ 
segregated society. 
i’m committing to love those who would prefer to see me dead due to my spiritual beliefs. 
do not misunderstand me. do not con­fuse love with agreement. i believe seg­regation should be a thing of the past, i believe in marriage equality and freedom of religion. and i will defend my beliefs to those who disagree with me. 
but defense of my beliefs does not call for disrespect of another’s inherent humanity. and yes, every single person on this earth possesses this inherent humanity which we are all called to re­spect. i know i am right in my beliefs. but i also know i am not god. none of us are. we are all the scum of the earth, fighting tooth and nail to find some kind of truth, some higher meaning, hoping we do not get swallowed up by the vastness of this magnificent cosmos and praying we are more than a mere fraction of a decimal of a speck in reality. 
To those who would see me rot for who i am: i love you. 
i clearly do not agree with you. i’d pre­fer to stay alive. rotting is never good for the skin. i can’t imagine how much mon­ey i’d have to shell out for prescription lotion to deal with that condition. and hey, if you come at me in the middle of the night with a knife, i will probably try some fancy dragon style on you, because knife wounds are never fun either. but nevertheless, i am committed to love you. 
finally, i must object to a few more of your opin­ions. comparing homosexuals to alcoholics fun­damentally misconstrues the serious addiction alcoholism is and erroneously likens homosexuality to a detrimental addiction. comparing homosexual behavior to murder, rape and terrorism, as you did, is offensive and illogical. consenting homosexual be­havior is incomparable to an action in which a party is, by definition, unwillingly physically or sexually harmed. gay marriage is about so much more than the tax code, and “our seemingly important rights, freedoms, and constitution” are actually immensely important. The idea, “that’s why the human race still exists: because we aren’t gay,” is grossly over­simplified. it suggests a lack of understanding of the complex interactions between genes and their envi­ronment which result in the particularly complex na­tures of human social and sexual behavior. moreover, homosexuals can, and some do, have biological children. homosexuality is not a fad, craze, fetish or whatever else you negatively referred to it as. it is a sexual orientation just as legitimate and good as your own. people of all sexual orientations deserve your respect, not your pity. They deserve your acceptance, not your judgment. above all, they deserve laws that are justified by something besides a religion that isn’t necessarily theirs. 
David Willcutts is an off-campus senior studying biology. He can be contacted at dwillcut@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the 
every day, it is a struggle to love you, but i am up to the challenge. because to feel any less for you than i do for myself is to deify myself. i know i am not god. i know we are all equal and that we all have a right to our own beliefs. and i love you. 
loving our friends is easy. That’s not what i’m signing onto. 
p.s. — observer, way to go upholding freedom of speech and remaining unbi­ased in reporting. Thank you for loving and respecting everyone’s humanity. rock on. 
Mia Lillis 
junior cavanaugh hall april 12 

A serious Catholic and a serious ally 
so here’s the thing: i am catholic. i do catholic things like go to church on sunday and holy days, have a cal­endar that tells me when saints’ feast days are and own several rosaries. i believe in catholic things like the Trinity, the dignity of all created be­ings and that the pope actually says some important stuff now and then. if you’ve been paying attention so far, you may have noticed a faint hint of sarcasm up to this point. don’t be alarmed. i only joke about these things because i am actually very se­rious about them. here’s something else i’m serious about: being an ally. 
let’s return for a moment to the things a catholic believes. a catholic has respect for the dignity of all life and maintains humankind has a special and exalted place within cre­ation. a catholic loves all of creation and all of humanity for the sake of the one who created it. i feel i can state without fear of contention that people who identify as homosexual are, in fact, created beings. if they were uncreated, then they would be god. as that’s not an argument any­one’s trying to make, we can dismiss it. members of the lgbT community are a part of creation. They are wor­thy of love. members of the lgbT community are part of humankind. They have an inherent dignity. They are worthy of respect. 
a catholic has an evangelical duty to live his or her faith fully and so advocate it to others. This, at the most basic level, means being a kind, accepting individual. it means being an individual who represents as best she can god’s infinite love on earth and who leaves matters of judgment to god. being catholic means not having sexual intercourse until after marriage or having a sexual relation­ship with a partner of the same sex. it also means treating those who do absolutely the same as those who don’t. 
in summary, i am an ally because i am catholic. i am serious about being an ally because i am serious about being catholic. 
Lucia Tosatto 
junior ryan hall april 12 


The observer | monday, april 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Gabriela Leskur 
scene writer 

when i confessed on facebook last week that i have 162 flex points left, the reaction was priceless. 
“whoa dere,” commented my friend laurie breed, one of several innocent facebook users who stumbled upon my confession. many people commented with varying degrees of the same sentiment, a vague mixture of in-credulousness and jealousy. 
over the last few days, i’ve talked to a handful of people in the same predicament. one friend had 250 flex points burning a hole in his pocket. another friend had upwards of 300 flex points last week. apparently, the frugal notre dame student is not as much of a rarity as my facebook friends originally thought. 
To many a starbucks connoisseur, the fact that any­one could still have flex points this far into april seems impossible. i mean, if you buy yourself a venti raspberry white mocha and a lovely piece of pound cake every day, 
i’m not surprised that your flex points met their un­timely end before midterms rolled around. but for those of us who gave up chocolate or the huddle or starbucks or Taco bell for lent and are swimming in flex points, i’ve come to your rescue. 
let’s say you have 150 flex points and you’re just dying to get rid of them. follow my guidance and you’ll be left with zero flex points in no time. 
Start your Christmas/School Supply Shopping 
for some of you, if you’ve made it this far in the semes­ter with your flex points, it’s probably because you feel like you have to spend them on logical purchases and not on a daily churro. 
for you practical folks out there, the best way to spend your overflow of flex points without feeling the onset of buyer’s remorse is to follow your instincts. 
does your mom love her ground starbuck’s coffee beans? buy her three bags of dark roast from starbucks. she’ll never know she should be thanking the university for the gift and not her offspring. 111 flex points to go. 
do you have a thing for that cute barista? be brave. strike up a conversation. can’t decide between a refresh­ing peppermint mocha and a calming chai tea latte? ask your crush what they think. let your flex points bring you a love connection. 106. 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 
do you always run out of staples and steal from your roommate? are you always ripping your papers because you don’t have a hole puncher? do you throw your papers haphazardly across your desk because you don’t have enough folders? do you get sick of highlighting every­thing in yellow? 
cheapskate, you no longer have a valid excuse. stop mooching of others, stop torturing your roommate with your clutter, and go buy every school supply you’ve ever needed from the huddle. chances are that you’ll still be left with more flex points than you know what to do with. 85. 
make new Friends 
for those of you flex point hoarders who possess the fi­nesse of a graceful social butterfly, use this opportunity to make new friends. 
next time you find yourself standing in the starbucks line, look at the person behind you who is waiting for his or her own drink. when the time comes to purchase your drink, tell the barista you’d like to buy the drink of the person behind you too. who knows, you might creep them out or you might brighten their day or you might make a new friend — probably all three.  76. 
That friendly acquaintance of yours in the philo discus­sion group who always dozes off, you’ve asked her about her narcolepsy many times. she always explains that she never has time to stop by the huddle to get herself tea in the morning. Thus, regardless of how riveting the discus­sion, she just can’t manage to keep her eyes open. come to class one day with the fruitiest, most delicious tea you can find and offer it to your fellow domer in need of some caffeine. what’s a few less flex points at this point? 75. 
or maybe get both of you tea once a week til the end of the year. 69. 
your roommate has been having a rough day. her professor has decided to move up a dreaded cumula­tive exam and she’s completely unprepared. you know, you’ve always wanted to buy one of those jumbo rice Krispy treats and walk out of the huddle shamelessly with it in your hands, proudly embracing the freshman fifteen. now you finally have a compelling reason to do so. 50. 
make assorted candy bags and leave them around the library with little notes on them, so that hopefully one late night studier will find some solace in an unexpected bag of gummy worms. 40. 
to Give is Better than to receive 
perhaps the best thing you can do with your flex points is to give to the less fortunate. with all the stress of a col­lege student, it’s easy to buzz through each day without taking the time to stop and be thankful. 
all around us, in the south bend area, our country, and our world, there are so many people suffering without the most basic humans amenities. food, water, and shel­ter is merely a dream for many of our brothers and sisters across the globe. 
as a few people have pointed out to me, a lot of things can be purchased here on campus with flex points and donated to the south bend community. 
if you’re looking for a place to donate, consider the center for the homeless in south bend. on their website, they post suggestions for donations that are of immedi­ate and ongoing need to them. many of these items you can easily buy at the huddle. 
Take this article with you on your next run to the huddle and check off items to purchase for the less for­tunate in our area: 
school supplies, 
lysol wipes, 
shampoos, 
conditioners, 
Q-tips, 
band-aids, 
deodorant, 
Toothbrushes, 
Toothpaste, 
and then, finally, 0. 
and then there Were none 
To whom much is given, much is expected. enjoy the last month of school in any way you choose, but i implore you to use your wealth of flex points for good instead of evil. 
soon enough, you too will be devoid of flex points, re­siding in the painful purgatory that is putting money into your domer dollars account. but until then, take up the cause and use your excess of flex points in a quirky, kind, or charitable way.  you’ll be glad you did. 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer |monday, april 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene writer 

The center for social concerns teamed up with the browning cinema friday to present “how To survive a plague,” an academy award-nominated documentary about the aids activist group acT up.  acT up, or the aids coalition to unleash power, formed in the mid­1980s as an advocacy group for people suffering from hiv and aids as the disease reached epidemic levels in new york city. 
“how To survive a plague” takes its audience through the history of aids in america from the early 1980s to the mid 1990s. acT up included hundreds of participants, but the movement intentionally elected a single leader. This way, the film focuses on many key activists who were involved in the acT up movement, including those involved in aids research, advocacy and legislation. 
assistant professor of sociology, Terence mcdonnell, who researches aids movements like acT up, intro­duced the film. he encouraged the audience to notice the visuals used by acT up protestors. footage taken from cameramen within the organization and from news sources chronicles the powerful protests acT up held, which included demonstrations against wall street, drug companies and the fda. Throughout the movie, the organization’s motto, “silence=death,” and their sym­bol, a pink triangle, can be seen on every member over a dozen years, signifying the power and growth of their campaign. 
The documentary, composed mostly of rare footage of acT up meetings, protests and homemade psas in a 
     Maggie Waickman 
scene writer 

welsh alternative rock band The Joy formidable graced the stage of legends’ this past Thursday night. 
after a sloppy-yet-energizing start by Team spirit, the opening band, The Joy formidable rocked onto stage. unfortunately, the show was cut short due to leader singer ritzy bryan’s health issues. despite this early end to the show, The Joy formidable and Team spirit pro­duced a noise and night, which was, in fact, formidable. 
Team spirit, headed by ayad al adhamy (formerly of passion pit), forcefully tried to take the audience on a rock n’ roll high. adhamy sung, sweated, and jammed so hard at times he seemed in danger of falling down. Team spirit is just a fledging band — their ep was re­leased just two days before the show at legends — but they made up for their inexperience with their soul power. 
The band did its best to pump up legends and for the most part succeeded, especially with songs such as “f*** the beach” and “Jesus, he’s alright”. The audience seemed to lose a bit of energy with the extensive break between the opener and the headliner, but when The Joy time when cameras needed two hands for holding, pro­vides a glimpse into organizational power of the acT up movement and made the film fascinating from the start. 
but while the organizational strength of acT up is chronicled in “how To survive a plague,” so is the heart­breaking tragedy of the aids epidemic. The film begins by presenting a worldwide death toll of the aids epidem­ic in the year 1983. as the film takes the audience through the proceeding years through the eyes of acT up, it also revisits that toll, reminding us of the enormous opponent the group is up against. The disease was not the only thing aids activists were trying to fight at this time — their obstacles included discrimination, homophobia, government bureaucracy and complacency from re­searchers and public health workers alike. 
as the movie continues, it tells of the many accom­plishments of the acT up movement. Through diligent research, civil disobedience and, as members recol­lect in interviews, pure anger, the organization helped give thousands of americans access to aids treatment and made the aids epidemic a national issue. The or­ganization gave a voice to the thousands of people suf­fering from the disease and forced politicians and drug companies to be accountable for the crisis. The actions and accomplishments of acT up were, in many ways, awe-inspiring. 
The most commendable part of “how To survive a plague,” however, was its brutal honesty. The film doesn’t simply praise the activists, but examines the failures of the organization. in this way, the movie reflects a very human struggle, grappling with human loss, adminis­trative setbacks, and periods of disbelief amongst even 
formidable came on, the audience was ready for more. 
The Joy formidable was loud in the best kind of way, complete with rampaging guitars and a giant gong. i was impressed by the amount of sheer noise emanat­ing from this welsh trio. lead singer, ritzy bryan, pro­vided a softer edge to the rock n’ roll vibe. sporting a cookie monster baseball hat and a black sequined dress, she stood out both visually and vocally. bryan’s voice, feminine yet forceful, contrasted with bryan’s guitar, matthew Thomas’s percussion, and rhydian dafydd’s bass. 
bryan wasn’t the only visually pleasing aspect of the show. behind the band, a giant lit-up wolf’s head, re­minding the audience of their recently released soph­omore album, “wolf’s law,” served as backdrop. This neon-lighted wolf’s head doubled as a projection screen for ever-changing images throughout the show. 
The Joy formidable played seven songs, one of my favorites being “austere,” a track that is so catchy and danceable the audience is compelled to dance and sing along before they can stop themselves. 
after a song “about the real kind of friendship, not the facebook friends,” bryan started looking reserved and not as high-energy as she had in the previous songs. while i thought it might be because she was feeling the most adamant supporters of acT up. 
if there is any theme that viewers should take away from the movie, it is a sense of hope in the fact that collec­tive action by a group of impassioned advocates can cre­ate significant cultural and policy changes.  without the aggressive campaigning and action by peter staley, larry Kramer, bob rafsky, david barr and countless others, aids drugs and other antiretroviral medicines would not have been made available to the public. stigmas regard­ing homosexual men and promiscuity that caused denial of treatment and ignorance of the disease still would sur­round aids in the united states today. 
of course, the fight against aids is not over, which the film definitively conveys. with the close of the film, “how To survive a plague” shows the number of people infect­ed with aids today—a number now around 40 million. Though this fact is daunting, the film encourages us all to get involved with the fight against aids as well as the fight for health care justice and unity in marginalized communities. it is clear that though “how To survive a plague” tells of one community in one city over two de­cades, the legacy of acT up has and will live on. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
“How to Survive a Plague” 
Public Square Films 
Directed by: Dan Cogan 

emotional about the song, bryan revealed after the song’s conclusion that she wasn’t feeling well. 
bryan announced that she had to cancel the show. she had been feeling unwell for the past few days and said she feared she might pass out. bryan’s remorse for canceling was perhaps one of the sweetest parts of the show.
 The Joy formidable never cancelled a show or ended a show early before, and bryan couldn’t stop apologiz­ing to the crowd. The audience cheered for bryan and yelled at her to go sit down and get off the stage. 
although The Joy formidable only got halfway through their set, and didn’t play “whirring,” their most popular song, the spectacle they put on still made the trek out to legends’ worthwhile. i was most impressed by the attitude and spirit of front-woman ritzy bryan. despite sickness, she didn’t cancel a show in the tiny town of south bend. despite having a pounding, elec­tric sound that aspires to larger venues, she didn’t mind being face-to-face with the audience. and she did it all while rocking out in a cookie monster hat. 
Contact Maggie Waickman at mwaickma@nd.edu The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


SportS autHority 

why i can’t root for Tiger 

Mike Monaco 
sports editor 
we all make mistakes. mistakes are truly fixtures of life, as common as breathing. so i get it — nobody is perfect, and so i believe in second chances. 
but there’s something hold­ing me back with Tiger woods. There’s something holding me back when people root for him on sunday at the masters. sure, there’s the argument that he’s good for golf and that people can like Tiger the golfer and not Tiger the person, but i still can’t do it. 
i just can’t root for Tiger after he admitted to infidelity and destroyed his family. maybe i have a double standard when it comes to the lives of athletes off the field, court or course. i’ll willingly give angels outfielder Josh hamilton second chances. and third and fourth and fifth chances. he has an addiction, and he’s actively working to fight it. 
you can argue that when someone engages in count­less affairs like Tiger did, that person has an addiction as well. he probably does/did, and it might even be out of his control. but Tiger directly messed with the sanctity of the family, while hamilton directly messed with his own body. when you’re addicted to a drug, the main person you’re harming is yourself. when you’re married and addicted to other women, the main person you’re directly harming is your wife. 
i understand Tiger is good for the game of golf — there’s really no getting around that. ratings and attendance are higher when Tiger is in ac­tion and, more importantly, in contention. so i understand the fans and media members who hoped Tiger would not be disqualified after the sec­ond round of the masters this weekend for taking an illegal drop. 
but i don’t really care about how good he is for the game. ratings don’t matter to me like they do to the suits at cbs and espn. 
i was perfectly content as i followed other masters story-lines throughout the weekend. give me 14-year old Tianlang guan over Tiger. it doesn’t matter to me that guan failed to shoot a round under par, or that he finished at +12. he was a fun story to follow regard­less of how he performed. give me the three aussies — Jason day, adam scott and marc leishman — at the top of the leaderboard who may not have Tiger’s big pedigree or Tv ratings. golf has always been billed as a gentleman’s game, so shouldn’t golf fans expect integrity out of its participants? 
Then there’s the argument that cheering for Tiger the golfer is justified because the transgressions of Tiger the person are completely sepa­rate. To me, however, the two are not independent. Tiger the golfer is just like Tiger the person. 
he comes off as pompous on the course and in interviews. he’s known for throwing his clubs and yelling at spectators on the links. off the course, he gives answers as if he’s agi­tated because the reporters are wasting his time. it all adds up to a golfer, a person and a Tiger that is looking out for just himself. 
That self-centered vibe from Tiger the golfer is the same one i feel must have allowed a person to take actions to ruin his family. some may argue that Tiger the person merely made a mistake. and maybe he did, but it’s infinitely tougher to forgive Tiger when you see him chucking clubs and giv­ing snide answers to media members. 
because of those antics, i’m not as willing to see Tiger as someone victimized by an ad­diction or a disease. he strikes me as a cold, self-centered person focused on Tiger and no one else. it’s the same idea with unloved superstars like alex rodriguez and barry bonds. Thus, when steroid al­legations arose against those two sluggers, i struggle to find them innocent because of their unrepentant demeanors. 
contrast a-rod, bonds and Tiger with lebron James, and the picture becomes clearer. lebron was once an undisput­ed villain, but after the heat-hating hysteria died down, (more) fans could once again cheer for the fun-loving lebron because they saw him as an easy-going guy. and easy-going guys make mistakes. i can for­give lebron for ‘The decision’ and for his proclamation of “not one, not two, not three…” championships for the heat. humans make mistakes. 
Tiger, meanwhile, doesn’t strike me as human. he’s machine-like in everything he does. 
so i can’t forgive him be­cause robots don’t make moral mistakes. 
humans do. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
GolF 
Scott claims first green jacket in playoff 
Associated Press 
augusTa, ga. — adam scott finished the job this time, and put an end to more than a half-century of australian misery at the masters. 
with the two biggest putts of his career, scott holed a 20-footer for birdie on the 18th hole of regulation that put him into a playoff with angel cabrera, and then won his first major championship sunday with a 12-footer for birdie on the second extra hole. 
scott leaned back and thrust his arms in the air after the putt dropped on the 10th hole, a celebration for all of australia and personal redemption for himself. it was only last sum­mer when scott threw away the british open by making bogey on his last four holes to lose by one shot to ernie els. The 32-year-old handled that crushing defeat with dignity and pledged to finish stronger given another chance. “next time — i’m sure there will be a next time — i can do a better job of it,” he said that day. 
scott was close to perfect, and he had to be with cabrera delivering some brilliance of his own. 
moments after scott made his 20-foot birdie putt on the 18th hole for a 3-under 69 to take a one-shot lead — “c’mon, aussie!” he screamed 
— cabrera answered with an approach that plopped down 3 feet from the cup, one of the greatest shots under the cir­cumstances. That gave him an easy birdie and a 2-under 70. 
They both chipped close for par on the 18th in the first play­off hole, and cabrera’s 15-foot birdie putt on the 10th grazed the right side of the cup. 
with his long putter an­chored against his chest, scott’s putt was true all the way. 
The masters was the only major an australian had never won, and scott was among dozens of golfers who rou­tinely rose in the early hours of monday morning for the telecast, only to watch a horror show. The leading character 

FOR RENT 
2BR, 2BA, 2 car garage. Privacy fence. 424 Eddy St. Call Michiana Rentals LLC 574-993-RENT (7368) 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has 

was greg norman, who had four good chances to win, none better than when he blew a six-shot lead on the last day to nick faldo in 1996. 
There was Jim ferrier in 1952, bruce crampton 20 years later, and scott and Jason day only two years ago. norman, though, was the face of aussie failures at the masters, and scott paid him tribute in butler cabin before he slipped on that beautiful green jacket. 
“australian is a proud sport­ing nation, and this is one notch in the belt we never got,” scott said. “it’s amazing that it came down to me today. but there’s one guy who inspired a nation of golfers, and that’s greg norman. he’s been in­credible to me and all the great golfers. part of this belongs to him.” 
scott was just as gracious in victory as he was last summer at royal lytham & st. annes. he and cabrera flashed a thumbs-up to each other after their shots into the 10th hole in the playoff, and they walked off the 10th green with their arms around each other when it was over. 
“such is golf,” cabrera said. “adam is a good winner.” 
it was a riveting conclusion to a week filled with some awk­ward moments. There was the one-shot penalty called against 14-year-old guan Tianlang that nearly kept the chinese teen from becoming the youngest player to make the cut. There was the illegal drop by Tiger woods, who was given a two-shot penalty over questions and confusion about why he was not disqualified for signing an incorrect card. 
and at the end, there was shot-making at its finest. 
scott didn’t make a bogey after the first hole, and he re­ally didn’t miss a shot the rest of the day on a rainy sunday at augusta. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
many  resources  in  place  to  assist  2010­  Phil  Mickelson  
you. If you or someone you love needs  2009-  Angel  Cabrera  
confidential  support  or  assistance,  2008-  Trevor  Immelman  
please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or  2007­  Zach  Johnson  
Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more  2006­  Phil  Mickelson  
information,  visit  ND’s  website  at:  2005­  Tiger  Woods  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  2004­  Phil  Mickelson  
2003-  Mike  Weir  
Masters  Champions  (1999-2013)  2002­  Tiger  Woods  
2013-  Adam  Scott  2001­  Tiger  Woods  
2012-  Bubba  Watson  2000-  Vijay  Singh  
2011-  Charl  Schwartzel  1999­  Jose  Maria  Olazabal  



ndsmcobserver.com | monday, april 15, 2013 | The observer 

SmC SoFtBall | smc 8, mc 5; smc 9, mc 1 
belles double up on manchester 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
saint mary’s swept a noncon­ference doubleheader at home sunday against manchester, winning 8-5 and 9-1 in five innings. 
with sunday’s pair of victories, saint mary’s (12-10, 2-0 miaa) has won all six home games this year. belles coach erin sullivan said she believes the confidence her team plays with at home has contributed to its home-field success. 
“i think our team was itching to get playing again, and we have been playing extremely well at home,” sullivan said. “it was nice to finally get outside on a beauti­ful day and our team capitalized on the opportunity to play.” 
The spartans (15-11, 7-3 heartland collegiate athletic conference) did not make it too easy on the belles in the first game, jumping out to a 4-0 against the belles’ ace, junior pitcher callie selner. manchester’s pitching kept the belles down through four innings, but senior captain and shortstop emily sherwood’s solo home run built some mo­mentum for saint mary’s. The team scored seven more runs in the bottom of the fifth inning to open up its lead. 
sullivan credited selner and sherwood for their perseverance in helping the team rally back. 
“callie selner was very effec­tive and managed to come back strong after some defensive miscues,” sullivan said. “i think senior emily sherwood had an outstanding day. she hit the sec­ond hr of her career and started our scoring in the first game.” 
sullivan also recognized freshman third baseman Kayla chapman, who went 3-for-6 for the day. after the seven-run fifth inning, the belles cruised to the final margin of 8-5 behind selner’s strong pitching. 
heading into the second game, sullivan said she wanted her players to stick closer to the game plan they had established prior to the first game. 
“we wanted to score first, which did not work in the first game, but we made an adjust­ment for game two,” sullivan said. “we also wanted to bounce back quickly from errors and make sure to capitalize on the other team’s errors. i believe we did this very well and i think it bodes well for our remaining games.” 
chapman was the star of game Two, hitting a game-breaking home run in the third inning. The belles had already stretched their lead to 3-0 by capitalizing on passed balls, but chapman’s three-run home run gave them an insurmountable lead. after the spartans scored a run in the top of the fifth against freshman pitcher sarah burke, the belles responded with three more runs to end the game in the bottom of the inning. 
between chapman’s perfor­mance at the plate, and burke’s pitching in the circle, sullivan said she is happy with how the team’s freshmen have developed this season. 
“we knew from the beginning of the year we would need the freshmen to step up and fill big roles, especially with only five returning players,” sullivan said. “i think they have really bought into the program and are gaining more and more confidence every day.” 
The belles will look to keep their winning streak going when they meet calvin at 3:30 p.m. on Tuesday. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


mlB 
wrigley to receive facelift 
Associated Press 
chicago — The historic home of the chicago cubs will get a $500 million facelift, in­cluding its first electronic out­field video board, as part of a hard-fought agreement an­nounced sunday night between the city of chicago and the ball team. 
wrigley field also will host an expanded number of night games under the announced pact, as part of cubs owner Tom ricketts’ plans to renovate the second-oldest ballpark in the major leagues, boost business and make baseball’s most infa­mous losers competitive again. 
mayor rahm emanuel hailed what the two sides called a “framework” agreement in a joint statement issued sunday night, noting that it includes no taxpayer funding. That had been one of the original re­quests of the ricketts family in a long-running renovation dis­pute that at times involved ev­erything from cranky ballpark neighbors to ward politics and even the re-election campaign of president barack obama. 
“This framework allows the cubs to restore the friendly confines (of wrigley) and pursue their economic goals, while respecting the rights and quality of life of its neighbors,” emanuel said in a news release sent to The associated press. 
still uncertain was how the agreement will sit with own­ers of buildings across the street from wrigley who pro­vide rooftop views of the ball games under an agreement with the cubs that goes back years. This month they threat­ened to sue if the renovations obstruct their views, which they claimed would drive them out of business. 
The statement from emanuel’s office says a “video board” is planned for left field and a second sign would be erected in right field patterned on an existing Toyota sign in left field. The statement does not indicate how large the video screen or second sign would be, saying only that “the cubs will work with the city on placement of both ... to minimize impact on nearby rooftops to the ex­tent consistent with the team’s needs.” 

The city and ball club said they hoped that the agreement would allow the cubs to obtain necessary city approvals for the work by the end of the current baseball season. 
The ricketts family, which bought the cubs in 2009 for $845 million, initially sought tax funding for renovation plans. with that out in the new proposal, the owners will seek to open new revenue streams outside the stadium. under the proposal, the ricketts fam­ily would be allowed to build a 175-room hotel, a plaza, and an office building with retail space and a health club. 
also included in the proposal are plans for 40 night games, four yearly concerts and easing of restrictions on smaller events. currently the team plays about 30 night games. The plan also addresses chronic complaints about parking in the densely populated wrigleyville neigh­borhood, including the addition of 1,000 “remote” parking spots that will be free and come with shuttle service. 
“we are anxious to work with our community as we seek the approvals required to move the project forward,” ricketts said in the statement. 
The site of babe ruth’s “called shot” home run in the 1932 world series and more heart­break than cubs fans would like to remember, the 99-year­old wrigley is only younger than boston’s fenway park. it has long been a treasured showplace for baseball purists 
— night games were only added in 1988 — but team officials for years have desperately wanted a true upgrade, saying it costs as much as $15 million a year just to keep up with basic repairs. 
SmC GolF 
Belles’ weekend washed away 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s was sched­uled to compete in the dutch spring invitational at ravines golf club in saugatuck, mich., but the meet was canceled due to poor weather conditions. 
currently, there is no makeup date in place for the meet, which was to be hosted by fellow miaa conference member hope college. 
The belles finished ninth in a field of 20 teams at their last meet, the washington university in st. louis spring invitational. 
saint mary’s will host the first miaa ncaa qualifier of the season at blackthorn golf club in south bend on wednesday. 
wednesday’s qualifier will be the first of three quali­fying meets, which will de­termine which teams will represent the conference at the ncaa division iii championship. 
The final two qualifiers will be hosted april 26 and 27 by olivet college. 


The observer | monday, april 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

traCk & FiEld | commonwealTh 204, hoosierland 196 
Kentucky wins border battle 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports writer 
in the battle between Kentucky and indiana schools, the hoosierland team of notre dame and indiana fell just short of a third-consecutive louisville border battle victory at saturday’s meet in louisville, Ky. 
going up against the commonwealth team of Kentucky and louisville, the tandem of the irish and the hoosiers managed to keep things interesting even though they lost 204-196. 
senior rebecca Tracy and junior michelle brown set meet records during saturday’s contest. 
Tracy continued to dominate in both the 1,500-meter and 800-me­ter races, bringing home victories and setting the meet record in both events. not to be outdone, brown set a meet record of her own with a 52.62-second time in the women’s 400-meter race. 
senior lauren leniart and ju­nior mary esther gourdin joined the pair on the podium, who tied to win the triple jump.  Junior megan yanik, also walked away as the winner in the 400-meter hurdles. all three athletes were joined by irish teammates in the top-four of their respective events. in the 400-meter hurdles, yanik finished ahead of freshman margaret bamgbose, sophomore michelle rotondo, and junior Jaclyn winkel, respectively. in the triple jump, juniors Kelly burke and Jessie christian contributed third- and fourth-place efforts, respectively. 
on the men’s side, junior logan renwick won both the long jump and the triple jump. in the long jump, renwick narrowly edged out his irish teammate, sophomore 
mEn’S GolF | 11Th place 
Keith mesidor, by only 0.06 meters. 
notre dame dominated the men’s 400-meter race, as sopho­more chris giesting, junior patrick feeney, and senior brendan dougherty took the top three places. giesting said the close competition between teammates is nothing new. 
“we are all competitive and we don’t like losing, even to each oth­er, so the fact that we have to run against each other everyday just brings out the competitor in all of us to get better,” giesting said. “we go into each practice with the motto [that we’re] just trying to get better.” 
despite being on the losing side, the irish men and women combined for 43 top-five finishes. 

giesting said the meet gave the irish many positives to build on for their next competition, even though they did not walk away the victors.. 
“it was a bummer that we lost this weekend, but there are bigger things ahead of us,” he said. “This meet was more of a friendly com­petition. we have our goals set on the big east championship, and after that qualifying for nationals.” 
The irish will split up Thursday, with some team members com­peting in walnut, calif., for the mt. sac relays and others traveling to bloomington, ind., for the polytan invitational. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 

ND suffers from slow start 
By D.H. KIM 
sports writer    
The irish concluded play at the two-day hawkeye invitational in iowa city, iowa, with a final score of 901 (310-292-299), placing them 11th in the 12-team field. 
irish coach Jim Kubinski said his team played inconsistent each day, which caused the irish to fall in the standings. 
“well, we put ourselves in a tough position with that first round,” Kubinski said. “our ex­pectation the last couple of events was to get those four solid scores each round, and it’s not a reflec­tion of what we can achieve, but it is where we stand at this point in time.” 
Junior niall platt was one of the few consistent players throughout the three rounds, finishing tied for 11th place (74-73-72). on sunday, he posted a birdie on the 15th hole but bogeyed the 17th and 18th holes to finish with a third round score of 74. mcnamara also shot a 74 in the third round, finishing with two double bogeys, one bo­gey and three birdies, but finished in 58th place overall (81-78-74). freshman cory sciupider did not match his second round score of 67 (-5) sunday, but he shot a four-over par, 76 to tie for 21st overall (80-67-76). 
“i was very pleased at our abil­ity to play a solid round in the af­ternoon, aided by cory’s 67 and niall’s steady play,” Kubinski said. 
some irish golfers had difficulty finishing their last few holes in the final round. Junior andrew lane tallied five bogeys and one double bogey in his last nine holes to fin­ish with a 78 for the third round. sophomore Tyler wingo had an outstanding eagle on 15, but could not hold the momentum, as he re­corded a double bogey on the 18th hole to bring his third round score down to 75 
despite placing second-to­last and struggles in the last few holes, the irish managed to find some positives from the hawkeye invitational, Kubinski said. 
“we have seen some good things,” he said. “niall has started to find his form and learned a lot about himself so far this season. cory, as a freshman, has played brilliant stretches and shown a very high ceiling.” 
Kansas won the event with a score of 867 (286-290-291). 
Kubinski said his squad would look to take the positives from the event and start anew. 
“The neat thing for us is that the regular season is over and behind us now,” Kubinski said. “we get a clean slate, and our talent hasn’t changed.” 
The irish will prepare for the big east championships, which will be held from april 28-30 at reunion resort watson course in orlando, fla. 
Contact D.H. Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 
nd WomEn’S tEnniS | nd 6, ucf 1; nd 5, usf 2 
irish take two wins in florida 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
despite battling unfamil­iar conditions on the outdoor courts, the no. 25 irish snatched two victories this weekend, tak­ing down central florida 6-1 on saturday and winning a long match against no. 56 south florida 5-2 on sunday. 
senior captain chrissie mcgaffigan said the irish (14­8, 3-0 big east) excelled despite playing in very warm weather. 
“it was really hot and humid both days we competed, which we are definitely not used to, mcgaffigan said.” 
The irish took control early on against central florida (13­7, 1-1 conference usa), claim­ing the doubles point with easy 8-2 victories at no. 1 and no. 2 doubles. 
in singles, the irish dropped only one contest, as no. 40 ju­nior britney sanders, lost her match 4-6, 6-4, 10-3 to Knights senior genevieve lorbergs. The irish swept the remainder of singles play to claim the 6-1 victory. freshman Julie vrabel who filled in for injured sopho­more molly o’Koniewski, won her first career singles match at the no. 6 position. 
“Julie vrabel had a really good match,” mcgaffigan said. “she was really able to step up her performance. it was tough to play without molly, but we knew she was rooting for us from home.” 
against south florida (12­7, 6-1), the doubles pair of freshman Quinn gleason and sophomore Katherine white dropped their match 5-4 at the no. 3 spot. The no. 60 duo of mcgaffigan and junior captain Jennifer Kellner and the no. 63 pair of sanders and junior Julie sabacinski won their matches 8-6 and 8-1, respectively, to claim the doubles point for the irish. 
notre dame faced some long matches in singles play. sanders won her match in three sets, claiming a 7-5, 4-6, 6-3 victory over bulls senior Katie vasenina. Kellner also brought her match to three sets, but lost 6-4 in the third to give the bulls their first point. 
despite a loss at no. 5 singles by Katherine white, the irish pulled off a 5-2 victory with wins at nos. 3, 4 and 6 singles. vrabel dropped her first set at no. 6 singles but recovered to win in a 1-6, 6-4, 6-4 victory over junior alessandra bonte. 
mcgaffigan said the south florida match was a battle from the start. 
“south florida has a really talented team,” mcgaffigan said. “we had to bright our ‘a game’ in order to beat them.” 
with two wins in the hot outdoor conditions of florida under their belt, the irish now turn their attention to the big east championships, which be­gin Thursday. 
“it will be a quick turn­around,” mcgaffigan said. “i think these matches were great preparation for the big east tournament, which will also be held in florida.” 
The irish are back in action in the first round of the big east championships, which start Thursday in Tampa, fla. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | monday, april 15, 2013 | The observer 




Halfpenny 
conTinued from page 20 
have to limit our turnovers be­cause our turnovers led to their ground balls and gave them 11 extra possessions,” halfpenny said friday night. “at the end of the day, i think that’s how they continued to come back and ultimately have one more goal than we did at the end of the game.” 
The irish rebounded from their first loss by defeating the hoyas (9-3, 3-0) on sunday in a game that featured numerous scoring runs. 
after irish junior attack lindsay powell scored just 18 seconds into the game, georgetown scored three con­secutive goals to take the early lead. notre dame soon turned the tide, finishing the half on a 3-1 run to knot the game up. 
“i think you had two top-10 teams coming at each other and when we both found our rhythms, we were both hard to stop,” halfpenny said. “when we had our crisp passing and our talking, i think we were able to do what we wanted to do.” 
notre dame came out of the half firing on all cylinders, as the irish scored four goals in a three-and-a-half minute stretch to open the lead up to 8-4. georgetown quickly clawed right back with a 4-0 run to tie the game at the 14-minute mark. 
The irish emerged revitalized from halfpenny’s subsequent timeout and took the lead on freshman midfielder stephanie Toy’s goal at the 12:40 mark. The irish then scored four of the game’s next five goals to take a 13-9 lead. georgetown chipped at the deficit with a last-gasp offensive blitz that featured three goals in the last minute, but it was not enough and notre dame held on for the 13-12 win. 
irish senior goalie ellie hilling made a season-high 14 saves against the hoyas, while sophomore midfielder caitlin gargan led the offense with four goals. 
“i think [ellie’s] eight stops in the first half really fueled our entire team, and our offense looked at ellie hilling and said, ‘you’re making those stops, we’re going to go ahead and do our job,’” halfpenny said. “she was definitely the story of the game, but our freshmen and sophomores who came off the bench were amazing today and critical to the success as well.” 
irish senior attack and co-captain Jaimie morrison sat out sunday after totaling six points against loyola. halfpenny said the decision to sit morrison out was a personal one and noted the senior would play in the team’s next game. 
“she got a couple of bumps and bruises friday night, so we decided it was just best to al­low her to recover from friday,” halfpenny said. 
notre dame will travel to face no. 6 syracuse on friday and no. 18 connecticut on sunday. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
BaSEBall | piTT 4, nd 0; piTT 4, nd 2; piTT 12, nd 3 
losing streak extends to five 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
luck plays a big part in the outcome of every baseball game, but the no. 16 irish couldn’t find any in pittsburgh, as the panthers swept the weekend by 4-0, 4-2 and 12-3. 
notre dame (19-14, 4-8 big east) has now lost five games in a row. 


“we just continued a pretty prodigious streak of bad luck,” irish coach mik aoki. “i don’t think we played poorly, but we didn’t do enough to win.” 
sophomore right-hander pat connaughton gave up three earned runs in 4.2 innings friday night. The panthers (24-9, 6-3) took the lead in the bottom of the second when connaughton gave up a single and a triple, and then added two more in the fifth inning. connaughton has thrown just 14 innings in four starts and has a record of 0-2 with a 3.21 era. 
“we still needed to limit his pitch counts,” aoki said of connaughton. “he can’t come off the basketball court and be expected to throw 100 pitches in a game. it would be irre­sponsible of us.” 
freshman and junior right-handers nick mccarty and donnie hissa each threw 1.1 innings of scoreless relief, but the irish couldn’t get a break off panthers’ junior right-hand­er ethan mildren, who gave up just three hits in his third straight complete game. 
senior pitcher adam norton got the start in saturday’s game, pitching into the eighth inning in his first loss of the year. he gave up two runs in the second inning, but, with the bases loaded with no outs, he struck out the next two bat­ters and then coaxed a ground out to keep the game under control. 
The irish got back in the game in the fourth inning, as freshman right fielder Zak Kutsulis hit a leadoff double and junior third baseman eric Jagielo tied the score with a two-run home run. 
norton gave up a run in both the fifth and eighth innings, but the irish had an opportu­nity to tie the game in the top of ninth when senior center-fielder charlie markson came to bat with sophomore desig­nated hitter blaise lezynski on base. markson hit the ball right back at the pittsburgh pitcher, but it bounced right to the first baseman, who grabbed it and stepped on first base to end the game. 
sophomore right-hander matt Ternowchek took the mound in sunday’s getaway game, which was scoreless un­til the bottom of the fifth. he walked the first batter of the fifth inning, struck out the next and walked another before giv­ing up a home run to junior outfielder stephen vranka. 
The irish lost control of the game in the innings that fol­lowed, giving up five runs in the sixth and four in the eighth. 
“it kind of has a cumulative effect,” aoki said of his team’s losses. “i think it takes a lot of mental fortitude to continue to look at the glass half full rather than half empty.” 
although the weekend was a frustrating one for the irish, aoki said he’s not yet worried. 
“we’ve just got to get out there and turn the tide a little bit, and i don’t think it’s any­thing that a win or two in a row wouldn’t fix,” aoki said. “i think there were lots of silver linings today, and now we’ve just got to put it together into one solid weekend where hope­fully some of the balls that we hit find a little green grass to roll around on.” 
The irish will try to break their losing streak when they travel to ann arbor, mich., to meet the wolverines on Tuesday at 4:05 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | monday, april 15, 2013 | The observer 





By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
in an emotionally charged weekend, the irish did more than sweep rutgers in a three-game series — they played the third annual strikeout cancer event to raise money for leuke­mia patients. 
“it was a beautiful week­end,” senior pitcher brittany o’donnell said. “To give back to those patients who fight every day was great for us as a notre dame softball program.” 
The strikeout cancer fund­raiser was created in support of irish coach deanna gumpf’s daughter, Tatum, who was di­agnosed with leukemia in 2010. strikeout cancer events were held around a game on saturday and a doubleheader on sunday. fans were encouraged to wear orange in support of the cause. 
despite early snow flurries saturday, the irish (29-10, 10-1 big east) took control early on an rbi by sophomore outfielder emilee Koerner in the bottom of the first. in the top of the third in­ning, rutgers (23-18, 6-8) pulled ahead 2-1 with an rbi single. 
sophomore catcher cassidy whidden reclaimed the lead for the irish in the bottom of the third with a two-out grand slam over the left field fence to give the irish a 5-2 advantage. a solo home run from sophomore infielder Katey haus made the irish lead 6-2 at the end of the third. 
notre dame sealed its victory in the bottom of the fifth. after two rutgers errors scored irish players to bring the score to 8-2, freshman pinch hitter casey africano hit a three-run homer, the first of her collegiate career. 
in sunday’s opener, notre dame took control in the bottom of the first with an rbi double from Koerner. africano hit her second collegiate homerun, a two-run shot over the left-field fence, to bring the score to 3-0 

nd SoFtBall | nd 11, ruTgers 2; nd 5, ruTgers 1; nd 8, ruTgers 6 
bats power series sweep 
irish in the bottom of the sec­ond. an rbi double by africano at the bottom of the third gave the irish a 4-0 lead heading into the fourth inning. 
another home run, this time by freshman infielder micaela arizmendi in the bottom of the fifth, gave the irish a 5-0 lead. 
in the top of the sixth, rutgers claimed their only run of the contest, an rbi double increas­ing the final score to 5-1. 
in game two, the scarlet Knight pulled ahead early, tak­ing a 6-1 lead into the seventh. a two-run single from junior in­fielder chloe saganowich start­ed the irish comeback. Two more rbi singles in the seventh left the irish trailing 6-5. whidden completed the comeback with a three-run homerun to give notre dame the 8-6 victory. 
o’donnell said each contest against rutgers taught notre dame valuable lessons about what the team needs to do to win. 
“i think we learned a lot about ourselves as a team this week­end,” o’donnell said. “The key to a great team is having team­mates that will rise to the occa­sion when the game is on the line and that’s the special ingredient this group has. we are a team of fighters.” 
despite the thrill associated with the team’s three victories, o’donnell said the weekend was about more than just winning a few softball games. 
“The best part of the weekend was definitely supporting Tatum and her friends,” o’donnell said. 
The irish will be back in action Tuesday with a game against michigan state at 5 p.m. in east lansing, mich. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
mEn’S tEnniS | nd 5, louisville 2 
irish claim win over big east rival 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
on saturday, no. 32 notre dame earned a 5-2 win against big east oppo­nent no. 47 louisville in its final dual match of the sea­son, increasing its winning streak to six consecutive matches. 
The irish finished 3-0 in conference play, which made them the favorite for the no. 1 seed heading into the big east championships next weekend. saturday’s victory marked the first 
irish  win  at  louisville’s  
bass-rudd  Tennis  center  
since 2007.  

“overall. i think the re­cent [winning] streak plays a huge factor and we [have used] that to our advan­tage,” sophomore mike fredericka said. 
The irish (16-7) took the lead from the beginning, winning the doubles point when juniors greg andrews and matt dooley took down the opposing duo of fresh­man Jeffrey brown and sophomore chris simich 8-1 at no. 3 doubles and the no. 82 duo of junior billy pecor and freshman alex lawson took down cardinals sophomore albert wagner and fresh­man alex gornet 8-2 at the no. 1 court. 
“i think our doubles are really starting to click now, which is really important for us heading into the tournament,” fredericka said. 
singles play started off shakily for notre dame — the irish dropped the first singles match on court no. 
3. from there, the irish did not hesitate to regain con­trol. They won four con­secutive singles matches to seal the win. 
no. 89 andrews started the momentum swing for the irish by defeating no. 66 sophomore sebastian stiefelmeyer 6-4, 6-1 at no. 1 singles. freshman Quentin monaghan fol­lowed his lead, defeating wagner 6-3, 6-2 at the no. 2 position. pecor clinched the win at no. 4 singles, which increased the irish lead to 4-1 when he took louisville sophomore michael lippens to three sets and won 1-6, 6-3, 6-0. 
with the win secured, sophomore wyatt mccoy added the final singles vic­tory for the irish side, beat­ing gornet 6-2, 6-7, 10-7 on court no. 5. 
now the squad looks to the next step, using the week to prepare for the big east championships. 
“we want to have a great week of practice with a lot of energy and carry that energy with us into the tournament this weekend,” fredericka said. 
notre dame will next be­gin competition at the big east championships, which begin Thursday at eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
SmC tEnniS | smc 5, alma 4 
belles win on strength of singles 
By D.H. KIM 
sports writer 
saint mary’s edged confer­ence rival alma 5-4 in a close-ly-contested match saturday afternoon in east lansing, mich. 
The belles (8-5, 3-1 miaa) struggled in doubles play saturday, losing two of the three doubles matches. The team rebounded, however, to win four of six singles match­es and take the overall victory. 
“we realized we needed to focus on each match equally and win our singles matches,” belles coach dale campbell said. 
Junior mary catherine faller and sophomore Kayle sexton defeated the scots (7-9, 3-4) 8-6 at no. 1 doubles. faller and sexton then delivered with key wins at no. 1 and no. 2 singles, respectively. faller won her match 7-5, 6-4, while sexton defeated her opponent by a score of 6-1, 6-1. 
“The alma match was a re­
“Everyone fought through their matches until the very end.” 
Dale Campbell 
Belles coach 
minder that every singles match counts no matter what position,” faller said. “everyone fought through their matches until the very end, and it felt great to have those big wins under our belts.” 
sophomores audrey Kiefer and Jackie Kjolhede could not hold at tiebreak at no. 2 doubles and lost 9-8, 8-6 in a nail-biting match. Kjolhede rebounded to win her singles match in straight sets.  belles sophomore shannon elliott fell 8-2 at no. 3 doubles, but had a comeback win at no. 3 singles in a 3-6, 6-0, 6-3 decision. 
The belles currently sit in fourth place in the miaa, a half game behind Kalamazoo. The top four teams in the con­ference make the conference tournament, which begins may 2 . 
The belles will host adrian on Tuesday afternoon at 4 p.m. 
Contact D.H. Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 


The observer | monday, april 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


fuel for his sophomore season. game now. i’m trying to break 
“i’m trying to take my game it down one by one each and ev­to the next level to be one of the ery day. Just work on something elite corners as far as under-little each and every day.” standing film, understanding routes, concepts,” russell said. Contact Mike Monaco at “i’m trying to understand the jmonaco@nd.edu 
russell 
conTinued from page 20 
island — like [new york Jets cor­nerback darrelle] revis island. That’s his island. you’re not go­ing to catch anything over here, and i think that aspect of my mindset is totally different than it was last year.” 
as a freshman starting on one of the nation’s best defenses, russell said he played timidly because he was fearful of fail­ing the team and letting people down. unsure of himself, the freshman found guidance and garnered support from defen­sive coordinator bob diaco, cornerbacks coach Kerry cooks and former irish linebacker manti Te’o. 
“he used to take me in, just me and him, and talk,” russell said of Te’o. “he’d be like ‘man, you can do it. coach wouldn’t put you in as a freshman if he didn’t think you could do the job.’” 
and as the season went on, russell’s fear of failure be­gan to dissipate. heading into the oklahoma game oct. 27, russell and the irish were pre­paring for sooners quarterback landry Jones, receiver Kenny stills and the rest of the vaunted oklahoma passing attack. but after holding the sooners to just 13 points and no touchdowns through the air, the freshman cornerback’s confidence level rose. 
“The coaches said they be­lieved in me after that game,” russell said. “and i’m like ‘ok, we’ve got to get going.’ i always knew i had the talent and every­thing, but that only goes so far. you’ve got to have that mind­set, that savviness. you want to go out there and ball out and just dominate whoever you go against.” 
now, russell is lining up across from junior receiver davaris daniels and senior re­ceiver T.J. Jones and seeking out the pressure he shied from prior to the oklahoma win. 
“last year, i was kind of tim­id,” russell said. “right now, when i go against T.J. or i go against davaris, i feel like i can play against anybody for sure. … i think [the key has been] just getting over that factor of fear, fear of letting people down. i like when i have the pressure on me now.” 
despite his new swagger, russell said he won’t get too confident at the risk of compla­cency. The sophomore said his freshman year success doesn’t mean he’ll be in the starting lineup when the irish open their season aug. 31 against Temple. 
“i’ve been working my tail off like i don’t have a spot, like i’ve never had a spot,” russell said. “i feel like it’s threatened every day. That’s how i look at it.” 
russell would go to cooks last season and ask what he need­ed to do to get better. The two came up with film of over 100 plays from the season in which russell did something poorly. russell said the plays — missed tackles, bad coverages — look “terrible” and have served as 
Comeback 
conTinued from page 20 
think that made a pretty big difference.” 
rogers finished with two goals and two assists, Kavanagh found the back of the net twice and doyle added two as well. senior midfielder ryan foley, junior attackman John scioscia and junior at­tackman westy hopkins each had one goal. 
The early onslaught by georgetown was certainly a surprise, but it’s something that notre dame should expect. as one of the top-ranked teams in the country, the irish will get every team’s best, corrigan said. 
“it’s something that i think everybody in college lacrosse is learning,” corrigan said. “and i hope our guys got the lesson drilled today as well as you can. There’s just noth­ing easy out there. There are no easy quarters, there are no easy games, and there are not easy opponents. if you don’t come to play, somebody’s go­ing to bring it to you just like georgetown did to us in the first quarter.” 
when the new rankings are released today, notre dame has a chance to move back to no. 1. maryland, the cur­rent no. 1, lost to no. 15 Johns hopkins on saturday and no. 2 cornell lost at syracuse on wednesday. no. 3 north carolina is ahead of notre dame in the rankings, but the irish could jump the Tar heels because of the head-to­head advantage. 
but what matters most to the irish is its final home game of the year, which takes place saturday at arlotta stadium against villanova at 2 p.m. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | monday, april 15, 2013 | The observer 




CroSSWord | will shorTZ 


HiGHly punlikEly | chrisTopher brucKer 
Sudoku | The mepham group 



loWEr your ExpECtationS | lenny rago & paTricKcross 

HoroSCopE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: abigail breslin, 17; sarah michelle gellar, 36; adrien brody, 40; brad garrett, 53 
Happy Birthday: don’t cave under pressure. stand up to anyone trying to manipu­late or control your life. focus on your abilities and utilize your skills masterfully. look at the big picture and take advantage of your past experience. getting back to your roots and reconnecting with people who have something to contribute will bring positive results. love is highlighted. your numbers are 6, 14, 21, 27, 35, 38, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): set your goals and stick to them. expressing your plans and elaborating on the possibilities will drum up interest and support. socialize or take part in entertaining events that can enhance your personal life and love relationships.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): suspicions must not be ignored. your intuition is trying to tell you something and you should listen. secret plans or endeavors with people from your past are likely. protect your emotions and your assets. stay in control. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): getting together with old friends will lead to revisiting an old idea. using your skills and talent to get ahead may seem too easy, but it can probably turn out to be lucrative if you keep at it. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take your time and hear what everyone has to say be­fore you make a final decision regarding a personal or financial change. problems with people putting pressure on you must be handled delicately. There is nothing wrong with saying “no” nicely. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): plan a fun day. round up the people you enjoy spending time with most. a trip or a cultural event that will broaden your interests and your knowledge should be considered. helping a cause will enhance your reputation. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): stick to basics and what you know and do best. ventur­ing too far from your comfort zone will lead to expenses and emotional upsets you’d prefer to avoid. your quest for knowledge or picking up a new skill should be your focus. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): enjoy whatever excitement you can drum up through travel, socializing or spending time with someone special. love is highlighted and making a commitment to someone will help secure your life and stabilize your future. expand your horizons and your friendships. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): stick close to home and work toward turning your surroundings into a better work and entertainment space. a creative environment will lead to unique ideas and plans for the future, but stick to a set budget to avoid stress. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): love will play an important role in the way you move forward with your personal and professional plans. changing your location or altering the way you live can be the boost you need to regenerate and advance. make a commitment. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): listen to what’s being said, but do what’s best for you. it isn’t likely you will be able to please everyone, no matter how much you bend. problems with authority figures, neighbors or peers can be expected. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): rearranging your living space or making a move from one location to another will enhance your life and give you a revived sense of what you want to accomplish and how you are going to go about doing so. love is highlighted. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): practicality coupled with honesty will be a must if you are going to reach your goals. consider the facts and reassess past problems and you’ll realize you may have made a mistake. backtrack and do what’s right so you can move forward. 

Birthday Baby: you are quick to react. you are persuasive, aggressive and focused. 
JumBlE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester name 
address 
city 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
     state Zip 


The observer | monday, april 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FootBall 
Sophomore swagger 

Cornerback KeiVarae Russell finds his confidence entering Year Two 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
it was the eighth practice of the spring, and sophomore cor­nerback Keivarae russell was feeling good. he was having what he considered his best day of football yet. and when russell feels good, he talks. a lot. 
“you’ve got to play a little ar­rogant,” russell said after the early-april practice. “i was talk­ing to [early enrollee receiver] James onwualu. he came to my side one time, and they didn’t throw it. i was like ‘They ain’t throwing to you all day, man. every time, you came this way and they still ain’t throwing it.’ and then every time they did throw it, it would get knocked down or overthrown. and i was like ‘bro, you better stop coming over here.’” 
fresh off a rookie campaign in which he started all 13 games at cornerback for the irish, russell said his confidence has grown immensely heading into year two. as a result, the fast-talking, always chirping, 5-foot-11 cor­nerback has been showing off his newfound swagger through­out the spring. 
“every day before we do 11­on-11, coach says ‘show me something. let’s go.’ and i love that feeling,” russell said. “it’s like ‘ok, let’s do it. Throw the ball my way. Throw it over here. let’s make plays.’” 
and though russell made plenty of plays last season — he recorded two interceptions and was fifth on the team with 58 tackles — the everett, wash., native says he has a completely different mentality than he did in 2012. 
“[arrogance on the field] comes with the territory of playing corner,” russell said. “whether someone catches a touchdown on you or not, you’ve just got to feel like this is my 
see russell paGE 18 

mEn’S laCroSSE | nd 10, georgeTown 8 
Irish recover to top Hoyas 
WomEn’S laCroSSE | loyola 14, nd 13; nd 13, g’Town 12 
notre dame splits difficult weekend 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
no. 5 notre dame found itself on the opposite ends of its two one-goal games this weekend, as the irish fell to no. 20 loyola (md.), 14-13, on friday before de­feating no. 8 georgetown, 13-12, on sunday at arlotta stadium. 
notre dame’s season-opening winning streak came to an end at 10 games friday night when the irish lost to loyola in double overtime. 
greyhounds sophomore mid­fielder sydney Thomas recov­ered a notre dame turnover and passed it ahead to sophomore attack hannah schmitt, who beat hilling in a one-on-one op­portunity for the sudden death goal just 1:21 into the second overtime. 
schmitt’s game-winning goal came after a thrilling first over­time that saw both teams score. notre dame (11-1, 5-1 big east) took the lead when junior mid­fielder margaret smith scored with 1:17 left in the period, but loyola (7-6, 3-1) tied it right back eight seconds later, as junior midfielder marlee paton won the draw and dashed downfield for the score. 
paton and schmitt caused trouble for the irish defense all game, as they combined to score eight of loyola’s goals. paton had five goals, while schmitt added a hat trick. 
“[marlee] had the ability to win that final draw in the first overtime and go one-on-one down to the goal, so i think it was more in the transition that she gave us trouble,” halfpenny said after the game. “obviously, hannah just made plays when she had to make plays.” 
notre dame jumped out to a strong start, taking a 5-3 lead at the 14:32 mark of the first half. loyola, however, went on a 5-1 run to take an 8-6 lead into the half, which culminated in a buzzer-beater, scored by senior attack Joanna dalton. 
in the second half, notre dame clawed back from a three-goal deficit to take the lead on smith’s goal at the 12:04 mark, but the greyhounds forced overtime af­ter schmitt scored with 4:12 left in the period. 
The irish committed 21 turn­overs on the night, including four in overtime. halfpenny said her team’s mistakes gave loyola several extra offensive opportunities. 
“The biggest thing we’ll take away from the game is that we 
see halfpenny paGE 15 


By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
no. 4 notre dame rallied from an early 4-0 deficit to beat georgetown 10-8 on sunday in arlotta stadium. 
The hoyas (5-7, 2-2 big east) converted on their first four shots, which prompted irish coach Kevin corrigan to call a timeout midway through the first quarter. 
“i don’t know why we came out so tentatively, but we did,” corrigan said. “That was not [senior goalie] John Kemp. That was our defense and John Kemp not being all over what he should be, which is everybody. 

KEVIN SONG | The Observer 
Sophomore cornerback KeiVarae Russell, right, talks to junior cornerback Josh Atkinson before a drill dur­ing an April 4 practice at Loftus Sports Center. Russell started all 13 games as a freshman last season. 

That’s our whole team. we were giving up possessions and ev­erything else.” 
when corrigan called the timeout, his goal wasn’t to switch strategies or make major changes. rather, he just wanted to give his team a chance to refocus. 
“i didn’t change anything,” corrigan said. “i just chal­lenged our guys a little bit be­cause i didn’t think we were being as aggressive or assertive as we needed to be in a lot of different instances. i’m happy to see them respond in a posi­tive way like they did.” 
senior attackman sean rogers broke the ice with an assist from freshman attack-man matt Kavanagh. senior midfielder Ty Kimball scored on a feed from sophomore at­tackman conor doyle. 
at the end of the first quarter, the irish (8-2, 3-1) trailed 5-2. 
“from the end of the first quarter on, i thought we played well” corrigan said. “our guys showed a lot of fight. The ground balls became key, and i thought we fought for those as well as we should.” 
over the last 45 minutes of play, notre dame allowed only three goals. overall, the irish outshot the hoyas 42-22 and won 13 of the 22 face-offs. 
in the second half, the irish offense picked up pace and the team’s defense did a much better job covering the hoyas, which allowed the irish to seize control of the game. 
“i’ve got to give our defense credit,” corrigan said. “we were struggling early. we were struggling to play their action, and we were struggling to cover some of their guys. while we did a good job collectively as a team defense, we asserted ourselves in some of our indi­vidual matchups a little more. That helped a lot because we didn’t have to show and slide so much. we were able to stay with our guys a little bit more, and i 
see comebacK paGE 18 




