The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 89 | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘That weak bodies may be nourished’ 
Men’s boxing club opens annual tournament tonight, raises funds for missions in Bangladesh 
By NICOLE McALEE 
news writer 
guided by the motto “strong bodies fight, that weak bod­ies may be nourished,” notre dame boxers will lace up their gloves tonight for the prelimi­nary rounds of the 83rd in­stallment of the bengal bouts boxing tournament. 
Famed notre dame foot­ball coach knute rockne founded a boxing tourna­ment at notre dame in 1920, but the tournament’s current purpose — to raise funds for the holy cross missions in bangladesh — was solidified in 1931 by bengal bouts director dominic “nappy” napolitano, who coined the “strong bodies fight” motto.  
senior captain Jeffrey ulrich said bengal bouts is instru­mental in improving the lives of bengalis served by the holy cross missions, which use tournament proceeds to build schools and clinics and em­power people through educa­tion and poverty relief. 
“bengal bouts is the main contributor in fund­ing schools, medical facili­ties and students’ expenses in the holy cross missions in bangladesh,” ulrich said. “The biggest impact we make is in giving people the opportunity to make their own path in the world, since most families are relegated to a limited number of social, professional and eco­nomic statuses.” 
The club reinforced its rela­tionship with bangladesh in 2008 when five notre dame boxers and a camera crew trav­eled to the country to volunteer at the holy cross missions for the first time. Their experienc­es were captured in the docu­mentary “strong bodies Fight,” directed by notre dame film professor william donaruma. 

This year, captains daniel yi, pat bishop and danny leicht, along with junior ian cronin, continued the tradition of serv­ing in bangladesh for the fifth year in a row. 
yi said he was able to experi­ence the work of the holy cross missions throughout his sum­mer in bangladesh. 
“i was fortunate enough to be chosen as one of four boxers to go to bangladesh, and i got to see firsthand the work that bengal bouts has helped ac­complish,” he said. 
senior captain ryan alberdi said participating in bengal bouts has a deep impact on both the boxer and the bengali people. 
“every day, bengal bouts is changing the lives of the box­ers in the program and their bengali friends on the other side of the world,” he said. break, alberdi said. 

This year, 165 notre dame “it has been about four men will fight in the tourna-months of training,” he said. ment after training intensively since the monday after fall see bouTs PAGE 5 



lecture honors lincoln’s legacy 

By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
in honor of president abraham lincoln’s birth­day, yale professor steven smith defended the legend­ary president’s “constitu­tional” leadership style at the “lincoln’s constitution” lec­ture Tuesday. 
“There is virtual consensus that abraham lincoln was an exemplary leader, but there are lessons to be drawn on his style of leadership,” smith said. 
smith, who published an anthology of lincoln’s writings in 2012, said the self-constraint lincoln 
see lincoln PAGE 4 





Coccia and Joyce share vision for next year 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 

one day after finding out they would be notre dame’s 2013-14 student body presi­dent and vice president, ju­niors alex coccia and nancy Joyce said they are ready to hit the ground running. 
“[we’re] still very excited and humbled to have won but also very aware of the fact that day one is tomor­row for me,” Joyce, who will begin sitting in on student senate meetings tomorrow, said. “i think that’s really where the work starts.” 
GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 
in the weeks leading up to 
Juniors Alex Coccia, right, and Nancy Joyce, left, participate in the 
the april 1 student govern-

runoff debate Sunday night in LaFortune Student Center. 
ment turnover, coccia said he will focus on obtaining as just by going door to door, the coccia-Joyce platform, much input from students as but i think having more in-coccia said. possible. depth conversations with “one of the biggest things 
“it’s going to be a lot of people should be [helpful].” in our platform is the town talking with as many people a primary method for fa-hall idea, which is some-as possible,” he said. “we got cilitating this continuing thing — if we want to get a really good sense of what dialogue will be instituting students are interested in the town forum outlined in see vision PAGE 5 


Flower shop preps for holiday 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
valentine’s day is right around the corner, but the student managers at irish gardens have been preparing for the flower-heavy holiday for more than two months. 
planning for the busiest business week of the year for the completely student-run, independent floral shop began in december, general manager krystal hentges said. on an average business day, irish gardens places ap­proximately $100 in flower orders, but hentges said that figure jumps to nearly $1,000 per day during the valentine’s 
see gardens PAGE 5 


smc lecTure series PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 bengal bouTs PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
How do you feel about squirrels? 


Cristin Pacifico 
sophomore 
badin hall 
“i took a video of squirrels chasing each other last week.” 
Timmy Brazelton 
junior 
carroll hall 
“squirrels are my favorite.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

Kevin Phan 
junior 
carroll hall 
“i feed them cornbread from south dining hall.” 
Cheyney McWilliams 
junior 
Fisher hall 
“love ‘em.” 
Jack Shadid 
junior 
keough hall 
“squirrels are goooood.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

kristen durbin Jack hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
christian myers laura coletti catherine owers rich hidy 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
steph wulz ankur chawla 
Photo Viewpoint 

83rd Annual Bengal SonnetFest 2013 Business Lecture Men’s Tennis Mass 
Jodi lo dan brombach 
Bouts Preliminaries O’Shaugnessy Hall Mendoza College of Eck Tennis Pavilion Basilica of the Sacred Joyce Center 11 a.m.-3 p.m. Business 12 p.m.- 2 p.m. Heart 6 p.m.-10 p.m. Public reading of 10:40 a.m.-12:10 p.m. Notre Dame vs. 10 a.m. and 11:45 a.m. 
Corrections 

Men’s boxing Shakespeare’s 154 Speaker: Julia Michigan. Catholic Mass. 
The observer regards itself as tournament opens. sonnets. Silverman. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Men’s Basketball No More Deaths CSC Open House Notre Dame Jazz Family FIRST Class 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Purcell Pavillion Geddes Hall Coleman-Morse Band Rockne Memorial 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m. 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Center DeBartolo Performing 1 p.m.-2 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Notre Dame vs. Presentation by 6 p.m.-7 p.m. Arts Center Parents and children 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
DePaul. desert aid workers in Part of Junior Parents 2 p.m.-3 p.m. invited to class at the 
we can correct our error. 

the Sonoran Desert. Weekend. Annual JPW concert. climbing wall. 


Series brings international professionals to College 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
news writer 
The saint mary’s college department of global studies announced Thomas herder, general counsel of the energy division of siemens ag, as the inaugu­ral speaker of its new lecture series, titled “on developing global mindset.” 
“we are delighted to have Tom herder as our inaugural speaker in the series,” de­partment chair and business professor Jill vihtelic said. “he values [a] global mind­set and women’s roles in glo­balization. he will offer good insight to our students.” 
in his role at the munich­based electronics and elec­trical engineering company, herder manages a global de­partment of more than 150 lawyers, contract managers, paralegals and support staff located in more than 20 lo­cations in eight countries. 
This broad experience and insight makes him an ideal addition to a speaker se­ries highlighting people in successful global careers, vihtelic said. 
“we want students to hear firsthand how they can de­velop a global mindset,” vihtelic said. “we want students to be able to dia­logue with him and learn what his job is, what edu­cation prepared him for his role in the company and what sort of previous experi­ences he has had abroad.” 
herder is no newcomer to saint mary’s college. he and his wife, sally herder, a 1978 alumna, are co-chairs of the saint mary’s college parent council, and their daughter, 
“We want to students to hear firsthand how they can develop a global mindset.” 
Jill Vihtelic 
department chair 
Global Studies 
Julie, is a senior communi­cations major. (editors note: Julie is employed as a pho­tographer for The observer.) 
susan dampeer, assistant to college president carol ann mooney, recommended herder as a potential speak­er, vihtelic said. 
“as the parents of a senior, they understand the impor­tance of bringing real world 
paid adverTisemenT 

experience to our students,” dampeer said. “mr. herder’s talk about his career in in­ternational law should be both informative and inspi­rational to our students.” 
Though the global studies major is a new addition to the college’s curriculum, vihtelic said its students can already begin consider­ing career paths in the in­ternational job market that tie into the department’s business and economics concentrations. 
“an important part of this major is not only aca­demic skill, but to also get our students thinking about different professional op­portunities,” vihtelic said. “a speaker like mr. herder complements the business concentration of the major.” 
but global studies stu­dents are by no means lim­ited to careers in business, vihtelic said. 
“For future lectures in the series, we would like to in­clude government officials, non-profit organizers and global leaders of education,” she said. “it is important for students of the major to see all types of global careers.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
club promotes family values 

By MARISA IATI 
news writer 
To encourage students to build healthy relationships, members of the rodzinka: little Family club are promoting discussion about traditional perspectives on dat­ing, marriage and the family. 
The club, whose name means “little family” in polish in honor of a small group of college students pope John paul ii ministered to when he was a parish priest in poland, addresses alternatives to the college “hookup culture,” speaker coordinator Tim kirchoff said. 
“you need to be able to examine the alternatives to it in a coherent way and in a way that allows peo­ple to share experiences mean­ingfully — give people an idea of what’s really possible with mar­riage and family life and how to go about achieving that,” kirchoff said. 
although rodzinka has been operating on campus for approxi­mately six years, kirchoff said it became an official student club at the beginning of the fall semester and currently consists of under­graduate and graduate students. 
kirchoff said a professor or oth­er university community mem­ber speaks to the approximately 20 students over informal dinner conversations Thursdays in the knights of columbus council hall. The presentation typically lasts half an hour and is followed by discussion, he said. 
“The format we have now … empowers professors to be able to talk about these issues with students and lets them know it’s something we are willing to listen to them about,” kirchoff said. 
previous speakers presented about christian dating, marriage preparation and infant develop­ment, kirchoff said, and the group meets at the end of each semester to choose future speakers. 
“we generally have a list of peo­ple we know would be interested in speaking or from whom we’d like to hear,” kirchoff said. “This is the officer board and generally people who would show up to any meeting anyway because they’re the people who show up to a plan­ning session.” 
speakers must have personal experience with the issues they discuss, kirchoff said. 
“They have to have a story they can share,” he said. “it can’t just be totally speculative.” 
knights of columbus sponsors the discussion series, kirchoff said, and the national knights organization bestowed an award upon the notre dame chapter during the 2011-12 school year for its sponsorship of the rodzinka discussion series. 
The love and Fidelity network also sponsors rodzinka by pro­viding funding and advising the club about presentation topics, kirchoff said. 
“love and Fidelity is a national network of college students … trying to get people to reexamine concepts like dignity, romance and how they relate to college life, trying to foster lives of personal and sexual integrity on campus,” kirchoff said. 
kirchoff said rodzinka will soon put up posters on campus on behalf of the love and Fidelity network to promote conversation about romance and dignity.
 “it’s not judgmental,” kirchoff said. “it wants to get people to honestly examine what they want out of a dating relationship or any sort of relationship on campus.” 
kirchoff said he hopes to give students who are busy during the Thursday evening meeting time other opportunities to interact with professors. he said he is also interested in bringing professors of political science to speak to the club. 
“i’ve often heard it said that from the perspective of politi­cal theory, either the family is the base unit of society or it’s the school of charity,” kirchoff said. “every government has as its foundation the family unit.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 



son discusses mother’s medical legacy, life 
By SARAH SWIDERSKI 
news writer 
on Tuesday evening, mem­bers of the saint mary’s com­munity learned about the life and legacy of henrietta lacks, an unlikely but re­markable hero of american medical research, during an event featuring her son, david lacks. 
after henrietta lacks’s can­cer cells were harvested with­out her consent or knowledge in 1951, the so-called “hela” cells were used to test the first polio vaccine, cloned and used to map human genes. 
her story has since been publicized in a book ti­tled “The immortal life of henrietta lacks,” by author rebecca skloot, who will visit saint mary’s on Feb. 28. 
during a question-and­answer session facilitated by 
“I guess it was a situation where it was gratifying, something I felt good about to have someone from my family to give to the world.” 
David Lacks 
son of Henrietta Lacks 
political science professor marc belanger and senior london lamar, david and his wife shirley addressed some of the issues discussed in skloot’s book and shared their personal experiences with henrietta. 
david said he and his sister deborah remembered little about their mother because she died of cervical cancer when david was four years old. 
“i remember it was dark and rainy at her funeral,” david said. “That’s the only memory i have of her.” 
This lack of knowledge prompted deborah to in­vestigate their mother’s life, david said. 
“my sister was the only one who really wanted to find out,” he said. 
shirley, who knew deborah before she met david, said she remembers deborah’s keen interest in her mother’s life. 

“[deborah would say] ‘shirley, i would love to know about my mother. … my fa­ther won’t talk to me. my brother won’t talk to me. no one will talk to me,’” shirley said. 
The family began to put the pieces of henrietta’s life together when skloot ap­proached them about re­searching their mother. 
one audience member asked david how skloot could have discovered some of the information included in her book. 
“i take it like this: she found out information from some­one,” david said. “i just figure it that way, it happened.” 
shirley said she believes the book to be factually accurate. 
“i don’t think [skloot] would write something that wasn’t true. she went around and did a lot of research,” she said. “what rebecca wrote is true … but she did it in the writer’s style.” 
although henrietta’s cells were procured in an ethically questionable manner, david said he believed his mother would be glad her cells are helping facilitate medical advances. 
“From what i understand, she was a giving person, a loving person,” he said. “she wouldn’t object to giving her cells.” 
david also said he would not mind donating some of his own cells for research. 
“without research, there are no cures,” he said. 
no matter the implications of using hela cells with­out henrietta’s knowledge, david said he is proud of his mother’s contribution to science. 
“i guess it was a situa­tion where it was gratifying, something i felt good about to have someone from my fam­ily to give to the world,” lacks said. “[hela cells] are out there giving and they keep on giving. what i want people to remember about the hela cells is that [they came] from henrietta lacks.” 
Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 
Lincoln 
conTinued From page 1 
exercised  specifically  
with  the  emancipation  
proclamation  in  1863  and  

the outlawing of secession exemplify his constitutional leadership. 
“lincoln’s distinctive style of leadership can be usefully contrasted with three oth­ers,” smith said. 
These three models, he said, are machiavellian leadership, 
“It is important that leaders understand the importance of invoking the Constitution and showing the constitutional authority for what they are doing in even the most radical moments.” 
Steven Smith 
professor 
Yale University 
charismatic leadership and progressive leadership. 
smith said machiavellian leaders are realistic, prag­matic and willing to do what it takes to get a job done and earn praise from the people. 
“a machiavellian leader must value glory, fame and honor above all else,” he said. 
The second model, charis­matic leadership, is associat­ed with german leader knox vaber, smith said. This faith-based model prizes passion­ate leaders who maintain a sense of responsibility. 
smith said the progressive model of leadership requires a leader to go beyond the law and above politics to lead a people. 
“The idea that politics should be removed from the messy process of democracy and become a science has been embraced by progres­sives,” he said. 
although lincoln embod­ied some qualities of each of the three models, smith said his constitutional leadership style differs from other lead­ership models. 
lincoln wrestled with the problems posed by the limi­tation of powers constitu­tional leadership inevitably brought, smith said, which he summarized by quoting a July 4, 1861, speech by the president. 


“‘must a government, of ne­cessity, be too strong for the liberties of its own people, or too weak to maintain its own existence?’” smith said. 
This quote represents lincoln as a constitutional leader who valued the let­ter of the law above his own beliefs and believed govern­ment must fulfill the function of protecting each person’s right to use or misuse their freedom as they see fit, smith said. 
Though lincoln is known for extraordinary use of his powers during wartime, in­cluding the suspension of habeas corpus, censorship of the press and delivery of the emancipation proclamation, smith said the president was merely doing what was necessary to help the nation during an extremely trying period. 
“constitutional govern­ment is bound government,” smith said. “lincoln rejected the idea that politics is the domain of following one’s own private, moral commit­ments. he always submitted his commitments to the pri­ority of law.” 
above all, smith said con­stitutional governance ne­cessitates devotion to the law, a commitment lincoln realized fully as president. 
“it is important that leaders understand the importance of invoking the constitution and showing the constitu­tional authority for what they are doing in even the most radical moments,” smith said. “we often forget that we have to have the constitution behind us.” 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 





Vision 
conTinued From page 1 
done — we need to get going on now,” he said. “so we’ll be in talks with student affairs about that to see logistically what can be done.” 
coccia said the impressive voter turnout in this year’s elections added to his confi­dence in the student body’s willingness to contribute ideas. 
“in both the primary and the runoff [elections], you had over 4,000 students vote,” he said. “That within itself is impressive, the level of stu­dent engagement. ... last night [student body presi­dential candidate dominic romeo] and i talked about how special that was, for students to be engaged like that.” 
he said he will look to romeo and other candidates for feedback moving forward. 
“we’ll be reaching out to the other candidates shortly to talk with them and see what kind of ideas they defi­nitely want to have incorpo­rated in student government next year,” coccia said. 
in the weeks remaining before turnover, coccia said 
Bouts 
conTinued From page 1 
“practices were for about two hours a day, five to six days a week. on a typical week, i would say that i put in around 15 hours of training through practices and on my own time.” 
aside from the opportunity to fight for a worthy cause, alberdi, yi and senior cap­tain alex oloriz said stay­ing in shape was a major motivation for joining bengal bouts. 
“i got involved in bengal bouts because [in] freshman he and Joyce will use a thor­ough application process to assemble a qualified support team. 
“one thing we had in our platform is opening up [ap­pointed positions] as an ap­plication process for whoever wants to be involved in stu­dent government,” he said. “i think it will be a compre­hensive and intensive pro­cess for positions because we definitely want to make sure ... that we’re getting people based not only on their inter­ests and passion but on their ability to get stuff done that students care about.” 
part of the pair’s promo­tion of a rigorous application progress is a result of their experience running for office against five other tickets. 
“we’ve learned from this election that competition is a really good thing,” coccia said. “it brings out the best in any system.” 
while they will be look­ing to add some fresh fac­es to student government, Joyce said the pair will seek to retain some of the talent and ideas from the previous administration. 
“we are going to open that application process up, and yes, we want it to be com­petitive,” she said. “but at the same time we do want to have some sense of con­tinuity in certain aspects, and that’s something we’ll hope to do as we make the transition.” 

leading up to and con­tinuing through the summer months, coccia said he will keep close tabs on diversity-related efforts on campus. 
“we definitely want to begin conversations with people involved in the call to action rollout, just mak­ing sure we can back that as much as possible,” he said. “i’m currently looking with [outgoing student body president brett rocheleau] to find a home for [the glbTQ organization] in the student union constitution and also funding, which i think is go­ing to be the biggest creative challenge.” 
regardless of the chal­lenges the new administra­tion will face in the coming year, Joyce said she is eager to tackle them right away. 
“we’re ready to work,” she said. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
Gardens 
conTinued From page 1 
day boom. 
“First, we evaluate sales from the previous year and come up with a fun slo­gan,” hentges said. “i placed our flower product order in January.” 
hentges said this year’s slogan is “you can’t escape puppy love,” and the annual flower shipment, which in­cludes some new floral ar­rangement offerings, arrived monday at its location in the basement of the laFortune student center. 
“This year, i wanted to mix up the bouquets we have of­
“I can never decide which part of working at Irish Gardens is my favorite, helping the customers or making the arrangements. It’s so fun to help guys find that perfect arrangement. … It’s a process because most guys come in completely clueless.” 
Krystal Hentges 
general manager 
Irish Gardens 
fered in previous years and one i’m really excited about has lilies and hydrangeas,” hentges said. 
but the delivery of 38 box­es of flowers only marks the beginning of the hectic days leading up to Feb. 14, she said. 
“amidst boys coming in to place last-minute orders, we spend the next two days pro­cessing the flowers,” hentges said. “we get them out of the … boxes they come in, clip them, get them in water and organize them.” 
hentges said valentine’s day festivities really begin today when the irish gardens staff spends hours making all the preordered flower ar­rangements for distribution Thursday. 
“last year, we worked from 10 [a.m.] until 9 [p.m.] mak­ing all the arrangements,” she said. “it’s a lot of work, but it is so much fun.” 
on the day of the holiday, hentges said the store is busy with deliveries, pickups and last-minute orders. despite the chaos, hentges said the staff’s hard work results in beautiful final products. 
“it is amazing to see some of the work that comes out of the shop. it is so gorgeous,” she said. “it does not even feel like i am working when i am the shop, because it is such a fun and creative outlet.” 
hentges said irish gardens staff members enjoy working during the busy holiday sea­son, even if it means longer hours in the shop. 
“it’s the one time of the year that everyone is in the shop, and it is a big bonding experience,” she said. “it is a huge learning experience for the staff. it’s awesome to see everyone improve so drasti­cally and becomes more con­fident in their ability.” 
senior employee katie melloh said her first valentine’s season in the shop has been busier than expected. 
“i was abroad last spring. i wasn’t quite sure what to ex­pect, but i haven’t had a free moment the past two days while at work,” she said. “it’s been really crazy, but a lot of fun.” 
more than the personal sat­isfaction the staff draws from working during valentine’s day, hentges said helping students celebrate the holi­day with flowers makes all the work worth it. 
“i can never decide which part of working at irish gardens is my favorite, help­ing the customers or making the arrangements. it’s so fun to help guys find that perfect arrangement. … it’s a process because most guys come in completely clueless,” hentges said. “once they come to a decision, it really is exciting when they feel confident in their choice and hopefully aren’t scared of coming in anymore.” 
irish gardens will be open today until 7 p.m. and will open for business Thursday from 11 a.m. until 7 p.m. while supplies last. For more information on pricing and valentine’s day specials, visit flowershop.nd.edu. 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 
year, i was quickly losing my high school football physique,” oloriz said. 
For senior captain Jack lally, his fourth and final bengal bouts could help him com­plete the “perfect quartet” by winning the tournament each of his four years at notre dame. achieving this honor would earn him an honorary notre dame monogram. 
lally said the pressure to win for a fourth time moti­vates rather than intimidates him. 
“i mean, there’s always pres­sure,” lally said. “i’d rather be in this position than never having won a fight. ... There’s pressure in anything, but i en­joy it.” 

ulrich said the club also hopes this year’s tournament raises at least as much money as last year’s event. 
“last year, we raised [more than] $200,000,” he said. “beating that is [going to be] our greatest challenge.” 
preliminary bouts of the tournament begin tonight at 6 p.m. in the Joyce athletic and convocation center field house. 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


INSIDE COLUMN 

say no to kiwano 

Mackenzie Sain 
photographer 

i have finally found the one fruit i don’t like. 
a while back, a few friends and i realized none of us could come up with a fruit we disliked — with the possible exception of bananas, which are strangely polarizing. Fruit is just delicious. more recently, we de­cided to split into teams and have a contest to see who could find the strangest, most unique fruit in south bend. 
since indiana is landlocked and is gener­ally a freezing winter wasteland at this time of year, we anticipated needing to drive all over south bend to seek out exciting pro­duce at various ethnic markets. my team­mate and i found persimmons at an asian grocery, and bought yellow guavas and xoconostle (cactus fruit) at el paraiso. it was only after we used all that gas, of course, that we realized one could purchase all of these, in addition to other fun fruits, at meijer. go figure. 
leaving pomelos and boxes of kumquats for the other team to purchase, we exited meijer with starfruit, an uglifruit and a kiwano melon. i had tasted persimmons, guavas, cactus fruit and starfruit before, so the last two were new to me. 
uglifruit is a citrus fruit, and is possibly the least appetizing fruit i’ve ever bought. it definitely lives up to its name — it looks like the slightly squashed, tired grapefruit you’d find at the very bottom of the bin. i’m glad we gave it a chance, though, because ugli­fruit is delicious. if they sold uglifruit juice by the quart like they do orange and grape­fruit, i would be all over it. 
The same, however, cannot be said for kiwano melon. 
kiwano melon is one of the exotic-looking mainstays of the produce section that every­one always wants to try but never actually does. it’s about the size of a potato, a bright yellow-orange color and is covered in stubby half-inch spikes. The inside, like a cucum­ber, is filled with edible seeds surrounded by a yellow-green gel. 
The kiwano melon was definitely the coolest-looking fruit we bought, and we saved it for last in anticipation of equally awesome flavor. google informed us most people eat kiwano with salt or sugar; we decided to try it plain first and go from there. after one bite of the slimy seeds and crunchy rind, we all dove for the salt shaker. The interior tasted like an old cucumber and the rind like a tired radish. i like both cucumbers and radishes, but the combi­nation of flavors, along with the gel-like texture of the melon’s interior, is distinctly unappetizing. 
so, next time you find yourself in the produce section and are craving something new and different, forgo the spiky orange ki­wano and grab a brownish-yellow uglifruit instead. Trust me, you’ll be much happier. 
Contact Mackenzie Sain at msain@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The enduring power of love 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

my brothers and i played outside a lot when we were little. we would start with sports and play baseball, football and soccer for hours. but when we got bored, we would move to our driveway and begin to use our imaginations. cities with com­plex roads and towering buildings grew from simple markings of chalk. we would vie for coveted positions like postmaster and pizza-delivery guy and fight over who got to use our little Tikes wagon for official business. 
as the oldest brother, i frequently won these arguments. i always wanted to be the pizza-delivery guy and i would create havoc if i didn’t get my way. on more than one occa­sion, playtime in our city ended with yelling and frustration. my brothers would run off in anger, leaving a pre­viously healthy and vibrant metropo­lis of three in shambles with only me to pick through its ruins. 
perhaps it was because i was the oldest, but for one reason or another i always wanted to get my way. This has always been a part of my person­ality, and has always been a source of frustration for those closest to me, especially my parents. 
in high school, my way meant put­ting school and social responsibilities first. exams, papers, studying, theater and social obligations always ranked before family time. if dinner were at 7 p.m., i would hurry to finish at 7:10. i would then rush back to theater re­hearsal or to my schoolwork. i didn’t want family time to interfere with my commitments. 
everything revolved around my schedule. and it got so bad that when i came to notre dame as a freshman, weeks would go by before i made time to converse with my parents. although my mom texted me fre­quently asking to talk, somehow i found ways to make my schoolwork, glee club practices and other respon­sibilities my priority. 
as i have grown older, however, i have made an effort to make my par­ents more of a focus in my life. but it is only recently that i have come to understand a deeper truth about their relationship with me. 
it started in an unexpected way. in the middle of discussing options to visit them in cincinnati a short while ago, i found the desire for my way rearing its ugly head again. i was transported back to my driveway and the family dinner table. i found my­self putting my desires first again: “i don’t know that i will be able to visit,” i said. “These next few weeks are real­ly hard. plus, i haven’t had time to rest since the beginning of the semester.” 
but then my mom said something that made me pause. “That’s okay,” she replied. “we’d just really like to see you.” 
although i’d heard these words before, in that moment i understood her words in a new way. she did not fight; she did not show frustration; she simply responded with love. it hit me that she had always loved me this way. all the times i didn’t make time to call, all the times i rushed her to leave proved to be no match for her desire to love and be in relationship with me. 
it was the same for my dad. he quickly volunteered to rearrange his required, two-day-a-week, three-hour commute to work to accommodate my possible journey home. That’s just what my dad does. he has always made time to be at every one of my performances and events. like my mom, he has consistently been show­ing me that he desires that love and relationship too. 
For a long time, it pained me to feel that i may have caused hurt to my parents. so, instead of working on the relationship and addressing that pain, i buried it deeper within myself. i didn’t want to confront the guilt i felt. 
slowly but surely, however, their love has transformed that feeling. They have shown me that even when i wasn’t ready to accept their love, they were always willing to give it. 
in that light, i think they have pro­vided me with an insight into the mystery of god. god is always there for us too. like my parents, he desires to be in deep relationship with us. my weaknesses were no match for them, and they are no match for him. he wishes us to bring all our weaknesses and shortcomings to him so he can show us they have no bearing on his love. 
i heard a song recently with these lyrics: “every moment of time is just an answer to find what you’re here for.” my parents reminded me of god’s truth to us: every moment on this earth is an opportunity to find how we can love and be loved. nothing less will suffice. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Major romance 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 

it’s that time of year again, notre dame. valentine’s day approach­es, and love fills the air like axe and natty fill a dorm party. From pasquerilla east to carroll, students will take a brief break from their typical Thursday night shenanigans to impress a special someone while investigating their prospects for the famed ring-by-spring. while your night is sure to be filled with flow­ers, chocolate and originality, we also want to temper any unrealistic expec­tations you might have. what follows is a major-by-major breakdown of what you’ll see Thursday night. your mileage may vary. we hope to god it does. 
Theology: discusses papal candi­dates over lenten dinner before at­tending 10 p.m. mass. 
philosophy: Too busy fruitlessly seeking employment to worry about valentine’s day. 
chemistry: spends night sobbing in date’s arms about recent organic chemistry test. 
math: cracks joke about being “tan­gent to your curves.” doesn’t work this year, either. 
computer science: “valentine’s day? is that an app?” 
civil engineering: erects monu­ment dedicated to valentine. receives restraining order. 
english: Fashions poem for date. less like shakespeare; more like rebecca black. 
chemical engineering: Takes val­entine to au bon pain. “we don’t even have to leave the library!” 
medieval studies: attempts to court a “fair maiden,” noting some nostal­gia for betrothals. 
irish studies: “did someone say guinness?” 
gender studies: writes op-ed about valentine’s day gender stereotypes, then watches latest episode of “girls.” 
entrepreneurship: creates flower sale, initiating price war with the pasquerilla west carnation sale. 
biology: makes dna helicase joke. suffers the same fate as civil engineer. 
French: writes moving poem. 
Their significant other doesn’t speak French. 
statistics: Takes the other stats ma­jor to dinner. 
architecture: couple sneaks off to bond hall for late night rendezvous with 30 of their closest friends. 
international development: regales date with tale of saving africa last summer. 
economics: Tries to explain 2008 Financial crisis. date implodes faster than lehman brothers. 
accounting: dumped girlfriend last week, citing poor return on invest­ment. ends up at new “die hard” movie with fellow bachelors. 
education: is taken to notre dame athletic’s valentine’s day event. 
anthropology: gives a 40-minute monologue on history of human ro­mance. date falls asleep. 
aerospace engineering: Tries to build magic carpet. carpet takes a hard right turn to club Fever. 
pre-med: spends night cramming for anatomy exam. 
science-business: looked down upon by science friends. studies too much for business kids. Finds a lot in common with arts and letter pre­professional major over dinner. 
psychology: spends evening radi­cally overanalyzing date’s request to “pass the salt.” 
music: serenades date. pulls it off. 
history: can’t make it through “Titanic” without pointing out his­torical inaccuracies. kills mood faster than the water kills Jack. 
pls: decries materialism with date at steak n’ shake. 
Finance: mocks liberal arts with date during second course overlook­ing chicago waterfront. 
art history: Takes date to snite museum. again. 
design: skips valentine’s day, call­ing it “too mainstream.” 
political science: spends the night writing a mediocre column. Forgets to find a valentine. 
Matt Miklavic is a sophomore studying political science and business from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Campaign solicitation: taking things too far 
on the afternoon of monday, Feb. 11, i received an email from the dominic romeo-philip hootsmans ticket, soliciting my vote in the ongoing student gov­ernment election. several of my friends also received text messages from the alex coccia-nancy Joyce tick­et. i have a couple issues with the use of our personal information in this manner. 
when i contacted mr. romeo about some of these concerns, he informed me my email “is public infor­mation,” and was even kind enough to provide me with a link to the insidend directory where he ac­quired said information. in his response, he also felt the need to inform me he had not “broken any rules, and the Judicial council has already confirmed such a fact.” 
i do not believe any student should be allowed to randomly solicit to members of the notre dame network in such an unrequested fashion. mr. romeo and mr. coccia both seem to have found a loophole in the current student union constitution, because it does not specifically ban mass text messages or email blasts, provided they are not over a “listserv.” From this perspective, it seems they indeed have not “bro­ken any rules.” however, i believe they are both in violation of at least two provisions of The constitution of the undergraduate student body. 
section 17.2-g specifically states that, “copies of all campaign materials must be submitted to the election committee and stamped for approval by the vice president of elections or a voting member of the elections committee before posting.” were these emails and text messages submitted for approval, mr. romeo? mr. coccia? if so, i am disappointed in the elections committee for approving such venues of so­licitation. i allow my information to be visible on the notre dame directory for one reason and one reason only: in the event a classmate, peer or professor needs to contact me concerning a pressing academic con­cern. while the existence of such a directory without password protection is questionable to me in its own right, i also feel quite strongly that my and my class­mates’ information in this directory has been abused. 
section 17.1-h on elections states, “candidates are expected to behave ethically at all times.” as upstand­ing individuals of this community, individuals trying to win my vote, i wonder if mr. romeo and mr. coccia believe their actions are consistent with ethical use of the information in the directory. ethics are, un­fortunately, not just about breaking the rules. ethics are about acting in accordance with reason and right conscience to make the right choices and decisions. i believe a very poor standard is being set here. Just because a rule has not yet been made to prohibit an action does not make that action appropriate. if the copying and pasting of netids, email addresses and phone numbers from the notre dame directory into campaign solicitation emails and text messages for student government elections is considered ethical action, then i want no part in such an election. i do not believe that is consistent with proper handling of information, and i believe these candidates should have demonstrated simple common sense in realizing these were not appropriate venues for campaigning. 
i am not necessarily calling for the disqualifica­tion of the above named candidates; that is not my primary intent. This article is simply a petition for the amendment of the student union constitution to prevent the improper use of students’ personal infor­mation in situations such as these and all others. This will hopefully allow our candidates to campaign not only within the rules, but ethically within the rules. 
Sam Zappa 
sophomore Zahm house 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ON THE 
CLOTHES 
New York Fashion Week
LINE 
By LAUREN MATICH 
scene writer 

in a word, the clothes of mercedes­benz 2013 Fashion week have been dramatic. a varied mix of established and young designers alike have come to showcase their wares, while models strut their miss J stomps and wildly clad onlookers come to see and be seen. like any other Fashion week, the unusual in fashion are present alongside the more conventional, and all are critiqued and applauded. of the styles represented, some elements have made multiple appearances the past few days, giving forward-looking fashionistas a glimpse into the newest trends in winter wear. 
much of this season’s drama has come from the use of loosely hanging coats and full-fledged capes. an eve­ning gown shown by donna karan played with different textures, an­gular and softened shapes, but these characteristics were all subtle com­pared to the floor-length sheer cape floating behind the harshly made-up model. victoria beckham is another designer employing cape-like draped fabric to intensify her looks. This sea­son, beckham has also spearheaded the trend to bear more skin. although subtle in the achievement of this, she displayed plunging necklines and high-cut slits to combat her generally austere design. 
silhouettes for fall fashion have become more streamlined and sim­plistic. The flirty spring and summer sundresses have evolved into muted shifts that follow the lines of the body to allow for layering. models sport­ing dresses strut in conservatively, covering their knees, while long, tai­lored sleeves also continue to make a comeback. carin rodebjer, a swedish designer whose look could be called “progressive elegance,” highlighted her muted collection with subtly-placed color and large open knits to keep it soft and comfortable. 
once again, designers have worked to revolutionize the world of winter knits. although sweaters will forever be a staple in cold-weather ward­robes, look out for new ways to layer and structure the everyday sweater. Thakoon panichgul, a Thai-american designer showed a variety of knits to which he added polish using belts and creative shape-lending seams. 
Theysken’s Theory also played up the sophisticated yet comfortable look by pairing a flared quilted skirt with a similarly colored knit sweater. The monochromatic elements of the de­sign emphasize the use of textures rather than colors to make a bold statement in the fall. 
The new york shows have been heavy on the sober colors one would expect for fall and winter. many de­signers including bcbgmaXaZria have showcased the use of black and white, which is as chic as it is timeless and season-less, but one specific color is so dominant that one could call this year’s Fashion week “seven days of gray.” every tone from light heather to deep charcoal can be found layered on models in sweaters, hats, skirts, evening gowns and legwarmers. monochromatic outfits that are gray from hat to heel have been especially popular, but for the designers who aren’t so keen on grayscale, dark ma­roons have provided a classy contrast to the somber hue. 
other colors that have surfaced have been equally as dramatic as the crimson-gray duo. varying shades of deep purple have made appearances on the catwalk — eggplant, violet, merlot and even indigo have been spotted in both small doses and tall orders. designer carolina herrera presented a deep jewel-toned gown in violet lace on one model, and on another magenta dyed fur shrug, in­dicating the versatility with which purple will be worn in the upcom­ing seasons. green shades of silk, satin, knits and fur are also hanging around malandrino’s collection from previous seasons. The designer high­lighted an old-hollywood inspired emerald satin evening gown with long sleeves and seams that subtly defined the body with a similarly-colored fur collar. even though runways are missing the lighthearted neon shades of the spring and summer shows, do not think that fall and winter won’t be served with an extra helping of glam­our and drama. 
despite the trend of subdued col­ors and silhouettes, some designers are turning toward prints to make a bold statement, and both plaid and herringbone are sure to be big hits. Tommy hilfiger, king of prep, devel­oped yet another ivy-league-inspired collection using layered herringbone, hound’s-tooth and plaid all in low-key colors. many of his garments incorpo­rate an understated yet striking crim­son stripe around the cuffs, hem or waist, but keep to the sleek and sim­ple shapes trending around lincoln center this week. 
in the same way hilfiger takes in­spiration from the ivy league tweed, other designers have divulged their inspiration for debuting collec­tions. one such artist, diane von Furstenberg, invited the audience to travel back in time with her models as she eschewed the somber, simple styles of her colleagues for the jump­suits, maxi and wrap dresses, and cropped suits of the 1970s, all styled in magenta, bright scarlet, electric blue and graphic patterns. betsey Johnson, iconic for her flamboyant bright colors and tutu-like skirts, did not disappoint monday evening. her collection mixed neon sportswear, mustard-yellow plaid, animal print, floral accessories and faux fur vests. Johnson’s models also played up the line’s juvenile silliness by half-skip­ping down the run way with thick-cropped wigs while chatting on cell phones. designer Johnson’s collection exemplified the frivolity that those of designers such as victoria beckham lack. 
paramount to the heart of many notre dame students is the show that took place early Tuesday morning — J. crew. The brand showed a good mix of both shockingly bright and profes­sionally subdued looks for men and women. even more muted options stood out in comparison to the end­less gray of countless other shows by using brown, navy, black, white, and fleshy pinks as neutrals. more shock­ing combinations have used bubble­gum pink and black in business-wear. bright omaha orange, maroon and emerald have shown up in trendy oversized sweaters and coats with geometric and watered-down aztec inspired prints. The heart of the show was a fuchsia blazer trimmed in scar­let red and heather gray shown with tapered black satin tuxedo pants. it is safe to say that the J. crew style will continue to be in demand another year. 
although so many designers fo­cused on simple silhouettes and versatile colors, which translate to “wearability” for next winter, some styles land themselves in wacky fashion limbo, where even the best artists have been led astray. since the recession fur has been very fashionably on the rise in controlled doses. This year was no exception, but the key has been taste­fully small accessories, not knee-length vests as seen in in the bcbgmaXaZria collection, in which a model strutted donning a tri-color splotchy beast of a garment. similar fur travesties were seen in the alexander wang and Joseph altuzarra collections, which had giant fur gloves for the runway. another zany style decision was the overemphasis of the loose silhouette in understated col­ors by derek lam. an old adage profess­es that many models could wear a brown bag and look great, but designer lam tested the theory in his most recent col­lection when he included a simple dress with no shape or definition to lend to its wearer, ultimately dwarfing the already petite model. 
Thankfully, such fashion calami­ties are far less common than the dem­onstrations of artistry genius by the famed designers of Fashion week 2013. mercedes-benz Fashion week concludes on Feb. 14, but the official website, www. mbfashionweek.com, has documented photos and videos from the event, lend­ing aspiring fashion insiders a glimpse into the goings-on of the industry. Fashionistas, no longer will the common whines about nothing to wear be toler­ated. inspiration has arrived. 
Contact Lauren Matich at lmatich@nd.edu 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Courtney Cox 
scene editor 

Tonight marks the third episode of the new spy drama “The americans” on FX, and at this point i’m hooked. 
it is the newest addition to the his­torical drama trend popularized by “downton abbey” and “mad men,” but the difference is the history in this se­ries is not so far gone. 
The series, set when reagan reigned supreme, is centered on soviet spies placed just outside of washington mas­querading as a loving couple. 
keri russell is frighteningly con­vincing as the icy elizabeth Jennings. despite living in the united states for years with her arranged husband phillip, played by matthew rhys, her dedication to the motherland is unwavering. 
she slips in little pieces of soviet pro­paganda to her two children in subtle ways, like in the first episode when her daughter paige is doing a report on the moon landing and elizabeth says that it’s just an accomplishment to get into space at all. 
her husband, on the other hand, has become increasingly accustomed to the privileges of american life. They have made him much softer compared to elizabeth. 
in the first episode of the series, phillip and elizabeth capture a defected soviet spy before he’s able to give away too much information. They hold him hostage in the trunk of their station wagon until they can figure out what to do with him. 
phillip begins to contemplate how easy it would be to defect as well. They would be treated like kings by the american government and would be free to live with the blessings of liberty for the rest of their lives. 
elizabeth’s staunch refusal leads to a strengthening of their resolve to re­main loyal to the soviet union, despite the threat of a suspicious cia operative moving in next door. 
The best part of the show is it has drawn in viewers with the promise of suspense and excitement, and at the same time you’re genuinely interested in the training of these intense spies. 
how did it come to be that elizabeth and phillip were chosen to live in this pristine suburb together? what level of commitment did it take to start a family from nothing and raise their children in the american way instead of the tradi­tions of their beloved home country? 
in the first two episodes you get the sense that phillip truly does love elizabeth simply from seeing her in ac­tion for so long, but elizabeth has barely let him get close to her in all their time together. 
one of the first moments when you see her show any affection to him is when she first reveals to him her real russian name. it was something so in­timate but so small that she had clearly never revealed before. 
The most worthwhile qualities of the show come from the incredible performances of the lead actors. we’re used to seeing keri russell as a charm­ing upbeat girl, but in “The americans” she’s strong beyond belief. she displays incredible skill in hand-to-hand combat and a fierce loyalty to the spartan val­ues of the soviet union. 
matthew rhys is finally in a position to shine in a starring role. he’s naturally a quiet actor, which suits the role of an undercover spy, but his subtle love for his fake wife is one of the most charm­ing and heartbreaking parts of the show. 
if the rest of the series is as promising as the first two episodes were, it’s likely that i’ll be supplementing my “modern Family” wednesdays with a dramatic twist on “The americans.” 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

STEPH WULZ  | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Johnson takes talents to pitch 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
“ha-ha!” 
That’s just one of the many signature calls of gus Johnson, a Tv commentator who has become famous over his career for being one of the most ex­citing and excitable voices in sports. 
however, it was also my reac­tion to the news that Johnson, who has called basketball and football almost exclusively in the past, is making the move to calling soccer, and being groomed by Fox to be the voice of the 2018 world cup. 
it’s not that i don’t love gus. as part of cbs’s march madness team from 1996 to 2011, Johnson always seemed to get more than his fair share of upsets, buzzer-beaters and craziness, and made the game all that much better with his screamed catchphrases and unabashed enthusiasm. 
even in the nFl games he called, the madness followed discouraged from using excla­mation points in The observer, but writing about Johnson pretty much demands it.) 
Johnson was perfect in call­ing college basketball, a sport where, by rule, something de­finitive happens every 35 sec­onds. Football was a bit more of a stretch on his style, but futbol, where back passes and incon­sequential build-up account for roughly 85 of the 90 minutes, could tear it totally apart. 
That’s not a knock on the action in soccer, as dedicated fans are able to see the ebb and flow of momentum and territo­rial gains, and the best analysts have the flow to give the game a rhythm like the tide. with gus, it’s nothing but whitewater rapids. 
That’s not to say he has no shot. Johnson is a professional, and has five full years to hone his craft before potentially being thrust onto the world stage. he started calling major league soccer games over the summer, and his test run will begin in earnest this afternoon, 

  If he can successfully make the transition, Johnson could be another big gain for soccer in the United States. 
him around with so much regularity that sportswriter bill simmons suggested that Johnson himself was causing the games to become exciting, and not the other way around. and while the “law of gus” may still be a theory, it always holds in the never-ending games from those buffalo wild wings commercials, which were smart enough to have Johnson as their fictional play­by-play man. 
however, i’m highly skeptical that Johnson’s style will trans­late to the beautiful game. part of the charm of soccer com­mentary is its almost poetic na­ture; analysts like martin Tyler or andy gray might respond to a goal with a line like: “and with the scoreline elevated to three-nil, it’s clear which side is in the ascendency.” 
in his excitement, gus is usually content with yelling a couple simple phrases, and would probably just punctuate it with a “wow! rooney! Three-Zero! woah!” (we’re usually when he’ll call the champions league match between real madrid and manchester united for Fox soccer. 
if he can successfully make the transition, Johnson could be another big gain for soccer in the united states, a familiar voice and distinctly american style making the game more accessible for the casual fan. his enthusiasm could help liven up a broadcast, and who knows, maybe the “law of gus” can turn some scoreless draws into 6-4 slugfests, too. 
i think his style will need plenty of renovation, and we’ll begin to see if a successful crossover is even possible start­ing at 2 p.m. this afternoon. 
but if gus can pull it off? well, he’ll definitely have earned that last laugh. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SOCCER 
Ronaldo tops rankings 

Associated Press 
london — real madrid’s cristiano ronaldo emerged from the shadow of lionel messi to top this week’s associated press global soccer rankings. 
The portuguese forward’s hat trick against sevilla was not enough to prevent barcelona returning to the top of the ap’s team rankings, with the spanish league leader scoring six. 
soeren-mikael hansen of denmark’s politiken newspa­per said the hat trick was a mes­sage to ronaldo’s old team. 
“even though barcelona per­formed best as a team, cristiano ronaldo must take the top spot individually,” said hansen. “scoring three goals sent a seri­ous warning to united.” 
ronaldo, who faces manchester united in the champions league on wednesday, received 183 points out of a possible 200 in the poll of 20 global soccer journalists. 
a barcelona player was in second position, but it was mid­fielder andres iniesta and not messi. iniesta earned 101 points for his dominant performance in the 6-1 victory over getafe. 
messi was fourth with 87 points, finishing behind Tottenham’s gareth bale, who scored both goals in the 2-1 english premier league victory over newcastle on sunday. bale was just three points behind iniesta. 
“gareth bale is becoming 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please 
more and more important for Tottenham,” said panelist aurelio capaldi of broadcaster rai sport. “his double against newcastle was decisive for spurs and the welshman has become one of the symbols of the premier league. he often looks unstoppable and is the man every top club is dreaming to have on the left side.” 
son heung-min of hamburg became the first south korean player to feature in the ap top 10 since it launched last year, earning seventh place after the 20-year-old scored twice in his team’s 4-1 bundesliga win over second-placed borussia dortmund. 
“linked with several premier league clubs during the January transfer window, son’s performance against reigning champions borussia dortmund underlined why the south korean is such a sought after talent,” said german soccer writer James Thorogood. “The 20-year-old scored twice, but it was his pace and industry that proved to be a constant thorn in the side of dortmund’s defend­ers, setting him apart in a stun­ning team outing.” 
another 20-year-old play­ing in germany, austrian david alaba, was fifth with 84 points after scoring twice in bayern munich’s 4-0 victory over schalke that propelled the bavarian team 15 points clear at the top. “alaba’s emergence in arguably the most talented bayern squad of recent years has been nothing short of spec­tacular,” said Thorogood. 
manchester united’s robin van persie scored in his team’s victory over rivals everton. The 39-year-old winger ryan giggs, whose goal against everton means he has scored in each of the past 23 seasons for united, was rewarded with 10th place. 
barcelona, bayern munich and united all have huge leads in their respective national leagues and it’s possible that they’ll be crowned champi­ons long before the end of the season. 
Tom Timmermann, of the st. louis post-dispatch, said the rankings had been stagnant, but the return of champions league activity provided fresh impetus “for more significant change as some of the big boys go head to head.” 
“i threatened to drop barcelona from the top spot if they didn’t come through this week, and they responded with a 6-1 win, so i didn’t hesitate to make them no. 1 again this week. and the same goes for man u and bayern munich in the 2 and 3 spots,” he said. 
barcelona was a comfort­able winner of the team award with 177 points, with bayern second on 152 and united third on 135. real madrid was fourth and italian league leader Juventus fifth. Three premier league teams — southampton, Tottenham and chelsea — filled the last three sports in the top 10. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu Inspirational Quote: “Believe you can and you’re halfway  there.”-Theodore Roosevelt Inspriational Quote: “God always gives His best to those who leave the choice with him.”-Jim Elliot  



NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Gators dominate Kentucky 

Associated Press 
gainesville, Fla. — if there were any questions about Florida’s status in the southeastern conference fol­lowing a loss at arkansas last week, the gators put those to rest Tuesday night. 
with another lopsided win in league play. 
and against defending na­tional champion kentucky, which had freshman star nerlens noel go down with a knee injury. 
scottie wilbekin had 14 points and eight assists, pat young recorded his sixth dou­ble-double of the season and no. 7 Florida handled the 25th­ranked wildcats 69-52. 
The gators (20-3, 10-1 sec) snapped a five-game losing streak in the series and im­proved to 12-0 at home. 
This one solidified Florida’s spot atop the sec. 
“They’re an outstanding bas­ketball team,” kentucky coach John calipari said. “They were last year, they are this year. They’re well coached, they’re talented, they’re very physical. Their guards are just jerking balls out of our guys’ hands. we couldn’t get near the basket on young. he just physically took away the rim. and they’re very active.” 
The wildcats (17-7, 8-3) lost for the first time in six games, and it may have been costly. 
noel, the nation’s leading shot-blocker, injured his left knee in the second half and was taken to a campus hospital for tests. 
noel, a forward who averages 
10.6 points, 9.6 rebounds and 
4.5 blocks a game, landed awk­wardly on his leg with about 8 minutes to play. he screamed in pain as trainers rushed to his side. Teammates carried him to the locker room. after the game, trainers pushed him through the halls of the o’connell center in a wheelchair and with his left leg in a brace. 

“i’m physically sick right now for him,” calipari said. “what i’m hoping is it’s not the ex­treme. i’m hoping it’s some sort of twist, but we don’t know.” 
Florida had a comfortable lead before the injury. 
The gators opened a double-digit lead, 31-19, in the first half on consecutive 3-point­ers by wilbekin, mike rosario and kenny boynton — back­breaking shots that frustrated calipari and had his players looking dazed and confused. 
Florida extended it to 16 points on rosario’s layup. it was the biggest deficit the wildcats had faced all season. 
and they did little to erase it. 
young and fellow big man erik murphy, who was in early foul trouble, carried the load in the second half. 

paid adverTisemenT 
TRACK & FIELD 
mesidor makes the jump to nd 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
The irish may be the de­fending big east indoor conference champions, but even the athletes who con­tributed last year, includ­ing sophomore long jumper keith mesidor, know they must improve in order to repeat this weekend in geneva, ohio. This means setting lofty goals, some­thing that mesidor in par­ticular is used to. 
last year, mesidor was the top irish finisher at the championships in the long jump, finishing sixth with a leap of nearly 23 feet. still, he has far higher hopes for this year. 
“my coaches and i were talking, and we want to get two guys in the top three,” mesidor said. “That’ll prob­ably mean a personal re­cord, which would be about 25 feet.” 
of course, big goals and success are nothing new to mesidor. a native of port­au-prince, haiti, he came to the united states when he was very young and faced several obstacles in his transition. 
“schools in haiti start a year earlier, so when i got here, i had to do a grade over,” mesidor said. “i was coming to new york in the winter, so i would say the hardest parts were defi­nitely learning the new lan­guage and getting used to the cold.” 
still, mesidor excelled both on the track and in school, maintaining a 4.0 gpa in high school and fin­ishing ninth in the long jump at the usa junior championships as a fresh­man in college. 
looking beyond college, 
mesidor  has  even  bigger  
plans.  
“in  2012,  haiti  only  

sent [five] athletes to the olympics, but none of them were long jumpers, so i’d like to do that.” he said. “That’s definitely my biggest long­term goal. hopefully, i’ll get to go either in 2016 or 2020, just whenever it works out.” 
after his track career is over, mesidor has just as bright a future. a science pre-professional major, he hopes to be involved in bio­medicine after he graduates and is finished with long jumping. 
“i’m more interested in research than being a doc­tor,” mesidor said. “i’d like to go into research on mis­carriages and be involved with things that relate to that.” 
and while mesidor has plenty to think about in the future, this weekend all his focus will be on helping his teammates defend their title. if a personal record comes along with it, that’s just a bonus. 
The irish compete this weekend in geneva, ohio, at the big east indoor confer­ence championships. 
Contact Greg Hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 
Tennis 
conTinued From page 16 
to tie the match. 
wildcat sophomore charles minc took the lead back, beat­ing sophomore wyatt mccoy 6-1, 6-3 on the no. 5 court. again, the score leveled when pecor took down kentucky freshman Juan pablo murra in a thrilling four-set match. 
The two teams entered the final set of singles tied 3-3. but kentucky junior grant roberts passed bandy in the no. 6 spot, winning 6-3, 6-0 to give the wildcats the 4-3 win. 
“we need to just take what we learned from this tough match and look to better ourselves in ev­ery way we can moving forward,” bandy said. 
The irish will next play this saturday, when they host no. 21 michigan at the eck Tennis center at 1 p.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


DePaul 
conTinued From page 16 
“Just one game at a time right now. This is the grind part of the season. we don’t have time to dwell on [the louisville win].” 
irish senior forward Tom knight, junior guard Jerian grant and cooley all fouled out against the cardinals, forc­ing brey to reach deeper down his bench. sherman played 22 minutes and propelled the irish in overtime with 17 points and six rebounds after not playing a minute in regulation. in the three games before louisville, sherman had played a com­bined three minutes. 
Freshman forwards cam biedscheid and Zach auguste logged 50 and 36 minutes respectively against the cardinals. auguste provided eight points and three re­bounds before fouling out in the waning moments of the game. 
“The way Zach went in there … he’s been working so hard on his game that it’s just so impressive to see him go out there and to see all his work he’s put in come to fruition in overtime,” cooley said. “To see [biedscheid and auguste] step up the way they did was just in­credible. … To have the depth that we have is incredible.” 

The irish square off with the blue demons on wednesday at 7 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 
belles head to conference meet 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s will com­plete their season and look to place highly this weekend at the annual miaa champi­onships in Jenison, mich. 
although this season proved to be a rocky one for the belles (1-5), they will be going into the conference championships off a vic­tory. saint mary’s 153-105 win over olivet on Feb. 2, their first of the season, has already helped the belles re­focus in practice. 
“we have had a good week practicing, and we are defi­nitely looking to place,” senior captain genevieve spittler said. “we are look­ing to come in fourth overall.” 
Top performers to watch during the miaa meet are freshman diver andrea canacci, who won both the 1- and 2-meter dive events at the olivet meet, and freshman carolyn neville, who is competing in the 200-yard individual medley and the 200-yard freestyle. other members who have been strong all season are sophomore anna nolan in the 50-yard freestyle and ellie watson in the 500-yard freestyle. 
The miaa champion is determined solely on the basis of results at the miaa championships. Top con­tenders for the title include calvin (6-0), the 2011 miaa champion hope (5-1) and kalamazoo (4-1). 
spittler said she expects stiff competition from the rest of the field, but that the belles will put their all into this final meet. 
“we will bring our a-game, but it’s always a challenge,” she said. 
The championships begin today and com­mence saturday. alma and kalamazoo are hosting the meet at the Jenison aquatics center. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Rutgers tops Seton Hall to snap losing streak 
Associated Press  The scarlet knights blocked  aaron cosby had a 3-pointer  you gotta take the good with the unfortunate.”  
a season-high 11 shots and saw  blocked for the pirates and he  bad. Thank god i came up with carter was fouled on the in­ 
piscaTaway, n.J. — There  dane miller became the 39th  missed another long shot before  the steal.” bounds play and made a free  
is no such thing as an easy win  player in school history to score  Teague got the rebound and was  edwin nailed a 3-pointer with throw with 2.5 seconds to go,  
for mike rice and rutgers, es­ 1,000 points in sending seton  fouled, making 1 of 2 attempts  3 seconds to play to close the gap leaving edwin enough time for  
pecially when it comes to seton  hall to its sixth straight loss.  to cut the margin to 54-49 with  to 56-55, and he said after the a heave that never looked good.  
hall.  “we have nothing to lose right  48 seconds to go.  game that he felt he was fouled This was the 16th time in  
eli carter scored 11 of his 14  now,” edwin said. “we just have  carter made 1 of 2 free throws  on the play. the last 18 games between the  
points in the second half and  to go out there and give it our all.  after being fouled with 37 sec­ “There was definitely con-schools that the contest was de­ 
rutgers almost squandered a  The mood in the locker room ...  onds to go and kyle smyth re- tact, but they just didn’t give cided by six points or less or in  
12-point-lead in the final 4:23  it’s not good, it’s definitely not  sponded with his only basket, a  me the call,” edwin said. “it was overtime.  
in snapping a six-game losing streak with a 57-55 victory over  good. we are on a six-game los­ing streak.”  3-pointer, with 24 seconds to cut the lead 55-52.  paid adverTisemenT  
its new Jersey, big east-rival on  myles mack added 10 points  “me and my teammates were  
Tuesday night.  for rutgers, austin Johnson had  joking earlier,” Johnson said.  
“it’s the big east, you’re  eight and miller tallied five of  “we feel in the last two minutes  
scratching and clawing trying to  his seven in a 10-0 second-half  at the rac people are like shoot- 
work yourself out of a rut here,”  spurt that allowed the scarlet  ing 100 percent, they always  
rice said. “every time people  knights to open a 13-point lead.  seem to make three pointers or  
keep throwing more dirt on  edwin had a game-high 18  long distance shots. That was  
you. it’s hard to shake it off and  points to lead seton hall, which  the longest two minutes of my  paid adverTisemenT  
step up and that’s what we did  had a five-game winning streak  life. i just wanted the game to be  
tonight.”  at the rutgers athletic center  over.”  
Just barely though as the  snapped. eugene Teague added  carter broke the seton hall  
pirates (13-12, 2-10) finished the  12 points and brandon mobley  press on the ensuing possession  
game with a 15-5 run.  had 10 points, all in the first half.  and inexplicably drove the lane  
rutgers (13-10, 4-8) didn’t  The final minute was wild with  for a layup and missed it.  
secure the win until Fuquan  rutgers missing free throws and  brian oliver got the rebound  
edwin missed a desperation,  making foolish plays to open the  for seton hall and his pass up- 
three-quarter-court length  door for seton hall.  court was intercepted by mike  
3-pointer at the buzzer.  carter hit two free throws to  poole, who was immediately  
“it certainly wasn’t pretty,”  put the scarlet knights ahead  fouled. he made 1 of 2 free  
rice said. “we had foul trouble  54-46 with 1:57 to play.  throws to push the lead to 56-52  
early but we a lot of guys step up.  Teague cut the margin to six  with 10 seconds to play.  
it feels good to get a victory and  points with a layup with 1:41 to  “i thought he was gonna drib- 
take the pressure off your shoul­ go and seton hall got a big play  ble it out, run around in a circle,”  
ders so to speak. maybe now  on defense when carter’s layup  poole said. “he shot it, if it goes  
we’ll go play a little looser and a  attempt with a minute to go was  in it’s a great play. if he misses  
little better.”  blocked.  it he’s got the world on his back.  



Stryking Golden Gladiatorz shut out Chalupas 
Special to The Observer 
on monday night, recsports’s game of the week featured The chalupas showdown with the stryking golden gladiatorz in a tough battle for wiffle ball su­premacy. The chalupas played solid defense for six innings, an offensive explosion by the stryking golden gladiatorz in the fourth secured a 5-0 victory. 
The game began with a rough start, with neither team really able to find their offensive game. The teams struggled to get run­ners on base, and several scoring chances were dashed after key defensive plays forced both sides to strand runners. 
That changed in the fourth inning. The stryking golden gladiatorz put up a five-run in­ning due to a few big hits, and a couple of key errors in the field. From that point on the gladiatorz never looked back, but the chalupas never quit. They put people on base a few times but could not bring them home. one such rally ended with an impressive play by gladiatorz se­nior Tommasina domel, whose over-the-shoulder catch in the outfield saved multiple runs. 

Though they were disheart­ened in the loss, the chalupas left the field proud with their performance. 
“we just got beat by a better team,” chalupas senior andy romero said. “all that matters is 
paid adverTisemenT 
that we all really like each other and enjoy ourselves out here. it makes losing a lot easier.” 
The chalupas are 0-3 on the season, but romero said they aren’t too worried about their place in the divisional standings. 
”we’re just going to come out here next week and do the exact same thing, and hope it works out,” romero said. 
For the stryking golden gladiatorz, senior team captain, second baseman and namesake sam stryker said he was very proud of his team’s performance and elated about the victory. are looking to make a splash in the playoffs, and the team captain said he feels they have the talent for a championship run. 
“we’re a really good looking team, both in terms of ability and actual good looks,” stryker said. “i’m excited for the future.” 
stryker is also the assistant managing editor of The observer. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Bouts 
conTinued From page 16 
but we do a lot of team workouts and a lot of events with the team as a group. 
“[The team aspect] is some­thing that other boxing pro­grams don’t have.” 
For training, a fighter is re­quired to attend four practices a week, but many make it to five or six. and the training is no run around the lakes, law stu­dent and four-year bengal bout veteran brian salvi said.  
“it’s without question the most physically-demanding sport you could ever do,” salvi said. “it saps everything out of you.” 
salvi said bengal bouts is special to notre dame and cap­tivates the community. 
“i think it has to do with the nature of the sport,” he said. “boxing takes a tremendous amount of courage to do, be­cause when you step into the ring, you have hundreds of people watching you go one­on-one with someone, so all the failure and success is on one person. but more than that, the nature of the sport is so basic. 
“when you really break it down, it’s two guys getting into a ring fighting each other. it makes you vulnerable and puts you out on the line. one guy’s got to win and won has to lose, but through it all, everyone is rooting for each other and that’s pretty special.” 
bengal bouts also attracts notre dame varsity athletes, from former leprechaun and law student dan collins to irish junior running back Tyler plantz. 
collins said being the leprechaun and bengal bouts are two very different but also meaningful experiences. 
“being the face of the irish in front of the student section is something incredible to experi­ence and it’s hard to come close to,” collins said. “but all of the grueling training that goes into boxing, and then to see it pay off in the fights, well that’s a really great experience too.” 
plantz said bengal bouts al­lows notre dame students to let frustration out. 
“its such a cool event,” plantz said. “here it’s all about academics, trying to beat ev­eryone in the classroom and then at bengal bouts, you can take out some aggression built up from the day and it’s great that it’s going towards a good cause.” 
To begin the preliminar­ies with a bang, a marquee matchup to watch tonight is law student gage o’connell 
— who trained as an mma fighter in Thailand between graduating from the university of pennsylvania and attending notre dame — against junior connor noda, who was a karate world champion in high school. 

“i think it will be a great fight,” o’connell said. “we’ve sparred before, and he’s a good athlete. a big advantage for him is that he’s taller and has more reach. he’s going to be keeping me outside and i am trying to get inside. it’s going to be good.” 
preliminary rounds begin tonight at 6 p.m. in the Joyce athletic and convocation center field house, and those who advance will fight in the quarterfinals and semifinals in upcoming weeks, with the opportunity to fight in purcell pavilion for the finals. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at               ilorton@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
belles prepare for senior night 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
coming off a 72-61 loss to alma on saturday, saint mary’s commemorates se­nior night wednesday, with the belles playing host to hope in their season finale. 
in the belles’ matchup against alma, a furious sec­ond-half comeback, which included a 15-0 saint mary’s 
“This team has come a long way since Oct. 15.” 
Jenn Henley 
Belles coach 
run, had the belles believing they would snap their recent losing streak. but it was not in the cards, as alma pulled away in the final minute. 
hope (22-1, 13-1 miaa), currently sitting in second place in the miaa, will pres­ent an even greater chal­lenge for the young belles (5-19, 3-12), with the Flying dutch’s only loss this season coming to no. 2 calvin. 
The Flying dutch play with high energy and a suf­focating defense, something belles coach Jenn henley said the team has been pre­paring for all week. 
“we have been working on getting open against defen­sive pressure … and making better decisions on offense to cut down our turnovers, both being big keys to the game,” she said. 
Turnovers especially could decide this game. in the teams’ first matchup, an 87-41 Flying dutch victory, hope took advantage of the belles’ mistakes, scoring 31 points off 31 turnovers. by contrast, saint mary’s was only able to force 16 Flying dutch turnovers. 
despite the team’s current eight-game losing streak, henley said the team has improved much more than their record suggests. she said tomorrow’s game will be a game of pride, par­ticularly for the belles’ two seniors. 
“This team has come a long way since oct. 15,” she said. “Tomorrow night is our last chance to put it all together and send out [seniors] kayla wolter and annie doyle on a good note as they finish their careers at saint mary’s.” 
The belles tip off against the Flying dutch at 7:30 
p.m. at the angela athletic center. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at     agodeaux@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 


paid adverTisemenT 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTrick cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: mike posner, 25; christina ricci, 33; darren aronofsky, 44; Josh brolin, 45 
Happy Birthday: improve your living arrangements or make a move. attempts to make your life better will pay off. use discipline and you will reach your goals. edu­cational pursuits or having more to do with youngsters will lead to greater happiness. protect your health and incorporate unique ideas into everything you do. progressive action will bring good results. your numbers are 4, 13, 16, 23, 30, 37, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): someone interesting who can offer you good advice or an opportunity will come into your life if you volunteer or use your talents to help others. a serious union will help you explore new possibilities. your past experience will pay off. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): share information and you will come up with something that works. you will make new allies and bring about a collaboration with people who share your concerns, values and solutions. discipline coupled with action will pay off. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Too much of anything will turn into a bad experience. you have to gauge your time and your input so that you aren’t taken advantage of or treated wrongly. Focus on what you know you can accomplish, not what others want you to do.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): a steady pace will ensure that you make headway. put a little muscle behind whatever you set out to do. strength, courage and originality will be what lead to your success. a serious relationship must be nurtured. impulse is the enemy. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): visit unfamiliar places and interact with people who come from different walks of life and you will gather interesting information that will en­able you to let go of the past and move full speed into the future. love is in the stars. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t judge others or jump to conclusions without having all the facts. Take your time, listen and show compassion. communicating openly will help you decide what to do next. don’t allow someone’s demands to ruin your plans. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): revisit old ideas and do what you can to spice things up. This time you will get a far better reaction if you let your imagination wander and your creativity flow. don’t worry about others. put your needs first and foremost. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): put more time and effort into creative endeavors. not everyone will appreciate what you do, but the ones who do will also offer contribu­tions that will help you develop something unique and serviceable with potential to be profitable as well. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): listen, but hold your response until it’s appropriate. you will face trouble, opposition and challenges if you are too outspoken or pushy about what you want to see happen. stick close to home and prepare what you want to do next. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you’ll need to show compassion if you want others to help in return. someone will have a change of heart or make last-minute changes, but you mustn’t let this deter you from following through with your plans. use your imagination. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Focus on the positive and look at what you can gain by attending a lecture or talking to someone with experience in a field that interests you. you’ll come across an opportunity that can result in a new beginning. embrace change.  

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): stabilize your situation, taking control and making things happen. it’s up to you to enforce what you want and to follow through. you have great ideas and the drive to excel. don’t let a personal contract interfere with your plans. 

Birthday Baby: you are emotional, driven and competitive. you think big and take action. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  



The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Turning the corner 
Following 5-OT upset, No. 21 Notre Dame hopes to keep momentum rolling against Blue Demons 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
heading into last year’s court-storming upset of then-no. 1 syracuse, notre dame was 3-3 in conference play and 11-8 overall. The irish won that game and the next eight and closed out the big east season on a 9-2 tear. 
This season, the no. 21 irish were 4-4 in their previ­ous eight games before down­ing then-no. 11 louisville on saturday. notre dame (19-5, 7-4 big east) is hoping the thrilling victory can spark a hot streak, just as the syracuse win did last year. 
“i think it could [be a turn­ing point],” irish senior for­ward Jack cooley said after the 104-101 win. “This was a very, very big win. and if you think last year, the only game we had that was this hyped was the syracuse game. coach [mike] brey said that. and that turned into a turning point. 
“i honestly think that we can rattle off the rest of them. i mean i haven’t looked at a game on our schedule — ex­cept for maybe [louisville] at home [in louisville, ky.], and that’s going to be a tough one. 
but we know we can play well against them — that might be out of our reach. i think that we’re a great team and just the way we play together is just phenomenal.” 
First up for the irish is depaul on wednesday night at purcell pavilion. The blue demons (10-13, 1-9) took notre dame to overtime Feb. 2 before the irish put depaul away 79-71 in the extra time. 
coming off a five-overtime marathon saturday — the longest game in notre dame history — the irish have been focused on recharging head­ing into wednesday’s tilt. 
irish junior guard eric atkins played 60 minutes against the cardinals and said after the game that the key to prepar­ing for the blue demons is to refuel. 
“i think we’re all going to get some sleep tonight,” atkins said in the early hours of sunday morning. “so just rest­ing throughout the day and then probably take it easy on monday and then get things revved up Tuesday and then get ready for depaul. last year they played us here really tough, so we have to be ready for another good game.” 


last season at purcell pavilion, the blue demons led the irish 68-65 with less than eight minutes remaining. notre dame, however, took control late and eventually de­feated depaul 84-76. 
The blue demons have lost eight consecutive games and in the big east, a game-and­a-half back of conference-leading syracuse and a half game back of fourth-place pittsburgh. 
“we’re just trying to get one win at a time,” sherman said. 
see depaul PAGE 12 

MEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, kenTucky 3 
Irish fall to Wildcats 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
despite no. 29 notre dame’s best efforts, no. 7 kentucky came back from behind to win a close 4-3 match Tuesday afternoon at the hilary J. boone varsity Tennis center in lexington, ky. The squad’s record now stands at 5-4, with all losses attributed to ranked opponents. 
“it was definitely a long and tough-fought match, and we just came up a little short today,” junior ryan bandy said. “but we will learn from this loss and move forward.” 
notre dame took a strong start by winning the doubles match, an area of play the team often struggles with. on the third court, bandy and junior matt dooley took down the kentucky duo of freshman beck pennington and senior anthony rossi by a score of 8-5. kentucky’s top doubles team evened play when no. 35 junior Tom Jomby and freshman kevin lai took down the irish duo of no. 15 junior greg andrews and senior spencer Talmadge. Junior billy pecor and freshman alex lawson came through with the 8-6 win over ju­niors ryuji hirooka and alejandro gomez to secure the first irish point. 

“winning the doubles point is always something we strive for because it provides great momen­tum going into the singles,” bandy said. 
unfortunately, the momentum was not quite enough to power the irish through the later singles matches. kentucky immedi­ately bounced back on the no. 2 court, when no. 15 Jomby took down senior blas moros 6-3, 6-2. kentucky’s rossi then took anoth­er point, beating andrews in the no. 1 spot in straight sets, 7-5, 6-3. 
with the irish down 2-1, fresh­man Quentin monaghan beat gomez 6-4, 7-6 in the no. 3 singles 
see Tennis PAGE 11 
10 of their last 11. despite their recent struggles, irish senior center garrick sherman said notre dame needs to employ a game-by-game approach dur­ing this difficult homestretch of the regular season. 
with seven games remain­ing, the irish are tied for fourth 
BENGAL BOUTS 
prelims kick off 83rd bouts 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
in training they solidified their bonds of camaraderie, but in the ring those bonds will no longer matter — at least for 10 minutes. 
This is what makes the bengal bouts, which kicks off its 83rd year tonight with the preliminary rounds, so unique. 
more than 400 men of differ­ent backgrounds went through grueling training together be­ginning in october, and 180 will compete in front of the notre dame community and raise money for the holy cross missions in bangladesh. 
last year the irish men’s boxing program sold more than 3,000 tickets to the bouts and raised $150,000 for the holy cross missions in bangladesh. The money is then divided between 13 different parish­es, which use the money for whatever they most need. 
“our dual mission of boxing and fundraising for the holy cross missions in bangladesh makes [bengal bouts] unique,” senior captain and vice presi­dent Jack lally said. “other box­ing programs are 100 percent about the boxing and 100 per­cent about getting kids ready to fight. That’s part of what we do, but the other part of what we do is charity. That’s the reason we exist, really.” 
Training as a group adds to the uniqueness of bengal bouts, lally said. 
“we train together as a team whereas a lot of other boxing venues don’t do that,” lally said. “boxing is an individual sport in a lot of people’s minds. They think that you compete one-on-one, so you should train by yourself and prepare yourself however you see fit. 
see bouTs PAGE 14 





