THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY’S 



College of Science dean writes memoir 
Gregory Crawford reflects on his time at Notre Dame and his connections to community members 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
In the mere four years since he joined the Notre Dame family as the dean of the College of Science in 2008, Gregory Crawford has rid­den his bike across the coun­try three times, met two U.S. presidents and traveled to Haiti on several occasions. 
In his recently published book, “The Education of a Notre Dame Science Dean: My Four-Year Ride with the Irish,” Crawford recounts his experiences thus far in his tenure at the University and the ways they have impacted him personally. 
Although he began writ­ing the book in September, Crawford said he contemplat­ed the focus of the book dur­ing his third cross-country bike ride, this one stretching from Boston to California. 
“I think it was all about the people,” he said. “I was origi­nally only going to write it for my daughters, but then someone said, ‘You should really launch this thing be­cause other people would like to read about … how you can learn as an adult.” 
Crawford said he considered his personal growth in light of two commencement speeches he has given: one at Trinity School in South Bend shortly after he arrived at Notre Dame and one last spring at his alma 
see CRAWFORD PAGE 5 



Interdisciplinary minor explores global development 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 

The University’s International Development Studies (IDS) minor not only affords students the opportunity to study the challenges facing devel­oping countries in the classroom, but it also allows them to go out and research these difficulties for themselves. 
Senior IDS minor Kristen Kelly spent the past two summers in rural Uganda conducting research on participatory development initiatives and the importance of women in these communi­ty-driven projects. 
“Issues, challenges and ideas regarding the struggle for this development have wholly and completely enthralled me,” Kelly said. “I love any­thing and everything related to development.” 
The Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity, which is 
see MINOR PAGE 6 




Keenan Hall prepares for annual Revue 
By KATIE McCARTY 
News Writer 
The annual Keenan Revue will be held this weekend at Stepan Center, and senior producer Brian Ward said this year’s line­up is better and more hilarious than ever. 
Ward, who organized the Revue alongside senior direc­tor Tyler Gregory, said Keenan 
see KEENAN PAGE 6 



SMC launches capital campaign 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s director of me­dia relations Gwen O’Brien encouraged students to join the community in launching Faith Always, Action Now, the capital campaign that seeks to raise $80 million for scholar­ships, professorships, selected facility improvements and oth­er projects, for the College. 
The reception will be held at 6 p.m. Friday in the O’Laughlin Auditorium lobby, hosting members of the community before the campaign launch event, which begins at 7 p.m.
 “This event is not something to miss,” O’Brien said. “The reception and launch event will definitely excite students about Saint Mary’s and its fu­ture with this campaign.” 
Alumna Lindsey Anderson, a professional opera singer, is currently on campus to act as the storyteller for the eve­ning, student body president Maureen Parsons said. 
“Current students will be sharing their Saint Mary’s story and there will be video throughout as well,” she said. “The program is emotional and touching, and I think will be something students who at­tend will never forget.” 
Students are also encour­aged to attend the Heritage Week dinner, which begins tonight at 5:15 p.m. Special guest speakers include board chair Mary L. Burke, a 1985 alumna, and Sister Veronique Wiedower, a 1970 graduate of the College. 
“The Heritage Week dinner is an annual event we have dur­ing this week each year. This year it is a little different be­cause of the capital campaign launch,” Parsons said. “Mary Burke is going to speak to the students about what the capital campaign is, what we are rais­ing money for and why it is im­portant for current students.” 
As a senior, Parsons knows she and her peers may never see the changes while stu­dents but said students must remember that “the renova­tions and new buildings we have currently are because of 
see CAMPAIGN PAGE 7 


SNITE SEWING PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 8 SCENE PAGE 10 BENGAL BOUTS PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle  Jeff Liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: Kristen Durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: Dan Brombach Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Courtney Cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Monica McCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Who are you rooting for in Bengal Bouts? 

Grace Choe 
freshman 
Ryan Hall 

“My brother Sunoh Choe and my sister sweetheart Joey Kim.” 
Daniel Lee 
freshman St. Edward’s Hall 

“Sunoh Choe, Joey Kim and Mike Flanigan.” 
Michael Judd 
sophomore 
O’ Neill Hall 
“I am rooting for Garrity McOsker.” 


Connor Chelsky 
sophomore 
Alumni Hall 
“Scott Rousseau.” 
Garrity McOsker 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
“Eamon McOsker.” 
Joe Brogan 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
“Richard Davenport Neville.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Ann Marie Jakubowski Mike Monaco Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Kaitlyn Rabach Vicky Jacobsen Charitha Isanaka Dong-Hyun Kim 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Brandon Keelean Miko Malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Grad Club Fair Train Your Inner Jedi! Annual Bridal Expo Men’s Basketball “Indictment of Child 
Mackenzie Sain Dan Brombach 
Hesburgh Library St. Liam Hall 9:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Purcell Pavilion Labor by the Arts” 11 a.m. - 2 p.m. 3:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Joyce Center 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. Hesburgh Center Get involved with ND Workshop to cultivate Fashion shows by Notre Dame vs. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

clubs and activities. focus and calmness. Ashlee Rene’s Bridal. Cincinnati. CCHR Symposium. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Sewing Circle by National International Campus Girl Scouts “Accurate Filtering 
strives for the highest standards 
Marie Watt Recreational Sports Children’s Festival Cookie Booth Sale with 3DVAR for 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Snite Museum of Art & Fitness Day University Village LaFortune Student Dissipative Systems” 
however, recognize that we will make 
10 a.m. - 7:30 p.m. Rolfs Sports Apartments Center Hayes-Healy Center 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
Third Thursdays @ the Recreation Center 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. 2: 30 p.m. - 4 p.m. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Snite. All day International arts and Email grlscout@ ACMS Colloquium. 
we can correct our error. 

Free giveaways. crafts for children. nd.edu for information. 


SENATE 

Group discusses in-hall librarians, successors’ training 

By MADDIE DALY 
News Writer 
In the closing weeks of its term, the Student Senate fo­cused on a potential resolution to implement an in-hall librar­ian for every dorm and dis­cussed preparations to train the Senate’s successors. 
Director of academic affairs Maxwell Brown introduced the resolution to the senators at Wednesday’s meeting. 
“O’Neill Hall and McGlinn Hall have had a librarian in resi­dence this semester that came for two hours a week to answer questions,” Brown said.  “This resolution will expand the pro­gram to include every dorm on campus.” 
O’Neill Hall senator Jack McKeon said the service was very helpful and well-received by his hall members. 
“The librarian in O’Neill has been awesome,” McKeon said. “We basically just ask any ques­tions we have and he helps us with the research.” 
Brown said he hopes to get the program established quick­ly and expand it as necessary. 
“In terms of the weekly to monthly visits, the idea would be weekly in every dorm,” Brown said.  “I’d like to have the program in place as soon as possible though, so if that has to happen at a monthly basis at first it will gradually increase to weekly.” 

A key aspect of the resolution is bringing the library resources directly to the students and giv­ing them access to the best pro­fessional research librarians, according to Brown. 
“There is so much available at Hesburgh [Library] that people sometimes don’t know about or don’t live close enough to so this provides an in-dorm opportu­nity,” Brown said. 
The group voted unanimous­ly for the resolution. 
Student body vice president Katie Rose spoke about her preparations for the student government transitions, which will begin next week. 
“You’ll see [incoming student body president] Alex [Coccia] and [incoming student body vice president] Nancy [Joyce] at all our senate and CLC meet­ings,” Rose said.  “We will also have ...  meetings with them to cover everything from structure of the student union to campus initiatives.  We will also be hav­ing one-on-one meetings with our successors.” 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

The outgoing group has also put together detailed binders containing a report outlining all of the year’s accomplishments as well as a lengthy contact list, Rose said. 
“We are hoping to have a very thorough transition so that Alex and Nancy can jump right in on April 1,” Rose said. 
Club Coordination Council 
(CCC) president Hannah Burke introduced her nominee for the 2013-2014 school year, Maggie Armstrong. 
“Maggie is a junior science-business major living in Walsh Hall and has served as a mem­ber of the Social Service division of the CCC,” Burke said. 
Student Union Treasurer Alexa Shaw also introduced her 
prospective  successor,  junior  
Andrew Lall.  
“Andrew  is  from  Zahm  

[Housel and studies finance and classics,” Shaw said.  “His wit and sense of humor, coupled with is impressive dedication to academics, make him a great candidate for the position.” 
The group voted unanimous­ly to appoint Armstrong and Lall to their respective positions. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
Snite Museum hosts sewing circle 
By EVELYN HUANG 
News Writer 
A sewing circle today at the Snite Museum of Art will allow members of the Notre Dame community to contribute stitches to an art project spearheaded by contemporary artist Marie Watt. 
The project is part of the “Dreams Wiser than Waking: Recent Acquisitions of Native American Prints” exhibit, according to Cheryl Snay, curator of European art at the Snite. Watt, one of the exhibit’s featured art­ists, will lead the event from 10 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. 
At the sewing circle, par­ticipants will contribute stitches to a set structure of blankets and fabric that Watt has created, which will eventually culminate into a greater piece of art, Snay said. No sewing experience is necessary, and everyone from the South Bend and Notre Dame communities is invited to join and receive a small silkscreen print from Watt. 
Snay said this is a great way to promote a welcom­ing atmosphere and extend the Snite’s outreach in the community. 
“We want people to come to the Snite and to think of the Snite as a warm and welcoming place where people can share stories and experiences,” she said. “Ultimately, we are trying to cultivate this kind of at­titude, and there are many opportunities to partici­pate in art in a variety of fashions.” 
Furthermore, this sewing circle is a way to tie together Notre Dame students with the surrounding communi­ty, Snay said. 
“This event was designed for all students, not just art students,” she said. “We also want to foster an en­vironment where the gen­eral community can come in and interact with the faculty, staff and students. Everyone can benefit from these mutual experiences.” 
Watt’s idea that art should be participatory and com­munity building is reflected in the nature of the project, Snay said, because every­one that adds a stitch to the structure is contributing to a greater work of art. 
“Watt considers some­one’s stitches their signa­tures, so she will not change them,” Snay said. “She feels as if their stitches are their contribution.” 
After hosting the sew­ing circle at the University, Watt will bring the struc­ture to another museum or campus where more people can add to the piece. 
While the sewing circle is just for today, the “Dreams Wiser than Waking” exhibit will stay at the Snite until Mar. 17. This exhibit, lo­cated in the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio, showcases Native American art that is interested in straddling two worlds, Snay said. 
“They question how they can negotiate between their culture and the “dominant culture,” this is a lot of what their art is about,” she said. 
Contact Evelyn Huang at ehuang1@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

SMC office helps women SPARK businesses 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s Women’s Entrepreneurship Initiative (WEI) has opened its application process for the fourth session of SPARK, an eleven-week entrepre­neurship training program for women in the greater South Bend community. 
“Our SPARKlers have been very successful ... They have started bilingual daycares, catering services, fitness centers and those are just to name a few. Not only do they leave with the spark to start their own businesses, but each women blossoms and leaves with increased                self-confidence.” 
Martha  Smith 
project director 
WEI 
SPARK 2013 will take place from March 5 to May 16, and partici­pants can choose between morn­ing and evening classes, which run for three hours on Tuesdays and Thursdays. 
“Since we started in 2011, the SPARK program has re­ally grown,” WEI project direc­tor Martha Smith said. “We started with just one session a year and then moved up to two. Inaugurating the evening classes will allow more women to apply for the program. This way we can help spark more businesses.” 
The program is dedicated to assisting low- to middle-income women in the community gain more business knowledge on how to become entrepreneurs, Smith said. Each woman applies for the program with a business idea and if accepted, she expands her business plan so it can become a reality. 
Juli Turrell, who works as a re­altor with Kaser Realty in South Bend, is one of this year’s appli­cants. Turrell said she wants to open an alternative therapeutic center in the community. 
“A friend told me about the pro­gram and it seemed like a perfect fit,” Turrell said. “I would like to be an entrepreneur, but there is just so much that I do not know. I hope to be accepted into this pro­gram so I can get my business up and running within the next six to nine months.” 
The SPARK program is modeled after a San Francisco non-profit called the Women’s Initiative, Smith said. Both programs in­clude intense training sessions on topics like marketing, break-even points, mission statements, busi­ness plans, stress management, networking, record-keeping and loan information. 
“SPARK has three phases,” Smith said. “First we begin with the screening sessions, and then we move to program acceleration or the 11-week training sessions. 
“However, we do not stop there. The third phase is ‘rekindling the flame’. Participants must attend monthly meetings and we pro­vide mentorship for up to a year after the training sessions are finished.” 
Smith said the greater South Bend community has played a significant role in funding the SPARK program. The main spon­sors for the program are First Source, PNC Bank, NIBSCO and Key Bank, as well as small donors from the community. 
“The beauty of this program is that it’s Saint Mary’s College fa­cilitating a program sponsored by a group of members in the 

“The center is very proud to support SPARK’s mission of making our local economy more inclusive and fostering the creative energy of the women of our community.” 
James Kelly 
Clinical professor of law 

community,” Smith said. “It is from the community and for the 
community.” 
Since its first session in 2011, Saint Mary’s has collaborated with the Notre Dame Clinic Law Center to help participants have a better grasp on the legal aspects of owning their own business. 
Clinical professor of law James Kelly oversees his third-year law students at the center, helping to draft and review contracts, advise and represent clients on leasing, employment and other regula­tory compliance obligations. 
“While we represent both non­profits and for-profits, the small business clients referred to us from SPARK are a highly valued part of our client base,” Kelly said. “The women receiving business training and mentoring from SPARK are starting interesting and exciting new ventures that benefit greatly from the legal ad­vice and representation that our certified law interns provide. 
“The center is very proud to support SPARK’s mission of mak­ing our local economy more inclusive and fostering the cre­ative energy of the women of our community.” 
Smith said she is thankful for the clinic’s work and believes this collaboration will only improve the program’s 55 percent success rate. 
“Our SPARKlers have been very successful,” Smith said. “They have started bilingual daycares, catering services, fitness centers and those are just to name a few. Not only do they leave with the spark to start their own busi­nesses, but each woman blos­soms and leaves with increased self-confidence.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Crawford 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
mater, Kent State University. 
“I was sort of reflecting on two kind of endpoints,” he said. “I saw how my mes­sage changed and was sort of thinking about why that was the case.” 
Crawford said he realized the four years he spent at Notre Dame between those public addresses prompted a profound change in his mind-Barack Obama, in addition of Notre Dame and the United set and experiences. to scores of Notre Dame stu-States and how he influenced 

“I’ve been so influenced by dents and alumni. These en-it.” Notre Dame students, alumni counters form the core of his Crawford said he recalls and the sort of bigger mission book’s content, Crawford said. feeling “almost flabbergast­[of Notre Dame],” he said. With regard to the time ed” when Carter sought out “That’s how I started to put he spent with Hesburgh, the Notre Dame delegation in [the book] together.” Crawford said its signifi-Haiti in 2008. 
During his tenure at the cance was “not so much about “When [Carter] said, ‘Hey, University, Crawford has had fishing.” are you with Notre Dame?’ the opportunity to fish with “I mean, who can say they’ve I really realized how lead-University President Emeritus [fished with Hesburgh]?” he ers and presidents actually Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and said. “It’s about spending view the University and how meet former U.S. President three days on a lake listening much they knew about it,” Jimmy Carter and President to him talk about the history Crawford said. “In some ways 
I was shocked, but after you PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
think about it, you’re like, no kidding, of course they know Notre Dame and understand its values and really cherish what we’re trying to accom­plish here.” 
But as the Dean of Notre 
“We’re doing everything we can and partnering with anybody else who shares our mission and passion for finding a cure for this disease.” 
Gregory Crawford 
dean of College of Science 

Dame’s College of Science, one of Crawford’s most cher­ished relationships is his “phenomenal partnership” with the family of former foot­ball coach Ara Parseghian and the medical research founda­tion named for him. 
As a result of the diagnosis and eventual passing of three of Parseghian’s grandchildren with the rare genetic disease Niemann-Pick Type C (NPC), Crawford said the University has committed strongly to finding a cure for the disease through research. 
“Since we have such a connection with the fam­ily … we want to be the ones that really solve this in the future,” he said. “We’re doing everything we can and part­nering with anybody else who shares our mission and pas­sion for finding a cure for this disease.” 


Crawford himself has made a personal commitment to the cause by contributing all pro­ceeds from his book to the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation and completing three transcontinental bike rides to raise awareness of NPC. 
But more important than the research itself has been Crawford’s friendship with Cindy Parseghian, one of the foundation’s co-founders and a member of the Science Advisory Board, Crawford said. 
“What she and [husband] Mike [Parseghian] did with the foundation around the world to search for a cure for the disease that eventually took the lives of their own children … is just phenom­enal,” he said. “The hope they provide to families is just un­believable even though their kids have since passed.” 
Working so closely with the Foundation has given Crawford the chance to inter­act with legendary coach Ara Parseghian, a relationship made even more significant by the fact that Crawford’s great-uncle played football for Knute Rockne. 
“Whenever we ask [Parseghian] for anything, he’s always there. He’s the nic­est guy,” Crawford said. “He’s very passionate and an excel­lent speaker, and he talks to our scientists about finding a cure much like he probably hopped up his football team in his speeches.” 
On a daily basis, Crawford said he has been personally impacted by Notre Dame stu­dents, especially those who have joined the movement to find a cure for NPC through research and fundraising. 
“It’s been pretty incred­ible to interact with students by supporting them, having them support our efforts and, most importantly, learning from them,” he said. 
In recalling such meaning­ful life experiences and spe­cial people, Crawford said all are united by a common thread. 
“I really enjoyed [writing the book] and kind of put­ting it all together,” he said. “There’s a lot of connections between the various chap­ters, but the underlying thing is the mission of Notre Dame, which is what brings people together.” 
“The Education of a Notre Dame Science Dean” is avail­able for sale at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and through Corby Books. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Minor 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
housed at the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, created the IDS minor four years ago. 
Economics and political sci­ence professor Amitava Dutt, who is also a fellow at the Kellogg Institute, said the minor re­quires five courses, including a gateway and a capstone course and a summer research project. 
“The main focus is to allow students to develop a deep un­derstanding of international development by taking courses from a range of disciplines, giv­en the interdisciplinary nature of the subject, conduct field re­search in a developing country and write an essay related to their research,” he said. 
“If we hope to make any difference at all, we must engage in meaningful conversations with the people afflicted by these development challenges.” 
Kristen Kelly 
senior 
The interdisciplinary nature of the minor attracts students from a wide variety of back­grounds, Dutt said, such as the social sciences, philosophy, business and history. 
Part of the program’s popu­larity stems from its duality as a field of study that is both prac­tically important and intellec­tually interesting, he said. 
“Students in the program share, with the faculty, a deep commitment to the issue of de­velopment in the poorer coun­tries of the world, arguably one of the most important and difficult problems faced by the world today,” Dutt said. 
Kelly, one such student com­mitted to alleviating these is­sues, said she decided to minor in IDS as soon as she learned of the program. 
“The ability to grapple with some of the most pressing de­velopment challenges of our time, for some of the most vul­nerable people in the world, with some of the most passion­ate students and professors on campus was an opportunity I could not miss out on,” she said. 
In addition to her two sum­mers in Uganda, Kelly said the minor has provided her with a wide range of opportunities at Notre Dame. 
“I have focused my entire course of study, as well as the extracurricular activities I par­ticipate in here at Notre Dame, around issues of international development,” she said. “I have also presented my research at a couple of different confer­ences, allowing me to share my passion and research findings 

with other interested students  campus to Keenan  light in a funny way.” audience members but won’t  
and academic professionals.” As a senior, Kelly said her  The shoCONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 pletely by  w is staffed com-disappoint anyone. Keenan residents “People are expecting there to  
background in IDS is instru­ and has be en in the works since be a lot of Manti jokes, but that  
mental in pursuing her chosen  Hall’s trademark show is “truly October, a ccording to Ward. is not something we focused  
career path. She hopes to join  the No. 1 event on campus.” To Auditions t ook place at the be-on this year,” Ward said. “We  
an organization that is com- avoid any past censorship is-ginning of  the semester for the actually included a lot of self­ 
mitted to fighting for human  sues from resurfacing, Gregory lineup of c omedy skits and vari­defacing humor, so we are able  
rights of the most vulnerable  said they worked with the Office ous musica l acts that Ward de­to poke fun at other things. We  
world citizens.  of Student Affairs to collaborate scribed as  similar to Saturday also have a ton of talented musi- 
In particular, Kelly said  beforehand. Night Live.  Typically, the three cians in the show.”  
she wishes to continue work­ “We have made extra efforts performan ces draw about 4,500 Ward said the show takes  
ing on development problems  this year to make sure we will audience m embers in total. thousands of dollars to put on  
both in the United States and  not have problems,” Gregory “The au dition process took because professional lighting  
in the countries that require  said. “We met with Amy Geist, place all  on one Saturday,” technicians and stage crew are  
assistance.  the assistant director of the Ward said.  “We auditioned all hired to work the performances.  
“As the IDS minor has taught  Office of Student Affairs, and the skits, a nd then had review Keenan alumni donate money  
me, we can’t hope to fix any of  went over all the content to meeting a nd picked 25 for the to run the show every year.  
the world’s problems by sitting  make sure it is appropriate.” actual sho w.” “Everyone should come out  
in a classroom or office reading  The theme of this year’s In add ition, Ward and and see the greatest show on  
about them,” she said. “If we  show is “Much Revue About Gregory is sued a constitution campus,” Ward said. “We sold  
hope to make any difference at  Nothing,” a reference to the to all partic ipants that provided out our tickets in 45 minutes,  
all, we must engage in mean- Shakespeare play “Much Ado guidelines  on the appropriate but if anyone wants to go and  
ingful conversations with the  About Nothing,” Ward said. level of hu mor and also held a does not have a ticket, stop by at  
people afflicted by these devel­ “The actual Shakespeare play panel that r eviewed all the skits’ show time and we may have an  
opment challenges.”  is all about issues coming to content sp ecifically to ensure it extra for you.”  

Contact Mel Flanagan at               mflanag3@nd.edu 

light,” Ward said. “We are do­ing the same thing with Notre Dame and bringing issues on was appropriate. 
Ward and Gregory said the content might surprise some 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Indiana teacher suspended 
Associated Press 
FARMERSBURG, Ind. — An Indiana school district reel­ing from the uproar over a teacher’s comments that she believes gays have no purpose in life suspended the woman Wednesday. 
Superintendent Mark Baker 

messages.” 
“We are turning over to law enforcement all such commu­nications,” Baker said. 
The superintendent did not identify the teacher, but spe­cial education teacher Diana Medley’s comments have circulated widely on social networking sites amid news coverage in nearby Sullivan of a non-school sanctioned prom that would ban gay stu­dents. Sullivan, a city of about 
4,200,  is  near  the  Illinois  
border.  
“I  just  ... I  don’t  under­ 

stand it,” Medley said when asked whether homosexuals have a purpose in life. She was speaking to WTWO-TV of Terre Haute at a planning meeting earlier this month for the anti-gay dance. 
Medley, who has no pub­lished telephone number, couldn’t be reached for com­ment Wednesday. She didn’t immediately respond to a message that The Associated Press sent to her school email account. 
“As many of you know and appreciate, our school cor­poration is continuing to manage as responsibly and respectfully as possible the fallout from comments made by an employee as she attend­ed a meeting outside of school or a school activity,” Baker said. “We have conveyed our disappointment and our disagreement with these statements and have empha­sized her comments do not reflect our schools’ views or opinions.” 
As of Wednesday, a peti­tion on Change.org calling for Medley’s dismissal had generated more than 19,500 signatures from as far away as the United Kingdom. 
Campaign 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
past alumnae investing in the College as well.” 
Also part of the campaign launch festivities was a faculty luncheon hosted by College President Carol Ann Mooney on Wednesday afternoon that awarded two faculty mem­bers for their excellence at the College. 
“These awards, made pos­sible by the generosity of two alumnae and their spouses, recognize faculty members who are deeply dedicated to their students, their scholar­ship, and their communities,” a College press releasee said. 
Mary Ann Merryman, pro­fessor of business and account­ing, was presented The Donald 
R. and Nora Barry Fischer Faculty Award for Teaching Excellence. This award, named for the 1973 graduates of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, re­spectively, recognizes excel­lence in discipline-specific teaching by a faculty member in upper-division courses in a major, the press release said. 
“In addition to her typical teaching responsibilities, over the past nine years, Merryman has organized and coached a team of four to compete in the INCPAS Case Competition, competing against teams from colleges and universities across Indiana,” the press re­lease said. “Merryman has led Saint Mary’s teams to the final sixfor seven of the last eight years with the teams finishing first in 2010 and 2011.” 
Merryman is a certified pub­lic accountant account who re­ceived her Bachelor of Science from Manchester College and her Master of Science in Accountancy from Notre Dame. 
Jayne Kendle, associate pro­fessor of nursing, was pre­sented with The Kevin J. and Marijo Rogers Kelly Service Award, named for the 1977 graduates of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, respectively. This award recognizes a faculty member who demonstrates exceptional commitment to local, regional, national or in­ternational service to his or her academic field, according to the press release. 
“Kendle has expanded her service role to include serv­ing as a Board member of the O’Hana Heritage Foundation helping to establish A Rosie Place, a specialty care hospital for medically fragile children,” the press release said. “She continues to work to educate Indiana legislators and work with the State Department of Public Health to secure funds to support these families.” 
Kendle received her Bachelor of Science in Nursing from the University of Evansville and has a Master of Science in Nursing from the University of Missouri. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
of the Northeast School Corp. in western Indiana’s Sullivan County issued a statement saying the teacher has been placed on administrative leave out of concern “for the safety and security of everyone in our buildings.” He added that “as a precaution” the Sullivan County Sheriff’s Department 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

and Indiana State Police “have deemed it necessary to station an officer” at North Central Junior-Senior High School in Farmersburg, about 75 miles southwest of Indianapolis. 
He said the “administration and one school employee in particular” at the school have received “aggressive email 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Nobody’s perfect 

Laura Coletti 
Sports Writer 

I feel bad for people who have it easy all the time. 
I might sound crazy, but it’s true. If I could have a perfect life or a life full of mistakes, I’d take the latter in a heartbeat. 
Mistakes are fun. Mistakes make life interesting. Mistakes are good to learn from. And if variety is the spice of life, well, consider mistakes crushed red pepper; you’d never eat it on its own, but it defi­nitely gives your food more flavor. 
Mistakes are certainly essential to mak­ing the most of college. Not that there is anything wrong with the kids who know that they want to be doctors from Day One and then, in fact, become doctors. Personally, though, I got a really worth­while experience from the roundabout path I took to becoming a finance major. And guess what? I don’t even want to work in financial services. I want to work in public relations. That’s another thing mis­takes are good for — learning what you want through discovering what you don’t want. 
Mistakes teach lessons. Over my col­legiate career, mistakes have allowed my outlook on social life to shift from “I’m doing this because norms say I should” to “I’m doing what I feel comfortable with, and if people think less of me because of it, that’s their loss.” Those are some of my favorite lessons from mistakes, because they’ve led to the absolutely wonderful group of friends I have today. Mistakes help you figure out the people you really want to stick around and who you’re bet­ter off without. 
Mistakes make you better. Maybe it’s just my competitive nature, but few things irk me more than not being as good as other people at something I care about. Without ever experiencing failure, where would our competitive drive come from? 
At the risk of sounding parental, mis­takes build character. They help you real­ize things about the world around you as well as things about yourself. And believe me, life is a lot easier if you can learn to laugh at yourself. 
We’re all at a point in our lives that is concentrated by very high growth — so­cially, academically and perhaps spiritu­ally. Mistakes facilitate growth, and that’s healthy. Nobody should be embarrassed by mistakes, unless they make the same ones over and over again. 
This is the prime of our lives. Let’s take risks, let’s dare to be different and let’s not be afraid of mistakes. They’re inevitable, so let us accept them as a positive instead of fearing them as a negative. There are countless clichés, sayings and songs about mistakes; take them to heart. You will be better off. 
Perfection is overrated, anyway. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Bianca Almada 
The In-Between Time 

Notre Dame is not a university known for its diversity. Most of its stu­dents fit within a certain archetype: they are white, Catholic, conservative, suburban and from the upper-middle class. Now, there is nothing wrong with fitting into this archetype. I beg this question, however: What about the students who do not? 
I am the first to admit that I lived a sheltered childhood. I was raised in the safe community of Alta Loma, Calif., attended church every Sunday and was enrolled in a private, single-sex school. Nearly everyone I knew was like me in some way — we were of the same religion, hometown or economic back­ground. For a very long time, I believed that everyone had a life like mine. I lived in a fantasy world, blissfully un­aware of the vastness of the planet. But I soon discovered that living in bubbles gets us nowhere. There is so much more to life than my personal experi­ences, my parents’ ideals and what they teach us in school. 
Now, I am a “different one” in a sea of similarity. As both a Hispanic and a not-so-conservative Notre Dame student, I argue that minority students are crucial to the development of this campus. Variety is the spice of life, and it is important to leave college know­ing that not everyone in the world is 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
exactly like you, nor should they aspire to be just like you. 
College is the in-between time be­cause college students are, or at least should be, still growing and changing before they embark on their journeys in the “real world.” They are working on fully developing their religious be­liefs, academic interests and political ideologies. In order for this to occur properly, students need the oppor­tunity to branch out and learn from people who are different from them. Continued reassurance that they are correct about everything they believe does not help them grow; in fact, it does just the opposite. 
College students need to reflect upon the ideals of their parents, com­munities and backgrounds and decide which ones they want to adopt for their adult lives rather than just accepting these ideals at face value. They must seek people who are as passionate as they are but who are also completely different from them. They should loudly state their opinions and be countered by those who disagree. They must be stimulated by the opinions of others and then reevaluate their own. 
Close-mindedness has no place on this campus. Students often arrive hav­ing a perfect idea of what they believe in their head, and that is great, unless they absolutely refuse to alter any of their perceptions. This confidence in ideology becomes negative if students refuse to be open to other thoughts, viewpoints or ways of life. It becomes negative if students enter college thinking they already know it all and that there is no room for change or im­provement regarding their opinions. 
Students who are “different” by Notre Dame standards — cultural mi­norities, homosexuals, political liber­als, non-Catholics etc. — should not focus their energy on trying to assimi­late into what they believe to be Notre Dame culture. They should celebrate their diversity and what it is that makes them different, sharing it with others instead of trying to hide it. 
I wholeheartedly enjoy being a mi­nority student. It gives me the oppor­tunity to make people familiar with things they may have never known. I have the opportunity to provide a unique perspective and to defend myself against stereotypes and mis­understandings. I can learn from the many people at this university who are different from me, and hopefully they can also learn from me. My only wish is that there were more of us to share diverse opinions and backgrounds, and that the student population might be more apt to listen and learn. 
Bianca Almada is a freshman residing in Cavanaugh Hall. She is studying English, Spanish and journalism. She can be contacted at balmada@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Only passions, great passions, can elevate the soul to great things .” 
Denis Diderot 

French philosopher 


THE OBSERVER |THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Racial hypocrisy 
Shaaya Ellis 
Reason Will Prevail 

On Feruary 6, a black man in Philadelphia dressed up in Ku Klux Klan (KKK) garb. Onlookers were outraged. Bystander comments ranged from calling him a fool and an idiot to stating that he needed to be committed to the jail system. While at first one might cast indiscriminate bile upon the black man dressed as a member as a Klan, his intentions were far from malicious, since he was on the streets of Philadelphia stressing a grave issue in America: black-on-black crime. 
Nicholas King, the black man who was festooned in KKK wear, had a sign that read “The KKK killed 3,446 blacks in 86 years while black-on-black murder surpasses that number every six months.” While King’s claim might seem outlandish at first, it is a terrible truth: Blacks have died at each others’ hands this past year far more than the Klan ever killed. According to the FBI, in 2011 more than 7,000 black people were killed. Most of these deaths were attributed to gang violence in the densely populated cites of New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Philadelphia. In Philadelphia, according to Philadelphia police, a stagger­ing 85 percent of those killed were black. Furthermore, the Centers for Disease Control report that in 2010 there were 11,078 homicides by firearm in the United States, and 7,220 of the victims  — 65 percent  — were aged 15-34. 
In addition, 6,151 —  or 56 percent — were black, a demo­graphic that comprises about 13 percent of the total U.S. population. Very few people know that so many blacks die at the hands of each other every year in the United States. 
While the black-on-black murder tragedy goes un­heard of, white-on-black murders receive a considerable amount of coverage. For instance, roughly one year ago, a Florida boy named Trayvon Martin was slain by George Zimmerman. Reports said Zimmerman claimed he was the victim and had his head smashed into the pavement; those reports also said Zimmerman had lacerations on the back of his head. The Trayvon Martin shooting saw an enormous amount of media coverage. This one incident received substantially much more press than any other black murder committed that year. 
One has to wonder what made this incident more press-worthy than any other murder committed that year, regardless of the victim’s race. What made the Trayvon Martin shooting more press-worthy was that the victim was black and Zimmerman was not. For weeks the left-wing media tried to incite a race war by proclaim that George Zimmerman was a white Hispanic. He probably is, but the same hypocritical media would not be fain to address or point out that Barrack Obama is a white African. 
What was more appalling from the hypocritical me­dia was that NBC edited the police recording to make George Zimmerman sound like an aggressive racist. 
Anyone who heard the news clip was convinced that George Zimmerman was the aggressor and was racist, even though all it has been long since revealed that the tape was edited. Nonetheless, we do not see major news conglomerates fabricating the truth to incite racial ten­sion when reporting black-on-black crime. I would be surprised to actually see anyone report that more blacks die at each others’ hands each year than the Klan killed in 86 years. 
While the media is a significant perpetrator of racial hypocrisy in America, so-called civil rights leaders like Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson play a role as well. These so-called civil right leaders are nothing more than race-hustlers who have no vested interest in discussing black-on-black crime. These people derive their power by brainwashing black people into think that the “white man” has his foot on their neck. This could not be further from the truth. The crime statistics clearly show that black people every year die from each other in staggering numbers. For the race-hustlers it is simply racial hypoc­risy. Selling racial tension is much easier to sell than black street thugs shooting each other up. 
Shaaya Ellis is a sophomore political science ma­jor with a classics minor. He can be contacted at sellis2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

How we work together 
Daniel Delaney 
Brown Daily Herald 

How do we work together? That seems to me to be the question for this new year. We’ve certainly spent more than enough time learning how to disagree. 
Just ask the United States Congress how much they know about that. I’ve learned a lot from them about disagreement and not working with others. U.S. history teaches us this country was built on com­promise, a system of give-and-take and, above all, an underlying mutual respect for the person sitting next to you. The idea was that if our representatives worked together, the country would work better. 
But you know what’s a great example of our coun­try’s compromising values? The $1.3 billion that lawmakers cost the U.S. government while they were holding the debt ceiling hostage in 2011. The threat of a potential debt downgrade nearly blasted another hole in our already-precarious economic system. The $1.3 billion was the minimum loss estimate. But what’s ironic is they did it all over again on the fiscal cliff. 
A message to Congress: The next time there’s another chance to have an incredibly vacuous ar­gument about whether or not to move the country forward, please remember how much money it costs to bicker. 
But Congress certainly wasn’t the only one teach­ing class in recent years. My man Mitt Romney sure gave his fair share of classroom lectures. I learned from Romney that changing your opinions to please people is a good way to try to get ahead in the world. I learned that if you work towards avoiding peoples’ concerns, rich folks will give you lots of money to keep doing it. But most importantly, I learned that caring 47 percent about anything gets you nowhere 
— sorry Mitt. 
I mock what I watched this November, but it’s not with pleasure that I do so. I love this country and I find it disheartening that the 2012 presidential elec­tion reminded me more of a censored Jerry Springer episode than a contest between great men of great intent and aspiration. President Obama lost the first debate not because Romney had any content to his argument, but because Obama underestimated Romney’s capacity for obfuscation and his determi­nation to reposition himself — yet again — to suit the mood of the general electorate. 
It’s sad that we live in a time in which people are so uninformed and uninterested in working towards a common good and that politics is now a form of entertainment — or blood sport — instead of the respected form of civil service that produced great men and women in our history. How can it be that we claim to be the descendants of the “Greatest Generation,” a group of people whose great strength lay in their understanding that, at times, individual sacrifice and compromise are necessary in order for everyone to be better off? 
Two months ago, a gunman in Connecticut mowed down 27 people: 20 small children, six teachers and his mother. This happened three days after a gun­man shot up a mall in Oregon and in the same year as fatal mass shootings in Minneapolis; Tulsa, Okla., a Sikh temple, the midnight showing of a movie, a cof­fee bar in Seattle and a Halloween party on a college campus. Twenty-seven, two, six, three, six, 12, six, two. That’s a body count of 64. It’s time to ask again: How do we work together? 
It’s time that our political system answer that ques­tion and learn to live within the times — not expect the times to live with them. 
Our age is being reshaped by mass communica­tion and mass communication is where change will begin. I loved that after every presidential debate, Facebook turned into a political forum for ideas and opinions on the candidates’ performances. That shows me there is hope, that people are interested. All of you who put up statuses that told me to keep my politics to myself can get lost. We need discussion. 
That’s how we will begin to make a difference. 
Next time you read about something you think ought to be recognized and changed, I want to hear about it. My friend at Northwestern University wants to hear about it. The Herald wants to hear about it. Chances are, people you never would expect to care want to hear about it. 
In the end, it’s simple. Whether or not we solve the issues of our time will be the ultimate reflection of whether or not we can learn to work together — you, me, our congressmen, our professors, the deans, our new president — we is all of us. 
This column originally ran in the Feb. 12 edition of Brown Daily Herald, serving Brown University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
PEMCO PRODUCTION SUCCEEDS 
By MADELINE DALY 
Scene Writer 

As I entered the auditorium in Washington Hall on Tuesday night, I walked into a flurry of 1960s business men and women, clad in black tie suits and tweed shift dresses, heels clicking across the stage, hair perfectly slicked and teased. The dress rehears al for Pasquerilla East Music Company’s (PEMCo) spring musical “How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying” had begun, and I was lucky enough to be one of the few outside spectators. 
SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 
Excitement surrounded the stage as anxious actors tested their microphones and prac­ticed their lines, stepping eas­ily into their classic roles. From the first five minutes I could tell I would enjoy the show, espe­cially because of the parallels to one of my favorite TV series “Mad Men.” Both shows are full of scandalous relationships be­tween ad men and their secre­taries, dark-rimmed glasses, New York accents, tight pencil skirts and an overall tone of the Kennedy era in the 1960s that I wish I had lived through. 
Senior Erin Marks — who plays Miss Jones, the secretary of head honcho Mr. Biggley 
— continued the “Mad Men” metaphor when describing the show. 
“Basically, it’s as if ‘Mad Men’ were a musical, but with goof­ier characters,” Marks said. “There are lots of great laughs, peppy, brassy music and plenty of dancing.  If only we could all sing and dance at the end of a board meeting in real life!” 
The musical itself is a com­edy revolving around the em­ployees of a large New York company, highlighting the stereotypical line between the secretaries and the busi­ness men present in the 60s. Between the women singing with sap over a secretary con­sidering marriage during the song “Cinderella, Darling” to the men linking elbows while singing “Brotherhood of Men” (my favorite number, by the way, including flips and danc­ing on tables), the two oppos­ing sexes are like separate entities in the same office. 
The plot stems from the character J. Pierrepont Finch and tells his rags-to-riches story through the reading of a book called “How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying.”  As Finch sat at his desk reading the book, the voice of Mike Collins, the Notre Dame football announcer, resonated through the auditorium. The Broadway musical has featured voiceovers from Anderson Cooper and Walter Cronkite, so Collins fits perfectly into the role with his strong, easily-recognizable voice. Mirroring once again the characters in “Mad Men” like Don Draper, Finch not only uses the book to succeed but also uses his clev­er, scheming mind to climb to the top, taking his peers down by whatever means necessary. 
Because of their greed and competitive nature, the other men hold a grudge against Finch and work together to “Stop That Man,” as the song in Act II describes. The show is full of tension in and out of the office surrounding work promotions and marriage proposals. I had trouble peel­ing my eyes off the stage amid the flashy dances and era-ap­propriate costumes. 

Although focused on the small details and imperfec­tions, the dress rehearsal I watched was just as enjoyable as the final show will be be­cause of the actors’ enthusi­asm and talent.  Even on their third or fourth run-through of a song, the actors hit every note and nailed each dance move, displaying their immense tal­ent and clear passion for the stage. The red-lipped smiles of the actresses opened into ringing chords and the actors harmonized perfectly, causing goosebumps at the end of each big number.  Also, although faceless to the audience, the orchestra and stagehands beautifully complemented the talent on stage. Between the melodies of music coming from behind the stage to the swift movements of intricate props in between scenes, ev­eryone’s combined work made for an amazing show. 
Performances run Thursday through Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office, $6 for students and $8 for general admission. 
Contact Madeline Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 

BRANDON KEELAN | The Observer 

THE OBSERVER |THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Even on their third or fourth run-through of a song, the actors hit every note and nailed each dance move, displaying their immense talent and clear passion for the stage. The red-lipped smiles of the actresses opened into ringing chords and the actors harmonized perfectly, causing goosebumps at the end of each big number. 

“There are lots of great laughs, peppy, brassy music and plenty of dancing. If only we could all sing and dance at the end of a board meeting in real life!” 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Patrick could make history 

Brian Hartnett 
Sports Writer 
The Super Bowl might be the most viewed sporting event of this month (and this year, for that matter), but it is by no means the most-widely attended. That honor goes to the Daytona 500, the so-called “Super Bowl of NASCAR,” which, on average, draws ap­proximately 250,000 specta­tors each year. 
This year’s edition of “The Great American Race” is scheduled for this Sunday, and it’s safe to say hordes of motor homes will once again descend upon Daytona Beach, Fla., for the event. 
But this year’s race will look a little different to NASCAR diehards. They will witness history even before the speed­ing pack of 43 cars has the chance to complete one lap around the famed two-and-a­half mile oval. 
For the first time, when the green flag drops at Daytona, a woman will be leading the race. This woman, of course, is Danica Patrick, perhaps the sport’s best-known driver despite the fact that she is a Sprint Cup rookie. 
Patrick made history Saturday when she became the first woman to win the Daytona 500 pole (or any Sprint Cup race pole) with a lap of 196.434 miles per hour. Although winning the pole may be seen as the equivalent of having a good practice, it was a truly unique accom­plishment that could really mark the beginning of a posi­tive shift for the sport. 
It’s no secret that auto rac­ing is one of the more divisive sports or activities or what­ever you prefer to call it. While NASCAR has a devoted legion of fans, many others see it as the butt of jokes, or a boring waste of time. 
They’re not entirely wrong in that regard. 500-mile races are not a made-for-TV event, save the final 10 or 20 miles. Like many other sports, NASCAR has become so cor­porate that most races feel like advertisements for home improvement or construction companies. It also doesn’t help that, until recently, Jimmie Johnson single-hand­edly dominated the sport, winning five consecutive Cup series championships between 2006 and 2010. Heck, NASCAR’s most marketable individual is Dale Earnhardt Jr., who has won a grand total of one race over the last four years. 
These recent struggles high­light exactly why Patrick’s accomplishment is so im­portant. She has a great op­portunity to infuse life into NASCAR and attract a whole new fan base to racetracks across the country. 

Admittedly, Patrick isn’t the most likeable driver, project­ing little of the down-home charm associated with several racing legends. She has feuded with several drivers during her time in the IndyCar and Nationwide Series. Some have criticized the inordinate amount of media attention showered on her, despite the fact that she has only won one race in her professional career. 
Despite all this, she is incredibly attractive to ad­vertisers and the casual fan because of, well, her good looks. Patrick has appeared in commercials for ESPN, Honda and most notably, GoDaddy. com. She has been able to brand herself as a true rarity, an attractive young female in one of the most testosterone-driven sports. 
And her unique brand is what NASCAR needs now. She can attract the casual male observer. She can also attract female fans, whether it is young girls looking to follow her into racing or older women rooting for her to break down the “old boys’” culture preva­lent in the sport. 
Ultimately, however, Patrick must produce results on the Sprint Cup circuit or risk be­ing viewed as a permanent sideshow. She will always garner increased interest, but there’s only so much fans can hear about her relation­ship with fellow driver Ricky Stenhouse Jr. or her finish at the back of the pack or her quibbles with other drivers before they tune her out. 
Thus, Patrick will have to continue her strong start in her new racing home. While it’s unlikely she’ll ever win a Cup series championship, the evidence that she can succeed is there, as she has finished in the top 10 of both the IndyCar and Nationwide series. 
It is encouraging to see Patrick already accomplishing much in her first full season on the top circuit. Similarly, it will be nice to see her make history Sunday when the green flag waves. 
But the question that will ultimately determine her suc­cess is whether she can make history when the checkered flag waves. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NBA 

New CBA looms over NBA trade discussions 
Associated Press 

The new collective bar­gaining agreement that was born out of last year’s lockout will impose much stiffer penalties for teams that exceed the salary cap. Teams started bracing for it ever since play resumed on Christmas Day in 2011, and the reckoning is just around the corner. Owners are keep­ing one eye on the court and the other on their wallets. 
“Every team is watching what it can do and how it can improve its team in connec­tion with the much higher luxury tax,” Commissioner David Stern said just before the All-Star break. 
Under the previous agree­ment, if a team exceeded the luxury tax level by $4 mil­lion, it paid an additional $4 million in tax penalties. If it went over by $14 mil­lion, it paid $14 million in penalties. 
Next season, because of various increases in penal­ties, that $4 million will cost a team $6 million. And the team that goes over by $14 million will be hit with a $26.25 million bill. 
To make matters worse, any team that exceeds the cap “apron” — which is $4 million over the existing luxury tax level — is not al­lowed to bring in a player in a sign-and-trade deal. That team also will only be able to offer a three-year mid-level exception deal to a free agent rather than the four-year exception that teams under the apron can offer, putting them at a bargaining disadvantage on the open market. 
And to top it all off, any team that has exceeded the cap in three of the previ­ous four seasons starting in 2014-15 will be subject to “repeater rates,” which in­crease the penalties even further. 
“Any well-managed team 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confi­dential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. 
For more information, visit ND’s web­site at: http://pregnancysupport@ nd.edu 


is going to think about the future consequences of their roster management,” Stern said. 
Many already have been, in markets big and small. The Oklahoma City Thunder traded star guard James Harden to Houston rather than make him the third max-money player on the team and the Memphis Grizzlies dumped lead­ing scorer Rudy Gay and valuable reserve Marreese Speights in separate deals earlier this season to start getting their financial house in order. 
New Grizzlies owner Robert Pera disputed the notion that sending Gay to Toronto was a salary dump, but also pointed out that teams have to spend their money wisely. 
“Whether I’m worth a bil­lion dollars or 10 billion dol­lars, I don’t think throwing money is the way to get a best result,” he said. “You look at the Lakers. They threw to­gether all these stars and a huge payroll, and it’s not working out so far. You can’t be cheap, and I don’t think we are cheap.” 
Before fans in small mar­kets start complaining that the game is still rigged against them, don’t for­get that Dallas let Tyson Chandler, the lynchpin of their title team from 2010­11, leave to team up with Carmelo Anthony and Amare Stoudemire in New York. Chicago did not match Houston’s offer for up-and­

“Whether I’m worth a billion dollars or 
10 billion dollars, 
I don’t think 
throwing money 
is the way to get a 
best result.” 
Robert Pena 
Grizzlies owner 
coming center Omer Asik and the Knicks let Jeremy Lin leave for Houston. 
Next season, LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh are scheduled to earn about $62 million, an enormous percentage of a luxury tax level that fig­ures to be in the $72 million range. 
“I just don’t see how teams are going to be able to af­ford to do that anymore,” one league executive said. “Not only are there financial penalties to think about, but operational penalties as well that will make it very difficult.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
The graduate with a Science degree Bing Crosby- Snow Lyrics 
asks, “Why does it work? 
It won’t be long before we’ll all be 

there with snow ”The graduate with an Engineering Snow I want to wash my hands, degree asks, “How does it work?” my face and hair with snow 
Snow I long to clear a path and lift 

a spade of snow snow The graduate with an Accounting Oh, to see a great big man entirely degree asks, “How much will it cost?” made of snow 
Where it’s snowing all winter The graduate with an Arts degree through that’s where I want to be asks, “Do you want fries with that?” snowball throwing 


FENCING 

Coccia finds parallels between his two teams 

MACKENZIE SAIN | The Observer 

Junior student body president-elect and Irish sabreur Alex Coccia speaks during the student government debate Feb. 4 in the LaFortune Student Center. Coccia compiled a 52-25 
record in his freshman and sophomore seasons. Coccia was elected student body president last week and will take over April 1. 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Junior sabreur Alex Coccia has had a busy career at Notre Dame, and he credits his first two colle­giate seasons with helping make him the fencer and student he is today. 
Coccia posted a 20-7 record and earned a monogram dur­ing his freshman campaign as the Irish rolled to the national championship. He then com­piled a 32-18 mark in his sopho­more season. 
Coccia said his experiences during his first two seasons, es­pecially his freshman year, have helped shape his entire colle­giate career. 
“That [national champion­ship] team as a whole had such a unit of cohesion and people who were not only willing to seriously drive themselves but also drive everyone else and challenge people and push people to over­come any challenges there were or any mental blocks,” Coccia said. “I think within fencing es­pecially, it requires a lot of plan­ning ahead.” 
Coccia, who was recently elected student body president, will implement various skills acquired from fencing in order to manage his new life as both a member of the fencing team and a key part of student govern­ment. Coccia related the time management of fencing practic­es and competitions to the abili­ty to manage his tasks as student body president. 
“Everything is about relation­ships and being able to navigate these relationships and hold them together, in both fenc­ing and student government,” Coccia said. “In terms of time and managing time, within practices you want to be struc­tured but at the same time have fun and be competitive and en­joy yourself. 
“This is the same way cabi­net meetings and structural meetings should be set up, where we have fun and at the same time bounce ideas off of each other and have a sense of accountability.” 
Coccia said he can apply his desire to improve personally in order to contribute to the greater good as a lesson for many facets of his life.
 “I think one of the really unique things to fencing, es­pecially collegiate fencing, in­cludes such individual drive and passion, but obviously in college you are competing for a team,” Coccia said. 
The Irish will next compete at the Notre Dame Duals on Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 

Irish junior sabreur Alex Coccia, pictured here during his freshman season, competes during the Conference Championships at Notre Dame on March 5, 2011. 

Bouts 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 15 
with a wild right hook, which forced Hartnett to relentlessly use a left hook. After another se­ries of shots to the head and body, Hartnett ultimately won the fight by a split decision. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Ryan “Dirty” Alberdi def Taylor “The All-Nighter Fighter” Stein 
Senior Ryan Alberdi started off strong with hard uppercuts to the body and long hooks to the head of senior Taylor Stein. 
The first round ended and Stein, who was on the defensive, was not able to land many punches on Alberdi. 
Alberdi continued more aggres­sively in the second round, forcing Stein into a corner and the ref had to stop the match. 
Alberdi’s punches prove to be too much for Stein, as he won by referee-stopped contest in the second round. 
Andrew “50 Shades of” Greybar def Mitchell Johnson 
MBA student Mitchell Johnson and fifth-year architecture student Andrew Greybar began by trading solid blows in this even slugfest. 
The first advancement of the match came in the second round when Greybar backed Mitchell into a corner with some hard jabs landing squarely to the head. 
Both boxers tired and threw slower punches in the third round. 
Greybar landed a few punches to close the bout and earned the split decision victory. 
Bobby “Softie” Manfreda def Andy Baumann 
Senior Bobby Manfreda took an early lead on graduate stu­dent Andy Baumann in the end of the first round when he backed Baumann into the corner of the ring. Manfreda found a rhythm in a series of strong one-two body-head punches as Baumann cov­ered his face for protection. 
The boxers continued to trade punches in the end of the third round, but Manfreda sealed his unanimous decision victory af­ter landing a hard punch that knocked Baumann off balance. 
Ricky “Scooter” Neville def Sergi Filonow 
Both boxers bounced from their corners with energy as MBA student Sergi Filonow served long punches to the face of junior Ricky Neville, who countered with low punches to the body. 
At the beginning of the second round they traded a flur­ry of punches, but Neville was backed into the ropes. He quickly recovered and found his balance, which allowed him to land a series of body shots on Filonow. Neville landed a hard punch to Filonow’s face as the bell rung, sealing Neville’s unanimous decision victory. 

Brian “Long Arms of the Law” Ellixson def Erik “The Rhino” Rayno 
Law student Brian Ellixson’s in­timidating haymaker hooks dom­inated and controlled the match, while freshman Erik Rayno exem­plified discipline as he attempted to counter Ellixson throughout the entirety of the match. 
But Ellixson’s powerful ad­vancements proved to be too much, as the referee stepped in at the end of the third round, ending the match. Ellixson won by refer-ee-stopped contest. 
Chris “Stubbs” Sarkis  def Robby “I Swear I’m Not A” Toole 
Both boxers traded a flurry of punches in the first round. Senior Chris Sarkis dominated with large hooks, but senior Robby Toole momentarily took control, knock­ing Sarkis into the corner of the ring. 
But then Toole missed a punch and knocked himself off balance. Sarkis remained patient at the end 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


of the second round and delivered a series of meticulous jabs to the head of Toole. 
Although both boxers began to tire at the end, Sarkis’ control in earlier rounds earned him a unanimous decision victory. 
Daniel Yi def Ruben “The Macho Man” Carrion 
Junior Daniel Yi danced around the ring, light on his feet, while ju­nior Ruben Carrion attempted to land hard punches. 
Within minutes of the first round Yi used his mobility to his advantage as he avoided many of the punches from Carrion and countered with strikes of his own. 
Carrion landed some punches in the third round, yet it was not enough to slow Yi’s feet. Yi’s ath­leticism proved to be the deciding factor, as he won by unanimous decision. 
Mike Broghammer def Matt “Here Comes the” Boomer 
Senior Mike Broghammer quickly advanced, knocking freshman Matt Boomer into the ropes. 
Broghammer served quick one-two punches to establish his dominance. Boomer attempted to get in a few punches, but his ad­vancements were countered with solid jabs from Broghammer. A height advantage and longer reach proved to be the advantage for Broghammer, as he won the match at the end of the second round by referee-stopped contest. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 



Bouts 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
dodges. Lucisano then opened the third round with a powerful headshot and finished the match with a series of combinations that sent Taulman reeling. Lucisano won by unanimous decision. 
Kevin “Git ‘Er” Dunne def. John “Juan Malo” Iwanski 
In a battle of off-campus resi­dents, senior Kevin Dunne de­feated law student John Iwanski in a split decision. The first round was largely a defensive struggle, as both boxers threw plenty of punches but most failed to meet their mark. In the second round, Iwanski landed a few headshots on Dunne, but Dunne expert­ly fought back to knock down Iwanski. After the knockdown, Dunne’s confidence soared and he attempted to go on the end of the first round and to begin the second. McGinley deflected many of Coppa’s blows and deliv­ered a flurry of headshots as the round expired. McGinley opened up the final round with more blows to Coppa’s head and Coppa was never able to recover. 



Kevin “So Krispee” Kershisnik def. Ian “The Wright Stuff” Cronin 
Knott junior Ian Cronin opened the bout in control, establishing himself with a series of jabs that sent off-campus senior Kevin Kershisnik to the ropes. After a rough first round, Kershisnik re­sponded in the second as he came out firing and almost knocked Cronin to the ground. Cronin tried to retaliate with shots of his own, but Kershisnik dodged most of Cronin’s advances. In the final round, Cronin started on the offensive, landing several headshots on Kershisnik. This caused a momentary pause in the fight as Kershisnik had to at­tend to his bloody nose. After the round resumed, Cronin forced Kershisnik to the ropes before Kershisnik fought back with mul­tiple headshots, punching Cronin so hard his headgear nearly came off. After this display in the final round, Kershisnik was awarded the split decision victory. 
Joey “Kangaroo” Kim def. Brendan “Mr. Balloonhands” Andrew 
Off-campus senior Joey Kim used his significant height and reach advantage to earn a unani­mous decision over off-campus MBA student Brendan Andrew. Kim opened up the fight by land­ing many big shots to Andrew’s head and body. He was able to safely throw big looping hooks and uppercuts without the fear of leaving his body exposed be­cause of his reach advantage. In the second round, Andrew took to the offensive and had Kim on the ropes, using his jab to land several headshots. Kim escaped Andrew and then threw huge blows, connecting on a few of them and giving Andrew a bloody nose. Kim’s reach advantage gave him the edge in the final round, as Kim eventually knocked down Andrew and took home the unan­imous decision. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports Writer 
Mike “El Flan” Flanigan def. John “Jeams” Heinrichs 
In a back-and-forth battle, sophomore Mike Flanigan pulled out the victory by split deci­sion over graduate student John Heinrichs. Flanigan maneuvered his way through the first round with a series of rotating left and right hooks. Heinrichs opened the second round with a power­ful body shot, knocking Flanigan off guard. The opponents main­tained a fast-paced fight with combinations of body shots to one another. Ultimately, Flanigan claimed the victory after his left and right hooks in the third round 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
took a toll on Heinrichs. 
Chris “The Crank” DeLillo def. Brian “Rowdy” Roddy 
Senior Chris DeLillo immedi­ately took charge of the matchup and defeated sophomore Brian Roddy by unanimous decision. DeLillo attacked Roddy with a series of violent, aggressive head shots to open the fight. Roddy fought back with a solid left hook, but DeLillo didn’t back down. DeLillo opened the second round with powerful punches to Roddy’s head, driving him into the rope. Roddy rebounded with a series of body shots, but DeLillo laid punches right back to Roddy’s head. Both fighters battled back and forth in the third round with several exchanges of shots to the head, but DeLillo claimed the victory. 
Patrick Shea def. Brian “HR Puff N Stuff” Garvin 
The fight opened rapidly with freshmen Brian Garvin and Patrick Shea laying out a sequence of head shots. In the second round, Shea continued to deliver aggressive punches to the head, destabilizing Garvin, who found himself pushed into the ropes. The third round quickly came to an end as Shea’s blows to Garvin’s head forced the referee to call the match. Shea won by referee-
stopped contest.  
Zach “Bedrock” def. James “Hulk Hodgens  Flint Hogan”  

In a fast-paced fight, freshman Zach Flint never ceased delivering his forceful body shots and paved his way to a unanimous decision victory. Flint maneuvered junior James Hodgens around the ring with his agile footwork and pow­erful blows to the body. In the sec­ond round, Flint applied a series of head shots, and Hodgens found himself in a trap he could not es­cape. By the third round, Hodgens found himself trailing, and Flint sealed the deal with a strong left hook to take the victory. 
Alex “El Gatito Loco” Oloriz def. Patrick “The Cory” McFarlane 
Within fewer than two minutes of the first round, the referee had to put an end to the fight. Senior Alex Oloriz moved junior Patrick McFarlane around the ring with a flurry of body shots. McFarlane offensive. With the outcome still very much up in the air, both box­ers went all out in the final round in an effort to win over the judges. Taulman opened the round with a flurry of punches, but Dunne fought back again with a series of well-timed combinations and ducks. By the end of the round, both fighters were exhausted, but Dunne had done enough to earn the split-decision victory. 
Pete “The Wild Irish Rose” McGinley def. Scott Coppa 
Duncan sophomore Pete McGinley defeated Stanford soph­omore Scott Coppa by a unani­mous decision. The first round provided the most excitement, as each boxer came out swing­ing. McGinley cornered Coppa early in the round and delivered an array of head and body shots. Coppa fought back and pushed McGinley to the ropes near the attempted to fight back with jabs to the head, but it was not enough to overcome Oloriz, as he took the victory by referee-stopped contest. 

Joey “No Game” Stromberg def. Joey DiBenedetto 
The matchup proved an even, competitive fight throughout all three rounds, but law student Joey Stromberg ultimately prevailed and took the victory by split de­cision. Stromberg fought the first round with a series of body shot combinations, which senior Joey DiBenedetto aggressively fought off with shots to the head. The op­ponents fought evenly in the sec­ond round and fought one another with a mix of jabs to the body and head. In the third round, the pace of the fight picked up. With swift movement paired with violent body blows, Stromberg edged out DiBenedetto for the split decision victory. 
Pat “The Hitman” Bishop def. Andrew Heldrich 
The fight opened as a tight, back-and-forth battle, but senior Pat Bishop soon took charge of the fight and paved his way to a unanimous victory. Bishop main­tained an even exchange of body and head shots against his op­ponent junior Andrew Heldrich in the first round. With the start of the second round, Bishop in­troduced Heldrich to his left and right hooks. There was no turning back after that. Bishop never re­linquished in the third round, and he put Heldrich on the defense with his combination punches to Heldrich’s head. 
Brian “the Weatherman” Hartnett def. Lucas “John” Sullivan 
Sophomore Lucas Sullivan opened the fight with a series of head shots, but sophomore Brian Hartnett eventually turned the fight around. In the first round, the opponents immediately be­gan a quick-paced fight packed with sequences of head shots and body jabs. In the second round, Hartnett found himself fall­ing into the rope, but he quickly bounced back with a right hook, removing himself from Sullivan’s furious head shots. The fight reached its peak of intensity in the third round. Sullivan attacked 
see BOUTS PAGE 14 THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 





Bouts 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 17 
opening himself up to even more body shots while only landing a few of his own. Cooley won by unanimous decision. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
Sports Writer 
Brian “Smiles” Salvi def. Hank “Team Pup ‘N Suds” Duden 
Junior Hank Duden and law student Brian Salvi moved quickly and efficiently around the ring. Despite good dodging and blocking, each boxer landed several one-two combinations in the first round. 
Duden used deceptive feints in the second round to get in an extended series of head shots, but Salvi responded with his own one-two combinations and a powerful right hook. 
Both boxers landed big, head-turning hits in the third round. In the end, Salvi took the fight by split decision. 
Tyler Plantz def. Moises Martinez 
Junior Tyler Plantz started the first round at a blistering pace, hitting junior Moises Martinez with a flurry of punches that put Martinez on the defensive. 
Plantz pushed Martinez into the corner, and Martinez fought back, landing a sweeping right hook, but it was not enough. 
Plantz won the bout by refer-ee-stopped contest in the first round. 
Eamon “Gravy” McOsker def. Matthew Enzweiler 
Freshman Eamon McOsker and senior Matthew Enzweiler came out swinging in the first round. McOsker managed to knock Enzweiler to the mat twice after Enzweiler nearly took him down. 
Enzweiler opened the second round with a powerful straight right early to redeem himself. The boxers traded one-two com­binations throughout the sec­ond stanza until McOsker sent Enzweiler into another standing eight-count with a right hook. 
Enzweiler was more aggressive in the third round. He landed a series of punches while dodging and blocking McOsker well. 
McOsker held on for the win by split decision. 
Evan “Heavy Duty” Escobedo def. Leo “A Diversion” DiPiero 
Sophomore Evan Escobedo knocked senior Leo DiPiero off balance in the first round to re­quire a standing eight-count, but DiPiero responded with a strong right. 
Escobedo knocked DiPiero down with a one-two combina­tion and frequent hooks in the second round. He sent DiPiero to another standing eight-count moments later with a hook and knocked him down a second time after the fight resumed. 
The fight was stopped in the second round, and Escobedo won by referee-stopped contest. 
Brian “Caesar” Salat def. Robbie Hammer 
Junior Robbie Hammer and senior Brian Salat displayed measured attacks in the first round. Both stayed disciplined and traded crisp punches. 

They kept up their technical boxing in the second round with Salat mixing in uppercuts and putting Hammer into a standing eight-count. 
In the third round, both box­ers maintained good form and threw solid punches. Hammer dropped his hands several times, which allowed Salat to land a few uppercuts and well-timed one-two combinations. 
Salat won by unanimous decision. 
Bob Burkett def. Rob “The Bank” McKenna 
Senior Bob Burkett knocked junior Rob McKenna through the ropes in the first round. McKenna responded with a knockdown of Burkett. 
Both boxers used the clinch to regain composure and the refer­ee had to break them up several times. 
In the second round, McKenna went for body shots to protect himself from Burkett’s punches. The strategy proved successful. In the third round, Burkett re­taliated and landed several head shots. 
Burkett won the bout by split decision. 
Sean “Too Tall” Lischke def. Thomas Moore 
Graduate student Sean Lischke used his long reach to keep law student Thomas Moore at bay. He threw straight, clean jabs and right hooks. 
Moore struggled to land a punch in the first round. 
In the second round, Moore waited for Lischke to let his guard down and landed a couple calculated jabs. 
Lischke’s disciplined strategy allowed him to maintain energy through the whole fight, and he dominated the third round on his way to a victory by unani­mous decision. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
By ALEX WILCOX 
Sports Writer 
Nick “Patio” Rowek def. Chris Tricarico 
It took off-campus senior Nick Rowek until the third and final round to break out, winning a split decision over Stanford sophomore Chris Tricarico in true come-from-behind fash­ion. Tricarico came out firing in the first round, frequently push­ing Rowek to the ropes and even knocking him down once. In the second round, Tricarico tried the same strategy, but this time Rowek answered and knocked down Tricarico himself. In the third and most exciting round of the fight, both boxers threw a flurry of punches, with Rowek utilizing the jab while Tricarico went for the big knockout blow. In the closing seconds, Rowek displayed an impressive array of combinations, winning him the match by split decision. 
Colt “Pony Boy” Collins def. Mike “The Shoog” Falvey 
Law student Colt Collins con­tinued his dominating Bengal Bouts run with another unani­mous decision victory, this time over Zahm junior Mike Falvey. 
Collins opened the fight on the attack, immediately knocking Falvey to the ground. Falvey tried to respond but had trouble land­ing punches despite his height and reach advantage. Collins finished off the round by knock­ing Falvey down again. Falvey defended himself better in the second round and was able to land some shots on Collins, even knocking Collins down early in the second round. Collins opened up the third round by forcing Falvey to the ropes. Falvey — visibly tired, but refus­ing to quit — valiantly fought back, but could not overcome the skill of Collins, who took the win by unanimous decision. 
Tony “Lucky” Lucisano def. Jason “Maximus” Taulman 
In this evenly matched bout, off-campus senior Tony Lucisano’s defensive strategy earned him a unanimous de­cision win over O’Neill senior Jason Taulman. Both boxers landed several punches to open the fight, and Taulman displayed an impressive series of combina­tions in an even first round. In the second round, Taulman had Lucisano pinned on the ropes, but Lucisano defended himself well using a series of ducks and 
see BOUTS PAGE 15 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Bouts 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 
round and Buckley was able to land fierce hooks on the younger fighter when he pinned him on the ropes. In the end, Hipskind’s early lead ensured him the unanimous decision victory. 
Garrity “The Biscuit” McOsker def. Michael “Last Name” Judd 
In a bout between sopho­mores, Garrity McOsker did battle with Michael Judd. While both fighters started on the de­fensive, McOsker was able to get inside Judd’s jab to land several combos to the body. Judd opened the second round more aggres­sively and pinned McOsker against the ropes on several oc­casions. It was McOsker, how­ever, who controlled the third round. He immediately pounced on Judd, knocking him off balance. McOsker then followed up with a ruthless combination that left his opponent stunned. McOsker’s strong combinations helped him claim a unanimous decision. 
Jack Healy def. “D” Joel “Unchained” Hlavaty 
Senior Jack Healy and junior Joel Hlavaty fought a bruising battle that went down to the wire. Healy employed a hit-and­run strategy in the first round, using his fast jabs to strike Hlavaty and then dart out of the way before the larger fighter could respond. Hlavaty adjusted in the second round, cornering Healy and delivering hooks and uppercuts to his head. The re­sult was a momentum-shifting second round as Healy unable to respond while being constantly knocked off balance or on the retreat. He corrected this in the third round, standing face to face 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

with Hlavaty and landing au­thoritative punches of his own. Healy dictated the third round with a hook and straight combo and his perseverance led him to a unanimous decision victory. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
By GREG HADLEY 
Sports Writer 
Danny “Natty” Leicht def. Ryan “Slopcat” Majsak 
After a slow first round, se­nior Danny Leicht stayed low and continued to attack sopho­more Ryan Majsak’s head. Leicht found more success with this strategy than in the first round when he only connected on a few punches. Leicht, despite being the smaller fighter, was far more aggressive early on. Majsak tried to come out more forcefully in the third round but only opened himself up to even bigger hits from Leicht while failing to con­nect on his own punches. Leicht won by unanimous decision. 
Scott “Bootstrap” Rousseau def. Andrew “Bedlam” Bedward 
Sophomore Scott Rousseau and MBA student Andrew Bedward spent the first round darting around the ring in a se­ries of quick exchanges that gave neither an advantage. The sec­ond round featured more of the same, but Rousseau was able to gain a slight edge with a few big blows to Bedward’s head near the end of the round. Rousseau took a few punches to the head but landed some of his own on Bedward in the final round. The third-round effort was enough to give Rousseau the win by split decision. 
Jeff “Little Bear” Ulrich def. Stephen “Release the Kraken” Despins 
Senior Jeff Ulrich started the fight low and agile, dancing away from senior Stephen Despins until he broke out near the end of the round with a series of com­binations to Despins’s head and body. Despins started to land some body shots in the second and third rounds but failed to defend himself from Ulrich’s strong right. When Despins ad­vanced, Ulrich used the oppor­tunity to land several hard shots to Despins’s head. Ulrich won by unanimous decision. 
Gage “Chia Pet” O’Connell def. Mikey “Fracis” Lamb 
Law student Gage O’Connell and junior Mikey Lamb started the bout aggressively with each working the body and push­ing his opponent around the ring early in the first round. However, midway through the round, O’Connell landed a sin­gle massive right hook to the head that knocked Lamb down. After Lamb remained on the ground for a few moments, the referee stopped the fight, giving O’Connell the victory on a tech­nical knockout. 
Sunoh Choe “No Mercy” def. Eric Krakowiak 
While both fighters came out swinging, senior Sunoh Choe was able to avoid most of sopho­more Eric Krakowiak’s biggest swings and land almost all of his own, especially to the head. After a particularly effective combi­nation midway through the first round, Krakowiak staggered back against the ropes with his headgear damaged. Although the equipment was fixed, the referee stopped the contest and awarded the victory to Choe af­ter just 43 seconds. 

Brett “Doughboy Freshke” Geschke def. Trevor “Stonewall” Stevens 
The first round between law students Brett Geschke and Trevor Stevens was a slugfest, with both boxers fighting in close quarters and attacking the oth­er’s body. Geschke landed sever­al big hits to Stevens’ head in the second round, but Stevens was able to connect on his punches, continually working the body. In the third round, Geschke was able to stay strong, repeatedly hitting Stevens’ head and giv­ing him a bloody nose twice. Ultimately, Geschke gained the edge, winning in a split decision. 
Brett “Italian Ice” Sassetti def. Charles “Hammer” Magiera 
Junior Brett Sassetti started off the fight staying low to the ground and working in hard combinations to both the head and body of sophomore Charles Magiera. On several occasions, Magiera attempted to push Sassetti against the ropes, but Sassetti was able to stay in the center of the ring. As the fight progressed, Sassetti stayed ag­gressive, pushing Magiera against the ropes and landing almost all his punches, including several hard shots to the head. Sassetti ended up with the vic­tory by unanimous decision. 
Bryan “Cowabunga” Cooley def. Eric “P-Rrex” Palutsis 
In the first round between sophomores Brian Cooley and Eric Palutsis, Cooley managed to connect on only a few punches, but Palutsis delivered even fewer. Palutsis came out more aggres­sive in the second round but fell victim to Cooley’s longer reach, which resulted in several hard body shots. Attempting to rally in the final round, Palutsis went after Cooley hard but ended up 
see BOUTS PAGE 16 PAID ADVERTISEMENT THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 




one particular element, but I like to hustle and try to get the loose balls and be that type of player,” Cable said. 
Cable leads the Irish in one cat­egory: 3-point shooting percent­age, where she is shooting at a 41.2 percent clip. The sharpshooter said her success from beyond the arc is simply a result of practice. 
“I like to get in the gym in our off days and shoot with some of our other players,” Cable said. “I just focus on the shot and think about all the little things I learned when I was young that have con­tributed to my shot.” 
Cable has made all these con­tributions while battling a nag­ging ankle sprain, which caused her to miss Notre Dame’s match-up with Cincinnati earlier this month. 
“Everyone always has nagging injuries that carry on, but I’m pretty much 100 percent,” she said. “Everyone on our team is tough and fights through the in­juries every team has to deal with, so it’s just a basketball thing.” 
McGraw said Cable’s toughness has not gone unnoticed, and her play has been much appreciated. 
“She’s played a huge role for us this year, and I would say that it’s been a pleasant surprise because, coming off an injury and even dealing with the injury this year, we didn’t know how effective she 
would be,” McGraw said. “She’s  said. “We’ve had our success so  
gone through a lot to be out here.”  far, but hopefully it leads to great- 
Cable said she enjoyed contrib­ er success.”  
uting to Notre Dame’s blistering  With Cable finally a known  
24-1 start, but believes there is  commodity, the Irish will look to  
much more success to come for  achieve just that.  
her and her team.  
“I don’t think there’s been a  Contact Brian Hartnett at  
best part of the season so far,” she  bhartnet@nd.edu  

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Cable 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 
“I’m happy to play any role for my team that will help us win, so, whatever it is I have to do, I’ll do it,” Cable said. 
In her time on the court, Cable has provided the Irish with ver­satility, spending time at various 
Kavanagh 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 
school that I didn’t do in high school,” Kavanagh said. “For ex­ample I was more of a crease guy in high school, but at prep school I developed a dodging game and a shooting game so I think that helped out a lot.” 
Inside Lacrosse ranked Kavanagh as the top postgradu­ate recruit in the nation in the class of 2012. After signing with Notre Dame, Kavanagh spent July leading Team USA to a gold medal in the Federation of International Lacrosse Under-19 World Championships. Kavanagh netted two goals and tallied two assists in Team USA’s championship victory over Canada. The attack totaled 20 goals and 11 assists in the seven tournament tilts and was named tournament MVP and the most outstanding attack. 
Kavanagh carried that mo­mentum into the preseason, hoping he would get a chance to crack an Irish lineup that re­turned eight starters from the 2012 team that lost in the Final Four to eventual national cham­pion Loyola (Md.). 
“Coming in I didn’t have the attitude of just expecting to play, obviously you have to earn it,” Kavanagh said. “The whole fall getting new to the system, obvi­ously I was new, and I got a lot of help from the older guys, so it was easy to transition.” 
Kavanagh was one of just two underclassmen to get the start­ing nod against Duke. The Irish started four juniors and four se­niors, while eight more upper­classmen saw time coming off the bench. 
spots along the wing. She’s av­eraging 5.0 points per game and 
3.8 rebounds per contest in 22 appearances. 
Cable’s defense and all-around scrappy play, however, have been her biggest assets all season, al­lowing her to provide the Irish with instant energy off the bench. 
“I don’t think I’m really good at 
On a team rife with juniors and seniors, Kavanagh wasn’t check­ing his name off in the starting lineup. Instead, he used their ex­perience to better himself. 
“Coming in I was told if I worked hard hopefully I could help out as soon as I can,” Kavanagh said. “But like I said, [with] the help of the older guys, it was easier for me to step right in.” 
Kavanagh has stepped right into a starring role, unlike any­thing fellow attack Rogers has seen before from a freshman. Rogers, who has played on four NCAA tournament teams, including a pair of Final Four squads, said he hasn’t seen an­other freshman come in and make an immediate impact like Kavanagh has. 

“There hasn’t been one,” Rogers said. “Maybe [senior goal­ie] John Kemp. John wasn’t start­ing but as the backup he took the scrimmages to another level. [Junior attack] Westy Hopkins also did a great job his freshman year stepping in and making a contribution. 
“But no one like Kav.” 

Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | LENNY RAGO &              PATRICK CROSS 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Trevor Bayne, 22; Benicio Del Toro, 46; Jeff Dan­iels, 58; Smokey Robinson, 73 
Happy Birthday: Emotional issues will surface. Don’t let anything derail your plans. Focus on what you want and don’t take detours. Love is apparent, and adjustments at home must be made. The aim is to stabilize your position, direction and your lifestyle in order to reach your goals. Your numbers are 6, 13, 21, 27, 32, 45, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don’t share personal secrets. Offer an alternative if someone doesn’t like the way your work turns out. Being adaptable and versatile will help you find a way to please everyone without going over budget. Romance is highlighted. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don’t rely on someone making impossible promises. A practical outlook will allow you to save time and bypass the inconvenience that will result if you allow someone else to take care of your responsibilities. Take control.  



GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put greater emphasis on what you can offer and how you can use your skills, talents and knowledge to your best ability. Someone is likely to withhold information or try to mislead you regarding a job. Don’t be pressured into making an unnecessary donation.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Speak up and share your thoughts and ideas, and you will get a warm response from friends, family and peers. A social or work-related event will bring you in contact with someone who is impressed with what you can do or have to say. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22):Take care of your domestic responsibilities. What you do for those who count on you may not reward you, but in the end your kindness and generosity will pay off. Invest in something that will improve your assets and add to your comfort. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get down to business and focus on whatever task needs to be done. Avoid interference from anyone by being discreet and secretive. An emo­tional matter will spin out of control. Do your best to stay calm and focused. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take a short trip if it will lead to knowledge, experience or the chance to make new friends or meet potential collaborative partners. Love and romance are in the stars.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Stick close to home and take the time to make your surroundings more comfortable and adaptable to your lifestyle. You don’t have to overspend and shouldn’t let anyone pressure you into something you don’t need or want. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Prepare to answer questions and back up your reasons for doing things your way. A problem with a friend, relative or neighbor will escalate if you aren’t prepared to compromise. Prepare to make necessary changes. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Familiar people and places will put you at ease and guide you in a positive direction. Back away from anyone showing signs of instability, excess or unpredictability. Professional gains can be made with the use of a little ingenuity. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):Put more time and effort into self- and home-im­provement projects. Keep the changes you make within budget. Your ability to make something ordinary trendy will be appreciated. Consider turning one of your ideas into a profitable service or product. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Don’t exaggerate. You have to stick to the truth and be prepared to define what your motives are. Try to keep your conversations simple and your plans moderate. You can make headway, but dedication and thriftiness will be required. 


Birthday Baby: You are charming, progressive and sensitive. You are adaptable and insightful. 
JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
Name  

Address 

City State Zip 

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
BENGAL  BOUTS 

On to the next one 
Bouts continue as 48 boxers advance to the semifinals, to be held Tuesday at the Joyce Center 
By CASEY KARNES 
Sports Writer 
Jack “Rico Suave” Lally def. Jackie “The Forgetful Housecat” Garvin 
In the night’s opening fight, three-time defending champion senior Jack Lally took on junior challenger Jackie Garvin. The heavily favored Lally was im­mediately on the attack, striking Garvin with quick, calculated punches. His agility made it dif­ficult for Garvin to respond with any authority and despite his ef­forts, Garvin was unable to land many counters on Lally. By the third round Lally had extended his advantage even more, at­tacking into his opponent with his lightning-quick hands. Lally moved on via unanimous decision. 
Ben “Danger Zone” Eichler def. Kieran Carroll 
In a tough battle, junior Ben Eichler overwhelmed fresh­man Kieran Carroll. The fighters started by testing each other’s de­fenses, probing with jabs but not overcommitting. Eichler, howev­er, was soon on the attack, using punishing hooks and uppercuts to break Carroll’s defensive wall. After pressing his advantage to start the second round, Eichler lost steam, allowing Carroll to land several flurries to the head. After a third round where the boxers traded blow for blow, Eichler parlayed his dominating first round into a unanimous de­cision victory. 
Dan Rodriguez def. Chris “The Hitman” Hinman 
Law student Chris Hinman traded blows with junior Dan Rodriguez in a battle of boxers with opposite fighting styles. Rodriguez used his longer reach to keep Hinman at bay and successfully landed powerful straights to the face on several occasions. Hinman was able to exploit Rodriguez’s defenses, however, when he pinned him against the ropes and unleashed rapid combinations. Hinman was exceedingly aggressive in the third round, pursuing his tired opponent across the ring. But his relentless approach was not enough to defeat Rodriguez’s height advantage though, and Rodriguez claimed a unanimous decision. 
Brian Benedict def. Connor Chelsky 
Senior Brian Benedict con­trolled the bout against 


SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 

Freshman Eamon McOsker, right, unleashes a right-handed punch at senior Matthew Enzweiler during McOsker’s victory during Wednesday night’s quarterfinals at the Joyce Center. 
sophomore Connor Chelsky from beginning to end. Benedict wast­ed no time, launching a constant barrage of punches directly fol­lowing the opening bell. Chelsky weathered the storm and re­sponded in kind, forcing Benedict to retreat. This pattern repeated itself in the second round, but Benedict was able to dodge many of Chelsky’s counter punches. With a decisive advantage head­ing into the third round, the se­nior was on the defensive, but 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Cable emerges as vital cog 

SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 

Irish sophomore guard Madison Cable looks to get past a Louisville defender during Notre Dame’s 93-64 win over the Cardinals on Feb. 11. 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
At the start of the season, soph­omore guard Madison Cable was one of the biggest unknowns on a Notre Dame team filled with numerous holes and question marks. 
The Mount Lebanon, Pa., na­tive entered Notre Dame in the fall of 2011 as a consensus top-100 recruit. Despite her accolades, Cable did not see a minute of ac­tion her freshman season after a stress fracture in both feet side­lined her for the year. 
“It was really hard just to sit on the sidelines at practice every day and to not be able to contribute in games,” Cable said. “But I learned from it and got to experience the season, without actually playing.” 
Although she had a lengthy recovery in front of her, Cable drew upon the experiences from her freshman year to prepare her­self to be a team contributor, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 

“I think the year off really helped her mentally,” McGraw said. “It allowed her to watch practice and see what it was going to be like, so, when she came out this year, she was a lot more ready than a normal freshman coming in.” 
Cable may have been men­tally ready to help the Irish, but the question that remained was whether she could physically re­cover from the stress fractures and log significant minutes on the court. It turned out Irish fans didn’t have to wait long for an an­swer to that question — McGraw named Cable a starter for the team’s first game, an exhibition against Edinboro on Nov. 1. 
Since then, Cable has started only three games, but she has carved out a niche as the team’s sixth man, earning an average of nearly 19 minutes off the bench. 
see CABLE PAGE 18 

his younger counterpart was as aggressive as ever. A strong flurry from Chelsky awakened Benedict and he responded with a power­ful combo that rattled Chelsky and cemented his unanimous decision victory. 
Sean Hipskind def. Kyle Buckley 
Sophomore Sean Hipskind’s superior technique allowed him to triumph over senior Kyle Buckley. Buckley started the fight aggressively, but was out of control, leaving himself open to counter punches. Hipskind took advantage, striking Buckley whenever he lost his balance. The senior adjusted, though, and was calmer in the second round. As a result, Buckley was able to get inside Hipskind’s longer reach and land some powerful blows to the head. This approach put Hipskind on the run in the third 
see BOUTS PAGE 17 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Kavanagh supplies instant impact 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 

Sean Rogers knew from Day One that he was seeing some­thing special. 
The Irish senior attack, now in his fifth season at Notre Dame, recognized in the open­ing fall practice that freshman attack Matt Kavanagh pos­sessed the potential to make an instant impact. 
“From Day One, I knew he had the ability to help us” Rogers said. “We scrimmaged under the lights and he had like five or six goals.” 
Kavanagh did just that Saturday when the No. 3 Irish mauled No. 4 Duke 13-5 in Durham, N.C. The 5-foot-8, 170-pound freshman scored four goals and added an assist against the Blue Devils in his collegiate debut. 
But that didn’t stun Rogers. 

“I wasn’t surprised at all,” Rogers said. “He makes plays every day.” 
Kavanagh said Notre Dame’s preparation in the days lead­ing up to the season opener put him in position to have a pro­lific debut. 
“We prepared all week so it was just making plays when they came up,” Kavanagh said. “We knew we were going to make plays so it was just a mat­ter of finishing.” 
In his junior and senior sea­sons of high school, Kavanagh led his team in scoring and was named team MVP as a senior. After graduating from Chaminade High School in New York, the shifty attack signed on for a postgraduate year at Hotchkiss (CT), a move that Kavanagh said was vital. 
“I’m older, more mature, got another year of lacrosse under my belt and did things at prep 
see KAVANAGH PAGE 18 




