
VOLumE 47, ISSuE 12 | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2013 | NdSmCOBSERVER.COm 

9/11 haunts national conscience 
12 years later, attack still resonates in foreign relations 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI and KAITLYN RABACH 
News Editor and Saint mary’s Editor 
Twelve years after the World Trade Center tragedy on Sept. 11, 2001, the united States’ for­eign policy remains affected by the attack’s lingering effects and “oversensitivity to terrorism,” ac­cording to experts. 
michael desch, Notre dame political science professor and fellow at the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace, said the Sept. 11 attack was catalytic and disproportionate in its political impact. 
“One of the real consequences you see is the willingness of the American public to do things in the name of preventing another 9/11 that they would otherwise not agree to, including two long wars overseas and some pretty significant restrictions of our civil liberties at home,” desch said. 
The American public perceives the possibility of a repeated attack as much greater than it truly is, desch said. 
“I think the magnitude of the threat of international terrorism historically is very low, a lot low­er than the probability of dying in a car crash or from domestic gun violence or other things like that,” he said. “And yet, we tend to remain fixated on the possibil­ity of another terrorist attack in a way that’s out of sync with the real danger it presents to us.” 
daniel Lindley, a Notre dame political science associate pro­fessor and a fellow with the Kroc Institute, said he sees two major ways the memory of Sept.11 still affects today’s politics. 
“First of all, we see it in the gen­eral sensitivity to terrorism. We still spend a lot of money trying to combat terrorism, in particular through intelligence programs,” Lindley said. 
“Second, you see a huge amount of war wariness in 
see 9/11 PAGE 5 

Photo courtesy of Keith Wagner 
The Freedom Tower stands tall as a symbol of strength and a memorial to those who lost their lives in the terrorist attacks of 9/11. 



Professors discuss options for Syria 
Panelists dispute nature of conflict, potential solutions 
By HENRY GENS 
News Writer 
Three preeminent Notre dame faculty members debat­ed the relative merits and con­sequences of American military and political intervention in Syria on Tuesday. 
david Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies, mod­erated the panel discussion. 
Although a proposition by Russia earlier Tuesday all but mooted the question of immi­nent military intervention, the panel still engaged in a lively discussion of the united States’ options with regard to Syria. Asher Kaufman, mary Ellen O’Connell and michael desch presented three distinct views 
see PANELISTS PAGE 5 

EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 
Michael Desch, chair of the political science department, examines the potential outcomes of American military intervention in Syria. 


Experts say Russian compact is not the end 
By TORI ROECK 
Associate News Editor 
Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad agreed to destroy the trou­bled middle Eastern country’s chemical weapons Tuesday in a deal brokered by Russian Prime minister Vladimir Putin. 
Professor david Cortright of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, who moderated Tuesday’s panel discussion on the united States’ role in the Syrian crisis, said this development proves the use of force against Syria would have been the wrong decision for the united States. 
“I hope what we learn from this is that diplomacy can be effective, that the solution to this turns out to be a diplomatic 
see EXPERTS PAGE 4 



Jenkins founds inclusion board 

Observer Staff Report 
university President Fr. John Jenkins announced the creation of a President’s Oversight Committee on diversity and Inclusion in a let­ter sent via email to all faculty, staff and students monday morning. 
The email stated that the com­mittee’s purpose is to extend and deepen the diversity and inclusion of the campus community. 
“With many colleges and uni­versities across the nation, we believe that a diverse commu­nity offers a richer educational environment,” Jenkins said in the email. “What is more, as a Catholic university, Notre dame is part of one of the most ethnically and culturally diverse organizations in the world today, and we strive to re­flect that diversity ever more in our community.” 
Jenkins said in the email that the committee was formed to “maintain … focus and facilitate appropriate communication, co­ordination and accountability” on issues surrounding diversity and inclusion on campus. 
Jenkins will chair the commit­tee. Other members include Laura Carlson, vice president and as­sociate provost and dean of the graduate School; Ann Firth, chief of staff; Erin hoffman harding, vice president for student affairs; Bob mcQuade, vice president for human resources; dan myers, vice president and associate provost; hugh Page, vice president and as­sociate provost for undergraduate affairs and dean of the First year of Studies; matt Storin, senior project specialist and Sarah Wake, direc­tor of the Office of Institutional Equity. 
Committee members will regu­larly share information with the President’s Leadership Council and the deans’ Council, accord­ing to the letter. They will also pe­riodically update the university’s Academic Council, staff Town hall meetings and student government leaders. 


NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 7 SCENE PAGE 8 FOOTBALL PAGE 16 SOCCER PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole michels 
News Editor: Ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hilstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: William heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, managing Editor, Assistant 
managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTmASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


What was your favorite childhood television show? 

Caroline Schuitema 

Margeaux Prinster 
junior 
senior 
Cavanaugh hall 
Welsh Family hall 
“Big Comfy Couch.” 
“Arthur.” 

Kevin Nguyen 

Lauren Kaye 
senior 
freshman 
Carroll hall 
Cavanaugh hall 
“Power Rangers.” 
“Rocket Power.” 

Caroline Cong 

Dani Dorrego 
junior 
senior 
Welsh Family hall 
Badin hall 
“Teletubbies.” 
“hey Arnold.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
Christian myers Brian hartnett Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Abi hoverman Katie heit Rebecca O’Neil Kit Loughran 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Sara Shoemake Allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Wellness Wednesday Mammograms on Lecture: “Violence in Biathalon Concert 
John Ning Tabitha Ricketts 
LaFortune Student Campus Tudor Ireland” Boat House DeBartolo Performing Center Hesburgh Library Flanner Hall 10 a.m.-12 p.m. Arts Center 11 a.m.-2 p.m. 8 a.m.-5 p.m. 3 p.m.-4:30 p.m. Half mile swim in St. 2 p.m.-3:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

Write a letter to the Free for those enrolled in Talk by Patricia Palmer Joseph Lake followed Performance by Third 
The Observer regards itself as armed forces. University medical plan. from King’s College. by two mile run. Coast Percussion. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Conversion and Talk: “A Disciple for Film: “Before ND Women’s Family Film: “Pom 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Literature Workshop Our Time” Midnight” Volleyball Poko” 
however, recognize that we will make 
Geddes Hall Geddes Hall DeBartolo Performing Joyce Center DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
3 p.m.-4:30 p.m. 7 p.m. Arts Center 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Explore classical and Grandaughter 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Match versus Auburn. 3 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

late antiquity. remembers Dorothy Day. Linklater’s 2013 film. Free for ND students. 


Belles embark on job search at Fall Career Expo 
By HANNAH RICHMOND 
News Writer 
Eager Notre dame, Saint mary’s and holy Cross stu­dents filled the Joyce Center Fieldhouse on Tuesday with hopes of getting a job through the Fall Career Expo. 
Stacie Jeffirs, director of the Career Crossings Office at Saint mary’s, said the Fair provides an opportunity to talk with many potential em­ployers in one location. Saint mary’s students took full ad­
“Come up with your plan, follow up and follow through.” 
Stacie Jeffirs 
director of Career Crossings 
vantage of the more than 100 companies that were in at­tendance by going from table to table looking for “the per­fect job,” Jeffirs said. 

Jeffirs said she advises students who attend for the Career Expo to “come up with your plan, follow up and follow through.” Before the Expo, students re­searched companies, modi­fied their résumés, practiced what they wanted to say to employers and discussed ap­propriate attire. 
The Career Crossings Office organizes a Junior Jumpstart and a Senior Kick-Off to help students prepare for the Expo and to search for jobs. The events included a panel of alumnae, interns and employers who spoke about their experiences in the professional world and offered ‘do’s’ and ‘don’ts’ for getting a job. 
Junior accounting major Kelley Wright said the panel at Junior Jumpstart was very helpful. 
“Everyone has their own tips and quirks that seem to work for them,” Wright said. 
Senior psychology major Allie gerths said the Career Crossings Office reviewed her résumé and cover letter a week before the Expo. She said the Career Crossings Office gave her good tips on 
“Everyone has their own tips and quirks that seem to work for them.” 
Kelley Wright 
junior 
her résumé, what to wear and what to say while at the fair. 
gerths said she was en­couraged when she saw Jeffirs and Career Crossings Office associate Kim Patton signing in students at the Expo. 
“I loved that Career Crossings Office was at the Career Fair,” gerths said. “It helped ease my nerves.” 
Contact Hannah Richmond at hrichm01@saintmarys.edu 



PAId AdVERTISEmENT 

ND Career Fair connects students and hiring alumni 
By JILLIAN FINKELSTEIN 
News Writer 
hundreds of students dressed more formally than usual descended upon the Joyce Center for the annual Fall Career Expo on Tuesday. 
This year, more than 165 companies from a wide array of industries were represent­ed at the expo. 
The event spans two days and includes a Full-Time Fair, intended for graduating se­niors, and an Internship Fair, open to all students, which will be held from 4 to 8 p.m. today. 
hilary Flanagan, direc­tor of career services, said the event enables students to meet company represen­tatives, many of whom are Notre dame alumni. 
“Career fairs are a great op­portunity to actually meet face-to-face with the recruit­ers, many of whom bring young Notre dame alumni back who are eager to share their experiences,” Flanagan said. 
Senior Bill Terry, a finance and consulting major, said this is his third career fair, having attended as both a sophomore and a junior. Of the three so far, Terry said this fair is the most serious because he is now looking for full-time employment. 
“It’s different now that I’m looking for a full-time job. … It’s more serious business,” Terry said. 
Senior mia Counts, a histo­ry major, said the experience was enjoyable and good prep­aration for her post-graduate job search. 
“It was very well organized. … All of the recruiters I talk­ed to were very warm and friendly. Whatever happens, it was very good practice for the future,” Counts said. 
Terry said he agreed that talking to so many com­panies interested in hiring Notre dame graduates will help him find a job in the near future. 
“A lot of employers were all in the same location looking to hire Notre dame grads. It allows you to talk to profes­sionals. … It will help with networking and contacts in my job search,” he said. 
Flanagan said while the Fall Career Expo is one of the Career Center’s most no­table offerings, resources such as mock interviews and résumé reviews are avail­able year-round. Workshops and events are also held fre­quently to provide venues for networking with employers and alumni in specific lines of work. 

Senior Jasmine young, a psychology major, said the Career Center helped her pre­pare her résumé for the Expo. 
“To prepare, I went to a ca­reer fair prep course they held and updated my résumé,” young said. 
Flanagan said beyond the Career Expo there are re­sources online to help stu­dents in their job searches. 
“up-to-date information can be found in gOIRISh. Organizations and compa­nies that specifically want Notre dame students will post information about job and in­ternship openings through­out the year,” she said. “Students are encouraged to go online to discover not only who is coming, but also for which kind of openings they are actually recruiting.” 
Flanagan said the Career Center will hold several other events this week in addition to the Expo. 
The “Backstage Pass” pro­gram, specifically intended for first time attendees of the Internship Fair, will take place on Wednesday at 3 p.m. 
“Career fairs are a great opportunity to actually meet face-to-face with the recruiters, many of whom bring young Notre Dame alumni back who are eager to share their experiences.” 
Hilary Flanagan 
director of career services 

in the Joyce Center and will teach students how to effec­tively present themselves to employers, Flanagan said. 
In addition, employers will be holding interviews at the Career Center throughout the week for both full-time and internship positions. 
Flanagan said the Fall Career Expo is not the only one of the year, since compa­ny-hiring needs change and some organizations need to hire at different times of the year. 
“The Fall Career Expo is heavy on industries who know their hiring prognosis for the year. Organizations have dif­ferent hiring timelines, so we also hold a Winter Career and Internship Fair,” she said. 
Contact Jillian Finkelstein at jfinkels@nd.edu 

ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2013 | NdSmCOBSERVER.COm 

Police encourage students to have fun, responsibly 
By JOANNA LAGEDROST 
News Writer 
Local police and university officials addressed off-campus safety and proper ways to enjoy college nightlife at Tuesday’s Student Safety Summit in the Carey Auditorium of the hesburgh Library. 
Sgt. Tracy Skibins of the Notre dame Security Police headed up the panel of law enforcement officers who offered safety tips to students and answered ques­tions about what is acceptable in South Bend and how best to avoid trouble. 
Included in the discussion were representatives from the Office of Campus Safety, the Notre dame student body, the Indiana State Excise Police, various departments within the South Bend Police department (SBPd) and Notre dame Security Police department (NdSP), the mishawaka Police department, the St. Joseph County Police department and an attorney from the South Bend Special Victims unit. 
NdSP’s assistant deputy chief of safety services Keri Kei Shibata said NdSP works to help students stay safe but stu­dents also should contact NdSP when problems arise. 
“NdSP tries to be a very ser­vice-oriented agency, but we rely on [students] to let us know when something does not seem right or when someone may be in trouble,” Shibata said. 

Ron Teachman, chief of the South Bend Police department, said his officers don’t want to make arrests but rather, seek to ensure safety. 
“We take no pleasure in ar­resting students,” Teachman said. 
Bill Thompson from the St. Joseph County Police department echoed this sentiment. 
“We want you to have the best four years in college,” Thompson said. 
In reference to the recent off-campus armed robbery, Teachman cautioned students to travel in groups as a preven­tative measure. 
Lt. Patrick hechlinski, a crime prevention specialist at the 
SmC engineers aspire to impress at Industry day 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
News Writer 
The Career Center’s Engineering Industry day drew more than just corporate repre­sentatives to campus Tuesday, 
namely,  engineering  students  
from Saint mary’s.  
The  Engineering  Industry  

day (EId) event brings engi­neering companies and stu­dents together through a variety of events at the Joyce Athletic and Convention Center. 
Azunne Anigbo, a chemistry major at Saint mary’s and chem­ical engineer at Notre dame, said last year’s EId Fair helped her advance her career goals. 
“I went to the Industry Fair last year, and it was really good,” Anigbo said. “I met with a lot of people [and] got an interview out of it.” 
Saint mary’s chemistry pro­fessor and engineering program administrator dr. Toni Barstis said like the Notre dame Career Expo, the EId Fair hosts com­panies looking to hire students in specific fields. The Fair gives students the opportunity to network with recruiters while researching and applying for positions. 
Jenna Troppman, a Saint mary’s math and Notre dame civil engineering major, said she was pleased by the variety of businesses at the Fair and found some firms with which she would like to intern. 
“It was very enlightening, see­ing all the companies and all the different [things] that they do and all the different locations,” Troppman said. 
Barstis said the Saint mary’s engineers met with career ex­ploration specialist Laura Flynn from the Career Center on Thursday in order to prepare for the EId Fair. Flynn worked with the students to improve their re­sumes and interview skills. 

Saint mary’s junior mary Kate hussey, a chemistry and chemical engineering double major, said working with Flynn prepared her for her future job search. 
“I think that it really helps make you aware of what you need to do in the future at in­terviews and other career fairs,” she said. 
In addition to the Fair, Engineering Industry day in­cluded a dinner for minority en­gineers, a breakfast for chemical 
“I was able to experience a technical degree in a small setting like Saint Mary’s but also able to experience the large lectures at Notre Dame.” 
Madeline Powell 
Saint Mary’s alumna 

engineers, a civil engineering lunch and other, major-specific events. These activities enable students to meet engineering companies in a more intimate environment that provides am­ple opportunities for network­ing and learning more about a specific industry, Barstis said. 
haley gordon, a chemistry and chemical engineering ma­jor, said most of the EId events were during class times, which made it difficult for Saint mary’s engineers to participate. 
Neverthless, Chanler Rosenbaum, a math and me­chanical engineering major, and some other Saint mary’s engineers managed to attend. Rosenbaum said after attend­ing a event specific to her major monday, she was excited about the EId Fair. 
“I went to the Aerospace/ mechanical Engineering Night [on monday],” Rosenbaum said. “I thought it was a great experi­ence. I learned about the differ­ent departments that were most interesting to me in each com­pany. I talked to a few compa­nies ... and will talk to them [at the Fair] to show that I am very interested in interning at their company.” 
Saint mary’s alumna megan gin, a chemist and cellular bi­ologist representing British Petroleum (BP) at the Fair, said the dual-degree engineering program made her an asset to her employer. 
“It’s a very challenging pro­gram, to say the least, but it is something that’s very reward­ing in the end,” gin said. 
gin said when she was a stu­dent, the dual-degree engineer­ing program was in its early years. 
“I think the program was still growing,” gin said. “I think as more and more people become aware of the program and un­derstand it, each year it gets a little bit bigger and it gets a little bit better.” 
Chemist and cellular biologist madeline Powell, another Saint mary’s alumna, represented the SPX corporation at the Fair. She said the dual-degree program gave her an analytical under­standing of what it takes to work in a lab as an engineer and a scientist. The senior composi­tion experience at Saint mary’s also gave her confidence and an advantage when presenting in professional and technical envi­ronments, she said. 
“I was able to experience a technical degree in a small set­ting like Saint mary’s but also able to experience the large lec­tures at Notre dame,” Powell said. “That was invaluable.” 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 
South Bend Police department, said students should not carry more money than they need when off campus. Additionally, carrying credit cards when go­ing out is never a good idea. 
“don’t carry a wallet or purse,” hechlinski said.  “Carry the im­portant things in your pocket.” 
Captain Scott Ruszkowski of the SBPd, who often deals with Notre dame off-campus par­ties, said it is important to re­member that most of the time a criminal’s intent is to take your belongings without physically harming you. 
“usually, people are not look­ing to harm you; they only want what you have,” Ruszkowski said. 
Ruszkowski said he regularly 
Experts 
CONTINuEd FROm PAgE 1 
agreement, not military strikes,” Cortright said. “Although … the threat of military strikes helped to catalyze the diplomatic action.” 
Cortright said the united States should realize that Russia could be a helpful ally in dealings with the middle East. 
“We can benefit from cooperat­ing with Russia,” he said. “Everyone was sort of bashing Russia these days, but as much as we may dis­agree with some of mr. Putin’s poli­cies, the fact of the matter is that Russia’s cooperation can be very important in solving some of these difficult challenges.” 
Another difficult challenge Russia could help solve is the nucle­ar problem in Iran, Cortright said. 
“It’s very significant that Iran expressed support for the Russian deal right away; within four or five hours of when it was announced, the Iranian foreign ministry said, ‘We support this proposal,’” he said. “That sent a message to Assad that … his two main patrons basically said, ‘here’s the deal.’ he really had no choice but to accept it.” 
Cortright said although the chemical weapons deal negates the possibility of immediate united States military intervention in the region, Congress may pass a reso­lution to discuss the use of force at a later date if Syria reneges on its promise. 
“Senator [harry] Reid made a speech just the other day … and that’s basically the veiled message that he’s making — that we need to keep the potential threat of mili­tary action still in the background, not take it off the table entirely,” Cortright said. 
In the meantime, Cortright said he thinks it’s the united Nations’ job to make sure Syria sticks to its chemical weapons agreement. 
“I’ve advocated for a long time that the u.N. should be front and center in this whole question,” he said. “The administration initially mishandled the u.N. because the first proposal they made to the u.N. was military action. There was no way Russia was going to support that, or Argentina, or China; several countries on the [Security] Council encounters students who at­tempt to outrun law enforce­ment officers. he warned students that in those situations they will be caught and will face harsher consequences. 

“you can’t outrun the police radio,” he said. 
Sgt. Alvin Taylor of the Indiana State Excise Police re­iterated the need for taking re­sponsibility for mistakes. he said lying can only make things worse. 
“If the police show up, and if you’re in charge of the resi­dence, step forward and say you’re in charge of the resi­dence,” Taylor said. 
Contact Joanna Lagedrost at jlagedro@nd.edu 
said ‘no’ right away. So that was a mistake. But now, Secretary [of State John] Kerry, apparently, and the [Obama] administration and certainly the French, have said we need to go to the u.N. now to get the u.N. to implement the Russian deal.” 
Cortright said the u.N. is most qualified to ensure Syria disposes of its chemical weapons. 
“I’m sure we will insist upon on-the-ground monitoring to make sure this is really happen­ing, and that’s a role for the u.N.,” he said. “The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) — they have the experts … It’s an organization that was created through a u.N. process, although it’s an independent organization. But it reports to the u.N., so the u.N. working with the OCPW will need to play a key role in monitoring and implementing this resolution.” 
Cortright said the Catholic Church has been vocal in its op­position to military interference in Syria, and its hierarchy is most likely pleased with the diplomatic deal and the role of the u.N. in im­plementing it. 
“The Church position is that war and military action is always a de­feat for humankind. It’s always a vi­olation of god’s desires for humans to be more loving and more godlike in our lives,” Cortright said. “They had this prayer vigil at the Vatican this weekend … that seemed al­most like a peace rally, and the Pope stayed for most of it, and it went well into the night.” 
The united States Conference of Catholic Bishops also released two letters urging peaceful solutions, one addressed to Congress and the Obama Administration and one addressed to the leaders of the g20 Summit, Cortright said. 
Cortright said he believes the Church is happy that military in­tervention in Syria is off the table, at least for now. 
“I haven’t seen yet a statement from the bishops or the Vatican, but I suspect that everyone’s re­lieved and is perhaps believing that they’re prayers were probably an­swered,” he said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


9/11 
CONTINuEd FROm PAgE 1 
America. The opposition to a Syrian strike right now is unbe­lievably huge on Capitol hill, and that’s partly because of the wars we were involved in after 9/11.” 
Lindley said the united States’ response to the attack in 2001 had major consequences, including becoming involved in two wars, hurting relations with some armed members of the muslim world and “getting bogged down in Iraq and Afghanistan.” 
marc Belanger, chair of the Saint mary’s department of Political Science, said American intervention in Iraq and Afghanistan damaged relations with some of the united States’ allies and created problems for foreign policy with respect to the middle East.
 “The tendency of the united States to expect others to ac­cept our definition of the War on Terrorism, especially in the wake of the Iraq War, in particular, un­dermined the reputation of the united States globally, especial­ly in the Arab world,” Belanger said. “you can see that right now with the nation dealing with a response to Syria and the use of chemical weapons.” 
Belanger said he often wonders whether or not it is really possible to fight a war on terrorism. 
“you can fight a war on Al Qaeda, but can you fight against a political method?” Belanger said. “It is such an imprecise, slippery concept — a misno­mer which has led to a lot of confusion.” 
desch and Lindley said the public’s tendency to overreact to any suggestion of terrorism has adversely affected today’s inter­national relations policies. 
“I think the general proclivity has been to overreact, and I think it’s a function of the fact that 9/11 involved an event that was unexpected and surprising and certainly horrific in its conse­quences,” desch said. “But not more horrific than other wars or other things that kill people or cause grievous injury. 

“Inasmuch as we overreact, the ghost of Osama bin Laden is smiling because a key objective of terrorism is symbolic, and the symbolic force of a terrorist at­tack is magnified when a target overreacts.” 
Lindley said any act of ter­rorism, from 9/11 to the Boston marathon attack, “wakes peo­ple up,” but not overreacting is crucial. 
“It’s of course prudent to take reasonable steps against terror­ism, as with any national secu­rity threat,” he said. “however, … we have to put things in histori­cal perspective and be confident that the united States will sur­vive almost any crisis.” 
Belanger said attacks on the twin towers did impact the way the united States “faced the enemy.” 
“For a time, there was this sense that with facing an en­emy like this we have to take our gloves off and are going to have ‘to go over to the dark side’ like Cheney famously said,” Belanger said. 
Belanger said this notion un­dermined the legitimacy of the united States when it comes to human rights concerns. 
“Certain methods used under the Bush administration made it harder for us to speak from a moral high ground as a coun­try and made it harder for us to challenge human rights abuses in other places in the world,” he said. 
Belanger said when a country of the united States’ prominence violates its own standards, the nation becomes vulnerable. 

“9/11 took us down some dif­ferent paths,” he said. “Some of the different methods we have used are in clear violation of hu­man rights and that makes us vulnerable as a nation. I would not necessarily say this makes us vulnerable to foreign attack, but rather makes us vulnerable to losing our reputation as a nation with diplomatic good will.” 
desch said he would advise a “keep calm and carry on” ap­proach to terrorism. 
“For us, terrorism has been a source of panic,” he said. “The contrast between a sensible, rea­soned assessment with prudent steps versus what we’ve done is quite striking.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu and Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Community Standards replaces Residential Life 
By CHRISTOPHER DANIEL 
News Writer 
Students used to cringe at the thought of having to go to the Office of Residence Life, but the new school year has brought changes to the university’s con­duct system. 
members of the Office of Community Standards, which has replaced the Office of Residence Life, gathered in the LaFortune Student Center on Tuesday to discuss these ad­justments to the disciplinary process. 
director of community stan­dards Ryan Willerton said these changes are only to the process a student undergoes and not to the actual policies regarding student conduct. 
Willerton said the motive for the new change was to create a disciplinary system that address­es the specific needs and offenses of individual students. 
“We will look at every student as an individual,” Willerton said. “We want to get to the heart of the matter and try to make a process that helps a student learn and grow.” 
university officials conducted a comprehensive review of stu­dent opinions about the conduct system and of standards at other leading universities. Willerton said this review highlighted the problems with the Residence Life system. 
“After we compiled all this in­formation, we noticed procedur­al inconsistencies,” he said. 
Sarah Senseman, director of constituent services for Student government, explained how cer­tain scenarios will play out under the new policy. She said if a stu­dent is intoxicated on campus, he or she will receive an individual­ized punishment. 
“In the old system, students would have been referred to the Office of Residence Life along with the option of 20 hours of community service or a $200 fine. Now, this [infraction] will result in a meeting with a rector, along with an outcome tailored to the specific student,” Senseman said. 

Another change is that the university will no longer report first-time offenses of this level to external groups or individuals, Senseman said. 
members of the Office of Community Standards also dis­cussed the continuation of the Peer Advocacy Program, which allows students undergoing the conduct process to meet with a peer adviser. 
Erin O’Brien, vice president of the Judicial Council for Peer Advocacy, said the Peer Advocacy Program enables students to bet­ter work with the system instead of against it. She said students can consult with these peer ad­vocates before, during or after the conduct process. 
O’Brien said the Peer Advocacy Program makes the disciplinary process less stressful for students. 
“We want to ease anxiety that students may have about the conduct process,” she said. 
Willerton said the new system is designed to create a campus community where behavior is characterized by proper respect for others. 


“It’s all about holistic devel­opment of our students. …The standards of our community are really based on respect,” he said. 
There are only two circum­stances under which a disci­plinary case can be appealed, Willerton said. 
“Only a procedural defect or a new form of information about a case can reopen it. … One cannot file a new case based on the se­verity of the outcome,” Willerton said. 
Willerton said the new poli­cies give rectors and resident as­sistants increased opportunities for mentorship and conversation with students. 
“The rector knows you best and can figure out an outcome that will help you learn and keep the problem from happening again,” Willerton said. 
many standards of conduct and the associated levels of dis­ciplinary referral are available at communitystandards.nd.edu 
Contact Christopher Daniel at cdaniel4@nd.edu 
Panelists 
CONTINuEd FROm PAgE 1 
about how the united States should approach the recent de­velopments in the middle Eastern nation. 
Kaufman, associate professor of history and peace studies, said the situation in Syria involves not only internal turmoil, but also conflict with neighboring states. 
“This conflict is beyond one circumscribed within the boundaries of Syria,” Kaufman said. “It has become a regional is­sue, and this is how it needs to be understood.” 
Kaufman named several con­tributors to the regional nature of the Syrian conflict, including an influx of thousands of Islamists from neighboring countries and upheaval resulting from the in­ternally displaced people and from the millions of refugees spreading beyond Syria’s borders. 
“The numbers are disturb­ing, mind-boggling — over two million refugees outside of the boundaries of Syria are in neigh­boring countries,” Kaufman said. “The hosting countries need to provide them with basic needs — jobs, roofs over their heads — and in countries such as Lebanon, with an estimated 500,000 Syrian refugees and a native popula­tion of only four million, you can imagine the pressure on Lebanese resources to try and support these Syrian refugees.” 
In contrast to Kaufman’s illus­tration of the regional conflict, O’Connell, a research professor of international dispute resolution and professor of law, focused on the need to uphold the integrity of international law in approach­ing a resolution for the Syrian conflict. 
“The heart of the matter of this moment is the international legal norm against the use of chemi­cal weapons,” O’Connell said. “It is binding on Syria: Syria is a full sovereign party to the geneva gas protocol of 1925.” 
Although she acknowledged Syria to be in clear violation of international norms against chemical weapons, O’Connell stressed the importance of le­gitimizing further intervention in Syria by acting in strict accor­dance with the united Nations Charter. 

“If we start saying legitimacy is something other than what is commensurate with interna­tional legality, we are weaken­ing the very system of norms that have banned the use of military force,” she said. “These principles, developed and re­ported on by a high-level [united Nations] panel, were brought to­gether in the 2005 World Summit Outcome document — to which the united States and every other member of the uN agreed — and it said that the Charter is suf­ficient to address the full range of threats to international peace and security.” 
While Kaufman and O’Connell discussed political frameworks for approaching the conflict in Syria, desch, a professor of po­litical science, evaluated possible military tactics the united States could employ in Syria and the political feasibility and conse­quences of these scenarios. 
“despite the relatively formi­dable Syrian military, the united States has lots of conceivable military options,” desch said. “From a purely objective military standpoint, military operations in Syria would be a cakewalk. We can do basically anything we want to do.” 
despite a plethora of available tactics, ranging from ground in­terventions to airstrikes, desch said the solution to the Syrian problem would have to remain largely political in nature. 
“The limiting factor in the ad­ministration’s decision calculus is not so much the military fac­tor, but rather, the political fac­tor,” he said. “Would any use of military force actually advance [American] political interest? my Clausewitzian assessment is that none of our military options will achieve any political objectives that we have.” 
Contact Henry Gens at hgens1@nd.edu 
Folding hands and holding hands 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Fast food king 

Sara Shoemake 
graphics Editor 

If you roll into the Chipotle on Eddy Street at 6 p.m. on a Thursday night, the line is probably about 20-people deep. 
I generally don’t do lines. I considered skipping this football season because the ticket line outside the JACC was absurd and it was 100 degrees out. 
So a fast food line longer than five peo­ple sends me out the door empty handed because at any joint other than Chipotle, I have to stand in line behind customers who spend inordinate amounts of time deciding which version of grade d meat they want. 
It’s 2013. I expected there would be some sort of “minority Report”-style soft­ware that knows what food I want and has it ready before I even realize I’m hungry. 
Chipotle gets it right in a couple of ways. 
1.
 They make you think you’re being healthy, eating organic beef from joyful cows that were spoon-fed greek yogurt and acai berries at an ashram in India where they found inner peace and glee­fully offered themselves up as sacrifice. And although the average meal probably has over 1,000 calories, you feel better about it than eating a Big mac and fries. 

2.
 They also expedite the ordering pro­cess, partly because their menu has, like, two items. It’s a no-nonsense process. “Burrito or bowl? Rice? Beans? meat? Salsa? Sour cream and cheese? The guac costs extra.” There’s no time to be indeci­sive — you just choose. 

3.
 When you go to mcdonald’s, it never feels clean. Everything is lino­leum, and don’t even get me started on the play place. Chipotle, however, styled everything in sleek stainless steel. So even though it could be and probably is crawling with germs, it feels clean and sophisticated. 


There are some fast food places that are headed in the right direction. Subway’s ordering system is similar but is plagued with too many menu options and some sketchy-looking lettuce. does anyone honestly order the meatball sub? how does that big metal box make my sand­wich crispy yet lukewarm in 25 seconds? 
Taco Bell is great for those who have been drinking all night and want to drown their self-loathing in fake queso. I’m pretty sure the only way mcdonald’s has any customers is because their chick­en nuggets are laced with some sort of highly-addictive, controlled substance. 
Five guys just looks sad. When I’m wait­ing on line at Chipotle, I like to look over at the empty Five guys dining room and watch the somber-looking patrons munch on their free peanuts. 
So, Chipotle, you have my heart and a nice chunk of my bank account. Please, never change. 
Contact Sara Shoemake at sshoemak@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Fr. Kevin Nadolski 
Faith matters 
Saturday’s day of Fasting and Prayer for Peace in Syria led by Pope Francis galvanized Catholics and non-Catholics to both pray and fast for peace. Concern for our neighbors in Syria has riveted hearts, minds and souls to the urgency of the need for violence to end. Our yearn­ing for peace is so intense, we have felt it in our guts. Certainly, people living in war-torn areas need peace as much as they need food and water. It is a grace for us to be connected to them, spiritually in our prayer and physically in our fasting. 
how we pray, in general, may illustrate just how our hearts stretch, in particular, for Syria. While there are many prayer styles and methods, two gestures are especially illustrative here: folding hands and holding hands. 
As a little boy growing up in Catholic school in Philadelphia, I was taught to pray with my hands folded. Every Sunday, I remember watching my older brother Tommy returning from receiving communion, kneeling at our pew and bowing his head against folded hands in prayer. Idolizing him as if he were Jesus, I couldn’t wait for my turn to be old enough to leave the pew and walk up the aisle for communion and then “be holy” like him. I never asked him what he was saying to god, but I knew I would eventually learn. Watching how seemingly holy my otherwise macho, rambunctious brother became made me think praying after communion was as important as receiving Jesus in the sacrament. To this day, I prefer to fold my hands when I pray. 
While this is comfortable for me, I ad­mit I frequently feel uncomfortable when I do it — especially when others around me are reaching for my hands to hold. Whether at mass or at a prayer service, folks reach out in gestures of communal prayer and community building to ex­press our unity as we offer our prayer to our god. unquestionably, this is a good custom and feels appropriate, as when praying the Lord’s Prayer at mass. 

however, I confess I don’t necessarily like it. I do think I am a warm person, enjoy liturgies with a strong sense of community and view the church from a model that places tremendous emphasis on the People of god. yet, my instincts tell me to fold my hands, close my eyes and talk to god as I stand shoulder to shoulder with my sisters and brothers in community. Additionally, I don’t mind fewer exposures to more germs just mo­ments before placing food — albeit the Eucharist — in my mouth. 
Embarrassed by the idiosyncrasy of all of this, I have begun to wonder if something deeper beckons me and shows a truth of the life of the disciple that is pretty obvious: Prayer is a balance between the personal and communal experiences. Very simply, we need to take time to pray by ourselves, whether we fold our hands or not, to develop a personal, intimate relationship with the god who creates and re-creates us through life in the Spirit. 
Similarly, we are called to gather with others, exposing ourselves to their needs and desires, doubts and disappoints — even their germs — so we can grow more compassionate, grateful, and Christian. Perhaps we do need to be infected by others’ spiritualities to come to develop our own more fully. 
Our intercessory praying is a Christian act of care and charity for our neighbors in need. From those in our classes and dorms to our sisters and brothers un­known to us in Syria and Sudan, people need us. Through prayer, we touch them when we lift them to god. When we touch others’ hands in prayer, we are reminded we are not alone, for more people in prayer have greater strength to lift more people in need. 
Indeed, Jesus told his disciples, when instructing them about prayer, to go to the quiet of the inner room, close the door and pray to the Father in secret (matthew 6:6). Jesus also called his dis­ciples to pray at the Last Supper and to share his Body and Blood and to serve each other, touching and washing feet, asking them — and us — to do this in memory of him. 
yes, prayer is a balance of the personal and communal outreach to god. We see our need to pray hard for our neighbors in Syria. Let us commit to this, each as a disciple of the Jesus Christ. And, let us gather with others, joining our hearts and hands to lift up our struggling sisters and brothers. By both folding our hands and holding others’, we can touch the hearts of those most in need and feel the pulse of our loving god helping them through our loving prayers. 
Fr. Kevin Nadolski, OSFS, a priest with the Oblates of St. Francis de Sales, works for his community as director of development and communications. He has served the church as a Catholic high school teacher, campus minister and principal, as well as vocation and formation director for the Oblates. He lives with his community in Wilmington, Del., and can be reached at knadolski@oblates.org 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




Striking down a bad argument 
Adam Newman 
Scientia Potentia Est 

There are many Americans today who use a literal interpretation of the Bible to justify their beliefs on social issues, such as pre-marital sex, abor­tion and, most relevant to today’s poli­tics, gay marriage. The most relevant Bible passage is Leviticus 18:22: “do not have sexual relations with a man as one does with a woman; that is detestable.” 
Passages such as the above has be­come the basis for why anti-gay mar­riage advocates believe it is immoral for two men or women to have sex or marry. however, a closer examination of their argument shows why it cannot even hold (holy) water. 
The issue with a literal interpreta­tion of the Bible is that the Bible en­dorses many other practices that we as a society have come to abhor. 
For example, the Bible endorses slav­ery: “Slaves, obey your earthly masters with deep respect and fear. Serve them sincerely as you would serve Christ” (Ephesians 6:5), and, “your male and female slaves are to come from the na­tions around you; from them you may buy slaves. you may also buy some of the temporary residents living among you and members of their clans born in your country, and they will become your property” (Leviticus 25:44-5). 
The Bible endorses the idea of a man’s superiority over women: “Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord,” (Ephesians 5:22-33). The Bible also endorses how people should work: “On six days work may be done, but the seventh day shall be sacred to you as the Sabbath of complete rest to the Lord. Anyone who does work on that day shall be put to death” (Exodus 35:2). 
As one can see, a literal interpreta­tion of the Bible produces countless other lifestyles and procedures that as a society today we would find weird, immoral and evil. 
The reason for opposition to cer­tain social issues based on a literal interpretation of the Bible, however, is largely political. After the Roe v. Wade ruling in 1973, members of the modern conservative movement saw an opportunity to define themselves based on social issues, such as op­posing abortion and gay rights. Social issues not only electrified the conser­vative base, but also stole away a large segment of conservative democrats. 
This strategy has proved effective, as the Republican party controlled the presidency the majority of terms since 1980 and was able to become more competitive in Congressional elections. 

But if we are not to interpret the Bible literally, then how should we interpret it? One must realize that the Bible is a series of stories passed down from generation to generation over the course of centuries. 
The writers of the Bible lived in very different times than we do today, when slavery, polygamy, etc., were acceptable practices. This is reflected in the Bible’s content. One must look past the small details and dig deeper into the Bible by understanding the context it was written in and then examining the symbolism and main message the story works to convey. 
Anyone who simply interprets the Bible literally will end up with a con­tradictory set of beliefs and not have as full an understanding of the main message the Bible conveys: god’s un­ending and unquestionable love for his creation (including gay people). 
This leads me back to the idea of lit­erally interpreting the Bible and those who endorse it: Why don’t you also vigorously advocate for other policies based on a literal interpretation of the Bible, like slavery and polygamy? Why don’t you advocate to ban pre-marital sex? (“Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for god will judge the sexu­ally immoral and adulterous” hebrews 13:4.) Why don’t you advocate for laws against people to get divorced, or remarried? (“Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and he who marries a woman divorced from her husband commits adultery” Luke 16:18.) 
The other question is that if people believe Leviticus 18:22 should be in­terpreted literally, then why shouldn’t you also interpret Leviticus 20:13 liter­ally? (“If a man lies with a man as one lies with a woman, both of them have done what is detestable. They must be put to death; their blood will be on their own heads.”) 
Those who justify their opposition to gay marriage and other gay rights based on a literal interpretation of the Bible simply use the Bible as a shield to protect their misguided views against gay people. 
Rather, the Bible should be inter­preted using context for a greater understanding of god’s love for his people. 
But most importantly, we should realize that cherry-picking a specific verse out of the Bible to justify a policy position is wrong, especially when it is used to denigrate god’s creation. 
Adam Newman is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Entering the Shadow Lands 
Caleb Cobbin 
Viewpoint Columnist 

I distinctly remember my first meet­ing with my RA in my freshman year. There was a good 15-minute diatribe about the dangers of South Bend and how Notre dame is a bubble that is hard to break out of. my RA and oth­ers told horror stories of people getting mugged, beaten up or taken advantage of from the outsiders who reside away from our campus. As a South Bend “townie,” I was particularly reminded of this iconic scene from The Lion King: 
mufasa: “Everything the light touch­es is our kingdom.” 
Simba: “Wooow …  And what about that shadowy place?” 
mufasa: “That is beyond our borders. … you must never go there, Simba!” 
In this scene, it is like mufasa is speaking to every single student here. For the next four years, I continued to hear this sentiment in the same count­less “thriving metropolis” jokes and complaints about the bipolar weather, or in references to the abounding crime and sketchiness. 
For the most part, these trivialities never provoked more than an eye roll or fake laugh from me. however, I was overtaken with anger when a friend in my section called South Bend an explicit name and followed up his as­sessment with the comment that “the best part about South Bend was Notre dame.” 
When I discuss the matter with my South Bend friends, we all seem to reach the same conclusions. Liz Everett, a fellow “townie” and senior on campus shed some insight on the issue: “The extent of knowledge for the aver­age Nd student of South Bend is Eddy Street and grape Road and not much else.” 
The “story of South Bend” told from the very beginning of freshman year is sadly an incomplete one. how many students have been to a Silver hawks game or the Potawatomi Park/Zoo? how many students have visited the art museum or seen a show at the morris downtown, or gone kayaking in the East Race waterway or run on the many trails around the city? 
moreover, South Bend gives Notre dame students a unique opportunity to serve in a way that would be harder on any other college campuses. The city need tutors, teachers, and willing and open minds. 
how many students have ventured off campus to the Catholic Worker, which feeds and shelters the homeless and many others, or volunteered at the Robinson Center — a place where I spent much of my time when I was younger, for tutoring and piano les­sons? There are many other countless organizations that need servers to up­lift the community, and there are many students on this campus that are will­ing to do so. 

michael Strock, another South Bender who was born and raised in the city, when asked to sum up the relationship between the two entities in one word replies, “Apprehensive; [Notre dame students] are aware of the existence of South Bend but are cau­tious and ignorant when it come to the true spirit of the city.”
 I will be the first to recognize the drudgeries I experienced growing up. There were many times I said to my grandparents, “I’m bored,” “there is nothing to do here” or “I can’t wait to get out.” I’ve complained countless times about the cold in the winter and the unbearable heat and humidity in the summer. 
I also recognize that South Bend is not all sunshine and happiness and these bad things are a part of the real­ity. But there still remains something in this place that is not connected to the shimmer of the dome we adore. 
There are residents of South Bend whose extent of Notre dame knowledge is merely the traffic on home football Saturdays and a university they would never have the hope to attend. To them, Notre dame is nowhere near the best part of the city. There are people like me who had never thought of the university seriously until high school. Now, I am more thankful than ever for having grown up in both worlds. 
I am not here to make out South Bend to be something that it’s not. But like all stereotypes, while truth lies within them somewhere, they are often one-sided and incomplete, and no people or community deserves to be made into a mere perception of the truth. 
I understand there are many stu­dents who successfully venture outside the bubble; I commend them. To those who haven’t, I charge you to do so. go into the shadow lands, make a mark in a community and surprise yourself! By working in the community, learning the countless stories of the good people here and understanding the history of this place, South Bend becomes less of an apprehension and more of a reality. 
Caleb Cobbin is a senior. He can be reached at ccobbin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 





Gabriela Leskur 

DEALING WITH THE AFTERMATH: 
Scene Writer 

Common interests 
So you and your beau didn’t make it to ring by spring. 
In the case that for some unknown reason you decided to date someone who had anything in common with you, follow these Shocker. 
simple steps: 
Now that you don’t have to worry about nailing the Basilica for the 
If you have the same class, drop the class. perfect fall wedding, the real worries have set in. Obviously, the most terrifying possibility is this scenario: you stroll 
If you have the same major, drop the major. into the dining hall to enjoy a nice pasta stir-fry and the comic section of the newspaper when you suddenly lock eyes with your most recent 
If you have the same interests, change your interests. failed romantic endeavor. Cue the awkward smile and friendly nod, hiding hurt feelings and 
If you have the same friends, make new ones. general animosity. Why don’t you forgo that encounter? 
The key to your personal happiness is redefining your Enjoy your pasta in peace by following some tips that previously-
personality. burned lovers came up with and just happened to leave behind for other ex-stricken domers looking for an escape route. 
uprooting your identity is a small price to pay to avoid your ex. 
Unexpected encounters 
In the case that for some unknown reason you decided to date 
PREVENTIVE MEASURES: 
someone who ever visits campus, follow these simple steps: The first step to guaranteeing you will never see your ex relies on an extensive screening process. Be selective with your love interests and 
Never go to the dining halls. seek out some preliminary requirements before you fall head over heels. Never go to Reckers or LaFortune past 10 p.m. 
Location, location, location. 
If possible, long distance is the way to go. girl lives in California? 
Never go to the Library or Como. you’re golden. Boy studying abroad in Australia? match made in heaven. In the case that Skype dates and care packages make you want to barf, 
Never go to O’Shag, debart or any other academic building. there are some rules you should follow for on-campus dating: Never go to the Basilica. don’t even think about dating someone in your brother or sister dorm. 
Never walk through any quad. 
Never date someone on the same quad. 
The safest policy is to never leave your dorm or your room. The only exception being personal hygiene, and even that is optional. Never date someone who eats at the same dining hall. 
you should live off of Easy mac, Keurig coffee and Netflix. Or retreat to a pineapple under the sea. If your beloved isn’t at least an eight-minute walk from you, ditch them. 
This shouldn’t be too hard. 
Strong foundation of apathy 
The alternative to all this ridiculousness? 
make sure you have absolutely nothing in common. 
I might not have any idea about regular dating advice, but here’s what to do if you want to continue enjoying your residential life: None of the same interests, none of the same activities, none of 
deal with the possibility that you might see your ex. the same friends, none of the same political or religious views is our suggestion. 
your pasta stir-fry will taste just as good. 
Not only will this strategy lead to a successful, healthy relationship, 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu 
but it will also minimize the possibility that you will ever see each other
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not 
after the inevitable breaking up. 
necessarily those of The Observer. 


By WILL NEAL 
Scene Writer 

“Bad news, everyone!” 
For the second time since its incep­tion, the beloved sci-fi animated comedy, “Futurama,” has been cancelled. 
While I’m sure most of you saw “Futurama” as just another ridiculous cartoon to overlook and let run its course, there are many out there (like myself) who have long-admired this show since its humble beginnings in 1999. But before a man named matt groening (The great and Powerful) brought this show to life, there was another beloved series of his that paved the way for “Futurama.” 
Back in the late 1980’s, groening was an aspiring cartoon artist and anima­tor with a fascination with the American family. After pitching some fun charac­ters and snagging a spot on the “Tracy ullman Show,” a primitive version of “The Simpsons” was born. 
After gaining popularity with his “Simpsons” shorts and signing a deal with FOX, the iconic, dysfunctional and yellow family was reincarnated onto the small screen once more, and the rest is history. 
Fast-forward to 1999, as groening’s team is about to make history once more with another award-winning concept. “What I’ve done to the American fam­ily with ‘The Simpsons,’” says groening, “we’re going to do to science fiction with ‘Futurama.’” 
That year, the world was introduced to a pizza delivery boy with a go-nowhere life named Phillip J. Fry, who on New years Eve is accidently (or not?) cryogeni­cally frozen until he’s awoken in the year 3000 and the “world of tomorrow.” 
Exploring the city of “New” New york (Why new? Because aliens annihilated the Old New york, of course), Fry real­izes his terrible life of the past is no more, and the world and new faces in front of him means a new start. Now, toss in a purple-haired and one-eyed beauty (Leela), an alcoholic and loud-mouthed robot (Bender), a 150-year-old mad sci­entist (Professor Farnsworth), a lobster/ crab monster with a Phd (dr. Zoidberg), a Jamaican bureaucrat (hermes) and a ditsy intern (Amy) and you’ve got yourself an animated force to be reckoned with: The Planet Express team. 
With Fry, Leela and Bender working for an intergalactic delivery company in or­der to fund Professor Farnsworth’s crazy inventions, there’s been a lot of fun to be had over these past 13 years. 
We’ve seen news-reporting monsters (“Prepare to exchange pleasantries!”), hypnotic toads, robotic after-life, giant Amazonian women/feminists, fossilized canines, Zapp Brannigan (“you want the rest of the cham-paggin?”), harlem globetrotters, a lot of aliens, plenty of time-traveling, a load of celebrities (well, the heads of celebrities) and Richard Nixon’s rise to becoming president of Earth. 
But while there has always been a fo­cus on comedic, out-of-control antics and storylines from the Fry and the gang, it’s the show’s intelligence, wit and heart that have really made “Futurama” the beloved animated series it’s become. The science is factual (mostly), the jokes are memorable and at the core of the show is the romance between Fry and Leela — the first continuous romantic arc on an animated series. 
It’s surprising and refreshing to find a cartoon that has the ability to be so deep. Episodes such as “godfellas” have ex­plored god, religion and the meaning of life, while storylines such as “Luck of the Fryish” and “The Sting” has shown audi­ences that the love of a family or the love between soul mates knows no bounds of time or space. Fans could agree that “Futurama” was something truly special. 
In 2003, however, the show was can-celled on FOX, but the Planet Express team managed continued to live on with a series of new dVd releases. 
After the success of these extended episodes, Comedy Central revived the series for another four seasons in 2008. While the new seasons featured several lack-luster plotlines, fans were joyous to see the return of their favorite interstel­lar travelers. Plus, four seasons after a five-year cancellation is nothing to shrug off. It stands as proof that these are char­acters that not only still keep audiences laughing, but also characters we still care for. 
Thankfully, the series ended with “meanwhile …,” an episode that tied up the loose ends of Fry and Leela’s romance in a beautiful way. While “Futurama” faces another cancellation, there’s still a crossover with “The Simpsons” planned for next year. And who knows? maybe another network will give this dysfunc­tional sci-fi crew another shot. until then, let’s remember “Futurama” for what it was: a show with humor, heart, mind and a never-ending strive to reach for the stars. 
Contact Will Neal at wneal@nd.edu 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Old traditions can be made new again 

Jack Hefferon 
Sports Writer 
It is said that Alexander the great cried when he looked upon his kingdoms, realizing that he had no more lands left to conquer. 
Fast forward 2,300 years, and many who control sports in the modern era have the same imperial ambi­tions. Rather than content themselves with regional or national dominance, com­missioners and owners are unable to rest on their lau­rels, constantly chasing the horizon. 
Over the last decade, we’ve seen Roger goodell and the NFL fall into this trap, as one game has taken place at Wembley Stadium in London each year since 2007. The league will double down with two games at Wembley this season, the second of which will involve the Jacksonville Jaguars. That game will be the first of four annual trips to London for the Jaguars, who couldn’t draw a crowd if One direction opened for them. 
The annual game of “American football” abroad has been a logistical night­mare for the teams involved, and has yet to gain much traction in Europe. 
But that has nothing on FIFA, which is attempting to take its biggest showcase into a soccer desert — and a literal desert as well. FIFA’s members voted to take the 2022 World Cup to Qatar, in spite of a report by FIFA itself that named Qatar as a “high risk” host. Qatar is the size of Connecticut, and tem­peratures can hit 130 degrees during the summer months, obstacles that seemed to be overlooked through semi-legal bribery. 
Qatar’s delegation has promised new technologies to cool stadiums, as well as ho­logram technology that can broadcast the game, live, into other stadiums around the world. (If that actually pans out, then my guess is the 2026 World Cup is hosted by the moon.) 
I’m no consulting major, nor did I have the stones to talk to any consulting firms at the Career Fair last night. But from an outsider’s perspec­tive, it’s easy to advise both the NFL and FIFA: you’re two of the world’s most powerful organizations. you have huge, continental footprints. Stick to your roots. 
That’s why it was so refresh­ing to see the International Olympic Committee get one right this week, as they spurned newer, more ex­otic sports in order to keep wrestling in the Olympics. Wrestling, which has been around the Olympics since 400 years before Alexander the great, squashed baseball, softball and, well, squash to remain a staple of the games, with the mandate of changing its rules to be more fast-paced and entertaining. 
Bringing back old traditions can be lucrative for sports industries, generating some­thing “new” from something that’s been around as long as the sport itself. The NhL has proved this by harken­ing back to the days of pond hockey with their Winter Classic showcases, and the NFL is doing the same by sending the Super Bowl to New york this year, ensuring that football’s premier game will be played in classic foot­ball weather. 
Too often leagues have channeled their inner Barney Stinson, blindly following the mantra that “newer is always better.” 
They need to learn that what is old can be made new again. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ASSOCIATED PRESS 

The veteran Texans battle back to shock Chargers 
Associated Press 

SAN dIEgO — Even when the houston Texans fell behind by three touchdowns on the road in the second half of their sea­son opener, matt Schaub and Andre Johnson remained confi­dent they could roar right back. 
Sure, the San diego Chargers were off to a solid start for their new coach. 
The veteran Texans know how to finish. 
Randy Bullock kicked a 41­yard field goal as time expired, and houston rallied from a 21-point deficit in the second half for a 31-28 victory over the Chargers on monday night. 
“Once you put a score on the board, then another, and the defense gets a stop, the big turn­over, it just builds,” said Schaub, who bounced back from an interception on houston’s first play to pass for 346 yards. “momentum keeps building, and you can feel that energy, and it’s contagious.” 
Brian Cushing returned an in­terception 18 yards for the tying touchdown with 9:30 to play for the Texans, who erased a 28-7 deficit late in the third quarter to spoil the debut of Chargers coach mike mcCoy. 
After two straight division ti­tles and playoff trips, the Texans have ample experience in han­dling trouble together. Schaub provided steady leadership, and their vaunted defense held San diego to 90 yards — just seven on the ground — in the second half. 
“There was no doubt in my mind that we were going to win that game,” said Johnson, who had 12 catches for 146 yards. “Even in the third quarter, we 

FOR RENT 

FOOTBALL RENTAL: Availability for all home games. Email nd-house@ sbcglobal.net 
IRISH CROSSINGS TOWNHOME for rent from ND Alum for 14-15 yr; 4 bdrm/3.5 bath; call/ text John 281-635-2019;email john. dimpel@raymondjames.com 
WANTED 

Looking for a trainer/running partner for a local high school girl cross-country runner 2-3 times per week. Would prefer runner ca­pable of running a 5K in 21 min­utes or less. Pay negotiable. Please call or text Ed at (574)309-7647 
didn’t come out playing that great, but we got it together and made it happen.” 
While the Chargers showed promise, the Texans began a season of Super Bowl aspira­tions with a gritty comeback befitting a defending two-time AFC South champion club that got off to an 11-1 start last season. 
Schaub recovered from that tipped interception on the first play to throw three Td passes — two to tight end Owen daniels 
— in the final game of the NFL’s opening weekend. 
Philip Rivers threw four touchdown passes in a tantaliz­ing start for the Chargers under mcCoy, the offensive guru hired to revitalize a stagnant fran­chise. San diego led 7-0 just 15 seconds in with a Td pass in its first play. 
But houston’s veteran tough­ness took over: The Texans’ powerful defense shut out San diego over the final 25 min­utes, and Schaub engineered the final 36-yard drive to set up Bullock, who coolly nailed his first NFL field goal. 
“I expected us to be in a dog­fight,” houston coach gary Kubiak said. “I’m disappointed with the way we played early, but we did not give up. ... We were mature enough to hang in there and get the win, so we have to be mature enough to know that we didn’t play very well.” 
San diego’s fans got a taste of mcCoy’s inventive offense 
— and they got an agonizing reminder of last season under fired coach Norv Turner, when the Chargers blew five halftime leads. In last year’s lowlight, San diego blew a 24-0 halftime lead in its last monday night game against mcCoy’s Broncos last October. 
“you lose this way, and it stings a little more,” Rivers said. “It’s disappointing we didn’t fin­ish the game, because we had control. you’ve got to play all four quarters.” 
Ryan mathews caught a 14­yard Td pass on San diego’s first snap, while Eddie Royal made two Td catches and Vincent Brown had another for the Chargers during an auspicious start in the first three quarters for mcCoy. 
“The effort was there,” mcCoy said. “They did a nice job. We just didn’t finish it. It comes down to not finishing a football game.” 
Cushing came up big in his first game since missing most of last season with a knee in­jury and then signing a six-year, $55.6 million extension last week. Rivers’ under-pressure throw was snagged by Cushing, who got up from his diving catch and rumbled into the end zone. 
Schaub finally got the Texans in position for Bullock, a fifth-round draft pick last year who missed all of his first season with a groin injury. 
The former Lou groza Award winner at Texas A&m didn’t miss, celebrating the kick with his new teammates and a vocal bunch of red-jerseyed fans who took over the sections behind houston’s bench. 
Schaub’s first pass was tipped into the air by Jarret Johnson, and 330-pound defensive tackle Cam Thomas gathered it in. The San diego crowd was still cheering when Rivers threw down the houston sideline to mathews, who dived in for a score. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
OKLAHOMA GAME. ND alum seeks 2 tickets. Phone Greg 319-541-2099 or 319-337-2244 
Want to make extra $$$$ with a neurotech company? Triple Domer needs a fluent Chinese-speaking student/grad student asap to assist in some translation work for a soon-to-launch company in China. Possible long term possibilities. Contact Dr. Fleming at kevin@kevinflemingphd. com 
PERSONAL 

Private Voice Lessons for Children and Adults. 574-256-9836 
Music Lessons: Guitar, Bass, Mandolin, Dulcimer, Autoharp, Ukulele. 574-256-9836 
“Ways to Go” -GroupLove 
“I didn’t ask for that You give me heart attack I didn’t want to care And then I saw you there Been working like a dog I turned all my dreams off I didn’t know my name I didn’t know my name (I got a little bit longer) I got a ways to go (I got a little bit longer) I got a ways to go (Oh I got a little bit longer) I got a ways to go-oh-oh Whoa oh oh (I got a ways to go) Even when I can’t see my rear view-Even if I call just to hear you Even when I sleep all day Even when I sleep all day Even if I wasn’t like I’m times two Living in the back of a bunk just like” 



SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles look to continue win streak 

By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
Sports Writer 
After back-to-back confer­ence wins this weekend, the Belles attempt to continue their streak against Olivet to­day at 7 p.m. in Olivet, mich. 
Saint mary’s (3-4, 2-1 mIAA) defeated Albion 3-1 on Friday and Alma 3-1 on Saturday to win their first conference matches of the season. 
Olivet (2-6, 1-2 mIAA) had a tough in-conference sched­ule last weekend. The Comets lost 3-0 to both No. 2 Calvin on Friday and No. 5 hope on Saturday. Belles coach Toni Elyea said playing ranked op­ponents is a good competitive opportunity. 
“Olivet had some great competition playing the top-ranked teams last week,” Elyea said. 


Elyea said Olivet sports some strong senior talent. Comets senior outside hitter Tina Westendorp leads Olivet with 65 kills through eight matches and averages 2.03 kills per set. 
Senior right side hitter Stefanie Lang has spiked 45 kills and anchors the Comets’ defense at the net with her blocking ability. 
“We know they will be strong at the net, as their numbers indicate that they have been blocking well,” Elyea said. “We know that is a strength of [Lang’s] on the right side, so our outsides will have to read the block and defense well in order to put points on the board.” 
Olivet blocks an average of 

2.02 hits per set, compared to 1.2 blocks per set for the 
Belles.  
Belles  hitters  pack  some  
punch  to  challenge  the  
Comets’  blocking,  however.  

Junior outside hitter Kati Schneider cruised past 100 kills when she recorded 16 against Alma (3-4, 0-3 mIAA). Schneider has crushed 105 kills on the season. Sophomore outside hitter Katie hecklinski and junior middle hitter melanie Kuczek round out the Belles’ top three offensive players with 69 and 60 hits, respectively. 
Kuczek also leads the Belles with six single blocks and 15 assists. 
Elyea said the most impor­tant focus for Saint mary’s right now is improving every day in the gym. Elyea stressed the importance of both indi­vidual and team work ethic. 
“We have been working very hard on what we need to do in order to be the best team we can be,” Elyea said. “Our Belles come into the gym ev­ery day with the intention to get better as individuals, so we can grow into the best team we can possibly be.” 
The Belles take on Olivet to­day at 7 p.m. in Olivet, mich. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2013 | NdSmCOBSERVER.COm 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Sanders looks toward strong senior season 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
In her Notre dame ca­reer, senior Britney Sanders has gone from an inconsis­tent freshman to a junior in the No. 1 singles spot. Now, Sanders is looking toward the opportunity to leave a lasting legacy on her teammates and her program in her final sea­son with the Irish. 
“I want to be remembered as someone who worked hard every practice and fought for every match,” Sanders said. “I want to be a good role model for my teammates.” 
Sanders may not be too far from her goal. Last sea­son, Sanders was named the Big East Player of the year, an honor she said was her proudest moment at Notre dame. 
After a disappointing fresh­man season during which she didn’t see the court of­ten, Sanders claimed the No. 4 singles spot as a sophomore and completed her climb to the top by taking the No. 1 singles spot for the majority of her junior season. 
Fellow senior Julie Sabacinski, who has played with Sanders since both girls were 15 years old, said she has seen Sanders grow tremendously as a player throughout college play. 
“She’s become much more 
“I want to be remembered as someone who worked hard every practice and fought for every match.” 
Britney Sanders 
Irish senior 
consistent compared to freshman year,” Sabacinski said of Sanders. “[Irish coach Jay Louderback] has done a great job working with her on her consistency. She’s stay­ing focused through the en­tire match and giving her all in every play.” 
Sabacinski said Sanders has become a strong role model for the entire squad. 
“She’s definitely taken on a leadership role,” Sabacinski said. “She works hard every time she hits the court and the other girls notice that.” 

Sanders said her devel­opment into a team leader resulted from her on-court experience and status as one of the team’s veteran players. 
“Seniors are always the role models of the team,” Sanders said. “I do my best to set good examples and push my teammates to be better than they were the day before.” 
Sabacinski said she be­lieves Sanders may have a fu­ture in the tennis world after her college career ends. 
“She has definitely ma­tured as a person and a player,” Sabacinski said. “I definitely think she has a fu­ture in tennis.” 
In the meantime, Sanders said she values being part of the Notre dame team for one last season. 
“my teammates are so awesome and so special to me,” Sanders said. “We have become a family.” 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


PAId AdVERTISEmENT 




Bandy 
CONTINuEd FROm PAgE 16 
threw himself into it and that takes a lot of belief.” 
Bandy agreed that the adjust­ment he made was mostly mental. 
“The biggest thing was main­taining focus in matches,” Bandy said. “I worked on not letting a [lost] point here or there get to me and keeping calm on the court. As I did that, I matured as a player and that led to me making that jump.” 
Sachire said he is looking to Bandy not only to play well, but also to pass on those lessons of maturity to the team’s younger players this season. 
“It’s not just that he has senior­ity,” Sachire said. “he’s had a lot of success on a high level. We want Ryan to continue to develop but also to be a mentor to the team in the locker room and show them what its mindset needs to be.” 
Another lesson Bandy can share is success off the court. A three-time Big East Academic All-Star and a management consulting major, Bandy has also excelled in the classroom. 
“It’s a matter of motivation and where you want to go,” Bandy said. “you have four years of college ten­nis, but then after that, what are you going to do? you need a good edu­cation, so now you have to be effi­cient and productive. Sometimes, you may not be able to do all the stuff you want to do, but you have to keep your priorities straight.” 
Bandy’s sacrifices have paid off, as he will return to his hometown of Cincinnati to work in banking after he graduates. 
But for now, he said his focus re­mains on the upcoming season. 
“We’d love for him to take anoth­er step and really lead the team,” Sachire said. “he’s playing the best tennis at the end of his career, and we’d love for him to keep progress­ing and make a big jump.” 
The Irish kick off their fall sched­ule Friday at the Olympia Fields Country Club Invitational in Olympia Fields, Ill. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


PAId AdVERTISEmENT 


MLB 
yankees top Orioles 

Associated Press 
BALTImORE — Alfonso Soriano hit two home runs, in­cluding a tiebreaking shot in the eighth inning, and the New york yankees rallied past the Baltimore Orioles 7-5 Tuesday night to end a six-game losing streak at Camden yards. 
mark Reynolds also homered for the yankees, who won for the second time in six games to bolster their postseason hopes. New york still trails Tampa Bay, Baltimore and Cleveland in the hunt for the final AL wild-card slot. 
Chris davis hit his major league-leading 49th home run for the Orioles and raised his RBI total to 126. Baltimore led 4-1 in the fifth inning before faltering. 
Soriano and Reynolds launched the comeback with solo homers in the sixth off Baltimore starter miguel gonzalez. 
Alex Rodriguez led off the eighth with a double against rookie Kevin gausman (2-5) and Robinson Cano delivered an RBI single. Soriano followed with a two-run shot to center, his 15th homer in 43 games since New york reacquired him in a July 26 trade with the Chicago Cubs. Successive doubles by Curtis granderson and Reynolds off Francisco Rodriguez made it 7-4. 
Adam Warren (2-2) pitched a perfect seventh, Shawn Kelley gave up a sacrifice fly to matt Wieters in the eighth and mariano Rivera got four straight outs for his 650th ca­reer save. 


Football 
CONTINuEd FROm PAgE 16 
“regional rivalry” and ended with the Chicken dance, the Irish travel to Purdue to take on the in­state Boilermakers. 
Kelly, who last week waffled on whether michigan was a rival or not, wasted no time in calling the Boilermakers (1-1) rivals. 
“I think any time that you’re playing a team in-state, there’s certainly a recognition of that as a rivalry game,” he said. 
Kelly did, however, say the Irish were more focused on themselves than Purdue after a “stinging loss” to michigan. 
“Purdue’s going to be ready for Notre dame,” he said. “We have no doubt about that and we re­spect our opponent.  But, look, we’ve got to put blinders on and we’ve got to focus on ourselves. We’re not a finished product. We’ve got some work to do.” 
The Irish have played Purdue 84 times and have beaten the Boilermakers five consecutive times. 
“I don’t want to minimize the fact that we’re playing Purdue, because I think that we clearly understand who they are as a Big Ten opponent, somebody within our state, and the natural rivalry because we’ve played so much,” he said. 
Zaire still not cleared 
Freshman quarterback malik Zaire has still not been cleared for contact, Kelly said. 
Zaire, who was suffering from mononucleosis, has been held out of the last two games. 
Senior receiver Luke massa will serve as the emergency third-string quarterback until Zaire returns. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 




Brown 
CONTINuEd FROm PAgE 14 
Although Brown scored just one goal in the 2012 season, the forward has been helping the Irish for some time, Clark said. 
“I think the only game he missed last year was the final of the Big East [Championship], and that was because he was in­jured,” Clark said. “So he maybe didn’t score as many [goals], but he was a major, major player last year also.” 
Brown, who spent six weeks of the summer study­ing abroad in the Notre dame London program, said he made some adjustments to his game over the sum­mer after playing informally with his cousin, who lives in London. 
“It was a new experience, which helped kind of change my mind-set positionally,” Brown said. “And coming back, playing with the guys here, you really get into a groove before the season. I’m just really hungry to get something done this year.” 
Brown, who is a marketing major, took classes in mar­keting and the history of the British Empire during his time in England. he said he enjoyed the opportunity to soak in the fanaticism that surrounds soccer in Europe. 
“I took a weekend trip to Barcelona, and it was just amazing there,” Brown said. 
“The  way  that  they  love  
their  FC  Barcelona,  their  
main  team, is pretty crazy.  

If we had that [support] in America, [soccer] would be a lot more fun.” 
Brown also said he en­joys watching international footballers and studying their play. he listed French international and current New york Red Bulls forward Thierry henry and Barcelona forward Lionel messi among his favorites. 
“hopefully I can see him play with the Red Bulls sometime,” Brown said of henry, who he described as “clinical.” “That’d be a dream of mine, to see him play in person.” 

But right now, Brown hopes he’s created a few more soc­cer fans. 
“I made a lot of new friends [in the London program], a lot of people that I prob­ably would not have known,” Brown said. “I got some people to come to the game [against uNC]. hopefully they’ll come back for some more games.” 
Brown’s teammates and coaches certainly hope he’ll create a few more highlights for Irise fans. 
“I think it’s exciting that he’s playing well, and I just hope that this continues right through,” Clark said. “And I’m sure it will, I’m confident Leon’s going to have a good senior year.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

PAId AdVERTISEmENT 
PAId AdVERTISEmENT 



CROSSWORD | WILL ShORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChRISTOPhER BRuCKER 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | RAgO & PATRICK CROSS 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | ThE mEPhAm gROuP 


HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ryan Phillippe, 39; Colin Firth, 53; Amy Irving, 60; Joe Perry, 63. 
Happy Birthday: you have more options than you realize. Expand your interests and take on extra responsibilities that will allow you to add to your resume. Look at the big picture and don’t be afraid to express your ideas and to offer your expertise. Establish your position aggressively, pursue your goals, and work diligently to stabilize your personal, financial and professional future. your numbers are 4, 11, 15, 26, 34, 40, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): What you want and what you need are not the same. don’t allow anyone to guilt you into spending to prove your love or dedication. Speak up for your rights and begin making travel plans.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Love problems are likely to arise due to a situation be­ing blown out of proportion. If someone begins to overreact, you are best to lay out the facts in a diplomatic manner and carry on with your day. Avoid hasty decisions and arguments.  


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): home, friends and socializing will all lead to an interest­ing revelation regarding someone you find inspiring. A work relationship based on a creative connection will bring about a chance to try something new. Love and romance will bring you happiness.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Say less and do more. you may be torn between what someone wants and what you can afford to do. Put greater emphasis on bringing a unique and interesting alternative to an opportunity that can alter your life or a friendship.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): An emotional challenge must not be allowed to take over. Call in favors or schedule your time so that you can take care of situations as they arise. don’t leave anything to chance. use your imagination and skills to find solu­tions.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Check in with people you have worked with in the past. A new development will create an opportunity that interests you. Partnerships formed now will be unique. get what’s being offered in writing. Security should be your first concern.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Welcome change and turn each new adventure into an interesting prospect. mix and match the past and present plans to come up with the perfect set of circumstances. don’t fold under pressure or give away too much. Equality should be your goal. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be receptive to different philosophies and ways of do­ing things. your ability to mix the old with the new, coupled with your uniqueness and vivid imagination to offer something special, will be well received. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The information you pick up while participating in a cause will help you meet people willing to include you in a money-making plan. your financial intake, as well as your living conditions, can improve.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t take on any personal debt or meddle in emo­tional situations that can cost you a good friendship. Listen, but don’t voice your opinion or take sides. you would be wise to mind your own business and focus on your responsibilities. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A change in the way you earn your living or what you learn that will ensure a bright future is apparent. Believe in your ability to excel at whatever task you are given and you will make a noteworthy impression. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you will pick up unusual ideas if you get involved in functions related to work or a plan you want to pursue. you will find a solution to a financial slowdown that will get you back in the game.  


Birthday Baby: you are compassionate, courageous and insightful. you strive for peace and equality. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNuREK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
Name  

Address 

City State Zip 

FOOTBALL 

Balancing act 
Irish coach Brian Kelly defends his strategy against Michigan 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Assistant managing Editor 
It appears No. 21 Notre dame was thinking outside of the box during its 41-30 loss to No. 11 michigan on Saturday night. 
When the Wolverines (2-0) loaded the box with eight men, the Irish (1-1) opted to throw over the defense instead of rushing the ball. Irish senior quarterback Tommy Rees threw the ball 51 times while Notre dame only ran the ball 19 times. 
during his weekly press confer­ence Tuesday, Irish coach Brian Kelly defended the strategy Notre dame used Saturday. 
“If the box is plus-one and plus-two, there’s not much of a running game,” he said. “And then we got behind. We were down two scores  We had to speed the game up and throw the football.” 
Rees finished 29-for-51 for 314 yards with two touchdowns and two interceptions. The Irish ran for just 96 yards. 
“Look, I want balance just like everybody else in America wants balance,” Kelly said. “But look, we have to throw the ball effec­tively when we are called upon to throw the ball and we have to run the ball effectively when we are called upon to run effectively.” 
Kelly said if teams continue to stack the box to stop the stable Irish running backs, he will call on Rees to beat them. 
“I would welcome it every sin­gle week,” he said. “I’m very con­fident that if you want to play us that way, we’re going to beat you, and that’s just fine with me. 
“I have absolutely no ques­tion in my mind that if you want to play us that way, with Tommy Rees, you will pay for it.” 
Another rivalry? 
After a week that started with 
see FOOTBALL PAGE 14 


MEN’S SOCCER 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Bandy enters final 
Brown leads Irish offense 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The three goals scored by No. 4 Notre dame so far this season have all had some­thing in common: Each goal was struck by senior forward Leon Brown. 
The mattapan, mass., prod­uct has scored three goals in three games for the Irish (1­0-2, 0-0-1 ACC), including the equalizer in the 79th minute of Notre dame’s 1-1 home draw with then-No. 1 North Carolina on Sunday. “I just feel like I had a lot to prove,” Brown said. “I didn’t really have a lot of goals last year, so I wanted to make sure to help the team as much as I can. 
“Being a forward, scoring goals is what you have to do, so I think my mentality is just doing whatever I can to help the team.” 
Irish coach Bobby Clark said he’s pleased that his striker is playing so well in every facet of the game.“he’s connecting passes, he’s com­bining with other players” Clark said of Brown. “he’s looking very sharp, very alert.” 
see BROWN PAGE 14 

season confident 

By GREG HADLEY 
Sports Writer 
When the Irish played Louisville in the Big East Championship in April, se­nior Ryan Bandy was one of the key players who pushed the team to a 4-0 sweep over the Cardinals and to the con­ference crown. 
Bandy won his doubles match with former Irish player Spencer Talmadge and then came back to take his singles match as well. For the Cincinnati native, the Big East title was the culmi­nation of a season that saw him turn the corner and start consistently for the Irish 
Now, Bandy wants to con­tinue that success and be­come a leader for the Irish on and off the court. 
“I want to come out and work hard every day, that’s the most important thing,” Bandy said. “We have a great group of guys who have a chance to do something spe­cial, and I want to go out there and make the team better. 
Short term, I want to improve 
Observer File Photo 
myself, but long term, you 
Irish senior forward Leon Brown heads the ball during Notre Dame’s 
want to the team to go deep in 
3-1 victory over Akron on Sept. 9, 2012. 

the NCAA [Championship], in the ACC Tournament. It’s exciting.” 
Bandy, however, wasn’t al­ways a leader for Notre dame. In his freshman and sopho­more seasons, Bandy rarely played as one of the top six singles and was almost never included in the team’s dou­bles matches. 
It wasn’t until the spring of his junior year that Bandy became a consistent starter for both singles and doubles. Last season, Bandy com­piled an 8-4 record in singles matches and an 11-8 record in doubles. 
Irish coach Ryan Sachire said the change in Bandy was mostly mental. 
“he’s done an extraordi­nary job of developing his physical strength,” Sachire said of Bandy. “But, no ques­tion Ryan’s biggest develop­ment is in his self-belief and self-confidence. his fresh­man year, there were some doubts in his mind whether or not he could make an im­pact at this level. Something clicked last fall, and he really 
see BANdy PAGE 13 




