

The observer | FRiday, SEPTEMBER 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

COMMENTaRy 
no place to hide in michigan stadium 


Jack Hefferon 
sports Writer 
The dress rehearsal went off smoothly enough. some bumps here, some early kinks to work out there. 
but saturday night, the curtain will truly rise on the 2013 Irish. And if past trips to Ann Arbor are any indi­cation, some theatrics will probably ensue. 
The big house will be packed, and the bright lights will be on once again. Two years ago, they were turned on in michigan stadium for the first time, and most of the midwest turned out for the show. 
Those lights will expose brian Kelly’s squad, one way or another. They got the compulsory result against Temple, but the process could use some work. The offense showed its ability to hit home runs, but its stable of running backs struggled at times to grind out yards. 
The defense is as deep as it has ever been but showed some rust at every level last week. And the kicking game is still a Touchdown Jesus-sized question mark, which is exactly the opposite of what you want in a hostile, primetime environment. 
The opponent will be ready and pose a challenge that will give the Irish ev­erything they can handle. vegas has the Wolverines as three-and-a-half point favorites, which by the stan­dard bettor’s rule of thumb for home field advantage (part of any good Irish catholic education), means these teams are about as even as they come. 
career antagonist denard robinson was vanquished in his final act last year, but now michigan returns with devin Gardner, who can run nearly as well as robinson 
— and can actually throw the ball, too. 
michigan’s defense has several new faces and will attack the Irish in ways they haven’t seen before, forcing rees and new play-caller chuck martin to adjust on the fly. And even if notre dame can handle the 11 Wolverines on the field, there will still be over 100,000 of them to deal with in the stands. 
most of the focus this week has been on how to classify the notre dame-michigan rivalry, or whether it is even a rivalry at all. (It is a rivalry, and it’s one of notre dame’s top two. moving on.) 
but it doesn’t matter if saturday is notre dame’s last trip to the big house, what the history of the two schools is, or who is chickening out of what. saturday’s game matters — not because of the series’ past or future — be­cause it’s all about this year. 
can the Irish offense take care of the football? can the defense contain an explosive dual threat? And can this year’s Irish squad show that last season’s success was no f luke? 
We’ll get those answers saturday, in notre dame’s first big opportunity of the year to show what it can be. 
‘Gameday’ and the esPn cameras will be out in Ann Arbor. A small country will be packed in the stands. A top-20 opponent will be wait­ing on the field. And those lights, exposing and illumi­nating, will be shined down on the Irish once again. 
It’s showtime. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

RECRuiTiNg 


Teams stake reputations on high-profile matchup 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
on sunday, Irish coach brian Kelly downplayed the impor­tance of the michigan-notre dame rivalry. on Tuesday, Kelly similarly dialed down the discussion of a recruiting ri­valry between the two midwest programs. 
“When you’re recruiting na­tionally and you’re out, michigan is going to be there in the recruit­ing process for us, but we’ll see the West coast, we’ll see the south,” Kelly said at his weekly press conference. “I mean, I don’t know that michigan shows up more than any one school because we’re all over the coun­try. It’s a blend of virtually all the schools throughout the country.” 
Irish recruiting expert mike Frank spoke before Kelly’s news conference Tuesday and echoed the same sentiment. Frank said he doesn’t believe the rivalry is as important to head-to-head recruiting battles between notre dame and michigan. 
“It’s been interesting when you talk about this game. I think really before it was a lot more important in the grand scheme of things when you talk about recruiting and going head-to­head with players,” said Frank, who runs the esPn-affiliated Irish sports daily. “I don’t think notre dame and michigan go head-to-head for a lot of players nearly as much as they used to. Why that is? I think notre dame has broadened their base a little bit and tried to get players from all over the country.” 
While the rivalry may not be ramped-up within the region, Frank said he believes the per­formance of each team in prime­time can be helpful in the same national recruiting picture to which Kelly alluded. 
“Where I do think [the rivalry game] matters is you’ve got two big, traditional schools going head-to-head and both are ex­tremely respected programs,” michiah Quick and Florida de­fensive tackle Anthony moten, as well as those who have not ex­pressed any interest. 
“February is still a long ways away and, at this time last year, [freshman safety] max redfield and [former Irish commit] eddie vanderdoes weren’t on the radar,” Frank said. “opportunities open up with other teams. There may be other prospects that aren’t on the radar right now. I think those are the kinds of things that mat­ter for 2014.” 
As for the class of 2015, sunday was a big day in recruiting even though there were no commit­ments or decommitments to or from notre dame. 
With the calendar flipping to september, communication is now allowed with prospects in the class of 2015. coaches may send personalized letters to re­cruits and are allowed to reply to and send e-mails to high school juniors. 
As it stands now, notre dame has received just one commit­ment from the class of 2015. offensive lineman Jerry Tillery, a 6-foot-7, 312-pound tackle from shreveport, La., pledged to the Irish on June 22nd. esPn rates Tillery as the 18th-best tackle and the 205th-best overall player in the nation. 
Frank said saturday’s contest with michigan will go a long way toward sculpting the opinions of other prospects in the junior class. 
“right now those prospects are forming their opinions on where they think notre dame is headed as far as the direction of the program,” he said. “Was last year a one-season fluke or is this a legitimate top-10 program at this point? I think these types of games kind of validate people’s opinions on where notre dame is as a program.” 
Frank said notre dame sim­ply has not extended offers to a great deal of 2015 prospects yet. one player with an Irish offer, however, is minnesota defensive end Jashon cornell. esPn rates cornell, who hails from the same school (cretin-derham hall high school) that produced for­mer Irish receiver michael Floyd and current freshman receiver James onwualu, as the no. 1 overall player in the nation. 
Though cornell is expected to visit michigan this weekend, Frank said the Irish still have a strong shot at landing the 6-foot­3, 245-pounder. Frank mentioned how Floyd and Irish freshman of­fensive lineman steve elmer took visits to notre dame opponents when they were being recruited by both schools, watched notre dame lose and ended up com­mitting to the Irish anyway. 
“Jashon cornell is a tremen­dous prospect and notre dame has a really, really good shot with him but I think when you’re the no. 1 prospect, or certainly one of the top defenders in the country, you’re going to have a whole lot of teams coming after you,” Frank said. “but you know he’ll be down for a notre dame game as well and we’ll just have to see how it plays out, but I think notre dame is in real good shape with him.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 


Want to cover Notre Dame football? Want to sit in the press box? Write for Sports. 
Email Mike Monaco at 
jmonaco@nd.edu 
Frank said. “And I think it mat­ters a lot to people who are inter­ested in maybe leaving home and looking at a school like michigan or notre dame. If they see that notre dame can beat another big-time regional school, it kind of validates the choice to attend there. 
“so I think even more than bragging rights, it has to do with how each school is perceived and the direction each program is headed.” 
Frank said he expects saturday’s game to have a major impact on recruits in the class of 2014 as well as the class of 2015. The class of 2014 already has 16 commitments, but Frank said the game could impact seniors from across the nation, including those already interested in notre dame like california athlete 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRiday, SEPTEMBER 6, 2013 | The observer 



By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 

It’s a few minutes after 6 
p.m. on Wednesday. Practice is wrapping up. 
The sound system blasts b.o.b’s “magic” and Joan Jett & the blackhearts’ “I Love rock ‘n’ roll.” Players begin to filter out from the Labar Practice complex. 
After about five minutes, most of the players have filtered out and the music stops. The only sounds are those of a few scattered stu­dents, chatting away, as they walk around the east side of campus. 
Fifteen minutes pass. There’s still a group of Irish players, including the of­fensive line, out practicing on the field in relative si­lence. The autograph hounds have left. There’s no longer a need for the ushers directing traffic. 
Around 6:25, the offensive linemen make their way off the field. 
Graduate student offen­sive tackle Zack martin leads them. 
Leading on the fly 

martin can’t pinpoint ex­actly when he first captained a team or led a group in school. but he knows it hap­pened in middle school. And it continued in high school. 
martin, now in his fifth season with the Irish and with 40 consecutive starts under his belt, is the 18th two-time captain in the his­tory of notre dame football. martin said he hasn’t had the time to fully sit back and think about the importance of being one of just 18 players with that distinction, but he feels honored. 
“It was right before the [season-opening] game so we just kind of got every­thing going, but after last year you get a chance to kind of sit back and find out how much of an honor it actually is when you meet some for­mer guys who have been in that position,” martin said. “To have the opportunity to do it a second time is even more of an honor, to have the opportunity to lead this team and hopefully to a successful season.” 
but martin said his leadership started long be­fore these past two years. 
“I’d say when I got here af­ter a couple years of playing I was definitely more of an example guy, just try to go out there and do everything at 100 miles an hour and try to get the younger guys to see what it takes to be a starter, to be a good player,” martin said. “over time, you know, I’m still that same guy but I try to add the vocal part, es­pecially being a captain.” 
Fellow graduate student offensive lineman chris Watt has literally been martin’s right-hand man for the past two years. In 2011 and 2012, Watt started all 26 games at left guard, while martin manned left tackle. over those two seasons, Watt said he has seen a similar growth in martin. 
“he’s always been a leader. he’s been more of a quiet leader, leader by example in the previous years when he’s first starting out because it’s kind of hard to be that vo­cal guy when you’re start­ing out as a freshman or a sophomore,” Watt said. “he’s really developed these last two years becoming a bigger leader for the team vocally and also continuing to do that on the field as well.” 
Junior center nick martin joins his older brother on the offensive line. nick, who is in his first season as a starter, said he saw Zack’s leadership from day one. 
“my freshman year, I re­member the first padded practice of camp, [Zack] broke down the whole team,” nick said. “he was only a red-shirt sophomore at the time. I was really surprised. he was an underclassman and he was breaking down the whole team. That’s when I re­ally knew how good he was going to be.” 
Leading in the quiet 

It’s still remarkably qui­et outside the Guglielmino Athletic complex, where the rest of the squad has reached the locker room. some play­ers have left entirely. others have already begun talking to the media. 
Zack and the rest of the of­fensive line make their way toward the brick building, the spotlight completely off them. After all, it’s still three days away from saturday’s rivalry game with michigan. 
martin walks into the Gug quietly, occasionally making small talk with teammates and laughing softly. martin said his leadership is differ­ent during the week, away from the bright lights and loudness of a game day. 
“during the week, you’re trying to go the entire day full-go,” he said. “And during the week I’d say it’s a lot more [leading by] example because you’re trying to show the younger guys how to prepare for a game and how hard you really have to go to be ready for a game.” 
during the dog days of summer, all of the work is behind the scenes. coaches are not allowed to have con­tact with their players for the eight designated weeks of voluntary summer con­ditioning activities. That’s when martin stepped up to do his leading by example, in between and around summer classes. 
“We didn’t have class in the afternoons so we would come in and work out [ear­ly],” martin said. “Freshman year it’s crazy. You’ve got to come in to study hall, class­es. so they wouldn’t work out until later, about 4:00. so me, chris Watt and the older guys kind of just took it upon us to stay after we worked out and work those freshmen out. 
“We had five freshmen of­fensive linemen. It’s a very talented group. That’s one of the main things [offensive line] coach [harry] hiestand taught us when he got here was we do things together and we don’t leave anyone else behind.” 
As far away from the spot­light as martin and his fellow linemen were, the story made its way back to Irish head coach brian Kelly. 
“The stories that I’ve heard this summer, absolutely incredible,” Kelly said of martin at media day Aug. 22. “… That just does not hap­pen. but because of him, he’s been able to up the play of all of our younger players 
Graduate student offensive    
lineman Zack Martin will line 

up against the Wolverines for the final time in his career Saturday. 
Observer File Photo 

exponentially. so he’s made others around him better.” 
In addition to making others better, martin him­self has constantly im­proved. In each of the past three seasons, the 6-foot-4, 308-pounder has won notre dame’s offensive Lineman of the Year award. Following the 2012 campaign, martin was named a second-team All-American by the Walter camp Foundation. 
“he’s in a very small per­centage of players that play this game that has the ability to do what he does on a daily basis,” hiestand said at me­dia day. “And there are a lot of people that can lead from time to time when it feels convenient or when it feels good or you’re having a good day, but Zack brings it every day and that’s what sets him apart and makes him such a unique and special player. 
“he’s the picture of what an All-American is. he’s an All-American football player and offensive lineman that has all the abilities and skills that you look for to say, ‘that’s the example of what we want to accomplish.’” 
Leading loudly 
As perfect an example as martin may be, and as quiet as it might be for martin and the offensive line during the week, everything changes as the decibel levels increase on saturdays. martin himself said he invokes a completely different leadership style. Leading by example is no longer enough. 
“on saturday, you’ve got a lot of things to worry about, so it’s more of a vo­cal leadership,” martin said. “obviously, you’re trying to do your job and people are looking at that, but definite­ly more of the vocal side on saturdays.” 
martin said while the coaches handle the team-wide, pre-game speeches, he shares his own words with his fellow offensive linemen. 
“It’s different each week,” martin said. “but we always break down on ‘Together.’ basically, the gist of it is be­ing together and playing to­gether today.” 
After that speech on saturday, martin and the rest of the offensive line will head out of the tunnel to take the field at michigan stadium 






HEAD TO 
ON ABC 
LAUREN FRITZ | The Observer JOHN NING | The Observer 


iRiSH PaSSiNg 
senior quarterback Tommy rees was im­pressive in notre dame’s season opener, throwing for 346 yards, three touchdowns and — most importantly — zero intercep­tions. The Irish showed an ability to stretch the field for long gainers, with rees lobbing throws down the sidelines to let his receivers make plays on the ball. senior TJ Jones has been praised by Irish coach brian Kelly as one of the best receivers in the college game, and he has showed early signs of being a po­tential go-to guy for notre dame on offense. 
The Wolverines secondary is much younger after losing four-year starter Jordan Kovacs at safety, and senior safety and cap­tain courtney Avery is questionable for saturday as he tries to return from knee surgery. redshirt sophomore safety blake countess is also returning from a knee sur­gery that cost him all of last season, and will face his first real test on saturday. michigan’s corners average 5-foot-10 and 180 pounds, which could open opportunities for rees to let Irish receivers daniel smith and corey robinson — both of whom are 6-foot-4 — win jump-ball battles outside.
     EdgE: NOTRE daME 
iRiSH RuSHiNg 
notre dame has already trotted out five viable running backs this season, and a bal­anced workload resulted in nearly 200 yards rushing last week against Temple. George Atkinson is a threat to break free on every play, and Amir carlisle and cam mcdaniel showed they can take some of the workload as well. The most important man in the run game may be left tackle Zack martin, who along with left guard and fellow senior chris Watt can be expected to clear a path on near­ly every play. 
michigan held notre dame to 94 yards on 31 carries last season, and allowed the Irish just one rush over 10 yards. Linebacker Jake ryan was huge in that effort, and led the team in tackles last season, but will miss the first half of the 2013 season with an AcL tear. The Wolverines will attempt to make up for that loss with an improved front line that in­cludes senior defensive tackle Jibreel black 
—
 whom Kelly tried to recruit at cincinnati 

—
 and junior Frank clark, a former safety who bulked up and moved down to play de­fensive end. 




Andrew Gastelum 
editor-in-chief 

This is a rivalry game, there shouldn’t be any doubt about it. To some of the coaches, maybe not (or may­be it’s just pure mind games), but to anyone who has come through notre dame or michigan in the last 20 years there has hardly been a game that is as antici­pated as this one. 
There is no more denard to terrorize Te’o. There is no more Te’o to terrorize denard. 
no more stars. now it just comes down to fundamen­tals, strategy and who hates the other more. It’s going to be a tough defensive struggles and a battle between the defensive minds of defensive coordinators bob diaco and Greg mattison. 
It’s the last time at the big house for a while, so I’m expecting a big finish. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 24, michigan 23 

no matter how prepared michigan is for the Irish run game, notre dame’s ability to put in fresh legs in the fourth quarter (and thanks to their new pistol formation, have them run downhill more than ever) should be a huge advantage late in the game.
     EdgE: NOTRE daME 
iRiSH OFFENSiVE COaCHiNg 
Last week, for the first time in his career, brian Kelly did not call his offense’s plays. That task was delegated to offensive coordi­nator chuck martin and the transistion was seamless, as the Irish gained over 350 yards in the first half alone. notre dame’s foray into the pistol offense looked to be an early success, as well. 
however, Wolverines defensive coordina­tor Greg mattison is a former coordinator of the baltimore ravens famed defense, and engineered a unit that allowed the Irish just 13 points after six michigan turnovers last year.
     EdgE: EVEN 
iRiSH SPECiaL TEaMS 
The Irish entered the season with an open kicking competition between nick Tausch and Kyle brindza, only to have both placekickers miss their attempts last week. Kelly has yet to declare a winner, leaving doubt around the position that could decide saturday’s game. brindza has taken over punting duties as well this season, and has shown off his strong leg but not much con­trol as of yet. George Atkinson is dangerous on every kickoff return, and TJ Jones has brought a previously unheard of spark to punt returns.
 EdgE: MiCHigaN 
iRiSH SCHEduLE (1-0) 
Aug. 31 Temple  W 28-6 sept. 7 @ Michigan sept. 14 @ Purdue sept. 21 Michigan State sept. 26 Oklahoma oct. 5 vs. Arizona State oct. 19 USC oct. 26 @ Air Force nov. 2 Navy nov. 9 @ Pittsburgh nov. 23 BYU nov. 30 @ Stanford 



(Sr.) Austin Collinsworth 

S
(so.) elijah shumate 22 
(Gr.) Dan Fox 
(Jr.) Jarrett Grace 
(Gr.) Carlo Calabrese 
(sr.) Kendall moore 
(Jr.) Matthias Farley

S
(Jr.) eilar hardy 16 

(Gr.) Nick Tausch
 (Jr.) Kyle brindza 
(Jr.) Kyle Brindza
 (Gr.) Alex Wulfeck 
(Sr.) TJ Jones
 (Jr.) Amir carlisle 



Matthew DeFranks 
Assistant managing editor 
Is this game going to be an offensive explo­sion? Is it going to be a defensive struggle? I have no idea, and neither do you. 
devin Gardner is a relative unknown as it re­lates to notre dame fans and the Irish faithful are hopeful he is not a denard robinson clone. The good news is that Gardner is not at all like robinson. The bad news is that he is a better passer than robinson could have ever dreamed of. 
The Irish defense was not at their best last week despite allowing just a single touchdown to a dismal Temple offense. They need to be better against the Wolverines and I think they will be. FINAL SCORE: notre dame 27, michigan 17 

(Sr.) TJ Jones (Fr.) corey robinson (Jr.) DaVaris Daniels (sr.) daniel smith  
(Jr.) George Atkinson(Jr.) Amir carlisle (Sr.) Tommy Rees (sr.) Andrew hendrix  3 12  RB QB  (Gr.) Zack Martin (Fr.)  hunter bivin (Gr.) Chris Watt (so.) mark harrell (Jr.) Nick Martin (Jr.) matt hegarty  



(Sr.) Christian Lombard
 (Jr.) conor hanratty 
(So.) Ronnie Stanley
 (Fr.) steve elmer 
(Jr.) Troy Niklas 
(Jr.) ben Koyack 
(So.) Chris Brown
 (Fr.) James onwualu 
(So.) KeiVarae Russell (sr.) Lo Wood 23 CB  
59 ILB 8 ILB  (Fr.) Jaylon Smith(Jr.) ben councell 30 OLB (So.) Sheldon Day(Fr.) Isaac rochell 90 DE (Sr.) Louis Nix (sr.) Kona schwenke 96 NG (Jr.) Stephon Tuitt(so.) Jarron Jones 94 DE (Sr.) Prince Shembo (Jr.) Ishaq Williams 11 OLB  
(Sr.) Bennett Jackson (Fr.) cole Luke  36 CB  










27  PK  (Jr.) Kyle Brindza  
98  P  (Jr.) George Atkinson(Jr.) cam mcdaniel  
3  PR  (So.) Scott Daly  





KO 
33 



KR LS



Mike Monaco 
sports editor 
This isn’t 2012. And this isn’t 2011. Last year was a de­fensive struggle, and 2011 was a ... well, I think most notre dame students remember that. 
The 2013 rendition of the “rivalry” will be somewhere in between. neither team will score like 2011 and michigan won’t throw another five interceptions this year. 
but the game will again be close. At this point, the of­fenses are still a toss-up. The Irish offense — though it struggled to convert yards into points against Temple — still racked up 543 yards against the owls, while michigan put 59 points and 463 yards on the board against central michigan. 
on defense, notre dame brings back eight starters to michigan’s five, and bob diaco will dial up the right calls to do enough to thwart devin Gardner. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 21, michigan 20 



WR
88 

WR
87 

57 
LT 

75 
LG 

77 
C 

65 
RG 

79 
RT 

TE
18 

17 
WR 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRiday, SEPTEMBER 6, 2013 | The observer 




O HEAD 

8:00 P.M. MICHIGAN STADIUM 
NO. 17 MICHIGAN 


Blake Countess (Jr.) 
CB 
8 channing stribling (Fr.) 

James Ross III (So.) 
WLB 
52 royce Jenkins-stone (so.) 


Thomas Gordon (R-Sr.) 
Frank Clark (Jr.) SS 
14 Josh Furman (sr.) 

DE 
53 mario ojemudia (so.) 


Quinton Washington (R-Sr.) 
NT 
56 ondre Pipkins (so.) 

Desmond Morgan (Jr.) 


MLB 
35 Joe bolden (so.) 
Jibreel Black (Sr.) 

DT 
96 ryan Glasgow (so.) 


Keith Heitzman (Jr.) 
Jarrod Wilson (So.) 

DE 
FS
99 matt Godin (so.) 
34 Jeremy clark (so.) 

Cam Gordon (R-Sr.) 
SLB 
97 brennen beyer (Jr.) 


Raymon Taylor (Jr.) 
CB 
24 delonte hollowell (Jr.) 

Jehu Chesson (R-Fr.) 

WR 
17 Jeremy Jackson (sr.) 

Drew Dileo (Sr.) 

WR 
23 dennis norfleet (so.) 

Michael Schofield (R-Sr.) 

RT 
78 erik magnuson (r-Fr.) 


Fitzgerald Toussaint (R-Sr.) 
Kyle Kalis (R-Fr.) 
RB

RG 
56 Joey burzynski (r-Jr.) 27 derrick Green (Fr.) 


Devin Gardner (R-Jr.) 
Jack Miller(R-So.) 
QB

C 
56 Joey burzynski(r-Jr.) 7 shane morris (Fr.) 

Graham Glasgow (R-So.) 

LG 
58 chris bryant (r-so.) 

Taylor Lewan (R-Sr.) 

LT 
71 ben braden (r-Fr.) 

Devin Funchess (So.) 

TE 
84 A.J. Williams (so.) 

Jeremy Gallon (R-Sr.) 

WR 
85 Joe reynolds (r-sr.) 


Matt Wile (Jr.) 

Brendan Gibbons (R-Sr.) 

KO 
PK 
45 matt Wile (Jr.) 
Dennis Norfleet (So.) 

Matt Wile (Jr.) 

KR 
P
9 drew dileo (sr.) 91 Kenny Allen (r-Fr.) 


Dennis Norfleet (So.) 
Jareth Glanda (R-Sr.) 

LS 
PR 

9 drew dileo (sr.) 

Notre Dame vs. Temple 


Joseph Monardo 
Associate sports editor 
both teams impressed against vastly inferior com­petition in week one, but now it is time to see how good the respective teams actually are. based on what the Irish showed last week, the defense could struggle mightily against senior quarterback devin Gardner should he manage to escape the pressure in the pocket and improvise with his feet. 
however, this is still (at least in part) the Irish de­fense that kept opponents out of the end zone as if the glory of mary depended on it last year and last week held Temple to only six points even in a vastly imperfect performance. Touchdowns will be hard to come by for both teams, but rees and TJ Jones will come up with some big plays while the recently be­leaguered Irish kicking game steps up. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 20, michigan 16 





KARLA MORENO | The Observer 
WOLVERiNES PaSSiNg 
denard is gone. but devin is in. 
Irish fans may be rejoicing that denard robinson, their scrambling, shoelaceless nemesis for so many years, has finally moved on to torment some­one else. redshirt junior devin Gardner isn’t the same runner robinson was — few in the history of the game ever have been.  but the former wide receiver can move just fine, and has an arm to go with it, as well. notre dame was able to solve the robinson dilemma last fall, but michigan is moving to the pro-style offense under Gardner, which will pose a whole new slate of problems to the Irish secondary. 
That notre dame secondary comes in with another year under its collec­tive belt, and has transitioned from a liability to a weapon. The Irish did a good job of keeping receivers in front of them in their opener, and should be well equipped to deal with veteran Wolverine receivers Jeremy Gallon and drew dileo. dynamic sophomore tight end devin Funchess could present some issues as well, and will test notre dame’s rangy outside linebackers.
     EdgE: EVEN 
WOLVERiNES RuSHiNg 
once again, this would seem to be an area where michigan will miss robinson. but Gardner’s arm should keep the Irish from stacking the box like they did against denard, which will allow Gardner to pick his spots and break it big. That seems especially like­ly after watching notre dame defend against Temple’s pro-style offense last week. owls quarterback connor reilly is nowhere near as athletic as Gardner but still ran for 77 yards on 12 carries. Add in sturdy fifth-year running back Fitzgerald Toussaint and future first-round pick Taylor Lewan at left guard, and the Irish will have their hands full in gameplanning for saturday. 
If there’s anyone that can get the job done, it’s the dynamite front seven of notre dame, featuring names like nix, Tuitt, and shembo. but just like when they faced off with shoelaces, stopping michigan’s run game may just be a case 

KARLA MORENO | The Observer 
of limiting the damage.
     EdgE: MiCHigaN 
WOLVERiNES OFFENSiVE COaCHiNg 
Wolverines offensive coordinator Al borges has averaged nearly 400 yards per game in his two years at michigan, and is in the process of retooling his offense around a more traditional quarterback. 
his counterpart on saturday will be Irish defensive coordinator bob diaco, who bottled the Wolverines and held them to just six points last season. diaco’s defense was exposed by Temple, and now he’ll have a week to figure out the issues and deliver the message. After watching notre dame’s historic defense dominate last year under his schemes, it’d be hard to imagine the Irish being beaten in the same fashion in consecu­tive weeks.
     EdgE: NOTRE daME 
WOLVERiNES SPECiaL TEaMS 
At 5-foot-7, Wolverines sophomore re­turn man dennis norfleet can get lost in a crowd extremely easily — and show up again 50 yards downfield. Fifth-year senior brendan Gibbons made his last 13 kicks last season, and is still perfect early on in the 2014 campaign. 
notre dame’s kick coverage teams have been very strong of late, and will hope to keep michigan from getting a big momentum play on returns. but at the end of the game, michigan can turn to an all-senior battery of snapper, hold­er, and kicker — which might just be the difference in front of another world re­cord crowd.
      EdgE: MiCHigaN 
WOLVERiNES SCHEduLE (1-0) 
Aug. 31 Central Michigan  W 59-9 sept. 7 Notre Dame sept. 14 Akron sept. 21 @ Connecticut oct. 5 Minnesota oct. 12 @ Penn State oct. 19 Indiana nov. 2 @ Michigan State nov. 9 Nebraska nov. 16 @ Northwestern nov. 23 @ Iowa nov. 30 Ohio State 



Jack Hefferon 
sports Writer 
darn right notre dame-michigan is a rivalry, and the hatred between the schools owes as much to the years they haven’t played each other as to the years they have. This is likely the last time these schools will play in the big house this decade, and that urgency will show in a tight game saturday. 
The Irish defense will need to step up to contain devin Gardner, and Tommy rees will need to con­tinue to take care of the football to keep the Irish in it. 
It won’t be pretty. michigan stadium will be throbbing. There’ll be turnovers, mistakes and heart attacks. This one could go either way, but the night ends with the visitors taking the rivalry’s bragging rights back to south bend. FINAL SCORE: notre dame 29, michigan 26 (oT) 


The observer | FRiday, SEPTEMBER 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 






Cherished rivalry says goodbye to Big House 

KIRBY McKENNA | The Observer 

Irish senior quarterback Tommy Rees looks for a receiver during Notre Dame’s 13-6 win over Michigan last season at Notre Dame Stadium. Rees and the Irish will make their final visit to Michigan Stadium on Saturday night for the forseeable future. The Notre Dame-Michigan series is set to go on a hiatus after next year’s matchup at Notre Dame. 
of attention and backlash he Arbor may sting a bit more than dame-michigan matchup is another.” 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 

editor-in-chief received. the others, as the Wolverines now tied with miami-Florida The average margin of vic­
“It’s a great and historic ri-took a 35-31 lead with two sec-state as the third-most visited tory in the entire history of the 
It all started with a sealed let-valry that we’ll be playing this onds remaining to seemingly matchup by ‘college Gameday.’ series is 4.1 points, which only ter handed off from one ncAA saturday, so let’s get that out of renew the matchup’s rivalry notre dame-michigan is just heightens the anticipation for powerhouse to the next prior to the way right away so we don’t status. one appearance behind the an historic matchup that will just another installment of the have to answer any more ques-“It’s a huge national rivalry Florida-Florida state and soon meet its indefinite hiatus. famed notre dame-michigan tions about this rivalry,” he to be around that team and Florida-Tennessee matchups in “It’s our rival. I mean, it’s series on sept. 22, 2012. In just said. play that team,” michigan All-the show’s history. michigan,” Irish defensive end the last two seasons, the two rivalry or not, the matchup American tackle Taylor Lewan “I think it’s great for college stephon Tuitt said. “everybody programs have fielded a peren-features the two programs with said. “The idea of a rivalry and football,” hoke said. “It must wants to go home with that win, nial esPn classic re-run, two the highest all-time winning being there on saturday, it’s a have some sort of national ap-go home with that chip on their heisman candidates and two percentages in the ncAA. And phenomenal feeling. ... It’s un-peal. … I know that whenever back saying they beat some­bcs bowl appearances to renew saturday will be the 41st match-fortunate [that it’s ending], but michigan and notre dame body. so [we] definitely want to fervor for the glory days of old. up of the series, with michigan I’m going to get over it.” was on Tv, I was going to be go out hard.” 
but with that letter, it turned leading 23-16-1. on saturday, esPn’s ‘college watching it. I know people in out, notre dame director but it could also be the Gameday’ will feature the se-corvallis, ore., were going to be Contact Andrew Gastelum at of Athletics Jack swarbrick last meeting at michigan ries for the sixth time. The notre watching it, for one reason or agastel1@nd.edu thought the Irish should see stadium for quite some time, 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
other people starting in 2015. as michigan director of now the uproar has shifted Intercollegiate Athletics dave from ending a rivalry to argu-brandon told The detroit news ing if it is even a rivalry at all. on Wednesday there are no cur­
“It is for us,” michigan coach rent discussions with notre brady hoke said at his monday dame. press conference. “everybody “our schedule is booked go-looks at things differently.” ing out into the early [2020s] 
Those comments came a day and my understanding is theirs after the issue was put into is, as well,” brandon said. “so question, when Irish coach my view is the only way we’re brian Kelly dubbed the series a going to play notre dame after “big regional game.” next year would be if we run 
“I really haven’t seen it as one into them in a bowl game or of those historic, traditional if our schedules allowed us to notre dame rivalries,” Kelly have some kind of a neutral site said sunday. “I’ve seen it as one-off game somewhere along just one of those great football the way.” games that notre dame has The Irish have lost six of the played.” last seven games at The big 
Kelly seemed to backtrack on house, with their last win com-Tuesday, although he appeared ing in upset fashion in 2005. miffed at how the amount of course, the last loss in Ann 




ndsmcobserver.com | FRiday, SEPTEMBER 6, 2013 | The observer 




Dual-threat Gardner steps in at quarterback 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Associate sports editor 
As the starting quarterback at michigan, denard robinson terrorized the Irish defense, capturing two wins in three attempts. shoelace has gradu­ated, but no. 14 notre dame will have to try to keep an­other Wolverines quarterback tied up saturday in the big house. 
senior quarterback devin Gardner has completed the shift from receiver to signal caller, and he brought a dy­namic set of skills with him. 
“he  reminds  me  [former  
nFL  quarterback]  randall  
cunningham  back  there,”  

Irish coach brian Kelly said. “he can throw it, he’s tall, he’s athletic, runs the ball very well.” 
robinson, who garnered buzz as a heisman contender throughout his career, put up gaudy stats in his first two ca­reer starts against the Irish 
— both michigan victories. In 2010 and 2011, robinson totaled 366 yards rushing and 582 yards through the air while accounting for eight touchdowns. 
however, robinson also threw three interceptions in 2011 before adding four more in 2012 while accumu­lating only 228 total yards in michigan’s 13-6 loss in notre dame stadium. robinson possessed skills Gardner can’t duplicate, Kelly said, although he acknowledged Gardner is more of a threat with his arm than his predecessor was. 
“Well, certainly from a run­ning standpoint, I don’t know that we’ve ever played a guy like robinson, I mean, his just electric speed that he could immediately go 80 yards,” he said. 
“having said that, you know, throwing the football, Gardner throws the football with much more accuracy. he pushes the ball down the field very easily. And he certainly scrambles very well, keeps his eyes downfield and is not afraid to run.” 
Although he was not the starting quarterback, Gardner did play a minor role in last year’s meeting with notre dame, as he compiled 40 yards on three catches as a receiver. The detroit native started eight games out wide for the Wolverines in 2012, to­taling 266 yards on 16 catches before supplanting robinson as the starting quarterback for the final five contests of the season. Gardner scored at least two touchdowns in each of his starts while earning big Ten offensive Player of the Week honors twice. The con­verted receiver earned three consecutive wins before los­ing to ohio state in columbus and to south carolina in the outback bowl. At the time, the buckeyes and Gamecocks held rankings of fourth and 11th, respectively. 
“Gardner, he’s a pretty good passer and very mobile,” Irish junior defensive lineman stephon Tuitt said. “he can get out of the pocket and throw the ball very far, so we have to make sure we keep everything right and make sure every­thing goes good with him.” 
In his first action of 2013, Gardner got the no. 17 Wolverines underway last week with a 59-9 romping over central michigan, rushing for 52 yards on seven attempts and throwing for 162 yards on 10-for-15 passing. It was not, however, an elite season debut for the quarterback, michigan coach brady hoke said, as Gardner also threw two inter­ceptions in the opener. 
“I think sometimes guys who have that kind of ability, sometimes it’s ... a blessing and a curse,” hoke said. “And he can make a lot of plays and as long as he keeps learning ... punting the ball on fourth down is not a bad decision.” 
The matchup with the Irish provides a very public stage on which Gardner can prove he belongs as a big-time quarter­back, an opportunity not lost on the senior. 

“I’m really excited,” he said. “It’s a big game on the big­gest stage in college football ... It’s what every quarterback dreams of — being on the big stage and being able to per­form like this.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 




