THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAmE AND SAINT mARy’S 



Professor evaluates State of the Union proposals 
President Barack Obama proposes economic improvements, increase in minimum wage 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
News Writer 
President Barack Obama outlined a number of policy changes during his 5th State of the Union Address to joint ses­sions of Congress on Tuesday night, changes that professor Daniel Graff said targeted the most important concerns for Americans right now. 
Graff, director of under­graduate studies for the Department of History, described the policy pre­scriptions in the address as relatively tame, due to the limits placed on the President by a Republican majority in the House of Representatives. He said he found it disheart­ening that a bolder pathway to rebuild the American middle class was not offered. 
“I certainly think he [Obama] wants to rebuild the American dream of equality, opportunity and upward mo­bility,” said Graff. “But he fac­es significant hurdles in the House, and this has prompt­ed him to think strategically small.” 

Graff said he was pleased by the attention Obama gave to the nation’s economic status and the job market during the speech. 
Graff said he appreciated the emphasis put on raising the minimum wage and in­dexing it to inflation, since the minimum wage has been declining in real value since 1968. Obama proposed rais­ing minimum wage to $9 per hour. 
“It is way past time to pro­tect our poorest workers from 
see ADDRESS PAGE 3 



Research shows logic of love 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 

As romance fills the air on Valentine’s Day, assistant pro­fessor of sociology Elizabeth mcClintock said she does not buy into the idea of love as an il­logical occurrence that cannot be explained. 
Instead, she said she believes love and why people are attract­ed to each other can easily be rationalized. 
“There is a disjoint between us feeling it is something irrational and random, and the fact that it 
see ATTRACTION PAGE 4 




SonnetFest engages Shakespeare 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 

For those who pass through O’Shaughnessy Hall today, SonnetFest 2013 will bring all 154 of Shakespeare’s sonnets off the page and to the public with an unconventional read­ing in celebration of Valentine’s Day. 
As part of the fourth an­nual SonnetFest, 87 readers will recite sonnets in the Great Hall of O’Shaughnessy Hall to­day from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. The 


Saint Mary’s hosts annual dance showcase 
readers will deliver their son­nets sequentially in a variety of languages. 
Scott Jackson, executive di­rector of Shakespeare at Notre Dame, said the goal of the event is to share the poems’ beauty with the entire community, and the Valentine’s Day con­text just complements the experience. 
“Back when the event start­ed, we had been trying to figure out a way to engage the student 
see SONNET PAGE 6 

By BRIDGET FEENEY 
Associate Saint mary’s Editor 

Dancers will take to the stage tonight to present a se­ries of choreographed ballets and movements in the open­ing performance of this year’s Dance Ensemble Workshop. 
The College’s Program in Dance with­in the Departments of Communications Studies, Dance and Theatre spon­sors the workshop, which will take place today through Saturday at the moreau Center for Performing Arts little Theatre. The theme for the 2013 Workshop is DanceSpeaks, which was chosen because it captures the way the dancers convey their own messages to the au­dience, Artistic Director and dance professor laurie lowry said. 
“All art is a means of commu­nication,” she said. “Dance represents non-verbal com­munication, but still offers a means of expressing ideas, feelings, joy, sadness and a full range of human emo­tions. As dancers, we speak through movement.” 
The performance will fea­ture students enrolled in various dance classes at the College and some students from Notre Dame. Alumna Jean Rogers, who graduated from the College in December 
see DANCE PAGE 5 


GUEST SPEAkER PAGE 4 VIEWPOINT PAGE 9 SCENE PAGE 11 BENGAl BOUTS PAGE 20 mEN’S BASkETBAll PAGE 20 




ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan Doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: kristen Durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: Dan Brombach Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Courtney Cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: monica mcCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 


Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint mary’s 
College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, managing Editor, 
Assistant managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTmASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Who is your celebrity crush? 

Aiden Baldwin 
freshman 
Sorin College 
“katie king.” 

Alex Rizk 
freshman 
Sorin College 
“Gloria maciorowski.” 

Amy Stuhldreher 
senior 
Breeh-Phillips Hall 
“Ryan Reynolds.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Lucas Lima 
freshman 
Sorin College 
“Gisele Bundchen.” 

Patrick Mazza 
freshman 
Sorin College 
“Emma Watson.” 

Tom Aichele 
freshman 
Sorin College 
“Taylor Nutter.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Ann marie Jakubowski Cory Bernard Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: kaitlyn Rabach Greg Hadley Charitha Isanaka Isaac lorton 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Brandon keelean Allie Tollaksee 
Photo Viewpoint 

SonnetFest Junior Parents Men’s tennis Sunday Mass Blood Drive 
mackenzie Sain Dan Bromach 

O’Shaughnessy Hall Weekend Eck Tennis Pavilion Basilica of the Sacred Rolfs Sports 11 a.m.-3 p.m. Campus-wide 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Heart Recreation Center Free and open to the Through Sunday Notre Dame vs. 10 a.m.-11 a.m. 11 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

public. Contact jpw@nd.edu. Michigan. Mass at the Basilica. Call 574-631-6100. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Theatre: “Hamlet” RCLC Anniversary ND Jazz Band Family First Classes Technology Tools 
strives for the highest standards 
Washington Hall Celebration DeBartolo Performing Rockne Memorial for Learning and 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
7:30p.m.-10 p.m. Robinson Community Arts Center 1 p.m.-2 p.m. Teaching 
however, recognize that we will make 
British actors Learning Center 2 p.m.-3 p.m. Family climbing to LaFortune Student 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
performing 5:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. Annual JPW concert. improve well-being. Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Shakespeare’s play. 12th anniversary. 3:30 p.m.-4:45 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 
Workshop for faculty. 



Club hosts prom for cancer patients 
By CAILIN CROWE 
News Writer 
Prom is a celebratory pin­nacle of four years walking high school hallways, and Saint mary’s Stands Up will bring the magic of that night to cancer pa­tients and survivors in march. 
The College chapter, which is a branch of the national Stand 
PAID ADVERTISEmENT 


and fundraise, Graham said. Supporting cancer research is a key aspect of the club’s goals. 
“I really like that 100 percent of any donation goes straight to research,” Graham said. “Researchers work together through out the country to come up with treatments or ways to detect different types of cancers.” 
Graham said she is happy to be a part of an organization that provides both financial and emotional support for students who have been impacted by cancer. 
“I like being a part of Stand Up because not only is it a great or­ganization with a great mission, but it’s also such a great support system.” 
Contact Cailin Crowe at ccrowe@saintmarys.edu 
Address 
CONTINUED FROm PAGE 1 
poverty, and this will help,” Graff said. 
Encouraging Congress to pass the necessary legislation to re­build the nation’s infrastructure, move toward energy indepen­dence and increase hiring will be important, Graff said. The presi­dent said he plans to address problems of unemployment, with a specific focus on the crisis of the long-term unemployed. 
“I watched the president’s speech with appreciation for his articulation of how critically im­portant it is to continue to utilize the federal government’s tool­kit to help grow the economy in ways that will help working peo­ple,” Graff said. 
Small-minded strategies will not be enough to bring about the large-scale changes, Graff said. “Closing tax loopholes for corporations and the wealthy, and improving education for in­dividuals, while good in and of themselves, will not put a large dent in the inequality and pov­erty that now define our nation,” Graff said. 
The president’s address showed concern for these prob­lems, but did not propose a rem­edy to the situation, according to Graff. In order to bring about what Graff referred to as “a new Golden age,” he claimed a push toward more progressive income taxation would be necessary. Along with this, Graff said the cap on payroll taxes would need to be eliminated to encourage the wealthy to contribute more to Social Security, medicare and other social welfare programs. 
“most important [would be] actively promoting labor law reform to empower workers through unions to increase job security and convert profits into wages.” 
For junior Sean Brady, a po­litical science and philosophy double major, he said one of the President’s strongest mes­sages was the one that remained unspoken. 
“By remaining silent on Israel, Obama has made a strong state­ment that the national interests of Israel are not in the best inter­ests of the United States,” Brady said. 
Brady also found Obama’s fo­cus on gun control to be rather powerful, especially noting the presence of former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, a high-profile victim of gun violence, who was shown several times during the segment. 
For Graff, however, Obama covered the most important ground for Americans in his words on the economy. 
“I was happy to see the President focus so much on the economy, recognizing that de­spite the indicators of recov­ery. … For many Americans, things are not heading in the right direction,” Graff said. “Or at least, they’re not head­ing there fast enough.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
Up To Cancer organization, will host a prom for those in the local area dealing with cancer march 
2. Senior Devon Graham, Saint mary’s Stands Up president and founder, said she wanted to cre­ate an event that would allow students to interact with cancer patients and survivors. 
“So many of us are healthy people and we underestimate things like prom, but prom is a big deal for people who aren’t healthy enough to go,” Graham said. “I think this prom gives students and patients the op­portunity to interact and be a support system for each other. 
The event will be held at Haggar Parlor and is open to all students and cancer patients in the area. There is no cost for cancer patients and their guests. 
This is Stand Up’s second prom, and Graham said she hopes the event will eventually become an annual occurrence. 

“It’s amazing to hear a cancer patient’s story,” Graham said. “The prom is a great way for pa­tients to share those stories with students.” 
Graham said she established a Saint mary’s chapter during her sophomore year because of her belief in the value of Stand Up’s mission. 
“my dad passed away from cancer when I was in high school and ever since I’ve kept up with Stand Up To Cancer,” Graham said. 
“Everyone is so affected by cancer. We have a passion for it because we’ve all had someone we love either survive or lose the fight.” 
During the school year, Stand Up members volun­teer at memorial Hospital 

PAID ADVERTISEmENT 


studEnt sEnAtE 

Administrator educates Senate on sexual assault 

By MADDIE DALY 
News Writer 
Dr. Bill Stackman, associate vice president of student ser­vices, visited the Student Senate during this week’s meeting and spoke on his role in Notre Dame’s sexual assault policies. 
New to Notre Dame this year, Stackman has spent 31 years working with sexual harassment at a variety of schools, most re­cently Texas A&m University. His current role is the Deputy Title IX coordinator, which means he is the point person for all reports of sexual assault at Notre Dame. 
“Title IX is about equal­ity on college campuses, espe­cially concerning athletics,” Stackman said.  “Due to the [Department of Education’s] Office of Civil Rights, every 
Attraction 
CONTINUED FROm PAGE 1 
is actually very logically and so­cially structured,” she said. 
mcClintock has conducted re­search on the roles of physical attractiveness and social status in mate selection, and she has found many stereotypes about selection to be false. 
She first examined the tro­phy wife stereotype, or the idea that men with high-income occupations will marry attrac­tive women, and found she could generally debunk this claim. In reality, mcClintock said men and women tend to marry spouses who have a similar status to their own. 
“We have the perception that the surgeon will marry the pretty nurse,” she said. “But instead, doctors marry doc­tors, lawyers marry lawyers.” 
mcClintock attributed the misconception to the finding that higher status men and women are better looking on average than those who hold lower status. 

university is required to take immediate action [on allega­tions of sexual assault], mean­ing we have 60 days to complete the process [of investigation]. you can imagine if you are a vic­tim or on the side of an accused it can be pretty daunting, so the last thing they want this thing to do is go on forever.” 
Stackman said it is not enough to just have a handbook or a website; universities have to educate the campus on how to report. 
“my job is to reach out to stu­dents of concern all the time,” Stackman said.  “We flag stu­dents who are struggling, whom we heard about through a rector, a faculty member or students themselves and reach out to provide support.” 
Stackman said sexual assault policies are not the same across 
“They can afford dermatolo­gists, they are less likely to be overweight,” she said. “There is a correlation between physi­cal attractiveness and status.” 
As a result, if couples match on social status, they will also generally match on their level of attractiveness, she said. 
“There is going to be a cor­relation between one spouse’s social status and the other’s attractiveness,” mcClintock said. “But they’re not neces­sarily trading attractiveness for status.” 
The trophy wife stereotype could also exist because peo­ple assume only male status and female physical attractive­ness matter in mate selection, mcClintock said. That claim states a female would choose the male for his status, while the male would choose the fe­male for her attractiveness. 
“I think women care what men look like too, we don’t particularly want to marry ugly men,” mcClintock said. 
Social status affects mate selection so greatly because the board and need to be de­fined at each university. At Notre Dame, reports can be made from a variety of sources, including NDSP, rectors, faculty, students, coaches and parents, and after a report, Stackman said he as­signs a Sexual Assault Resource Coordinator (SARC) to both the complainant and the accused. 
Student body vice president katie Rose added that student are not obliged by the honor code to report sexual assault and can generally be considered confi­dential sources, but those acting in certain roles, such as Resident Assistants, are required to pass reports to the Deputy Title IX coordinator. 
Students can find more infor­mation about which sources can remain confidential and which cannot through the Center for Sexual Assault Prevention. Once a report has been made, Stackman said the SARC will help guide students through the Notre Dame’s process of investigation. 
“Often students don’t know where to go in this situation,” Stackman said.  “The SARC is to provide them with this type of support. In addition, we ask each person involved to not have con­tact with the other person [who is accused of assault] until fur­ther notice. This includes physi­cal contact, communication and communication between friends.” 
The complainant then has the choice whether or not to con­tinue the case through either or both University discipline and the legal system, Stackman said. Since being at Notre Dame, Stackman has handled 20 cases in his capacity as Deputy Title IX coordinator. Eight of those cases 
of its relation to cultural capi­tal, she said. In order for two people to connect emotional­ly, they need to possess some of the same cultural interests and knowledge. 
mcClintock said education level remains the single stron­gest force in mate selection. 
“men might be willing to accept a woman who is beau­tiful and doesn’t have a lot of money,” she said. “But they’re not willing to accept a woman who doesn’t have the same education or the same cultural background.” 
Despite her findings, mcClintock said not all cou­ples match entirely on social status, education level and physical attractiveness. 
“you can have successful marriages with people who are different,” she said. “I don’t think that’s bad. I think it’s good because it can cre­ate a certain amount of social mobility.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 

involved complainants who were unwilling to share, meaning they came forward to an extent but did not give the name of the accuser to take the case further, Stackman said.  In addition, five out of the 20 complainants were males, and two involved sexual intercourse. Sixteen of the 20 cases involved alcohol. 
“This is an administrative process, it is not a court of law,” Stackman said.  “We have room to make this our own, and we’re always looking for ways to make it better.” 
Rose said the reason for this presentation was the clear up the misinformation that is wide­spread across campus. 
“I’ve heard stories from people who have been witnesses or accused and nobody seems satisfied, no one knows the ac­tual process,” Rose said.  “Now it should be clear that if something does come up in your dorm or with your friends you can know the process and know that it’s a stringent one that is the same across the board.” 
Sitting in on the session were the newly elected student body president and vice president Alex Coccia and Nancy Joyce, intro­duced at the beginning of the meeting by current student body president Brett Rocheleau. They will assume their offices in April. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 

PAID ADVERTISEmENT 
PAID ADVERTISEmENT 



program since my freshman 
dance 

year,” Rogers said. “I am per-
CONTINUED FROm PAGE 1 

forming in two pieces, ‘Say with a dance minor, said she Something’ and ‘3m.’” is eager to return to campus In addition to Rogers’ piec­and perform in the show. es, the performance will fea­
“I am in DanceSpeaks be-ture a variety of styles, music cause I love to dance and have and choreography from both been involved in the dance solo and group dances. lowry 
PAID ADVERTISEmENT 

said the audience can expect to see something new with each dancer. 
“This performance offers many different pieces for curious people,” she said. “There are a variety of dance styles represented, including classical ballet in a Spanish style, contemporary ballet, Japanese ballet and various modern dance styles.” 
In order to prepare for the program, Rogers and the other dancers auditioned for their spots early last semes­ter. lowry said the overall process of rehearsals, chore­ography and costuming has been “fairly smooth.” 
“I have found this group of dancers very focused and professional throughout the working rehearsals,” she said. “They are very sup­portive of each other and the choreographers.” 
Rogers agreed with lowry that the preparation for DanceSpeaks has been root­ed in the rehearsal process and learning how to work to­gether as a group. 
“It is all about rehearsing 
— rehearsing the piece itself, practicing hair and makeup, running through the pieces with our costumes on and working with the crew and the light designer to set the lights for each individual 
PAID ADVERTISEmENT 

piece,” Rogers said. “It takes a lot of people to make a dance show successful and we have a great group.” 
However, despite the 
“I have found this group of dancers very focused and professional throughout the working rehearsals.” 
Laurie Lowry 
artistic director 

months of preparation and planning, there was some uncertainty about the fu­ture of the performance when the moreau Center for Performing Arts caught on fire Jan. 27, the second blaze to hit the building in less than three months. Originally, DanceSpeaks was scheduled to occur on O’laughlin Stage, but when damages from the January fire made that impossible, lowry and the dancers had to search and plan for a new venue. 
“When the fire hap­pened, we did not know where the performance would be or if the date might have to be changed,” she said. “Performing venues off campus were explored but in the end the theater and dance faculty were able to share the little Theatre space, and we were able to keep the original date and adjust to a smaller theater.” 
As a dancer, Rogers said the fire proved to be the biggest challenge for preparing for her dances. 
“The stage in O’laughlin is larger than the little Theatre stage, and we have had to ad­just some of the choreography and our spacing in order to accommodate the size of the stage in the little Theatre,” she said. “Fortunately, it did not take too much time to adjust. Though the fire was challenging, we all were able to overcome and grow as a company.” 
DanceSpeaks opens to­night and continues through Saturday. Each show begins at 7:30 p.m., with an addi­tional matinee performance at 2 p.m. on Saturday. Tickets cost $8 for students and $10 for faculty and staff. To purchase tickets, visit the moreau Center’s website at moreaucenter.com or call 574-284-4626. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 


THE OBSERVER | thursdAy, fEbruAry 14, 2013 | NDSmCOBSERVER.COm 

sonnet 
CONTINUED FROm PAGE 1 
population with Shakespeare and bring his work off the page,” Jackson said. “The idea of a public reading of the sonnets seemed like a great way for everyone to be able to make a small contribution in an unin­timidating, accessible format, especially somewhere as pub­lic and high-trafficked as the Great Hall.” 
Jackson said the combination of Shakespeare and Valentine’s Day “just makes perfect sense” because of the deeply senti­mental nature of the sonnets. 
“Sonnets deal with all different times in life, from birth to death to romance to betrayal, but all have this ele­ment of friendship underly­ing,” Jackson said. “most of them are in some way about love, but sometimes this love transcends its dictionary definition.” 

The event is scheduled down to the minute, with most of the 87 readers contributing two sonnets each, Jackson said. Participants come from all colleges and departments of the University and com­bine to create an experience Jackson described as “a bit of a marathon.” 
“It’s incredible because all these different departments, all these different students gather around something as universal and timeless as Shakespeare’s verse and unite through that,” Jackson said. “To see students across the University make that leap and find that engagement is amazing.” 
The idea of international­izing Shakespeare is a prior­ity of SonnetFest, and Jackson said the variety of languages augment the experience since it becomes clear that the son­nets’ themes ring true in any translation. 
“We’ve had 15 or more lan­guages, everything from French, Spanish, German, and Russian to klingon, morse Code, Parseltongue and American Sign language,” Jackson said. “We’ve had folks sing sonnets, and people have definitely had fun with it.” 
Professor JoAnn DellaNeva, associate dean for undergrad­uate studies and one of today’s readers, said she appreciates how public the event is and how it is uniquely capable of reaching a diverse audience. 
“I love that the SonnetFest is held in the O’Shaughnessy Great Hall with its continuous traffic, so that even people who hadn’t planned to attend this event or who didn’t even know about it suddenly find them­selves in the middle of a public reading and stop and listen to a poem or two,” DellaNeva said. 
At its core, the event is about giving life to the language and helping students and faculty access the true beauty and sig­nificance of the poetry, Jackson said. 
“I feel that Shakespeare’s language is constricted when you just read it off the page,” Jackson said. “The words affect you differently when they’re voiced, and you get to make a personal connection to them.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Cruise line cancels more trips 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — Carnival Cruise lines has canceled a dozen more planned voyages aboard the Triumph and acknowledged that the crippled ship had been plagued by other mechanical problems in the weeks before an engine-room fire left it powerless in the Gulf of mexico. 
The company's announce­ment on Wednesday came as the Triumph was being towed to a port in mobile, Ala., with more than 4,000 people on board, some of whom have complained to relatives that conditions on the ship are dismal and that they have limited access to food and bathrooms. 
Passengers' stay in Alabama will be limited, Carnival said in a statement late Wednesday. The company said passengers were being given the option of boarding buses directly to Galveston, Texas, or Houston, or spending the night in a hotel in New Orleans, where the com­pany said it booked 1,500 rooms. Those staying in New Orleans will be flown Friday to Houston. Carnival said it will cover all the transportation costs. 
mobile mayor Sam Jones said late Wednesday that the city has more than enough hotel rooms to accommodate pas­sengers and its two airports are near the cruise terminal. 
"We raised the issue that it would be a lot easier to take a five-minute bus ride than a two-hour bus ride" to New Orleans, Jones said, adding that he did not know the com­pany's reasoning. Jones said Carnival employees will be staying in mobile. 
Once docked, the ship will be idle through April. Two other cruises were called off shortly after Sunday's fire. 
Debbi Smedley, a passenger on a recent Triumph cruise, said the ship had trouble on Jan. 28 as it was preparing to leave Galveston. Hours be­fore the scheduled departure time, she received an email from Carnival stating the vessel would leave late be­cause of a propulsion prob­lem. Passengers were asked to arrive at the port at 2 p.m., two hours later than originally scheduled. 

The ship did not sail until af­ter 8 p.m., she said. 
"my mother is a cruise travel agent so this is not my first ro­deo. I have sailed many, many cruises, many, many cruise lines. This was, by far, I have to say, the worst," said Smedley, of Plano, Texas. 
Robert Giordano, of the Oklahoma City suburb of Edmond, said he last spoke to his wife, Shannon, on monday. She told him she waited in line for three hours to get a hot dog, and that conditions on the ship were terrible. 
"They're having to urinate in the shower. They've been passed out plastic bags to go to the bathroom," Giordano said. "There was fecal matter all over the floor." 
Even more distressing, Giordano said, has been the lack of information he has been able to get from Carnival, a complaint shared by Vivian Tilley, of San Diego, whose sis­ter is also on the vessel. 
Carnival, she said, has not told families what hotel pas­sengers will be put in or pro­vided precise information about when they will arrive in mobile, Ala. And that came af­ter the cruise line switched the ship's towing destination from Progreso, mexico, to mobile. 
Tilley said her sister, Renee Shanar, of Houston, told her the cabins were hot and smelled like smoke from the engine fire, forcing passengers to stay on the deck. She also said people were getting sick. 
"It's a nightmare," Tilley said, noting Shanar and her husband chose a four-day cruise so they wouldn't be away from their two daughters for too long. 
After losing power on its most recent journey, the ship drifted until Tuesday, when two tugboats began moving it toward shore. 
EGyPt 

Egyptian women fight back against sexual assaults 

Associated Press 

CAIRO — Egyptian women are growing increasingly angry and militant as they deal with one of the unintended conse­quences of the Arab Spring: an epidemic of sexual assault that law enforcement has failed to contain. 
The backlash, which includes self-defense courses for women and even threats of violent re­taliation, is fueled by ultracon­servative Islamists who suggest that women invite assault by attending anti-government protests where they mix with men. 
At marches against sexual harassment in Cairo, wom­en have brandished kitchen knives in the air. Stenciled drawings on building walls depict girls fighting off men with swords. Signs threaten to "cut off the hand" of attackers. 
The reaction comes at a particularly heated moment. While the latest wave of dem­onstrations against President mohammed morsi's rule has cooled in recent days, large protests have grown increasingly violent. 
A hard-core minority of demonstrators has vowed to take on the government, and police have responded with force. About 70 people have been killed in clashes with security forces since Jan. 25, the second anniversary of the revolt that deposed longtime autocrat Hosni mubarak. 
Harassment has long been a problem in this patriarchal society, and attacks against female demonstrators have occurred under the democrat­ically elected morsi, the mili­tary council that ruled before him and mubarak, who gov­erned the Arab world's most populous country for nearly three decades. 
The new element, however, is the increasingly sexual na­ture of the violence. 
Sexual assaults at protests, where women have been groped, stripped and even raped, have risen both in number and intensity in the past year, reaching a peak on the uprising's anniversary. 
On that day alone, activ­ists reported two dozen cases of assaults against wom­en at demonstrations in and around Cairo's central Tahrir Square, one of which involved the rape of a 19-year-old. The United Nations responded by urging the government to take action. 
Activists say the attacks are organized by opponents of the demonstrations, who aim to make protests seem less representative by remov­ing women from the scene. To date, no specific groups have been charged. 
Hard-line Islamists have seized on the issue to propose their own solution: limit fe­male protesters to designated areas. 
On monday, members of the human rights commission of the Islamist-dominated leg­islative assembly criticized women for rallying among men and in areas considered unsafe. 
While they urged passage of a new law to regulate demon­strations and facilitate police protection, one prominent member said that women should not go to protests. 



north korEA 

North Korea claims success in nuclear testing 
Associated Press 
TOkyO — North korea’s lat­est underground test shows it is making big strides toward becoming a true nuclear pow­er. But the test may also reveal key clues the secretive nation might have hoped to hide about how close, or how far away, it is from fielding a nuclear weapon capable of striking the United States or its allies. 
Hoping to capitalize on a rare opportunity to gauge North korea’s nuclear capa­bilities, intelligence and mili­tary officials around the region are scrambling to glean data to answer three big questions: how powerful was the device Pyongyang tested, what sort of device was it, and what prog­ress does the test indicate the nation has made. 
North korea hailed Tuesday’s test as a “perfect” success, say­ing it used a device that was stronger and more advanced than those in its past two at­tempts. Add that to its success­ful rocket launch in December and the threat of a North korea ready to strike at the United States, which it sees as its arch­enemy, would appear to be more real than ever. 
But just how close is it? 
The main thing intelligence officials want to figure out is what kind of device was used. 

Was it a plutonium bomb, like the ones it tested in 2006 and 2009, or one that used highly enriched uranium? 
James Acton, an analyst with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said North korea’s plutonium stockpile is small and it would be difficult and expensive for the North to produce more. But a test using highly enriched uranium, which is cheaper and easier to produce, would raise the threat that North korea can expand its nuclear arsenal quickly. 
“A highly enriched 

Student sues over poor grade 
Associated Press 
EASTON, Pa. — Talk about grade inflation. 
Graduate student megan Thode wasn’t happy about the C-plus she received for one class, saying the mediocre grade kept her from getting her desired degree and becoming a licensed therapist — and, as a result, cost her $1.3 mil­lion in lost earnings. 
Now Thode is suing her pro­fessor and lehigh University in Bethlehem, claiming monetary damages and seeking a grade change. 
A judge is hearing testi­mony in the case this week in Northampton County Court. lehigh and the professor con­tend her lawsuit is without merit. Northampton County Judge Emil Giordano declined to dismiss the suit Wednesday, ruling that there was enough evidence for the suit to proceed, according to The (Easton) Express-Times. 
Thode took the class in the fall of 2009. Her instructor, Amanda Eckhardt, testified this week that she stood by the grade, saying Thode failed to behave profes­sionally and thus earned zero out of 25 points in class participation, bumping her down a full letter grade. 

“I ... believed she received the grade she earned,” Eckhardt said. 
The C-plus prevented Thode, an otherwise A student, from going on to the next class and advanc­ing in her professional therapist studies, the newspaper reported. She wound up getting a master’s degree in human development instead. 
Her attorney, Richard Orloski, argued that Eckhardt targeted Thode because she is an outspo­ken advocate for gay marriage. 
Eckhardt testified that while she believes marriage is between a man and a woman, she would never allow her personal views to influence her treatment of students. She said Thode had outbursts in class, did not partici­pate appropriately, was emotion­ally unstable and failed to heed a warning letter. 
Stephen Thode, the plaintiff’s father and a longtime finance professor at lehigh, testified on his daughter’s behalf and said her participation score was highly irregular. 
“I have never heard of a case, not just at lehigh, where a student achieved a zero in class participa­tion where they attended and par­ticipated in every class,” he said. 
uranium test would be a sig­nificant development,” he said. “Unfortunately, we don’t yet have any evidence as to the de­vice’s design yield or whether it was made from plutonium or highly enriched uranium.” 
Finding that out is a race against time. 
Joseph De Trani, for­mer head of the National Counterproliferation Center, predicted U.S. intelligence would determine the size and composition of the nuclear de­vice in one to three days based partly on radioactive elements released into the environment. 
“Highly enriched uranium is something that degrades quickly, so you would have to collect within a 24-hour pe­riod,” especially because the traces from an underground explosion will be minimal, he said. 
Neighboring Japan may pro­vide some of those answers. 
Its fighter jets were dis­patched immediately after the test to collect atmospheric samples. Japan has also es­tablished land-based moni­toring posts, including one on its northwest coast, to collect similar data. 
But experts caution such monitoring doesn’t always work because test sites can be sealed to prevent tell-tale leaks. They also note that North korea has proven it has the ability to mask its tests quite well. No radioactiv­ity was detected after North korea’s test in 2009. 
The first indication of the latest test was seismic activ­ity at the test site, which U.S. officials estimated at roughly magnitude 5.1. That would be equivalent to a medium-sized earthquake. North korea’s two previous tests registered at magnitude 4.3 and 4.7. 
Working off that data, South korean officials estimate the yield of the device — a mea­sure of how strong its explo­sion is in comparison to TNT 
— to be between 6 and 7 kilo­tons. The United States has es­timated it at “several kilotons.” Either way, it would be North korea’s biggest yield yet but far less thwan that of the weapon dropped on Hiroshima in 1945, which was about 20 kilotons. 
“Because the depth of the test is not known and the geol­ogy of the test site is uncertain, translating the seismic magni­tude into yield is difficult,” said Acton, the Carnegie analyst. “my own back-of-the-envelope calculation suggests a yield of between 4 and 15 kilotons.” 
VAticAn city 

Pope says final public mass 
Associated Press 

VATICAN CITy — With a hum­ble “Grazie” as bishops doffed their mitres and applause echoed through St. Peter’s Basilica, a frail Pope Benedict XVI began his long farewell by presiding over Ash Wednesday services in a tearful, final public mass. 
“We wouldn’t be sincere, your Holiness, if we didn’t tell you that there’s a veil of sad­ness on our hearts this evening,” said Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, Benedict’s longtime deputy, his voice breaking. 
“Thank you for having given us the luminous example of the simple and humble worker in the vineyard of the lord,” Bertone said, quoting Benedict’s own words when he first appeared be­fore the faithful above St. Peter’s Square after he was elected pope. 
Smiling and clearly moved, Benedict responded, “Grazie. Now let us return to prayer” — his words bringing to an end the resounding applause that had grown in intensity over several minutes. 
Then, in a rare gesture and sign of respect, the rows of bish­ops, some with tears in their eyes, removed their mitres. One prelate dabbed at his eyes with a handkerchief. 
“Viva il papa!” someone in the crowd shouted as the pope slowly made his way down the steps of the altar, assisted by two clergy­men. He then departed St. Peter’s for the last time aboard a wheeled platform, sparing him the long walk down the aisle. 
Ash Wednesday marks the start of lent, the most solemn season on the church’s liturgical calendar that ends with Holy Week, when the faithful com­memorate the death of Christ and his resurrection on Easter Sunday. By this Easter, on march 31, the church will likely have a new pope. 

In his final homily as pontiff, Benedict sent a clear message to his successor and those who will elect him of his hope for the future: a united church that isn’t “defiled” by internal rivalries. 


insidE column 

Club 23 nostalgia 

Troy Mathew 
Scene Writer 

Being a second semester senior is obvi­ously terrifying. All of us are teetering on the precipice of adulthood, and have to deal with all the difficult questions posed by such a position — Where will I live? Will I have a job? Will I have health insur­ance? Is health insurance even a thing people have anymore? Why is everyone getting engaged? 
Beyond merely the tribulations of se­nior year, it’s the strange emotional re­sponses that people have to these stresses that are interesting and unique to Notre Dame. Personally, I have had a strange nostalgic and emotional reaction to my waning days as a pseudo-adult. 
Cramming into a sweaty, strobe-lighted dorm room and clambering des­perately for the last Natty light does not seem inherently desirable, but for second-semester seniors, the scene represents a relatively simpler time. Rather than vying for elusive entry-level positions, the pre­vailing concern of those days was safely transporting a suitcase full of beer from the parking lot to the dorm, or making sure you got into the same physical edu­cation class as your friends. 
Football season? let’s not even go there. 
Amid all this nostalgia, however, is one very important void — my monday night void, left in the absence of Club 23. I’m aware Club 23 closed a pretty long time ago, and I’m also aware an inexplicably sticky carpet and air composed of ap­proximately 70 percent cigarette smoke are not totally desirable things in and of themselves. But nostalgia is emotional. It’s impervious to logic. 
Club 23 just seemed to have the magic formula for creating the perfect college dive bar. First, there were the frozen long islands. The secret recipe — two parts gin, two parts rum and one part lethal venom — was delivered, unassumingly, in delicious slushy form. And I could pay for it with the change I found under the seat in my car. I’m simply not convinced things like that exist in the post-graduate world. 
Also, a lot of its allure resided in the fact that no one was really sure what Club 23 was. Was it a converted house? Why was the entire floor carpeted? Why did it vaguely feel as if I were in the house of my great-aunt or something? These enig­matic questions may never be answered but represented Club 23’s mystique. 
Nostalgia is a funny thing because it can leave you pining for things you weren’t even that crazy about at the time. All our experiences at Notre Dame are tied to a multitude of other memories and feelings, so missing a dive bar turns out to be missing a lot more than just a dive bar. 
Bring your own light 
Kate Barrett 
Faithpoint 

Have you noticed that the days are growing longer? Not, as we might wish, in total hours per day; that’s still stuck at 24. However, we are at least getting a little more bang for our buck in the daylight department. This morning, the sun rose at a rela­tively early 7:41 a.m. and won’t set tonight until 6:47 p.m. That’s a total of 10 hours and 36 minutes of day­light if you’re keeping track. Back at the beginning of February we only got 10 hours and four minutes. 
It seems fitting, then, that we have also begun the season of lent, a word that shares its roots in the word for “spring.” lent was origi­nally associated with the change of seasons from winter to spring, and particularly with the lengthen­ing amount of sunlight in each day. Images of light and darkness are plentiful during lent, with darkness getting one last try on Good Friday as Jesus hung dying on the cross. As you’ll hear in luke’s Gospel on Palm Sunday, “It was now about noon and darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon be­cause of an eclipse of the sun” (lk. 23:44-45). 
But we know how that story ends. 
In the darkness of Good Friday, God’s beloved son, sent to save the world and to lead us all back to the Father, turns out to be a different kind of savior than anyone would have ever expected. He experiences an absolutely humiliating and pain­ful death. But as the disciples did not yet know, Jesus rose from the dead to become the light no darkness can overcome. Each and every baptized Christian, then, as a member of Christ’s body, shares in that light. During the season of lent we pre­pare — again and again, because it’s the work of a lifetime — to renew our baptismal promises at Easter and to live out those promises in our lives. 
Events in the Church this past week remind us how very uniquely we each share in the light of Christ. While Pope John Paul II’s example of perseverance through suffering shone a light on how to live a holy and blessed death, Pope Benedict XVI’s announcement on monday that he will resign the papacy il­luminates a path toward humble acceptance of our own limitations and the importance of discerning our true role in the body of Christ. In their own ways, each of these last two popes revealed the very particu­lar way he followed Christ’s light. One imitated Jesus’ willingness to suffer publicly for the sake of others and one recognized that his role, like Jesus’, required that he lead by relin­quishing all claims to leadership. 
The promises our parents made for us at our baptism — and which we ourselves renew each Easter — call us to become who God truly means us to be, not just to follow the crowd to the latest attraction or distrac­tion. Jesus gives us the power to be light in darkness, a power no one can take away from us. 
The powerful pull of planets and stars, the light that grows and di­minishes as Earth moves around the Sun, reminds us that God’s presence in our lives is as big as the universe, even while the gift of his beloved son Jesus reminds us that he loves us in­dividually and intimately. On Easter day we will enjoy a full 12 hours and 40 minutes of daylight. During this lent as the light begins to push back the night each morning and evening, try contributing your own light to the effort. Become the light of Christ wherever you find darkness in the world around you. 
Kate Barrett is the assistant director of undergraduate ministry in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EditoriAl cArtoon 

QuotE of thE dAy 
“Where is there dignity unless there is honesty?” 
Cicero 

Roman philosopher 

Contact Troy Mathew at tmathew2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


‘Waiting for Superman’ 
Adam Newman 
Scientia Potentia Est 

“Waiting for Superman” may be one of the most important docu­mentaries made in our lifetime. The documentary examines the failure of American education by explaining why the system fails and by sharing the stories of students who are failed by it. 
The title “Waiting for Superman” comes from the gut-wrenching story of Geoffrey Canada, the founder of Harlem’s Children Zone — a charter school and social experiment that has produced jaw-dropping educa­tion outcomes in a 95-block area in Harlem — and a leader in the edu­cation reform movement. Canada recalls, “One of the saddest days of my life was when my mother told me Superman did not exist.” When his mother revealed that Superman was not real, he started crying “because there was no one ... coming with enough power to save us [from the ghetto].” 
most Americans are also “Waiting for Superman,” but in a different way than Canada. Americans know our education system is bad, but instead of becoming active to enact positive change, they place their hopes in an elected official, such as President Barack Obama or a school chancellor such as michelle Rhee, to “save” the American education system. 
The reality is in a robust democ­racy, one person, even someone as powerful as Obama or Rhee, can­not create the changes necessary to save American education on his or hee own. The size and power of this change can only come from millions of ordinary Americans who learn about the barriers to education re­form, hold their politicians account­able and become involved in their local school districts. This becomes even more true due to the decentral­ization of America’s education sys­tem and the vast power of the special interests that guard the status quo. 
I spend a lot of time trying to un­derstand those who succeed in the public sphere and what separates them from those who do not. my greatest realization is that the peo­ple that usually succeed in the pub­lic sphere and create positive change never got the message from critics that they were never supposed to succeed in the first place. 
In education, no one exemplifies this better than Wendy kopp, whose name is known to few but whose organization, Teach for America, is known to millions. Teach for America is an organization that originated from kopp’s 1989 senior thesis describing an organization that would recruit successful col­lege students from top universities and place them in urban and rural school districts. many did not be­lieve she could succeed in her en­deavors. Initially they were right, as the organization faced financial and logistical difficulties in its first few years. But today, Teach for America is one of the most popular service organizations that a young person can enter, with 10,000 current corps members and a 2011 application class of 48,000 with an acceptance rate of 11 percent. 
While there are some legiti­mate critiques of its model, Teach for America has done an incred­ible job of placing highly talented young people, many of whom could have become investment bank­ers, consultants, doctors and many other respected professions, into education. Teach For America also inspires the next generation of edu­cation reform leaders by allowing its teachers to witness first hand the dysfunctions of American education and the politics that perpetuates it. Teach for America alumni include many prominent education lead­ers, most notably Rhee, who ran the Washington D.C. school system, and Dave levin and mike Feinberg, who co-founded the knowledge Is Power Program, the largest and most suc­cessful charter school network in America. 
It will take thousands of Wendy kopps running for local school boards, starting charter schools, managing school districts, teaching in urban schools and running for public office to get American educa­tion to produce the results expected of the richest country in the world. 
When it comes to a decentralized issue like education, where special interests, backed by money and po­litical power, guard the status quo, Americans have two options: one, we can continue to wait for Superman and continue to get the same medio­cre results from the same dysfunc­tional American education system that has become an invitation to na­tional decline. Or two, we can real­ize that, as Canada says, “There is no Superman coming to save [America’s kids]. All they have is us.” 
Adam Newman is a senior political science major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lEttEr to thE Editor 

Rethinking the carbon tax 
Conor Durkin’s article “Three birds, one stone” makes a compelling case for a carbon tax. However, I must disagree with his conclusions. First, it is difficult to measure and therefore tax externalities. Although carbon dioxide emissions can be measured in metric tons, it is difficult to measure in monetary terms how much one extra ton will be of detriment to society. This is because of uncertainty regarding the scope of climate change: Will that extra metric ton con­tribute to climate change to the extent it will cost an individual person in a “climate-changed” future $5 or $500,000? To deal with this uncer­tainty, government decides how much that extra carbon is worth and taxes accordingly. Since the government stands to benefit from increased tax revenue, it may have an incentive to overvalue the cost of carbon. 
moreover, advocates of a carbon tax would like us believe the taxes only affect the big, greedy over-polluting bad guys. This is not the case, as firms often pass the costs of extra taxes to con­sumers. mr. Durkin is aware of this, explaining that a carbon tax will give consumers an “incen­tive” to buy more efficient products. What he re­ally means to say is the carbon tax will make us choose between paying a ridiculous amount of money for something we don’t want and paying an even more ridiculous amount for something we do. And unlike the income tax, which is pro­gressive, the carbon tax hits everyone equally, rich and poor, in the form of higher prices for gasoline, electricity and even food. 
Finally, mr. Durkin’s last appeal for a carbon tax stressed that the money raised from such a tax could be used to lower other tax rates. I must actually agree with this, because I am completely sure the Democrats in Congress who want such a tax are currently having a fierce de­bate amongst themselves over what taxes they are going to lower with all of this new money. No, more likely this new revenue will be wisely invested in wholesome, profitable organizations like Solyndra. Oh wait... 
Ben Moeller 
senior Fisher Hall 


THE OBSERVER | thursdAy, fEbruAry 14, 2012 | NDSmCOBSERVER.COm 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
Scene Writer 

It’s that time of the year again. Once more, it’s Valentine’s Day, the day of the significant other (or lack thereof). Whether you do or don’t have a special Valentine this year, there is at least always an appropriate romantic movie for you. 
in case you have a Valentine: 
1. “The Notebook” 

What better romantic movie for the Notre Dame couple than the perfect Notre Dame romance — “The Notebook?” Directed by Notre Dame graduate Nicholas Sparks and based on his novel of the same name, this is easily one of the best romantic films and definitely not something like a stereotypical Valentine’s Day rom-com. This is because of the lack of a shallow plot, see-through build ups or clear candidates for “home-wrecker who ru­ins the couple-meant-to-be.” But really, with moments like Noah struggling to sell the house or the ever-famous “And it still isn’t over!” scene, “The Notebook” will always be a Valentine’s day favorite. 
2. “50 First Dates” 

No one ever forgets the first date, right? This movie, starring Adam Sandler and Drew Barrymore, captures a spark that seems very rare of Sandler in movies of re­cent memory. The film chronicles the tale of a woman-izer-turned-lover who makes every attempt to make the 

Sam Stryker 
Assistant managing Editor 

American capitalism may try to pitch the concept of Valentine’s Day to consumers as one of love and passion to sell flowers, jewelry and cards. But I’m not buying it. The only thing I love come V-Day is sugar and lots of it. 
That’s why Scene writer kicki Astuno and I chose Red Velvet Cupcakes with White Chocolate Cream Cheese Frosting as this week’s “Cupcake Boy Recipe.” With their brick-red cake, creamy white frosting and red sugar sprinkled on top, these are the perfect treat for Valentine’s Day. Remember: A cupcake can never disap­point you, but a boyfriend or girlfriend can. 
Whether you are celebrating today by spending time with that special someone or staying in to enjoy the company of your Netflix account and your cats, these cupcakes are the perfect treat to cap off your day. The best part is they are super easy to make and taste scrumptious. Why be lazy and by stale store-bought baked goods when you can make your own tasty good­ies at home? 
So what are you waiting for? Fire up that oven because you have some Valentine’s Day treats to make. 
woman of his dreams fall for him over and over again, redefining what it means to fall in love at first sight. The film is wildly hilarious, as is expected of Sandler, but what really sets this film over the top as one of the best rom­coms out there is the perseverance of Sandler’s character Henry Roth, who has faith that love could transcend a seemingly impossible obstacle. 
3. “Something Borrowed” 
Definitely a sleeper in terms of attention and praise in the realm of rom-coms, this movie celebrates the ideas of “true love triumphing all” and “if it’s meant to be, it’ll happen.” The movie is full of stars, including Ginnifer Goodwin, kate Hudson, Collin Egglesfield and John krasinski (best known as Jim Halpert from “The Office”). Watch out for our very own school to play a role in “Something Borrowed,” as Notre Dame becomes an important part of the plot. There are a few hit-or-miss jokes scattered throughout the movie, but the plot is otherwise very solid and the film as a whole very much underappreciated. 
in case you don’t have a Valentine: 
1. “He’s Just Not That Into you” 
ladies, just in case you find the sad reality of this ti­tle to hold true for you (and really, it’s all his fault), then here’s a film that will definitely pick you back up. A ro­mantic comedy following a few interconnected stories of couples meant to be and not meant to be, this film takes both a sentimental and humorous approach to love 
This recipe is adapted from Serious Eats and makes a dozen cupcakes. you’ll need a mixer and a cupcake tray. Be sure to check out a video demonstration kicki and I as we make these cupcakes on ndscmobserver.com! 
ingredients 
1 3/4 cup flour 
1 tablespoon cocoa powder 
10 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened, divided 
1/2 cup plus 1/3 cup sugar 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 large egg 
1 tablespoon red food coloring 
2 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided 
3/4 cup milk 
3/4 teaspoon baking soda 
3/4 teaspoon vinegar 
8 ounces cream cheese, softened 
3 cups confectioners’ sugar 
3 ounces white chocolate, melted and cooled slightly 
1/4 cup red sugar 
directions 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit and line the cupcake tray with cupcake liners. mix the cocoa powder and its falling outs. With an all-star cast of names like Ben Affleck, Bradley Cooper, Sasha Alexander, Jennifer Aniston and Drew Barrymore, movie watchers can expect to truly feel for their stories and, in the instances of heart­break, pity their characters more so than themselves. 
2. “(500) Days of Summer” 
Really, what better film fits into this sub-category of rom-coms than a film that introduces itself with “you should know upfront: His is not a love story.” As you may already know or have concluded from such a statement, the guy doesn’t get the girl, but the film does a superb job of detailing the phases of a relationship in a non-conven­tional manner. Not to mention, Joseph Gordon-levitt and Zooey Deschanel are two atypical heartthrobs who offer such great chemistry, making this film an easy and extremely pleasant viewing. 
3. “Forgetting Sarah marshall” 
Jason Segel performs as the lovable loser who tries to pick up the pieces following heartbreak and if this movie demonstrates anything, it’s that better things are always yet to come. The chemistry Segel and mila kunis strike inspires forlorn ex-lovers to focus on the self and have faith that things will work themselves out, and they really get more than a few laughs along the way. Russel Brand is absolutely brilliant in the film as well, playing the role of the superstar yet undeniably eccentric “other guy,” the perfect foil to Segel. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
and flour in a medium-size bowl. Using the mixer, cream six tablespoons butter, the sugar and salt on me­dium speed for two minutes until light and fluffy. 
Beat the egg, food coloring and one teaspoon of the vanilla until combined. mix in the flour/cocoa powder mixture and milk, alternating between the two and beginning and ending with the flour/cocoa powder. In a small bowl, stir the baking soda into the vinegar, letting it fizz. Immediately add it into the batter. 
Using a spoon or scooper, distribute the batter be­tween the cupcake cups. Bake for 17 minutes until firm to the touch, turning the pan halfway through. let the cupcakes cool in the pan for five minutes, then remove and let cool completely before you frost them. 
To make the frosting, use the mixer to beat the cream cheese, four tablespoons butter and confectioners sugar on medium speed for three minutes until light and fluffy. Beat in the white chocolate and remaining teaspoon of vanilla until just combined. Using an offset spatula, frost the cupcakes (there will be plenty of frost­ing for each.) Sprinkle the red sugar on top to garnish. 
The veiws expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 

THE OBSERVER | thursdAy, fEbruAry 14, 2012 | NDSmCOBSERVER.COm 


Sam Stryker 
Assistant managing Editor 

There seems to be a strict dichotomy in the ways different people celebrate Valentine’s Day. Either you have a significant other to celebrate the day with by going out to a romantic candlelit dinner and exchanging gifts, or you are bemoaning the fact you are spending yet another V-Day alone and single. 
I’m here to slap some sense into the latter half of that group. 
I’m tired of all the Sally Sob Stories complaining about the annoying couples on Valentine’s Day or how miserable they are for not having someone special to celebrate the day with. 
Get over yourselves, people. 

Spending Valentine’s Day single can be one of the best days of the year. As my charming little sister so astutely pointed out to me last week, this Valentine’s Day will mark the 22nd-straight year I will spend Feb. 14 single. last time I checked, I’m fabu­lous and doing just fine. 
In fact, I would say Valentine’s Day is better suited to single people. Not only do you get to eat all the chocolate you want guilt-free, but you can rub it all in the happy cou­ple’s faces that you are single and ready to mingle. 
So for all of you folks who have resigned themselves to another gloomy Valentine’s Day, I say snap out of it. Here are my tips to ensure your single Valentine’s Day is one of happiness and not misery. 
remind yourself: single doesn’t equal bad 
let’s look at a list of successful single people out there: President James Buchanan never married, Susan Boyle is a legitimate crazy cat lady and she nearly won “Britain’s Got Talent” and Queen Elizabeth I was a lifelong bachelorette. The biggest newsmaker in the world right now? Pope Benedict XVI, and he is spending Valentine’s Day alone. Heck, even University President Fr. John Jenkins is single. The fact of the matter is you don’t need a significant other to achieve anything in this world. If Beyoncé wrote a song about being a single lady, I think it is good enough for the rest of us. 
don’t be basic 

The absolute last thing you should be doing on Valentine’s Day is cranking up Taylor Swift to loud and dancing in your pajamas, pretending like you are fine with the fact you aren’t with someone. Additionally, avoid all romantic movies like the plague, “The Notebook” in particular. let high school girls stick to that stuff, but you’re better than that. Get out of your sweatpants and own the day. The only way you are going to have a great Valentine’s Day when you are single is if you decide from the moment you wake up you are going to have an awesome time. Somehow, I don’t think lying nearly coma­tose in your dorm room watching Ryan Gosling and Rachel mcAdams go at it is going to help the cause. 
dress to impress 

Some of you might think because you don’t have to look nice on Valentine’s Day because you don’t have a boyfriend or girlfriend to amaze. Well, you’re as wrong as black on navy. If you look your best, not only will you blow away the rest of the sweatpants-wearing population out of the water but you may also even land yourself someone by midnight. So ladies, wear a little black dress and heels to your 8:30 a.m. science lab. Gentleman, I’m thinking a suit and tie — you get bonus points for a bow-tie. you can thank me later. 
treat yourself 
I don’t care how hot your boyfriend or girlfriend is, but Valentine’s Day is terrible if you’re dating someone because you have to spend money like it’s going out of style. Flowers, chocolates, dinner, you name it — you have to buy it for someone who prob­ably isn’t even that awesome anyways. Instead of spending money on a significant other, all you single ladies out there should go and spend it on yourselves. I don’t care what it is — in a perfect world, I would install a mimosa fountain in my dorm room — but I just want you to pick something you enjoy and go out and treat yourself. 
hang out with your friends 
This one is pretty simple, but I don’t think we pay attention to it enough. Why not spend some time with your other single friends today rather than trying to suffer through the day alone? We’re all going to graduate soon, move off to faraway places, meet someone, have kids, have to clean up messy diapers, send our kids to college and retire. Before we know it, we’re going to all be wearing dentures, playing yahtzee ev­eryday and eating dinner at 4 p.m. life goes by fast, so enjoy the friendships you have now while it’s as easy as texting someone and meeting them in the dining hall. In the real world, it’s not so simple. 
create an imaginary boyfriend/girlfriend 
It may sound crazy, but why spend time with a Notre Dame 6 when you could be with a real world 9 or 10? Pick your favorite celebrity crush and come up with an elabo­rate backstory on how you met, what your favorite things to do together are, where you want to get married, what you’ll name your kids, etc. It’s much more fun than actually dating someone because you don’t actually have to spend time with them. If you want to put a little effort into it, you can Photoshop yourself into pictures with this celebrity. Just whatever you do, pick someone who doesn’t actually go to Notre Dame. As won­derful as some of the people are here on campus, no one wants to have to take out a restraining order on Valentine’s Day. 
have a sense of perspective about the situation 
you know what the headlines in The New york Times were on Wednesday? They were about President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address, Pope Benedict XVI’s resignation and the firefight between law enforcement agencies and a killer in California. you know what was not on the front page of the Times? “Notre Dame stu­dent suffers yet another Valentine’s Day alone.” Guess what — no one cares that you’re single on Feb. 14 yet again. Enjoy your day because you are going to be just as alone on Feb. 15 as you are today. 
Happy Valentine’s Day everyone! 
The veiws expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 


sPorts Authority 

Respect LeBron, he’s earned it 

Matthew Robison 
Sports Writer 
Full disclosure: I’m a leBron hater. I hate what he did to the city of Cleveland. I hate that he decided to collude with two other superstars to form a bas­ketball machine. my hate dates all the way back to his Cleveland days when he walked up to Gilbert Arenas, who was playing for my hometown Wizards in the playoffs, and interrupted him between free throws by speak­ing into his ear and patting him on the chest. At that point, any likability leBron had in my eyes disappeared. That was in 2006. 
But what leBron is currently doing deserves respect. And just because I hate the man does not preclude me from respecting his talent. In his last six games, he’s become the only player in NBA history to score at least 30 points and shoot at least 60 per­cent from the floor in six straight games. 
Now, I’m not going to get into comparing leBron to the other all-time greats. The Jordan­leBron debate will probably rage for decades after leBron retires. 
catches the ball on the block. 
miami coach Erik Spoelstra offered the best quote thus far about leBron’s performance. He told Heat fans, “Don’t take it for granted. He’s making greatness look easy.” 
Since his rookie year, everyone had a decent idea of how great leBron could be. But his full po­tential was hard to fathom. Now we’re finally seeing him actually reach that potential or, as scary as it might be, come closer to something even greater. 
I’ve watched several of these games. It seems as though leBron himself is just now real­izing how easy the game can actually be. He’s 6-foot-8. He’s listed at 250 pounds. I’d say he’s pushing 290. He has muscles in places I didn’t know a human could grow them. He’s a physical force. yet he plays the game with effortless grace. He’s incredibly agile and can jump out of the gym. 
If I were a coach, I’d be at an absolute loss as to how to stop him. Right now, sports pundits want teams to double him. But with players like Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh on the floor with 

LeBron is doing things on the basketball floor that haven’t been done in a long time and probably won’t be done again 
for a while. 
I think that debate is unfair to both players, but that’s not where I’m headed. I just think we should give respect where respect is due. 
There have been some incred­ible single season performances 
— Oscar Robertson’s triple-double average, Wilt averaging 50 points and 25 rebounds per game, Jordan’s 37-point average. If leBron can keep this streak alive, it will rank right up there. 
The scariest part of this “new” side of leBron James is he is just now figuring out to maximize his potential. For a while, critics knocked leBron for not playing defense. Now he’s a lockdown defender. Then, they said he can’t shoot from the outside. No one dares to leave him open from three. Then, people called him out for not being able to play with his back to the basket. Now, he’s nearly unstoppable when he him, how do you intentionally leave them open? Honestly, I think you just have to hope and pray he has an off night, he gets in foul trouble or one of your players has an equally unstop­pable night. 

For now, I’m just glad I’m not in that unenviable position. I can just sit and watch his career un­fold. leBron is doing things on the basketball floor that haven’t been done in a long time and probably won’t be done again for a while. 
So as much as I hate him, I have to respect him. leBron is doing something unprecedented in the long history of the NBA. That demands my respect, and 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily 


nbA 

Hawks head into All-Star break with big win 
Associated Press 

The Atlanta Hawks have had trouble at times playing consistently against strug­gling teams. 
They chose a great time to jettison a bad habit. 
Josh Smith had 30 points and 10 rebounds and Al Horford added 26 points and 12 rebounds as the Hawks blew past the Orlando magic 108-76 on Wednesday night. 
The Hawks led by as many as 38 points and decimated the magic defense on the way to earning their ninth consecutive regular-season win over their division ri­vals. In Atlanta’s last game before the All-Star break, it was a signature night for Smith, who could be an as­set the Hawks may shop around the trade deadline. 
“Smith is a professional,” Hawks coach larry Drew said. “He’s been in this situ­ation before. During this time of season, rumors do fly. His name has come up before. He’s handled it very well. He’s handling it very well right now. The last thing we can do is allow any type of rumor to be a dis­traction. That’s my job.” 
Jameer Nelson and Andrew Nicholson led the magic with 10 points apiece. No other Orlando players reached double-figures. 
The magic have now lost 24 of their last 27 games. It was the capstone event to an unpleasant day. 
Already ravished by various player injuries this season, they were dealt a different kind of blow Wednesday when the NBA announced that forward Hedo Turkoglu would be suspended 20 games for taking a steroid. Turkoglu, who has already missed 31 games this season because of injury and illness, will now be out until late march. 
Whether it was that latest dose of bad news or not that led to the lackluster effort, 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more infor­mation, visit ND’s website at: http:// 

magic guard J.J. Redick said that after a decent first quarter, nothing went right against the Hawks. 
“We were down, definitely down. Nothing more to say. We got punked,” Redick said. 
Horford and Smith scored at will both inside and from the outside, and had a combined point total that equaled the magic’s team total after three quarters. 
It was Smith’s third 30-point game this season and 22nd double-double of the year. He now has 200 double-doubles for his ca­reer. He said his effort was spurred by his teammates. 

“We had an understand­ing with each other that we were not going to take this game for granted,” Smith said. “We needed to be able to come out and play ag­gressive on both ends of the floor and that is what we did. 
“I was just playing relaxed and didn’t force anything. I took what the defense game me and everything was working tonight.” 
It didn’t seem like it would be such a lopsided outing early on. 
The Hawks started the game just 1 for 10 from the field and had just a six-point cushion after one. 
They surged in the second, though, outscoring the magic 32-17 as they built a 21-point halftime lead. 
Orlando never recovered. 
Horford and Smith com­bined for 30 points and 17 rebounds in the half, just a shade under the 36 points and 18 rebounds the magic had as a team 
magic coach Jacque Vaughn made it clear that as bad as things are going for his team right now, he isn’t expecting to get a team back after the break that has given up on the rest of the season. 
“It’s just a break, not a vacation,” Vaughn said. “It’s a break to clear your mind a little bit, let your body reju­venate, and get ready for the remaining games At the end of the day, as simple as it can be you have to be ready to compete every night, es­pecially with the remaining games that we have.” 
Horford said there was no question that he felt like the Hawks answered an impor­tant call heading into the stretch run of the season. Their first game back after the break is a tough one against East Conference leader miami. 
“Coach Drew challenged us today,” he said. “We wanted to come out and set 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
pregnancysupport@nd.edu  matter. I’m amphibious.” – Charles  
Shackleford  
“So  there’s this girl.  Named  
Sydni. Wanna go to the Keough  “I told our players: “You need  
toga dance?” - Frankie  to be more like a dog! We don’t  
need a bunch of cats in here  
“The NFL, like life, is full of idi­ “meeeeoooow!” lookin’ in the mir­ 
ots.” –Randy Cross  ror. I look good~, I got my extra  
bands on, I got my other shoes. Be  
“Left hand, right hand, it doesn’t  a dog! We don’t need no meows,  


bouts 
CONTINUED FROm PAGE 14 
combination of quick­ness and smarts to dismantle sophomore James mancino. Picking his opportunities, Duden jumped in for a flurry of body jabs before backing away, dodging mancino’s counters. mancino was finally able to use his height and gain an advan­tage in the final round, landing multiple shots to Duden’s head­gear. Despite the final round one more flurry, knocking 


smc bAskEtbAll | SmC 49, HOPE 103 Fox to the mat yet again. This prompted the referee to stop the fight in favor of martinez, who earned a vic-
Belles celebrate 
tory by technical knockout. 
Eamon “Gravy” 

Senior Night 
mcosker def. brian 

effort by mancino, Duden won by unanimous decision. 
moises martinez vs. kevin fox 
The two fighters spent the first round getting comfortable and trading the occasional jab. The second round was a differ­ent story though, with junior moises martinez knocking freshman kevin Fox to the mat ten seconds into the round. After dictating the remainder of the round, martinez delivered 
PAID ADVERTISEmENT 
PAID ADVERTISEmENT 
kaltnecker 
Featuring two fighters with completely different styles, the fight came down to the wire. Graduate stu­dent Brian kaltnecker came out on the offensive, using a strong jab to put fresh­man Eamon mcOsker on his heels. mcOsker waited out his opponent and then capi­talized on a kaltnecker mis­step to land a massive right hook. mcOsker kept at his defensive strategy for the re­mainder of the fight and won by split decision. 
robbie hammer def. keith marrero 
In  the  night’s  finale,  
Duncan  junior  Robbie  
Hammer  controlled  the  

fight from beginning to end. Though senior keith marrero landed his share of punches, Hammer used his longer reach to gain an ad­vantage against the shorter marrero. Using a strong jab punctuated by an equally strong hook, Hammer pulled away. Finishing the bout with a left hook, Hammer won by unanimous decision. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 


Observer Staff Report 

Wednesday’s Senior Night was a difficult end to the season, as Saint mary’s fin­ished its season with a 103­49 loss to Hope. 
With only one loss, Hope (22-1, 13-1 mIAA) has been a challenging opponent for every team this year, and tonight’s game against the Belles (5-20, 3-13) proved to be no different. After falling behind 27-8 after the first 10 minutes of the game, Saint mary’s never managed to catch up to the Flying Dutch. In that half, Saint mary’s was out-rebounded 19-14, a prob­lem which has haunted the Belles all season. 
Another key to the game was the Saint mary’s nega­tive-17 turnover differen­tial, and the consequent difference in fast-break points. In contrast with the Flying Dutch’s 61.2 percent field-goal shooting, the Belles only mustered a 16­of-47 effort from the field. 
However, junior guard Shanlynn Bias managed to stand out in her second-to-last Senior Night with an 18-point effort. Hope’s bench play set the teams apart as nine of the 10 Flying Dutch to come off the bench scored a com­bined 49 points, compared to only 10 points by the Belles’ bench players. 
Saint mary’s finished eighth in the mIAA in the 2012-13 seasoon. After a 13-win 2011-2012 season, Saint mary’s had hoped to take another step for­ward this season, but with seven freshman, the learn­ing curve proved to be too steep. 
looking forward to next year, the Belles will un­doubtedly try to improve on their 5-20 mark, with all but two players returning. 



THE OBSERVER | thursdAy, fEbruAry 14, 2013 | NDSmCOBSERVER.COm 


began the fight by connecting after Dalton landed two hooks to only a few jabs, sophomore Eric on body shot after body shot to his headgear. Dalton’s inability Paultsis started the second give him an early advantage. He to capitalize on second-round round with a flurry of jabs to the continued the strong showing chances gave lamb a split deci-body and head gear and punc­in the second round, landing sion win. tuated the series with resound-on a flurry of combo punches to ing hooks. The third round was put freshman Sean Himel on his Patrick shea def. Gion equally exciting as law student heels. Himel turned to a strong “Perro loco” handal Clayton Pruner landed an upper-jab in the second and third keough freshman Patrick cut. However, Paultsis finished rounds but Delitto’s first round Shea controlled the fight from the fight strong with a power-advantage carried the senior to a the starting bell. He was the ful left jab-right hook combina­split decision win. aggressor, hitting junior Gion tion. Paultsis won by unanimous 
Handal with jab after jab and decision. stephen “release the keeping him on his heels for al­kraken” despins def. most the entire fight. The fight lucas “John” sullivan def. sebastian “the flying fish” was stopped midway through dan mulligan de las casas the second round after a pow-keough sophomore lucas 
Senior Stephen Despins and erful series of jabs from Shea, Sullivan established himself junior Sebastian de las Casas giving Shea a win by technical as the aggressor early in the responded with a solid one-two, fought in a back-and-forth knockout. first round. Though senior Danbouts but the referee still stopped the match. De las Casas appeared mulligan was able to counter CONTINUED FROm PAGE 15 fight in the first round when to earn the advantage early Zach “bedrock” flint def. Sullivan throughout the fight, Filonow sent Wieland into the when he knocked Despins to Greg “mr. tasty” sweetman he was constantly on his heels. magiera took control with pow-ropes with yet another devastat-the ground. However, Despins Freshman Zach Flint set the Sullivan used his quickness as erful left hooks. magiera won the ing hook. Filonow won by tech-looked like a different fighter tone early in one of the most deci-an advantage, as he was able to bout by unanimous decision. nical knockout after a referee during the last two rounds. He sive fights of the night, knocking get in close to mulligan and hit stoppage. used his reach advantage to con-down sophmore Greg Sweetman him repeatedly with jabs to the brian hartnett def. mike nect on jabs, occasionally closing with a right hook to his headgear. body. Despite mulligan’s efforts, “sandra day” o’connor Erik “the rhino” rayno the space to land uppercuts on That pattern would continue Sullivan won by unanimous 
Sophomore Brian Hartnett re-def. thomas meyer the junior. After his later round as Flint continued delivering decision. lied on his jab in the first round Junior Thomas meyer start-surge, Despins won by a split hooks, knocking Sweetman to while fellow sophomore mike ed the fight as the aggressor. decision. the mat twice more before the mitchell Johnson def. O’Connor responded with dis-Freshman Erik Rayno tried to re-fight was stopped by the referee, Gordon “stretch” ciplined parries and blocks. spond with his own flurries, but Jack “the ripper” donovan giving Flint the victory. macdougal Occasionally, O’Connor man-had more success when he kept def. dan falkenberg mBA student mitchell Johnson aged a combination but Hartnett his hands up to block and wait-The two sophomores traded Patrick mcfarlane stretched sophomore Gordon improved his defense in the sec-ed for an opportunity to land jabs to start the match but Jack def. tyler “the fightin’ macDougal’s defenses thin over ond round and got inside to fol-a punch or two. Rayno turned Donovan’s flurry of jabs at the Engineer” kreipke the course of this fight. Johnson low his jab with a straight right. agressive in the second round end of the opening round set The fight began as a one-used his quick hands to alternate Hartnett sealed the fight in the and managed a set of effective the tone for the rest of the fight. sided affair, with junior Patrick between jabs to the body and third round with a series of head-uppercuts. Though meyer put Dan Falkner had no answer for mcFarlane getting under gradu-hooks to macDougal’s headgear. body combinations and won the Rayno on the ropes in the third Donovan’s jab-hook combo and ate student Tyler kreipke’s guard Controlling the fight from start fight by unanimous decision. round, the freshman persevered Donovan earned a unanimous with hard shots to the body and to finish, Johnson put an excla­
with his combinations and won decision victory. a right hook that got the crowd mation point at the end with Andrew “50 shades of” by unanimous decision. cheering. kreipke came out a dif-a right hook that solidified his Greybar def. Eric “i can’t” mikey “francis” lamb def. ferent fighter in the later rounds, victory. reed ruben “the macho man” William “Grizz” dalton working much more efficiently. A 
Fifth-year senior Andrew carrion def. William “big Junior mikey lamb came last-second flurry by mcFarlane hank “the tank” duden Greybar started the fight ag-man” shanahan outaggressively in the open-was the difference, though, as he def. James “the muffin” gressively but junior Eric Reed Junior Ruben Carrion forced ing round, chasing sophomore won by split decision. mancino effectively dodged his punches law student William Shanahan William Dalton around the Coming into the fight at a sig­in the first round. Reed used onto the ropes in the first round. ring. Dalton took advantage of Eric “P-rex” Paultsis def. nificant height disadvantage, his quick feet to stay away from Carrion used his jab effectively his opponent’s aggressiveness, clayton “manifest destiny” junior Hank Duden used a Greybar and managed several and mixed in some combina-dodging lamb’s punches and Pruner solid one-two combinations, tions. Shanahan came alive in getting lamb up against the After a slow first round in demonstrating his discipline. In the second round with a strong ropes. Somehow, lamb escaped which both fighters exchanged see BOUTS PAGE 13 the third round however, Reed’s right hook and nailed a power-defensive boxing could not hold ful uppercut for the final punch off Greybar as the fifth-year of the round. Carrion and senior dictated the fight and Shanahan traded big punches pushed Reed against the ropes. in the third round, but Carrion Reed turned his head, allowing landed more and came away Greybar to land key punches to with the win by split decision. close the bout. Greybar won the fight on a split decision. Contact Samantha Zuba at 
szuba@nd.edu 
Andy baumann def. david “manifest destiny” diaz 
By A.J. GODEAUX 

Ph.D. student Andy Baumann Sports Writer and junior David Diaz traded combinations in an even first Andrew “bedlam” bedward round. Both boxers remained def. matt “mayday” maye disciplined and threw straight, mBA student Andrew Bedward well-timed punches. But Diaz started off this fight with a bang, frequently dropped his hands connecting on a series of left and Baumann took advantage, jabs punctuated by strong right especially in the third round. hooks. Fellow mBA student The graduate student methodi-matt maye recovered with a cally landed punch after punch strong uppercut to conclude the to swing the bout in his favor. first round. However, Bedward Though Diaz landed some strong dominated the second round rights, Baumann won the fight and knocked down maye with by unanimous decision. a powerful right hook. maye re­
sponded in the third round but sergi filonow def. Patrick could not overcome his oppo-Wieland nent’s advantage. Bedward won 
mBA student Sergi Filonow by unanimous decision. did not bother much with his left hand, opening the fight with chris “the crank” delitto a powerful flurry of right hooks. def. sean himel Freshman Patrick Wieland O’Neill senior Chris Delitto 



bouts his height advantage, Judd land­ed powerful hits while Hammock 
CONTINUED FROm PAGE 16 

effectively dodged the sopho­face of his opponent, only to see more’s jabs. Judd backed his se-Flanigan back him into a cor-nior opponent into the ropes in ner. The sophomore continued the first and second rounds be-to land powerful punches in the fore both tired in the final round. third round, including one that Despite the difference in stature, knocked Burns to the ground. the boxers fought an even match yet Burns got up and contin-before the judges awarded Judd a ued to fight until the end of the split decision victory. match. In the end, Flanigan won by unanimous decision. kevin “so krispee” 
kershisnik def. robert Contact Meredith Kelly at l’Arrivee mkelly29@nd.edu With slower and more cal­
culated punches, the fight be­tween senior kevin kershisnik 
By MARY GREEN 

Sports Writer and graduate student Robert 
l’Arrivee offered a break from connor chelsky def. Grant the quick pace of the preceding “i am turok” kippenbrock bouts. Despite little action in 
Sophomore Connor Chelsky the first round, kershisnik came came out with a flurry of punch-out in the second round with es to begin the first round, im-quick punches before the tempo mediately sending classmate slowed once again. With a late Grant kippenbrock into a defen-surge in the third round, the se­sive stance. The two fought more nior captured the unanimous evenly in the second round, win over the l’Arrivee. with kippenbrock countering Chelsky’s headshots with jabs to “d” Joel “unchained” his opponent’s torso. However, hlavaty def. John “the several strong Chelsky punches sandman” sandberg in the third round earned the Duncan junior Joel Hlavaty Alumni resident a unanimous and Fisher junior John Sandberg decision victory. traded jabs from the beginning 
of the bout, matching each oth-Eric “the squirrel” er punch for punch in the first tommarello def. conor round. Hlavaty backed his oppo­“lurkin” durkin nent into the ropes several times 
Sohomore Eric Tommarello but Sandberg always found a Heinrichs fought back to force Ulrich delivered several good in later rounds. Garvin took con-quickly established an advantage way out by ducking and fighting two stoppages in the final round. right-hand shots to the head trol in the second round when he over junior Conor Durkin with his way to the center. However, The graduate student earned a of Ampofo. Ulrich continued forced lillie against the ropes. quick footwork and rapid punch-after cornering his opponent one unanimous decision victory. his aggressiveness in the third He did it again in the third round es to the head. Both fighters dis-too many times, the Highlander round and Ampofo responded and eventually knocked lillie played sound defensive tactics, secured victory via technical Contact Mary Green at with more disciplined defense. down on his way to winning the blocking and ducking from each knockout 38 seconds into the mgreen8@nd.edu Despite Ampofo’s solid block-bout by unanimous decision. other’s hits. Tommarello chased third round. ing, Ulrich won by unanimous a retreating Durkin throughout decision. Eric krakowiak def. ryan 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 

the ring late in the fight, eventu-Joey “kangaroo” kim def. Sports Writer macdonald ally sending the junior stagger-Andrew “the General” Jimmy “Jimboslice”bowers Sophomore Eric krakowiak ing into the ropes to seal a victory koester scott “bootstrap” rousseau def. casey “Porkchop” used his hard jab to win the by unanimous decision. Both quick on their feet, se-def. conor mccarthy mccaffrey fight by technical knockout. The 
nior Joey kim and law student Sophomore Conor mcCarthy Senior Jimmy Bowers and referee stepped in during the sean hipskind def. Jackson Andrew koester began the fight started the bout strong against freshman Casey mcCaffrey second round to end the fight, Agraz evenly. kim landed a series of classmate Scott Rousseau. He fought a wild first round. Their which krakowiak dominated 
keenan sophomore Sean punches to his opponent’s head-used quick hands and long reach fists flew from the sound of the from the first round. Sophomore Hipskind advanced aggres-gear to close the first round to his advantage, but Rousseau opening bell but both boxers Ryan macDonald landed some sively toward keough freshman before the two traded jabs in countered with strong blocking. kept their punches straight and punches, but could not stop Jackson Agraz shortly after the the second round. The senior’s Rousseau advanced more ag-avoided sloppiness. Each land-krakowiak’s advances. bout started. Despite Agraz’s strength overpowered koester in gressively in the second round, ed several big punches. In the defensive attempts, Hipskind the end, and the judges awarded hitting the taller mcCarthy with second and third rounds, the trevor “stonewall” stevens cornered the freshman before kim a technical knockout vic-a flurry of body shots followed by fight slowed as the boxers tired. def. nick “troetter” troetti landing a string of shots to his tory in the second round. a left hook. After Rousseau forced Bowers kept plugging away with Sophomore Nick Troetti began opponent’s torso. This barrage mcCarthy to the ropes twice in crisp, well-timed one-two com-the fight with strong defense, ended the fight after less than a ryan “slopcat” majsak the third round, he took the fight binations and beat mcCaffrey by blocking and parrying efficiently minute, earning the sophomore def. calvin “bender” by unanimous decision. a unanimous decision. to hold off law student Trevor the technical knockout victory. campopiano Stevens. In the second round 
With a major height advantage, brian “rowdy” roddy def. Gage o’connell def. connor though, Troetti tried to defend Pete “the Wild irish rose” sophomore St. Edward’s resident mike “reptar” rotar noda himself by turning his head, mcGinley def. Eric “the Ryan majsak opened with an im-Both sophomores started law student Gage O’Connell leaving himself open to Stevens’ Viking” Verkuilen mediate advantage over Fisher the first round with crisp com-began the bout with a series of right hooks. The law student 
Sophomore Pete mcGinley sophomore Calvin Campopiano. binations. They traded quick intimidating haymaker hooks pushed Troetti around the ring began the contest with a relent-Each danced around the ring one-twos in the first round with and later added an effective fake-until the referee stopped the less series of jabs, sending mBA with agile footwork, but the neither boxer fighting aggres-to-the-head, shot-to-the-body fight in the second round, giving student Eric Verkuilen into a Gentleman used his long arms to sively enough to stay inside. In strategy. Junior Connor Noda Stevens the technical knockout defensive stance. Despite the land headshots and seal the early the second and third rounds utilized an effective jab, but win. defense, Verkuilen could not es-victory in the first round after the however, Brian Roddy found a tended to throw it and immedi­cape mcGinley’s quick footwork referee stopped the fight. rhythm and hit mike Rotar with ately back away from the free-charles “hammer” and punches, and the referee several sharp right hooks. As a swinging O’Connell. Though magiera def. brian Whelan stopped the fight 45 seconds into John “Jeams” heinrichs result, Roddy won the bout by Noda countered well with his Sophomore Charles magiera the first round. mcGinley earned def. Pat “straight outta unanimous decision. jab, O’Connell took the split de-and fifth-year senior Brian a technical knockout victory. compton” Gallagher cision victory. Whelan swung freely in their 
Sophomore Pat Gallagher and Jeff “little bear” ulrich fight. Both dropped their hands michael “last name” Judd graduate student John Heinrichs def. kobe “your last day” brian “hr Puff n stuff” to throw punches wildly, allow-def. mick “El Plátano” matched up evenly in the first Ampofo Garvin def. chris lillie ing each boxer to land combina­hammock two rounds, trading punches Senior Jeff Ulrich and fel-Junior Chris lillie threw pre-tions of blows. In the third round, 
In a close fight, O’Neill sopho-with equal force. Gallagher low senior kobe Ampofo fought cise body shots in the first round, magiera and Whelan traded one-more micheal Judd and knott opened the third round with defensively in the first rounds, but freshman Brian Garvin’s two combinations equally until senior mick Hammock traded a series of strong punches to with neither boxer landing many speed forced lillie to use the punches from the outset. Using Heinrichs’ face and body but punches. In the second round, punches as an escape technique see BOUTS PAGE 14 


THE OBSERVER | thursdAy, fEbruAry 14, 2013 | NDSmCOBSERVER.COm 

bouts 
CONTINUED FROm PAGE 17 
bell rang, Collins came out fir­ing. He did not allow senior Gilbrian Stoy any opportunities to land punches. The law stu­dent landed nearly every punch while running circles around the overmatched Stoy. The ref­eree stopped the fight midway through the second round due to Stoy’s excessive bleeding and awarded Collins the technical knockout victory. 
kieran carroll def. daniel “El hombre” Espinoza 
In an even matchup, fresh­man kieran Carroll defeated fel­low freshman Daniel Espinoza in a split decision. Carroll and Espinoza fought well in the first two rounds as both landed quali­ty punches. Carroll wrested con­trol of the match when he opened the third round with a flurry of shots knocking back Espinoza. The judges rewarded Carroll’s ef­fort with the close victory. 
tony “lucky” lucisano def. luke mccormack 
Senior Tony lucisano over­whelmed his freshmen coun­terpart luke mcCormack in a unanimous decision vic­tory. lucisano made aggressive moves throughout the fight, tiring mcCormack by the final round. lucisano held a slight ad­vantage after the first round, but took over in the final two rounds with blows to the head. 
dan rodriguez def. mark santrach 
In a battle of upperclassmen, junior Dan Rodriguez upstaged senior mark Santrach. Rodriguez dominated from the beginning, almost knocking Santrach to the floor in the first and second rounds. At the end of the first round, the referee penalized Santrach for consistently back­ing away from Rodriguez. By the third round, Rodriguez had sealed the victory and won by unanimous decision. 
kevin “Git ‘Er” dunne def. Jason “Glaucoma” kippenbrock 
With both seniors fight­ing in their final Bengal Bouts, kevin Dunne defeated Jason kippenbrock in a unanimous decision. Dunne advanced ag­gressively from the opening bell and landed several head-shots on kippenbrock. In the second round, Dunne compli­mented his headshots with body shots and nearly knocked down kippenbrock. Throughout the match, Dunne displayed supe­rior form and footwork and took home the victory. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
Sports Writer 
scott coppa def. brien “English tea Garden” kurtz 
Sophomore Scott Coppa made first contact with a few hard jabs to the head of fellow sophomore Brien kurtz. Coppa continued to chase kurtz around the mat, landing a strong hook to kurtz’s face and hard uppercuts to his body. After the final bell, Coppa earned the unanimous-decision victory. 

Garrity “the biscuit” mcosker def. luke miller 
Sophomore Garrity mcOsker started the match with jabs to freshman luke miller’s head and hard shots to his body. miller countered with a few powerful punches but mcOsker matched the blows with uppercuts, caus­ing the referee to momentarily stop the fight. The second round began with both boxers connect­ing jabs to the face. However, mcOsker landed too many hard punches and the referee stopped the fight for a second time, earn­ing the sophomore a technical knockout victory in the second round. 
ian “the Wright stuff” cronin def. Joe brogan 
Both boxers started the fight off strong, connecting many quick jabs to both the head and body. Junior Ian Cronin landed a particularly strong punch in the first round, nearly knocking sophomore Joe Brogan off his feet. Brogan held on to deliver more punches before the end of the first round. The sophomore landed a hard jab to Cronin’s face but the junior returned with punches knocking Brogan into the ropes. Cronin finished the match with a jab to the side of Brogan’s head and won by unan­imous decision. 
Jack healy def. ian Graham 

In the first round, senior Jack Healy landed strong punches on classmate Ian Graham, eventu­ally backing him into a corner. The referee stepped in as Graham continued to land strong hooks. The crowd applauded Healy’s efforts as he knocked Graham off his feet. The referee stopped the fight in the second round, awarding the technical knock­out victory to Healy. 
Andrew “mr. balloonhands” brendan def. Peter “snake ‘n’ bake” bloechle 
The match between mBA stu­dents began with excitement as both boxers came out swing­ing. Peter Bloechle threw hard punches but could not connect as Andrew Brendan landed forceful body shots and hard jabs to his opponent’s head. Bloechle responded with punch­es to Brendan’s face. However, Brendan continued to advance on Bloechle, unfazed by the blows. Brendan delivered one more hard punch to the face of his opponent and Bloechle fell to the ground. The referee ended the contest and Brendan earned the knockout victory. 
danny leicht def. mansfield “nello” burlingame 
Both seniors threw solid 
PAID ADVERTISEmENT punches as Danny leicht made the first serious contact by land­ing a series of blows to the body and jabs to the face. Burlingame then backed leicht into a corner, landing a few punches. leicht responded by landing two jabs to the face and a handful of right books to the body of Burlingame. After leicht delivered a strong uppercut, the referee intervened. The fighting continued, but not for long. The referee stopped the fight in the second round and awarded leicht the technical knockout victory. 
mike “El flan” flanigan def. rob “first degree” burns 
To start the first round, soph­omore mike Flanigan landed some hard punches with long reach to the face of Rob Burns. Flanigan’s height and reach ad­vantage continued to work in his favor as he delivered hard punch­es to the face and body of Burns. Burns answered momentarily 
see BOUTS PAGE 15 



PAID ADVERTISEmENT 


bouts 
CONTINUED FROm PAGE 20 
up with explosive blows. Falvey’s great agility enabled him to es­cape lee’s furious hits, and gave him the upper hand in the end. Falvey took the victory by unani­mous decision. 
ben “danger Zone” Eichler def. Gong “no Pain no” Weng 
The two fighters started off with back-and-forth jabs, but junior Ben Eichler quickly took charge of the fight with a series of strong body shots. He ma­neuvered senior Gong Weng around the ring and into the corner. Eichler continued to attack with an array of body shots and jabs to the head, and Weng stumbled multiple times in the ring. The referee called the fight during the first round, and the victory nod was given to Eichler.  
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
By CASEY KARNES 
Sports Writer 

Jason “maximus” taulman def. kevin katalinic 
In a battle between St. Ed’s fighters, senior Jason Taulman defeated sophomore kevin katalinic by unanimous deci­sion. Taulman set the tone from the beginning, nearly knocking katalinic to the ground with a powerful right cross to start the first round. In the second round, katalinic bounced back and ag­gressively pursued Taulman across the ring. However, the third round proved decisive as Taulman landed faster, stronger 
blows. 

PAID ADVERTISEmENT 

chris “the hitman” hinman def. nick Acampora. 
Experience bested exuber­ance when law student Chris Hinman defeated freshman Nick Acampora. Hinman’s ma­turity showed from the opening bell as he darted around the ring, stinging Acampora with quick jabs. The freshman landed some strong blows to Hinman’s head in the second round. But the law student adjusted and pun­ished Acampora with counterat­tacks in the third round to earn a unanimous decision victory. 
John “Juan malo” iwanski def. frank “the tank” dizenz 
law student John Iwanski and sophomore Frank Dizenz showcased their toughness in a matchup of powerful punchers. Dizenz began the fight by back­ing Iwanski into a corner with a ruthless flurry. Iwanski respond­ed with a combination of hooks and jabs to the body. The law student pressed his advantage in the second round by slowing his pace and landing several calcu­lated punches to Dizenz’s head, knocking the sophomore off bal­ance. Both fighters threw several punches in the third round, but Iwanski landed more to earn the unanimous decision. 
brian benedict def. matt o’sullivan 
Senior Brian Benedict over­whelmed freshman matt O’Sullivan in the former’s unan­imous-decision victory. Benedict employed a suffocating strategy, never giving O’Sullivan the op­portunity to counterpunch. The senior constantly jabbed through his challenger’s defenses, set­ting up powerful uppercuts. O’Sullivan ineffectively attempt­ed to counter as Benedict dipped and dodged around the ring. By the third round, O’Sullivan had tired and Benedict took advan­tage to claim victory. 
devin duffy def. Jack taiclet 
In a close fight, sophomore Devin Duffy claimed a unani­mous victory over freshman Jack Taiclet. Duffy gained the upper hand early by corner­ing Taiclet and landing a furi­ous combination of punches to the freshman’s body and head. Taiclet responded by knocking down Duffy with a strong hook. However, Duffy got the better of Taiclet in the third round with a constant barrage of jabs to the face to seal victory. 
kyle buckley def. dan “Get At” meehan 
Senior kyle Buckley won a hard-earned split decision over freshman Dan meehan to ad­vance to the quarterfinals. Both fighters began the fight in a flur­ry of fists at the center of the ring. meehan attempted to use his jab to keep Buckley at bay, but the senior withstood the punches as both fighters struggled to gain an advantage through the first two rounds. Neither was able to 
PAID ADVERTISEmENT 

muster much strength for the final round, but Buckley tapped into his reserves to land a few punches and earn the victory. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
By ALEX WILCOX 
Sports Writer 
Jackie “the forgetful housecat” Garvin def. sean “cadet” kelly 
Junior Jackie Garvin avenged last year’s opening-round de­feat by pummeling fellow junior Sean kelly. Garvin opened the fight with a flurry of blows to kelly’s head, sending him reel­ing. kelly fought back but was never able to overcome Garvin, who won by technical knockout in the second round. 
nick “Patio” rowek def. ted “no, not that one” hesburgh 
In a match that started slowly but ended with a flourish, senior Nick Rowek defeated junior Ted Hesburgh. The fight began with both boxers patiently waiting for the other to make the first move. Eventually Rowek took to the of­fensive and showed off his im­pressive footwork and quick feet, winning by unanimous decision. 
matthew “Goose” badyna def. cullen “Pride of Philly” mcnamee 
Both sophomore boxers came out aggressively and ultimately matthew Badyna’s endurance made the difference. Badyna and mcNamee exchanged sev­eral punches in a very exciting second round. Badyna opened and closed the round with a flurry of punches but mcNamee answered. By the end of the third round both boxers had clearly tired, but Badyna took home the unanimous victory. 
colt “Pony boy” collins def. Gilbrian “don’t toy with the” stoy 
This fight belonged to law student Colt Collins from the beginning. Once the opening 
see BOUTS PAGE 16 




condra 
CONTINUED FROm PAGE 16 
register two multi-goal games. He credited his ability to excel at a high level to both his expe­rience in an elite Notre Dame program and his time with former NHl and current Irish coach Jeff Jackson. 

“Notre Dame was great for me,” Condra said. “It taught me a lot of things, and helped me grow as a person. There’s a big-time spotlight at Notre Dame, 

dePaul 
CONTINUED FROm PAGE 16 
Dame struggled offensively in the second half outside of senior for­ward Jack Cooley, who scored 26 points and grabbed 16 rebounds in the 79-71 overtime victory. 
In that game, the Irish led by 12 with 16:29 left before surrender­ing the advantage and earning the victory in the extra period. 
In the first half of Wednesday’s contest, the Irish failed to grab a cushion early in the first half but relied on their bench to maintain the advantage. When Notre Dame pulled away with a 43-32 halftime lead, much of their advantage was due to the play of the reserves, who outscored DePaul’s bench 15-2. 
The Irish finished with 20 bench points, as freshman forward Cam Biedscheid and senior center Garrick Sherman scored seven each and freshman forward Zach Auguste contributed with six. 
The performance came just four days after the Irish bench willed the squad to victory in five overtimes against louisville on Saturday. Atkins needed a break late in Wednesday’s game after playing 60 minutes Saturday, and Connaughton is still nursing a leg injury from Saturday. 

“luckily with a veteran group, it’s not like we need a lot of reps [in practice] right now, especially in February,” Brey said. “We have a good feel on how to pace our guys. 
“We’re back to needing some rest here, almost for two days.” 
With the win, the Irish moved into a two-way tie for fourth place and a coveted double-bye in march’s Big East tournament. It also marked the seventh consecu­tive season that Notre Dame has won 20 games. 
The Irish will travel to Providence for their only regular-season matchup with the Friars on Saturday. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

and that teaches you a lot of things. Coach Jackson and the rest of the staff did a great job in helping my game and getting me ready for the next level.” 
But while the rookie was able to adjust to the pace of the game in Ottawa, he faced more of a shock off the ice. Condra said getting used to Canada’s hockey-crazed culture took a bit longer. 
“When I got called up to Ottawa, I went to pregame skate and was nervous there, and then came back to the locker room and there were 30 to 40 cam­era guys waiting at my stall,” he said. “I definitely wasn’t used to that.” 
Condra has begun to establish himself as a reliable player in the world’s premier hockey league, missing just one game last sea­son and contributing 25 points from a mostly defensive role. 
However, this year’s NHl lockout, which sent many play­ers packing to play overseas, stole a bit of his momentum. Condra went to Germany, where he played lower-division hockey and travelled Europe during his 
PAID ADVERTISEmENT 


off time. 

Now that the labor strike has been settled, Condra is back on the ice at Scotiabank Place and picking up right where he left off. He’s already tallied four points in the young season and said he hopes to help Ottawa return to the playoffs this year in addition to continuing to establish him­self as a two-way forward. 
The Senators have never won a Stanley Cup, but Condra said he hopes he can eventually help deliver Ottawa some history, just as he did in his sophomore sea­son at Notre Dame. 
“my freshman year we weren’t that great,” he said. “But my sophomore year we had a great senior class, and we were the first hockey team to light up that No. 1 [on Grace Hall] and won Notre Dame’s first CCHA cham­pionship. That was my fondest experience, and something I’ll take with me forever.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 




crossWord | WIll SHORTZ 


hiGhly PunlikEly | CHRISTOPHER BRUCkER 

loWEr your ExPEctAtions | lENNy RAGO &                                                               PATRICk CROSS 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
sudoku | THE mEPHAm GROUP 

horoscoPE | EUGENIA lAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: mena Suvari, 34; kelly Hu, 45; Peter Gabriel, 63; Stockard Channing, 69 
Happy Birthday: learn from your experience with others. Both in business and your personal life, the way you treat and respond to others will determine how far you will get and what will be proposed. Don’t be afraid to be different or original. It’s your uniqueness that will result in opportunities. Honesty must be maintained. your numbers are 5, 12, 14, 28, 32, 40, 49. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don’t share personal information. Someone is likely to meddle in your affairs, leading to a sticky situation. Emotions will be dif­ficult to control, so focus on practical matters that revolve around making your money work better for you. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you’ll be torn between beliefs and what your peers think or do. Follow your heart and stick to what works best for you. Graciously refuse to take part in something that doesn’t feel right. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll be taken advantage of if you share your ideas or show others how to do things. Protect your assets and your plans. you are in a high cycle regarding love, but avoid getting involved with someone if it could affect your job.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Acting on impulse will lead to trouble. Gauge your time and focus on getting things done that will satisfy your creative needs. Working with someone who shares your thoughts and interests will help you excel. Control your emotions. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll make personal gains if you indulge in a physical challenge that inspires, motivates and stimulates you. Trying something new could lead to reconnecting with someone from your past. Take care of personal business and move on. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a closer look at what’s going on in your life and with the people you must deal with daily. A problem with a peer or boss can lead to emotional mistakes. you should be working toward securing your posi­tion practically. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take a moment to engage in talks with family, friends or your lover regarding your domestic situation and your geographical location. Take any opportunity to visit places or areas that are appealing and offer poten­tial job prospects. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Networking will pay off. you’ll arouse interest in your creative ideas and form alliances with those who are in a position to take advantage of what you have to offer. It’s your turn to shine. Step into the spot­light and dazzle everyone. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll have to dodge questions from those trying to catch you off guard. Focus more on home, family and making your digs as comfortable as possible. Avoid anyone who is excessive or a bad influence on you. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Readdress an idea or service you considered providing in the past, and you will find a practical way to move forward with your plans. Don’t let someone’s enthusiasm lead you to take action prematurely. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ve got added discipline, so make it work for you. Whether you want to lose weight, learn something new or focus on self-improvement, this is a great day to plan your strategy and start the process. love and romance are highlighted. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): you can make things happen if you push others to complete contracts or settlements that have been pending. It’s a good day to make suggestions that will affect your financial situation. Serious talks will bring superb results. Take action. 

Birthday Baby: you fight for your rights. you are determined to get your way. 
JumblE | DAVID HOyT AND JEFF kNUREk 

make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  


THE OBSERVER | thursdAy, fEbruAry 14, 2013 | NDSmCOBSERVER.COm 
mEn’s bAskEtbAll | ND 82, DEPAUl 78 
Close call 
Junior guard Jerian Grant steps up his game once again to lead the Irish to an 82-78 overtime win 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Assistant managing Editor 
The venue changed, but the sto­ryline didn’t. 
Just 11 days after Notre Dame surrendered a double-digit lead in the second half against DePaul, it happened again at Purcell Pavilion on Wednesday evening. The No. 21 Irish eventually prevailed in over­time 82-78, but the evening felt too similar to the teams’ last meeting. 
“I’m thrilled we escaped that one,” Irish coach mike Brey said. “[DePaul’s] ball pressure defensive­ly really rattled us and we couldn’t get much in the second half. 
“Just like in Chicago, they can score. … We probably stalled of­fensively and made some bad deci­sions with the ball. … It would have been deflating to not get this one tonight. There’s no question about it.” 
The Blue Demons (10-14, 1-10 Big East) eliminated an 11-point half­time deficit and took a 63-60 lead with 6:45 left, but Notre Dame (20­5, 8-4) had an answer. 

Irish junior guard Jerian Grant, the hero of Saturday’s five-overtime thriller against louisville, made a layup and was fouled before con­verting the three-point play with 
4:40 left. The score tied the game and Notre Dame grabbed the lead on the next possession when junior guard Eric Atkins sunk a 3-pointer after an offensive rebound. 
While the lead did not stand — DePaul forced the sixth overtime in five days for Notre Dame — Grant elevated his game in overtime to lead the Irish to the victory. He scored six of the team’s 14 points in the extra period to finish with 21 points and nine assists. 
“I think we’ve always put the ball in his hands at key times,” Brey said. “We need him to shoot it. 
“He’s a key guy to go to.” When the Irish and Blue Demons played at DePaul on Feb. 2, Notre 
see DePAUl PAGE 18 

bEnGAl bouts 

Fights get underway 

By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports Writer 
138 lbs. Preliminaries 
Jack “rico suave” lally def. matt fallon 
Senior Jack lally set the tone early and ultimately won the fight by default. The ref­eree called the fight during the second round due to Fallon’s bloody nose. In the first round, sophomore matt Fallon went on the defensive, while lally at­tacked with a series of jabs to the head and body. At the end of the opening round, lally landed a big punch to Fallon’s head, caus­ing the injury. From then on, lally had sealed the fight. 
chris tricarico def. Alex bogucki baran 
Sophomore Chris Tricarico opened the fight with a series of jabs to the head and body of sophomore Alex Baran, who was able to regain his footing with a flurry of quick punches. At the onset of the second round, Tricarico took off. His power­ful right hook secured him the victory. Tricarico landed a huge right hook to Baran’s head, knocking him down. Baran made an attempt to come back in the third round, but Tricarico proved too dominant with his intense body blows and unyield­ing right hook. He took the vic­tory by unanimous decision. 
mark frego def. derek neidecker 
Sophomore mark Frego im­mediately took control of the fight. His right jabs and strong right hook allowed him to push senior Derek Neidecker around the ring. In the second round, Frego knocked Neidecker down with a hard punch to the face. Neidecker attempted to turn the fight in his favor in the third round, but could not pull through as Frego combined a mix of right and left jabs, which kept Neidecker on the defense. Frego claimed the victory by unanimous decision. 
mike “the shoog” falvey def. daniel “Jet” lee 
Freshman Daniel lee opened the fight with a strong left hook, but it was junior mike Falvey who ultimately won the fight by unanimous decision. The fight was quick-paced, as Falvey and lee both fought by throwing rapid series of left and right jabs. In the third round, both Falvey 
see BOUTS PAGE 17 

WAkinG thE EchoEs | ERIk CONDRA 
Condra excels in Ottowa 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 

Even with the fairly recent development of the NHl Winter Classic, very few hockey play­ers get the opportunity to play the high-level outdoor games, matches the participants say are reminiscent of their child­hood days on the pond. 
No. 12 Notre Dame will have just that opportunity this week­end when they take on No. 3 miami (Ohio) at Soldier Field, but one of the team’s alum­ni has already lived out that dream. 
Erik Condra, a 2009 Notre Dame graduate, had the chance to compete outside when he played with the Binghamton Senators of the American Hockey league and had some advice for his alma mater. 
“Outdoor games are a lot of fun,” Condra said. “It’s like go­ing back to pond hockey like you’re a little kid, but those guys still have to keep their heads up. I made the mistake of thinking I was back playing shinny on the pond again and got buried. There’s still guys coming for you, and it’s still a regular season game.” 
While Condra’s professional career is just beginning, the game with Binghamton is far from the only dream he’s realized. 
Condra starred at right wing at Notre Dame, lead­ing the team in scoring dur­ing all four of his seasons in South Bend. After leading the Irish to a CCHA championship as captain his senior year, he moved on to Binghamton, the Ottawa Senators’ minor-league affiliate. A former seventh-round pick, Condra quickly made a name for himself in the Senators’ organization. 
And when he helped lead Binghamton to an AHl title in 2011, Condra finally got the call up to the big club. 
“There’s some days when you’re in the minors and you think you have no chance, but I realized that you just need to work hard and get your break, and then make the most of it,” he said. “I was lucky enough to play well when I got called up, and do just that.” 
Condra quickly took ad­vantage of his opportunity in Ottawa, where he tallied 11 points in 26 games and became the first Senators rookie in over a decade to register two multi-goal games. in over a decade to 
see CONDRA PAGE 18 






