The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 28 | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Donation funds new architecture building 
School of Architecture will move from Bond Hall to the Walsh Family Hall of Architecture 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
news writer 
matthew and Joyce walsh made a $27 million donation to build a new 60,000 square-foot architec­ture building east of the debartolo performing arts center to alleviate the space problem in bond hall. 
michael lykoudis, dean of the school of architecture, said, bond hall is “bursting at the seams.” 
“every square inch is used over and over, double-booked,” lykoudis said. 
The school of architecture will vacate bond hall, lykoudis said, but other plans have not been made yet for the building. lykoudis also said plans have not been set for the beginning of the construction, but the new building will be built in the classical style to blend in with the other buildings on campus. 
The new space will open up many opportunities to the archi­tecture students, lykoudis said. 
“The opening of the new building allows the school of architecture to introduce two new disciplines: historic preservation and real estate and community 
see archiTecTure PAGE 5 

Photo courtesy of Ssantera 
Bond Hall currently houses the School of Architecture. A $27 million donation from Matthew and Joyce Walsh will finance the Walsh Family Hall of Architecture and allow for two new graduate programs. 


‘good morning america’ broadcasts from campus 
By WENDY HATCH 

news writer  
bright lights, cameras and a  
crowd of women in pink woke  
the echoes quite early Tuesday  
morning  as  they  cheered  
for  breast  cancer  aware­ 
ness  on  national  television.  
in honor of the first day of  
october, which is breast cancer  
awareness month, crews from  
abc’s “good morning america”  
came to south bend to do a re­ 
mote live shooting in front of  
the hesburgh library featuring  WENDY HATCH | The Observer  
Notre Dame cheerleaders kick off Breast Cancer Awareness Month with  
see gma PAGE 4  Paqui Kelly and supporters of Kelly Cares on Tuesday.  



Shamrock Series offers volunteer opportunities 
By KATIE SISK 
news writer 
Fans will travel to dallas this weekend to cheer for the irish in this year’s shamrock series game against arizona state, and a group of notre dame alumni and friends plan to make a lasting impact on a Texas charity while they are in town. 
alumni association president erin o’connor French and spiritual director angie appleby purcell collaborated with catholic charities usa to bring volun­teers to the assessment center of Tarrant county in Fort worth, Texas, purcell said. participants will renovate the building and support the children served at the center by painting walls, building picnic tables and offering mon­etary donations. 
purcell said the alumni association organizes volunteer events annually to coincide with shamrock series games and notre dame’s bowl games to show gener­osity to the extended community beyond campus. 
“other folks, other teams and other people may be gathering for the social aspect, which of course we are too, but for notre dame it is very important for us to give back to the local community, particularly 
see volunTeer PAGE 5 


SENATE 

coccia addresses alma mater policy 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 

in wednesday’s meeting, student senate addressed concerns over the football team’s policy to not sing the alma mater after home losses and potential innovations at card services. 
student body president alex coccia said he had met with officials in the football office, varsity leprechaun Johnny romano and senior matt cunningham, president of the leprechaun legion, to discuss the team’s policy re­garding the alma mater. 
coccia said the football of­fice is considering their re­sponse to the policy, but irish coach brian kelly has the fi­nal decision. 
senate hosted scott kachmarik, director of aux­iliary services, to talk about 
developments  with  student  
id cards.  
over  the  past  several  

years, kachmarik said, card services, which has relocated to the fourth floor of grace hall, has been trying to mod­ernize and update the id card system. 
“what we’re trying to do is make a better program,” he said. “we want the card to be a standalone enterprise. a lot of places — michigan, northwestern, for example — have branded their card. we want to create a rewards pro­gram and launch the irish1 brand.” 
currently, card services is in the process of finding a new director. next week, three applicants will be visit­ing campus to meeting with student focus groups and student government mem­bers, kachmarik said. 
kachmarik said card services hopes to expand the off-campus domer dollars program in the next year. 
“we started off small on eddy street right off campus, but we’d like to get to a point where all the places you go off campus are accepting domer dollars.” 
world’s Famous bbQ in roseland, cvs and penn station are the latest local business to join the program, while 7-eleven and marco’s are slated to come on board in the next several months, kachmarik said. 
senior class president carolina wilson said she is 
see senaTe PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 irish Top iu PAGE 16 waking The echoes PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What’s on your tray in the dining hall? 

Catherine Levy 
Freshman welsh Family hall 
“stir Fry.” 
Danny Forney 
Junior dillon hall 
“yogurt.” 
Josh Napierkowski 
sophomore Fisher hall 
“bowl of chili.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Kyle Walsh 
Junior 
dillon hall 
“cinnamon Toast crunch.” 
Nikki Murgas 
sophomore 
pangborn hall 
“Quinoa.” 
Shannon Bugos 
sophomore 
pangborn hall 
“Quaker oats oatmeal squares.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Tori roeck cole schietinger Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
lesley stevenson isaac lorton henry gens conor kelly 
Graphics Scene 

samantha coughlin kevin noonan Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Photo Viewpoint 

emily kruse caroline lang Yoder Dialogues: Discussion: Hyper-Mara Fox 5K Run Family Film: “My Red Mass kevin song 
“Building Just Peace Incarceration Series Lyons Hall Neighbors the The Basilica in Columbia” Geddes Hall 10 a.m.-1 p.m. Yamadas” 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Hesburgh Center 12 p.m.-1 p.m. $15 registration fee DeBartolo Performing Annual mass blessing 
Corrections 

11 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Drinks and dessert includes long-sleeved Arts Center those who serve in 
The observer regards itself as Featuring founder of provided. shirt and breakfast. 3 p.m.-4:45 p.m. law and politics. RSVP a professional publication and 
Justapaz. Anime comedy. required. 
strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, 
Women’s Soccer Feast of St. Francis Film: “Blue Jasmine” Hockey Exhibition The Pope Unfiltered 
however, recognize that we will make 
Alumni Stadium South Quad DeBartolo Performing Game Coleman-Morse Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-1 p.m. Arts Center Compton Ice Arena 8:00 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Game against Wake Bring your bicycle to 6:30 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 5:05 p.m.-7:05 p.m. Panel discussion on 
we can correct our error. 

Forest. be blessed. Directed by Woody Allen. Game against Guelph. the Pope’s interview. 

ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2013 | The observer 

Jordan Hall installs ‘cutting-edge’ telescope 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 
The new sarah l. krizmanich telescope atop notre dame’s Jordan hall of science will soon bring planets and stars from gal­axies far, far away within reach of notre dame students and faculty members, physics professor peter garnavich said. 
“it’s pretty impressive, and i’ve seen a lot of telescopes,” garnavich said. “i’ve been, as many of us have been, waiting for a long time for this telescope. it’s very exciting now that it’s arrived, and it hasn’t disappointed.” 
The latest addition to Jordan hall’s cutting-edge technology will allow physics professors and undergraduates alike to inves­tigate distant stars and galaxies with unprecedented ease and clarity, associate physics professor chris howk said. 
“The idea is that undergradu­ates who are taking advanced astrophysics courses will be able to come up here and do projects with this telescope,” howk said. 
“upper-level undergraduates, mostly physics majors, who are doing their own observational ex­periments will be able to come up here and use this.” 
computer scientists and other non-physics majors could also benefit from the telescope and from the experience of using the device, garnavich said. 
“we are providing a telescope which is very much like the cut-ting-edge professional telescopes around the world,” he said. “in fact, this is a professional telescope. and the goal really is to be able to train our students to use the bigger telescopes. 
“we hope to have a set up so that almost anyone that has some ex­perience with telescopes can use it.” 
howk said three light-collecting mirrors make up the telescope and work collectively to focus and direct the light from distant stars. That light creates an image as­tronomers can view either with an eyepiece or a digital camera. 
“The primary mirror is 32 inches across, and that makes it one of the biggest in the whole state, certain­ly one of the biggest on a campus in the state,” howk said. 
garnavich said finding a tele­scope with a large primary mirror was a priority, even though the de­vice had to be compact enough to fit in a 14-foot circular dome on the 
“It’s pretty impressive, and I’ve seen a lot of telescopes.” 
Peter Garnavich 
professor 
physics 
Jordan hall rooftop. 
“my goal was always to get the largest aperture telescope we could possibly afford,” he said. “The bigger, the better. more light-collecting area for the mir­ror means more stars you can see, fainter stars, more galaxies. it just opens up a lot more volume of the universe.” 
a specialized image collec­tor called a charge couple device (ccd) will be added to the tele­scope in the coming weeks, garnavich said. 
“it’s sort of like a monster cam­era similar to the things that are in your cell phone and everything else,” howk said. “what we want to do is be able to see with very low light and low noise.” 
The ccd, along with wiring to the dome aperture that is still in the works, will also allow students and professors to control and look through the telescope remotely. 
“in theory, we can be at home at three o’clock in the morning when the telescope frees up,” garnavich said. “Then we can sit in our paja­mas and observe, then close it up at the end of the night.” 
howk said the device, which was donated by the krizmanich family, will give students and pro­fessors more freedom to test new ways of using telescopes and col­lecting data. 
“The skies in south bend aren’t necessarily known for their clar­ity, but the types of things you can do are ones where you either need to experiment, because you aren’t 

literary critic discusses souls 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
do badgers have souls? british literary critic Terry eagleton framed his lecture around this question when he spoke at the a short biography of eagleton snite museum of art wednesday and his influence in contempo­afternoon. rary literary criticism. 
english department chair “Though many literary critics valerie sayers introduced the draw their fan base from within topic of souls and literature with their specified field, mr. eagleton 
paid adverTisemenT 


is actually read by the public,” sayers said. “his capacious un­derstanding of the interplay be­tween religious faith and leftist politics as well as his author­ity on aesthetics have led him to write more than literary criti­cism, including a novel, a mem­oir and a screenplay,” she said. 
To address the question of whether badgers have souls, eagleton said inquirers should look at their bodies. 
“look at what they do. as the philosopher ludwig wittgenstein said, ‘if you want to look at the soul, look at the body 
— the body as practice, the body as project,’” eagleton said. 
eagleton said “practice consti­tutes the life of the body,” which gives it more significance than conventional understanding might hold. 
“people are more than parcels of matter, not because they har­ness a soul, but because they are highly particular,” eagleton said. 
souls, however, ought to be defined more tangibly, accord­ing to eagleton. 
“you can see someone’s soul all the time, just as you ‘see’ someone’s rage or grief,” he said. “There is a confusion of lan­guage games, as if asking where the soul is amounts to asking ‘how close to my left armpit is my envy?’  The soul isn’t a ghost­ly liver or a spectral kidney. it’s the natural force of a being, as Thomas aquinas writes.” 
as a literary critic, eagleton said language needs to be grap­pled with to understand the soul, and the question of wheth­er or not badgers have them. he said a soul relates to a body like a meaning relates to a word, not necessarily attached, but sure it’s going to work, or you need to have access to a part of the sky over a long period of time,” he said. 
The physics department dedi­cated the telescope sept. 20 and used it for the first time Friday, howk said. 
“we looked at what’s called a planetary nebula. it’s a little fuzzy ball of gas in most telescopes, but most telescopes are smaller than this,” garnavich said. “when we looked at it, it was spectacular. it looked brighter and more dis­tinct than i’ve ever seen it before with the naked eye through a telescope.” 
howk said the physics depart­ment hopes to inspire students to use the telescope for individual research. 
“The important thing is that ultimately this is really for the students,” howk said. “For the students to be able to come out here and say ‘wow i get to use this thing,’ and for it to be their tele­scope, that’s pretty powerful stuff.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
the former in each pair is more profound. 
because bodies are tangible, eagleton said the most suitable human language is metaphor because it is tangible, allowing readers to experience the world discursively. 
“some say that since badgers lack language, they lack souls. but if souls are understood as simply a natural driving force, then how to do we answer the question ‘do badgers have souls?’” he said “yes, badgers do have souls in this sense. Just look at them. only because we have a misguided perception of the soul would we think otherwise. 
“but the possessive ‘have’ is a misleading word. you can’t just get rid of a soul, like you can a piece of rubbish,” eagleton said. 
Though badgers have souls by eagleton’s definition, he said there are still differences be­tween humanity and badgers. 
“we are conceptual bodies and can do things that badgers can’t do, like build cruise mis­siles and fire them at each other,” he said. 
in this way, eagleton said hu­manity is not unique in its pos­session of souls, but it does have its unique qualities. human ad­vancement was a move up, he said, but the destructive capa­bilities of modern society were anything but animalistic in his eyes. 
“This ‘move up’ is bibli­cally called the Fall, [but] not down toward the beast, that is, how animals act. They’re fine. They’re innocent. so, two cheers for badgers.” 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 



GMA 
conTinued From page 1 
the kelly cares Foundation and saint Joseph regional medical center’s mobile medical unit staff. 
in the segment, Tampa bay, new york city, chicago and south bend were highlighted. notre dame cheerleaders and the leprechaun participated in the filming, with crowds form­ing at 6 a.m. 
“Every story is unique but I hear too often, ‘If I’d only known.” 
Paqui Kelly 
co-founder 
Kelly Cares 
brian and paqui kelly launched the south bend-based kelly cares Foundation in 1997 following pacqui’s 2003 breast cancer diagnosis and subsequent recovery, ac­cording to the Foundation’s website. among their primary goals were promoting breast cancer awareness, funding education research and sup­port initiatives encouraging community engagement, the website said. 
paqui kelly said she was “very grateful” for the show’s presence and publicity. 
“i hope that this coverage will make someone stop and think, and then make an ap­pointment with their doctor,” she said. “every story is unique but i hear too often ‘if i’d only known.’” 
another group featured monday was saint Joseph regional medical center’s mobile medical unit, which comes to notre dame’s cam­pus once a month. The mobile medical unit is a 40-foot clinic on wheels that has a mammo­gram unit, encouraging wom­en to get checked regularly. 
monica hoban, an admin­istrative assistant in the main building, said the mobile medical unit may have saved her life. 
in 2010, hoban made a 30-minute round trip from her office to the mobile unit, and she said the mammogram re­sults showed three different breast tumors. now cancer-free for three years, hoban said the timing of her test was crucial. 
“if i would have waited an­other year, i don’t know if i’d be here today,” hoban said. 
she said she hopes the na­tional television coverage will motivate women out there, like her, who had put off getting mammograms to get one. 
“maybe [one] will see us,” she said, “we are sisters; like it or not, we are a part of this club. ... you reach a new nor­mal, [and] you become happy where you are.” 
Contact Wendy Hatch at whatch@nd.edu 

smc senate considers new formal 
By KELLY KONYA 
news writer 
as the united states senate stalls under a government shutdown, saint mary’s student senate gathered Tuesday night in a more co­operative manner to discuss the navy dance and each subdivision of student gov­ernment’s plans for october. 
vice president of the 2014 class board susie larson de­tailed a proposal for a dance with the naval academy, ex­plaining the probable costs of security, the dJ, catering, ticket prices and fees for spe­cial event services. 
“if a mere 323 students pur­chase a [$10] ticket, we will come out with a profit. we think that this will be a really fun tradition to start at saint mary’s,” larson said. 

class of 2015 president nicole o’Toole and vice pres­ident emmie scanlon then presented a slideshow sum­mary of the proposal, includ­ing the total budget for the dance. 
scanlon said this is an eco­nomically viable option and a great event for the school. 
“a lot of girls have shown interest, all of our individual board members are excited for this event, and we think it would be a lot of fun,” scanlon said. 
o’Toole said the freshman, sophomore and junior classes are not having formal dances this semester, so the navy dance would be a great al­ternative for students. senate proceeded by approving the motion for the navy dance. 
student body president kat sullivan said she is pleased with the outcome of the decision. 
“it was important for the council of class boards to propose the navy dance 
“Our main goal this year is transparency, so it is important that we include our community in every decision we make.” 
Kat Sullivan 
student body president 
Saint Mary’s 
to the senate because they are the voice of the student body,” sullivan said. “as [stu­dent body vice president] maddy [martin] and i have reiterated, our main goal this year is transparency, so it is important that we include our community in every de­cision we make.” 
each big board on campus, including the residence hall association (rha), student diversity board (sdb) and the student activities board (sab), reported their ideas for october, including halloween events, an up­coming comedy show and their budget plans for the semester. 
each standing commit­tee also expressed their up­coming events for october, including the council of activities, council of clubs, council of class boards and council of committee chairs. 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2013 | The observer 


Panel presents on climate change debate 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
a panel of experts discussed climate shift at saint mary’s on Tuesday evening in time for Friday’s Feast of st. Francis. 
economics professor richard measell, chemistry and phys­ics professor chris dunlap and director of the center for spirituality elizabeth groppe spoke about different aspects of climate change in the talk, sponsored by the saint mary’s catholic common ground initiative. 
groppe spoke briefly on the catholic church’s position on climate change, drawing on the prudence of the common good. 
“using this virtue of pru­dence, bishops say … climate modeling is very complex and there are uncertainties and some differences between some of the different models, but using this intelligence is applied to action and reason carefully. prudence calls us to take action, [to] be respond­ing,” groppe said. 
dunlap presented scientific support of global warming with information from a work­ing group report from the intergovernmental panel on climate change. 

“we need to talk about what the heck global warming is about,” dunlap said. “we publish our data so others can challenge it. skepticism is good and it improves our model of what’s going on [with climate change].” 
measell said he is skeptical of global warming because he is not confident in scientific explanations. 
“a reason why i’m a skeptic is wondering about how one measures the temperature of the earth.  surface measures are gathered from all over the earth, and how to make that into one temperature particu­larly when you have missing data [is difficult],” he said. 
measell said we should con­sider the economic impact of changing our lifestyles in re­sponse to climate change. 
“There is a debate between those who call for radical changes in how we live to try to reduce greenhouse gases and those who argue that we would be better served by adapting to climate changes,” measell said.  “my concern is that do we undertake policies that re­duce our economic ability to respond to natural disasters, or do we focus on expanding our capacity to respond by increas­ing our wealth?” 
saint mary’s campus ministry will sponsor com­munity prayer during “a time of climate change” in the great hall of le mans hall each day this week from 12:15-12:30 p.m. 
groppe said she encour­ages saint mary’s students to take advantage of this week’s on-campus activities and op­portunities devoted to the spirit and Feast of st. Francis because of belles’ character and integrity. 
“saint mary’s prepares young women to become lead­ers who will help make the love of god manifest in the world and today your leadership is more important than ever,” groppe said. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
Architecture 
conTinued From page 1 
development. currently we do not have the capacity for these pro­grams,” lykoudis said. 
The new building will afford more space for studios and class­rooms, but will also allow students in different disciplines to inter­mingle, lykoudis said. in addition, it will expand even further the clas­sical department of the school, he said. 
“The new center for classical architecture will attract distin­guished leading scholars from all over the world to study classicism from antiquity to the present day,” lykoudis said. 
however, the new architecture building would not be possible without the generous gift from the walsh Family, he said. 
“matthew and Joyce walsh are members of the architecture advisory council. They have fol­lowed and supported the school since 1997 and they like us. They support the program and they wanted to make a gift that would actually make a difference,” lykoudis said. 
“i think they embrace the vision of the school, which is broad in its nature and deep in the sense of in­tellectual depth and interdisciplin­ary breadth and that they support us. They wanted to make sure they gave something that would last for a long time to the university.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 
Volunteer 
conTinued From page 1 
to those who are needy,” purcell said. 
when the notre dame commu­nity travels together, they hope to leave the place in a better state than when they arrived, French said. 
“This is a way for us to make a long-lasting impact … and make it worth-while for them to host notre dame and to leave a positive impact on those communities,” French said. 
The beneficiary of this project, 
Senate 
conTinued From page 1 
worried that with an expand­ed card system, the threat of fraud and theft would be more of an issue. she asked if card services might add a verifica­tion code to id cards. 
kachmarik said security was a high priority for all involved in card services. 
“you can go online and either deactivate your card if it has been stolen, or you can put it on hold if you think you’ve lost it but it will turn up,” he said. 
and atmosphere of the children’s temporary home. 
“what we’re trying to do is make it less clinical, less sterile and more home-like for these children,” she said. “it’s a tumultuous time for them, and a lot of them are quite young … so we’re going to paint and make it more home-like. we hope to do some planting work out in the outside of the building [and] we will work on the recess play areas for them depending on the number of volunteers.” 
purcell said members of the notre dame community who 

kachmarik said other pos­sibilities with the new card system, slated to launch in summer of 2015, include put­ting football tickets on stu­dent cards and extending the domer dollars plan to dorm eateries, as Zahm house has already done. 
senate also welcomed the new freshman class presi­dent andrew green, who was elected during this week’s Fcc meeting. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
cannot travel to Texas could still participate by donating $25 to sponsor a “welcome kit” for an in­coming child. 
“children who are coming to this center usually are coming with little or not much with them, so the welcome kits that the center offers children as they come is all that the children have to start with,” she said. “That includes … all the things that a child both literally needs but also some support and something fun that they may not have coming with them.” 
“it’s kind of a two-tiered ap­proach for how to engage our alumni community … both physi­cal labor-wise but also in terms of donating for the welcome kit.” 
The alumni association chose the assessment center because of its affiliation with catholic charities usa, with whom notre dame shares a connection as a partner and collaborator, purcell said. 
“we just thought it would be a great opportunity not only to serve the children who are themselves worthy of our time and energy, but also because we want to strength­en and unify our partnership as two pretty important catholic institutions to help the common good,” purcell said. 
any students traveling to the game who want to volunteer may sign up in the worthington renaissance hotel, from which the alumni association will pro­vide transportation, or show up at the assessment center of Tarrant county where the volunteering will take place from 2 to 5 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Katie Sisk at csisk1@nd.edu 
the assessment center of Tarrant county, serves as a home for chil­dren under the age of 17 who have been taken from their parents for child welfare concerns, French said. 
“its primary goal is to not only house these children in a safe envi­ronment, but it is a very holistic ap­proach to their education, to their psychological well-being, to their health, to their safety, with the goal being for these children to be re­united with their families,” purcell said. 
in line with this holistic approach, while the volunteers work on the building, the chil­dren will receive tours of dallas stadium, and many will attend the game as well, she said. 
“with children whose lives are really in turmoil and have faced far more obstacles and challenges in life than they should, we are hop­ing for an afternoon or weekend in which they can just be kids again and not have any worries other than just to have fun,” purcell said. 
French said the actual physical effort of the volunteers would go towards improving the comfort 


paid adverTisemenT 



Gabriela Leskur 
scene writer 

unlike engineering majors who explain, “i’m an engineer,” us crazy, plato-reading program of liberal studies kids cannot refer to ourselves by our future careers. 
but if we did, we would say, lawyer, author, doctor, artist, consultant, designer, teacher. 
and that’s just the short of it. 

This weekend, i had a small get-together with some of my fellow majors, and a few of my engineering friends stopped by. They asked us why we chose  pls and what ma­joring in pls means. while i can’t answer for all pls majors, i can speak for myself. 
my friend and i sometimes sound out the acronym pls like “plees?” although this pronunciation is usually due to our sleep deprivation and constant consumption of caffeine, our joke has truth to it. 
in charles dickens’ “oliver Twist,” oliver says, “please, sir, i want some more.” This search for more is what i feel defines pls for me and is the reason i decided to major in it. 
as crazy as it sounds, i don’t even really like reading. in high school, i was never the girl who walked around with a book in her hand every day. and yet, now i read hun­dreds of pages of material every week. 
why would i subject myself to this tor­ture? because when i finish reading, i get to go to class and talk about it. i sit around a table with amazing people talking about the implications of having a soul, debating the ways to use persuasion morally, questioning the purpose of human suffering. 
Just like icona pop, “i don’t care. i love it.” 
when i leave class, even if i’ve made a fool of myself, i’m happy. i’m excited i have more to read, more to learn, more to understand. 
while at notre dame, i will go from read­ing darwin to aquinas to euclid to homer to dostoyevsky. i’ve just begun my journey. 
i wanted a major that challenged me — my ability to think, argue, understand. i wanted to sit around with cool people and talk about things that matter. 
and that’s what i do. i sit, i talk, i read. i sit in the library surrounded by books for six hours, with only a highlighter and coffee. 
i talk to my professor about how bad my paper is and how i can improve it. i have heated discussions about ancient philoso­phers and the thoughts of diverse thinkers. 
as my business major friends are taking midterms, i’m working on three papers — one about a shakespearean sonnet, one about the death penalty and one about aristotle.  as my biology friends are cram­ming for finals, i’m preparing for my oral exam — which means walking into a room, prepared for my professor to ask me anything i’ve read over the last semester, requiring me to synthesize works and think critically on the spot. 
i like  that pls is all about looking for more. it’s not about finding the answers, but asking the questions. it’s about learning about the human experience and, on the way, learning how much you don’t know. 
so i guess what i’m saying is that i’m ma­joring in pls to learn that i know nothing. call me socrates. 
Gabe Griggs 
softening, reconciling and Forgiving 

over the past few weeks, i have been following the bbc crime drama broadchurch (spoiler alert!), and in following the series, i have been struck by the power of perception. This series follows the investigation of the murder of a young boy, danny latimer, in the small coastal town of broadchurch. broadchurch has never experienced a crime of this magni­tude, so the investigation that follows the crime casts deep suspicion over the whole town and its people. 
david bradley’s character Jack marshall exemplifies the destructive capacity of perception. marshall is a gruff conve­nience shop owner and leader of a boys group called the sea brigade. as the series develops, it is revealed that Jack marshall has a previous conviction for sex with a minor. This convic­tion leads the town to believe that Jack is the murderer. in one particularly moving scene, Jack marshall is preparing for a sea brigade meeting when a mob of angry men comes to his door and surrounds his building. 
one of the men leading this group is mark latimer, danny’s father. Jack divulges to mark the nature of his previous con­viction: he had a relationship with an underage girl whom he later married, but the two are now separated because of the grief of losing their son in a car accident. mark and Jack are linked, then, in two ways: They both lost a son and their wives were both underage when they met. “i’m just like you, mark,” Jack tells him. mark quickly realizes his mistake in accusing Jack and clears the mob. 
There is a similar twist that occurs later in the show. susan wright, one of the primary suspects, reveals that her husband was sexually abusing one of their children without her knowl­edge. susan then explains that upon this revelation, her son was taken away from her at birth and adopted by a woman in broadchurch. she is in town to reconnect with her son, but a night on the beach where she sees a man who strikingly resembles her son leads her to believe that he is guilty of the crime. This makes sense in her mind, as her son “is the son of his father.” 
The detective questioning susan wright, ellie miller, asks her, “how could you not know [that your husband was abusing your daughter]?” in the final turn of the series, ellie’s husband is revealed to be the killer. This very question gets turned around in ellie’s face, “how could you not know?”, by the mother of the murdered child. ellie does not have a response and she simply stares back in silence. 
There are countless stories illustrating the power of per­ception. yet we have to wonder, do we ever learn anything from these stories? do we actually relate to people differently because of the lessons we learn from these stories? perhaps most importantly, do we ourselves act differently because of what we learn from these stories? in what way would we act differently? 
broadchurch is layered with examples of the intricacy of human relations. perhaps its most profound revelation is that if we look hard enough, we are all alike. mark is similar to Jack. ellie is similar to susan. if we are to relate to each other differ­ently as a result of this understanding, perhaps the takeaway is that we must realize how similar we are to one another. 
i know a lot of people here whose company i enjoy and whose insights in the classroom i appreciate.  but i have also seen many of these people at some of their worst moments, particularly on Friday nights or in moments of frustration on the athletic field. it is difficult to accept the complexity of the totality of their actions. what i see is only a snapshot of their life and therefore a biased perception of who they are. had i seen snapshots of particular moments in my own life, i would be left wondering the same question: how can i reconcile the good with the bad? we see this even in the lives of the saints in their darkest moments. if we did not know the final story, would we have guessed that peter, who denied christ three times, would have become the rock of the church? 
we cannot help but perceive and make judgments, and in­complete and incorrect perceptions are unavoidable. The key to our relationships, though, is realizing that we are all fallen, and in this regard, we are all the same. it is for this very rea­son, in fact, that our perceptions are necessarily incomplete. in recognizing our own fallenness, we are better equipped to overcome our incomplete perceptions, see people for who they really are and more properly treat our neighbors as ourselves. 
Gabe Griggs is a senior in the Program of Liberal Studies. He can be reached at ggriggs@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Not a song, but a prayer 
i am writing to urge coach kelly to reconsider his policy of not allowing the team to sing “notre dame, our mother” after home football loses. 
his rationale, besides being ludicrous (worried about the battle-hardened pigskin warriors like nix and Tuitt “being exposed” after they’ve been pummeled by 300-pound behemoths for 60 minutes?!), totally misses the point. 
The nd alma mater isn’t just a tradition — it’s a prayer. is coach kelly really going to hold fast to the policy that the players need to be in the locker room “under his guidance” rather than with the student community, praising and praying for the guid­ance of our lady? 
For the good of the players, his own reputation and that of the university — coach kelly should admit the policy was a mis­take and change it. 
Joe Zarantonello 
alumus class of 1971 oct. 1 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“i like to believe that people in the long run are going to do more to promote peace than our governments. indeed, i think that people want peace so much that one of these days governments had better get out of the way and let them have it.” 
Dwight D. Eisenhower 
Former U.S. President 


Contact Gabriela at gleskur@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Alum’s perpective on fan negativity 
i am appalled at the behavior of the nd fans this season, especially the intense negativity of my fellow alumni. i have deep ties to the university; my four brothers and i all graduated from nd and my daughter is currently a student and a member of the band. i have lived through many less than stellar football seasons, but i cannot recall cruelty like this on the part of the fans. since critical voices are frequently louder than those of the true believers, i feel compelled to make my voice heard… 
during the michigan state game, i sat in the end zone facing Touchdown Jesus among a group of younger alumni. before the kick off, several alumni “fans” began criticizing the individual players and the coaches and com­menting about how pathetic the team was this year. (most of their remarks were full of expletives that i don’t care to repeat.) i tried to tune them out; as a fierce and loyal fan, it was painful to listen to their malicious banter. i actually thought i might be more comfortable sitting with the michigan state fans! i guess my upbringing as a die-hard chicago cubs fan taught me a thing or two about staying faithful to a team in good times and in bad. 
anyway, here is what i believe: 
every one of our players puts his whole heart and soul into their perfor­mance at every game. These guys strive for excellence everyday and they should be commended for their tremendous effort. They have an intense desire to win football games for themselves and for the university. Just watch some youTube videos of the player interviews — especially those of louis nix — and you will see some of the passion for winning and ex­cellence all the players share. They all have flaws, but they all work to overcome them on a daily basis. Tommy rees never claimed to be an elite quarterback; he just humbly goes out there and does what the coaches ask him to do to the best of his ability. To viciously attack rees for some un­fortunate mistakes is immature and counter-productive. undermining his confidence and demoralizing him will not help win ballgames. 
in the words of Troy niklas, “we are all just organisms fighting and striving to endure.” The players all deserve our support in times of adver­sity, not our condemnation, as they “strive to endure.” i believe that all of our players are capable of greatness and we have seen glimpses of that greatness in every game so far. one of the best things about watching the irish play is anticipating that next awesome display of talent and heart. 
yes, football is just a sport so there will always be mistakes and question­able calls and bad luck. last year’s undefeated season was a gift to all the fans, but that was a rare and magical occurrence that will not be duplicat­ed anytime soon. 
as graduates of this great university, we should be ready to embrace ad­versity, see it as a challenge, and then move forward with hope as we face the future. granted, football is just a game, an exciting diversion for the fans. but, for the players it is life, it is their future. 
perhaps the nd band provides the perfect example of the behavior all fans should emulate. They support the team with enthusiasm all game long. Then, after each home game, in victory or defeat, they head out of the stadium in perfect precision. Their stoic faces do not betray their inner emotions as they march to the drum cadence. as they approach the ricci band rehearsal hall, they break into their signature trot and start chant­ing encouragement for a victory over the next opponent. after our painful loss to oklahoma last saturday, the band members reminded us to set our sights on a new day and look with hope and optimism towards the next challenge. 
go irish, beaT sun devils. 
Maribeth Meaux 
alumna class of ‘83 oct. 1 

Thank you, notre dame 
To the Fighting irish, 

last Friday, i set out on a trip to drive and watch my beloved sooners go toe-to-toe with one of the most prestigious collegiate athletic teams in his­tory. what i did not anticipate was how far and beyond my expectations this experience would be. ideal scenario? a road win to make the 13­hour drive home feel less like an eternity. 
however, when i look back on this weekend, i hesitate to even mention the football game — something like that, as great as it turned out to be, was completely overshadowed by how gracious, kind and, simply put, incredible the university of notre dame family was. There was never a mo­ment without a welcoming spirit. 
i sincerely want to thank you for illustrating a beautiful image of what your university stands for, and what all universities should strive for. it surely does not go unnoticed. 
Danny Wyatt 

guest of the university norman, okla. oct. 1 
Getting what we paid for 
lou holtz was hired as head coach in 1986 with a supposed salary of about $75,000. sports illustrated noted, “The money really may not be that important; the football coaching job at notre dame isn’t some­thing to be bargained over — it’s a prize, if tendered, to be accepted.” 
holtz made a remarkable comment last year: “college football’s better when notre dame’s on top, where they are now.” he insists, “notre dame isn’t better; college football is better.” if you listen to holtz provide commentary on notre dame, it’s obvious that he sets notre dame as the standard for excellence. 
historically, our standards have been unique. in 2001, the la Times wrote, “For all its football success, notre dame has not paid market price for coaches.” supposedly, under Fr. hesburgh, no coach was paid more than the highest-paid professor. but we changed. Ty willingham was hired that year for $1.5 million. he was fired in 2004. when asked about what went wrong, he said, “we didn’t win football games.” There’s only one thing: win. That’s it. That’s the bottom line. win. 
after the firing, professor ralph mcinerny wrote in an article titled “The Firing irish,” “The point of an athletic contest is to win, but how one wins and loses is crucial for players and fans alike.” The sad thing about the willingham firing is that winning at all costs now seems paramount. Fans are by definition fa­natic, but a university administration should take a longer view. 
holtz may have been the last coach who worked for notre dame. now the coach works for wins, and “that’s it.” we’re not the standard anymore. we’re just like everyone else. 
we can’t “win the right way” if we don’t hire and fire the right way. (weis’ buyout may cost more than 250 times holtz’s salary, by the way.) we hired kelly to do what he’s doing. he’s free to cut the alma mater and to interview with the eagles. we don’t offer a “prize” now; we offer a job. cutting the alma mater after losses is just getting what we paid for. 
Christopher Damian 
alumus class of 2013 oct. 1 


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 

The devil may have a talk show, but for tonight at least, he’s in indianapolis. 
anthony Jeselnik, standup comedi­an and host of comedy central’s “The Jeselnik offensive,” took part in a confer­ence call with a number of college news­papers Tuesday, including The observer, to talk about his current tour, his success­ful television show (which he describes as “if the devil had a talk show”) and his in­famously dark sense of humor. 
Jeselnik started his current tour, “anthony Jeselnik: live,” sept. 12 in Tarrytown, n.y., on the heels of the sec­ond season finale of his critically ac­claimed late night talk show, which the 
a.v. club’s kevin mcFarland said made him laugh more consistently than any show on television. 
Jeselnik talked first and foremost about what to expect from his current tour. 
“people who like the show, they like the offensive dark humor, they get exactly that from my stand up. it might not be as topical as the show would be, i try to keep my jokes evergreen and universal, so you 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 
“start acting your age.” 

it’s something we’ve all heard at some point. on the great road to adulthood, we find ourselves running into as many lim­its as new opportunities. 
when i turned 10, my mom finally let me chew gum more than, say, once per year. but i couldn’t pull it out of my mouth and wrap it around my finger anymore or i’d lose it. it was the best of times, it was the worst of times. 
For a while it seemed like danny brown would never start acting his age. The 32-year-old rapper’s ridiculous energy, eccentric haircut, and crazy gap tooth grin echoes his teenage contemporaries (think odd Future) rather than those his age. his rap voice skirts the edge of ma­niacal laughter; most of his raps are best described as hysterical, taunting rants. 
his rhymes are clever, defiant, and boast enough drug references to make three new seasons of “breaking bad.” 
his breakout album “XXX,” released when brown was 30, sounded as if some can tell them to your friends for the rest of your life. i have a ton of new material since my last special, and it’s exactly the same kind of things; anything you think shouldn’t be joked about, i’ve got at least two jokes about it,” Jeselnik said. 
one of the common questions Jeselnik gets is if there’s a line he won’t cross with his jokes; anyone who’s listened to any of his stand-up can probably predict what his answer is, even if his off-camera per­sona isn’t quite the edgy, uncompromis­ing smarminess he embodies on stage (he actually sounds like a pretty nice guy). 
“everyone has their own line in com­edy, but i don’t care about that. i’m trying to obliterate them all and make people laugh at a subject they normally wouldn’t. my goal is not to offend people or shock people, but it happens, because you can’t get everybody. 
“but i want to surprise someone with a joke about autism that makes them laugh. and it’s not necessarily making fun of au­tism or making fun of people with it, but using that subject that heads into the joke so that the punch line can be that much stronger,” Jeselnik said. 
with such a dark comic style, it’s no 
prodigious child rapper and some prodi­gious child producer had teamed up to make a record during their stay in a men­tal hospital. 
That youthful energy fit perfectly in to­day’s concert culture, where many people attend concerts hoping to get crazy in the safest way possible. with the release of “XXX,” brown ascended from an obscure oddity into an indie-rap sensation. The al­bum earned danny an album-of-the-year award from “spin magazine,” a spot at coachella music Festival, and over a hun­dred thousand fans on Facebook. 
danny brown’s “forever young” per­sona earned him immense success. as a matter of course, many fans assumed that danny brown would be forever young 
— forever. 
in december 2012, danny announced that his new album would be titled “old.” at the time, the implications of the title were unclear. 
was danny being ironic? was he hint­ing at a concept album built around his then-recently released single “grown up?” or did it indicate that danny was changing his sound completely? 

surprise that Jeselnik has drawn some flak from offended parties in his career. it’s not that his jokes are unfunny; a segment on the first season of his show that featured him telling cancer jokes to cancer patients drew widespread praise. 
but when the boston marathon was bombed on april 15 of this year, Jeselnik’s sense of humor caused a firestorm of controversy. 
“i like to tweet jokes the day of trag­edies … i’m a comedian, and of course there’s nothing funny about the boston marathon, but when it happened i kind of take it as my duty to try to make a joke about it, make the best joke that i can and try to make someone laugh on a horrible day,” Jeselnik said. 
The evening of the bombing he sent out a tweet saying, “There are some lines that just shouldn’t be crossed today. especially the finish line.” 
he said the reaction was mixed, but there was a significant amount of intense hatred for the joke, specifically from his bosses at comedy central. There was even talk of Jeselnik losing his show. 
“There was a huge conversation over whether or not i should take the joke 
it turns out that “old” is a bit of every­thing. The beats on “old” are toned down from his previous record, consistently cleaner and more focused. danny’s rap voice is more diverse and sometimes veers into unrecognizably calm territory. on tracks like “Torture” and “clean up,” danny becomes almost unrecognizable as he raps about his difficult childhood. The danny that we used to know who only rapped sex and drugs spits lines like “gunshots outside was sorta like fire-works/we know they ain’t fireworks, it’s december 21st” and “i’m tired of seein’ my family ****** up and hungry.” 
Thankfully, danny doesn’t give up his old style completely. he’s still full of bril­liantly ridiculous lines, most memora­bly “like lieutenant dan, i’m rollin’” on “dip.” The beats on “old” still veer away from standard boom-bap, filled with mis­chievously goofy synth lines and mon­strous drum beats. additionally, “old” features array of artists from rappers like a$ap rocky and schoolboyQ to indie-pop phenoms purity ring and charli XcX that diversify the album’s sound without breaking its cohesion. 
down, should i apologize. i would never apologize for a joke, and i had never had to take down a joke, which i hated hav­ing to do. but i did it for the betterment of the show because i’m not going to tell my cameraman that he’s fired because i wouldn’t delete a tweet,” Jeselnik said. 
but don’t get too caught up in the con­troversy; Jeselnik’s personality off-stage (at least for the 20 minutes of the phone interview) is much less cutthroat than his persona when performing. The man’s a notre dame fan for goodness sake, he can’t be that bad. 
“my dad went to notre dame, my sister went to saint mary’s, and my other two sis­ters went to holy cross for a couple years. i went to school in new orleans, which is kind of the opposite, but i still love notre dame. i hung out on campus all the time when i was a kid going to games, and i’m still a big fan,” Jeselnik said. 
Jeselnik performs at the egyptian room at old national in indianapolis tonight at 7 p.m. Tickets can be purchased through his website at anthonyjeselnik.com. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
at the end of the day, “old” is a strong record with a host of interesting beats headed by a talented lyricist. danny’s exploring new territory; his efforts aren’t quite as exciting as before but they are more focused. he’s changing and coming to terms with his age and it will be a while before he really grows into it. overall, “old” may be a new danny, but it’s still danny, and that’s a relief. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“Old” 
Danny Brown 
Label: Fool’s Gold Records Tracks: “Side A (Old),” “Clean Up” If you like: Action Bronson, Das Racist 


SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WEEKEND EvENTS CaLENDaR 
THURSDAY 

What: The House I Live In 
Where: DPAC 
When: 7 p.m. 
How Much: Free 

The 2012 sundance Festival’s grand Jury prize winner in the documentary category, this attack on america’s war on drugs examines the issue and tries to find reason behind the millions of arrests and wasted lives. critics called the film powerful, angry and, most of all, disturbingly educational about what it considers to be one of the big­gest problems in american society. 
FRIDAY 

What: Red Jumpsuit Apparatus Where: Legends When: 10 p.m. How Much: Free 
This Florida rock band celebrates its 10th anniversary this year, and released a new ep, “et Tu, brute?” this spring. They come to legends on Friday night to bring their emo pop, alternative style to notre dame. 

SATURDAY 

What: On The Verge Where: DPAC When: 7:30 p.m. How Much: $5 
This play, from “law & order” and “The wire” writer eric overmyer, fol­lows the adventures of three time-traveling victorian women as they encounter weird, wacky and comical characters. if you don’t have time to see the play (directed by renee roden ’14) on saturday, it’s also showing Thursday through sunday, oct. 13. 
SUNDAY 

What: This Is the End 
Where: DeBartolo 101 
When: 1 p.m. 
How Much: $3 
seth rogen and evan goldberg, the writing team behind “superbad,” make their directorial debut with this send up of apocalyptic movies. with a cast that includes James Franco, craig robinson, danny mcbride, Jonah hill and Jay baruchel, the film mixes immature potty humor with mature potty humor, all with hilari­ous results. 

John Darr and Daniel Barabasi 
scene writers 

Editors note: In the wake of Britney Spears’ new single and Kanye West’s recent outbursts (not to mention all of Miley’s antics), the Scene Staff simply couldn’t find a way to deal with the pop-culture chaos. While the rest of the staff sat para­lyzed, anxiously awaiting the premiere of Britney’s new music video and still process­ing Kanye’s “Yeezus” publicity tour sound bites, two brave Scene writers rolled the superstars into one big, brave (and, it must be noted, satirical and fictional) column. 
during an attack on a snoopy paparaz­zo last weekend, kanye west reportedly yelled that “‘work b**ch’ has done more for america than you or your family will dream of doing.” Today, we brought him into the studio to explain why he thinks “work b**ch,” britney spears’ new single, is the song the nation needs right now. 
“well, it’s more than a song,” he told us. “it’s a statement of a generation tired of unemployment, tired of obesity, tired of bad music. britney’s struggled with all of that, really, and here she’s trying to help the people out. like my mother once said, you can’t get enough plastic surgery if you believe in a better you.” 
we asked him what he thought about the new britney vs. the old britney and what direction she’s moving in artisti­cally with her latest release. 
“it’s obvious that what almost killed her has made her stronger,” kanye said. “i mean, take what ‘work b**ch’ has to offer musically. will.i.am. in the studio. anthony preston in the studio. sebastian ingrosso and otto knows. These guys came together and tore down dance mu­sic and built it up again — there’s bass on every beat. we’re talking one, maybe two chords here. synthesizers. it’s insanity. 

“and the lyrics. i can’t have written this. it’s too great, too relevant. it’s the statement of our generation. like the messages. if you want something, you have to work for it. mind-blowing. and get this — obscure references even i didn’t know. like, what is a bugatti? what is a France? Thank god for urban dictionary. apparently, it’s in paris. it’s what you know.” 
but what about the violent language? The curse words? should kids be exposed to this monster of a song? 
“sometimes you have to force these things even if america isn’t ready. look at ‘breaking bad,’ bringing excessive violence and language into family rooms and dentists’ offices nationwide. and ‘game of Thrones,’ excessive nudity. america needs this, man. nobody likes watching these shows, and no reason­able person would accept them as ‘appropriate’ or ‘constructive,’ but it’s our duty, man. we have to be soldiers of knowledge, and it’s The crusades. 
“That’s what britney is saying. you’re fat? you’re probably a b**ch. don’t have a maserati? b**ch. don’t live in France? imma not go there, even. That’s embar­rassing. like, you should work like i have and build an empire from the earth, and until then, you just have to watch me sit on my throne.” 
kanye west has asked that all com­plaints about statements made in the in­terview be mailed to stetson Furnaces in new york, where they will be incinerated. his newest album, “yeezus,” is available in most stores where music is sold. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu and Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Manning reaches new heights 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
staff writer 
peyton manning is just too good. 
i know people probably don’t want to hear about this old guy anymore. you can’t turn on espn without hearing his name. For goodness sake, manning even has had his own bottomline category before. This clown has dominated nFl headlines for 16 seasons. yet, this year, manning deserves it more than ever. The man is 37 years old and playing the best football of his life. 
no one has ever reveled in manning’s athleticism or physi­cal gifts. i mean we’re talking about a quarterback who ran a 
5.27 second 40-yard dash just last fall. on top of that, since his 35th birthday, manning has had four neck surgeries and a spinal fusion surgery. however, it would be hard to argue that there is a better player in profes­sional sports right now. 
if you haven’t heard, manning is averaging four passing touch­downs a game, has yet to throw an interception and is complet­ing 75 percent of his passes. i guess it’s pretty impressive when you lead the nFl in every major passing statistic. 
This is a man who, for years, has won on the back of his un­believable knowledge of the game, coupled with a vicious work ethic. in indianapolis, be­fore a game with suspect weath­er conditions, manning would practice taking snaps while, in full uniform, a shower poured water over him. manning would also soak both of his hands and practice footballs in ice water so that they were cold and numb when he practiced before a cold weather game. 
known to call his own plays throughout his career, manning probably says more in one pre-snap audible than new england’s bill belichick does in a season’s worth of postgame interviews. it is impossible to talk about any player having a high football iQ without think­ing of peyton manning. For goodness sake, the man pretty much invented the term. so, at 37, with a deteriorating body, manning’s brain and wisdom continue to dominate the game. 
after only one full season in denver, manning has com­pletely rewritten the broncos offensive culture. on sunday, manning and co. abso­lutely dominated the flashy philadelphia eagles in a 52-20 rout. Following the game, start­ing wide receiver eric decker spoke with sports illustrated’s peter king. 
“i think a big part of it is we all want to win for this guy,” decker said. “The line plays like, ‘don’t let peyton get hit.’ The receivers are like, ‘run that route exactly the way it should be run.’ i also think it has to do with our expectations. even af­ter a game like this, the attitude in the locker room was, ‘That was good, not great.’ That’s peyton.” 
manning has always de­manded more from his team­mates. in a league where the best players often make their teammates better, manning exemplifies this trait. 
every monday, the broncos offense gets together, without any coaches, and breaks down the game film. let me reiter­ate, this is player-organized and player-run. would you be shocked if i told you this was started by manning last fall and that he leads these sessions? i hope not. 
sure, this isn’t an article highlighting some stud player no one knows about. yeah, i started to write this piece about Tennessee cornerback alterraun verner, who is the best defensive back in the nFl through four games. in case you’re wondering, quarter­backs have a combined passer rating of 12.9 when throwing at him and he leads the nFl in takeaways. 
That’s a great story. it’s captivating, intriguing and eye-opening. regardless, the 2013 season has been all about peyton manning, especially if you want to talk about impres­sive performances. sure, it’s not original or trendy, but it must be talked about. we are witnessing some of the best quarterback play the nFl has ever seen. i couldn’t live with myself if i passed up an opportunity to write about it. 
never in a four-game stretch, throughout his entire 16-year nFl career, has manning played this well. not once. it’s not like we’re dealing with a small sample size either; the old man has played in 228 nFl games. 
Folks, this greatness in the making. in a sport defined by unbelievable athleticism, peyton manning is at the top, leaning on his mind, desire for perfection and work ethic. watch and pay close attention. pleasew, for goodness sake, don’t overlook how unique and incredible this season has been, just because he’s peyton manning and this is what we’ve come to expect after sixteen seasons. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
BASKETBALL 

nigerian basketball hopes to become a slam dunk 
Associated Press 
lagos, nigeria — abiodun Francis ayetimiyi was meant to follow his father and pursue medicine in nigeria. he found a different path one morning seven years ago when he was playing soccer and came upon another ball, a big orange one. 

The 16-year-old’s natural speed and athleticism now have him pursuing basketball stardom, a dream that is be­coming more achievable in a country that produced one of the nba’s greats but, like most of africa, has had little space for any sport other than soccer. 
about 30 years after hall of Famer hakeem “The dream” olajuwon first emerged from the sprawling city of lagos, ayetimiyi is part of a new drive for basketball here, and a chance for new dreams in nigeria. 

“in my country i’m known here, but i want to be known elsewhere. i want my hard work to be seen by agents, coaches. i’d like to finish high school in the u.s. They don’t need to put much work into me,” the teen­ager said with a grin, leaning forward to make his point. 
picked by the nba as one of seven nigerians to attend the recent talent-scouted basketball without borders camp in south africa, ayetimiyi is among a new gen­eration ready to ride the mo­mentum basketball is gaining in this west african country of nearly 160 million people, albeit decades after olajuwon blazed a trail. 

nigeria’s participation in the 2012 olympics raised the international visibility of the country’s basketball talent, but several nigerians who had already made it to international stardom also make it a priority to actively encourage the sport back home. 
First came olajuwon, the two-time nba champion and 12-time all-star with the houston rockets. more re­cently there has been Toronto 


FOR SALE 

Open House Sun 10/6 2-4 13271 Adams Rd Granger. Historic restored home with barn on 1.5 acres. 3B 2Fbaths. Cressy&Everett Realty Pam DeCola 574-532-0204 
FOR RENT 

USC weekend rental - close to cam­pus. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
raptors general manager masai ujiri, who directs the basketball without borders africa program and runs his own camps in nigeria. and former seattle supersonics and orlando magic center olumide oyedeji. 
on a steaming hot Friday in the yaba neighborhood of lagos, oyedeji coaches at least 250 kids from the age of five and up who practice layups, passes and basic dribbles wear­ing brightly colored T-shirts. 
The 6-foot-10 oyedeji plays with them, towering over the youngsters who line up laugh­ing and clapping for each other around four different baskets. 
with the blow of a whistle, everyone stops and listens, ex­cited to be in his gentle, inspir­ing presence. The subsidized camp gives the underprivileged kids a chance to learn the sport, and be close to a nigerian hero. 
“nigeria is my home. i started this camp so i can share my experiences,” oyedeji said. “i hope we can contribute to their lives and give them hope for the future because that’s what bas­ketball gave me. i had a difficult childhood.” 
kids gather close, hanging on oyedeji’s words. oyedeji will leave soon for Japan, where he now plays. but his impact will remain, for girls as well as boys. 
“even though we (girls) are not recognized very well, we can still play. i want to be the best and play for the wnba,” said 15-year-old ibeh lucy chinelo, who started a pickup game during the camp’s lunch break. 
her friend ayomide olukayode chimed in: “i want to be a professional player and i want to play for the national team.” 
nigeria is offering more lo­cal opportunities: high school teams, university leagues and state franchises like mark mentors, kano pillars, union bank and dodan warriors, who faced off at nigeria’s own Final Four in september. 
dodan warriors forward ifeanyi modo started playing at a local court in ajegunle, a lagos neighborhood known for churning out soccer players, though also known for its slum areas and gangs. 
“basketball gives you an op­portunity to get off the streets, it gives you an opportunity to not join gangs, to go to school and to be a better person,” he said. he said that many nigerians leave to play in other countries “because they need money, they need to support their families.” 
The reality right now is the average salary in the nigerian league is only about $100 a month, said Joe Touomou, the mark mentors head coach and a consultant to the nigerian basketball Federation, the nbbF — “not enough for a kid to live off.” 
Touomou is part of a bigger plan to encourage youngsters to seek careers in basketball. That involves the promised land of playing for college teams in the united states and the chance for two things; bet­ter coaching and a good educa­tion — opportunities olajuwon seized in the early 1980s at the university of houston, and others have also more recently taken. 
yet, not all nigerian kids will make it to an american college so there’s work being done at home, too. 
nigeria’s basketball Federation wants to foster local talents. Touomou, a cameroonian who played for georgetown and turned to coaching after an injury, is also tasked with building coaching expertise in the capital abuja and its surrounding state. 
“every time i came here i was impressed by the poten­tial. The size, the athleticism, the strength of the players,” Touomou said of nigeria. “The one thing i knew was lacking was the skills. a lot of players were not polished yet, a lot of players lacked game experi­ence, a lot of players lacked good coaching.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
The Observer Office Playlist 
WANTED 
Dream On 

Male sophomore student at        Aerosmith Purdue University here in South    Heard ‘em Say Bend looking for mechanical en-        Kanye West ft. Adam Levine gineer tutor in Dynamics and    Hold On, We’re Going Home Electrical Engineering. Please seri-        Drake ous inquires only 574-291-8859    Colors
        Chris Cab Welcome Back!    The Man Who Can’t Be Moved         The Script It’s good to see the NDH    Your Body is a Wonderland Salad guy back in action        John Mayer 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2013 | The observer 

ND VOLLEYBALL | duke 3, noTre dame 1 
notre dame falls to duke in acc home opener 
dominated the opening set, 
By KATIE HEIT 

sports writer starting out ahead and never 
letting duke (12-2, 3-0 acc) 

after getting out to a quick catch up, finishing the first set start and winning the first set, 25-18 on a spike from junior the irish struggled against a outside hitter Toni alugbue. powerhouse duke squad and after the first set, howev­dropped three straight sets to er, the irish momentum fell fall 3-1 to the blue devils. by the wayside. irish coach 
notre dame (6-9, 0-3 acc) debbie brown said she saw 
paid adverTisemenT 

not only a loss of momentum in the final three sets but a struggle with the serving game. 
“in game one, we put tre­mendous pressure on them with our serving,” brown said. “we got very tentative with our serving after that and al­lowed them to move in.” 
in the second set, the irish started to see their momen­tum drop. They got off to a quick 4-1 start and kept a lead of three points or more until 17-15. The blue devils moved closer and closer, finally ty­ing the game at 21. The irish were unable to hold off the duke attack and dropped the set 25-22. 
in the third set, the irish fell behind early and struggled to catch up. They tied the game at 19 to begin a rally they failed to finish. with the game at 24-23, the irish missed game point on a serving error and the blue devils capitalized on the opportunity, coming back to win the game 26-24. 
“we didn’t capitalize on our opportunities,” brown said. “we had game point on game three. when you go up 2-1, in­stead of down 1-2, it’s a differ­ent game. we never got it back after game one, and that was pretty disappointing.” 
The irish never came back from close loss in the third game. in their final game of the match, they fell behind early and were unable to keep up with the blue devil offense. 


brown said she saw a big problem with the irish defense. 
“we got out-dug,” brown said. “we had a lot of balls we could have dug or should have dug. some balls where it was just sticking an arm out. 
[defense] keeps rallies going and keeps strings of points going.” 
The irish will look to break their five-game losing streak when they take on wake Forest on Friday at 7 p.m. in purcell pavilion. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles to compete at Pre-Nationals 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports writer 
saturday, saint mary’s will head to hanover, ind. for the division iii pre-nationals. Following last weekend’s fourth place finish at the miaa Jamboree, the belles will aim to improve even more, belles coach Jacqueline bauters said. 
“we did well,” said bauters, “we were looking at securing a fourth place finish and got it, just barely. definitely have things to work on.” 
in saturday’s 6-kilometer race, saint mary’s enjoyed their best conference finish in three years. senior cap­tain Jessica biek headed the effort, finishing 12th with a time of 23:45. Just 16 sec­onds later, freshman brittany beeler continued her stellar first year with an 18th place finish. 
Freshman kathryn marshall, also stood out in her second race of the sea­son. bauters said she was es­pecially proud of marshall’s progress. 
“she is doing great,” bauters said. “i was hoping to see the jump this weekend and she delivered. she continues to look stronger and stronger at practice which is hopefully helping her confidence.” 
coming off an injury last year, marshall paced herself with sophomore allie danhof and junior samee chittenden, eventually coming in 30th. The group finished 12 sec­onds apart as they came in 28th, 29th and 30th. 
The tight no. 3 to no. 5 gap has been a specific focus for the team this year, and an area that they’ve continually improved in. 
“we really need to close up our overall one through five spread in general to im­prove in the conference,” said bauters, “i think we can do it.” 
saint mary’s will race in hanover, ind. at the division iii pre-nationals on saturday. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC SOCCER | belles 2, adrian 0 
‘Best game of the year’ earns Belles victory 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
after going 0-2-3 in its first five conference games, saint mary’s won its second con­secutive miaa tilt wednesday with a 2-0 shutout victory over adrian. 
“Today we played the best game of the year,” belles coach mike Joyce said. “it was the game we’ve been looking for where everything clicks, you finish your chances and man­age the game.” 
after a scoreless first half in which the belles (4-4-3, 2-2-3 miaa) outshot the bulldogs (7­4-0, 5-3-0 miaa) 7-1 but were unable to score, saint mary’s came out pushing the tempo in the second half. after getting off the first three shots of the half, the belles broke through when freshman forward rosie biehl fired a shot from just inside the 18-yard box that ricocheted off adrian sophomore goalkeeper lexi lewandowski’s hands into the goal for a 1-0 belles lead. The goal was biehl’s team-lead­ing fourth of the year. 
after a relatively quiet next 20 minutes, junior midfielder erin mishu won possession of a long free kick in the 85th minute, beating her defender, leaving a one-on-one opportunity be­tween her and lewandowski. mishu didn’t let the opportu­nity pass, rocketing a shot from just inside the 18-yard box into the back of the net for her first goal of the season and a 2-0 belles lead, which held until the final whistle. 
belles junior goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum had a rel­atively quiet game, saving all three shots on goal she faced for her third shutout of the season. 
Joyce was extremely pleased with the entire team effort wednesday, pointing to the belles’ depth and improved team chemistry keys to their recent improved play. 
“i would normally point out some particularly good perfor­mances, but every last player was great today,” Joyce said. “we played 18 players and ev­ery last one of them played well, knew their job and we didn’t skip a beat when we made substitutions.” 
The belles’ held a 16-5 shot advantage over the bulldogs, who came into the game tied for first in the miaa, marked the fourth straight game the belles have outshot their opponents. 
“we’ve played well before but had yet to win in a tight game against one of the top teams in the conference,” Joyce said. “That all shifted today and i think we’ll gain a lot of momen­tum from the game.” 
looking forward to the belles next matchup sunday at Trine, Joyce said the belles will have to be ready for a similar team in the Thunder (2-7-0, 1-6-0). 
“Trine is just like us, spec­tacular at home, so it will be a tough game when we go there,” Joyce said. “They play smart and game plan well, so we’ll have to be sharp.” 
The Thunder, currently sit­ting in eighth place in the miaa, are coming off a 1-0 loss to alma wednesday. The belles, despite the win, still sit in sev­enth place. 
“we’re still behind in the con­ference from where we need to be or think we can get,” Joyce said. “so we’ve still got work to do.” 
The belles and Thunder take the field sunday at 4 p.m. at Trine. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 


SMC GOLF | 2nd place aT miaa Jamboree 
SMC second at jamboree 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
behind a strong performance from junior Janice heffernan, the belles finished second at the third miaa jamboree at Thornapple pointe golf club in grand rapids, mich. a score of 340, kept saint mary’s in second place in the conference head­ing into the season’s final tour­nament this weekend at Zolner golf course in angola, in. 
“I think we have to eliminate some [high scores]. Every round, we all have a bad hole here or there. I think if we eliminate those, we’ll be right there.” 
Kim Moore 
Belles coach 
heffernan tied for fourth place with a score of 80, which tied her season-best mark set last week­end at milham park. she trailed the leaders by one stroke, as three golfers tied for the individ­ual lead with 79. 
belles’ coach kim moore said she was impressed with heffernan. 
“i think [heffernan] is having better consistency with her ball striking. it’s been pretty good lately,” moore said. “she’s had a few bad shots here and there, but she’s been able to get up and down [the course] a lot more fre­quently as well, which should re­ally help her scores.” 
heffernan’s season-best day was boosted by a score of 38 on the back nine holes, but even her late push was not enough to al­low the belles to keep up with olivet. The comets won their third straight jamboree with a score of 324. sophomore brook kastamo and senior Theresa damico paced olivet by each shooting a 79, and were two of the three golfers who tied for the individual lead. Trine soph­omore amy worthington was the third co-leader. The belles score of 340 was second best on the day, just ahead of Trine and the event’s hosts, calvin, who scored 347 and 348, respectively. moore says in order to close the gap on olivet in the final miaa jamboree, her team will have to cut down on their bad holes. 
“i think we have to eliminate some [high scores],” moore said. “every round, we all have a bad hole here or there. i think if we eliminate those, we’ll be right there.” 
while heffernan has stepped up the past few rounds, the rest of the belles’ lineup has been in­consistent. senior paige pollak came into the third miaa jam­boree with an average score of 80.5, but shot an 85, her worst score of the season. it still tied her for eighth place, two spots behind sophomore sammy averill, who managed an 84 on the day. 
a pair of freshman, ali mahoney and courtney carlson, rounded out the belles’ lineup. mahoney shot a 91 and finished in 23rd place, while carlson fell to 31st with a 94. both golf­ers markedly improved on the back nine by shooting a 43, with moore saying she was impressed with their resilience. 
“both of them played a little better, but it’s that same issue of a few bad balls here or there,” moore said. “They had a bad nine, but they rebounded and came back on the other nine.” 
The belles face another fast turnaround for their final miaa jamboree this weekend, with only two days off. moore, how­ever, is confident her team will be prepared. 
“Friday we’ll leave for [Zolner] and play some holes in the after­noon, which i think will help.” moore said. “it will really help get us get familiar with the golf course.” 
The belles will play their fi­nal miaa regular season round saturday at Zolner golf course. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2013 | The observer 

W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
her will be the toughest chal­lenge for the irish, waldrum said. 
“[bledsoe] is very athletic, she’s a really good shot-stop­per … she’s the real package,” waldrum said. “everything starts with her, [and] defen­sively they’re a well organized team, really well coached in the back.” 
bledsoe will be facing an irish offense that has ex­ploded recently, scoring three goals against pittsburgh and five against syracuse. essential to the breakthrough was the play of sophomore forward cari rocarro, who notched her first career hat trick against pittsburgh (4­7-1, 0-6-0), and added an­other goal and two assists against the orange (4-7-1, 0-5-1). previous to those two games, roccarro, the big east Freshman of the year and third-team nscaa all­american, had yet to tally a single point all season. her move to forward from midfielder has revitalized the irish’s offense, coach waldrum said. 
“[roccaro’s] been great making that move, getting her up front… has brought some more intensity to the front line,” waldrum said. “it’s something we kind of needed because we had got­ten a little bit stagnant.” 

supporting roccaro are notre dame’s leading scor­ers junior forward lauren bohaboy and sophomore forward crystal Thomas. bohaboy has six goals to pace the irish attack, while Thomas has a team-best seven assists. if the demon deacons focus on roccaro on defense, waldrum said he has enough weapons to make them pay. 
“we were able to [move roccoro] because we’ve got a few players like [sophomore midfielder] glory williams, [freshman midfielder] cindy pineda, and [freshman mid­fielder] rilka noel who are playing really well, ” waldrum said. “i think teams are going to key on [roccaro], as they should. i think the nice thing is we have some other players who can cause some prob­lems for them if they do.” 
The matchup between the irish and demon deacons will kick off Thursday night at 7 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


Theismann 
conTinued From page 16 
parseghian of top-10 finishes that included a national cham­pionship in 1966. 
“i think back now and re­flect on the time i spent with him and appreciate the lessons more,” Theismann said. “when you’re going through some­thing, sometimes, you can’t see the forest for the trees. all of a sudden, when it’s over and you reflect back and go ‘wow, i learned a lot during that period of time.’ and i did for ara.” 
parseghian was just one of the great coaches the former irish quarterback played under during his career. Theismann also played for hall-of-Famers george allen and Joe gibbs as a member of the washington redskins. 
“i consider myself a very lucky man to have had a chance to be around them,” Theismann said. “i’ve appreciated all of the lessons about being around greatness.” 
Theismann said he also played for hall-of-Famers Tom landry and bill walsh in pro bowls. he said all the great coaches had a common theme. 
“The one thing that is a com­mon thread is that it was all about details,” he said. “They were extremely detail-oriented. They were extremely focused. and they didn’t waste a lot of rhetoric or try to give fancy speeches. They were all no-non­sense men. This is what we’re going to do, this is how we’re going to do it and this is the way it’s going to get done. period. if you didn’t understand that, you didn’t deserve to be on any of those football teams.” 
Theismann almost added another coach to his personal mount rushmore of coaching 
— don shula. 
coming out of notre dame, Theismann was drafted in the fourth round by the miami dolphins, but never played a down for the dolphins. 
“That didn’t really pan out very well,” he said. “i basi­cally said i would be a miami dolphin. i didn’t like some of the language in the contract be­cause i did not have an agent. so i would up signing with the Toronto argonauts of the canadian Football league.” 
Theismann played three sea­sons in the cFl before return­ing to the nFl as a member of the redskins. during his time in canada, the dolphins went undefeated in 1972 and added another title in 1973. 
in 1972, dolphins starting quarterback bob griese broke his ankle early in the season, which could have opened the door for Theismann to lead an undefeated team if he was a dolphin. 
“in you really want to fanta­size, that could have been me,” he said. “but then again, i could have been [6-foot-5] and play­ing power forward in the nba but i’m not that either.” 
Theismann exacted his re­venge against miami in 1982, when his redskins beat the dolphins 27-17 in super bowl Xvii. Theismann threw two touchdown passes in the win a decade after he spurned the dolphins for the cFl. 
“it was somewhat reward­ing. coach shula was really up­set with me,” Theismann said. “Fast-forward 11 years to 1982, i’m quarterbacking a team that beats him in the super bowl. if he was really mad at me for those 10 or 11 years, you could imagine how mad he was at me after that. i’d say shula hated me for a good 20 years.” 
Theismann said he does not have many regrets about his playing career but one was that he never played for shula. 
“don shula was, to me, the professional answer to what ara parseghian was — tough, will­ful men,” he said. “and obvi­ously, coach shula was the most winningest coach in the history of professional football, that just tells you what it’s like.” 
now, Theismann does moti­vational speeches for everything from charities, corporations and universities to civil groups, chambers of commerce and as­sociation meetings. 
“i love sharing my experiences with other people,” he said. “i’ve been blessed to be around some incredible people both in the world of athletics and not in the world of athletics. how many people have personal trainers to help them physically? millions. what i try and do is to help them mentally. so i guess i’m a men­tal personal trainer.” 
Theismann said he speaks about the relationship the world of sports, the world of business and personal lives. 
“i talk about goals, attitudes, relationships, teamwork, mo­tivation, competitive edge,” he said. “i ask people to look at their life, i never want to tell anybody to do anything. but i basically share the experiences of my life so that they have something to measure it against, both good and bad.” 
Theismann, 64, is married to his wife robin. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
Zuba 
conTinued From page 16 
The irish have allowed just four goals this season. That’s four goals in seven games, several of which were against formidable ranked teams in­cluding ucla and then-no. 1 north carolina. notre dame has played a tough schedule, but it has yet to lose a game because it has kept talented opponents from scoring — or even trying to score. opponents have attempted 66 shots this season, less than half of the total 146 shots for the irish. 
shutting down talented teams requires discipline on defense, and that focus has come through experience and good communication for notre dame. 
Junior defender max lachowecki, senior defender grant van de casteele and senior defender andrew o’malley give the irish an up­perclassmen edge on defense. lachowecki and van de casteele have started every game and played all 780 min­utes for notre dame this sea­son. o’malley has also started every game and played 735 minutes, and senior defender luke mishu has turned in significant time on defense in six games. 
an established defensive core means the irish know how to communicate, which is key against the sharp, quick offenses that their opponents field. when snap decisions need to be made, notre dame has proven it can make them and keep opponents away from the net. 
of course, if opponents happen to make it to the box, senior goalkeeper patrick wall is there to stop them. wall has allowed just four goals in 780 minutes, which works out to 0.50 goals per game. wall has 27 saves on the season and a .871 save percentage. 
wall is even better this sea­son than he was as a junior in 2012. wall started 10 matches in his first season as a starter and allowed 0.98 goals per game with a .762 save per­centage. wall notched 32 saves last year and is on pace to surpass that mark. 
but wall and the irish de­fenders aren’t the only ones getting in on the defensive action. 
notre dame has dominated time of possession in most of its games, so both the of­fense and defense have played defensive roles and kept the ball away from opponents. as soon as the shots start finding the net, the irish will become even more formidable. 
notre dame has showcased its scoring abilities recently. The irish scored three goals each against syracuse, michigan and duke. all three of the goals against the blue devils came in the second period and doubled notre dame’s scoring total in sec­ond periods this season. The arrow is pointing up for an irish offense that is starting to score more often and late in games. The offense should keep creating chances, and the defense isn’t going any­where, so notre dame has a chance to dominate games. 
The field seems to be open­ing up for the irish, and they will be more dangerous than ever now that a potent of­fense is catching up to a solid defense. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
2-0-2 acc) out of the tourna­ment on the way to their eighth championship. 
“not at all, and we talked about that. we talked about focus and playing our own game,” clark said when asked if his team felt they had “got­ten back” at the hoosiers. “indiana’s a class act in every way. They’re well coached, they’ve got some very good players, and any time notre dame plays indiana, it’s just a great game.” 
although indiana gave the irish a few early scares, cicciarelli received a play-in from senior forward harrison shipp, then single-handedly broke through two defend­ers and indiana’s sophomore goalkeeper michael soderlund to force the ball into the goal and put the irish up, 1-0, in the 21st minute. 
“That’s maybe the monkey off his back a little bit,” clark said. “he was terrific the whole game, and getting the goal was obviously the icing on the cake for him, but i think that will be the first of many.” 
The goal was the first of cicciarelli’s college career. 
“it was awesome. my parents and my grandma were here, so that was sweet,” cicciarelli said. “it’s the longest drought i’ve ever had without scoring a goal, but obviously we’ve been winning so i don’t really care if i score or not, just as long as we get the job done.” 
cicciarelli’s goal opened the floodgates for the irish, who finished the first half with nine shots. it was sophomore midfielder patrick hodan who stretched the lead to two with 10 minutes remain­ing in the first half. hodan, who entered the game dur­ing the time-stoppage follow­ing cicciarelli’s goal, dribbled around a hoosier defender and threaded a left-footed touch into the lower-left corner of the net for his third goal of the season. 
“he always was a natural goal-scorer. he’s a preda­tor,” clark said of hodan. “he scores goals. he’s got a cool head around the box, and he’s got a very accurate shot.” 
although indiana finished the match trailing notre dame 17-8 in the shot count, senior goalkeeper patrick wall bore part of the responsibility for the shutout, his fourth of the season. wall, who has played every minute of the regular season so far and allowed just four goals, had three saves against indiana. 
“he didn’t have a lot to do, but the save he had in the first couple of minutes was fan­tastic, down to his left hand,” clark said. “he did the same last week against michigan. he’s so focused; if that shot goes in, the whole game changes.” 
despite taking a two-goal lead into the second half, clark said he could feel the tension at practice. you’ve got to work through the rest of the game. your feet, you’ve got to be very 
“it would’ve been nicer if it alert. [senior defenders] grant had been four goals,” clark van de casteele and andrew said. “Two-nothing, they al-o’malley did a very good job.” ways says that’s the most dan-although the scoring ended gerous lead; you think you’re in the first half, the physi­comfortable, but if they score cal play did not. although a goal you’re in trouble. we cicciarelli was shown a yel­realized the game wasn’t go-low card in the 55th minute for ing to be over, but i thought we a thrown elbow, the referee, handled the game well in the chico grajeda, rarely stopped second half; there was always play despite several hard chal­a little bit of tension, because lenges. clark did not take is­indiana is a very good team.” sue with the “let them play” 
The irish successfully pre-approach. vented indiana freshman for-“chico’s one of the best refer-ward Tommy Thompson from ees in the country,” clark said. doing any lasting damage on “he’s an mls referee, he did the score sheet, although he the college cup final. i would did have two shots and several take chico every single game.” scoring opportunities. The irish have little down­
“we just had to stay on our time, as they travel to south feet; he’s a very lively player,” carolina to face clemson on clark said. “he’s kind of their saturday. The game kicks off at harry shipp, almost. he does a riggs Field at 7 p.m. lot of the same stuff that harry does for us, and our players Contact Vicky Jacobsen at are used to defending harry vjacobse@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2013 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: kelly ripa, 43; lorraine bracco, 59; sting, 62; donna karan, 65. 
Happy Birthday: You will have to change the way you handle others. expect to encounter a shift within important relationships that will set the stage for what’s to come. refuse to be mesmerized by someone offering the impossible or making an unlikely promise. put more effort into your home and the environment you live in as well as your emotional and financial future. your numbers are 3, 8, 18, 24, 28, 35, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): collaborate with people who work in a similar industry or share your goals. Favorable changes will result and you will find good partners for future projects. make home improvements, but don’t go over budget. physical activity will do you good. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): expand on an idea you have. use all your skills to prove to others that you are capable of living up to any promises. relationships will improve, but you must be willing to compromise. romance is in the stars. 



GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t let criticism get you down. if you feel good about what you are doing, that’s all that matters. do your own thing and avoid emotional encounters that might stifle your progress. Focus on finishing what you start. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): put more into creative endeavors. expand your spiritual awareness and look for enlightenment in whatever you pursue. love and romance are apparent, and nurturing a relationship or looking for love should be your intent. it’s up to you to make things happen. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): look for new ways to offer the services or talents that you specialize in. don’t let personal responsibilities hinder you from branching out in directions that suit your personality and your needs. Focus on change and adventure. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): stay focused on what you have to do. offer incentives and make emotional pleas if it will help you get what you want. The results will be favorable if you are willing to pay the price. romance looks promising. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take charge and make things happen. don’t waffle when it’s vital that you are ready to leap into action. change may not be wel­comed, but it will be inevitable, so do your best to stay prepared and adaptable. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): play, have fun and enjoy finding out about unusual interests, cultures and possibilities. make personal changes to your home and lifestyle and let love and romance lead to new and exciting plans for the future. new beginnings will bring endless variety. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): be leery of anyone using emotional blackmail or being evasive. Take action and protect your assets, possessions and relationships that are important to you. don’t let anyone push change on you, but be willing to make changes that are necessary. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): learn  all you can and establish your position amongst your peers. you have plenty to gain by being a team player and building relationships with those who have something to offer in return. partnerships can be formed. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): misinformation will cause you to miss out on an opportunity. ask questions and get the facts straight to avoid loss or damage to your reputations. gains can be made, but only if you are ready to take action. 



PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): give romance precedence. you can help develop a closer bond with someone special by taking part in something you enjoy doing together. your unique way of doing and seeing things will attract attention. 


Birthday Baby: you are inquisitive and pragmatic. you take pride in being precise. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER | nd 2, indiana 0 
Notre Dame blanks Hoosiers in Indiana rivalry 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
indiana crimson splotched large sections of the stands during an attempted whiteout at alumni stadium wednesday night, but it was the hoosier faithful who went home disap­pointed as the no. 2 irish beat the defending national cham­pions, 2-0. 
“it feels good,” junior for­ward vince cicciarelli said. “it’s iu, they ended our sea­son last year, and it’s a big in-ner-state rivalry, big regional game. we’re just making a statement here that we’re for real this year.” 
irish coach bobby clark said he and the players did not view the win over indiana (4-5-1, 1-0-0 big Ten) as “revenge” for knocking notre dame (5-0-3, 
see m soccer PAGE 14 

Making a statement 

Irish defense continues to dominate 

Samantha Zuba 
sports writer 
it’s all about the defense for the no. 2 irish. 
notre dame (4-0-3, 2-0­2 acc) struggled to score goals early in the season but climbed to no. 2 in the na­tional rankings anyway. how? defense. 
The irish scored only 10 goals in their first six games before they added three last Friday against duke. Ten goals might not seem so bad if notre dame hadn’t taken 112 shots to earn them. 
The irish were creating chances but not scoring goals, and while the offense searched for consistency, the defense kept notre dame competitive in games and high in the standings. 
see Zuba PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

nd looks to defeat demon deacons 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
no. 4 notre dame will finish up its four-game home stand at alumni stadium with a match up against no. 13 wake Forest. 
The irish (9-1-0, 5-0-0 acc) skated through the first three games at home undefeated, and outscored their opponents by a combined score of 9-0. irish coach randy waldrum, however, said the success the irish have enjoyed over this stretch loses its luster if they can’t finish it with a win. 
“outside of ucla early, i think this is the next biggest home game we’ve had, without a doubt,” waldrum said. “in the two big home games we’ve had, i was really pleased with one performance, and not so much with the other one. so hopefully we can repeat what we did against maryland. it’s a huge game.” 
The demon deacons (8-2-1, 3-2-1) will be looking to give the irish their first acc loss when they come into alumni stadium. This will be the fi­nal match of a four game road trip for wake Forest, and a win would salvage a .500 record over that span. 

outside of leading scorers junior midfielder riley ridgik and senior forward katie stengel, who have six goals apiece, the demon deacons’ offense has struggled recent­ly. The demon deacons have scored only eight goals in their six acc games, and have been shutout three times. despite that, waldrum said he still sees them as a threatening attack. 
“everything offensively for them is off of two players, real­ly three,” said waldrum in ref­erence to ridgik, stengel, and senior midfielder ally berry. “[stengel] is every bit as good as any forward in the coun­try. she’s lethal when she gets around the goal.” 
on the other side of the ball for the demon deacons, senior goaltender audrey bledsoe has led a stout defense that has held acc opponents to only three goals. bledsoe, a 2012 nscaa third-team all­american, has five shutouts and 35 saves this season, with only seven goals allowed all season. getting the ball past 
see w soccer PAGE 13 

WAKING THE ECHOES | Joe Theismann 
Theismann continues to motivate after football 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 

it was ara parseghian’s 90th birthday when Joe Theismann realized the proper way to re­spect his former coach. 
parseghian was seated in a chair at the celebration and Theismann knelt down to be next to him when it hit him. 
“i thought ‘This is the way it should be, everyone should bow to ara,’” Theismann said in a phone interview with The observer. “he was the king on the throne to so many of us. The man was phenomenal. ... you couldn’t disappoint ara, you just couldn’t. you couldn’t allow yourself to disappoint someone like him.” 
“To this day, i am still intimi­dated by him because i have such great respect.” 
under parseghian’s tutelage, Theismann finished his irish career with 4,411 yards passing and 1,021 yards on the ground. he finished second in voting for the heisman Trophy in 1970 to stanford’s Jim plunkett despite throwing just 16 touchdowns and 14 interceptions. 
Theismann said he was un­dersized for the quarterback position, especially when he first enrolled at notre dame. 
“in college, you really don’t know anything,” he said. “in college football, it’s like, you’re just delighted to be here. [i was] 155 pounds. when i started as a sophomore, i was 162 pounds. when you’re 5-feet-10 and 162 pounds, you’re just happy to be alive much less the starting quarterback at the university of notre dame.” 


after starter Terry hanratty went down with an injury, Theismann took his spot in the lineup in 1968. The next two years, however, Theismann was the man under center as the irish finished in the top 10 both seasons. 
Theismann’s four years on campus marked the end of a seven-year streak for 
see Theismann PAGE 13 






