The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 44 | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND senior travels to Vatican, meets Pope Francis 
Juan Manuel Segura and family bring “The Chapels of Notre Dame” as gift for pontiff 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
The head of the roman catholic church now owns a copy of the book “The chapels of notre dame,” thanks to senior Juan manuel segura, who traveled to rome with his family in october to briefly meet pope francis. 
segura and his family have been good friends with argentine cardinal Jorge mejia for the past 20 years, and he said the cardinal’s acquaintance with pope francis made the meeting possible. 
“[cardinal mejia] has visit­ed our house in washington, d. c., and he has confirmed and baptized a lot of mem­bers in our family,” segura said. “it’s through him that my family and i were able to get the opportunity to go to rome and be a part of the papal audience, especially to meet [pope francis] and ac­tually shake hands with him and say a couple words.” 
segura said he, his parents and two of his five siblings made the whirlwind trip to the vatican and back, arriv­ing in italy on Tuesday, oct. 1, and flying back to the united states on Thursday, oct. 3. They met francis following 
see pope PAGE 5 




‘movember’ promotes men’s health with facial hair 
By TORI ROECK 
associate news editor 
student body president alex coccia may have the most iconic facial hair on campus, but he will blend in more this month as students participating in movember don moustaches and beards to raise awareness of men’s health issues. 
senior steve fox said 
see movember PAGE 4 



holy cross harvest collects donations for food bank 
By SAMANTHA CASTANEDA 
news writer 
The saint mary ’s office for social and civic engagement (osce) has 
joi ne d w it h  hol y  c r o s s  
c ol le ge a nd  not re  da me  
t o ho s t t he  hol y  c r o s s  
h a r v e st t h i s we e k .  

This is the third year the institutions have hosted the festival, Jessica bulosan, assistant director of osce, said. 

The festival aims to help people in the south bend community who lack basic resources, bulosan said. osce will host discussions, place food barrels around the college and encourage students to donate a meal swipe in solidarity with the hungry. 
“The food drive is the main event in the holy cross harvest,” bulosan said. “we at saint mary ’s 
a r e  don a t i ng  a l l  of  t he  
fo od a nd monet a r y  do - 
n at ion s  w e  get  to  t he  

food bank [of] northern 
see harvesT PAGE 5 



Professor and team earn grant to analyze democracy 
By HENRY GENS 
news writer 
The rapidly-shifting nature of today’s political landscapes and conflicts calls for thorough understanding of democracy.   
This is exactly what politi­cal science professor michael coppedge and his collabo­rators are attempting to ac­complish with the varieties of democracy project. 
The team, which has more than 2,000 contributing mem­bers around the world, recently received a $5.8 million grant awarded over six years to ana­lyze an unprecedented amount of data related to democracies, coppedge said. he is one of four principal investigators in charge of steering the large-scale study and covering data from all countries and colonies in the world from the year 2000. 
although previous research in the field revealed reliable general indicators of certain types of democratic systems, coppedge said these were less useful for answering the more sophisticated questions that needed to be asked. 
“researchers need these in­dicators because they’re in­terested in questions about the nature, causes and con­sequences of democracy,” coppedge said. “The indicators that we had already really were not up to the task of measur­ing things in a precise enough, fine-grained enough way to be able to test the ideas that we have. They were just lying far behind the kinds of theories and models that we wanted to test.” 
in refining the new indica­tors, coppedge said his team moved beyond the traditional american political science view of democracy in the field, which tended to focus on only the basic requirements for such government and left out rich aspects of democracy. instead, the collaboration is examining indicators across seven broad classes of democracy, ranging from electoral to egalitarian. 
“we don’t endorse all of these views, but these are the views 
see democracy PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 fooTball PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew defranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What is your favorite monument on campus? Katie Nunn Kate Bowie 

senior 

senior welsh family hall off campus 
“rotating rock in como.” 

“The globe in hurley.” 

Katie Silikowski 
senior pasquerilla west hall 
“stonehenge.” 

Laura Stangler 
senior walsh hall 
“Jordan hall sun dial.” 


Sarah Dale 
senior 
off campus 
“The grotto.” 


Sarah Cressman 
senior 
off campus 
“stonehenge.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
ann marie Jakubowski aaron saint-miller Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Katie mccarty Katie heit haleigh ehmsen isaac lorton 

Graphics Scene 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Four:7 Catholic Orlando Menes Radium Girls Eid Festival The Pirogue 

grant Tobin austin Taliaferro 
Fellowship Reading Moreau- Little Theatre Coleman-Morse DeBartolo Performing Cavanaugh Hall Hammes Bookstore 7:30 p.m.- 9:30 p.m. Center Arts Center 
8:15p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Saint Mary’s fall 6 p.m.- 9 p.m. 6:30 p.m. 
Corrections 
Student-led worship. Poetry reading. production. Celebrating Ramadan. 2012 French film. 

in the nov. 1 issue of The observer, the article “ceo of nonprofit wins award 
Wall St. Journal Theology on Fire Estonian National Opening the Door to Men’s Hockey 

for advocacy” misspelled the name of 
Columnists Student Center Symphony Orchestra Justice Compton Family Ice 

acumen beneficiary Jawad aslam. The 
McNeill Room Lounge DeBartolo Performing Haggar Parlor Arena 
observer regrets this error. 
12:30p.m. 8 p.m.- 9 p.m. Arts Center 1 p.m.- 2:30 p.m. 7:05 p.m.- 9:05 p.m. Micheal Auslin and Science and wisdom 7 p.m.- 8:30 p.m. Panel discussion on The  Fighting Irish Sadanand Dhume will in a time of climate Featuring Estonian-the Radium Girls and take on the Minnesota speak. change. born Silver Ainomäe. their milestone case. Gophers. 



smc alumna discusses fashion boutique launch 
By ANGELA BUKUR 
news writer 
saint mary’s alumna vanessa cooreman smith combined her love of fashion with her drive to succeed when she launched flourish boutique in granger in 2008, and she returned to the college on monday to share the story of her business. 
The lecture was co-spon­sored by saint mary’s business and economics department and the cross currents program’s collegiate speaker series. smith, who graduated in 2004, said the boutique was a dream of hers that began dur­ing her undergraduate years. 
“when at saint mary’s, i found myself trying to fit my passions and creative talents into other avenues that were more practical for living in the midwest,” smith said. 
during her junior year at saint mary’s, smith said she discovered her passion to start her own business, and after college began to take classes in business and fashion through the art institute online.
 “all the time i was doing that, i was planning, saving and re­searching,” she said. “despite my fear of failure, i knew it was my calling in life was to start my own business. 
smith combined a small business loan and her savings to open florish boutique in 2008 as a women’s clothing and accessories store, smith said. 

The business’s mission is to help women “flourish” both in fashion and in life. 
“The definition of the flour­ish has two meanings: first, as an embellishment or flair on clothing with that as a testa­ment to the clothes we have, and second, is to thrive or pros­per,” smith said. 
smith said her goal is to help women find unique and special clothing, but also to make them feel confident and great about themselves. 
“only two months after flourish opened, the stock market crashed,” smith said. “i knew it was too late to turn back. 
“looking back, when faced with the recession at that time, i felt like all my life’s mentors were preparing me for some­thing difficult. The personal stress and toll was insane, we sold our house and our cars be­cause we were so determined to make it work.“ 
we had to come up with many creative marketing strat­egies like fashion shows, trunk shows, giveaways, etc. to help us during this time.” 
smith said the adversity in the beginning served as 
paid adverTisemenT 
motivation for her future success. 
“despite everyone’s advice to close, it was like whenever someone told me to close, i be­came even more determined” smith said. 
Two turning points of the business was her “giving phi­losophy” to gain fans and the use of social media, smith said. 
“The turning point felt like a huge shift in momentum, but it didn’t mean overnight or lack of stress,” smith said. 
Today, despite the recession, flourish have experienced year after year growth,,“ smith said. 
“we launched our e-com­merce store in 2011, [were] fea­tured on cnn and have gained a big fan following through facebook and blog posts,” smith said. “we also now have specialized staff, internship position, and are outgrowing our current space.” 
smith said in the future, she would like her business to be­come a major player in the on-line world of boutiques. 
“if you start a business it will be challenging, but on the other side you can live your dream,” smith said. “life can throw things at you, but you must pursue a job you love to do.” 
Contact Angela Bukur at     abukur01@saintmarys.edu 
College to debut Steinway grand piano at concert 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
saint mary’s college will introduce a new steinway & sons model d concert 
“Our students will benefit from the Joshis’ generosity for years to come. Georgina was a superb singer, and now our singers have an excellent instrument bearing her name to accompany them in rehearsal and performance.” 
Nancy Menk 
chair of department of music 
grand piano to the college’s department of music in its de­but performance at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday, nov. 14 in little Theatre of moreau center for the arts, the college stated in a press release on oct. 25. 
nancy menk, chair of the department of music, said the piano is a gift from louise addicott and yatish Joshi in honor of their daughter, georgina. The piano was christened “georgina” on be­half of Joshi’s daughter and her appreciation for all medi­ums of music — on and off the stage, gwen o’brien, director of media relations, said. 
Joshi paired the gift with a letter to the college that stated his desire to inspire “students to greater heights in their mu­sic education and musical careers.” The letter also ex­pressed the couple’s single vi­sion in which young musicians experience various education­al, career development and performance opportunities. 
“we are thrilled with the donation of this wonderful in­strument to our department of music,” menk said. “our students will benefit from the Joshis’ generosity for years to come. georgina was a superb singer, and now our singers have an excellent instrument bearing her name to accom­pany them in rehearsal and performance.” 
georgina attended John adams high school and the royal college of music in london, and then indiana university (iu) bloomington’s Jacobs school of music, menk said. Joshi’s letter also men­tioned how georgina had per­formed at saint mary’s after graduating from royal college of music and with the south bend chamber singers for a number of years, the release stated. menk said she knew georgina well because of her participation in the local mu­sic community. 
“she sang with the south bend chamber singers under my direction when she was in high school and returned from iu to sing bach’s b minor mass with us as well,” menk said. “she gave a recital at saint mary’s at one time.” 
addicott and Joshi also of­fered to rebuild college’s ex­isting steinway piano. 
“our current pianos sus­tained damage while they were on the o’laughlin stage when last year’s fire there oc­curred, so this donation is especially timely as we need to have quality pianos for our students and faculty,” menk said. 
The dedicatory recital per­formance features Jeffrey Jacob, professor of musiceand concert pianist. o’brien said Jacob received his master’s degree at Juilliard and his doctorate from the peabody conservatory at Johns hopkins university. Jacob’s history of audiences — who range from hong Kong to dublin and all over the u.s. 
— make him the perfect musi­cian to consecrate the piano’s place in moreau. 
“Jeffrey Jacob is a college faculty pianist, so it is only natural that he would give the dedicatory recital,” menk said.  he will be retiring at the end of this academic year, so this is a very special recital for him and for our campus.” 
“This new piano, as well as our current steinway d, which is in the process of being re­built, thanks to a gift from the georgina Joshi foundation, will be kept locked when not in use in a new piano ‘garage’ that is being constructed on the o’laughlin stage,” menk said. 
This is not the first time a piano has been donated to the music department, menk said. 
“several years ago an alum­na donated a baby grand piano for use in stapleton lounge, but we have never received a donation of a concert grand pi­ano, to my knowledge,” menk said. “The pianos may be used by anyone, but with the per­mission of the department of music or the office of special events.” 
The event is open to the pub­lic and free of charge. a recep­tion will follow the event. 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Democracy 
conTinued from page 1 
that have some currency out there in the world and so we felt that really legitimate indicators of democracy should enable people to measure whatever version of democracy they find meaningful, to give people that ability,” coppedge said. 
This, however, is not the only aspect of the study that is de­parts from the norm. coppedge said the level of detail achieved in the surveys amounts to one of the most comprehensive studies undertaken in the field. 
“we have a kind of decision tree that starts with more gen­eral things in each of these seven different properties of de­mocracy that are broken down into components, and then the components are broken down into sub-components and so on until we get to the point where we have 329 much more spe­cific indicators of democracy,” coppedge said. 
coppedge said the collabo­ration’s analysis of this data will take place through three projects: finding coherent ag­gregations of the data to pro­duce higher-level indicators, examining the causal relation­ships among different pieces of democracy (“endogenous democratization”) and look­ing at how factors outside of a democracy influence it (“exog­enous democratization”). 
“instead of having one snap­shot of a simple aspect of de­mocracy, kind of a grainy snapshot, we’re trying to move to something like a high-def­inition movie of democracy that’s really comprehensive, and it shows you everything you’d ever want to know about how democratic a country is, in multiple ways, over a long pe­riod of time,” coppedge said. 
The collaboration will make the data available to the pub­lic as it is processed through its highly-interactive website, v-dem.net with a significant portion to be added by march of next year. coppedge said he believes that not only scholars, but governments, non-govern­mental organizations and stu­dents will find the site to be a powerfully informative source of knowledge due to the high quality of the survey data com­ing from native experts in their own countries. 
“our project has this motto, ‘global standards, local knowl­edge.’ That’s what we’re about,” coppedge said. 
Contact Henry Gens at hgens@nd.edu 

u.s. senate passes gay rights bill 
Associated Press 
The senate pushed a major an-ti-bias gay rights bill past a first, big hurdle monday, a clear sign of americans’ greater acceptance of homosexuality nearly two de­cades after the law prohibiting federal recognition of same-sex marriage. 
The vote of 61-30 essentially ensured that the senate has the votes to pass the employment non-discrimination act that would prohibit workplace dis­crimination against gay, bisexual and transgender americans. 
final passage, possibly by weeks end, would cap a 17-year quest to secure senate support for a similar discrimination measure that failed by one vote in 1996, the same year congress passed and president bill clinton signed the defense of marriage act. 
reflecting the nation’s shifting views toward gay rights and the fast-changing political dynamic, seven senate republicans joined with 54 democrats to vote to move ahead on the legislation. 
“rights are sometimes intan­gible but, boy if you’ve ever been discriminated against, seek­ing employment or seeking an advancement, it’s bitter,” sen. Tammy baldwin, d-wis., the only openly gay member of the senate, said after the vote. “and it’s been a long, long fight, but i think its day has come. and that’s just very ex­citing to witness." 
The legislation would be the first significant gay rights legis­lation since congress ended the ban on gays serving openly in the military in december 2010. The supreme court in June affirmed gay marriage and granted federal benefits to legally married same-sex couples while same-sex mar­riage is legal in 14 states and the district of columbia. 
about a half hour after the senate acted, president barack obama cited the vote as an ex­ample of “common sense starting to prevail” in a congress that has opposed much of his agenda. 
“inexorably, the idea of a more tolerant, more prosperous coun­try that offers more opportunity to more people, that’s an idea that the vast majority of americans believe in,” the president told a group of supporters gathered for a summit in washington monday night. 
prospects are dimmer in the republican-led house where speaker John boehner, r-ohio, remains opposed. 
sen. susan collins, r-maine, a chief sponsor of the legislation, said the 60-plus bipartisan vote should force the house to vote on the legislation. 
“it was republican votes that made the difference to­night and that that is a strong signal,"”collins aid. “i also think that attitudes are changing very rapidly on gay rights issues and we’re seeing that with each pass­ing day. more and more people have embraced equality.” 
Movember 
conTinued from page 1 
the movember campaign charges men to not shave for the month of november to encourage conversation about men’s health issues such as prostate and tes­ticular cancer and depres­sion to de-stigmatize these diseases. 
“why do you grow mous­taches to tell people that being depressed is ok? because it’s funny and it’s awesome and it turns the idea on its head,” fox said. “There isn’t a stigma about mental health unless we give it a stigma, and the only way you change that is to be willing to talk about that. 
“so why don’t you wear on your face for one month out of the year [a sign] that [you] stand in solidar­ity with people who suffer from these issues?” 
fox said the movember campaign began in 2003 when a group of friends in australia challenged each other to a facial hair com­petition then decided to give it a message. The cause has since spread worldwide and is especially prevalent on u.s. college campuses because younger men are more likely to struggle with diseases like testicular can­cer, he said. 
“something that we’ve definitely been recogniz­ing and we think why [the movember campaign] wanted to move on and ex­pand to talking about more holistic men’s health is that there are a lot of things that guys don’t like talking about because we just tie it up to being macho,” he said. “one of the biggest things that guys or gals don’t like talking about is mental health.” 
coccia said student gov­ernment wanted to support bringing the movember campaign to notre dame because of its important message. 
“personally i was very excited because facial hair in general is something that’s important to me, and i think it should be very well-respected on campus,” he said. “but i had known about competitions like this that had been done on a much smaller scale, and i think that steve and dom [romeo] had brought a lot of passion to it to show that this could be something that the whole campus was involved with.” 
men against violence, notre dame’s chapter of the national alliance on mental illness and circle K are also sponsoring movember, and fox said he is open to other organizations joining the cause as well. 
senior dominic romeo said he encourages indi­viduals to get involved, as some of his friends already have. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“one of the things that my roommate came up with is on halloween night, he dressed up as a mouse and another one of our friends dressed up as a stash (he dressed up like mario and had a big bucket on his stomach with a big stash of monopoly money in the middle of it), and they went around the dorms and asked for donations or they also had a sign-up sheet where people committed,” he said. 
girls can also support the cause by donating to their friends’ teams or or­ganizing their own fun­draiser, fox said. of the money raised through the movember campaign, 85 percent goes right to the cause, and 40 percent of that money goes to the livestrong foundation while the rest goes to the movember foundation. 
fox said students can start their own teams by go­ing to www.us.movember. com, registering their team and joining the notre dame network titled “notre dame movember.” 
coccia said the teams that raise the most money will win special prizes, and the grand prize is dinner served by fox, romeo and coccia. 
“it would be a very classy affair for the winning team,” coccia said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 




segura said francis 
Pope 

didn’t say anything spe­
conTinued from page 1 

cifically about the gift be-a public papal audience in cause nearly everyone had saint peter’s square, where brought something to offer the pope offered reflections him, but the moment was on the day’s readings. still very special to him. 
“all of saint peter’s square “i guess it was more of an was really filled with people opportunity for me to come waiting to hear his message to him, to give him some-on a couple of readings that thing and to say something day,” segura said. “my fam-to him,” he said. “it was just ily speaks spanish because a very joyful moment.” my parents are argentine, before the one-on-one so when we spoke to him for meeting, segura said he about 30 seconds we spoke found francis’ reflec­in spanish.” tions profound and “very 
The family was ushered to inspirational.” a special section at the top “francis is italian and of the steps of the square, argentinian, and he’s got segura said, and francis those huge inflections made his way down the line in his voice, and he puts to talk individually to each unique emphasis on all person there. these points, which really 
The pope kept them wait-struck a chord with us,” ing, however, when he made he said. “his voice really a point of going directly to is compelling and draws a separate section of people your attention. it’s very with disabilites and talk-dynamic. ing to each of them first, “it’s different from read­segura said. ing what he has to say ver-Thanksgiving potluck that we can help with.” 
Harvest 

“There was a special thin sus seeing him and seeing will also support the holy The college’s mission 
conTinued from page 1 

section at the front where how he says it,” he said. 
cross harvest. statement declares the in-people with disabilities francis’ statements were 
indiana.” “we can do something stitution helps students or people in wheelchairs characterized by his hu-
Throughout the week, today to help kids who are promote a life of social were, and after he gave his mility and honesty, segura 
osce will sell T-shirts in hungry have food, to help responsibility, bulosan remarks, instead of com-said. 
exchange for food dona-families who are hun-said. ing to us, he went down to “he talked about how the 
tions. bulosan said she gry have food,” she said. “The holy cross harvest talk to them,” segura said. church is not holy because 
hopes harvest will in-allows saint mary’s wom­“he said many words to the people are holy; it’s 
crease awareness of home-en to … start making a dif­
“We often think 

each and every one of the holy because god is holy, 
lessness in the south bend 

ference in the world right people who were disabled, and everyone is a sinner,” 
area. 

of hunger as a now,” she said. and he took his time. Then segura said. “he made a 
on friday, students can 

problem elsewhere The holy cross harvest he came up to us.” really special emphasis 
“donate a meal” to the 
promotes the vision of the 
in the world. 

segura said he and his on how it’s not just the lay 
holy cross harvest. The 
holy cross community, 
There’s so much 

family were the last in the people who sin, but he is 
same day, milt lee, execu­
bulosan said. in our own “The holy line of people who had the a sinner too; we’re all sin­

tive director of the food 

cross broth-chance to meet francis. ners. it was very enlighten-
bank of northern indiana, 

community that ers and sisters founded “my brother, who gradu-ing to see how humble he 
will present in the student 
our schools with the same 
we can help with, 

ated from notre dame in was.” 
center about hunger in 
vision: to provide eccel­
and it’s really 

2010, went first, and he sort segura said francis con­michiana. 
lent educations so stu­of made a joke,” segura tinued his message of in­
“we often think of hun­

concrete, really dents can make a positive said. “he offered him a ro-clusion and openness with 
ger as a problem elsewhere 

immediate.” difference in the world,” sary, and i think francis both his words and his ac-
in the world,” bulosan 
she said. “The holy cross 
Jessica Bulosan 

was going to bless it, but my tions during the event. 
said. “There’s so much in 
harvest allows students to 
assistant director of OSCE 

brother actually said, ‘no, “he talked about the 
our own community that 

reach across school lines no, i want you to have it. church’s relationship to-
we can help with, and it’s to work together for some-you have many rosaries al-wards sinners and how we 
really concrete, really “That’s something that we thing positive.” ready, but please have this all have this mission to be 
immediate.” want to kind of open stu­one too.’ holy, no matter who you 
bulosan said dona-dents’ eyes to. There’s so Contact Samatha Castaneda at “and then i was next, are,” he said. “he said we 
tions given at the faculty much hunger right here scasta01@saintmarys.edu and i was kind of shocked. shouldn’t necessarily look i completely forgot what i for people who are like-was going to say.” minded, but rather, we 
segura said he brought should be open to everyone the book “The chapels of and welcome all. That spir­notre dame” from campus it and message of inclusion to give to the pope. was huge.” 
“i was talking to [pope after studying abroad in francis] and i was say-rome last fall and visiting ing ‘i’m a student at notre the vatican for easter vigil dame and you’re a huge mass last spring, segura inspiration,’” he said. “it said this trip was his third was all in spanish. There time in rome this year. was a priest with us who “i’ve been in close prox­had helped usher us in, and imity with francis twice he told me, ‘The book, give now,” he said. “i went to him the book,’ because i mass with [pope emeritus had completely forgotten benedict Xvi] last fall, about that and was about and every sunday at noon to not give it to him. [benedict] used to say a 
“so i realized where i couple words from his was, i got the book and i apartment, and i went to a gave it to him. i said, ‘This couple of those. i’m lucky book shows all the chapels that i really got to see at notre dame, that’s my the transition of the two school, i study there. This firsthand.” book has pictures of each and every chapel on cam-Contact Ann Marie pus, and i want to give it to Jakubowski at                    you as a gift.’” ajakubo1@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
D.C. group advocates for life 


INSIDE COLUMN 

hitting no. one 
Sara Shoemake 
graphic designer 

everyone has hobbies. one of mine is snapping selfies with unknowing celebrities in the distance. another is googling myself in hopes that i’ll be the no. one sara shoemake. it’s been my goal since high school and at first, i figured it wouldn’t be that hard. how many sara (with no h’s) shoemake’s (with no r’s ) could possibly exist on this planet. it turns out more than me. 
currently, my Twitter account is the second hit. right behind sara shoemake, the veterinary assistant from oregon. it’s going to be hard to usurp her posi­tion since she saves exotic animals like miniature donkeys and ball pythons. her presence is also quite robust on facebook, so i might have to become that annoying friend who posts 63 status updates every day (sorry). 
Then there’s a sara shoemake from ohio, who got arrested for failing to com­ply for a warrant for driving with a sus­pended license. sorry to hear about your arrest, sara, but mad props for the street cred you’ve added to our name on google. 
There were some adversaries who didn’t put up too much of a fight, like sara shoemake from the 1940 u.s. census. she was 10 at the time and lived in hamilton, Tenn. There isn’t much information on her afterwards, so i passed her up on the charts pretty quickly. 
reading through the results, i was pleased to see how accomplished we are. sara shoemake in south dakota came in 53rd place out of 85 in a 10K and sara shoemake from the uK has answered over 25 questions on yahoo! answers uK in the marriage and relationships section. i don’t know who could spend enough time on yahoo! answers to pro­vide thoughtful responses to ridiculous questions about love, but i’m sure it takes a lot of self-discipline. Keep up the good work, guys. 
my main competition is sara shoemake, all the way from atlanta. her Twitter interests include photography, acting and make-up. she works with actors like anthony hopkins and colin farrell so she might have an actual future in acting (although i selfishly hope she doesn’t because then she’ll most definitely be sara shoemake no. one). 
i get a lot of hate from my family, but that’s the thing about goals. There are always going to be a couple obstacles. you’ve got to find a way to overcome. Take it from me. i didn’t get to no. Two on google by sitting on the sidelines of life, listening to the haters. so if your dream is to become no. one, just remind the crit­ics of this: some people spend their whole lives trying to find themselves. now, thanks to google, i can find myself in .16 seconds. 
Contact Sara Shoemake at sshoemak@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Carter Boyd 
god, country, notre dame 
i, along with a group of fellow notre dame students, traveled to washington, d.c., just in time for the grand reopening of the federal govern­ment. Together we drove to the capitol for an immersive look into issues re­garding life and bioethics by meet­ing with various non-profit advocacy groups located in and around the d.c. area. 
regardless of the field, many advo­cacy and non-profit organizations tend to focus on one aspect or particular issue in order to realistically have a tangible effect in the organization’s particular service capacity or focus area. organizations dealing with life issues are no exception. many organi­zations exist that choose a particular issue regarding an aspect of life and seek to affect a positive change in the respect and dignity of human life in that area. some organizations focus on establishing peace by fighting for an end to war and violence, while others focus on providing food to the hungry. other organizations advocate an end to capital punishment, while others help care for people with disabilities. some organizations look to eliminate rac­ism, while others focus on aiding the impoverished. There are also organiza­tions that focus on issues protecting the beginning of life in its early stages, while others look to defend life nearing its end. 
i learned that many “pro-life” orga­nizations have been accused of not be­ing pro-life but rather “anti-abortion” or simply “pro-birth.” accusers cite that the organizations spend unimaginable time protesting roe v. wade, going to abortion clinics and engaging in side­walk counseling, volunteering at crisis pregnancy centers and encouraging women to choose life for their baby. 
however, these organizations fail to give much attention to other life is­sues including, but not restricted to, war, genetic testing, poverty, eugen­ics, racism, capital punishment and euthanasia. first, in response to these accusations, i would say that the pro-life organizations are not just “anti­abortion” or “pro-birth.” These pro-life organizations do uphold the sanctity of life from conception to natural death, which includes upholding the respect for human life in all life issues that i have already mentioned and those that i have left out as well. second, while these may be tough accusations for us who are pro-life to hear, especially those involved in pro-life groups and outreach, these accusations do present us with a good reminder of all that be­ing pro-life entails.
 The message of one of the organi­zations that our group met with in washington reiterates this point for us. “consistent life” is an organiza­tion that enacts its mission of being “committed to the protection of life, which is threatened in today’s world by war, abortion, poverty, racism, capital punishment and euthanasia. we believe that these issues are linked under a ‘consistent ethic of life’. we challenge those working on all or some of these issues to maintain a coopera­tive spirit of peace, reconciliation and respect in protecting the unprotected.” “consistent life” exists as a networking organization for pro-life groups across the spectrum and stands to advocate the dignity of every human life on a vast scope. one notable member of the organization is our very own fr. Theodore hesburgh. 
for catholics, the consistent life ethic is a part of the catholic social Teaching and the beliefs regarding the sanctity of every human life described in blessed John paul ii’s evangelium vitae. This consistent life ethic was popularized under the title “seamless garment of life” by cardinal bernardin. This mes­sage also echoes the words and actions of pope francis as the holy father has called all believers to deepen our love and respect for life. pope francis has done so by emphasizing service to peo­ple with disabilities, people in poverty, people who are hungry and all other people who are marginalized. our pope still maintains that we are to pro­tect the unborn lives and those nearing death, but he acknowledges that life is­sues are not limited to standing against abortion and euthanasia. rather, be­ing pro-life can’t just be a complacent personal decision or a way we vote, but being pro-life entails building a culture of life through the ways in which we treat others, through the decisions that we make and through the way we ulti­mately decide to live each day, as chil­dren of god in a world and society that holds and advocates a culture of death. 
evidence of this great disparity of the culture of death in our society is made visible in our nation’s polarizing two-party political system. one side holds a great importance of the social welfare by giving governmental aid to the poor and needy while at the same advocat­ing abortion and euthanasia. The other side holds a great importance in pro­tecting life at the beginning and ends of life, yet often fails to stress the impor­tance of helping the marginalized in society. both sides seem to be okay with the death penalty and war. how are we supposed to coexist with this system when we believe in dignity and respect for all human life in all circumstances? we must stay steadfast in our hope in god’s promise that life will defeat death and good will defeat darkness.
   Carter Boyd is a sophomore studying science-business. He can be reached at cboyd1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

double standards: a spooky reality 
Sarah Morris 
viewpoint columnist 

as the halloween festivities finally come to a close and the nerd glasses, construction hats and cat ears are tucked away for another year, our at­tention is quickly directed to the next season of festive starbucks cups and final exams. 
however, as i reflect on the past week, it occurred to me that this halloween — and its accompany­ing celebrations — provided me with a disheartening case study of the alarming double standards for men and women of notre dame. 
although they are widely discussed by faculty and students alike, both in and out of the classroom, the general consensus appears to go along the lines of “yeah, it’s not fair. but that’s just the way it goes.” while we all wit­ness these discrepancies regularly, it would be valuable to simply highlight one of the most blatant occurrences, even if only to spark conversation. 
Thursday nights for many notre dame students mean venturing off campus to the likes of club fever in downtown south bend. while the nightclub holds a strict “21 & over” policy, bouncers are notorious for accepting fake i.d.’s in exchange for anything from a pleading smile to a $20 bill wrapped around the card. because of this reputation, scores of underclassmen make weekly (often successful) attempts to gain entrance along with their older peers. This past Thursday — oct. 31 to all, “feve­o-ween” to many — proved to be no exception. in fact, the club fever hype was intensified with the addi­tion of costumes and general holiday merriment. 
This hype brought with it higher stakes and greater risks for the young­er crowd, for it was assumed across campus that large numbers of off-duty r.a.’s would be joining the cel­ebration. however, it quickly became clear that this heightened concern of off-campus repercussions was felt by only half of the underage population. 
as the younger women of notre dame worriedly deliberated and anxiously calculated risk throughout the week — even going as far to plan costumes that included masks and other forms of disguise out of fear. Their male peers confidently chuck­led with casual responses of, “i hope i see him there, he’ll definitely buy me a beer!” for nearly all of notre dame’s women’s dorms, the instance of coming into contact with an r.a. is almost certain to result in seri­ous disciplinary action, including confiscation of any illegitimate iden­tification, meetings with rectors and meeting with community standards. however, if an underage resident of any male dorm on campus is to run into his r.a., he will more than likely be slapped on the back and handed a drink, or ignored (if the r.a. is a real stickler). 
There are many problems with this pattern. worse, these issues can be directly blamed neither on the under­age rule-breakers, nor their respec­tive r.a.’s. rather, it seems that the looming institutions and accepted behaviors are what perpetuate such standards that, when plainly drawn out, should seem outrageous to any logical person. it is not that the male r.a.’s are failing at their responsibili­ties, nor are the female r.a.’s cruelly exerting excessive control over their residents — all individuals are simply performing what they perceive to be their duties. 
while i am sure there is a written rule located somewhere in the depths of du lac, it is plainly accepted and maintained, at high levels of author­ity, that male r.a.’s can interact off-campus with their underage students in one manner, while female r.a.’s absolutely cannot. in the case of the underage students, while they are all breaking the law and school policies, the consequences of their actions are so substantially different that there may as well be two separate rules, based fully on gender. 
i am unsure of any one solution to a problem based on unspoken realities, but discussion is often the first step. The most important second step is to move past the complacent conclu­sions of “that’s just the way it is,” and work to make concrete changes. 
in regards to my own personal in­terests, i will enthusiastically refrain from promoting any specific modifi­cations, but the two options appear to be the universal embrace of one of the two current policies: either all underage students face severe conse­quences that affect study abroad, fur­ther educational endeavors and even job prospects if caught at a 21 and over venue, or a blind eye is turned as long as no immediate harm to self or others is being done. regardless of the option chosen, either would far surpass the current system, which promotes the horrifyingly sexist and chauvinistic tendencies for which notre dame is unfortunately known. 
Sarah Morris can be contacted at smorris8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
no greater recruiting honor 
dear mr. mike mayock, 

during the notre dame-navy game last saturday, you began the game by commenting that, “every navy kid has a chip on their shoul­der that he wasn’t more highly recruited.” 
i simply couldn’t disagree more. These fine young men have been recruited to much more than to simply show up for football on a saturday. They have been recruited to fly over the skies of afghanistan, spend months at a time patrolling the seas, to interpret critical pieces of intelligence and to parachute behind enemy lines in search of some of the most evil forces on earth. naval academy graduates be­come u.s. marines, navy seals, doctors, law­yers, engineers and above all leaders for our nation. 
football may be a huge part of their lives, but just because they wear a football uniform on saturdays doesn’t mean their navy uniforms are collecting dust in their closets the other six days of the week. 
mr. mayock, the midshipmen who burst into notre dame stadium on saturday are much more than ballplayers. They are future military officers who treasure your freedom so greatly that they are willing to sacrifice everything to protect it. please honor and respect their dedi­cation to you, their fellow american, by recog­nizing that there is no higher recruiting honor then being chosen to humbly serve, defend and potentially die for your country. 
Katy Sidrow Milwaukee, Wisc. Class of 2008 Nov. 3 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

“maTangi” should come with a six-step manual that goes like this: apply aviator sunglasses, grab nearest nerf gun, obtain obnoxiously large boom box, insert “maTangi,” assemble posse, march around campus, profit. 
Then again, “maTangi” is the sort of album that im­plies that you should be doing that sort of thing. m.i.a. has never been one for subtlety — her albums are full of huge beats, lyrical mantras and massive samples. as the daughter of a sri-lankan social activist on the run from the government, m.i.a.’s impoverished, war-filled child­hood shaped her into a social warrior of sorts, pushing her to make powerful music aimed to raise awareness of global issues. her debut album, “arular,” showcased m.i.a.’s unique hybrid of hip-hop and world music with relatively simple and stripped-down instrumentation. over her next two albums, m.i.a. stuffed more and more into her sound, resulting in an exciting balance on sophomore album “Kala” but a cluttered mess on follow-up “maya.” 
Thankfully, “maTangi” reverses this trend, clean­ing up “maya’s” sound with better layering and spacing sounds. an armada of samples and synths explodes and 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

alexa chung? i am both aghast and excited when people say they do not know she is. alexa is a dJ/model/ girl who pretty much makes her living off of being cool. when people admit they haven’t heard of her, i am at first appalled by their obvious lack of trend cultivation, but then i relish in the idea since it makes me look that much cooler for knowing who she is. she is the face of effortless fashion and i admittedly idolize her. however, her novel, if it can be called that, made me realize the silliness of idolizing those famous for their “vibes” and not their wis­dom or talents. 
chung radiates a cool, easy-going vibe and her style reflects this. pictures of her bangs have been held in the hands of many as they enter the hair salon, yearning to exit a bit trendier than they entered. i am guilty of adding many pictures of her outfits to a board entitled “my style” on pinterest, although alexa chung’s style is not my style. 
retreats throughout the album, allowing songs to mount insane energy without overheating. This production style ensures that “maTangi” is a hook-filled monster with a thousand memorable moments. whether it’s the mac-computer volume sound effects during the build­up on “come walk with me” or the sputtering base drop on “warriors.” bursts of energy continually drive “maTangi” forward. 
“maTangi” is also incredibly successful due to its ability to recast common trends in music in new and exciting forms. The bass heavy, reverb jam of “lights” sounds like a lorde song chanted to tribal drums. “double bubble Trouble” pairs the lowered-vocals and dubstep and rap hybrid of a$ap rocky’s “wild for the night” with middle eastern instruments to give life to that sound. “exodus” and “Know it ain’t right” employ high-floating vocal lines that echo the indie r&b scene. The very fact that “maTangi” incorporates so many different styles into its sound and yet still feels coherent is a feat within itself. “maTangi” feels fresh, familiar and complete all at the same time — something ex­tremely rare in the music industry, and even rarer for a so-called pop album. 
on top of all of that, “maTangi” has m.i.a. still spit­ting ridiculous lyrics. who’s going to forget “Truth is like a rotten tooth, you got to spit it out!” and “bombs go 
i may take ideas from her, but never will i be able to af­ford the expensive pieces she is handed by designers who want people to see an “it” girl wearing their designs. 
chung’s book, entitled “it,” is something i would never gravitate towards in a bookstore. it features a pale pink cover with an eye on the front. alas, i bought this book with one easy click on amazon at midnight, a habit that has become one of my vices. my idea behind the purchase was that it would boost my cool factor, both through style advice and just by carrying around a book written by alexa chung. i envisioned chic times spent reading in the library while drinking tea, listening to indie music and charming guys with my obvious carefree, cool tenden­cies. in reality i sat on my bed eating microwaved mac and cheese out of a cup, listening to “bangerz” and flip­ping through the pages in less than an hour, as there was a severe lack of substance to the work. 
i was met with “artistic” pictures of chairs, sub-par doodles of faces and of course the occasional ironic cat picture. i received some killer fashion advice, such as off when i enter the building” from “bring The noize” or “if you only live once why we keep doing the same ****?”  from “boom (skit)”? and of course, “live fast die young bad girls do it well” along with every other lyric from single “bad girls.” proclamations abound here and you’re invited to shout along. 
“maTangi” is a huge, necessary return to form for 
m.i.a. it may not have the same world-shaking lyri­cal relevance or element of surprise that “arular” and “Kala” boasted, but maybe it doesn’t need to. m.i.a. feels on top of the world here — her music and lyrics scream confidence, and it’s just so fun to be part of her world. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“MATANGI” 
M.I.A. 
Label: N.E.E.T. Tracks: “Bad Girls,” “Only I U,” “Warriors” If you like: Die Antwoord, Major Lazer 

“look in a mirror after you get dressed in the morning.” There was also a spread on how to take a flattering selfie, which is of course to be done ironically and with a film camera. chung admits to having a problem for buying leather jackets although she can only tell real from syn­thetic apart by checking the tags, which i have trouble understanding. i own one leather jacket, which i proudly purchased from a department store at the mall with a generous coupon. 
chung thinks it’s cute and unique that she wrote the work without microsoft word. To that i would like to respond that i have completed half a semester of engi­neering courses so far without owning word or excel (or a graphing calculator). Take that alexa. also, the use of email as the medium is apparent in the lack of coherence in this over-priced diary. The text is arbitrary fluff and if you’re considering purchasing this book, i advise you to forget “it.” 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulf@nd.edu 



By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 

any film starring ben affleck and Justin Timberlake, whose films in the last three years have combined for roughly $660 million at the box office as well as 16 oscar nominations and six wins, would be a safe bet, one might think. critical and financial success aside, affleck and Timberlake are both media darlings with long, storied ca­reers that makes it seem like no matter what they do, they’re playing with house money. 
so when 20th century fox decided to roll the dice and bankroll “runner, runner” from writing team brian Koppelman and david levien, who hit the jackpot on their first film, “rounders,” in 1998, but have been mostly just grinding out average projects since, it sounded like a good play. 
but even though fox and the team of producers that in­cludes hollywood ace leonardo dicaprio went all in on the usually reliable pair of stars, they never should’ve anteed up 
— “runner, runner” is a bust from start to finish. 
Timberlake plays richie furst, a princeton grad student trying to grind his way through school, paying his bills by acting as a recruiter of sorts for an online gambling site. but when a fellow student outs his racket to the dean, richie is forced to go for broke in internet gambling in order to stay in school. 
unfortunately for him though, internet gambling isn’t the most reputable service in the world, and richie finds him­self down to the felt after being cheated out of his money. 
he decides to bluff his way into a costa rican party host­ed by the king of internet gambling, ivan block, played by affleck. block plays his cards close to his chest when richie finally goes heads up with him about being cheated out of his money but the next day offers richie a job as a sort of jack of all trades for his gambling website. 
next thing you know, richie is in a river of money. he starts to see, though, that if he stays employed with block, an fbi investigation may be in the cards. 
richie decides to sneak a few cards up his sleeve before ivan can run the table on him and leave his as the fall man for his illegal activity. 
when block finally puts his cards on the table and tries to leave richie in costa rica, flush with a host of fbi agents on his trail, richie doesn’t miss a trick and unveils his ace in the hole; rebecca shafran (gemma arterton), the Queen of block’s organization, is in love with richie, not block. richie makes a deal with the fbi to inform on block, but hedges his bets by fleeing the country anyways and letting the chips fall where they may. 
all in all, this is a really, really bad movie. affleck is ad­mirable in his role as an egomaniac gambling magnate, but Timberlake is an uninteresting flop as a graduate student with a raw deal. a lot of the story doesn’t make 


in honor of just how terrible of a movie “runner, runner” was, here’s an infinitely more enjoyable playlist of music about gambling in some way, shape or form. 
sense, there’s no real insight into the world of online gam­blin, and the costa rican setting somehow manages to be blander than the scenes shot on princeton’s campus. 
with how many things have to go right beyond just the script and the acting in order for a movie to be successful, it must be like russian roulette sometimes for actors when choosing projects. hopefully this was just a bad turn for the two stars, who have both established themselves as re­spectable actors with an eye for good projects in the last few years. 
but as for “runner, runner,” hedge your bets and sit this one out, because in terms of good gambling movies, it’s no dice. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
“Runner, Runner” 
Brad Furman 
Producer: Leonardo DiCaprio Starring: Ben Affleck, Justin Timerlake Genre: Crime/Drama 

Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 


“House of the Rising Sun” 
The Animals 
“Poker Face” 
Lady Gaga 
“The Gambler” 
Kenny Rogers 
“Joker and the Thief” 
Wolfmother 
“Blackjack” 
Ray Charles 
“Viva Las Vegas” 
Elvis Presley 

“Lonesome Loser” 
Little River Band 
“The Card Cheat” 
Clash 
“Tumbling Dice” 
The Rolling Stones 
“Ramblin’ Gamblin’ Man” 
Bob Seger 
“Desperado” 
The Eagles 
“Gambler” 
Madonna 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

What happens in the cafeteria 

Matthew DeFranks 
assistant managing editor 
what happens in vegas stays in vegas. what happens in the locker room stays in the locker room. 
what happens in the caf­eteria stays in the cafeteria? apparently not. 
a different side of the football fraternity reared its head this week when dolphins offensive lineman Jonathan martin left the team after some teammates teased him in the cafeteria. he missed miami’s Thursday night win over cincinnati with what was being called an “illness.” 
martin is reportedly seek­ing emotional help during his absence from the team and his return date is unknown. 
but this incident brings out more questions than, “when is martin coming back to play football and smash into other 300-pound men that are trying to drag people to the ground?” 
what was said to him? was there something done to him as well? is this a common thing in the nfl? is this a common thing with the dolphins? has martin been teased a lot before? how much stress are these players under? 
These questions are not the ones dolphins coach Joe philbin wants to answer this week. instead of tossing love and support out to martin through the media, philbin probably would enjoy having his right tackle back on the team — which, by the way, won for the first time since the gov­ernment closed. 
Teammates sounded like they would welcome back martin with open arms if or when he returns to the ’fins, even if they were the ones who started this madness in the first place. 
according to reports, martin was called a “big weirdo,” among other things, which likely were not fit for print nor television. no one knows what situation in which was said, or with what tone or even if martin responded. but the fact is that those two words got out. 
what happened in the cafete­ria did not stay in the cafeteria. 
more reports surfaced sunday that dolphins offen­sive lineman richie incognito was the man to blame and the dolphins have suspended him indefinitely. incognito report­edly told martin to pay for a $15,000 trip to las vegas for the offensive line that martin was not even going to. 
what was going to happen in vegas did not stay in vegas. 
now, every opposing defen­sive lineman will be taunting martin with “big weirdo” jabs or “crybaby” jokes. every coach will think that if martin can­not take teasing from his own teammates, will he be able to handle me yelling at him? 
martin may always be known as “that one guy who left the salad bar after his teammates called him names” even though he went to stanford and had started the first 23 games in his career. unless he comes back as a pro bowler, his career could be defined by this bizarre incident. 
but is coming back to the nfl really such a good move for a 24-year-old man with emotion­al issues? 
at a time like this, you have to think about the person before you think about the football player. clearly, martin is. if he wasn’t, he would have suited up for miami on Thursday. no one but martin knows what he is going through and if he thinks some time off is best, it prob­ably is. 
but this is not something you can put a timetable on. 
he did not tear his acl, break his collarbone or suffer a con­cussion. you do not know if he is out for nine months, four weeks or five days. he probably does not even know. Just like you do not know what mood you will wake up in tomorrow morning, martin does not know if his is­sues will be resolved. 
i do not personal know martin and have no idea if he truly is a “big weirdo.” but if he is, he is the dolphins’ “big weirdo.” 
he is philbin’s “big weirdo.” he is the offensive line’s “big weirdo.” he is the fans’ “big weirdo.” 
and that does not have to stay in the cafeteria. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC VOLLEYBALL | sainT mary’s 3, adrian 2 
belles win, clinch spot in miaa tournament 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
going into their match against adrian, the belles had a relatively simple goal: win, or the season was over. 
after a hard-fought match that went all five sets, the belles (12-14, 8-8 miaa) cap­tured the 3-2 victory (25-11, 25­22, 23-25, 22-25, 15-9) over the bulldogs (11-17, 4-12 miaa), to extend their season and place them in the miaa conference tournament for the first time since 2008. 
belles coach Toni elyea said she could not be prouder of her team’s resilience. 
“[clinching a spot] has been on our minds since last fall when we missed our goal by two wins,” elyea said. “it was a very tough competitive year in the miaa. it takes a team that wants to put the team before themselves to have the success that we have had so far this year, and we have teammates like [sophomore right side] Jen georgeson, [junior outside hit­ter] brooke fowler and [junior setter] carolyn schafer who are going to do whatever they can to help their teammates. we would not be where we are without every single one of them contributing to the best of their abilities.” 
offensively, the belles ben­efitted from a balanced back line. Junior libero meredith mersits had 27 digs on the evening, while junior out­side hitter Kati schneider and sophomore outside hitter Katie hecklinski both posted a double-double. schneider had 11 digs and 24 kills and hecklinski had 17 digs and 19 kills. Junior libero samantha grady had 13 digs. 
however, the belles cannot spend too much time celebrat­ing, elyea said, as their next test will prove to be a chal­lenge. for the first match of the tournament the belles drew the calvin Knights (27-1, 15-1 miaa), who are the top-ranked team in the tournament. 
elyea recognizes the chal­lenge, as well as what her team needs to do to win. 
“we are not only going up against the top team in our conference, we are once again going up against the top team in the country,” elyea said. “we love this about our conference. we are happy to have this level of volleyball in the miaa and be able to compete against the very best that division iii vol­leyball has to offer.” 
“we are going to focus on our serve and pass game, and playing against a tough block. we are going to have to play the best volleyball that we are capable of to get the win.” 
The belles take on the Knights on friday at calvin for the first round of the miaa conference tournament at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 
MLB 
beards go for benefits 
Associated Press 
bosTon — world series mvp david ortiz and boston red sox teammate shane victorino had their beards shaved for charity monday to benefit victims of the boston marathon bombings in april. 
The “shave offs” occurred at gillette’s world headquarters. The boston company donat­ed $100,000 to the one fund, which is assisting victims and their families of the bombings on april 15. Three people were killed and over 260 injured near the finish line that day. 
ortiz, fresh off his third world series title with the red sox, joked that it’s a perfect look for his offseason. 
“i’m going down south 

FOR RENT 
Spring Semester Rental. Prime location next to Eddy Street. 
Email  for  photos  and  additional  
info  nd-house@sb cglobal.net  
“Two  Step”  - Dave  Matthews  

Say, my love, I came to you with best intentions/You laid down and gave to me just what I’m seeking/Love, you drive me to distraction/Hey my love do you believe that we might last a thousand years/Or more if not for this,/Our flesh and blood/It ties 
— some place warm,” he said. “i feel fresh. i’ve got to keep it real. it’s not that cold down there.” 
sitting in one of two barber’s chairs to ortiz’s right, victorino appeared a bit shocked when he looked into a hand-held mirror and realized his beard and goa­tee were completely gone. 
“i’m a world series champion and i look like i’m 12-years old,” he said. 
ortiz had his most of his beard shaved off, leaving only a goatee. 
“he’s a three-time champ and i’m a two-time champ, and he’s a little more tenured in the city than i am,” victorino said. “it’s different look for me and some­thing i’m definitely not accus­tomed to.” 
but he did find another reason to enjoy his fresh look. 
“my kids will be excited,” he said. “i don’t know if they’re go­ing to recognize me when i walk in the door. my daughter was tugging on it last night and said, ‘when are you going to shave it?’ i didn’t want to let the secret out. she was still sleeping when i left this morning.” 
ortiz couldn’t resist teasing his now fresh-faced teammate. 
“he looks like he’s in fifth grade. you going back to school?” big papi said. “mine will grow very fast. i don’t think i’ll have any problems letting it grow. i don’t know about this guy.” 
victorino said he’s hoping to grow a beard back by spring training. 
“it was a battle. we fought to get that beard,” victorino said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
you and me right up/Tie me down 
Celebrate we will/Because life is short but sweet for certain/ We’re climbing two by two/To be sure these days continue/ These things we cannot change 
Hey, my love, you came to me like wine comes to this mouth/Grown tired of water all the time/You quench my heart and you quench my mind 
Celebrate we will/Because life is short but/Sweet for certain/ We’re climbing two by two/To be sure these days continue/ The things we cannot/Celebrate, you and me, climbing two by two, to be sure/These days con­tinue, things we cannot change 
Oh, my love I came to you/With best intentions/You laid down and gave to me/Just what I’m seeking 
Celebrate we will/Because life is short/But sweet for certain/We’re climbing two by two/To be sure these days continue/Things we cannot change.../Things we can­not change 



SMC VOLLEYBALL | sainT mary’s 5, Trine 0 
Saint Mary’s finishes season with shutout 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
behind an overpowering of­fensive attack and a stingy de­fense, saint mary’s capped off its season monday with a 5-0 shut­out win over Trine, ending the season on a four-game winning streak. 
“we really played well as a team today, especially offensive­ly,” belles junior defender and co-captain mary Kate hussey said. “we were able attack ag­gressively and confidently, and really played as one unit.” 
senior midfielder and co-captain mollie valencia, play­ing in her last game in a belles uniform, got saint mary’s (10­7-3, 8-5-3 miaa) on the board early, when freshman forward emily rompola sent a pass from the right sideline to a sprinting valencia at the top of the box. valencia took a touch before sending the ball to the back of the net for her second goal of the year. 
“That was great to see [mollie] get a goal in her last game,” Joyce said. 
belles freshman forward rosie biehl took the reins from there. 
in the 35th minute, a belles shot deflected off a Thunder defender right to an awaiting biehl on the left side of the box, who sent a shot past senior Trine goalkeeper Jamie schnarr into the far side of the net. 
in the 47th minute, biehl re­ceived a pass from junior for­ward Kelly wilson on the left side of the box, sneaking a low shot between the left post and schnarr to give the belles a 3-0 lead and biehl a team-leading eighth goal on the year. 
“rosie’s really hit her stride the past few games with four goals in three games,” Joyce said. “it’ll be exciting to see what she can do the next three years.” 
senior forward Jordan diffenderfer added her second goal of the season in the 73rd minute off a scramble in the box, while sophomore rachel schulte added to the blowout with her first goal of the season four min­utes later off an assist from se­nior forward Kaitlin Teichman, giving the belles their fifth goal of the afternoon. 
Junior goalkeepers chanler rosenbaum and natalie warner combined for the shutout. warner saved the lone shot on goal from the Thunder (2-17, 1-15) as the belles defensive unit held Trine to just three shots. 



already out of contention for the miaa tournament, hussey said the belles were playing for pride monday. 
“There wasn’t any pressure to score or win this game for our 
paid adverTisemenT 
record,” hussey said. “we want­ed to do it for ourselves and our seniors. … we wanted to send them off well.” 
The belles conclude the sea­son in fifth place in the miaa, three points behind fourth-place adrian. The top four teams make the postseason conference tournament. 
“we came up a win short, but this team plays some sublime soccer and had a good year,” Joyce said. “we’ll work hard for a shot at it next year.” 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Interhall 
of the gate, rushing the ball down the field each possession. 
conTinued from page 16 

sophomore receiver Theresa Kozelka helped farley take the despite that, fisher said she lead, scoring both of the team’s was still happy with the wild touchdowns in the first half. women’s effort. senior captain and receiver 
“i think we played well over-lauren ladowski pushed the all,” fisher said. offense down the field with This was the last game of the clutch catches and carries season for both teams. throughout the game. 
“we really came out to play Contact Alexandra Lane at in this matchup,” ladowski alane2@nd.edu said. “we didn’t let our record 
affect us and just gave it our all Pasquerilla East 31, Badin 0 and left our hearts out on the field.” 
By MATTHEW GARCIA 

sports writer despite the win, the finest finish with a losing record and 
The defense of playoff-bound will not be in contention for pasquerilla east shut down the post-season playoffs. badin offense 31-0 in a state-cavanaugh made a run to tie ment win. the game in the last minutes 
The pyros (5-1) ended the of the fourth quarter, driving season on a high note, with the ball down the field, but was three interceptions, including stopped just short of the first one returned for a touchdown. down on a fourth-and-eight 
Junior quarterback macy play. captain and senior line­mulhall capped off the regu-backer meaghan ayers said she lar season by completing six of noticed a few key mistakes that eight pass attempts for 67 yards kept the chaos from securing and three touchdowns, while victory. adding 49 yards on the ground. “i think our main issues in freshman cornerback maddie this matchup were the lack of mcgovern played a key role communication and aware-for our last regular season mary Kate veselik praised her sunday with a decisive win over on defense and special teams ness,” ayers said. “whenever game, and we did that. our de-team’s effort, especially the of-lewis, shutting the chicks (2-4) with two interceptions total-we misread a play or didn’t fense had some great stops, and fensive side of the ball. out 32-0. ing 37 yards, a punt return of communicate correctly with we’re ready for the playoffs.” “we played a great game The purple weasels (6-0) the same length and a key pass one another, farley was able to conaty threw for another overall, but our offense stood showed off their potent pass-deflection. capitalize.” touchdown on the first wildcat out today,” veselik said. “i am ing attack, as freshman receiv­
senior receiver bethany ayers said cavanaugh will possession of the first half to go excited for this team and the er monica busse caught two young added her first touch-need to play better if they hope up 35-0 before the whirlwinds potential we have to make a touchdowns and freshman re-down of the season on a 10-yard to advance in the playoffs. (2-4-0) got a stop on an inter-playoff run.” ceiver elle steichen made one. pass late in the fourth quarter. “The team really hopes to ception from junior defensive pangborn’s near flawless of-The pasquerilla west de­
looking forward to the post-turn things around [in the back Taylor reck. whirlwinds fensive performance was aided fense also played a major part season, senior defensive line-playoffs] and make improve-senior captain and linebacker by the play of junior quarter-in the victory, scoring more man and captain caroline ments all around to assure that carissa henke said she was back caitlin gargan. The do-points than they allowed on Kuse said she is excited to see we are in the best shape pos-disappointed in the loss but it-all quarterback led the team sophomore cornerback bernie what her team can do. sible,” ayers said. also proud of her team, espe-with four total touchdowns as Jordan’s interception return for 
“our defense is on fire,” Kuse The chaos will have an op-cially the seniors. she continually beat mcglinn’s a touchdown. said. “i am jacked up and ready portunity to show off their “we came together as a team, defenders with both her arm senior captain and lineback­to go after it.” improvements in the quarterfi-and while things didn’t really and her legs. gargan said, how-er breezi Toole said she was 
The bullfrogs (0-6) could not nals sunday against pangborn, go our way today, we worked ever, that it was her teammates pleased with her team’s per-capitalize on some big plays, while the finest have complet-hard and gave it all we’ve got,” who made her great perfor-formance and improvement all including a 38-yard rush by ed their season. henke said. “i’d really like to mance possible. season, and she looks forward freshman receiver melange thank my fellow seniors andrea “we have a complete offense, to the playoffs. gavin. a first drive that saw Contact Rebecca Rogalski at cescolini, Julia concelman, so we can mix it up as much as “i think that we worked well two sacks, one by way of a fum-rrogalsk@nd.edu stephanie lobaccaro, Jill we like,” gargan said. “as long together as a team,” Toole said. bled snap, and ended in an in-briody and Katie Knapp for as we limit mistakes and play “we’ve come so far from our terception indicated things to Ryan 41, Welsh Family 0 playing amazing this year.” as a team, the sky’s the limit.” first practice to here, and i’m come. a final conaty touchdown after winning the champi-just proud of the way everyone’s 
By ALEX CARSON 

sophomore quarterback and sports writer pass finished the scoring onship the past two seasons, grown. we’re going to have nor-captain Tina Techar ran for 42 for the wildcats, who were mcglinn ended this season mal practices this week and yard but also threw three in-ryan was firing on all cylin-able to keep the ball in the just before the playoffs. senior tighten up any mistakes we terceptions. senior defensive ders sunday as they recorded a whirlwind’s half of the field for captain and receiver Tara made to make sure we’re start-lineman morgan benson said 41-0 victory over welsh family all but the opening three plays crown looked back at the sea-ing off with our best game in even in the winless season, behind a strong performance of the game. son positively, however, as she the playoffs.” the leadership of senior Kelly from freshman quarterback ryan will face lyons in the praised her team’s dedication meanwhile, the loss ended harmon was still inspiring. Kathleen conaty. quarterfinals next sunday, and heart. lewis’ season. however, senior 
“if we had a team of Kelly The wildcats (5-0-1) marched while welsh family will look “we had a tough season, captain and receiver colleen harmon[s], we would have down the field on their first toward next season. one unfortunately cut short,” haller said she thinks the went all the way,” benson said. possession, scoring on a five-crown said. “i hope mcglinn chicks will be back with a ven-
The pyros will look to bring yard rush by conaty. They led Contact Alex Carson at can get back to its winning geance next season. their momentum into the 7-0 after the first quarter be-acarson1@nd.edu ways next year, but this team “it didn’t go our way, obvi­quarterfinals against howard, fore exploding for 21 points in showed its heart every game, ously, but i hope the girls had while badin will head into the the second behind two touch-Pangborn 34, McGlinn 7 and i’m proud of that.” fun, and it was fun just to play offseason. down passes and a rushing pangborn hopes to continue for the last time,” haller said. 
By JOSE FERNANDEZ 

touchdown from sophomore sports writer its success heading into the “we were able to get a lot of Contact Matthew Garcia at running back sarah morris to playoffs next sunday against girls playing time, as well as mgarci15@nd.edu grab a 28-0 lead at the halfway in the final game of the regu-cavanaugh, while mcglinn teach them, since we had so 
point. lar season, pangborn played looks to retool for next season. many freshmen. i definitely Farley 13, Cavanaugh 6 “Kathleen [conaty] did a like a team ready for a champi-think they’ll be prepared for great job of reading the de-onship run as it beat mcglinn Contact José Fernández at next year.” 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI sports writer fense,” senior captain and 34-7. jfernan9@nd.edu The undefeated purple offensive linesman andrea The phoxes (5-0-1) stormed weasels will face welsh family in sunday’s head-to-head carlson said. “[sophomore out the gates and took a 14-0 Pasquerilla West 32, Lewis 0 in the first round of the playoffs matchup between cavanaugh wide receiver] erin clark had lead after the first quarter and sunday, while lewis is done for 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 

and farley, the finest (2-4) some awesome touchdown did not look back as they kept sports writer the year. emerged victorious, defeating grabs, and our offense com-scoring at will against the the chaos (3-3) 13-6. municated very well. we were shamrocks (2-4). senior cap-pasquerilla west completed Contact Renee Griffin at 
The finest came strong out looking to put up big numbers tain and offensive lineman an undefeated regular season rgriffi6@nd.edu 




M Interhall 
across the middle to freshman receiver anthony valera. 
conTinued from page 16 
after a successful two-point 

conversion and a Zahm punt, down. This is the last game [in carroll again made its way which] i’ll ever wear pads, and down the field and finished i could not be more proud.” with a four-yard touchdown 
The griffins will look to-run by freshman running back ward next year, while Keenan Zach dodd. will gear up to defend its title “we scored on every offen­against dillon on sunday. sive possession except at the 
very end,” senior captain mike Contact Josh Dulany at russell said. “we looked good jdulany@nd.edu there today.” 
on the next play, Zahm Keough 7, O’Neill 0 sophomore quarterback Tim coen connected on a long pass 
By CORNELIUS McGRATH 

sports writer down the sideline to sopho­
more receiver Travis allen for a 

in a battle that could have 65-yard touchdown reception gone either way, Keough even-to cut the lead to 15-7 heading tually came out on top, nar-into halftime. rowly defeating o’neill 7-0 “That was a big touchdown sunday. to have before half,” senior 
neither team reached the captain Joseph rice said. end zone on offense, as both Zahm (0-4) again moved into struggled to get momentum vermin territory, but valera going. came up big for the vermin on 
The Kangaroos’ defense has the defensive end, caught a de­been the strongest asset all flected pass and returned it for season for Keough (3-1), and a 70-yard touchdown. once again it proved its worth “They got behind us and in the final regular-season scored ... so we needed to come game. sophomore defensive back, and we did,” valera said end william fields capitalized about the crucial interception. on a fumbled ball and ran it The next Zahmbie pass was to the end zone from the five-also intercepted and returned like our chances.” otters failed to convert on the ramblers (3-1) trounced the yard line with just two min-by senior safety Tommy morrissey (1-3) was not two-point conversion. highlanders’ defense as all utes left in the fourth quarter spoonmore, making the score without its chances. Junior sorin sophomore captain four touchdowns came on the for the contest’s only score. 29-7, and a lost fumble on the receiver Timothy cole hauled and running back and defen-ground. freshman running 
Keough senior captain and next possession sealed Zahm’s in a 32-yard pass from junior sive back John pearl said he back dan verzuh led the rush-quarterback seamus donegan fate. ryan lindquist but couldn’t believed defense was critical ing attack, gaining 127 yards said he was delighted with the “we didn’t put up any wins, quite keep his footing long for both sides. along with three touchdowns. late victory. but we had fun,” rice said enough to get into the end “defensively, our adjust-“This is probably the best 
“it’s difficult to put into about the Zahmbies’ season. zone.  ment was really good,” pearl season of football i have ever words what that win meant “That’s all we were here to do.” The manor squandered their said. “Their defense, overall, played in terms of how much i for us,” donegan said. “o’neill Zahm’s season is over, but only red-zone opportunity was pretty impressive with am contributing,” verzuh said. played an awesome game and carroll plays sunday in the with a turnover-on-downs just three picks.” “our running game is very made our lives very difficult, first round of the playoffs four plays later. st. edward’s defense also good: we have a great fullback, but i am over the moon that we against fisher. nonetheless, senior captain featured a fourth quarter great line and they are giving managed to pull through.” and offensive lineman patrick fumble recovery by senior me huge holes to run through, 
The angry mob (1-3) fought Contact Andrew Robinson at valencia said he was generally andrew blonigan that stopped so if we keep playing this way throughout the game and had arobins6@nd.edu pleased with his team’s effort. the otters deep in st. edward’s we’ll be great [in the playoffs].” numerous opportunities, es-“The defense kept the team territory. in addition to the ramblers’ pecially on defense, to make a Knott 7, Morrissey 0 in the game,” valencia said. The otters missed an oppor-offense, their defense was able breakthrough. “we kept fighting, and we had tunity to take the lead when to shut down the highlanders on 
By EVAN ANDERSON 

o’neill junior captain and sports writer a chance at the end. This team they attempted a field goal offense and force six turnovers. running back donghoon lee is already excited for next with less than a minute left in siegfried senior lineman Jack said he liked how the team The Knott defense forced its year.” the game. The kick was short, moore said he believed this went about competing. second consecutive shutout morrissey’s season is over, finalizing the gentlemen’s 14-game was important for his 
“it was a tough loss, but i am in a 7-0 win over morrissey while Knott matches up 13 victory. team in terms of finding some incredibly proud of the guys,” and punched its playoff ticket against alumni on sunday in st. edward’s junior captain momentum after the long fall lee said. “They have come out, sunday. the first round of the playoffs. and running back and cor-break. worked incredibly hard this Juggerknotts junior quarter-nerback ryan majsak said the “we look to work on bringing year and made us the best we back david Taiclet threw for Contact Evan Anderson at gentlemen played a tough, the right mindset to the games have been in a while. i simply 164 yards and the game’s only eander11@nd.edu consistent game overall. in the playoffs,” moore said. couldn’t have asked for any-touchdown, and sophomore “our team’s strength today “we can’t [play unfocused] or thing more.” receiver Jack Taiclet caught St. Edward’s 14, Sorin 13 was grittiness, and we put it else they will make us pay for it.” 
with the win, Keough is five passes for 81 yards from all out there and came out duncan junior captain and 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 

now into the playoffs and his older brother. sports writer with a victory,” majsak said. center alan Keck said he was will face siegfried on sunday, however, it was freshman “if we had played like we did disappointed with the way the while o’neill looks toward connor fox who broke the st. edward’s defeated sorin today all season, we would be season ended but was con-next season for another shot scoreless tie in the second 14-13 on sunday in a battle 4-0 with the first-seed posi-tent with the toughness the at victory. quarter with a 30-yard touch-that came down to the last tion in the playoffs.” team displayed. duncan (0-4) 
down reception from Taiclet minute of play. neither team advanced to dressed only 11 players for the Contact Cornelius McGrath at to give Knott (2-2) a 7-0 lead. senior quarterback paul the playoffs, so both look to game. cmcgrat2@nd.edu The Juggerknott offense fal-rodriguez scored the first make the postseason next “we moved the ball pretty 
tered in the second half, gain-touchdown for the gentlemen year. well, but too many penalties Carroll 29, Zahm 7 ing just 21 total yards, but the (2-2-0) in the first half. The killed us,” Keck said. “This 
defense stiffened for the sec-otters (1-2-1) responded when Contact Christina Kochanski year’s juniors are going to meet 

By ANDREW ROBINSON sports writer ond week in a row. junior quarterback patrick at ckochans@nd.edu up in the offseason to talk about Knott senior captain and power threw to sophomore the offense and defense for next in the regular-season finale defensive end James hodgens receiver Jake yurek for a Siegfried 25, Duncan 0 season.” sunday, early scoring and piv-said he was very pleased with touchdown. The next time siegfried takes 
By MANNY DE JESUS 

otal turnovers helped carroll the way his defense closed the rodriguez scored anoth-sports writer the field, it will compete in the secure a 29-7 victory over year. er touchdown to retake the playoffs against Keough, while Zahm. “our entire [defensive] line lead for st. edward’s before siegfried dominated duncan duncan’s season is officially 
The vermin (3-0-1) marched was in there on every play,” halftime. on both sides the ball, as it over. down the field in their first hodgens said. “i think we yurek opened the second won 25-0 in the season finale possession and finished with looked like a playoff team to-half with a touchdown on sunday. Contact Manny De Jesus at a 16-yard touchdown pass day. … if we do get in, i really sorin’s first drive, but the The running game for the mdejesus@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Football 
conTinued from page 16 
midshipmen, but Kelly said he is “optimistic” regarding day’s chances to play against the panthers. 
“i think we may get sheldon back,” Kelly said. “we’ll see how he progresses during the week.” 
The front seven has been stretched thin in the lineback­ing corps, as well. Junior inside linebacker Jarrett grace broke his leg against arizona state, and junior outside linebacker ben councell will miss the rest of the season after suffering what Kelly called a “significant knee injury” saturday against navy. 
fellow junior outside line­backer ishaq williams left the air force game with an acl in­jury and did not play against navy. williams, who was in an immobilizer last week, could re­turn for the byu game nov. 23, per Kelly. 
in the secondary, senior safety austin collinsworth suffered a neck strain against navy and was scheduled to undergo an mri on monday. sophomore safety elijah shumate, who missed the last three games with a hamstring injury, is now 100 percent and will be activated saturday, according to Kelly. 
The ever-growing injury list is in addition to the group of players who suffered sea­son-ending injuries either during spring or preseason practices. Junior defensive line­men chase  hounshell and Tony springmann are out for the year with shoulder and knee inju­ries, respectively, and sopho­more safety nicky baratti is also out with a shoulder injury. senior outside linebacker danny spond, who started 11 games in 2012, was forced to retire in august because of hemiplegic migraines. 
“i think this is probably close to the pinnacle,” Kelly said, when asked if he has seen a defense endure this many injuries in his coaching career. 
“They don’t give you any points for complaining about it,” Kelly continued. “if they did, i’d complain every minute. so we just take care of it internally and get the next guy ready.” 
for notre dame, the new next guys are the likes of sopho­more defensive lineman Jarron Jones, graduate student defen­sive lineman Tyler stockton, sophomore outside linebacker romeo okwara, senior defen­sive lineman Justin utupo and junior safety eilar hardy. when it comes to preparing backups throughout the season, Kelly said he focuses on three aspects. 
“The first thing you have to make sure is they don’t lose their conditioning, so when they do go in there, they’re able to handle the volume of plays,” Kelly said. 
Kelly said players who didn’t play at least 15 plays in the pre­vious game will go through con­ditioning the monday following the contest. 
“The second thing for us is making sure that those guys get an opportunity to get some reps in practice,” Kelly said. “even though it may not be as many as the first group, but they’re get­ting some reps. i think it’s ab­solutely crucial, and i’ve always done that.” 
Kelly said second-team play­ers typically receive about half as many reps as the first-teamers. 
“The third thing is when they’re not taking [reps], we’re demanding that they’re taking mental reps, and there are not a bunch of peripheral things going on. They’re focused and paying attention,” Kelly said. “i think all those things have to happen if you want to have an effective next man in.” 
on the offensive side, senior right guard christian lombard was ruled out for the season fol­lowing the usc game after un­dergoing back surgery. The guard playing opposite him, graduate student chris watt, did not play against navy with a pcl tear in his knee. Kelly said the injury will not require surgery and is a matter of watt feeling comfort­able playing through the issue. 
“i think he’s going to feel a lot better this week, be able to make some of the compensations that he’s going to have to make with that no pcl,” Kelly said. “i’m pretty confident that he’s going to be able to get back in the line­up this week.” 
if not, the irish will push for­ward with their next man in. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
conTinued from page 14 
will be very important [against michigan state].” 
currently, montague is second on the spartans (9-3-3, 2-2-1 big 
10) with 13 points, despite only playing in 13 games this fall due to injuries. 
“montague has been out in­jured, their big striker,” clark said. “if he comes back, he could be a handful for us. he’s a big, tall, athletic lad. our center backs will have to be able to handle that.” 
Though montague and the michigan state offense present a challenge for the irish on the de­fensive half, notre dame is also going up against a top-15 defense and face another set of challeng­es offensively. 
“we will play the way we nor­mally play,” clark said. “we know that they are a very good team, but we’ve got players that can open defenses up.” 
for the irish, doing so starts with finishing their chances on goal, clark said. 
“we have to make sure we fix some things,” clark said. “The most important thing we need to do is convert our opportuni­ties. i think that’s been a little bit of a challenge for us. it’s no use having opportunities if you don’t take them.” 
nonetheless, the mental­ity of the team is positive, clark said, as the team looks forward to a thrilling finish to their 2013 campaign. 
“i think [the players] are very excited that they’ve put them­selves into such a good position,” clark said. “i think they’re very aware that nothing concrete has yet been achieved, but they’re hoping that there is a lot of soc­cer ahead of them in the weeks ahead.” 
both the irish and the spartans will begin the final week of their respective regular seasons this afternoon, as the irish travel to east lansing, mich., for a 3 p.m. matchup against michigan state at demartin stadium. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
CROSS COUNTRY 
grady leads in postseason 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
There are just two more meets on the calendar for notre dame, the regional championships in two weeks and then nationals af­ter that, making these final meets the most important races of the season. 
and when there is an impor­tant race to be won, odds are senior runner martin grady is going to be right at the top. grady, an accounting major from burr ridge, illinois, consistently turns in his best performances when the stakes are highest. last year he led the team at both region­als and nationals, finishing ninth out of 201 runners at regionals and 52nd out of 245 at nationals. he also earned all-big east and all-region honors. 
The postseason success is all a matter of training, grady said. 
“i think part of it is just the way the season goes. The workouts just don’t hit me ‘til later,” grady said. “i don’t think my mindset changes. i approach all of them the same; things just start click­ing. i can tell from the workouts i’m a bit sluggish in the begin­ning, and then for championship season i’m just ready for go.” 
This postseason has proved no different for grady, as he led the team with a fifth place fin­ish, with a time of 24:13.2, in last weekend’s acc conference championships. he finished just 35 seconds behind the winner, and his performance earned him all-acc honors, the third time in his career he has been named all-conference. despite the im­pressive performance, grady was nonchalant about once again leading his team. 
“it was cool,” grady said. “i think there’s a lot of guys who did well. most races [irish graduate student Jeremy rae] might be our top guy, but he’s had a little foot thing that he’s working with. it’s nice to be up there, but i think we’ve gotten to the point where a certain guy could finish first or fifth and it wouldn’t matter be­cause we have that kind of sup­port and depth.” 
overall, grady said the season has gone well, but he feels he is now finally where he needs to be to have another successful championship run. 

“i think that first race at national catholic we just ran as a team, and it went pretty well,” grady said. “The nd invite was not my best showing, and then i actually strained my calf before wisconsin, so i knew it wasn’t go­ing to be my best, but we did all right. acc was probably good for me, and hopefully it’s the level i should be at.” 
in his four years running cross country for notre dame, grady has been to nationals as a sopho­more and junior and anticipates qualifying again this year. while he has been on good teams be­fore, grady said none compare to this year’s squad. 
“There’s a lot more talent on the team this year,” grady said. “This year we have two fifth years and two regular seniors. i think this is all of our fourth nationals so it’s a pretty senior-heavy team, which is definitely a good thing. me and [senior walter schafer] joked around how it was shock­ing we made nationals in past years because the team now is so much better.” 
for these next two races, grady is focused all on the team. 
“at regionals, i think we have a really good shot at winning it,” grady said. “different teams have different strategies, but i think we’ll race it all out. as long as you’re one of the top three teams, you automatically qualify. individually, i don’t have any­thing set in stone, although it would be nice to have three or four of us in the top 10.” 
since grady is a senior, he knows these next two meets will be the last times he ever competes for notre dame in cross country. he plans on coming back next year to get his msa in accounting and will be able to run indoor and outdoor track, but he has used up all of his cross country eligibility. 
for grady, the best way to go about that is to simply ignore it. 
“i haven’t really thought about it,” grady said. “maybe it’ll hit me in the last 400 of the last race. i think it’ll definitely push me and the rest of the seniors to push a little harder, but we pretty much approach all races with the same mindset.” 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaforTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: sean combs, 44; matthew mcconaughey, 44; ralph macchio, 52; Kathy griffin, 53. 
Happy Birthday: express your thoughts and share your ideas and plans. The sug­gestions you receive will contribute to the way you move forward, as well as to what you accomplish this year. focus on being unique and consistent, and you will get an abundance in return. exploring destinations that can inspire and motivate you will remind you of what makes you feel passionate. your numbers are 2, 9, 14, 24, 30, 36, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): do your share. if you have an idea, make it happen. expressing your desires and engaging in conversations that will help drum up whatever you need to reach your goal will also result in connecting with someone personally.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): visiting people or places that are vibrant will change the way you live your life. don’t go overboard. consider how to expand your interests and make new friends. a partnership will lead you down an unusual but fruitful path. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): confusion regarding finances will set in if you make an impulsive purchase, or if you spend too much on someone you are trying to impress. an emotional situation with someone you do business with must not be allowed to escalate.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): find alternative ways to get what you want. Taking a unique approach will point out how creative and talented you are. you’ll impress someone that has the clout to help you advance. Keep talks simple and to the point. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): expect to face roadblocks at home and in your personal life. step outside your usual environment and see what’s available. networking with people from different backgrounds will make you realize your options. make a posi­tive change personally or professionally. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): consider ways to enjoy life more. engage in playful activities. Travel to places that make you think or inspire you to go after a lifelong dream. sharing with someone special will give you the gumption to keep going until you achieve success 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): concentrate on money and how you can bring in more cash. focus on your attributes. stretching your skills in an unusual direction will pay off. don’t let negativity or pushy individuals slow you down. look, see and do.  

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): impress upon others what your plans are and how you are going to proceed. make unusual alterations at home that will make your tasks easier. believe in your ability and speed up until you reach your destination.  

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): helping others will improve your reputation, al­lowing you to make inroads personally and professionally. make sure that you follow through with your promises. Talk without action can turn a positive situation into a negative one. make a choice and stick to it. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): sign contracts or make agreements that will allow you to show your skills. money matters are favored, and dealing with institutions will lead to a better deal. focus on stabilizing your life and putting distance between you and anyone who is slowing you down 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Keep your feelings a secret. you don’t want to give anyone the upper hand by showing your vulnerability. don’t tell anyone about the changes you make and you will avoid interference. helping someone you like will improve your relationship 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): head in a positive direction and express your plans. you will attract all sorts of interest and can make leaps and bounds with a project you’ve wanted to pursue. contracts and financial improvements can be expected. 

Birthday Baby: you are original, adaptable and dedicated. you are proactive and passionate. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 
Bringing out the bench 

Multiple injuries on the defensive squad will test Kelly’s “next-man-in” philosophy 

By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
since arriving in south bend, irish coach brian Kelly has preached a “next-man-in” philosophy. 
That attitude, however, is be­ing tested with no. 23 notre dame’s recent rash of injuries that has ravaged the squad, es­pecially the defense. 
“we are running out of next men,” Kelly said sunday. “we’re at that point where from a defen­sive standpoint, and particularly the defensive line, we’re left with very few options.” 
The defensive line will be without senior Kona schwenke on saturday against pittsburgh. schwenke, who is dealing with a high-ankle sprain, started against navy and air force in place of fellow senior louis nix, who is battling his own ailments. Knee tendonitis and a small me­niscus tear have restricted nix, but after an mri on sunday, the school announced the nose guard would practice this week. 
sophomore defensive end sheldon day reinjured his own high-ankle sprain against the 
see fooTball PAGE 14 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL | breen phillips 19, walsh 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish take on rival Michigan State 
babes snatch first season win 
Pyros shut out Badin, head to playoffs 
By ALEXANDRA LANE 
sports writer 
breen phillips topped walsh in a close 19-14 game sunday to record its first win of the season. 
walsh was leading after a close first half, marked by great defense by both breen phillips (1-5) and the wild women (1-5). however, the babes, led by freshman quar­terback emily affinito, fought back to take the lead after halftime. 
on the babes’ first possession of the second half, affinito ran 40 yards for a touchdown. The next time her team had possession, affinito completed a 10-yard touch­down pass to senior running back molly Toner. 
“emily was the star of the game for us,” senior cap­tain and linebacker monica mcnerney said. “she has re­ally turned into a good quar­terback this season, and she’s only a freshman, so it’s only going to get better.” 
mcnerney said her team was excited to get its first win. 
“This was our best game of the season,” she said. “everything came together, and we ended the season strong.” 
walsh’s junior receiver and captain maggie fisher said she and her team were hop­ing for a better conclusion to their season. 
“we should have won this game,” fisher said. “we’re not happy with the offici­ating, and we were miss­ing some key players.” 
see w inTerhall PAGE 12 
MEN’S INTERHALL | Keenan 28, sTanford 0 
Knights win rivalry matchup 
Keough snatches victory over O’Neill with defensive score 


By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
defending champion Keenan capped off its unde­feated regular season and will roll into the playoffs af­ter dominating stanford on sunday, 28-0. 
Keenan (4-0) controlled the game on both sides of the ball, forcing three turnovers and finding the end zone four times. 
sophomore quarterback pat corry led the Knights with three touchdown passes and another one on the ground. senior receiver and line­backer John garry turned in a stellar effort as well, with two touchdown receptions and an interception. 
Keenan senior captain and receiver Jeremy riche said he thought the Knights’ ef­fort was solid throughout the game. 
“our guys started off hot … and played consistent throughout,” riche said. “we came up big when we really needed it, especially the de­fense with the turnovers, and it was overall a great team win. The offense started to click and the defense has been solid all year … so head­ing into the playoffs, after this game, i feel really good.” 
The griffins (0-4) saw their season come to a close, but strong performances from ju­nior tight end and linebacker Kevin connor and sopho­more running back and safety michael grasso were bright spots. 
senior captain and line­man ruben carrion said he was proud of his team’s performance. 
“it was a hard-fought game,” carrion said. “The score doesn’t really show the heart my team had. … we experienced success, and just little mistakes slowed us 
see m inTerhall PAGE 13 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
after claiming a 3-1 victory over no. 12 wake forest on saturday, the no. 2 irish now sit tied atop the acc standings with no. 8 maryland. yet, before the final acc standings can be established, the irish (9-1-5, 6-1-3 acc) must kick off the last week of their sea­son in a non-conference game against another top-25 team, no. 22 michigan state. 
“[michigan state is] a very good team with some very good play­ers,” irish coach bobby clark said. “i think we really have to focus and work hard on set pieces. any fouls in [our] half become a set piece. They put them in the box and challenge opponents.” 
accordingly, the irish will have to defend an athletic michigan state attack, clark said, one that plays well in the air and takes ad­vantage of its many offensive sets. 
“[The spartans] have some strong center backs that are very good in the air,” clark said. “[michigan state junior forward adam] montague, in particular, is strong in the air. you obviously don’t want to give them set pieces, but if you do, you’ve got to de­fend them. defending set pieces 
see m soccer PAGE 14 




