
Notre Dame 28, temPLe 6 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | NDsmcobserver.com 
Strong out of the gate 
Rees connects with Daniels twice in opening minutes as Irish roll past Temple in opener 
ND needs to convert yards into points 


Matthew DeFranks 
assistant managing editor 
something did not add up. 
No. 14 Notre Dame’s of­fense rolled up 543 yards of offense and only put up four touchdowns in a 28-6 win over temple on saturday. 
to put that in perspective, 543 yards per game would have been good for the fifth-best offense in 2012 (one spot ahead of oregon, by the way). but how about 28 points?  that would have put the Irish at 70th in the nation in scoring offense a sea­son ago, behind the likes of troy and Western Kentucky. 
senior quarterback tommy rees and the Irish offense had no problem moving the ball, clearly. Notre Dame gained at least 40 yards and dipped into temple territory on every drive until the fourth quarter. but four of those drives ended with­out points. 
special teams is partly to blame for that, though, as grad­uate student Nick tausch and junior Kyle brindza both missed makeable field goals, but the Irish offense has to take some of the blame. on both drives that ended in punts in the first half, the Irish threw the ball three times in a row right before they were forced to punt. 
Notre Dame was not able to finish drives the way they should have against an inferior opponent. the score should not have been close, and the Irish should have at least broken the 30-point mark after explod­ing for more than 500 yards on offense. 
rees had a career day with 346 passing yards. senior re­ceiver tJ Jones had a career day with 138 receiving yards. Junior receiver Davaris Daniels scored his first two career touchdowns. Junior running back amir carlisle impressed in his debut, averaging just fewer than 10 yards per carry. 
but the result was just a me­diocre one against a team from a conference with one ranked team. When the Irish get into the meat of their schedule against oklahoma, Usc and 

see strUGGLes PAGE 2 


By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports Writer 

No. 14 Notre Dame set a blis­tering tempo with its opening drive and drove the pace of the game all the way to a 28-6 victory over temple in the season open­er on saturday at Notre Dame stadium. 
the Irish (1-0) finished their opening touchdown drive in a breezy 1:26 and followed with a second brisk scoring sequence, completed in 1:01. 
Irish coach brian Kelly praised senior quarterback tommy rees’ execution of the efficient drives. 
“obviously a lot of the ques­tions coming in is ‘could we push the ball down the field?’” Kelly said. “I think we answered a lot of those questions right away with [rees’] ability to push the ball down the field. I thought his patience was better, and it will continue to get better. so I was pleased with his performance, and he knows he can play better.” 
rees acknowledged he has work to do, despite his success against the owls (0-1). before ex­iting in the fourth quarter for fel­low senior quarterback andrew Hendrix, rees was 16-for-23 with 346 passing yards and three touchdowns. It was rees’ third career game with at least 300 passing yards, but 346 set a new career-high. 
“We had an opportunity to make some big plays which we did and we’re happy with the performance,” rees said. “there is still a lot of work to go, and we know that and we’re ready to move forward.” 
several Notre Dame players set personal records or achieved career firsts. 





PLAYER OF THE GAME 
TOMMY REES 
NOTRE DAME QUARTERBACK 
rees threw for a career-high 346 yards to go with three passing touchdowns. the signal-caller did not commit any turnovers and made strong reads. Junior running back amir carlisle credited rees with audibiling on the first play from scrim­mage, when carlisle carried 45 yards into temple territory. 
on the first play from scrim­mage and with his first carry for Notre Dame, junior running back amir carlisle scampered 45 yards down the left sideline into temple territory. two plays later, junior receiver Davaris Daniels hauled in his first career touch­down reception on a 32-yard strike from rees less than 90 sec­onds into the game. 
Daniels quickly followed his first career touchdown with his second. rees found Daniels a second time, again for 32 yards. Daniels ran a post-corner route and snagged the pass despite coverage from temple junior cornerback anthony robey. the scores put Notre Dame up 14-0 just 4:41 into the first quarter. 
rees said the touchdown was a result of good communication and a good read. 
“[Daniels] did a great job of understanding where the cor­ner was playing him,” rees said. “He cut on a high angle. I knew I saw that pre snap that we had a pretty good shot out there with the leverage the corner was playing. and Davaris is a great route-runner.” 
a 51-yard catch-and-run by se­nior receiver tJ Jones on the first play of the drive set up the scor­ing opportunity. the reception was the second longest in Jones’ career. 
see vIctorY PAGE 3 

Career days from Rees, Jones power balanced offense 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports Writer 
For many Irish fans, it might be difficult to decide on a fa­vorite moment in No. 14 Notre Dame’s 28-6 season-opening win over temple on saturday. 
there was junior running back amir carlisle’s “Welcome to Notre Dame” moment, when he broke free for a 45­yard gain in the first play of the game, which was also his first play as a member of the Irish. there were also the two 32-yard touchdown pass­es from senior quarterback tommy rees to junior receiver Davaris Daniels and junior tight end troy Niklas’ 66-yard run-after-the-catch touch­down before the half, to name a few. 
but Daniels and Niklas were far from the only two Irish players to deliver significant contributions on a day high­lighted by offensive variety. the Irish offense had six plays that gained over 30 yards, and five of those came from differ­ent receivers or rushers. 
“I thought you saw what I was hoping for,” Irish coach brian Kelly said after the game. “You had Daniels catch a touchdown; you had [se­nior receiver] tJ Jones and obviously [sophomore re­ceiver] chris brown. You had troy Niklas and the running backs catch footballs. You had [freshman running back] tarean Folston catching a nice ball coming out of the backfield. I think you’re going to see great distribution of the football across the board, and it’s going to be somebody new each week. 
“tJ Jones is going to be in the mix every single week, be­cause he’s one of the best wide receivers in the country. but you’re going to see a lot of guys contribute offensively. I think it’s for the better, I really do. I think it gives us great balance across the board.” 
Jones said the offensive output on display offered a glimpse of what could turn out to be a highly efficient offense. 
see oFFeNse PAGE 2 tHe observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | NDsmcobserver.com 






REPORT CARD 









QUARTERBACKS 
tommy rees silenced critics of his ability to push the ball down the field by connecting on six passes of more than 25 yards. rees began with two perfect scoring drives, and avoided any big mistakes while passing for a career-high 346 yards. 

RUNNING BACKS 
Junior amir carlisle got the Irish off to a strong start by bouncing outside for 45 yards. Juniors George atkinson and cam mcDaniel chipped in, as well, as the Irish accu­mulated 188 yards on the ground. Freshmen Greg bryant and tarean Folston looked good in limited action. 

RECEIVERS 
senior tJ Jones and junior Davaris Daniels led the receiv­ing corps in an impressive performance. the tri-captain Jones shined brightest by compiling a career-high 138 yards, but Daniels and junior tight end troy Niklas com­bined for an impressive three scores. 

OFFENSIVE LINE 
the offensive line protected the quarterback reasonably well and the holes were there for the Irish backs to exploit. It was a good start for a unit with new faces in the mix, but the owls did get to rees  once in the first quarter. 

DEFENSIVE LINE 
the Irish only brought down reilly once, as the owls’ quarterback repeatedly evaded the pass rush came up with 65 yards on the ground. For a unit as hyped as this one has been, it was a below-par performance. 

LINEBACKERS 
senior outside linebacker Prince shembo seemed to beat his man at will, but did not turn the constant pressure into a sack. Graduate student inside linebacker Dan Fox racked up a career-high 10 tackles. 

DEFENSIVE BACKS 
the secondary was content to give up 228 yards through the air, as the unit did a good job keeping everything in front of it. the back end did not give up any big plays, but they did not make any, either. 

SPECIAL TEAMS 
both graduate student Nick tausch and junior Kyle brindza missed very makeable field goals, and brindza also booted two punts well into the endzone. Jones looked comfortable in his debut at punt-return, but kickoff cov­erage surrendered almost 30 return yards per return. 

COACHING 
It was a good debut by the Irish, mostly because they got the win. the coaching staff got a solid performance out of rees and prepared a number of freshmen to contribute. 

OVERALL GPA: 3.04 
Notre Dame secured itself a victory against an inferior team, but it was far from a perfect performance as both teams left points on the board. the Irish showed they have the talent to move the ball, but both sides of the ball showed a lack of consistency, albeit in a winning performance that bordered on dominance. 


PLAY OF THE GAME 
NIKLAS SCORES A 66-YARD TOUCHDOWN AT THE END OF THE HALF 
after the owls punched home a touchdown with 1:01 remaining in the first half to cut the Notre Dame lead to 14-6, Niklas sprinted up the seam, caught the pass from rees and shook off multiple tack­lers en route to the 66-yard score that recemented the Irish lead. 

Offense 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
“today we showed a little bit of our ability to move the ball down field in the way that we want to,” Jones said. “there are definitely some things we need to work on, but I think we got a glimpse of where our offense can go today.” 
rees, who completed 16 of 23 pass attempts and threw three touchdowns with no interceptions, said he wasn’t surprised by how well the of­fense gelled during the game. 
“I had a lot of confidence in those guys.  I’m with them every day, so I know the abil­ity that they have,” rees said. “I knew they had the ability to make plays for us, and I’m happy they did it.” 
even in a game filled with highlight-worthy plays from a number of different sourc­es, experienced seniors rees and Jones stood out and set the tone for the offensive unit. Jones led the team with career-high 138 receiving yards despite not scoring a touchdown. Jones also made his debut as a punt-returner, gaining 23 yards on three returns. 
“He made one bad decision where he did not field the punt, and I thought he made a great play late in the game where he fielded it in traffic, which we’ve struggled with over the last few years,” Kelly said. “I think he’s going to be really good at it as he con­tinues to get more live play­ing time at that position. I’m pretty excited about watch­ing him back there.” 
rees also set a new per­sonal record by throwing for 346 yards. It was also the first time rees has thrown over 300 yards in a winning effort (his two previous 300­yard games came in losses to tulsa in 2010 and michigan in 2011.) communicating with his targets was the key to rees’ strong performance, Jones said. 
“any time there were checks, tommy relayed them to the receivers and we re­layed them to each other in case somebody didn’t see it,” he said. “When there was a bad play, he put us in a good play. and I think our commu­nication was great.” 
that rees and Jones peaked in the same game is a result of both experience and luck, Jones said. 
“tommy and I lived togeth­er for two a half years,” Jones said. “We came in together, so we have a connection there. You have time to build on that since we enrolled. and defi­nitely today the play calling came my way.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


Struggles 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
stanford, this type of perfor­mance will not fly. 
the drives stalled a bit in the second quarter when the Irish could have pulled away. and the drives never really started in the fourth quarter when the Irish needed to put the game away (Notre Dame something closer to filet mi­gnon to come out of ann arbor with a victory. 
all he needs is a little firepower. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily of The Observer. 
started the quarter with two three-and-outs). 
the offense was not bad, it just could have been so much better. 
It was kind of like watching Wolfgang Puck cook hot dogs 
— yeah, it was probably deli­cious, but it could have been so much more. this saturday against rival michigan, the Irish will need rees to cook up 


NDsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | tHe observer 


JOHN NING | The Observer 

Irish senior quarterback Tommy Rees lofts a pass downfield during Notre Dame’s 28-6 win over Temple on Saturday. Rees threw for three touchdowns and a career-high 346 yards. 

Victory 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
by the end of the game, Jones had hit another milestone. the roswell, Ga., native logged his first 100-yard receiving game and set a career-high with 138 receiv­ing yards. 
Kelly attributed Jones’ banner day to his ability to make some­thing happen after the catch. 
“I thought it was dynamic,” Kelly said. “Dynamic is a word that I would use as a receiver when we’re talking about after the catch. so he caught the foot­ball, and then he was dynamic after the catch. and that’s what we were looking for from him.” 
Jones said he didn’t know ex­actly how close he was to topping his personal best until the statis­tic appeared on the scoreboard. 
“I actually thought I was still under until they showed it on … the scoreboard thing,” Jones said. “they showed I had 138. I didn’t know how far I was under. I didn’t know how far any of my plays were. I just knew they were long.” 
temple threatened for the first time at the end of the first quar­ter. the owls took over at their 20-yard line with 4:06 remaining in the period after a Notre Dame punt. 
Junior quarterback connor reilly drove temple to the Notre Dame 30-yard line before firing a pass that skipped just beyond the outstretched hands of diving sophomore tight end romond Deloatch. two plays later fresh­man kicker Jim cooper missed a 32-yard field goal try to end the threat and the quarter. 
the owls set up another scor­ing opportunity on their first possession of the second quarter, but cooper’s 43-yard field goal at­tempt sailed wide right. 
temple punched across its only score when junior halfback Kenny Harper plunged through a small lane for a 1-yard score with 1:01 left in the first half. Irish sophomore defensive lineman Jarron Jones blocked the extra point attempt, however, to keep the score at 14-6. 
Notre Dame’s defense kept the owls’ offense off-balance by forcing hurried throws from reilly. Junior defensive lineman stephon tuitt and senior outside linebacker Prince shembo sup­plied much of the pressure on reilly with several hurries. In the secondary, meanwhile, senior safety austin collinsworth and junior safety matthias Farley pre­vented big plays downfield. 
“What I like was the safety communication was outstand­ing.  I thought collinsworth did a very nice job of working with matthias Farley,” Kelly said. “I think that there’s a seamless, natural transition on that defen­sive side of the ball.” 
other than a first-quarter sack by sophomore nose tackle matt Ioannidis, rees enjoyed reliable protection. 
the senior quarterback took advantage on a 66-yard touch­down pass up the seam to ju­nior tight end troy Niklas. the single-play drive took 18 seconds and provided the Irish with a 21-6 halftime lead. the recep­tion more than doubled Niklas’ previous career long of 30 yards, set against Purdue in 2012, and was Niklas’ second career touchdown. 

“[Niklas] was wide open down the middle of the field, and tommy did a good job of reading the coverage,” Kelly said. “they were in their third and long cov­erage, and he outran the middle linebacker down the middle of the field.” 
temple drove deep into Notre Dame territory to start the sec­ond half, but the Irish halted the owls on the Notre Dame six-yard line. Under pressure from shembo on fourth down, reilly threw an incomplete pass in­tended for senior tight end chris coyer. 
the Irish followed up the defensive stop with a 94-yard touchdown drive. Junior run­ning backs George atkinson, amir carlisle and cam mcDaniel shared the action and combined for 38 yards, including a 16-yard run from mcDaniel. 
atkinson pushed low through traffic for a 2-yard score that set­tled the final result of 28-6. 
the win marked Kelly’s 200th as a head coach. 
“I haven’t really taken the time to think about it, other than a lot of the coaches that are with me today have been part of a lot of those wins,” Kelly said. “and that’s really, for me, pretty special.” 
the Irish travel to ann arbor, mich., on saturday to square off with the No. 17 Wolverines. Kickoff is set for 8 p.m. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


Niklas hauls in 66-yard tD 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports Writer 
after the game, senior quar­terback tommy rees said he wasn’t sure if junior tight end troy Niklas had made the catch that eventually resulted in a 66-yard touchdown in the final minute of the first half. but he said he felt pretty good about it. 
“He’s huge, so that helps,” rees said when asked about how good of a target Niklas is. “I couldn’t see, to be honest.  but once I saw big troy running down, he’s kind of hard to bring down.” 
the touchdown was the sec­ond of Niklas’ career as well as the longest reception of his career. the score put the Irish ahead, 21-6, going into halftime. 
Tuitt notches sack 
Junior defensive end stephon tuitt entered the 2013 cam­paign 19 pounds heavier than he was last year after offsea­son surgery to repair a hernia. tuitt still managed to lead the Irish defensive line in pressur­ing temple junior quarterback connor reilly throughout the game, tuitt had two solo tackles and assisted on another. 

He also sacked reilly for a 4-yard loss in the second quar­ter with the owls knocking on the door of the redzone. It was tuitt’s 15th career sack, which puts him 10th on the list of Notre Dame players since the stat was first recorded in 1982. tuitt also opened last year by getting to the quarterback, recording two sacks in Notre Dame’s 50-10 vic­tory over Navy. 

Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 




SCORING SUMMARY 





1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
0  6  0  0  6  
14  7  7  0  28  

NOTRE DAME 7, TEMPLE 0 
Davaris Daniels 32-yard pass from rees (tausch kick) 
13:34 remaining 
Drive: Three plays, 77 yards, 1:26 elapsed 

NOTRE DAME 14, TEMPLE 0 
Davaris Daniels 32-yard pass from rees (tausch kick) 
10:19 remaining 
Drive: Three plays, 87 yards, 1:01 elapsed 

NOTRE DAME 14, TEMPLE 6 
Kenny Harper 1-yard run (cooper kick blocked) 
1:01 remaining 
Drive: Nine plays, 78 yards, 2:18 elapsed 

NOTRE DAME 21, TEMPLE 6 
troy Niklas 66-yard pass from rees (tausch kick) 
0:43remaining 
Drive: One play, 66 yards, 0:18 elapsed 

NOTRE DAME 28, TEMPLE 6 
George atkinson 2-yard run (tausch kick) 
5:37remaining 
Drive: Seven plays, 94 yards, 3:36 elapsed 
NO SCORING 


STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 
134 
188 

PASSING YARDS 
228 
Time of Possession  Time of Possession  
31:53  28:07  
PASSING  
Rees  16-23-346  Reilly  23-46-228  
Hendrix  1-4-9  
RUSHING  
Carlisle  7-68  Reilly  12-65  
McDaniel  12-65  Williams  7-33  
Atkinson  8-34  Gilmore  3-17  
Folston  5-14  Coyer  1-14  
Bryant  2-12  Harper  6-5  
RECEIVING  
Jones  6-138  Alderman  4-65  
Daniels  3-69  Coyer  4-39  
Niklas  1-66  Christopher  3-25  
Brown  3-57  Harper  2-23  
Atkinson  1-11  Deloatch  1-20  
Folston  1-9  Fitzpatrick  2-16  
Carlisle  2-5  Three players  2-12  
TACKLES  
Fox  10  Matakevich  11  
Calabrese  9  Smith  8  
Grace  7  Smith  7  
Jackson  4  Robey  5  
Shembo  4  Caponegro  5  
Farley  3  Marshall  5  
Schmidt  3  Ioannidis  3  

KICKOFF RETURNS  
Atkinson  2-40  Fitzpatrick  3-88  
SACKS  
Tuitt  1  Ioannidis  1  


tHe observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | NDsmcobserver.com 


JOHN NING | The Observer 
Senior receiver and tri-captain TJ Jones tries to break away from a pair of Temple defenders during Saturday’s season-opening 28-6 win over the Owls. Jones logged a career-high 138 yards receiving on six receptions. He also recorded 23 punt-return yards. 
Notre Dame began the 2013 campaign on a good note, racking up 
543 yards in a 28-6 victory over Temple. Senior quarterback Tommy Rees tossed three touchdowns and threw for a career-high 346 yards, 



IMPRESSIVE ON 
while  junior Amir Carlisle (7 rushes for  68 yards) led Notre Dame’s five running backs to 193 yards on the ground. Irish coach Brian 


OPENING DAY 

Kelly became the second-youngest coach to  compile 200 wins. 







