The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 42 | FRIDay, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Keoughs donate $30 million for new building 
Jenkins Hall to house Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies and Liu Institute for Asia and Asian Studies 
for irish studies and the liu name this magnificent ad-construction is expected to right now we’re spread out 
By PAUL KIM 

news writer institute for asia and asian dition to our campus in my be completed by the 2017-18 in different parts of the cam-
studies. The hall will also honor and grateful beyond academic year. pus,” carozza said. 
donald and marilyn provide additional spaces for words for their gift. ... This in addition to the Keoughs’ There has been a proposal Keough recently donated $30 the helen Kellogg institute extraordinary gift will in-donation, a $5 million contri-to found a school for interna­million to underwrite the for international studies spire us to become a more bution to finance construc-tional affairs, acting director construction costs for a new and the Kroc institute for global university, bringing tion has been made by the of the liu institute nelson building that will house four international peace studies, the world to notre dame and Kellogg and Kroc institutes, mark said. he said this school international studies insti-the release stated. notre dame to the world.” paolo carozza, director of the could also use the new space tutes, the university stated in “This wonderful gift is the Jenkins hall will be con-Kellogg institute, said. in Jenkins hall and be near a press release oct. 18. most recent instance of don structed adjacent to nanovic “by being in a new space international institutes. 
The building will be named and mickie Keough’s tre-hall, which is also to be built, that unites other institutes, “it just makes sense for in-Jenkins hall in honor of mendous generosity to notre the release stated. Together we’re really hoping that it’s ternational institutes and university president Fr. John dame,” Jenkins said in the the halls will occupy 170,000 going to generate all sorts of people in that school [for Jenkins. it will house the press release. “i am truly square feet. according to new synergies and opportu­Keough-naughton institute humbled by their request to the release, the two-year nities to collaborate because see donaTion PaGE 6 


rep. Kelly credits nd for sparking passion for service 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
assistant managing editor 
Editor’s Note: This is the sixth sto­ry in a series featuring Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s graduates serving as members of Congress. This series, titled “Trading Golden Dome for Capitol Dome,” will run on Fridays. 
although lawmakers allowed the federal government to re­open, debate continues on health care and on the meaning of the implementation of the patient protection and affordable care act. 
see Kelly PaGE 7 




ND, SMC groups celebrate Día de los Muertos 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
groups at notre dame and saint mary’s are working hard to make sure that this year, el día de los muertos, a traditional mexican holiday of remem­brance for the dead, is a day to remember in every sense. 
Fr. Joe corpora, associ­ate director of latino student ministry, said el día de los muertos, or the day of the dead, is a traditional mexican holiday recognized from oct. 
31 through nov. 2. he said the holiday is celebrated by erecting altars and decorating them with traditional items, as well as with mementos and pictures of the deceased relatives one wishes to remember. 
“it is believed that the spirits of the dead visit their families on oct. 31 and leave on nov. 1,” corpora said. “Families make altars and place ofrendas, or offerings, of food, such as pan de muerto [sweet rolls], in the 
see holiday PaGE 5 



Stadium grounds crew ‘take care of God’s field’ 
By TORI ROECK 
associate news editor 
eight years ago, the notre dame grounds crew saved pac washington’s life. 
“i was a local street punk, doing stuff i wasn’t sup­posed to,” washington said. “and i got into a bad shoot­ing, took my teeth out. almost didn’t make it. and T [robert Thomas], which is our other boss, he seen me on the corner right after it happened, and he said, ‘man, what do i gotta do to get you off these streets?’ i said, ‘i need a job, T.’ i’ve been here ever since. 

“i left a life alone. now i take care of god’s field.” 

Taking care of ‘God’s field’ 
dan brazo, notre dame stadium facility manager, said the grounds crew han­dles maintenance on all the university’s outdoor athletic fields for all sports except bas­ketball, volleyball and hockey. 
“we have a responsibility for all the athletic outdoor fields and facilities, so it’s not just football ... basically, making sure that the fields and facili­ties are in the best shape pos­sible, from a safety standpoint for the student athletes and from an aesthetic standpoint for the fans,” brazo said. 
weeks before home football games are especially busy for the grounds crew, whose 
see grounds PaGE 6 








ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                       peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vencillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite Halloween movie? 

Maggie Fisher 
junior 
walsh hall 
“The strangers.” 

Pauline Hickey 
sophomore 
pasquerilla west hall 
“halloweentown and hocus pocus.” 

Maggie Moran 
freshman 
Farley hall 
“halloweentown.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Martin Chapman 
sophomore 
Zahm house 

“The haunted mansion.” 

Chris Hebig 
junior 
o’neill hall 

“sean of the dead.” 

Tim Klinker 
junior 
dillon hall 
“aliens.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Kaitlyn rabach isaac lorton Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

catherine owers mary green charlie ducey mike ginocchio 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
emily hoffmann Kevin noonan 

Photo Viewpoint 

Developing Your Saturday Scholars Notre Dame Volleyball Lecture: “Havanna Common Good 
Karla moreno dan sehlhorst 
Lifelong Brand Series Joyce Center 1900” Initiative Vander Vennett Theatre Snite Museum of Art 2 p.m.- 4 p.m. 104 Bond Hall Geddes Hall 
1:30p.m.-3 p.m. 12 p.m.-1 p.m. The Irish take on 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 


Corrections 

Olympian Stephanie Discussion of the Pittsburgh in the On the city and its Information session 
The observer regards itself as Hightower speaks. chapels of Notre Dame. Purcell Pavilion. architects. for Haiti immersion. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Glee Club Fall Concert Black Image Rejoice! Mass Grief Group Four:7 Catholic 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Center Washington Hall Coleman-Morse Center Pasquerilla West Hall Fellowship 
however, recognize that we will make 
8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 8 p.m.- 9:30 p.m. 8 p.m.-9 p.m. 9 p.m.-10 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Family-friendly show. Annual talent show. Mass and choir Confidential support 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
practice. from Campus Ministry. Student-led worship. 
we can correct our error. 





CEO of nonprofit wins award for advocacy 

she grew up. she also holds an honorary degree from the university. 
To begin her remarks, novogratz appealed to the sense of kinship at the heart of acumen’s mission. 
“we all do this work in dif­ferent ways, and we do this work together and stand on top of each other’s shoulders,” she said. acumen attempts to unify aspects of philanthropy with a sound understanding of investing to fund aspiring entrepreneurs primarily in east africa and south asia, novogratz said. 
“The goal is to take the hu­manitarian impulse of phi­lanthropy with the efficiency of the market while recog­nizing the limitations of the market as well,” she said. novogratz said this approach enables her to taks on is­sues of poverty and the great “un-freedoms” of economic inequality in a new and cou­rageous way. building and renewing conventional insti­tutions lies at the core of this pursuit, and novogratz laud­ed pope Francis for his own efforts to renew one of the world’s oldest institutions: the catholic church. 
since the organization’s founding in 2001, novogratz said it has made immense strides, providing funding to projects that serve more than 100 million people around theworld. These projects aim to give the poor time to make mistakes and to help them satisfy basic needs in their communities, she said 
novogratz gave two exam­ples of how poor entrepre­neurs have transformed their communities with funds from acumen. 
bruce robertson, an entre­preneur originally from south africa, took funds to gulu in northern uganda, a place typ­ified by refugees and the af­termath of genocide. he gave capital to the newly returned inhabitants, trusting some who had virtually no farming experience. 
“Today, there are 50,000 farmers as part of an all­uganda company in gulu,” novogratz said.  “This is an image of resurrection.” 
Jivad, a pakistani­american, used acumen funds to establish low-income housing outside the pakistani city of lahore, novogratz said. Jivad provided the poor with sustainable shelter without bribing corrupt officials. 

“Jivad did what was right, not what was easy,” novogratz said. “many people go into this thinking they’re building bricks and mortar, but Javid built a community. There was one mosque in the whole settlement, and Javid worked with the elders so that imams from various islamic sects could share.” 
The innovation of empow­ered citizens, along with the charity of philanthropists and ordinary kind-hearted 
“She displays a profound respect for the dignity for those whom she serves, knowing that the real gifts in life are not material, but empowering acts of love that form community.” 
Fr. John Jenkins 
University president 

individuals, maks these proj­ects possible, novogratz said. 
novogratz provided a final example of her personal en­counter with the poor to show how various kinds of capital can change the world. 
“i was visiting a site with an australian entrepreneur who sells solar energy. i asked a woman who had bought his product if she thought it needed any improvements. Though she said she loved the product, she went on to list four ideas for improvement,” novogratz said.  “seeing this little woman talking to this big man with such confidence about how he could improve his product reminded me of why i founded acumen — to empower the poor to find their own solution.” 
in the end, novogratz said we need both the soft and the hard — the head and the heart 
— to fight the status quo, the bureaucracy, corruption and complacency. 
“we need charity and phi­lanthropy, but it can create dependency and arrogance, and the systems that will bet­ter the world have human dig­nity at heart,” she said. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 

By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
Jacqueline novogratz, ceo of the nonprofit global ven­ture fund acumen, received the 2013 notre dame award for international human development and solidarity for her advocacy for the re­vitalization of impoverished communities. 
university president Fr. John Jenkins presented novogratz with the award on behalf of the Ford Family program in human development studies and solidarity in a ceremony Thursday. The event in the hesburgh center auditorium was part of the notre dame Forum on women in leadership.
 Jenkins said novogratz stands as an exemplary per­son in the area of women in leadership because of her dedication to human dignity. 


“There are two dangers when seeking to help people in need. one is condescen­sion; the other is imposing so­lutions on the poor,” Jenkins said. “novogratz is particu­larly worthy of celebration for avoiding those dangers.” 
“she displays a profound re­spect for the dignity for those whom she serves, knowing that the real gifts in life are not material, but empow­ering acts of love that form community.” 
Fr. robert dowd, director of the Ford Family program, echoed Jenkins’s remarks, emphasizing the power of hu­man dignity that drives the mission of the program. 
“we are thankful to Jacqueline novogratz for ad­vancing the mission of the Ford Family program, which seeks to help people to lift themselves out of poverty and produce sustainable out­comes,” dowd said. novogratz spoke about the mission of acumen, the nonprofit orga­nization she founded in 2001 after working in the bank­ing world of new york city. novogratz is the daughter of catholic immigrants from austria, a fact which made notre dame stand as a myth­ic name in her family while 

The observer | FRIDay, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 





SMC selling team competes at Indiana University 

By ALEX WINEGAR 
new writer 
For the third straight year, saint mary’s participated in the national Team selling competition (nTsc) at indiana university on oct. 10. in a press release, rosann spiro, executive director for the center for global sales leadership, said the com­petition simulates real-world business scenarios. 
“our goal … is to give sales students the opportunity to take classroom knowledge and expe­rience and apply those skills in a selling situation that is realistic and relevant in today’s market,” spiro said. 
coach of nTsc and market­ing professor robert williams said the college’s eight-person team consisted of returning stu­dents from last year’s group and students in various marketing classes. 
The team was given a case study two weeks before the com­petition and had to identify the problem and create an innova­tive solution, returning member 
and junior  aneth  batamuliza  
said.  
Junior  maddie  maidment,  

another team member, said the case study presented the team with a puzzlm. 
“we also had to identify where the missing information within the case is so we could ask ap­propriate questions in [the]tfirst session,” maidment said. 
The case study for this year’s competition was to solve a fic­tional convenience store chain’s struggling economic situation. The 20-store chain was trying to decide whether to take on a new product line of specialty beers, williams said. 
“The ‘pitch’ was to convince the convenience store owners of the mutual benefits of taking on this new supplier,” williams said. “of course, there was more drama and details involved!” 
The saint mary’s team’s solution was not only to sell the premium craft brewhat the con­venience store, but to also sell the store’s fresh-baked pizza at the brewery, williams said. 
“both partners differentiated themselves and gained a dis­tinct competitive advantage in the marketplace: a win-win,” williams said. 
The competition is broken up into two sessions. The first is a morning meeting to uncover new facts. The second takes place during the afternoon and is the official presentation with the team’s sales pitch to the judges, maidment said. 
williams said mosy of the judges were employees of the competition’s sponsors, altria group, inc. and The 3m compand. 
“one dramatic aspect is the fact that the first stage of the competition involves a 15-min­ute ‘meeting’ with the client, which enables the team to confirm analysis, uncover any new fact, and gain agreement,” williams said. “Then the team has only four hours to update their powerpoint, practice their updated presentation, then present for 20 minutes.” 
lwilliams said he is proud of the team’s accomplishments at this year’s competition. 
“while we were honored to have [senior Kirsten bonnesen] rselected as “rookie of the year” [out of 84 participants] for her sales presentation part, it was a full team effort,” williams said. 
batamuliza said she enjoyed working with the college’s team. 
“The girls on the team were all intelligent and wonderful saint mary’s women who share dif­ferent passions and interests,” batamuliza said. “and being surrounded by all that positive, creative, and innovative minds in such a setting was such an honor.” 


Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 

ceo shares international business experience 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
news writer 

ceo of acumen Fund Jacqueline novogratz 
gave  a  lecture  Thursday  
titled  “patient  capital  
and  human-centered  

development in an interconnected world” as part of the burges lecture series on business ethics. 
The lecture in the Jordan auditorium of the mendoza college of business was conducted in a question­and-answer format, witr professor of business patrick mu rphy,i nter viewing novogratz onstage and thenpallowing students in the audience to ask questione. 
novogratz shared her first business experienc­es as a banker in south america and a microfi­nance banker in rwanda. after the rwandan geno­cide, novogratz recognized that many who would re­member rwanda before the genocide were gone. This realization led her to write her book “The blue sweater: bridging the gap between the rich and the poor in an interconnected world,, whichsrecounts her experi­ences in rwanda.. 
after her work in rwanda, novogratz said she wanted to do more to change the world. This desire caused her to develoe acumen Fund, a no-profit venture capitalist firm that serves developing countries. 
“you can have all these plans in your head, but there will be times in life when your body says ‘go,’ and you need to go,” novogratz said. These opportunities won’t always happen again.” 
acumen has invested money in developing re­gions such as mumbai, pakistan and many coun­tries in africa, and its in­vestments have impacted more than 100 million peo­ple, novogratz said.eshee­credited acumen’s success to itr commitment to its clients. 
“being able to put yourself in someone else’s shoes and find solutions from their perspective is why acumen is successful,” novogratz said. 
while sometimes it is difficult to make the right choice and not the easy choice, novogratz said it is worthwhile to try to do what is right. 
“one immutable value one should have is integrity, 
paid adverTisemenT 
but also generosity and ac­countability,” she said. 
encountering corruption­nin the business world is not uncommon, novogratz said.. 
“corruption is endemic in our times,” she said. “it is corrosive, exhausting, and those who are most hurt by 

“One immutable value one should have is integrity, but also generosity and accountability.” 
Jacqueline Novogratz 
CEO 
Acumen Fund 
it is the poor.” 
novogratz encouraged students to have the drive and the desire to positively impact the world. 
“you have to accept how hard it is, but also have the audacity to believe we’re going to change the world,” she said. “Find those expe­riences that give you tools for the world. and finally, choose joy.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 





Holiday 
conTinued From page 1 
shapes of skulls and figures, candles, incense, yellow mari­golds, and a photo of the depart­ed soul on the altar. 
“it is a day to celebrate, re­member and prepare special foods in honor of those who have died. on this day in mexico, the streets near the cemeteries are filled with decorations, flowers, candy skeletons and skulls and parades.” 
event was a dedication of an art­ist’s ofrenda, a decorated memo­rial altar, to martin luther King Jr. on oct. 16 at the notre dame center for arts and culture. The second event was at the civil rights heritage center in south bend on oct. 25 and featured another artist’s ofrenda. 
The final event is a presen­tation on the history of dia de los muertos and a blessing of the institute for latino studies’ ofrenda by corpora today at 4 p.m. in the Julian samora library on the second floor of mcKenna hall, cortez said. 
la Fuerza, a club representing latina culture at saint mary’s, has organized an event for each day this week, sophomore cinthya gutierrez, secretary of la Fuerza, said. on monday they set-up and decorated a traditional ofrenda altar, on Tuesday they decorated sugar skulls, on wednesday they held a bilingual mass in le mans chapel and explained the his­tory of día de los muertos, on Thursday they created colorful sawdust carpets — a tradition in mexico and nicaragua. 
Today they are cosponsoring a poetry presentation with the saint mary’s spanish club from 12 to 12:30 p.m. in the dining hall and offering face paint­ing from 8 to 9 p.m. also in the dining hall, gutierrez said. 
corpora said while this is his fourth year at notre dame, it his first year celebrating día de los muertos on campus. 
corpora said he is excited to be a part of the celebration and sees it as a way to preserve tradition and acknowledge humanity. 
“i think it’s really important to preserve cultural traditions and religious traditions. any way i can be involved in doing that, i will be,” he said. “it’s im­portant to remember the dead. we’re all going to die, it’s only a matter of time, and it’s nothing to be afraid of. i want to support things that make people more human, and recognizing death makes us more human.” 

cortez said mariachi nd per­formed at the oct. 16 dia de los muertos event but will not be performing today. she said mariachi music is often an im­portant part of celebrating the holiday. 
“having a mariachi playing during the celebrations is pretty common,” cortez said.  it is a way that people are able to re­member and celebrate the lives of those who have passed on. our music is a way to celebrate this.” 
gutierrez said the most popu­lar dia de los muertos event at saint mary’s thus far was deco­rating sugar skulls on Tuesday in the student center atrium. she said all la Fuerza’s events have drawn a mixture of la Fuerza members and other saint mary’s students, especial­ly the bilingual mass where the majority of attendees were not la Fuerza members. 
celebrating día de los muertos is important to la Fuerza as a means of exposing the saint mary’s community to their heritage, gutierrez said. 
“we have to show campus our culture. a lot of the girls didn’t know what little stuff like the altar and the skulls meant. it’s not just an object, it has mean­ing behind it. it was great to be able to share that.” 
gutierrez said día de los muertos is an important holi­day for her and her family, even though the celebration is dif­ferent now that they live in the united states. 
“it’s a time where i’m able to remember my past relatives. in my family it’s a very important holiday, even though we don’t do as much here as when we were in mexico, gutierrez said. “we would get together to cel­ebrate and we would visit the cemetery to remember our rela­tives. here [in the u.s.] we go to mass and remember them in that way.” 
corpora said the holiday has significance for him as a day to remember his mother, who died about ten years ago. 
“There’s a mexican proverb that says ‘you only die when people no longer remember you,’ so we need to remember those who have gone before,” he said. “i think about my mother every day, but especially around a day like this. we need specific days to make us remember what is important to us.” 
cortez said she values the holiday as a way to celebrate the lives of deceased family members. 
“This day was one in which my family were able to remem­ber family members who had passed on. we were able to re­member the good times that we were able to share with these individuals,” she said. “This day holds a special place in my heart because it reminds us to never forget through the celebration of their lives.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
corpora said día de los muertos has become repre­sentative of mexican culture in many ways, in particular a perspective in mexican culture that is not shared by american culture. 
“The celebration is becom­ing as cultural as it is religious. even though it is rooted in the catholic tradition of all souls day, non-catholics celebrate it all the time,” he said. “in his book, “days of obligation – an argument with my mexican 
paid adverTisemenT 

Father,” richard rodriguez writes of four ways that the anglo culture and the mexican culture are fundamentally different at the core.  one of these, rodriguez writes, is that for anglos, death is an event outside of life.  For mexicans, death is an event inside of life,” corpora said. 
at notre dame the institute for latino studies is sponsoring three día de los muertos events, senior briana cortez, president of mariachi nd, said. The first 


paid adverTisemenT 


The observer | FRIDay, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Donation 
conTinued From page 1 
international affairs] to be near each other,” mark said. 
currently, the liu institute is located in mcKenna hall and is confined by space, mark said. he expects the new space will be hugely ben­eficial for the institute. 
“it’s going to unleash all the potential,” mark said. “The space constraint is just one of the constraints on the re­sources on what we can do effectively. having a physical space is just one piece of the puzzle, but it’s a very impor­tant piece.” 
in the past, mark said the institute has requested spac­es for staff, faculty and visi­tors, as well as for conference rooms and a gathering room for students pursuing asian studies. 
similarly, Keough­naughton institute direc­tor christopher Fox said the new space will be crucial to the expansion of the insti­tute, which had begun with just two faculty members and now has 23 full-time and 10 visiting faculty. 
“we, as an institute, have outgrown our space,” Fox said. “we teach hundreds of students, we have many graduate students, we have many visiting faculty coming in — we have a lot of things happening. it’s gotten to the point now where this is re­ally the next move for this institute.” 

Fox said the building will give the institute a better en­vironment for speakers. 
“Just almost every week, we have major speakers,” he said. “The room here we have is right next to the elevators. it’s not a very good place for peo­ple to speak. The new build­ing would give us better space for those kind of things.” 
The Keoughs have previ­ously contributed to other parts of notre dame, includ­ing the Keough-naughton institute, malloy hall and Keough hall. 
“our family has been blessed in many ways, and that certainly includes the blessing of our longtime as­sociation with this great university,” donald Keough said in the press release. “we believe in the power of notre dame to be a force for good in the world, and we know that the research and teach­ing that will be accomplished in this new facility will con­tribute to that end. we’re especially pleased that the building will bear the name of [university president Fr. John Jenkins], who has made the continued international­ization of the university a top priority.” 

carozza said the Keoughs’ donation fosters a unique op­portunity for notre dame. 
“it’s pretty amazing to be at a place like notre dame where the benefactors of the university are so generous, so plentiful and so commit­ted of the future of the place,” he said. “a project like this shows what a special place notre dame is.” 
Contact Paul Kim at pkim6@nd.edu 

wouldn’t have won without us,” though the grounds crew is not he said. “That’s a game, 40, 50 responsible for cleaning up the years from now i’ll never for-mess in the stands, they have to get because that meant a lot, handle whatever debris falls on just for us to get a big win like the field, he said. that and keep the undefeated “i remember last year when season, and then, you know, they were throwing marshmal­coach coming up and telling lows. we were actually down us he appreciates how much we there with buckets catching did to get the win.” them,” Zannino said. 
Jimmy Zannino, who has been a part of the notre dame ‘The best fertilizer’ grounds crew for 21 years, said brazo said most members of the crew takes both winning the grounds crew have been at and losing to heart. notre dame for a long time and 
“we’re not only workers. most truly care about their jobs and of us on the crew are die-hard the university. notre dame fans, and we take “we take pride. it’s a matter of losing very seriously. we take it pride in what we do, in produc­hard and we love winning, just ing a product that’s pleasing to like the players,” Zannino said. the fans, to the administration, “we feel like we’re part of the to a million Tv viewers, as well football team.” as providing a surface that is 
during the game, some the best playing surface possi­members of the grounds crew ble for the athletes,” brazo said. are stationed by the entrance his crew accomplishes this of the tunnel, where they try to by working more than just the 
trying to just get the field in “it’s like you put a herd of engage the players before the minimum amount of hours, Grounds perfect condition before kick-cows in the middle of a pasture game, miltenberger said. brazo said. conTinued From page 1 off,” he said. “you’re always un-and it’s wet. [The students] “They come down the tunnel “we put in a lot of extra 
der pressure. you just want to trampled it and there was off the ‘play like a champion’ hours this fall because we’ve responsibilities entail setting make it look nice all the time. nothing left,” he said. “it was an sign, and some of us are there had some problems with the up the area outside the stadi-That’s the hard part, just trying 
and we immediately start try-field this year, and they’ll put um, moving program booths to make sure everything’s per­
ing to get them hyped up, and in whatever time they need to and large equipment, fixing fect, the way it’s always been, 
“We’re not only when they’ve been here for four put in to try to get things right,” broken stadium rows, organiz-and hopefully it will always 
years, they know who you are,” he said. “i don’t hardly get dirty 

workers. Most of 

ing handicapped chairs and, of be.” 
he said. anymore unless i fall down be-

us on the crew are 

course, maintaining the field, members of the grounds 
washington said being in the cause i rely on them so much.” grounds crew member chip crew are always on call during 
die-hard Notre tunnel before the game is one Keultjes said the mainte­miltenberger said. home football games, especial-
Dame fans, and we of his favorite parts of the job. nance crew relies on each other “you want to make sure that ly when the weather is poor, 
“we get to stand in the tunnel to get the job done, as well. 

take winning very 

with the band. That’s dope,” he “The best thing is the crew the grass is playable and ev-maintenance crew member Joe 

seriously. We take 

said. “you got the team com-really does get along at times,” for 80,000 [people in the sta-“come game day, we’ll have erything is perfectly ready Keultjes said. 
it hard and we love ing out, the opposing team, our he said. “it’s fun to come to dium] and millions of people every usher in this place call-
winning, just like band right there beating the work with the guys you work watching across the world,” ing for a puddle that needs to 
drums, going crazy.” with.” 

the players. We feel 
miltenberger said. “monday, be pushed out,” Keultjes said. 
despite having good views washington said the crew is 

like we’re part of 

from the sideline, the mainte-always thinking of others’ safe-fertilize it, and usually before game proved especially dif­wednesday, Friday, we mow it, last year’s rainy stanford 
the football team.” nance crew also takes on un-ty when they put in such long every game we top dress it.” ficult for the grounds crew, 
desirable tasks throughout a hours. 
Jimmy Zannino 

home football game. Keultjes “we’re looking out for the peo­after the field is prepared, miltenberger said. 
Grounds crew member 

said the grounds crew is always ple in here,” he said. “we want pers paint the lines. out, if the field is ever coming miltenberger said groundskee-“whenever there’s a Tv time-on “vomit duty.” the best for the people in here, 
“when we make our slants, up, we’ll run out there and we’ll exciting game, but if it wouldn’t “it would seem that the num-students, staff and anybody we always put the slants to-get it back down, make sure it’s have rained, we wouldn’t have ber’s decreasing of the vomit who wants to watch the game.” ward the student section … safe,” he said. “at the stanford cared. but since it was rain-calls we get. it used to be we The care and attention with towards the dome, which is game … it rained all week, and ing, it kinda hurt our whole could have an average of 95 which they approach their jobs behind the student section,” the field is grass and it can only process.” calls but now we’re down to reflect in the quality of their he said. “if you ever notice, in take so much water. we were miltenberger said irish foot-probably 20 calls,” he said. work, Keultjes said. the north end zone, the slants just out there trying to get it ball coach brian Kelly appreci-“From being on the inside, the “what’s the best fertilizer, go toward the students, toward back down level so the players ated the work the grounds crew less you drink, the more you packy?” Keultjes asked his the dome and the lake.” can keep playing.” did during last year’s stanford enjoy the game. people that are colleague. 
bad weather also impacts the Keultjes said the crew had game and thanked the mem-vomiting [aren’t] enjoying the “The shadow of a grounds maintenance crew’s tasks for to dump sand on the sideline bers afterward. game.” keeper,” washington said. the week, miltenberger said. during the game because it “we’re in the break room, The last home game of the “stadium dudes. That’s what 
“a week like [this one], the became too wet. The field was changing into dry clothes, and season is especially messy we are.” game this saturday — we prob-also in poor shape after the coach Kelly comes up and just for the grounds crew because ably have about 100 gallons of game because the students tells us how much of a good of the seniors’ marshmal-Contact Tori Roeck at water on the tarp, [and we’re] rushed it, washington said. job we did and that the team low fight, Zannino said. even vroeck@nd.edu 


concerns from them,’” Kelly said. hurt and seeing that your next play beginning of my time there], but government’s overreach into the 

Kelly 

“i said, ‘This has nothing to do could be your last play, you start to once you’re there you start to get lives of americans. 
conTinued From page 1 

with contraception and every-grow up really fast. some places that are really near “i looked at [this experience] 
rep. mike Kelly (r-pa-3), who thing to do with contradiction.’ “you learn very quickly that and dear to your heart,” Kelly said. and said, you know, this is amaz­obtained his b.a. in sociology in our First amendment, we are there is a process that you go “i spent a lot of time at the grotto. ing. here’s mike Kelly sitting in from notre dame in 1970, wrote guaranteed these rights are en-through, and when things don’t … even now when i go back, my little butler, ia., and this is a gov-in support of an alternative plan shrined by the people that put this go the right way you say ‘okay, fine, first visit is always to the grotto. ernment that can come in and proposed by house republicans — together, that we don’t have to do there’s something else to do.’ but “There’s just something about not because you’re not running the american health care reform [certain] things, but you’re telling politics, never.” this campus. … it’s different from your business the right way, not act, or h.r. 3121 — in the sept. 29 me, ‘yes, you do.’” Kelly said the influences of his anyplace else. i’ve been to a lot because you haven’t met all of the issue of the erie Times-news. family and the university’s recruit-of different places to visit, but no metrics that they’ve established, 
This plan will do what he be-Our Lady’s family ers brought him to notre dame to place had the attraction of notre they can decide you’re not going to lieves president obama’s health Far from the only debate Kelly play football. dame.” be in business anymore. care law fails to accomplish, Kelly has entered during his time in the “i’m irish catholic, and grow-“why? That’s not america.” wrote in the opinion piece. house of representatives, his ad-ing up, everybody in my fam-The car dealership 
“This common sense alternative vocacy for the republican alter-ily was all notre dame fans,” he after graduating, Kelly said he a voice for a smaller federal to the aca … [makes] american native health care plan represents said. “i really thought i was going returned to work for his father’s car government medical care — already the most the most recent embodiment of to go to penn state. … but, Terry dealership. after the cash for clunkers pro­sought-after in the world — more the sense for service he discerned hanratty [notre dame class of “i didn’t really realize until my gram almost put his dealership out affordable and more accessible to at notre dame. 1968, former quarterback] was senior year [that my post-grad-of business, Kelly said he was driv­the most vulnerable among us in “i think notre dame teaches a year ahead of me at school, uation plans were unusually es-en to run for his seat in the third a way that does not damage our you a sense of responsibility, that and he went to notre dame.” tablished], but when everybody district. economy or disrupt anyone’s ex-we all have to give back at some Though his time at notre dame started to talk about applying for as a representative, he said he isting coverage,” Kelly said in the point,” Kelly said. “whether it’s started with football, Kelly said jobs and what they’re going to do, has worked to free the people from opinion piece. “[o]ur plan oper-your church, in your schools or in he remembers his time at the they asked me, ‘what are you go-a government that has grown too ates on the principle that free mar-your community, i think it’s just university for the introduction ing to do?’” Kelly said. “i said, ‘i am large. ket competition and maximized who we are at notre dame, that it gave him to ‘the notre dame going back home because my fam-“all of the things that i have individual choice are not just we take our experiences at notre family.’ ily has a business.’ i had never real-talked about here have nothing worthy goals but downright indis-dame and take that into whoever “when i first went to notre ly thought about that aspect of my do with a government, it has to pensible components of patient-we are after notre dame and build dame it was because of football, life because i had always thought do with people,” Kelly said. “The centered health-care reform.” on that.” but once i was at notre dame it i would stay in athletics, but that government serves the people, the 
Kelly opposed the plan from its Kelly graduated from notre was because of notre dame. … evaporated. people do not serve the govern-introduction to the national politi-dame with a degree in sociology we’re all family. it doesn’t matter “but it was just kind of natural for ment, and there should never be cal discussion as a mandate from and a minor in philosophy and where you’re from or what you’ve me, because i worked at the deal-a situation where the government the department of health and theology. although he said he en-done before, once you get there ership since i was little. whether it has grown so big, so powerful and human services issued on Jan. 20, joyed discussing philosophical you are a part of the notre dame was washing cars, sweeping floors, so arrogant that they turn their 2012, and the announcement aug. and theological issues with his family,” Kelly said. “i was very helping mechanics get parts, i was backs on the people that they are 1, 2012, that the plan would be im-classmates, Kelly said he never disappointed that i got hurt and always part of it and it was just supposed to serve.” plemented thereafter. expected to enter politics after wasn’t able to play, but i was never kind of expected. i was the oldest Kelly’s education at notre dame 
Though criticized for his com-graduation. disappointed that i stayed at notre boy in the family, i had two young-and his small-business experience ments Kelly said he felt he needed “it was never my intention to go dame. i always thought that was er brothers, but my dad just kind of prompted him to conclude that to stand up to what he called an into politics,” Kelly said. “if any-the best decision i had ever made assumed i would be there.” government intervention is not the infringement on americans’ First body had asked me back then and in my life.” when his father looked to tran-best tool to enrich the lives of the amendment rights. said, ‘oh, do you think you would Kelly said his connection to the sition away from work at the deal-american people. 
“i was criticized because they ever run for office?’ i would have campus grew during his time as ership, Kelly said he sat down with “look at the founding of the were saying, ‘oh, you’re trying said ‘oh my gosh, no.’ at first i went an undergraduate student. his sons to talk about their interest university,” he said. “They were to take away women’s health there to play football. after getting “Football was a huge part of [the in the dealership. traveling, they get sick and stop in 
“There were three of us, and south bend. … They decided to 
paid adverTisemenT 

when it came time for my dad … build a church, to build a school, to transition, he brought the three to build a way of life for people – no of us into his office and said, ‘okay government help. There is not one look: i have three sons, i have one penny from the government that business, and i kind of feel like helped start notre dame. solomon — i want to know what “i look at these things in my life you guys want to do,’” Kelly said. and think, ‘what in the world is it “[he said], ‘i’m not giving anybody that makes these people think that anything, because if i give it to you, self-reliance is no longer the key?’ you’ll lose it. if you have to buy it, if it’s reliance on the government you have to go to the bank, get the that should change, but we have money and make payments on it, regulated the [rich] and vilified you’ll watch it every day.’” them.” 
Kelly said he alone among his Kelly said he strongly opposed brothers wanted to take up man-what he calls the vilification of the agement of the dealership. people that contribute the most to 
“[my dad] started from nothing; the funding of our country. he was a parts picker in a ware-“notre dame would never at-house,” Kelly said. “it was hard for tack the people that fund it,” Kelly him to finally make that decision said.  “[some] people do, they to sell and walk away from his vilify people that are successful. baby.” … really? who is funding it all? 
The same people you have just Protecting his father’s legacy criticized.” 
The government’s installation although he would rather see of a new chairman offthe general the government reinforce self-reli­motors board of directors threat-ance among the american people, ened individual dealership own-he said his own experiences gives ers, Kelly said. because Kelly’s him hope. dealership sold general motors “after being on the ground for 65 vehicles, he received a 39-page years, i have had my nose bloodied document and a request from the a lot,” Kelly said.  “i have had a lot general motors regional manager of days where things went really to sign over his business. Kelly said well, but i’ve had more days where he refused because he needed to things went badly. The key was not protect his father’s legacy. getting knocked down, it was get­
 “we hired some people legally, ting back up. spent about 60 thousand dollars in “There’s always tomorrow. legal fees, but then during the arbi-There’s always the promise of a tration i got a call … and [was told new day.” i would get the dealership back].” 
This experience highlighted Contact Nicole Michels at for him what Kelly said was the nmichels@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDay, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INsIDE COLuMN 


silence is a scary thing 

Steph Wulz 
graphics editor 

silence is a scary thing. it’s some­thing you come to realize when you live alone in a small apartment in a big city. being alone with your thoughts is a very raw thing. i was removed from the comfort of living with my best friends at school and instead forced to wake up to sounds of the tenant next to me. The drastic transition compelled me to connect more frequently with my friends and family across the country through social media. 
it was a blessing and a curse. 
it was always easy to grab my phone and use it as a crutch to get through the loneliness by know­ing that someone on Facebook was reaching out to me. i was avoiding being by myself and living in the moment because i didn’t know how to live in that particular moment. i had conditioned myself to use social networking on my phone to bypass the stress of it all, and i got good at it. 
i soon realized that i was spend­ing the majority of my day connect­ing with people everywhere else other than where i was. i felt even more disconnected from the people around me and even myself. 
it was eerie. i felt lost. 

louis c. K., one of my favor­ite comedians, was on conan in september and spoke about why he hates cell phones. if you haven’t checked his bit out yet, i urge you to do so. The part that resonated most with me was what he called our in­ability of “being a person” anymore. we rarely have the self-control nowadays to just sit, think, and feel. There is a fear and vulnerability about experiencing sadness, but when we allow ourselves to listen to our emotions and not avoid it, it is liberating. 
i had to make a change in my be­havior to allow myself to live in the now – to reclaim the moments of personal reflection and connection to the people around me. i no longer wanted to be a part of society that replaced skills of verbal commu­nication with the dependence and comfort of social media. 
i went on a digital detox. 

i recently deleted all the social media apps on my cell phone and life has been great. i no longer have the distractions notifying me throughout the day and find myself making deeper connections with people because i don’t have a phone 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

A caddie, a plumber and a priest 
i have a friend named rick who is the caddie master at seminole golf club in Florida. he is a huge university of oklahoma fan. For a long time, he and i talked about going to the nd-ou game together and we made it happen. well, we all know that ou won, but what started as an occasion for ribbing, chid­ing and the liberal use of bragging rights turned into a lesson in hu­mility, friendship and class. 
here is the backstory: rick and his friend — who happens to be a plumber and an equally staunch sooners fan — and i all headed to notre dame for the game. we visited practice at the stadium on Friday, went to the pep rally, toured the campus and generally had a grand old time. 
unbeknownst to my ou friends, i had two sets of tickets — my usual seats behind the irish bench and another set far away. i wanted options because there was no way i was going to sit behind the irish team with folks decked out in oklahoma gear. come game day, however, my friends showed up in classic blue and gold. i was im­pressed. Two fierce ou fans came to notre dame and embraced our school. That is classy. 

on the way home, while reliving the highlights of the weekend, my friends mentioned that they picked up something “precious” at the bookstore — a rosary — that was intended as a present for an 85-year old friend. They proceeded to the grotto to say a prayer. once there, they engaged in a conversation with a priest and asked him to bless the rosary. The priest told them he was “absolutely delighted to do it.” i wondered aloud who the priest was and, much to my surprise, they recalled his name. They said it was [university president Fr.] John Jenkins. stunned, i asked if they knew that he is the president of the university. They did not. 
To them, he was a kind, welcom­ing, charming man of god who gave them a special gift in blessing such an important item. To me, Father John represented the spirit of our school. he epitomized grace and class, and i was beyond proud that my friends received such a lovely reception, not only from the notre dame community, but also from the very head of the university. 
do not get me wrong: i wish we won the game, but the weekend was a “win” in my book. Thank you, notre dame, for giving me ample opportunity to experience triumph both on and off the football field. 
go irish! 
Jimmy Dunne 
alumnus class of 1978 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The ghost of snack cart past 
debartolo hall. February 21, 2013.  Just another Thursday, right? 
no, it was so much more. February 21st was the first time debartolo saw snackage.  The la­dies of the ‘lew’ set off to accom­plish bucket list item #87: have a snack cart in debartolo. after completing dozens of bucket list items that were memorable, yet mainly focused on our enjoyment, the snack cart was set to be our coming out party of sorts. 
after nearly 4 years of the food-less debart grind, we saw too many student government leaders come in and out without provid­ing us with the snacks that we needed so desperately.  This was our chance to do something that mattered. The Facebook invite had hundreds of attendees, the snacks were purchased, and our flag flew proudly on our homemade snackcart.  we gave away hun­dreds of granola bars, ring pops and bags of cheetos. 

students were shocked: free snacks? here? in debartolo? yes, domers.  dreams do come true. we made friends and got some really great laughs. That is, until we were shut down.  as our event was unapproved, the debartolo building manager ushered us out­side into the snow, and the 12:30 classes started.  what were the other, less desirable results of this effort? a not-so-friendly contact with sao, the threat of reslifes and crushed hopes that we’d ever see food in debartolo. 
The day passed and the hunger lingered.  we had a fantastic time, but as it was spring semester of senior year, hope was loss.  That is, until we got the great news that au bon pain, our library savior, expanded to the busiest campus building.  although it’s tough to not take at least some of the credit for this new addition, our hope is that some of you think back to last semester and faintly remember the first time you may have snacked in debartolo. 
so, thank you, debartolo hall, thank you, student government, and thank you, abp. although we aren’t there to see the fruit (snacks) of our labor, we appreci­ate the snack cart and the flash­backs to the greatest year of our lives. 
Taylor Sticha Sydney Speltz Mary Dos Catherine de la Rosa Mara Catlaw Katie Hennessy Anna Bennett 
alumnae class of 2013 
QuOTE OF THE Day 
“we must remember that any oppression, any injustice, any hatred, is a wedge designed to attack our civilization.” 
Franklin Delano Roosevelt 
Former u.s. president 


to use in dull moments or boring table talk. see if you can handle it and try it out. 
Contact Steph Wulz  at swulz@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | FRIDay, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Halloween costumes misappropriate culture 
Katrina Linden 
Kat’s meow 

with halloween happening this week, i thought it only appropriate to discuss the phenomenon of mocking other cultures with a costume for the laughs it may bring. i surprisingly find myself questioning how an individual dressed as a stereotypical mexican is offensive, while another could dress as a Japanese geisha for halloween and be considered unique and alluring. as a latina, i should be extremely offended when individuals of another ethnicity wear halloween costumes that stereotype my culture and i should thus consider it racist. however, i am supposed to accept that my various hispanic friends can do the same without any reprimands because they are of that culture or ethnicity. i find these double standards to be confusingly touchy subject that has no definite explanation. 
Those who choose to dress as exagger­ated forms of one’s ancestors and relatives and successfully mock generations of cul­ture do so because they do not understand that it is only okay when people of that specific origin do it. They likely believe that because a costume is sold in a bag by a com­mercial department store that it has sud­denly become okay to mock the drunken mexican man of the mexican revolution riding a donkey across the desert. 
maybe it is due to the over-exaggeration of the characters being portrayed. no real mexican dresses in an oversized sombrero and rainbow poncho with a bottle of tequila in his hand. That’s why it is presumably funny. Trayvon martin was wearing a gray hoodie and carrying a bag of skittles and an arizona Tea. That’s not funny. but yet, i have seen a handful of costumes of the very sort this week alone. why do people insist on dressing up as such controversial figures and expect others to not be offended by them? do they legitimately believe their costumes are hilariously original? Further, i’m not quite sure i can see the humor in a costume depicting stereotypical american subculture archetypes either, yet others do and find it acceptable to dress as so. 
perhaps the reason nobody was offended by a geisha costume was because there was nobody around to defend it at the time. in an increasingly more culturally diverse society it is more difficult to get away with these kinds of things. people of american ethnic subcultures are becoming more empowered in social and political arenas, allowing them to raise their voice and have their opinion be heard and further respect­ed more so than they would have been even five years ago. campaigns like the “we’re a culture, not a costume” attest to that. but still, i am plagued by the question of why it is okay for a latino to dress as his own eth­nic stereotype, or for an african-american to dress as a figure of his culture, but others may not. i fear i am missing something. 

greater than this comes the question of why it is okay for one group of individuals to mock themselves using racial slurs af­fectionately to refer to a companion of the same race, but it becomes extremely rac­ist when a white male says the same to a friend. 
i know i risk appearing unsympathetic or prejudiced. but, i am still having a difficult time figuring this out. i think a lot of it has to do with the fact that these are our cultures as individuals of various ethnic groups; the same ones that those of mainstream american culture and society have op­pressed and rejected throughout the de­cades. why now, has rapping and twerking become cool, “street” tacos have become an american food staple, and dressing as Tupac in full black face for halloween has become less of admiring an advocate of eth­nic empowerment and more of a mockery of the “thug life”? 
by taking another individual’s culture and warping the meaning of it, it not only devalues the novelty of it but also cre­ates a mockery of it, essentially stripping individuals of the very essence of their be­ing. i do believe that as an ethnic minority, the most important thing for me is holding on to my culture. and when another person takes a cultural practice or tradition and superficially appropriates it, we have noth­ing else to call our own. something that an individual may see as funny or trendy in mimicking it in essence, could potentially greatly offend a member of the culture be­ing portrayed. 
This is not saying to stop enjoying the benefits of my culture and the culture of others, but to do so with the awareness of the significance of your actions in terms of that culture. have common sense and do not believe that because a cisgender middle-class white male would not be of­fended by a redneck halloween costume that a middle-class hispanic woman would not be offended by your portrayal of ethnic minorities whether in spite or in humor, because they are two completely different experiences. 
Katrina Linden is a sophomore English major with a Studio Art minor living in Lewis Hall. She can be reached at klinden1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The gauntlet: stories over standards 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 

There are undoubtedly many stress­ful moments when applying to colleges. many more follow when deciding where to attend, filling out paperwork, and get­ting ready to head to school. For notre dame students, applying for housing is not one of these moments. in contrast to the questionnaires and requests at other schools, notre dame asks a single ques­tion: do you wish to accept on-campus housing? 
Facing that question the summer before freshman year, i hit yes and thought nothing more of it. sometime later, i logged in to see my housing as­signment: sg-241. my first thought was something along the lines of “what in the world is sg?” after i looked it up, my thoughts morphed into some com­bination of “Thank god it’s not carroll,” “it’s not Zahm either!” and “where is siegfried?” soon enough i stumbled upon the siegfried freshmen Facebook group. among the comments that awaited was one from a now siegfried ra welcoming everyone in section 2b to the ‘gauntlet,’ a place that would provide “all studying and no fun as your parents require.” we were lied to. 
as fifteen of us wide-eyed freshmen entered the section, we were immedi­ately indoctrinated into a section that can only be described as fifty percent planned chaos, fifty percent unplanned debauchery, and one hundred percent brotherhood. in case there was any con­fusion about the expected ratio of study­ing to activities that definitively did not constitute studying, we were informed that the study lounge had been converted to a freshman triple. and so began my life in the gauntlet. 
in the time since, i’ve witnessed a sec­tion that has become closer than i ever imagined 40-50 college guys could be­come. we’ve seen a bevy of party ideas that descended into full-blown shenani­gans. we’ve seen post-party trips to steak n’ shake and Five guys that ended up with the majority of the section asleep at the table, and a few others stuck in the bathroom. and the bushes. and a trash can or three. we’ve seen a past ra slap the bag with his former freshmen, and maybe once while they were still his freshmen, at a wine mixer. 
we’ve watched our section spend its al­lotted section funds on a scooter, as well as a two-person camel costume (coming to a hump day near you!). we’ve watched the section go caroling across campus with spirits buoyed by christmas cheer among other things. we’ve seen two years worth of secret santa exchanges, the contents of which the observer can­not print. we’ve seen seniors and fresh­men alike bond as they do on no other campus, and perhaps in no other section. i’ve watched stolen bags of chips be punt­ed across the room at 3 a.m. by a section member in his birthday suit. we’ve ven­tured en masse to laFortune wearing just boxers. we’re still working on the whole ‘pants’ thing. 

we’ve seen hundreds of hours spent, but never wasted, talking aimlessly in the lounge. inexplicably, we’ve seen a heated four and a half hour gay marriage debate. we’ve seen a section collectively decide that 11 p.m. on sunday is as good a time as any to drink away a football loss and rally to the cry of “empty the fridge!” well into monday morning. it’s been described by others as a section that val­ues “stories over standards” and a place where you’re encouraged to “come as you are.” in the words of another section’s ra, it’s the “closest bunch of idiots ever.” 
we’ve seen guys graduate as others have entered, and yet managed to have everyone keep in touch. we’ve produced engineers, naval officers, businessmen and a learned doctor or two. we even sent a kid to the seminary for all of a month and a half. we’ve seen a few punches thrown, a few shoves tossed, and ul­timately, a few bonds strengthened. we have rallied around one another in triumph and tragedy. we’ve stood forty strong with shaved heads in unison with a cancer-stricken ‘gauntleteer.’ we’ve had too many laughs to count, too many tears for anyone’s good, and far more utiliza­tion of the phrase “clothing optional” than anyone needed. seriously, no one wears pants. it’s a problem. 
in surveying my fellow residents on how they would describe the gauntlet, i received a variety of replies. “perfect.” “raucous.” “hawt.” “oh dear.” “home.” 
“drunk.” “Family.” one said a pejorative loosely rhyming with ‘tassels.’ another said “chivalrous,” but i think we all know that’s a lie. regardless of the descrip­tion, i can think of no place on earth i would rather live. i came to notre dame for college, and found a few dozen more brothers. i came here for an education, and found a second family. There are stories that will be told at weddings, oth­ers best saved for bachelor parties, and others still best never told again. There are friendships that have been forged that will never be lost. so here’s to you guys, the best section anyone could ask for. For the memories, for tonight, and for the many tomorrows, i thank you. if i know anything about you all, it’s that you’ll drink to that. 
oh, and the section also wanted to apologize to the girl in the virginia Tech sweatshirt and her friend. we didn’t mean to awkwardly surround you guys at the dining hall table a few days ago, or the other two people we surrounded again later that night. it wasn’t intentional. There were open seats, and it just sort of happened. our bad. 
Matt Miklavic is a junior studying finance and political science from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He’ll be cel­ebrating the World Series well into the weekend. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | FRIDay, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Winner: 
DylanSonnier, Winnie the Pooh 


Runners Up 

Colleen Reidy as Mia Thermopolis Sinead O’Donovan as Red Riding Hood 

Jackie Bruns as Pocahantas From the left: Rachel Krejchi and Chelsea Palmer as Team Rocket, Margaret Harrison as Ash Ketchum and Olivia Schneider as Misty 



Photos by Kevin Noonan 


Matt Thomas as Alfalfa Mark Davidson as a TF2 Engineer 
EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 


The observer | FRIDay, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MORE THAN 
ACTORS 

PLAYLIST 
These multitalented artists are more than just pretty faces; they also have pretty voices. Take a look at some of these succesful actors turned successful musicians. 


“Sin Guia, No” Juana Molina  
02  “Pa Pa Power” Dead Man’s Bones  
03  “I Could’ve Been Your Girl” She & Him  
04  “Tested Dry” Jena Malone and Her Bloodstains  



Allie Tollaksen 
scene writer 

we’ve all seen it before: one day an actor is on your favorite television show and the next day they’re performing some auto-tuned pop song or lo-fi indie ballad. The awkward transition actors make into music careers has happened consistently for de­cades, and we have come to know the questionable musical stylings of david hasselhoff and vanessa hudgens alike. 
Thanks to music groups like wicked wisdom, Jada pinkett smith’s awful metal band, and Joaquin phoenix’s bizarre rap career, if you can call it that, the actor-turned-musician career path is seldom taken seriously and even more rarely well-received by the public. 
but though there have been a fair share of celebrity actors-turned-musicians who should have stuck to their day jobs, i’m here to insist that we give them a chance. well, at least some of them. 
sure, i’ve done my fair share of poking fun at them. but with the release of a new album by one of my favorite musicians, a comedian-turned-folk singer, i am reminded that some worthwhile music comes from the creative minds of silver screen celebrities. 
For all of you who roll your eyes at the attempts of actors in the music world, here is a list of some actors worth a listen. “sin Guia, No” – Juana Molina. 
Juana molina quit her career as a famous come­dian in argentina to pursue a career in folk music in 1996 and has been cranking out remarkable albums since. by using live looping techniques, simple gui­tar, percussion and layered vocals, she has created a unique style of experimental folk. “sin guia, no” is the second single off of her newest album, “wed 21,” which was released this week. “Pa Pa Power” – Dead Man’s Bones. 
in 2009, the band dead man’s bones released track, “dead man’s bones” was equal parts catchy and peculiar. what may be even more peculiar, how­ever, is that one half of the band is heartthrob ryan gosling.  performing under the alias “baby goose,” he and friend Zach shields recorded the album and played a “halloween tour” in 2009, making ryan gosling somehow even cooler than he already was. 
“I Could’ve Been your Girl“ – she & Him. 
after hearing her sing christmas songs in 2003’s “elf,” we all knew Zooey deschanel had a beautiful voice, but not enough people know that she has been collaborating with musician m. ward and perform­ing under the name she & him for over five years. The duo have released four albums, including a christmas album, so you can sing along to her ver­sion of “baby it’s cold outside” without will Ferrell’s awkward interruption. “Tested Dry” – Jena Malone and Her Bloodstains. 
The “donnie darko” actress Jena malone hasn’t exactly launched a music career, but she did release two songs on a seven-inch vinyl in 2007 worth not­ing. The two tracks feature malone’s voice warbling along to folk guitar and are both very odd and very catchy. Though “Tested dry” has a guitar part al­most distractingly similar to weezer’s “undone,” it’s the better of the two tracks and makes me wish she made more music. “When you Get To asheville” – steve Martin and Edie Brickell. 
if you haven’t heard steve martin’s music yet, you are seriously missing out. Though you may not expect the legendary comedian to be a serious mu­sician, one listen to his banjo playing and it’s clear that his talent spans far beyond comedy. Though his banjo has been part of his standup and skits for 40 years, he’s also an accomplished bluegrass musician, winning grammys in country and bluegrass cat­egories. his latest album, a collaboration with edie brickell, was released this year. 


their first album of the same name. with songs that Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu “When You Get to Asheville” focused mostly on ghosts, monsters and all things    The views expressed in this column are those of the Steve Martin and Edie Brickell spooky, as well as featuring a children’s choir in each author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

many musicians, especially those in the indie and electronic music scenes, experi­ment with music to create artsy smatter­ings of sound. For example, an album can be crafted out of many different songs that together tell a broader story. each individ­ual song can use strange time signatures or chord progressions to push our ears into unfamiliar territories. sometimes, listening to experimental music can be difficult or even unpleasant, but a good piece of work always rewards the listener in some way. The majority of experimen­tal pieces reveals layers of meaning or even hints of poppy, familiar melodies woven into the fabric. 
laurel halo’s music has always fallen into the category of “experimental elec­tronic” music, or music that relies heavily on computer manipulation and synthe­sizers to explore new sounds. For a while, the songwriter failed to burst into the spotlight; her work, though innovative, sounded cold and distant. with her debut album, “Quarantine,” halo introduced vocals and harmonies into her complex electronic soundscapes, breathing life and emotion into an otherwise unap­proachable sound. The juxtaposition of vocals, alien synthesizers, and chords that hung confusingly between major and minor created a work that was not only ex­citing but human. on a couple of tracks, halo incorporated relatively simple melo­dies into her shifting beats, crafting tan­talizing near-pop songs out of unfamiliar sonic ingredients. all in all, “Quarantine” was a masterpiece, a record full of crazy ideas that rewarded the listener time and time again with snippets of the familiar. 
with her new record, “chance of rain,” halo’s gotten rid of the vocals. most of the tracks are devoid of melody, filled instead with rambling beats that subtly shift and evolve over time. perhaps the greatest difference between “Quarantine” and “rain” is represented in the album cov­ers – while “Quarantine’s” cover fea­tures bright neon rainbows, “rain” is a black-and-white depiction of a graveyard. while “Quarantine’s” swirling synths were thick and colorful, “rain” is a much more monochromatic piece. The synths are thinner and crisper, and the drum machines rattle and shudder. “chance of rain” takes halo’s sound back into the alien territory she previously inhabited, and unfortunately it sounds like a step backwards instead of an improvement or a revelation. 

not necessarily a bad piece of art, “chance of rain” is just much, much harder to appreciate. it often seems emo­tionless, and it’s not the sort of electron­ic record that anyone would dance to either—which are two reasons why we lis­ten to music in the first place. “chance of rain” is essentially a collection of beat ex­periments full of shifting ideas that sound new and different, but not particularly interesting. Tracks change, adding new sonic elements to basic, repetitive beats, sometimes morphing the sonic landscape completely but rarely into anything mem­orable or interesting. 
laurel halo is certainly doing some­thing every track, it’s just hard to tell why she’s doing it, and even harder to later remember what she actually did. 
as a man who listens to a lot of experi­mental music, i have to say this record is one of the most confusing and driest piec­es i’ve worked with. almost complete lack of melody makes this album personally impenetrable. perhaps there’s something deep and meaningful to be discovered, but if so, i can’t find it. although i’d like to say i don’t need emotion or social motiva­tion to listen to music, “chance of rain” is the album that forces me to recognize that’s just not true yet. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“Chance of Rain” 
Laurel Halo 
Label: Kode9 Tracks: ? If you like: Aphex Twin, Venetian Snares 
????? out of 5 
EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 


sPORTs auTHORITy 

Heads, shoulders, knees and fines 

Isaac Lorton 
sports writer 
wide receivers and de­fensive backs in the nFl are known for their back and forth comments, try­ing to one up the other guy, but how far is too far? 
washington redskins safety brandon meriweather responded to chicago bears wide re­ceiver brandon marshall with some pointed comments on monday, after marshall said meriweather should be suspended or kicked out of the league. 
marshall received one of meriwether’s two illegal hits to the head during the redskins and bears game on sunday, oct. 20. meriweather was fined $15,000 and suspended for two games. after an ap­peal, it was bumped down to one. 
That should be the end of it, but marshall, along with bears tight end martellus bennett, came out to say that he should be suspended for a longer period of time or even kicked out of the nFl. Trying to get the last word is fun, but when does it stop?  
“he feels like i need to be kicked out of the league?” meriweather said. “i feel like people who beat their girlfriends should be kicked out of the league too. you tell me who you’d rather have: someone who plays aggressive on the field or someone who beat up their girlfriend?”he brings up a valid point. maybe a bit too personal, but true. meriweather was referencing marshall’s multiple domestic vio­lence arrests. 
all charges were eventu­ally dropped, but these disputes with his girl­friend have even gone so far as marshall ending up in the hospital with stab wounds. if you are going to call other people out for their aggressiveness on the field, at least be ready for the backlash. 
These words came from someone who probably feels a bit trapped in his current situation. There typically is a line that people should not and do not cross, but these comments may have been caused by the pressure defensive backs feel in the ever-dictating nFl. 
every time a big hit is laid on a receiver the side­lines and fans go nuts, screaming for a penalty and emphatically waving their hands like a magical yellow flag will appear if they flap around franti­cally. it’s ridiculous. and now that the nFl is piling on fines and suspensions, what is a hard-hitting safety to do? 
meriwetaher also spoke out about all of the “player safety” concerns from the nFl front of­fice and the nFl players association about head injuries. 
“i guess i just got to take people’s knees out,” meriweather said. “That’s the only way. i would hate to end a guy’s career over a rule, but i guess it’s bet­ter other people than me getting suspended for longer. you just have to go low now, man. you’ve got to end people’s careers. you got to tear people’s acls and mess up people’s knees. you can’t hit them high anymore.” 
what people (or maybe just us journalists in need of a little drama) don’t get was that meriweather was being sarcastic. 
yes he does have a histo­ry of headhunting on the field, and yes he would most likely be the first player to actually target people’s knees, but he is frustrated with an impos­sible situation placed on him and other defensive backs in the nFl. he is just being honest. but the nFlpa and nFl did not see the comments that way. 
demaurice smith, the players association’s ex­ecutive director spoke with meriweather about his comments and merton hanks, nFl’s vice president of football op­erations also talked to meriweather. 
not about the comments made about marshall and his personal life, but about the targeting acl’s. They won’t punish meriweather but they will keep a close eye on him, because player safety is the top concern for the nFl. so on Thursday, meriweather apologized. For being a bit too honest. 
Contact Isaac at ilorton@nd.edu The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Colts face uphill battle blocking Watts 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — The colts have a major chal­lenge on sunday night: Keeping the Texans and defensive end J.J. watt away from franchise quar­terback andrew luck. 
watt, the ap defensive player of the year in 2012, sacked luck three times in houston’s win over the colts last december. in two games against the Texans last season, luck was sacked six times. 
This season, watt has 4 1/2 sacks. he needs a half-sack to set the franchise record for most sacks by a Texans player in his first three seasons. 
“he’s got the physical at­tributes and the strength and speed,” luck said. “his motor runs all the time. he’s chasing guys down 30 yards away. he’s making plays everywhere.” 
watt does the dirty work, too, taking on extra block­ers and still making plays against the run. watt has 54 tackles this season, in­cluding 12 for losses. 
“he has a great combi­nation of power, speed and determination to wreak havoc in your back­field,” colts offensive co­ordinator pep hamilton said. “he’s not just a good pass rusher, but he’s hell to deal with as far as try­ing to run the football. he takes on double teams, he splits double teams. he finds ways to get into your backfield and disrupt your 

FOR RENT 

B&B for ND/SMC parents by ND parents, 2 night minimum. 10 minutes from campus. 574-272-5640 
Nah you don’t know me Lightning above and a fire below me You cannot catch me, cannot  hold me You cannot stop, much  less  control me When it rains it pours When the floodgates open, brace your shores That pressure don’t care when it breaks your doors Say it’s all you can take, better take some more ‘Caue I know what it’s like to test fate Had my shoulders pressed with that weight Stood up strong in spite of that hate The night gets darkest right before dawn What don’t kill you make you more strong And I’ve been waiting for it so long The nights 
run game. “ 
watt anchors a unit that ranks no. 1 in both total defense and fewest yards allowed passing. The colts expect to face a tough unit, even though linebacker brian cushing, the team’s leading tackler, is on injured reserve (left knee). 
“you look at the film, and it’s obvious you’re facing one of the best defenses in the nFl,” hamilton said. “i don’t know if they have a weakness.” 
hamilton said his staff is putting in extra time trying to figure out how to keep watt’s damage to a minimum. 
“of course, we’ll have some schemes to account for J.J.,” hamilton said. “That’s good on paper, but we’ve got to go out on the field and execute on game day.” 
houston coach gary Kubiak said watt expects the extra attention. after all, watt had a franchise record 20 1/2 sacks last season, one of the best seasons for a pass rusher in nFl history. 
“naturally, as the guy plays and the longer he plays, especially you play him over and over again in your division, people are going to game-plan him and do different things to account for him,” Kubiak said. “so yeah, he’s seen a lot of different things.” 
Kubiak added watt has become more comfortable in wade phillips’ defense. 
“he’s been consis­tent, he’s still making his plays,” Kubiak said. “we haven’t made some of the big plays defensively that we were making a year ago, and that’s something that we’re searching for.” 
as good as watt is, he also has a difficult task. watt will have to get through a colts line that has kept luck on his feet for the most part. The colts went into the off­season focused on im­proving luck’s protection, and hamilton said the re­vamped unit has done a solid job. luck has been sacked 15 times in seven games. 
“our offensive line, con­sidering that we’ve had to shuffle and juggle that lineup quite a bit, those guys are continuing to build that continuity that they’re going to need for the long haul,” hamilton said. 
luck also is one of the league’s most athlet­ic quarterbacks. he has rushed for 183 yards and three touchdowns. his elusiveness has given his speedy receivers, espe­cially T.y. hilton, more chances to make big plays. 
luck will face one of 
his  toughest  challenges  
yet  against  the  Texans,  
and  not  just  from  watt.  

antonio smith, who made the pro bowl last year, has 2 1/2 sacks from the other defensive end spot, and a reputation for creating problems for offenses. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all 
classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
go on Waiting for a light that never comes I chase the sun Waiting for a light that never comes Oh oh oh Waiting for a light that never comes When I was young they told me, they said Make your bed you lie in that bed A king can only reign til it’s dead Here comes that day, it’s off with his head The night gets darkest right before dawn What don’t kill you makes you more strong You’ll have my mercy when you’re gone The nights go on Waiting for a light that never comes I chase the sun Waiting for a light that never comes Oh oh oh Waiting for a light that never comes I told them, nah you don’t know me Lightning above and a fire below me You cannot catch me, you cannot hold me You cannot stop much less control me When it rains it pours When the floodgates open, brace your shores That pressure don’t care, it breaks your doors Say it’s all you can take better take some more Oh oh oh oh Waiting for a light that never comes The nights go on Waiting for a light that never comes I chase the sun Waiting for a light that never comes Oh oh oh Waiting for a light that never comes I’m waking up to ash and dust I wipe my brow and I sweat my rust I’m breathing in the chemicals I’m breaking in, shaping up, then checking out on the prison bus This is it, the apocalypse Whoa I’m waking up, I feel it in my bones Enough to make my systems blow Welcome to the new age, to the new age Welcome to the new age, to the new age Whoa, oh, oh, oh, oh whoa, oh, oh, oh, oh I’m radioactive, radioactive I raise my flags, dye my clothes It’s a revolution I suppose We’re painted red to fit right in Whoa I’m waking up, I feel it in my bones, enough to make my systems blow Welcome to the new age, to the new age Welcome to the new age, to the new age Whoa, oh,oh, oh, oh, Whoa 



VOLLEyBaLL 

Notre Dame takes on conference-foe Terps 
matches, four by at least a two-set 
By KATIE HEIT 

sports writer margin. it wasn’t until they took 
on georgia Tech on oct. 12 that 

with half a season completed they were able to get their offense and only two acc wins under moving, shutting out the yellow their belt, the irish will look to Jackets. The irish carried that turn their luck around today when momentum against miami the they take on maryland at 4 p.m. in following weekend, taking a 3-1 purcell pavilion. victory. 
The irish (8-13, 2-8 acc) The irish enter tonight on a dropped their first five acc three-match losing streak as they 
paid adverTisemenT 
try to find their place in the acc. irish coach debbie brown said she thinks maryland is another tough competitor from a stacked acc lineup. 
“we have a really strong con­ference,” brown said. “There’s matches [maryland has] played really well and matches where they’ve struggled. They played pitt [on wednesday in a 3-1 win] and played a very good match, so i think it will be very tough.” 
leading the Terrapins (12­11, 4-7) is junior outside hitter ashleigh crutcher, who had a strong performance against the panthers. 
“ashleigh crutcher had 24 kills and hit over .450, which is 
ND CROss COuNTRy 
phenomenal,” brown said. “she was a one-woman show and really carried a huge offensive load. she had 24 kills and the next player had seven. we can’t allow her or any other player to go out and have that many kills.” 
crutcher provided half of maryland’s 48 kills. in addition, she had 10 digs and hit .467. in notre dame’s last matchup, junior outside hitter Toni alugbue and junior middle blocker Jeni houser led the irish with 11 kills apiece. 
brown said her team has strug­gled because it has not consis­tently produced kills from game to game. 
“we’ve been working on our of­fense and our shots,” brown said. 

“we need to make smarter kills and we’ve practiced directing the ball to certain spots.” 
with the losses, brown said she’s been telling her team to focus only on the point at hand, not the struggles from the past, in order to get a win. 
“i think it’s one of those things where you have to take it a point at a time,” brown said. “if you do that, good things will happen and you’ll be thinking about the right things at the right time.” 
The irish take on acc opponent maryland this afternoon at 4 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Katie Heit at        kheit@nd.edu 
irish head to acc champs 

By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 

after a trying regular sea­son for the cross-country team, notre dame will look to begin anew in the postseason with this weekend’s acc conference championship. 
despite early season struggles and nagging health issues on the women’s side, irish coach Tim connelly said he believes his team is finally ready to pull it all together. 
“are we where i hoped we would be sept. 1? no,” connelly said. “but again, i think we set ourselves up to have a really good postseason. … going into the conference, i think we’ve got a realistic shot of being a top-three team there, go­ing to the regional meet i think we’ve got a great shot of being a team that moves on to the nation­al meet. 
“and i’ve think we’ve set our­selves up to be a team that runs really well and finishes high at the national meet. That’s what you use the regular season for.” 
on the men’s side, head coach Joe piane seemed equally relieved to have gotten through the regular season. 
“Those meets are over, but now the championship season starts,” piane said. “[The season] was okay 
— not great, but okay. we’ve done what we needed to do to get an at-large bid if we don’t automatically qualify, so that’s a positive. This weekend is a big help for us to get a bid, because there’s a few teams there that we need to beat.” 
in order to beat those teams, piane said he needs more produc­tion from the end of his lineup. 
“we’ve got to have a better five, six and seven,” piane said. “if we do that, we’re going to get much better, and i guarantee you that everyone can run better than they did at the wisconsin invitational. There’s no doubt in my mind. and if you ask them, they’ll say the same thing.” 
connelly said he isn’t look­ing for anything specific but that he wants his girls to be mentally tougher during the race. 
“it’s the whole, ‘when i get in a race and things get tough, how do i deal with that?’” connelly said.” i think we still need to grow a little bit as competitors and do a little better job at responding. That’s basically where we have to get better. if you want to be a really good cross-country runner, that’s where it comes. it’s that tough­ness, that deep-down mentality.” 
since this is notre dame’s first year in the acc, this is the first acc championship it will com­pete in. 

“it’s just a different set of re­ally good teams,” connelly said. “i don’t know if the actual running part changes a lot, but again, i’ve been saying all along, we basically traded one really good conference for another. i don’t think we’ve changed our approach. it’s a cham­pionship meet, so we’re going out there to be the best that we can be.” 
despite the increased competi­tion level the irish will run against, connelly said this conference meet might actually prove to be less daunting than several regular season meets, due to the smaller number of runners. 
“it’s a really big meet, but in terms of logistics, it’s probably a lot simpler than running at the notre dame invitational or running at wisconsin because now we’re running against 15 teams, as op­posed to 36,” connelly said. “so in terms of our competition, it’s not nearly as complicated to find who you want to beat and find your teammates.” 
piane said this race is an oppor­tunity for the irish to prove them­selves in the acc, rack up coveted at-large points and springboard the irish into a deep postseason run. 
“[The meet] is very important,” piane said. “it goes back to getting the at-large points, that’s very im­portant, and i think it’s something we’ve been looking for and getting ready for quite a long time. since the announcement that we’re go­ing to the acc, this is our first op­portunity, so it sure would be nice to start with a good showing. 
“i think it’s very important to [our runners], and if we do well there, then it would bode well for the regional meet and then, god willing, the nationals. everything builds towards this.” 
notre dame will race in the acc conference championship on Friday at 10 a.m. in Kernersville, 
n. c. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at                awilcox1@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDay, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’s sWIMMING aND DIVING 
paid adverTisemenT 

ND faces Purdue 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
Three weeks after their first competition, the irish dive into their acc season tonight with a dual meet against purdue at 5 p.m. 
irish coach brian barnes said the competition with purdue is only the first step in the team’s overall goals for the season. 
“purdue is not the focus of the year,” barnes said. “it’s the ncaa and the acc champi­onships. The challenge this weekend is to stay within the seasonal plan and to go down there and be competitive and try to win a meet.” 
To prepare for their season and their ultimate goal, barnes said the irish have been focus­ing on the small details, not just general training. 
“starts and turns,” barnes said. “i think we’re going to fin­ish better. we’ve been working on relay exchanges and starts and turns. … we’ve been talk­ing about details, and what it comes down to is details.” 
barnes said he believes the focus on details will allow the irish to finish every race strong and ultimately get them the win. 
The irish have a lot of experience leading them in their quest for the acc cham­pionships. Junior breaststroke emma reaney and junior free­style bridget casey serve as team captains. 
reaney is a two-time mono­gram winner and was an all­american in two events last season. after the first week­end of competition oct. 11­12, reaney was named acc swimmer of the week, the first acc honor for the irish. casey is also a two-time monogram winner and was named to the all-big east squad last season. 
“we have strong captains with emma reaney and bridget casey,” barnes said. “[senior backstroke] Kelly ryan has so much experience, and she’s competitive and great to have around. i think we’ll definitely see some leadership there.” 
barnes said he’s not just re­lying on his captains and his senior leaders to take charge against the boilermakers. 
“i’m expecting everybody to lead,” barnes said. “That’s what it comes down to.” 
The irish begin action tonight at 5 p.m. against purdue in west lafayette, ind. 
Contact Katie Heit at       kheit@nd.edu 





MEN’s sWIMMING aND DIVING 
irish prepare for ‘big challenge’ from boilers 

paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 


By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
coming off a close victory over air Force (134-128) during fall break, the irish look to jump right into the heart of their schedule when they travel to purdue to take on the boilermakers for a dual men’s/women’s meet. 
men’s head coach Tim welsh expects a hard-fought meet right from the get-go. 
“[purdue]’s always good,” welch said. “They’re always somewhere in the top 25. we’ve been racing very well against them in this pool [rolfs aquatic center], but every time we’ve gone down there, we’ve stubbed our toe. our mission tomorrow is to get off the bus and swim fast.” 
while noting that purdue is a strong team, welsh said he be­lieves there are several events in the meet where the irish have the edge. 
“Typically, the first time they show everything they’ve got it’s against us,” welsh said. “we’re pretty strong in the 200 breast­stroke, we’ll be strong in the 200 freestyle, we should be strong in the 200 butterfly. we’ll be solid in the [100 and 200] backstroke. They probably will outsprint us in the 50 [freestyle], maybe in the 100. we’re going with a 200 freestyle relay at the end of the meet, and we’re hoping that’s a really close race.” 
individually, the irish will rely on several strong upperclassmen to carry their events. Juniors Zach stephens, cameron miller and John williamson, as well as senior Frank dyer, were ncaa qualifiers in their individual events. during the win over air Force, dyer, stephens and miller were part of the 200-med­ley relay team that outpaced the rest of the field with a time of 1:30.88, beating the runner-up by more than two seconds. irish sophomore bogac ayhan round­ed out the quartet. 

while acknowledging the per­formances as exemplary, welsh said the rest of the team is mak­ing strides as well. 
“our freshman are doing a great job, and we want them to continue doing a great job,” welsh said. “but also we’re early in the season, so the iden­tity of the team is still to be determined. 
“and early in the season, we want to see this team and what’s going to happen, how its charac­ter is going to develop and what its identity is going to be. right now, the answer is we want ev­erybody [to succeed].” 
but ultimately, welsh said he has high hopes for the team’s performance in today’s meet against the boilermakers. 
“we think this’ll be a big struggle, and we want it that way,” welsh said. “we won’t get better if we don’t have a big challenge.” 
The irish take to the road on Friday to face off against the boilermakers at 5 p.m. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at       mginocch@nd.edu 

The observer | FRIDay, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’s INTERHaLL 

welsh Fam looks to hand ryan its first loss 
Pangborn hopes to stay undefeated against McGlinn; Badin searches for first win over PE 

undefeated regular season about this game,” Fisher said. against lewis on sunday, while “we’re looking for the win on the chicks (2-3) will strive to sunday.” reach the .500 mark. Fisher said junior offensive 
lewis, which is coming off lineman anne goodman would two consecutive wins, will try be a key player for the wild to spoil the purple weasels’ po-women this week, as she has tentially spotless season. lewis been all year long. senior captain and wide receiv-“she is the mvp of our sea-er colleen haller said she ex-son,” Fisher said. pects her team’s best game this The babes will look to leader-weekend. ship from senior safety and run­
“one of our strengths this ning back mary Toner, who will season has been being able to be playing in her final game. improve every game, whether “she has played four years of that’s completing more passes or [breen-phillips] football, and pulling flags quicker on defense,” i’m hoping she’ll have a big haller said. “hopefully, all those game,” mcnerney said. improvements can help us get breen-phillips and walsh will the win against [pasquerilla face each other sunday at 5 p.m. west].” at labar Fields. 
pasquerilla west (5-0) will be motivated as well. senior Contact Alexandra Lane at Pangborn vs. McGlinn playoff-bound pasquerilla east linebacker and captain breezi alane2@nd.edu 
By ALEX CARSON 

takes on badin. Toole said she expects for junior 
sports writer By JOSE FERNANDEZ sports writer The pyros (4-1) are currently colleen doyle and sophomore Cavanaugh vs. Farley 
ryan hall will look to secure a second in their division behind Katie Ferrara to make big plays 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
top seed in the playoffs and welsh after the break, an undefeat-an explosive offense led by ju-in this game, as well as in the sports writer Family will look to snag a playoff ed pangborn takes on a hungry nior quarterback macy mulhall. postseason. spot when the two teams collide mcglinn team that is looking senior captain and defensive “going into it, we’re going to both cavanaugh and Farley sunday. to deliver the first blow to the lineman caroline Kuse said play our game and keep focusing have their eyes set on sunday, 
The wildcats (4-0-1) are still phoxes’ record. great plays at the receiver posi-on what we’ve been focusing on, when the chaos (3-2) will duke it unbeaten on the year, and senior pangborn (4-0-1) went into the tion have been pivotal to the and hopefully, we’ll come out on out against the Finest (1-4) in the captain and offensive linesman break following a hard fought pyros’ success. top,” Toole said. last game of the regular season. andrea carlson said they see this game against ryan that resulted “we are really lucky that we Toole also said she is excited cavanaugh suffered a dis-game as an opportunity to grab in a tie. senior captain and offen-have tons of receivers,” Kuse to have the opportunity to try to appointing 28-6 loss against the no. 1 seed of their division. sive lineman mary Kate veselik said.  “They have appeared in the finish the season with a perfect pasquerilla east on oct. 13.  The 
“we want to put up a big num-said she saw a loss of focus going past few games with the stickiest record. chaos, however, look ahead to ber this game [to win a poten-into their last game and is expect-fingers.” “going undefeated would be this week’s matchup against tial tiebreaker with pangborn],” ing much more from the phoxes with a playoff seed clinched, fantastic,” Toole said. “it was one Farley with a new mindset, ac­carlson said. “we’re neck-and-this time around. Kuse said the pyros have their of the goals we had for this sea-cording to captain and senior neck with pangborn, and we’d “we need to focus on keeping eyes set on the future, noting that son. it would be great to reach middle linebacker meaghan like to get the top seed going into up with consistent play and what she will be mixing up personnel. that benchmark that we set from ayers. ayers said she knows im­the playoffs.” we know how to do,” veselik said. “since we have a postseason the beginning.” provements are necessary on 
on the other side of the ball, the “we have to take every game as if spot already … this one is really The showdown between the defense. whirlwinds (2-3) will try to sneak it was the most important game about fun,” Kuse said. chicks and the purple weasels “our first and foremost con-their way into the playoffs this of the season.” From the other sideline, the will occur at 6 p.m. at labar cern is our defense,” she said. “we weekend with a win over ryan. veselik said she had confidence bullfrogs (0-5) will be looking for Fields on sunday. really need to limit the number of 
“we’re hoping to show how in the two-quarterback system a strong finish to what has been a offensive scores, and by working much we’ve improved and play that the phoxes use with juniors winless season.  before the week-Contact Renee Griffin at                with the defense diligently, i be-our hearts out,” senior captain caitlin gargan and liz Quinn, long hiatus, sophomore captain rgriffi6@nd.edu lieve we can accomplish that.” and linebacker carissa henke and in their ability to carry the and quarterback Kristina Techar after a 19-7 loss to lyons, senior said. “hopefully, we can go out team. said the team worked on offen-Breen-Phillips vs. Walsh receiver lauren ladowski said there and get the win and make mcglinn (2-3), on the other sive schemes. the Finest go into their last game 
By ALEXANDRA LANE 

the playoffs.” hand, suffered a loss before fall “before break, we really looked sports writer of the season hoping to leave it 
ryan’s success this year has break and is looking to right the to develop our option plays a lit-all out on the field. ladowski also come on both sides of the ball. ship and make a final push for the tle bit more,” Techar said. both breen-phillips and walsh said Farley plans to mix up their The wildcats average 28.4 points playoffs. senior captain and re-badin will look to build upon head into their game sunday game plan to throw the chaos off per game offensively and have ceiver Tara crown said she urged its lone touchdown from last looking to end the season on a balance. only given up 13 all season. her team to have a short memory. game, a catch and run by fresh-positive note. “i figured since this is our last carlson attributed their strong “we need to be focused and man running back and receiver The babes (0-5) have yet to re-game, i want everyone to enjoy season to maintaining good forget about what happened,” melange gavin. after a collision cord a victory so far this season, it and have fun,” ladowski said. communication. crown said. “we need to start earlier in the season sidelined but senior captain and lineback-“we’re going to try putting play­
“one of the best things we have fresh and match pangborn’s ath-Techar and gavin with concus-er monica mcnerney said she ers in various positions, as well as going for us is our communica-leticism in every play.” sions, Techar said the duo is thinks they can change that this plan on devising some intricate tion,” carlson said. “our offense much like pangborn, the ready to put forward a strong week. plays to keep cavanaugh on their and defense are both really good shamrocks will rely on their quar-performance in their last game. “with a lot of new freshmen toes.” with reading the play.” terback, sophomore Katherine “i am looking to see [gavin] on the team, we have struggled regardless of Farley’s adjust-
welsh Family has seen strong petrovich, to make big plays and have a really great last game after this season, but it has been a ments, ayers said the chaos are games from its defense through-lead the charge, crown said. all the practice we have had this learning process,” mcnerney confident in junior quarterback out the year, giving up only 13 The phoxes and shamrocks year,” Techar said. said. “i am hoping everything sam Flores. points per game. will face off sunday at 4 p.m. at The bullfrogs and pyros clash we have been practicing will “when [Flores] puts in the ef­
“our defense has really stepped labar Fields. sunday at 6 p.m. at labar Fields. come together and lead to a win fort, the rest of the team puts in up this season,” henke said. on sunday.” all their effort as well,” ayers said. “we’ve had players playing differ-Contact Jose Fernandez at        Contact Matt Garcia at             The wild women (1-4) are also “if we can keep up that kind of ent positions, and it’s been great jfernan9@nd.edu mgarci15@nd.edu looking to improve their record momentum, i have no doubt we’ll to see them come along.” this week, junior captain and play our best.” 
ryan and welsh Family will Pasquerilla East vs. Badin Pasquerilla West vs. Lewis receiver said maggie Fisher said. The chaos and Finest will take to the field at labar Fields she said she is confident walsh clash at 5 p.m. at labar Fields on 
By MATT GARCIA By RENEE GRIFFIN 

this sunday at 4 p.m. sports writer sports writer will end the season on a high sunday. 
note. Contact Alex Carson at              Two teams with opposite for-pasquerilla west will have “i think we have improved a Contact Rebecca Rogalski at acarson1@nd.edu tunes will meet sunday when a chance to complete an lot, and i am really optimistic rrogalsk@nd.edu 


MEN’s INTERHaLL 

West Quad rivalry highlights final week 
Stanford and Keenan battle for chapel; St. Edward’s seeks to give Sorin ‘comeuppance’ 
stanford junior captain and of-
By CORNELIUS McGRATH 
fensive and defensive lineman ruben carrion said he expects 

o’neill faces Keough in a cru-the griffins (0-3-0) to put up a cial game sunday with huge im-hard fight against the undefeated plications for both sides’ playoff Knights (3-0-0). aspirations. “we realize that playoffs may 
Keough (2-1) will make be out of the picture  . . . but we’re the playoffs with a win, and definitely going out to try to win,” Kangaroos senior captain and carrion said. “if we get the win, quarterback seamus donegan we can prove that we are a tough said he expects a big perfor-team, even though our record may mance, especially from his de-not show it.” fense, which has only given up The griffins hope to increase seven points this season. their offensive consistency be­
“we are getting better every fore sunday’s game, carrion said. single week, so i feel that our Junior quarterback ryan prom record does not really reflect leads stanford’s offense. our true ability on the field,” riche said the Knights also hope donegan said. “our defense has to make minor adjustments to been our greatest asset, and i their offense before the battle of hope they can remain strong.” the chapel. 
although Keough could still “we’re undefeated, but we still make the playoffs if it loses have a lot of things to work on,” leader.” he remains confident. ramblers and the highlanders this weekend, donegan said riche said. “we’re fine-tuning The teams will kick off sunday “our division is by far the best, will take place sunday at 2 p.m. at he does not want it to affect the our offense so that when playoffs at 3 p.m. at riehle Fields as they so as long as we win, i think we riehle fields. Kangaroos’ play. come, we’re ready for it.” fight to finish their seasons with deserve a playoff spot,” Taiclet 
“although there are wild-card sophomore patrick corry plays a win. said. “The whole team is pre-Contact Manny De Jesus at implications if we were to lose, as quarterback for Keenan. he will pared to leave it all out on the mdejesus@nd.edu far as i am concerned, winning lead the Knights’ offense when Contact Josh Dulany at                 field on sunday.” this weekend is our only option,” Keenan takes on stanford on jdulany@nd.edu morrissey and Knott will Carroll vs. Zahm donegan said. sunday at 1 p.m. square off sunday at 2 p.m. at 
sports writer 

By ANDREW ROBINSON 
at the same time, o’neill (1-Morrissey vs. Knott riehle Fields. sports writer 
2) looks to snatch a victory from Contact Christina Kochanski 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON the Kangaroos and qualify for at ckochans@nd.edu sports writer Contact Brian Plamondon at after a two-week break, the the playoffs through a wild-card bplamond@nd.edu Zahm and carroll squads pre­pick. st. Edward’s vs. sorin both morrissey and Knott pare to return to action as they “The team knows that there is need a victory and a siegfried Duncan vs. siegfried face off in the final weekend of 
By JOSH DULANY 

something really special to play loss to have a chance at the play-regular season games sunday. 
sports writer By MANNY DE JESUS for this weekend, and i hope that offs as they battle sunday. sports writer The Zahmbies (0-3) look to put the chance of being in playoffs sorin and st. edward’s are pre-The manor (1-2) hope to re-a tally in the win column after pushes our players to the next pared to end the season with a bound after a loss to alumni in the regular-season finale, two consecutive shutout losses level,” o’neill junior captain and win sunday. while the Juggerknott squad is duncan takes on siegfried in the to sorin and Fisher. running back donghoon lee The otters (1-1-1) look to coming off their first win of the teams’ first matchup in two years. “it would be really nice to get said. bounce back from a close loss to season. last year, the highlanders (0-3) a win this week,” senior captain although the angry mob has carroll, and the gentlemen (1-2) with a playoff berth still pos-and the ramblers (2-1) were set Joseph rice said. “That’s what not played for three weeks, lee will try to finish strong after con-sible, manor junior captain and to play in the season finale, but we’re shooting for.” said he feels the long break will secutive losses. lineman patrick valencia said duncan was forced to forfeit the despite its record, rice said actually have a positive impact For st. edward’s, the desire for his team has taken major strides game. Zahm is keeping a positive at-on the team, especially with the a victory goes beyond the imme-and showed extra intensity in “we’re motivated to play titude and feels good about its return of senior quarterback diate goals of this season. practice. duncan, especially since we chances against the vermin brandon boldt. “They’ve beaten us the last “if everybody knows what they could not play them last year,” (2-0-1). “The reason we lost our last two seasons, and we would are supposed to do, the points senior captain and lineman Jack “we’re just going to do the best game is because we simply didn’t love to give them their comeup-will follow,” valencia said. “last moore said. “[not playing the we can to keep playing hard and have enough players,” lee said. pance,” senior captain and safe-game we shot ourselves in the game] killed our momentum last put some points on the board,” “now that most of the exams ty andrew blonigan said. foot with turnovers. if we execute year, which led to a playoff loss in he said. “i think we’re hitting our are over, our team will be back on the other side, despite the better, we will limit mistakes.” our next game.” stride right about now.” to full strength and firing on all recent loss, sorin sophomore valencia pointed to junior The ramblers will focus their The vermin hope to pick up cylinders.” captain, receiver and safety Jake quarterback ryan lindquist as a dominant running attack with some momentum as the play-with a playoff spot and rival-yurek said he likes his team’s game-changer because of his ac-freshman running backs lucas offs approach, senior co-captain ry bragging rights on the line, attitude. curacy and mobility. he said he Joseph and dan verzuh taking mike russell said. o’neill and Keough square off “we are going in feeling good, believes lindquist, when given the handoffs, moore said. he “The important thing for us is sunday at riehle Fields at 1 p.m. working hard and on an up-time, can be a big-play machine said his team is optimistic about to not let up on energy because swing,” yurek said. “we’ll be against the Juggerknotts. its offense leading it past the it’s been such a long time since Contact Cornelius McGrath at looking to air it out, put up some Knott (1-2) has finally turned highlanders and to a deep playoff we’ve played,” he said. cmcgrat2@nd.edu points and end the season on a the corner on offense, sopho-run. russell said carroll has been good note.” more receiver and cornerback while siegfried has its eyes on a roll since its opening-week stanford vs. Keenan yurek said to watch for big Jack Taiclet said. set on the playoffs, duncan still tie with Fisher. plays from the tandem of sopho-“we made some route and per-hopes to win its first game of the “i’ve been impressed,” russell 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 

sports writer more running back John pearl sonnel changes, which contrib-season. said. “our defense has played re-and junior quarterback pat uted to our offensive firepower “[our goal] is to finish strong ally well, and i think we’ve also 
stanford and Keenan will face power. sophomore outside line-against duncan,” Taiclet said. on a strong note,” highlanders ju-done a good job limiting turn­off sunday in a game dubbed by backer galvin loughran will an-“our running game has been nior captain and center alan Keck overs since the first game.” the two teams as the battle of the chor the otters defensively. solid all year, and now with our said. “we’re hoping to do our best russell said the team is fo­chapel. The otters will be up against passing attack working, we’re go-to carry some momentum into cused on maintaining intensity 
“we share a building with [the an eager st. edwards side confi-ing to be hard to stop.” next season.” after halftime, which has been griffins] and there’s a chapel in be-dent in its talent, blonigan said. The team looks for continued The highlanders worked on im-one of the few concerns for the tween our dorms,” Keenan senior “we are extremely pumped chemistry from its two most proving their pass defense, which vermin. captain and receiver Jeremy riche and optimistic,” blonigan said. potent offensive weapons, ju-gave up multiple passing touch-The Zahmbies and the vermin said. “whichever team ends up “we have a mad dog in [junior nior quarterback david Taiclet downs in their last matchup, Keck play sunday at 3 p.m. at riehle winning this game gets their name middle linebacker] brendan and sophomore receiver griffin said. offensively, duncan is going Fields. listed first on the chapel. it’s been Flynn, and [senior] quarterback carroll. to rely heavily on junior running the Keenan chapel for the last two paul rodriguez comes to battle while on the bubble regarding back eric Krakowiak. Contact Andrew Robinson at years.” every game and is our spiritual the playoff picture, Taiclet said This matchup between the arobins6@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDay, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
Forest’s talent and said the demon deacons and the irish play similar styles of soccer. 
“They’re a very good team,” clark said. “They’ve got some of the best players in collegiate soc­cer. They play a very controlled game, but they can mix it up. They’ve got players who can han­dle the ball, so they’re not terribly unlike ourselves in that respect.” 
The irish have controlled time-of-possession throughout the season and have limited op­ponents to just 126 shots, a little more than half of notre dame’s total. senior goalkeeper patrick wall has surrendered .66 goals per game, while playing every minute for the irish. 
notre dame last played oct. 26 and suffered its first loss of the season, 2-0 against then-no. 23 virginia at alumni stadium. clark said the irish studied game tape and will be more focused 
Hockey 
conTinued From page 20 
the last couple of years, but i think that he’s trying to rebuild that. … This early in the season, every [team] thinks [it’s] winning the national championship.” 
The irish will face vermont with­out sophomore forward Thomas dipauli and junior defenseman eric Johnson, who were both injured in notre dame’s split at minnesota­duluth last weekend. 
notre dame will also have the difficulty of facing a vermont team that’s both playing for the first time at home this season and hosting a celebration of the program’s 50th 
W soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
irish attack kept heavy pressure on the seminole defense, unleash­ing 15 shots from there on out, in­cluding a near miss by freshman midfielder morgan andrews that ricocheted off the crossbar. 
on defense, the irish kept the Florida state attack at bay for most of the second half. despite eight corners and multiple throw-ins that made it into the box, little was able to break up any potential shots on goal. 
“[little] was very good tonight,” waldrum said. “it seemed like ev­ery time they had a throw-in, it was in the box, and i think she coped with that, and the corners, really well.” 
in the end, though, the seminoles finally evened the score on bakowska-mathews’s blast from 20 yards out and ended the game on her header in the second period of overtime. 
“i don’t think there was much [little] could have done on either goal,” waldrum said “one was through a crowd and she couldn’t even see it and the other was from only two or three yards off the line.” 
still, waldrum said his team needs to focus and close games bet­ter as it heads into the postseason. 
against wake Forest. 
“after every game whether we win, tie or lose, we tape … and try to improve on it,” clark said. “That’s one of our goals. we want to make an improvement every week of the season. i think we’ve done a fairly good job of this. after the last game, we’re very focused.” 
notre dame will make im­provements, but don’t expect a radically different irish team to take the field Friday, clark said. 
“we stick to our own game plan,” clark said. “it’s a bit like playing ourselves in some respect, obviously with different players. we’ve just got to play well. we’ve got to play our game and execute well. i think it will be a good game with a good crowd there, so it’ll be a fun situation for us.” 
notre dame and wake Forest face off in an acc showdown saturday at 7 p.m. at spry stadium in winston-salem. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
anniversary this weekend. 
“it doesn’t matter who we were going to play, they’re going to be [pumped] up for us. That’s just the way things are going to be all the time,” Jackson said. “i’m sure most buildings are excited to have notre dame come in … and they’re going to be looking at where we’re ranked, so you go in with a big target and be prepared to face the opponent’s very best.” 
The irish open hockey east play tonight in burlington, vt., against vermont at 7:05 p.m. The second game of the series is scheduled for saturday at 4:30 p.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at                 sgans@nd.edu 
“we’ve lost six games, and five of them have come in overtime or with [less than five] minutes to go,” waldrum said. “That completely changes the outlook of your team if you at least get a tie in those games. we have got to close games better, and we have to score more than one goal a game. The team has to focus for the full 90 minutes. we let one get away today.” 
with the win, the seminoles clinch the no. 2 seed in the acc tournament. meanwhile, notre dame will travel to blacksburg, va., to take on virginia Tech in the quar­terfinals of the acc tournament. The irish played the hokies earlier this year, losing 1-0 on a goal in the final four minutes. on sunday, they will look to avenge that loss. 
“it’s tournament time, and if you don’t win, you’re out,” waldrum said. “There are no more second chances. The main thing is putting this loss behind us so we can go to virginia Tech and get back a game we lost early in the year to a team that i think we’re better than. we have to go there and produce. it’s all on us at this point.” 
The irish begin the acc tourna­ment sunday at 1 p.m. in blacksburg, va., against virginia Tech. 
Contact Greg Hadley at            ghadley@nd.edu 
M BBall 
conTinued From page 20 

i think that should help us. i’d like to get those two guys go­ing … because i think it’s im­portant. we are going to need them.” 
if Knight does indeed take the court tonight, it will be just in time to take on a Tusculum squad pegged to finish ninth out of twelve teams in the sac by confer­ence coaches. The team from rock hill, s.c., returns four starters and 12 letter winners 
irish sophomore cam biedscheid will not play to­night while he and the irish coaching staff continue to consider a redshirt season for the 6-foot-7, 186-pounder who averaged 6.2 points-per­game and appeared in all 34 contests last season. 
“i think we are going to talk again on Friday,” brey said. “his mom will be in town, and we will sit down and talk about it. i think, certainly, we’ll make a final decision monday or Tuesday. we’ll have to know as we prepare for nov. 8. he just can’t play in any exhibitions if we want to save the year [of eligibility]. so he’s practicing with us, he’s doing all the other stuff. … i think it’s a matter of weighing a lot of different things. it’ll be good to have everybody in my office and we can talk face-to-face.” 
notre dame and Tusculum tip off at 9 p.m. in the purcell pavilion. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at     jmonardo@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
from last year’s 6-21 squad, including sophomore for­ward Keith Jumper, last year’s sac Freshman of the year. senior guard addison Flynn also returns for Tusculum after leading the pioneers in scoring with 12.7 points-per­game last year. 
The second exhibition con­test offers notre dame anoth­er chance to fine-tune a few things before beginning the regular season nov. 8 with a home game against miami (ohio). 
“The main thing is to stay in character on the offensive end of the floor and continue that efficiency. Then on the defensive end, i would add then the rebounding part,” brey said. “can we be an im­proved rebounding team and spread it amongst a bunch of guys? i’m not looking for a guy to get 15 like [former irish forward Jack] cooley, but can we get a couple guys with seven?” 


paid adverTisemenT 



CROssWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 29 Digress 62 Classic 1740 1 Part of a 32 Word appearing 
romance metaphorical more than 20 subtitled “Virtue ladder Rewarded”
times on Iran’s 4 Any of the flag 63 Contests 
Galápagos 33 Like some music 64 Kind of dye8 Color 65 To some extent 
34 ___ meteorclassification 

66 Architect quality Saarinen 
shower 

36 Muscle cramps,
14 Italian article 67 Shiny, say 
e.g.
15 “Angels From 40 Coveredthe Realms of 
DOWN

Glory,” e.g. 44 Capital on the 1 ___-eared
Gulf of Guinea 
16 Like 2 Out, in a waypsychopaths, 45 What a mayor 3 Certain jazz clubsay wins, usually improvisation17 Cellphone 49 Engage in some 4 Dopefeature, for short pillow talk 5 To some extent 18 Sports team 50 Orion ___ 6 48-Downmanagement 51 French word followergroup 

with a circumflex 
7 Movement20 “You missed 52 Play (with) founded by___” Yasser Arafat 22 Suffix with diet 53 What portableApple products 8 Age calculation 23 “... boy ___ at a vet clinicrungirl?” 

9 Medical grp. 

24 Language for a 54 It can be found in runes 10 ___ Swanson,37-Down “Parks and25 Some navels 56 Toggle … or a Recreation”
28 California’s ___ hint to 18-, 29-bossPadres National 
and 45-Across? 
11 13-Down athleteForest 60 Kitten call 
12 Diacritical mark 13 See 11-Down 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
19 Popular corn
chip, informally 21 Expiation 24 Even in Paris? 26 Mixed martial 
arts org. 
27 Lose one’s patience with,maybe 
30 Many a Brownsfan 31 Epitome ofslowness 
35 “This may becontroversial, but …” 
37 Arthur Conan Doyle, e.g. 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
24  25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  
32  33  
34  35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

Puzzle by Joel Fagliano 
38 “Batman” villain 45 Exotic aquarium 48 6-Down in a cryogenic specimens preceder
suit 46 Speechwriter 55 Very 
39 Cry at home, 
who coined the

maybe 57 Small number
phrase “Read
41 “America’s my lips: no new 58 Fourth-largestfavorite active taxes” state inpro athlete,” per population: Abbr. 

a 2012 ESPN 47 Classical poll musician whose 59 N.H.L. 42 Slippery career has had 
impossibility

43 Singer Lana ___ its ups andRey downs? 61 “That’s crazy!” 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
CONTROLLED CHaOs | hillary mangiaForTe 
suDOKu | The mepham group 



HIGHLy PuNLIKELy  | chrisTopher brucKer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROsCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: piper perabo, 37; mike o’malley, 47; dermot mulroney, 50; peter Jackson, 52. 
Happy Birthday: happy birthday: new beginnings will allow you to show how diverse and capable you can be. embrace new opportunities and develop skills that will enable you to expand your interests and your chances to make a difference to your community or a cause. Taking a unique approach to whatever you are asked to do will show your leadership ability. strive for perfection. your numbers are 2, 9, 15, 22, 26, 38, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): make a move. do what makes you happy. realize that the criticism you receive is due to jealousy or control. rise above negativity and step into the spotlight where you belong. stop doing for others what you should be doing for your own benefit. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): what you do in collaboration with others will turn out well. share your thoughts and make suggestions, but don’t push what you want on others. larger quarters or making improvements to your home life will add to your security. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): stick to your word and to a set budget. an important relationship will help you realize what’s important and how you should move forward emotionally. a financial situation, contract or legal concern should be addressed and put to rest. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Jump up and take part. you have plenty to offer and the connections you make will be to your advantage. don’t worry about what everyone else is doing -- focus on your goals and the people you meet who can contribute positively.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): a challenge can be expected. you’ll have to search for uncon­ventional ways to make your plans work. socializing and entertaining will result in joining a creative group that can enlighten you about a personal situation you face.  



VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): make plans that please friends, relatives or people in your community. your suggestions will be well-received and make a difference. don’t let an emotional situation cost you financially or professionally. ease stress by participating in activities that matter.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): listen intently to what’s being offered. make sure you un­derstand what’s expected of you. an objective point of view should not come across as being inconsistent. an emotional incident is likely to hinder your productivity. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): greater involvement with people you have worked with or have similar interests to will lead to a chance to take part in a venture that can help improve your skills, knowledge and business connections. lean toward obscure interests and people. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): listen attentively to what others say. observation and showing concern will allow you to hide your true feelings and avoid the conse­quence of someone trying to coerce you into an argument. stick close to home and work on personal changes. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): look for any way to show off what you have to offer. present, promote and send out resumes. Focus on you and what you can do to raise your profile and convince others to believe in you. an unusual approach will grab interest.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you are best to consider suggestions being made, but don’t be afraid to make small alterations that will better suit your situation and your needs. The changes you make will strike an emotional chord with someone you’ve known for a long time. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): go over your personal papers, contracts, settlements and financial matters and you’ll find a way to reestablish contact with someone who has something you want. expand your interests and head toward options that are unique and entertaining. 


JuMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by David L. Hoyt and Jeff Knurek 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
GIROR  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
SLOFS  

 
 
 
 
 

WOMEDA  

 
 
 
 
 
 

GRODAN  

 
 
 
 
 
 


Print your “ 


” 
answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: WATCH DROLL ROTATE REBUKEYesterday’s 
Answer: Kids on Halloween are often — TREATED WELL 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDay, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’s sOCCER 

ND plays for first place in ACC 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
First place in the acc will be on the line when the no. 2 irish take on no. 12 wake Forest on saturday in winston-salem, n.c. 
The demon deacons (8-3-5, 5-0-4) currently sit atop the acc with 19 points. The irish (8-1-5, 5-1-3) trail wake Forest in sec­ond place by two points and have two conference games left, first against the demon deacons and then against pitt on nov. 8. 
irish coach bobby clark said notre dame will face top-notch competition in wake Forest, but the irish need to win. 
“This is a huge game,” clark said. “wake Forest is leading the league. we’re one point behind them, and if we can beat them, then we will be two points up with two games to go. it’s not the league decider, but it’s com­ing close to it. … if we want to win the acc, we need to win this game. The game doesn’t get big­ger than this. obviously, since wake Forest is at the top of the league at the moment, they’re a very good team.” 
both sides are capable of scor­ing and play stingy defense. The demon deacons have outscored opponents 30 to 16 this season, while notre dame has outscored opponents 22 to 10. wake Forest owns the edge in shot attempts as well, with 258 compared to 244 for the irish. 
demon deacons junior for­ward sean okoli (7), senior midfielder and forward luca gimenez (6) and senior forward andy lubahn (5) lead wake Forest in goals. okoli has scored the third-most goals in the acc this season. redshirt freshman goalkeeper alec Ferrell and sophomore goalkeeper andrew harris have combined to allow only .94 goals per game. 
clark complimented wake 
see m soccer PaGE 18 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 

with less than four minutes left in regulation, things were look­ing good for no. 10 notre dame. up 1-0 at no. 3 Florida state, it ap­peared as though the irish (11-6-1, 7-5-1 acc) would end the regular season on a high note and head into the acc tournament with a three-game win-streak. 
Then, in the 88th minute, Fsu junior forward marta bakowska­mathews launched a shot into the upper-right corner of the net, past irish freshman goalkeeper Kaela little, forcing overtime. 
with momentum heading into the extra period, the seminoles (15-1-3, 10-1-2) put heavy pres­sure on the irish defense. Finally, the Florida state offense broke through in the 105th minute when junior defender megan campbell sent a long cross into the box that a diving bakowska­mathews headed past little, giv­ing the seminoles the 2-1 victory. 
Though the loss did not have an impact on notre dame’s final seeding in the acc tournament, irish coach randy waldrum said 
ND WOMEN’s sOCCER | Florida sTaTe 2, noTre dame 1 
notre dame falls to noles 

he was still disappointed with the result. 
“we wanted to win, waldrum said. “we needed to win. it would have helped us out a lot. we’re still vying for a good seed in the ncaa tournament, so it’s disappoint­ing, especially when the team played so well.” 
The seminoles challenged little and the irish backline early, taking four shots in the open­ing 25 minutes to notre dame’s one. but immediately after com­ing off the bench, notre dame sophomore forward anna maria gilbertson turned the tide for the irish with a hard bending shot into the upper corner of the net to give notre dame a 1-0 lead in the 28th minute. 
“anna maria probably had one of her better games of the year,” waldrum said. “The goal she scored was world-class. she defended well and attacked well, too.” 
For the rest of the game, the 
see w soccer PaGE 18 
MEN’s BasKETBaLL 

irish prepare for pioneers 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
associate sports editor 
after rolling to a comfort­able victory in its exhibition opener earlier in the week, notre dame will close out its preseason schedule by wel­coming in Tusculum tonight. 
The irish defeated indianapolis, 95-69, on monday while exhibiting some of the traits that irish coach mike brey said can be corner­stones of his team’s success this season. 
“i think we can always rely on our unselfishness and our ability to pass,” brey said. “i mean, we are really good with the ball, and that showed up the other night. our offensive efficiency is going to be key for us. i like how we’ve moved together defensively. i mean, we play defensively like the older guys do because they’ve played a lot together. we are going to have to play some zone this year, and i think that’s going to be good to us.” 
notre dame assisted on 29 of its 35 baskets in the win, while sophomore forward austin burgett and senior forward garrick sherman combined to make 14 of 19 attempts. burgett earned a spot in the starting lineup following injuries to graduate student forward Tom Knight and sophomore for­wards eric Katenda and Zach auguste. Katenda is expected to miss several weeks with a knee injury, and auguste is in the middle of a return from a broken hand suffered oct. 10, but brey said he expects Knight to return tonight. 
“we played really small the 

HOCKEy 

Icers debut in Hockey East 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
it’s been in the cards since oct. 11, 2011. and tonight, it will reach fruition. 
notre dame will play its first ever game in its new confer­ence: hockey east. 
The no. 2 irish (5-1-0) travel to vermont for a two-game series tonight and saturday in their first contests since 2002. The meetings between notre dame and the catamounts (1-1-1) will be just the third and fourth games, respectively, between the programs. 
They also mark a new era of irish hockey, as notre dame will open play in a new league after a 21-year run in the now-disband­ed ccha. 
“it seems like we’re playing another non-conference series,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “as time goes on, that will change. when you’re accustomed to playing lake superior, bowling green and michigan all these years, and then all of a sudden now you’re playing vermont, it is a little different.” 
irish junior defenseman robbie russo noted each league game is more critical this season than in previous years, because there are only 20. notre dame played 28 regular season ccha games a year ago. 
russo said he’s excited to be part of notre dame hockey history. 
“it’s kind of cool to be a part of the first ever hockey east game at notre dame,” he said. “i think guys will realize that when they’re playing in it [the game] and just noticing it will be a pretty cool experience.” 
The catamounts opened their season with a series at north dakota on oct. 11 and 12 in which vermont lost the first game before earning a tie in the second. The catamounts did not play again until saturday, when they defeated penn state 5-2 in philadelphia. vermont senior forward chris mccarthy, who led the team in goals, assists and points a year ago, fronts the catamount attack. 
Jackson said vermont’s lack of games has given it more time to practice and prepare earlier in the season. 
“Kevin sneddon’s a good young coach,” Jackson said. “They haven’t had great teams in 
see hocKey PaGE 18 
other night,” he said. “it’ll be good to have Tom Knight back. we should have him back Friday. he should be in there a lot. and then Zach [auguste] joins us in practice saturday. obviously, when you are play­ing a little bigger as we have at times, you rebound better. so 
see m bball PaGE 18 






