ThE INdEPENdENT NEWSPAPER SERVINg NOTRE dAME ANd SAINT MARy’S 



‘A sign of strength’ 
Students seek assistance for mental illness with counseling center and campus groups 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Managing Editor 
Editor’s note: This is the final installment in a three-part series discussing mental health at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s in recognition of national Mental Illness Awareness Week. 
Last spring, senior Liam Jackson said he felt stressed like never before as he studied for the MCAT, managed a full course load and prepared to move from Keough hall to Stanford hall to be a resident assistant (RA) this school year. 
Worried he was burdening his friends by constantly talking about his exams and his stress, Jackson sought professional help for the first time at the university Counseling Center (uCC). 
Jackson said he visited the uCC every week for a one-hour meet­ing in which he “tried to pinpoint all his different stressors.” 
“Even just talking alone was extremely helpful,” he said. “[My counselor] was a really good lis­tener and good resource.” 
Although he said he felt ner­vous to tell his friends about his visits to the uCC, Jackson said they encouraged him to con­tinue his sessions because they considered his decision a sign of maturity. After two months, Jackson said he “felt better and accomplished for seeking help” and stopped meeting with his counselor. 
Jackson said Notre dame students might hesitate before seeking help for stress relief and other mental health issues be­cause they are “extremely ac­complished people” and worry it might incorrectly be seen as “a sign of weakness.” he said his case demonstrates that un­derclassmen shouldn’t assume upperclassmen “have it all to­gether” and that going to the uCC is a sign of inadequacy or immaturity. 
“This happened to me last semester, not when I was a freshman,” Jackson said. “I was already chosen to be an RA, and this was what I was going through.” 
Jackson said the counseling 
see MINd PAGE 4 

Courtesy of University Archives 
The self-deemed ‘social worker for Student Affairs,’ Ann Whitall, connects students with mental health services on campus. 



Justice conveys Court’s modern role 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Though the federal govern­ment has shut down, Notre dame students studying in Washington, d.C. listened to Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy speak about the Court’s role in contemporary 
u.S. politics at a university of California, d.C. (uCdC) event Monday. 
Before the event, students submitted questions for Kennedy via a google doc for pre-approval by the planning committee. Students were told they would be able to ask un­scripted questions later in the program if the committee did not select their submissions. 

Junior Nicole Sganga said time constraints prevented the Notre dame students from asking a question, though she wanted to ask him about civic discourse in the united States. 
“I was aching to ask Justice Kennedy his position on the current state of civic discourse,” she said. “Luckily, the moderator sneaked in a question regarding the current state of American politics toward the end of the Q & A. Justice Kennedy responded with an eloquent plea for a high­er discourse founded on fact and reason [addressed to] his counterparts in the executive and legislative branches.” 
Junior Szymon Barnas said he hoped to ask Kennedy to elaborate on his description of the Supreme Court’s place in contemporary u.S. politics. 

“Justice Kennedy has been on the speaking circuit the past couple of weeks and has com­mented many times on the Supreme Court becoming an arena to settle the hot-button political issues of the day be­cause of our dysfunctional de­mocracy,” Barnas said. “As I read about the cases on the docket for this upcoming Supreme Court term regarding issues like 
see JuSTICE PAGE 4 


University investments pay off 
“had we just earned the [same as the] u.S. stock market over those 25 years, we’d would be at about $4.6 billion. 
“We’re about $3.6 or $3.7 bil­lion more in endowment than we would have been had we just invested in the u.S. market and had just had an index spot. So we substantially outperformed the S&P over that period of time.” 
The investment office is more concerned with long-term per­formance than annual returns, 
see ENdOWMENT PAGE 3 

‘Mind’ week begins 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
News Writer 
Student government leaders have big plans this week for the first ever “Irish State of Mind” week promoting mental health awareness at Notre dame. 
The town hall meeting at Washington hall on Monday evening marked the start of the “Irish State of Mind” week. Student body president Alex Coccia said “Irish State of Mind” is about caring for fellow members of the Notre dame community. 
“The ‘Irish State of Mind’ is the recognition that we take care of our brothers and sisters,” Coccia said. “We work together to create a culture where we aren’t afraid to ask for help when we need it. Because we all have moments in our lives when we need someone to talk to.” 
The meeting offered a multi­tude of views on mental health at Notre dame from professors, students, Rec Sports, Student 
see TOWN hALL PAGE 7 


By ALEX CAO 
News Writer 
Notre dame’s endowment returned 11.8 percent during the previous fiscal year and hit the $8.3 billion mark at the end of June, vice president and Chief Investment Officer Scott Malpass said. 
Malpass, a 1984 Notre dame alumnus, said the fund’s perfor­mance compares favorably to the u.S. stock market. 
“I’ve been here 25 years ... [and] our endowment pool is about $8.4 billion now,” he said. 


NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 9 SCENE PAGE 10 MEN’S SOCCER PAGE 20 FOOTBALL PAGE 20 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
If you could keep a pet in your dorm room what would it be? 

Benny Richmond 


Connor Malone 
freshman 

junior 
Fisher hall 

O’Neill hall 
“Snakes.” 

“A turtle.” 
Brooke Turrell 


Kate Hermeling 
junior 

sophomore 
Walsh hall 

Walsh hall 
“A hedgehog.” 

“An owl.” 
Caroline Heilmann 


Matthew Munro 
senior 

freshman 
Pangborn hall 

duncan hall 
“A fluffy little yappy dog.” 

“Ben Affleck.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Christian Myers greg hadley Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Rebecca O’Neil Jack hefferon Abi hoverman Cole Schietinger 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Sara Shoemake Allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Wellness Wednesday Film: “Elena” (2011) Mobile Summit Domer Run VisionWalk 
John Ning Tabitha Ricketts 
LaFortune Student DeBartolo Performing Eck Hall of Law and Legends Irish Green Center Arts Center Morris Inn 9 a.m.-11:30 a.m. 12 p.m.-3:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 7 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 9 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Choose from 6-mile Proceeds benefit the 
Corrections 

Learn how to balance Russian film part of Mobile technology and and 3-mile runs or a Foundation Fighting 
The Observer regards itself as technology usage. Nanovic Film Series. Notre Dame. 2-mile family walk. Blindness. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Concert: Jory Vinikour Dialogue and Men’s and Women’s Hot 8 Brass Band Messe de Nostre Dame 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
DeBartolo Performing Discussion: “Walmart Swimming and Diving DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center and Beyond” Rolfs Aquatic Center Arts Center Arts Center 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Hesburgh Library 5 p.m.-8 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Grammy-nominated 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. 49th annual Dennis Concert of New Performed by the Notre 
we can correct our error. 

harpsichordist. Free and open to public. Stark relays. Orleans street music. Dame Medieval Quartet. 


Lecturer shares experience of mental illness 
young adults is unintentional in­juries, which claims 120,000 lives each year. Among these 33,000 are caused by car accidents and 30,000 by accidental falls and ac­cidental poisonings, she said. 
hersh said despite the frequen­cy with which they occur, suicide may not be taken as seriously as it should be because it gets lost among these other causes of death. 
“What’s interesting about that number for suicides is that I think there may be room for underestimation of how serious this problem is because there are some other categories that are pretty big,” hersh said. 
hersh said in 2001 she drove her car into her garage and let it run for 90 minutes. She said she attributes her still being here to good ventilation, and as a result, she was subjected to electrocon­vulsive therapy (ECT). 
hersh said she had a very low valuation of herself at this point in her life. 
“I was certain that my life was over, I was certain I had nothing to offer my friends and family, or my community,” she said. 
hersh said her book “Struck By Living” is about her journey from her suicide attempt to un­derstanding why she made the attempt. 
“I felt that if I didn’t under­stand how I got to that spot, I was doomed to repeat the pro­cess,” she said. “It takes you form the point of that suicide attempt through to my discovery of why, how the heck did I get to that state.” 
hersh said when she arrived at Notre dame as a freshman, she was not the type of person that you would say had a mental illness. 
“I was like every other fresh­man at Notre dame,” hersh said, “I had been top of my class, I had been very successful. I was ener­getic, maybe a little sassy. I didn’t look like anything should be wrong with me.” 
hersh said in december of that year things started to fall apart. She said around this time she underwent a break up and began to doubt she could pursue her dream of becoming a doctor due to a fear of blood. 
She said she talked to her par­ents about dropping out of school by the following spring, and things did not really turn around until junior year. 
She said she also drank in ex­cess, did not exercise, had no awareness of Seasonal Affect disorder, had no access to psy­chotherapy or medication and worked two summer jobs. 
She said it didn’t occur to her at the time that the difficulties she was having were symptomatic of mental illness. 
“I never related what hap­pened to me as a brain problem,” she said. 
hersh said staying well for her is about maintaining bal­ance in her life and monitoring her depression. She said there are seven signs people can use to recognize mental illness and that she uses to monitor her own depression: insomnia, weight loss due to lack of appetite, iso­lation, inability to plan, feeling overwhelmed, loss of her sense of humor and a monotone voice. 
hersh said there are also 10 things she uses to maintain bal­ance in her life: sleep, nutrition, exercise, proper medication, brain investment, avoiding ro­mantic relationships that ex­clude friendships, allowing time for prayer or meditation, finding a mentor, anticipating stress and realizing she is more than her job. 
hersh said she discovered these 10 methods gradually and is still continually developing her techniques. She also said there are life lessons she is re-learning over and over, such as good stress is still stress, alcohol is a depres­sant, she is an introvert and the power of human touch.
 Mental health is a lifelong task and not something that is ever cured, hersh said. It can, how­ever, be kept in check when one knows the symptoms and moni­tors them appropriately. 
“I think if [we realize] mental health is something that every­one needs to do, not just those with mental illness, we are going to be better off,” hersh said. 
Contact Annemarie Loessberg at aloess01@saintmarys.edu 
By ANNEMARIE LOESSBERG 
News Writer 
Julie K. hersh, Notre dame alumna of ‘82, spoke to members of the Saint Mary’s, Notre dame and South Bend communities about Mental health Awareness on Tuesday at 8 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business as a part of the “Support a Belle, Love a Belle” and “Irish State of Mind” Mental health Awareness campaigns on both campuses.  
hersh said her lecture was dedicated to the son of a friend, Austen Frazier, who commit­ted suicide on Oct. 7, 2009 while dealing with bipolar disorder. 
hersh said based on the way people talk about mental health it doesn’t seem like a relevant problem to most people, but 

PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
38,500 people commit suicide each year according to the last Center for disease Control (CdC) report. She said this is almost as many as the 40,000 people who die annually as a result of breast cancer. 
She said the comparable mor­tality rate is not reflected in the respective levels of awareness of mental illness and breast cancer. 
“If you think about the kind of awareness we have with breast cancer, mental illness is kind of lagging terribly behind,” she said. 
hersh said suicide is especial­ly significant among causes of death for young adults. 
“For the age group [of]15 to19 suicide is the third highest cause of death, and for people in the 20 to 25 year old bracket it’s actually the second highest,” she said. 
The highest cause of death for strategy; we’re a long-term inves-


Endowment 
tor,” Malpass said. “So what really 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
matters is the five to 10-year perfor­

mance. But the median return was Malpass said, and the median re-higher than the prior year, for sure.” turn varies from year to year. he Malpass said he credits the fund’s said the median return value typi-success and appreciation in value cally ranges from around six per-to investment into private invest-cent to 14 percent. ments, good diversification and the
 “We don’t have a one-year performance of his managers. 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
The general strategy behind the fund management is to return in­flation plus five to six percent over time, he said.
 “We have to earn at least inflation to make sure the principle’s keeping its purchasing power,” 
Malpass said. “We also want to earn five to six percent because we’re spending that every year to support the campus.” 
A university press release said Notre dame benefitted from “spending distributions of some $286 million for the fiscal year.” Malpass said the endowment money goes toward a multitude of groups across campus, to students and faculty. 
“The large portion of that [goes] to scholarships for students, en­dowed shareholders for senior fac­ulty [and] the library,” Malpass said. ”Really all academic programs ben­efit from the endowment one way or the other. 
Malpass said there are actually more than 5,000 endowment funds that are pooled for investments like a mutual fund. 
“There are endowments for the glee club; there are endowments for student activities ... every academic department has endowments sup­porting them,” he said. ”[On] my core investment team ... we’re all actually Notre dame alumni, so there’s a real strong sense of pur­pose and mission.” 
Contact Alex Cao at acao@nd.edu 


ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Mind 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
sessions not only improved his relationships and his state of mind, but also gave him tools that will prepare him to handle more difficult trials down the road. 
“The MCAT is a very stressful exam, but it’s not the last stress­ful exam or the last stressful thing that I will encounter in my life,” he said. 
Notre dame senior Victoria Kay said she only visited the uCC once to talk about her depression that began in middle school. Although she found the counsel­or to be “very professional,” she said her anxiety in college arose mostly from over-scheduling herself, so, to her, adding anoth­er appointment to her calendar seemed counterproductive. 
“It’s just a little frustrating for me,” Kay said. “how do I begin to tell [the counselor] my life story? It’s just adding one more thing to the list. going to St. Liam wasn’t what I needed, but I did go to a few of the Stress Relief Fridays events. I love those because they are little opportunities to step back and breathe. 
“If you’re not talking about what’s going on with you, that can be a big problem. … With mental illness, it’s not a sign of weakness to confront it. It’s a sign of strength.” 
‘A deeper cause’ 
Saint Mary’s junior Mackenzie Woods said she and her older sister, a Notre dame graduate, both struggled with anorexia in middle school. 
Currently a member of the College’s Social Concerns Committee, Woods said a de­veloping sense of independence defined her recovery phase. 
“It was a mental thing,” Woods said. “It’s not just about the physical danger of it. That’s a misconception, that it’s all about wanting to be skinny. It’s about a deeper cause, [and] that’s what recovery is about — trying to figure all that out.” 
Now fully recovered, Woods said she has observed her peers struggling with similar issues, and felt compelled to share her knowledge about eating disorders. 
“[Talk] to someone consis­tently over a long period of time,” she said. “It’s important to have someone you trust and who knows your backstory.” 
Woods said she works on the Saint Mary’s chapter of Project help to Eat, Accept and Live (hEAL), a nonprofit organiza­tion that provides scholarships for treating eating disorders. She said Saint Mary’s needs a permanent club to support the awareness spread by “Support a Belle, Love a Belle” and “Love your Body Week.” 
Allie Richthammer, a senior at Saint Mary’s, spoke on the stu­dent panel for “Support a Belle, Love a Belle” about her diagno­sis with an anxiety disorder and clinical depression at age 15. 
Richthammer said she be­lieves the College provides high-quality and affordable mental health services for students. 
“I couldn’t afford my therapist in high school because she didn’t accept insurance,” Richthammer said. “One of the great things about coming to Saint Mary’s is that you can go to the [Women’s health] coun­seling center as many times as you want, and it’s free. … The only thing you would have to pay for would be if you needed a prescription.” 
Even though students may feel embarrassed about having an anxiety disorder, Richthammer said it helps to talk about mental health issues openly. 
“It’s important to know that it’s just one moment, and that one moment doesn’t have to be your entire life,” she said. “Asking for help is a sign of strength, rather than a sign of weakness.” 
‘Welcome to being human’ 
If a student doesn’t find his or her way independently to the uCC or a support group for help with mental health issues, Office of Student Affairs case manager Ann Whitall said her job is to connect him or her with the ap­propriate services on campus. 
“[My job is] a combination of an air-traffic controller, guid­ance counselor, triage person,” Whitall said. 
If a university staff or faculty member suspects a student may be struggling with a men­tal health issue, they can call Whitall to voice their concerns, she said. 
“I’m sort of the social worker for Student Affairs,” Whitall said. “I’ll call and say, ‘your rector called me last week, and she mentioned you seem withdrawn. do you mind com­ing in and letting me know how you’re doing?’ 
“Sometimes I never even meet with the student in question, but I do a lot of behind-the-scenes work. … It’s really meant to keep people from falling through the cracks, which had been hap­pening before. Students weren’t quite sure where to go.” 
Many colleges and univer­sities developed similar case manager positions after the shootings at Virginia Tech in April 2007, Whitall said. 
“The idea is that if we can cre­ate a community of people pay­ing attention to one another’s well-being, we can reach out before crises and tragedies hap­pen,” she said. 
Whitall is also a member of the Campus Assessment, Response and Education (C.A.R.E.) team at Notre dame. Members of the team include dr. Bill Stackman, associate vice president for stu­dent services, dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, director of the uCC, Phillip Johnson, director of NdSP, and representatives from the offices of disability Services, Community Standards and Alcohol and drug Education. 
Whitall said the group meets to discuss “students of concern,” approximately 80 to 90 students per year. 
“Those names come to us through a variety of different venues on campus,” she said. “The idea is we share names to see if anyone else is hearing about this student or dealing with this student in one of these other pockets. We are pulling this web together with the idea being to intervene early on so there doesn’t have to be a crisis or a tragedy or a suicide.” 
Although there’s some stigma on campus about reaching out for mental health services, stu­dents shouldn’t be ashamed of needing help sometimes, Whitall said. 
“Welcome to being human,” she said. “This is part of the hu­man condition.” 
Whitall said she operates un­der Family Educational Records Privacy Act (FERPA) laws and only shares student informa­tion on a “need-to-know” basis, such as notifying a dean that a certain student is struggling and has connected with the case manager. 
“If you’re involved in a stu­dent’s care in some way, then I can share information with you about that student,” she said. “I’m often very careful about what I say [to people involved in a student’s care]. It’s none of their business what the details are.” 
Whitall said she would like to see faculty and staff reach out to students on their own if they have a cause for concern. 
“I think a lot of faculty and staff think it’s not okay to ask about a student’s well-being, it’s not their job description or they’re infringing on their student’s pri­vacy,” Whitall said. “It’s about creating a climate and a culture in which we can reach out to one another and say, ‘Are you okay?’” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
Justice 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
contributions, public prayer and affirmative action, I felt that Justice Kennedy’s description of the Court was all the more accu­rate and hoped he would com­ment with some thoughts on the upcoming term.” 
Barnas said he was impressed by Kennedy’s forthright an­swers and engaging speaking presence. 
“Justice Kennedy gave very forthright and though-provok­ing answers,” Barnas said. “I found his observations on what it takes to be a good judge and how the Court is affect by cul­tural pressures to be very in­sightful. I enjoyed his thoughts on the Court’s role in democ­racy. Kennedy said laws and the Supreme Court are really a ‘nar­rative of our moral sense’ and that ‘injustice is really hard to see in the present.’ 
“As a student who is think­ing about attending law school, these observations really made me consider the interplay be­tween justice, equality and the rule of law, [as well as] the more noble responsibilities of lawyers and judges.” 
Sganga said Kennedy’s re­marks on the current govern­ment shutdown resonated with her. 
“When addressing politics, Justice Kennedy was very careful not to criticize or weigh in too much on the current state of the administration and Congress,” Sganga said. “he mentioned ear­lier that he is not a political man. however, he did say this much, [loosely] paraphrased, ‘Right now the whole world is watch­ing the united States amid this government shutdown. And for half of them, the jury is still out on democracy. The way we con­duct ourselves is a reflection on the nature of our governmental institution.’” 
Sganga said before she attend­ed the event, she was excited by the prospect of seeing Kennedy speak because of the essential role he played in recent Court decisions. 
“I’ve done some research on Justice Kennedy and even read a few of the decisions on gay rights and marriage that he had authored,” Sganga said. “going into the presentation, I knew he was the swing vote. So, I figured it would be interesting to hear from a justice with such a large sway.” 
Sganga said she felt Kennedy connected with the students on a personal level. 
“here was a man with so many experiences, so much wisdom, and so much say in how our gov­ernment operates. yet, he was funny, witty and even charm­ing,” Sganga said. “he had a way of making the students he spoke to feel comfortable and at ease. … he came across as just so thoughtful and well spoken, as if he had really reflected upon each word he communicated. 
“I guess that’s what you would like to hear about a Supreme Court Justice, but it also made me wish that more politicians in Washington, d.C. acted and spoke with the same care.” 
Kennedy’s talk was the high­light among other experiences she had with the Supreme Court while in Washington, d.C. this semester, Sganga said. 
“On Sunday, I attended Red Mass at St. Michael’s Cathedral down the street and was lucky enough to sit through the same service as Chief Justice Roberts, Justice Scalia, Justice Thomas, Justice Breyer and Justice Kagan,” Sganga said. “It was the icing on the cake to hear from Justice Kennedy the next day. Six Supreme Court justices in one week — not bad. Our class visited the Supreme Court a few weeks ago. … A few of us vowed to return now that the court is in session, we would love to observe an oral argument in person.” 
Barnas said even among the Notre dame in Washington Program’s various meetings with influential individuals in 
national  politics,  Kennedy’s  
talk  stood  out  as  a  “surreal  
experience.”  

“A valuable part of the d.C. Program is meeting with 

individuals who have a big im-is often seen as having a very pact in the public policy arena, powerful position on the Court ranging from senators, to lob-as the ‘swing justice’ and many byists, to White house offi-upcoming decisions will be con­cials and now a Supreme Court tingent upon his interpretation Justice. I want to find out what of the Constitution and Court inspires and informs these peo-precedents.” ple and how I should strive to be in their place in the future,” Contact Nicole Michels at Barnas said. “Justice Kennedy nmichels@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT PAId AdVERTISEMENT 




Expert examines nations’ democratization 
By KYLE WITZIGMAN 
News Writer 
Politicians often speak to democratization in the Middle East, but rarely about how the process works. On Tuesday, dr. Ali Mazrui picked up where they left off, with his lecture “democratizing Muslim Societies from Above and Below: Between Atatürk and Tahrir Square” in the hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Before the lecture, Scott Appleby, director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies introduced Mazrui as “one of the leading thinkers about Islam politics and culture in the world.” 
Mazrui, director of the Institute of global Cultural Studies at Binghamton university and Senior Fellow at the Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Center for Muslim-Christian understanding at georgetown university, said his talk focused on Ataturk and Tahrir Square because these revolutions represented the most striking examples of democratization from above and below, respectively, in the history of the Middle East. 
“The most spectacular [ex­ample] of democracy above is still the case of revolution of Atatürk in 1920s and 1930s,” Mazrui said. “The most spec­tacular [example] of democ­racy below is in Tunisia and Tahrir Square in Cairo — which ousted hosni Mubarak in February of 2011.” 
Mazrui said the revolution of Ataturk, which brought de­mocracy to Turkey in the 1920s and 1930s, is still remembered in Turkey and other Muslim nations. he said when visit­ing the Middle East he has seen images of the Atatürk Revolution all over the place. 
Mazrui also said the Ataturk revolution in many ways “westernized” Turkey. 
“Turkey’s democratization from above was simultane­ously Turkey’s westernization from above,” he said. 
This has led Muslims in oth­er nations to wonder whether or not such westernization is an inevitable part of becom­ing more democratic, Mazrui said. Throughout the Muslim world people are asking them­selves the same question, he major reverses in the social liberalizations and the deaths of at least a thousand people since the uprisings took off.” 
Mazrui said the number of pro-democratic uprisings in the Arab world in recent years is unprecedented in the course of history. he also said this democratization in the Arab world can continue, 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
especially if the secrets of rev­olutions like those of Ataturk and Tahrir Square are uncov­ered and employed. 
“[The] empowerment of women to the top of the politi­cal scale is one such secret,” Mazrui said. 
Contact Kyle Witzigman at kwitzigm@nd.edu 
said. 
“Can we liberally democra­tize without culturally west­ernizing?,” he said. 
Mazrui also said there was a strong link between educa­tion and modernity, as well as between empowering women and modernity, in Turkish society. 
Mazrui then transitioned to a discussion of democratiza­tion from below. his example for this form of democratiza­tion was the recent revolution in Egypt sparked by the Tahrir Square protests. 
he said the Tahrir Square revolution as an example of democratization from below highlights one drawback of this approach. 
“democratization from be­low was effective in ending the old [regime] rather than starting a new [regime],” 
“Can we liberally democratize without culturally westernizing?” 
Dr. Ali Mazrui 
professor 
Binghampton University 
he said. “The Tahrir Square Revolution ousted the old em­pire, but it’s hard to tell the in­fluence it will have later.” 
The importance of women in the liberalization of the Arab world was also high­lighted in Egypt’s revolution, Mazrui said. 
“Women were very visible participants in the Tahrir pro­tests,” he said. “historically, Egypt led the way with wom­en’s liberation.” 
Mazrui said the main prob­lem going forward in Egypt is the removal of President hosni Mubarak, which has left Egyptians thinking they can remove each succeeding president. 
“Egyptian populations feel if you have appointed a President and he has not de­livered the goods that you want, then you should throw him out,” Mazrui said. “It is a ridiculous situation in Egypt because it has resulted in 



PAId AdVERTISEMENT 




Town Hall 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
Services and the university Counseling Center (uCC), Coccia said. The meeting emphasized that resources are available to stressed and anxious individuals or just to those who need somewhere safe to talk at the uCC, which is located in St. Liam hall. 
Stephanie Klotter, student government director of res­idence life, helped organize much of the mental aware­ness week activities. She said that the purpose of the “Irish State of Mind” initia­tive is to have students con­sider their own worries and those of others. 
“In essence, to let peo­ple know that they are not alone,” Klotter said. 
Coccia said one way in which students can look out for their mental health is to learn to balance com­mitments with sleep, exer­cise and other physical and emotional needs. 

“Notre dame students are driven and committed, and this sometimes causes us to ignore fundamental parts of health like sleep and exercise,” Coccia said. “Sometimes the best thing we can do for ourselves is to say ‘no’ to that extra thing that we could do, in order to take time for ourselves.” 
Klotter said college is made more difficult by sep­aration from family and de­sire for self-discovery. 
“College puts us around each other all the time. It’s a kind of microcosm. When one of us is stressed it af­fects a whole group of peo­ple. Students may be away from their support systems of home and family. We are trying to figure out who we are, and it is a difficult process to undergo,” she said. 
Klotter said the university recognizes the many stress­es and challenges faced by students and provides ways for students to get the help they need. 
“The resources to assist in mental health are there,” she said. “The uCC has amazing professionals.” 
A lecture by psychology blogger, speaker and Notre dame alumna Julie hersh on Tuesday was the second major event in the week of mental health awareness programming, Klotter said. 
There will also be stress relief in front of South dining hall Wednesday night from 5:15 p.m. to 7 
p.m. and a concert on South Quad starting at 6 p.m. on Saturday. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 

Starbucks CEO promotes political collaboration 
Associated Press 
Starbucks CEO howard Schultz wants lawmakers to come together to resolve their political gridlock. And he’s giving away free coffee to customers who set an ex­ample how to do it. 
From Wednesday to Friday, the coffee chain is offering a free tall brewed coffee to any customer in the u.S. who buys another person a beverage at Starbucks. 
The offer is a way to help fellow citizens “support and connect with one an­other, even as we wait for 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 


our elected officials to do the same for our country,” Schultz said in a memo to staff on Tuesday. 
Schultz wrote that he wants to do something about Americans’ uncertainty over the federal government shutdown, the pending debt and default crisis and wan­ing consumer confidence. 
“In times like these, a small act of generosity and civility can make a big dif­ference,” says an ad being published in The New york Times, Washington Post and uSA Today on Wednesday. “Let’s see what can happen. #payitforward.” 
It’s not the first time Schultz has waded into the national political debate. In 2011, he asked other chief ex­ecutives to join him in halt­ing campaign contributions until politicians stopped their partisan bickering. The CEOs of more than 100 companies, from AOL to Zipcar, took the pledge. 
Marshal Cohen, chief re­tail analyst at The NPd group, said the latest cam­paign won’t likely have much political effect be­cause it lacks the kind of punishment that makes lawmakers think twice, like an impeachment drive. 
But it makes for great marketing, especially since many people, especially younger ones, care about brands that have a strong social conscience, Cohen said. 
“Will it work on the po­litical level? No. Won’t make a dent. Will it work on the commercial end? Absolutely,” he said. 


ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

INSIDE COLUMN 

A love letter to chocolate 
Katie McCarty 
Sports Writer 
dear Chocolate, 

I don’t always tell you this, but I wanted to take a moment now to reflect on all you do for me. 
When you came into my life 19 years ago, my world changed. I suddenly real­ized all other foods pale in comparison to your creamy and sweet taste. It took no time at all for me to fall madly in love with you and I can say without a shadow of a doubt my feelings have not changed. 
If I have had a bad day, I hold you in my hand and immediately feel a world bet­ter. No matter what form you take, you constantly delight me (although my din­ing hall favorite is cookies n’ cream froyo with M&Ms). 
you are full of great advice, such as, “Listen to your heartbeat and dance,” and, “Sing along with the elevator music.” however, my personal favorite is, “Buy yourself flowers.” Thank you, dove wrap­per. you are so wise and good to me. 
how do I love thee? Let me count the ways. 
hot fudge, Nutella, magic shell, Kit Kat bars, s’mores and brownies. Pancakes shine in your presence, cheesecake with you in it is my Achilles’ heel. And of course, the personal favorite of my friends and I: lava cakes from dominoes, paired with a classic order of 32 parmesan pop­pers, which brighten any dark night spent studying. 
Seriously, I cannot find words to ac­curately describe my feelings about how wonderful you are. you are so dependent, so loyal. I never wonder if you will let me down; whenever I need you, you are there. 
you also build community. you have mysterious people skills. you never speak, but somehow you bring people together without words. When my friends and I bake randomly, you bring us together to laugh and do a really good job of screwing up recipes. 
you connect me to my family. My grandmother, mother and sister all have not just one sweet tooth each, but mouths full of sweet teeth. The kitchen is con­stantly wafting the smell of baking cook­ies, brownies or cake through our house. We give you away as gifts to show other people we love them and especially to show each other how much we love each other, because giving you away is a dif­ficult act of love and self-restraint which requires much strength. 
In conclusion, you have bewitched me, body and soul, and I love you. I never wish to be parted from you from this day on. 
I want all of you, forever, you and me… 
Love, Katie 

P.S. The dove wrapper that says, “Chocolate therapy is oh, so good,” speaks the truth. Preach, dove wrapper. 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Fr. Kevin Nadolski 
Faith Matters 
Next Wednesday, Oct. 16, is World Food day. Few know about it, and even fewer will probably mark it. yet, this opportunity to raise awareness about and work to end the injustices around food, nutrition and hunger beckons us to act, especially as Catholics. 
Pictures and statistics can stir and sicken us when we see starving chil­dren or read the numbers of hungry children and pregnant women in our country and beyond. I share just four facts that could move us to sadness, anger or deep compassion — maybe all three and more — with a growl that could match a hungry stomach: 
$165 billion worth of food is thrown out in the u.S. every year, or about 40 percent of our nation’s food supply. All of this uneaten food could feed 25 mil­lion Americans (Reuters, 2013). 
hunger is No. one on the list of the world’s top-10 health risks. It kills more people every year than AIdS, malaria and tuberculosis combined (uNAIdS, 2010; WhO, 2011). 
It costs just 25 cents per day to pro­vide a child with all of the vitamins and nutrients he or she needs to grow up healthy (WFP, 2011). 
Every day, almost 16,000 children die from hunger-related causes (Bread for the World, 2013). 
Begun by the united Nations in 1979, World Food day seeks to coordinate efforts to end hunger and food-related crises throughout the world, which has obesity in some countries and starvation in others. If the world could be designed to be a table of five, one person would be overeating and obese, two others would be starving to death and the remaining two would be getting just enough. With no disrespect to those who struggle seriously with the medi­cal condition, the human family has an eating disorder! 

having worked as a vocation direc­tor for seven years, I would travel to college campuses to present at discus­sions on religious life and the priest­hood. I remember meeting a young man who was not interested in a reli­gious vocation, as he attended with his friend who was. The casual observer came up to me and remarked, “Father, I’m not even Catholic, but you guys talk too much about sex and not about the poor.” I responded defensively, “I didn’t mention anything about sex.” he agreed and said, “But that’s what you Catholics are known for.” 
I hoped he was wrong, but that com­ment has stayed with me through the years. If we Catholics are known for anything, wouldn’t it be most appro­priate that we are renown throughout the world for feeding? With our cen­tral sacrament as the Eucharist and with our tradition’s great reverence for the care of the Body and Blood of Christ, eating and feeding are not just meant for church worship. They are identifying behaviors we present to the world. 
From feeding the poor around the globe and in our neighborhoods and welcoming those on the margins who hunger for acceptance, to lobbying na­tional leaders and mobilizing support in the international community to end hunger, these matters must rise as our top priority. Additionally, the violence of these food-related issues slaps the peace we as Christians are called to cultivate. 
As we listen to Pope Francis, I am re­minded of that young man I met years ago: “We cannot insist only on issues related to abortion, gay marriage and the use of contraceptive methods. This is not possible. I have not spoken much about these things,” the Pope said. But, the pope has spoken both volubly and vehemently on serving the poor. 
Perhaps a first step is to feed them — or, at least, to waste less food. 
Fr. Kevin Nadolski, a priest with the Oblates of St. Francis de Sales, works for his community as director of development and communications. He has served the church as a Catholic high school teacher, campus minister and principal, as well as vocation and formation director for the Oblates. He lives with his community in Wilmington, Del., and can be reached at knadolski@oblates.org 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
detroit: A city out of gas 
Adam Newman 
Scientia Potentia Est 
It was sad, but certainly not unex­pected, when detroit filed for bank­ruptcy in late July. Once the Mecca of auto manufacturing, detroit sym­bolized the nostalgic manufactur­ing hub every American holds dear. unfortunately, globalization and technological advancement hit detroit especially hard. Today, detroit symbol­izes urban decay: public services are horrendous (two in five street lights do not work), it has one of the highest murder rates in the country and one in two adults either does not have a job or has stopped looking. To say the least, detroit has major issues. 
however, the issues that most drove detroit towards bankruptcy were unfunded pensions and health care liabilities. When detroit declared bank­ruptcy, $10 billion of its $18 billion in debt obligations were due to the retire­ment plans of city employees. Over past decades, state and city politicians have made promises to public sector employ­ees in exchange for political support. Raising salaries is somewhat difficult, because politicians have to undergo the unpopular act of either raising taxes or cutting spending. however, by offering generous pension benefits, politicians could promise city employees high pay­ments in the future. This was a perfect situation for politicians, because they could still please public sector employ­ees through compensation raises with­out cutting spending or raising taxes. Someone else would have to do that when the employees retired. 

The biggest question is how the bank­ruptcy will affect pensions. When in bankruptcy, organizations are able to shed debt by paying less for obligations. Many believe it is illegal for the city to cut benefits as a result of provisions in the Michigan constitution. But it is im­portant to remember borrowing costs are directly tied to one’s likelihood of paying back loans (the more likely you are to pay back, the lower your interest costs). Thus, detroit’s future ability to borrow (and hence pay for city services) will depend on how much its credi­tors are paid back during bankruptcy. Simply giving the retirees everything and giving the creditors nothing will hurt detroit’s ability to raise money in the future. 
Even still, anger towards public sector employees in detroit is some­what misguided. Contrary to popular opinion, public employees in detroit do not have especially high pensions. The average pension is $19,000 for an employee, and the average pension for a firefighter is $30,000. Similar to any group, they are advocating against cuts that affect them. however, as hard as it may be, this group must understand lowering the age at which people start receiving benefits to the mid-50s and promising overly-generous rates of growth has destroyed the finances of both the local and state government. Tough choices will have to be made as these promises are fulfilled. Services and investments will be cut and taxes will rise. It is not a question of “if,” but “by how much.” While it may be diffi­cult to understand, it would not be right for current employees and retirees to not have any sacrifice. Public employee unions should come forward and offer cuts to share the pain with taxpayers. If they do not, the political retribution will most likely lead to greater cuts down the road. As the political saying goes, “If you do not come to the table, you will only lead yourself to get placed on the menu.” 
unfortunately, there is relatively little detroit can do at this point to solve its mess. Perhaps the only good that can come from this situation is providing an example to cities with similar issues, such as Chicago and Philadelphia, and states such as Illinois and California. The message these cities and states should take away is even “shining cities on a hill” can go bankrupt. 
Adam Newman is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER  9, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Pro-life or pro-birth? 
Shaaya Ellis 
Reason Will Prevail 

Since the Supreme Court decided Roe 
v. Wade in 1979, the abortion debate has been separated into two camps: pro-life and pro-choice. Those who are pro-choice believe a woman has an inherent right to privacy, hence she has a right to choose what she wants to do with her body, with respect to abortion. Those who subscribe to the idea all life begins at conception are considered to be pro-life. 
What is interesting about this debate is labels tend to mislead, and one has to question the motives of both of these diametrically opposed groups. I can say with the utmost certainty that many of those who are pro-choice tend not to support other forms of choice in soci­ety such as school vouchers, and those who are pro-life tend to support the death penalty. While the latter group of persons mean well in their crusade to protect the life of the innocent and vul­nerable, I suspect their good intentions might go awry if they do not grasp the gravity of the situation when a woman elects to have an abortion. 
I believe those who believe in the “life begins at conception” mantra do not consider the psychological factors a woman deals with when soliciting an abortion. In the cases of rape and incest, the amount of strain those two events can have on a woman’s well-being, in ad­dition to dealing with an unwanted preg­nancy, can be crippling. For those who pride themselves on being pro-life, some self–examination is needed, because to outright say a woman has to keep an un­wanted pregnancy as a result of rape and incest is not only an inordinate amount of naiveté, it is simply folly. 
Furthermore, in the cases of rape and incest, I believe forcing a woman to keep an unwanted pregnancy is antithetical to the American ideal of liberty and free­dom. If a woman has no right to do as she please with her body then what rights are she left with? 
I believe abortion is a medical proce­dure of very little significance that can simply ameliorate the burden of going through a traumatic experience, as in the cases of rape and incest. 
According to the Center for disease Control (CdC), abortion is defined as the termination of pregnancy by the removal or expulsion from the uterus of a fetus or embryo prior w viability. The term abortion most commonly refers to the induced abortion of a human pregnancy. The most common surgical methods of induced abortion is by manual vacuum aspiration (MVA), which consists of re­moving the fetus or embryo, placenta, and membranes by suction using a man­ual syringe, and electric vacuum aspira­tion (EVA), which uses an electric pump. Simply put, the CdC defines abortion as a medical procedure. 

Likewise, when it comes to the wom­an’s health, I believe abortion should be viewed as a medical procedure that can be used to save the mother’s life in the event something goes wrong during pregnancy or childbearing. 
Those who argue life begins at con­ception would have us believe they are pro-life, but in essence they are pro-birth. If one were truly pro-life, then I think they should consider having compassion and sympathy for the life of the mother. I believe the majority of those who squawk about life beginning at conception fail to consider the most crucial ingredient in a woman’s decision to get an abortion: her own well-being. 
If a woman decides for whatever reason an unwanted pregnancy and childrearing is something she does not want to do, then simply having an abor­tion should be made available to her. Abortion is just a medical procedure similar to any other procedure that involves the body. If life truly begins at conception as the pro-life purport, then why is the life of the mother being overshadowed by the life of the fetus? I believe it is very haughty to suggest abortion is murder and life begins at conception. It is of vital importance to remember when a woman solicits an abortion she is not doing so out of spite or malice, but to act in her best interest. 
To those who adhere to the pro-life doctrine, I think they must go beyond saying life begins at conception and recognize life also continues after birth. More importantly, the life of a woman should take precedent over the life of a fetus or an embryo. To not consider this is insincere and only seeks to make an impulsive argument motivated by pas­sion and not reason. 
Shaaya Ellis is a junior political science major with a classics minor. He can be contacted at sellis2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Respect Life Week 
Every year, Notre dame Right to Life (NdRL) spon­sors Respect Life Week. during this week, Notre dame students are invited to participate in a number of ac­tivities, seeking to engage in discussion on life issues. For several years during Respect Life Week, Right to Life has displayed the Cemetery of the Innocents on South Quad. The Cemetery, comprised of simple white crosses, sought to raise awareness, commemorate the lives that have been lost to abortion and promote life-encouraging resources for women who may have expe­rienced or are considering an abortion. 
This year, Right to Life has chosen to display a garden of roses in place of the cemetery.  Each white rose rep­resents lives lost due to abortion. The other roses rep­resent those who have suffered emotionally, spiritually and physically because of abortion, including mothers, fathers, families and friends. The garden is centered around the cross, the source of hope and healing for all. 
With these roses, we seek to raise the same awareness and commemoration, while simultaneously extending a deeper invitation to love. The flowers demonstrate the fragility, beauty and value of every human life. We acknowledge there are many students on this campus who have been affected by abortion, both directly and indirectly. This display is a loving way of reaching out to acknowledge those wounds and offer hope for healing. It is an invitation to the entire Notre dame community to join together in promoting a greater respect for the dignity of all life. 
We invite all of you to join us on South Quad at 11 
p.m. on Thursday night for a candlelight vigil to re­member all the lives that have been lost to abortion and all the lives that have been affected. For more in­formation about Respect Life Week, or for information on pregnancy, parenting and post-abortive student resources, visit chooselife.nd.edu. 
Erin Stoyell-Mulholland 
NdRL president 
Rachel Drumm 
NdRL vice president 
Aleshia Faulstich 
NdRL vice president 
Michael Rangel 
NdRL treasurer 
Marco Cerritelli 
NdRL secretary 

Criminalization is not the answer 
This week was Notre dame Right to Life (NdRL)’s an­nual Respect Life week, when members of that organiza­tion put on a number of events and activities aimed at “promoting pro-life discourse” on campus. The week culminated with the striking spectacle of dozens of tiny crosses littering the quad bordering O’Shaughnessy hall, what NdRL calls a “Cemetery of the Innocents.” 
Although the details aren’t clear, NdRL apparently would have this country — and, presumably, every other country where women enjoy access to legal, safe abortion services — revert to a regime of full criminalization ex­cept in certain extreme circumstances, and perhaps not even then. What NdRL and its supporters on this campus fail to realize is criminalization is neither effective nor just. It is ineffective because it does not reduce the de­mand for abortions — it merely drives the practice un­derground. It is unjust because it directly and indirectly harms thousands of women annually without affecting the root problems that motivate women to seek abortion in the first place. 
highly-restrictive abortion laws are not associated with lower abortion rates. Western Europe has one of the lowest abortion rates in the world despite the broad legal permissibility of the practice in most European countries. In the u.S., the initial rise in legal abortion rates following the Roe decision was largely due to a sharp decline in de­mand for illegal abortions. Legal abortion rates have de­clined since the early 1980s. The highest rates of abortion can be found in countries in Africa and Asia, with some of the most restrictive abortion laws in the world. 
Moreover, criminalization carries with it horrific consequences. In 2008, 47,000 women died from com­plications from unsafe abortions, comprising a total of 13 percent of all maternal deaths. Virtually all of these deaths occurred in developing countries with highly-restrictive abortion laws. 
I do not mean to argue here about the morality of abortion. But any conscientious opponent of legalized abortion must reckon with the considerable moral costs of criminalization in terms of lives ruined and lives lost. 
Many who argue in favor of criminalization are not, nor will they ever be, in a position to suffer from such a re­gime. For this reason, thinking about this issue requires a deliberate and sometimes difficult effort of moral empathy. 
The safest and most effective way of reducing abortion rates is not criminalization, but the provision of effective, modern contraceptives. An estimated 215 million women in the developing world have an unmet need for contra­ceptives. This is a public health crisis that should concern us all. Instead, many Notre dame students appear more worried about the rights of the unborn. But even granting for the sake of argument that abortion is a morally dubi­ous practice, it does not follow that criminalization is the appropriate, or moral, response. 
Benjamin Rossi 
graduate student off campus Oct. 7 

ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 09, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

By MADDIE DALY 
Scene Writer 

No matter whether you love her or love to hate her, there is no doubt Miley Cyrus is one of the most successful art­ists in the current music scene. Starting with the mega-million franchise that was hannah Montana, moving on to actress, singer and fashion icon combined into one and finally ending up as a contro­versial topic in nearly every publication, Miley has had taken advantage of the media every step of the way. her new music has been wildly successful, not necessarily because people like it, but be­cause it catches their attention.  her edgy, provocative new look has turned her into one of the most talked about stars in the past few months —  the perfect way to publicize an upcoming album. 
how many people have not seen or heard about the “Wrecking Ball” music video in which Miley, well, appears na­ked swinging on an enormous wrecking ball while singing the highly emotional song? As the second single released from her new album “Bangerz,” “Wrecking Ball” has ranked No. 2 (currently third) on the iTunes top 100, and its scandalous video has been viewed over 200 million times. Say whatever you want about her, but the girl is making a serious splash in the music world. 
Besides the already-popular singles “Wrecking Ball” and “We Can’t Stop,” Miley’s album contains 16 pop, border­line hip-hop songs, including several featuring some seriously famous artists. her song with Britney Spears, titled “SMS (Bangerz),” is an electric party number featuring Spears’ breathy voice with a re­petitive verse by Miley that is sure to get stuck in your head after just one listen. you’ll be “struttin’ your stuff” all around campus after hearing Miley repeat the phrase over and over again. 
Another song on the album, “hands in the Air,” features rapper Ludacris and features Miley’s mature alto voice sing­ing over a slowed-down, chill beat.  her song “Fu” featuring French Montana is similar, with a relaxed tone and a catchy, angry verse. 
Although Miley leaves most of the rap­ping up to a few real rappers, she does at­tempt some rapping of her own in a few songs, which does not turn out well.  her song “Love Money Party” is a rap number and, although it has a decent rhythm, is ruined by her unnatural, unexpected rapping.  
One of my favorite songs on the album is called “#gETITRIghT,” hashtag and caps included.  The song has a 70s retro groove to it, and Miley sticks to singing rather than rapping, giving all of our ears a nice break. She shows off her wide-ranged voice and sings provocative lyrics without making them too explicit.  her song “On My Own” blasts a similar beat but has a completely different message, one of self-dependence. 
unlike several artists these days, Miley knows how to vary her music without straying too far from her overall genre. Each song has its own significance and sound, making it impossible to confuse one for another. And though her new look has straddled the line between inap­propriate and downright unacceptable, I don’t have any major problems with the lyrics of her songs, which may be due to the fact that I have come to expect overly sexual material from her. Either way, my jaw didn’t drop like it did when, let’s say, I accidentally stumbled upon her recent photo shoot with Terry Richardson.  We get it, Miley; you’re not hannah Montana anymore. That doesn’t mean you have to stop wearing clothes. 
Starting with a haircut and the release of her single “We Can’t Stop,” Miley be­gan the revamping of her career as a musician and an overall public figure. By acting overly mature for her age and stirring up controversy with her new, ex­tremely provocative look, Miley gained the attention she needed to dominate the music scene with a new album. It doesn’t matter if you adore or despise her or her music, because either way there’s no way to avoid talking and hearing about her. All the while, she’s just being Miley.  Cue the infamous Miley-sticking-her-tongue­out image. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
“Bangerz” 
Miley Cyrus 
Label: RCA Tracks: “#GETITRIGHT,” “On My Own” If you like: Britney Spears 


By JOHN DARR 
Scene Writer 

Every music aficionado remembers “the good old days.” For some, it’s the 60s, the era of Rock and Roll, when the pop music scene boasted groups that were constantly innovating and sending messages through their lyrics. For others it’s the early 2000s, when a spree of clas­sic indie rock records spanning Modest Mouse’s “The Moon and Antarctica” to Arcade Fire’s “Funeral” were released upon the world. In some rare instances, we get to live through days that we know will be “the good old days” – as my friend and band member gray Whisnant once said, “We’re fortunate to be alive when Kanye West is still releasing music.” 
Personally, I’ve always been enthralled by electronic music. As a producer and composer, the techniques electronic mu­sicians employ to craft completely new and genuinely emotional sounds out of mere machines never fails to awe me. My so-called “good old days” for electronic music were the nineties, a time when groups like daft Punk and producers like Aphex Twin were just starting to reveal the infinite possibilities of the synthe­sizer and the sampler. 
In the 70s, electronic records like Tangerine dream’s “Phaedra” and Kraftwerk’s “Trans Europe Express” es­tablished a musical foundation for the genre, but lack the emotional power or aesthetic complexity needed to draw in many modern listeners, myself in­cluded. Aphex Twin’s “Selected Ambient Works,” released in 1992, opened up new doors into the textural possibilities of the synthesizer, crafting rich and invit­ing soundscapes for listeners to dive into. daft Punk’s 1997 album “homework” in­troduced the possibility of living, breath­ing dance music without human vocals. Both works, of course, are mere stand­outs in an era of similar steps forward. 
Recently, many producers have been making a name off of melding synthe­sizers with a human element. Many of today’s most famous producers – david guetta and Calvin harris to name a few 
– are famous for their collaborations with vocalists. hotshot indie producers like Flying Lotus and Bonobo meld organic sounds with sampled instruments and gritty synthesizers to lessen the synthetic nature of the genre. 
As much as I love the vitality and rich­ness of today’s electronic music, I often find myself wondering where the Aphex Twin style, the old daft Punk style, went. For a while, I simply accepted that people were done listening to so-called robot music. 
And yet Oneohtrix Point Never, in his new album “R Plus Seven,” has crafted just that. Oneohtrix is the musical proj­ect of producer daniel Lopatin, producer renowned for his work in ambient elec­tronic music. his past music has been rich, textured and sample-heavy, focus­ing on recordings of acoustic instruments paired with synthesized landscapes. 
In contrast, “R Plus Seven” is construct­ed merely from synthesizers and the oc­casional distorted vocal snippet. In this way, “R Plus Seven” harkens back to the “good old days,” where artists managed to capture life through the non-living. Each selection is a tapestry of simple sounds – simple synthesizer notes and drum ma­chine hits. And yet the production, the arrangement of each sound, teases life and motion out of each phrase. Each ele­ment swells and bends in the context of its surroundings. 
In “Zebra,” a bright synth glitches through a glittering field of synth pads and the occasional pan flute, giving the impression of a rich jungle. “Along” uses alternately spaced and cluttered synth vocals amidst bells to emulate both the calm and chaos of a city at night. And in the closer “Chrome Country,” an obvi­ously artificial choir exudes calm an emo­tion; Lopatin’s decision to give the choir an simple melody and to nestle it into the background rather than the forefront of the song gives the impression of a holy humbleness when contrasted against a strong organ line. 
Each track on “R Plus Seven” uses inno­vative tricks and careful musical framing to bring complex, lively ideas to life from simple electronic elements. It’s a feat of production and composition, a work that achieves more than most modern elec­tronic albums while using comparatively ancient technology. “R Plus Seven” is a stunning step forward in a musical arena, which many have deserted in favor of the hip and new. Assuming that Lopatin con­tinues down the path which Aphex Twin and daft Punk started traversing long ago, it may not be long until the electronic music’s “good old days” are back again. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“R Plus Seven” 
Oneohtrix Point Never 
Label: Warp 
Tracks: “Americans,” “Zebra,” “Chrome Country” If you like: Aphex Twin, Sepalcure 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 



ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 09, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 


By CECELIA HEFFRON 
Scene Writer 

While filling our cart with the usual yogurt, granola bars and Keurig cups on a trip to a nearby grocery store, my friend experienced a sudden burst of inspiration. 
“Let’s get cheese!” she suggested, “And olives and crackers – everything we need for a fancy hors d’oeuvres night!” 
I needed no convincing, so we set off in pursuit of the necessary ingredients for a perfect night with friends. 
disappointment ensued upon discov­ering the grocery store lacked a special cheese department. Instead, the complete selection of cheese could be found in the deli section. My friend examined our op­tions while I stood there scoffing. Surely, this could not be the extent of my choices. 
I condescended to look at the cheese and was horrified by what I saw – cubes of colby jack, slices of monterey jack and unpleasant hunks of cheddar . . . but where was the camembert, the manchego, the aged gouda? My friend, annoyed by my criticism of the perfectly good cheese, grabbed a pack of nicely pre-sliced American cheese. 
“No!” I yelled, horrified, “Can’t you see that was sitting right next to the Cheese Whiz. Read the ingredients and you’ll find that cheese isn’t even listed! Nothing in the world could prevail upon me to eat that garbage!” 
My friend was taken aback. 
I explained that during my summer spent in Paris, I had learned everything about quality cheese. Proudly, I declared myself a cheese connoisseur. “Believe me,” I said, “the absolute worst thing in the world is a pseudo-cheese product that pre­tends to be real cheese. Oh, what nerve!” 
I stormed out of the aisle, officially cancelling hors d’oeuvre night. But as my outrage subsided, I realized that I had been too hasty in my condemnation of non­dairy cheese imitators as the worst thing ever . . . 
Thanks to my heated rant, I had discov­ered the actual worst thing ever: snobbery. I had attempted to mask my snobbery by calling myself a connoisseur of fine cheese, but the cold, hard truth was that I was act­ing like a snob. 
Connoisseurs and snobs are expert judges in matters of taste. They consider their tastes to be superior to those of ev­eryone else. here at Notre dame, we have many varieties of snobs: the Coffee Snob, who only drinks Starbucks coffee; the Fashion Snob, who would never dream of wearing knockoff shoes or off-brand clothes; the Music Snob, who would never stoop to participate in a cliché Taylor Swift sing-along when they could listen to more sophisticated music; and the dining hall Snob, who would never dream of venturing to the lesser of the two dining hall institu­tions. And apparently, there is at least one Cheese Snob. 
While there is nothing wrong with hav­ing personal preference or a penchant for the finer things, becoming a connoisseur of anything has its drawbacks. Allowing oneself to have too refined of taste can lead to close-mindedness and self-imposed limitations. 
As college students, we have the unique opportunity expose ourselves to new ideas, foods, music genres and art forms. If we have already defined ourselves as con­noisseurs of one particular sphere at the young age of 20, we risk closing ourselves off to countless new things. If our Coffee Snob relinquished any snobby ideas and visited another café, they might discover a surprisingly delicious drink option like the hot chocolate at Waddick’s. Or if our dining hall Snob decided to visit North, they might discover the magic of the Rec Room or bump into the perfect candidate for their next SyR date. 
I remain convinced that pseudo-cheese products that dare to call themselves cheese tare a close runner-up to the title of worse thing ever. however, by pretend­ing to be a cheese connoisseur I lost out on a potentially memorable night with my friends. 
Again, there is nothing wrong with hav­ing good taste and strong personal prefer­ence. There is nothing wrong with liking good cheese. What should be avoided is looking down upon the tastes and prefer­ences of others. Exercise good judgment in taste, but keep those judgments to your­self. Otherwise, you too may become a snob, the worst thing ever. 
Contact Cecelia Heffron at cheffro1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Returning to ‘Backyard Baseball’ 

Jack Hefferon 
Sports Writer 
growing up, most adults around me liked to wax poetic on their glory days of childhood sports. In the romantic ideal of “The Sandlot,” they’d leave the house all day, go play with the neighborhood kids and return home only for dusk or the dinner bell. 
These memories were usually presented in contrast to our lost generation, which would rather sit around with the book of face or our Tweeter machines then go experience the indescribable magic of a game of stickball in the backyard. 
Well, now that we find our­selves being slowly pushed out into the real world, I think it’s only fair that our generation gets to look back on our childhood of sports in the backyard. And while our childhoods were filled with AySO Soccer, CyO Basketball and those dang participation trophies old-folks love to hate, my reflection on childhood sports always leads back to one place: the Backyard. 
I’m not referring to any of the games we played out behind our house, though there were plenty of those. No, the true crux of my childhood sports experi­ence came when I’d walk back to our family’s Compaq (and later, a fancy gateway 2000), open up the disc drive, and fire up “Backyard Baseball.” 
The “Backyard” series of com­puter games premiered with “Backyard Baseball” in 1997, and featured 55 imaginary neigh­borhood kids that you could draft, manage, then go out and play with. The game’s success spawned Backyard versions of football, soccer, basketball and, regrettably, hockey and skateboarding. 
I first got “Backyard Baseball” for Christmas at seven years old, and it was my first real video game experience. Over the years, the games taught me to draft and manage a team, and held my interest for hours. 
But looking back, the “Backyard” world was pretty messed up. 
The kids weren’t just stereo­typical, they were stereotypes of stereotypes. Tony delVecchio wasn’t just a loud-mouthed, boasting Italian – he had greased-back hair and a lollipop out the corner of his mouth to complete the look. Marky duBois was the backwoods kid with a twang, tearing overalls, buck teeth and a pet frog. And then there was young Pablo Sanchez, the hispanic kid who spoke broken English and wore a two-sizes too small shirt, but could hit a ball 500 feet and was far and away the game’s best player. 
The players were like that grandmother from “Wedding Crashers”: incredibly racist, but almost cute enough to get away with it. The developers of the game tried their best to be inclu­sive, but even that was comically off (Kenny Kawaguchi played in his wheelchair, but could still dunk on a 10-foot hoop). The nerdy kids wore huge glasses and were no good at sports, the athletic kids lorded over them. But the craziness that flew over my second-grade head didn’t end there. 
The 10-year old pitchers would have wrecked their arms by throwing curveballs at such a young age – to say nothing about the 150 mile-per-hour Fireball. And pitchers stayed in the game until they ran out of “juice,” a word that would come to take on a whole other connotation in baseball over the next five years. That only got worse when the “Backyard” series started including kid versions of real-life pros in the game, and had an incredible record of picking players that were connected to steroids (Bonds, Mcgwire, Sosa, Canseco and A-Rod, to name an unfortunate few). 
The kids heckled each other routinely, and playing “Backyard Baseball” at such a tender age was the first time I ever heard someone call a pitcher the un­speakable “B—ITCh— ” word … belly itcher. 
The game featured no adults and the only authority figure was the league commissioner, which for some reason was a mute, one-wheeled cyborg named Mr. Clanky. 
you have to question why someone made these random, wacked-out games, this world of racist caricatures ruled by a robot overlord, run into the ground by playing pick-up games all day.  It doesn’t make sense. Why did I even find it enjoyable? 
The point is, it doesn’t matter. Stickball sounds like a pretty stupid game too, but that hasn’t stopped thousands of baby-boomers from telling us that it made them the generation they are. 
So I may have spent years of my childhood on the “Backyard” series, but now that I’m an adult it’s my god-given right to stub­bornly defend the time I spent on it to the grave. 
Now, does anyone know where I can find a new gateway 2000? 
Contact Jack Hefferon at whefferon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Big 10 ground attacks excel in 2013 
Associated Press 

With a full week of league play in the books, a famil­iar trend has emerged in the Big Ten. 
Running the ball — and stopping others from doing likewise — are going to be huge for teams hoping to contend for the conference title this season. 
Five Big Ten teams rank in the top 25 nationally in rushing offense, the most of any conference in the country. The Big Ten is also first with six teams ranked in the top 20 in rushing defense, and four of them; Michigan State, Ohio State, Iowa and Michigan, are among the top 10. 
Indiana is the only league team in the top 30 in pass­ing offense. 
“This is a physical league. It has good backs. It has good schemes in the run game,” said Wisconsin coach gary Andersen, whose Badgers remain first in the Big Ten with 
300.6 rushing yards per game heading into this weekend’s game against Northwestern. “you’ve got to be able to stop the run. If you can’t stop the run, it becomes very difficult to play defense.” 
No. 4 Ohio State pulled out the most high-profile league win last weekend, rallying on the road to beat Northwestern 40-30. 
The Buckeyes (6-0, 2-0 Big Ten) can thank running back Carlos hyde for help­ing them stay perfect. hyde ran for three touchdowns in a 13½-minute span of the second half — includ­ing the go-ahead Td with 
5:22 left — as Ohio State rallied from a 10-point deficit. hyde, who missed three games because of suspension, finished with a season-best 168 yards. 
hyde joined Jordan hall, quarterback Braxton Miller and Ezekiel Elliott with at 

FOR RENT 

Great location. Loft apartment 4 rent 2 blocks E of campus. $450/ mo + electric. For pics and details sharonisback4ever@yahoo.com 
 USC-ND apt 4 rent. Sleeps 6. Fully furnished. 2 blocks E of cam­pus. For pricing/pix/details sha­ronisback4ever@yahoo.com 
least 200 yards rushing for the Buckeyes, who are 12th nationally at 280.7 yards a game behind a standout line. 
“Right now the strength of our program is that of­fensive line,” Ohio State coach urban Meyer said. “They’re exactly what we’re looking for.” 
Nebraska (4-1, 1-0) opened Big Ten play with senior quarterback Taylor Martinez on the bench with an injured toe. With Tommy Armstrong Jr. mak­ing just his second start, Ameer Abdullah came through with the best game of his career. Abdullah had 225 yards rushing and two touchdowns in a 39-19 win over Illinois (3-2, 0-1) and shared co-offensive player of the week honors with hyde. 
The success of Abdullah and Imani Cross, who had 76 yards rushing, kept the huskers from asking Armstrong to do too much. he only had to throw it 13 times, finishing with 135 yards passing and two Tds. 
“It was huge. I think it always starts with estab­lishing the run, and on the defensive side of the ball playing the run. I think that’s where it begins, on the line of scrimmage. It sure opens everything else up,” Nebraska coach Bo Pelini said. “The success that Ameer had, and obvi­ously for him to put up that kind of yardage we were playing well up front...is a real positive for us.” 
Northwestern (218.4 yards) and Minnesota 
(215.8) remain in the top 25 of rushing offense despite losses last week. Those run-heavy teams will likely have trouble keeping up their gaudy run numbers the deeper they get into Big Ten play. 
Especially when they have to face Michigan State (4-1, 1-0). 
Iowa (4-2, 1-1) entered last week’s game against the Spartans averaging 244 yards rushing a game and trailed only Air Force and Army in rushing attempts. But Michigan State was so prolific in stuffing Mark Weisman and the hawkeyes that they ran the ball just 16 times — including four carries in the second half 
— for 23 yards in a 26-14 loss. 
Michigan State is now far and away the nation’s best rushing defense at a minuscule 51.2 yards per game. 
Coach Mark dantonio credits his team’s experi­ence on the depth chart and in the coaching box for those tremendous numbers. 
The Spartans host Indiana (3-2, 1-0) on Saturday. 
“First of all, as a coaching staff we’ve been together for a long time,” dantonio said of his team’s success stopping the run. defensive coordinator Pat “Narduzzi does a great job calling our defense when there’s a problem. he can fix it midstream.” 
The Buckeyes and hawkeyes, who each have the week off before fac­ing each other in the horseshoe on Oct. 19, are each allowing less than 90 yards a game on the ground. No. 18 Michigan (5-0, 1-0) is right be­hind them in ninth with 
90.4 yards heading into Saturday’s game at Penn State (3-2, 0-1). 
Even so, those teams will still likely have to defend a heavy dose of running plays. 
“It’s been a big part of the league this year, and it’s been a big part of this league for a long time,” Andersen said. “This year it seems to be a very talented crew that’s running the ball, from top to bottom.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.
  USC - RV parking still available. 2    “You don’t make decisions be­blks E of campus. Pricing/pix/de-cause they are easy; you don’t make tails sharonisback4ever@yahoo.com them because they are cheap; you don’t make them because they’re Inspirational Quotes popular; you make them because they’re right.” - Fr. Theodore Hesburgh “Put it ot them briefly so they     “I’ve missed more than 9,000 shots in will read it, clearly so they will ap-my career. I’ve lost almost 300 games. preciate it, picturesquely so they 26 times I’ve been trusted to take the will remember it and, above all, game winning shot and missed. I’ve accurately so they will be guid-failed over and over again in my life. And ed by its light” - Joseph Pulitzer that is why I succeed.” -Michael Jordan 


WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Lewis blanks Farley for first win of the year 
McGlinn tops Breen-Phillips; Pyros dominate Lions; Ryan remains perfect against Howard 
Ladowski said she hopes the Finest scampered in from less a yard out 
By MANNY DE JESUS 

Sports Writer offense lives up to the play of their to put Mcglinn in the lead, 7-0. defense next game. Freshman quarterback Emily 
In a game of tough, stifling de-“Our defense played really well, Affinito answered for Breen fenses, Lewis shut out Farley’s of-but our offense really wasn’t on to-Phillips (0-4), breaking free for a fense to win by a score of 6-0. day,” Ladowski said. “[Lewis] threw 62-yard touchdown rush to bring 
The Chicks (1-3) wasted no time a few passes that we should have the Babes within a point at 7-6. showing off their defensive abilities, picked, but overall it was our offense The defenses reigned supreme intercepting a pass on Farley’s (1-3) that needed to step up.”” in the second half, with neither first drive of the game. however, The Chicks look to get another team running a play in the red the Finest defense was able to hold win against Badin Sunday at Labar zone. Crown said she was proud up against Lewis’s offense, forcing a at 6 p.m., while the Finest hope to of Mcglinn’s defensive play. turnover on downs at the goal line recover against Lyons at the same “Our defense had more inten­through strong pass defense led by place and time. sity than in the first couple of senior cornerback Kelsie Corriston. games,” Crown said. 
In the second half, Lewis put in Contact Manny De Jesus at Crown then capped off the vic­freshman dual-threat quarterback mdejesus@nd.edu tory in the dying seconds with Elaine Schmidt, and it proved to her 30-yard touchdown run. be a critical move as she eventu-McGlinn 13 despite the loss, Breen-Phillips ally threw the game’s deciding Breen-Phillips 6 senior captain and linebacker touchdown. Monica McNerney saw positives 
By ALEX CARSON 

Junior quarterback Caitlan Smith Sports Writer from the game. drove the ball down the field twice “This was our best game of the the LaBbar Fields. face off against Farley. for Farley, and Smith almost threw A late interception by fresh-season,” McNerney said. “We put a score on a fourth-and-goal play, man defensive back Emily Shira in some new plays on offense Contact Alex Carson at Contact Jose Fernandez at but Lewis’s lockdown defensive followed by a 35-yard rushing and [freshman receiver] Kaheke acarson@nd.edu jfernan9@nd.edu backs deflected it. Senior captain touchdown from senior captain Martinson had a big game for us.” and receiver Colleen haller said she Tara Crown sealed a second On the other side of the field, Pasquerilla East 32 Lyons 0 Ryan 31, Howard 6 was proud of the Chicks’ defensive straight victory for Mcglinn as Crown said she was pleased fol-
By JOSE FERNANDEZ By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
prowess. they defeated Breen-Phillips 13-6 lowing their second win. Sports Writer Sports Writer 
“Our defense stepped up today, Monday night. “We finally got chemistry be-and they put a lot of pressure on After trading punts to start tween the receivers and quar-In a game that featured two Ryan defeated howard 31-6 in [Farley’s] good receivers in not al-the game, both teams were able terback and we’re back where we teams with strong defenses, it was a Monday night battle under the lowing many catches,” haller said. to get on the board right be-were last year,” Crown said. Pasquerilla East’s offense that stole lights. “I was very impressed by how they fore halftime. The Shamrocks Mcglinn takes on howard on the show against Lyons in a 32-0 howard (3-2) was the first team were able to hold their offense on (2-2) capped off a 30-yard Sunday at 4:00 p.m. while Breen-victory. to score on the Wildcats this season. close fourth downs.” drive when sophomore quar-Phillips will battle Welsh Family Right from the get-go, Pasquerilla Senior captain and quarterback 
Farley senior receiver Lauren terback Katherine Petrovich at 5:00 p.m. with both games at East’s offense dictated the momen-Clare Robinson ran the ball into the tum of the game as they scored on a end zone in the third quarter to end PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
long pass play on the third play of the Ryan’s (4-0) shutout streak. game. By halftime, the Pyros had a Senior receiver Maddie Swan 19-0 lead and did not allow the Lions scored three of Ryan’s five touch-to come back. Senior defensive line downs. All three receptions came in and captain Caroline Kuse said she the red zone from freshman quar­was impressed with her team’s de-terback Kathleen Conaty. Senior fensive performance, but was quick captain and offensive lineman to point out the great offensive im-Andrea Carlson said she believes provements they have made. her team’s offense still has room for 
“We have made huge strides of-improvement. fensively,” Kuse said. “Our running “We need to work on converting game definitely improved as well as extra points, definitely,” Carlson our passing game; it was a complete said. “We only got one extra point performance offensively.” Pyro’ and that’s going to be really impor­junior quarterback Macy Mulhall tant if a game comes down to the accounted for four passing touch-line.” downs, a 20-yard punt return and despite howard’s defeat, a 25-yard reception in the fourth Robinson said the game revealed quarter. Mulhall said she couldn’t the strength of the ducks’ defense. have accumulated such numbers “We definitely didn’t play to our without her teammates. potential but I think we showed that 
“As a quarterback you don’t have we can adjust well to the strengths to worry when you have such a great of the other team’s offense,” said group of receivers making plays,” Robinson. “[Junior defensive back] Mulhall said.  “Without a doubt our Claire Kozlowski had a key intercep­best offensive performance of the tion for us.” season.” Ryan looks to continue its win-
A shorthanded Lyons team ning streak through the regular sea-struggled to move the ball against son and into the playoffs, Carlson the Pyros’ stingy defense that to-said. taled two interceptions, including a “Two years ago we were unde­pick-six.  Senior captain and receiver feated in the regular season and lost Christina Bramanti applauded her in the first game of playoffs,” Carlson team’s effort, but said she recog-said. “We’re hoping to stay undefeat­nized that there are some areas that ed in the season and actually win in need work. the playoffs this year.” 
“defensively we are where we Both teams face their next op-need to be,” Bramanti said. “We ponents at 4 p.m. Sunday, when the just need to work on finishing plays Wildcats take on Pangborn and the whenever we can.” ducks match up against Mcglinn. 
Both these teams will play Sunday at Labar fields, as Pasquerilla East Contact Christina Kochanski at will face Cavanaugh and Lyons will ckochans@nd.edu 



ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Club Sports 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 15 
lost its second game against Valparaiso, it used the game as valuable experience for the rest of the weekend. 
In their third game, the team took Marquette to universe point, eventually losing on the last point. Notre dame X was unable to secure a win in their fourth game against Indiana y, but came out hard in its last game against Ball State, bring­ing a second game of the day to universe point and winning 8-7. The win secured the team a spot in the championship bracket for Sunday. 
On Sunday, Notre dame X worked together well, but were unable to secure a win against Case Western or Valparaiso. Fink and sophomore Brianna Bocker led the team handling, and herrero, junior Kristen Collins and sophomore Emily dowling ran the field when it came to cutting. The team had great defense by rookies Caitlin McCreary, Mary Kate Anderson and Erin Cobb. Seniors Maureen Brown and Mary Kate Scavo, as well as rookies Mary hermann and Kimber Nelson, all had great layout d’s. 
The Notre dame y team, lead by senior captain Molly Carmona, opened the week­end against Illinois y. The game ended in a loss, but the team gained experience and the players were able to cre­ate a chemistry that would be useful throughout the week­end. Notre dame y was un­able to secure a win in its first four games, losing later to Case Western, Towson and dayton. however, they came out strong 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
in their last game, working to­gether well to earn their first win against hope College with a score of 6-2. On Sunday, the team played Ball State, gain­ing an early lead but losing momentum in the second half and suffering a 9-7 loss. In its closing game againstran expe­rienced Michigan State team, Notre dame y was able to see how much they had improved over the weekend. Rookies and returners meshed to take the game to universe point. The last point went to State, but the team was very proud of all of its players.rCarmona, graduate student Kelly gilmou, and soph­omore heather Fredrickson led the team with beautiful throws, and senior Elaine Rose and sophomore Mara Jurkovic had stellar in-cuts and deep looks. Rookie Julia Butterfield played great on both offense and de­fense, and rookies Katie Martin and Marissa Ray showed great improvement throughout the weekend. 
Both teams were extremely happy with their performances and look forward to more great tournaments. 




in Myrtle Beach, S.C. Now, the new players to experience ulti-
Club Sports 
Irish are hoping to earn one of mate in the tournament setting 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
the wild card bids to nationals. early in the fall. Notre dame’s 

Luke deTrempe contributed Regardless of whether the team home tournament typically 
with 79s. Overall, counting five plays in nationals, the Irish boasts beautiful, early-autumn 
scores, the Irish fired a 378, have had another successful weather, but this year, players 
which was good for a four-shot season, which has seen an in-were subjected to rain, wind 
victory over Purdue and seven flux of young talent and growth and cold. 
shots over Wisconsin. in the size of the club. despite the tough condi-Including a third place fin-tions, all 12 of the men’s teams 
ish two weeks ago at the first Men’s ultimate frisbee showed up and played com-
great Lakes Regional, Notre Notre dame ultimate held petitively on both Saturday 
dame’s club team fell just short Whitesmoke XVIII this weekend and Sunday. The Notre dame 
of Purdue for earning the re-at Jr. Irish Fields. Whitesmoke men’s team had enough players 
gion’s bid for nationals, which has been around as long as the to split into three teams — X, 
will take place November 16-17 club has and is a chance for y, and Z — each with a mix of returning players and rookies. 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
Nine other teams from around the Midwest came to South Bend to participate in the early-season trial tournament. 
Notre dame X, seeded fifth in their pool, started Saturday pool play off with a strong 13-7 victory over Kalamazoo College, the No. 3 seed. Junior Jason Wassel and senior Jordan Lange provided strong leader­ship both on and off the field. The team carried its momen­tum through a second-round bye into its matchup against Michigan State’s B team, win­ning 13-8 with encouraging performances from freshmen Joe Nolan and Andrew deSantis. Their third game re­sulted in a 13-6 loss to No. 2 seed Marquette, who would go on to win the tournament on Sunday. Nd X split their last two games of pool play on Saturday afternoon and Sunday morn­ing, finishing third in its pool with a 3-2 record and breaking seed. As the third seed, the Irish entered the fifth place bracket, 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 


facing Central Michigan in the first round of bracket play. The rain and wind both picked up, leading to more turnovers and longer points, but sophomores Jonathan Cernanec and Jeremy doyle embraced the elements, displaying mental toughness that inspired the rest of the team to continue playing hard. Nd X, however, was outmatched by Central Michigan, falling 13­10, moving them into the sev­enth place game for a rematch against Michigan State B. Junior Jonathan Cobian had an excep­tional game, propelling Nd X to defeat Michigan State B 9-6 and finish seventh overall. 
Notre dame y, seeded sixth in the same pool as Notre dame X, started off Saturday morning against Marquette. despite ex­cellent handling from freshman Jacob Scobey and sharp cutting from freshman dan Verzuh, Nd y fell to Marquette 13-7. After losses to Case Western Reserve, Michigan State B, and Notre dame X, Nd y was able to rally behind junior Steven Zurawski and sophomore Matt Farrell to take down Kalamazoo College 11-6 on Sunday morning. Sophomore Jack Szigety and ju­nior Keith Podgorski led Nd y to two victories on Sunday morn­ing over Case Western B and Notre dame Z, securing ninth place overall. 
Notre dame Z, seeded sixth in the other pool, began the tournament with three losses to Indiana Wesleyan, Michigan State and Central Michigan. Though the losing streak pre­vented them from reaching the championship bracket on Sunday, Nd Z played up to the level of their competition, with notable performances from seniors Conor hanney and Kyle McCall. The team’s fourth game on Saturday was against Case Western B; smooth han­dler motion between sopho­more Joe Norby and junior Peter hall led to a decisive 13-3 victory. Nd Z fell to North Park on Sunday morning to finish 1-4 in pool play, but their re­cord was not indicative of how well they played. Rookies Jack hefferon, Pat McMahon and danny Fitz helped the team to a first-round victory on Sunday over Kalamazoo College, 15-3. Nd Z matched up against Notre dame y in the ninth place game, but fell 15-13 in a rainsoaked game. 
The teams will recombine and practice for a few more weeks together before travel­ing to granville, Ohio to play in their second fall tournament Nov. 16-17. 
Men’s rowing 
On Saturday, Notre dame welcomed Michigan State to South Bend to hold a joint prac­tice on the St. Joseph River. 
After a brief delay getting onto the water, the teams split into the novice and varsity groups for the first practice of the day. The four varsity boats (two from each school) raced against each other in three, 10-minute piec­es. The pieces were done at rates far below normal race rates, as they were intended more to foster a competitive practice between the two sides than to truly simulate a race. Both Irish boats (the Varsity and the JV) beat the two Spartan boats in all three pieces. 
The novice team sent out two boats as well. They raced Michigan State in five, seven-minute pieces. The Novice 8 won all pieces by a substantial margin, and the 2N boat raced competitively with both of the Spartan boats. 
After a short break for lunch, the two sides reconvened to practice for a second time. This time, they held 10, one-minute pieces with the Irish varsity boats once again defeating the two Spartan varsity boats.  The novice boats did the same work­out with similar results. 
It was a rather short practice, due in equal parts to the short pieces and the heavy rains that began shortly after the teams took to the water. 
Men’s hockey 
Notre dame played two tight games this weekend against Calvin College in grand Rapids, 
Mich.  The  Irish  dropped  the  
game  on Friday, 4-1, despite  
some  excellent  goaltend­ 

ing by junior Justin dancu. Freshman Zach Flynn scored the lone goal for the Irish, his first as a member of the team. The Irish fared much better in Saturday’s game, winning a thriller that went into a shoot­out. The Irish had a 3-2 lead going into the third period, but lost the lead less than a minute into the period. Minutes later, Calvin scored again, to take a 4-3 lead. The teams traded goals, and with 12 seconds left, senior forward Parker Teufel banged home a rebound to tie the game at five. Overtime saw no goals, so a shootout occurred. Sophomore goalie Nick Stasack came up big on the shootout, allowing only one goal on four attempts. The Irish got goals from sopho­more JC Tellez and freshman Abdel Madina to win the game. The men’s club hockey team heads to Wisconsin next week­end for two games, before re­turning home to host uSC. 
Women’s ultimate frisbee 
The Irish hosted their home tournament, Whitesmoke, this past weekend at the Jr. Irish Soccer Fields in South Bend. Seventeen women’s teams from across the Midwest attended, two of which were the Notre dame X and y teams, which were evenly split to provide lots of playing time for returners and rookies alike. 
Notre dame X, led by senior captains Kelsey Fink and Eliza herrero, opened the week­end against Kenyon College. The Irish came out strong, se­curing a lead in the first half that they would not let go. The game ended with an 11-6 Notre dame win. Although the team 
see CLuB SPORTS PAGE 14 



CLUB SPORTS 

Men’s soccer dominates Ferris 
Special to The Observer 
Men’s soccer 
As the end of the regular sea­son approaches, Notre dame competed in one of its most im­portant weekends of the year, splitting games against Ferris State and regional tournament contenders grand Valley State. 
The Irish began the week­end taking on grand Valley on Saturday, a tough test for both sides where the winners would be in a good position to earn a spot in the postseason. Notre dame started strong, enjoying several spells of possession in dangerous areas, but was un­able to carve out many clear chances. The closest the Irish came in the first half came when freshman Joe grady rat­tled a free kick off the bar, after graduate student Kyle Smith was brought down on the edge of the box on the end of a darting run into the area.grand Valley State got back into the game in the second half, holding the ball in midfield, but making relatively little progress in the attacking third thanks in large part to strong performances by two midfielders turned defend­ers, senior Brian Carrion and sophomore Ryan Bonner. The teams entered halftime 0-0 with neither team really imposing themselves on the match. The second half started with more of the same, with both sides struggling to get out of midfield. grand Valley were able to net a goal midway through the sec­ond half after the striker took the ball off a defender near mid­field, carried into the area and slotted the ball low inside the far post. desperate for a goal, the Irish turned up the pressure and were able to regain control for a time, until grand Valley put another one past the Irish off of a well-placed corner kick. It was all attack from the Irish then on, removing a defender in favor of another forward, and while they were able to keep the ball in dangerous areas and cre­ate chances, including several corners and free kicks, it was too little too late and grand Valley walked away with a cru­cial 2-0 win. 
undeterred, the Irish re­turned on Sunday to face peren­nial powerhouse Ferris State, looking to get back to their winning ways. despite fielding a small squad riddled with in­juries, the Irish flew out of the gates, dominating possession from the start. After several good chances, the first goal of the game came from a freshmen connection, with grady play­ing through Liam heneghan, who found the near post for his first goal for the club. The Irish struck again only minutes later when sophomore Cooper Schreibeis beat his man down the end line and picked out se­nior Alex McIntyre in front of goal to put the Irish up 2-0. 
In the second half Notre dame continued to control the possession and chance cre­ation. The Irish put their third past Ferris State thanks to se­nior Matt Marturano’s strong effort on the edge of the area, that ended with a left-footed shot lashed inside the far post. Senior Juan Alvarez was the next to find the back of the net, gathering the ball 20 yards out and curling a shot into the far corner for his first of the season. Schreibeis continued his good form with a late goal when he beat the keeper with a low driv­en ball from range. Junior Mike dorritie and freshman Connor Bliss split time in net, record­ing several important saves to preserve another clean sheet, and helping the Irish to a com­fortable 5-0 win to cap off the weekend. 
Club baseball 
In the club’s first-ever game, Notre dame’s bats came alive as they throttled Columbia 14-1 in a five-inning, mercy-rule game behind some very strong pitching and great plate appearances. 
In the second game of the dou­bleheader on Saturday, the Irish won 6-1, powered by a three-run moonshot from junior John Plantemoli, and a shut­down pitching performance (6 Ks, 1 ER) by sophomore Mike Cyrocki. unfortunately, Sunday morning’s 8 a.m. game was rained out, so the Irish will have to wait until it’s conference schedule starts up in the spring to get back on the diamond. 
Club golf 
On Saturday, the Notre dame arrived at Morningstar golfers Club in Waukesha, Wisc., for the second NCCgA great Lakes Regional. The event was sched­uled to be a 36-hole competi­tion on Saturday and Sunday with approximately ten teams competing. 
On Saturday however, strong rains hit the course, and golfers were only able to finish around three holes.  As a result play for the day ended, and it became an 18-hole event with a restart on Sunday. 
On Sunday, the Irish came out strong led by the performance of junior dan Wiegandt, who finished as the tournament’s medalist with a 69. Junior greg Bourdon added a 75, good for a top five finish. Senior Chris dillon shot 77, graduate student Eddie hjerpe shot 78, and fresh­men Jordan Milo and 
see CLuB SPORTS PAGE 15 
Jacobson 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 

disappointment should be tempered by the fact that Notre dame remains undefeated 10 games into the season, a feat that has not been accomplished since the 1988 Irish squad started the season 10-0-2. Notre dame was one of just five division I teams that entered Tuesday night without a loss. Wins are obviously preferable to ties – both in terms of build­ing confidence and collecting points in the ACC conference standings – but four draws in 10 games is more of a statisti­cally anomaly than a reason for concern. Senior goalkeeper Patrick Wall and his defenders have yet to allow more than one goal in a match, stymying op­ponents like Maryland’s senior forward Patrick Mullins, who last year took home the M.A.C. hermann Trophy for the best player in NCAA soccer. hold opponents like that to just one goal, and even a small amount of offense can take a team a long way. 
Even so, it’s not time to de­clare the Irish NCAA tourna­ment favorites. Frankly, it’s not time to ordain any team a fa­vorite for the title. Soccer is an unpredictable and unforgiving game; a single fluke goal at an inopportune time can send a dominant team packing. Notre dame knows this better than anyone: the Irish were the top team in the country when then-No. 16 Indiana ended their season in the third round of the 2012 NCAA tournament with a goal in the second overtime period. 
But right now, the Irish look awfully good. They don’t blow teams out – their greatest margin of victory so far came in back-to-back 3-0 wins over Syracuse and Michigan in mid-September – but a slate of prominent ACC opponents and high-profile non-conference rivals has ensured that each match is exciting up to the 90th (or 100th or 110th) minute. Senior forward harrison Shipp, often called “the little wizard,” has lived up to his moniker, outmaneuvering opponents with several inches and several dozen pounds on him, and getting spectacular scoring attempts even on nights like Tuesday, when he doesn’t put the ball in the net. Sophomore 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
midfielder Patrick hodan and senior forward Leon Brown are dangerous off the bench. Junior defender Max Lachowecki has developed a taste for strik­ing, and junior forward Vince Cicciarelli celebrated the first goal of his college career, which he scored against Indiana on Oct. 2, by scoring another Tuesday. 
I can’t tell you how far the Irish will go in the NCAA tour­nament, or whether they’ll move from third place in the ACC conference standings. But this much is for sure: if you’re not watching, you’re missing out. 
Contact at Vicky Jacobsen vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




M Soccer 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 
said. “having said that I thought they were always very danger­ous, I felt we dominated the game and had better opportunities.” 
The Irish dominated the first period of play and much of the game as they outshot the Terrapins 23-9. The Irish had a total of eight shots on goal in the first period, while the Terrapins only had one. Senior forward harrison Shipp and sophomore midfielder Patrick hodan both tallied two shots on goal. 
despite the attempts at goal of the Irish, the teams ended the first period scoreless. 
The Terrapins came into the second period with two shots at goal immediately within the first 10 minutes of the period. The Irish stepped up their attack game with Shipp and junior for­ward Vince Cicciarelli leading the pack. 
Cicciarelli had the first of his four looks at goal in the 56th minute from the 18-yard box, but was taken down by the Maryland defenders. 
In the 61st minute, Cicciarelli found a break with no Maryland defenders stepping up to block him and scored on an assist from fifth-year senior defender grant Van de Casteele to get the ball pasd Maryland goalkeeper fresh­man Zack Steffen. This marked Cicciarelli’s second career goal, following his first career goal last Wednesday in Notre dame’s 2-0 victory over Indiana. 
The Irish saw their 1-0 lead slip a way when Maryland freshman forward Patrick Mullins scored on an assist from junior mid­fielder Mikias Eticha in the 72nd minute. 


The Irish could not tally anoth­er goal in the remaining 18 min­utes, and the Irish and Terrapins entered the first overtime period. 
The Irish came up scoreless in the first OT despite an attempt at goal by Shipp, who came down the right side and missed find­ing the back post by inches. The second overtime proved no dif­ferent as the Notre dame and Maryland offenses continued to fight for that one last goal to win the game. 
Shipp said even though the team did not score in overtime to get the win, the team had a strong OT performance. 
“We had a successful over­time game against Clemson last week, so we just wanted to stay 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
aggressive,” Shipp said. “We out-shot [Maryland] in the game, so we knew we had the upper hand, but unfortunately I had a shot that went wide and [sophomore midfielder Connor] Klekota had a shot that hit almost the outside of the post, so hopefully next time in overtime those go in.” 
Cicciarellli agreed that the team played very well in over­time but had some unlucky breaks. 
“Our fitness really played a huge role there, and we were pushing it down their throats the whole game, but just couldn’t get one [goal].” he said. 
The Irish head into their next game against Virginia Tech on Friday at Thompson Field in Blacksburg, Va., at 7 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at klaughr1@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles look to continue success 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
Sports Writer 
After putting an end to a five-game losing streak by taking two of their last three matches, the Belles (7-11, 5-5 MIAA) will take on some familiar faces when they host Alma (9-10, 4-6 MIAA) tonight. The last time these two teams faced off on Sept. 7, the Belles were victorious in four sets (25-21, 16-25, 25-22, 26-24). 
despite this, Belles coach Toni Elyea wants her team to treat this match no differently than any other match, to avoid falling into a false sense of security. 
“We know they did not play their best the last time we faced them,” Elyea said. “They will be coming out on fire. We need to come out focused and ready to react well to anything they throw our way.” 
Elyea said she looks to empha­size her team’s defensive strength during the match, as well as chal­lenging players such as freshman setter Clare McMillan to play a major role. 
“Our serve-receive has been fantastic, as well as our defense,” Elyea said. “We will need to play disciplined and aggressive in all areas tomorrow to get the win. We will also need to attack well. We will be looking for Clare to set 


Football 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 
are doing. you have to let the cor­ners know what you’re doing so they know what they’re doing. It’s more a whole unison thing that you kind of need to experi­ence in a game and practice on a consistent basis to become fluent at it and be able to actually per­form the best you can.” 
So for Redfield, who notched 65 tackles, four fumble recover­ies and four interceptions to go along with 757 receiving yards and six touchdowns as a senior safety and receiver at Mission Viejo high School, the transi­tional phase to major college football has been difficult. 
“I feel frustrated still,” he said. “I still don’t have everything down like I obviously want to, still making the little mistakes that you obviously need to get down to be a big contributor in the game, and that’s why obvi­ously I’m not there. It’s a process, like the coaches keep telling me, and I’ve tried to accept it. But it’s still frustrating, obviously.” 
Redfield added that, upon coming to Notre dame, he quick­ly realized how little he knew, which served as a “wake-up call.” 
“It’s humbling,” he said later. “you’re not the greatest player. you’re not the best player out there. you need to just under­stand that. … But I’m learning a lot and I’m in the position that I up into more of a leadership role tomorrow night and come out confident and ready to run our offense.” 
McMillan has compiled 659 assists this season, averaging 9.55 per set. Elsewhere, the Belles will look to rely on the hard-nosed play of junior outside hitter Kati Schneider and sophomore out­side hitter Katie hecklinski, who average 4.00 and 2.73 kills per set respectively. On defense, junior libero Meredith Mersits leads the team with 304 total digs this sea­son and a 4.34 dig-per-set average. The Scots will look to rely on senior middle hitter Lea Kooster who leads the team with 165 kills this season, as well as the bal­anced attack of senior middle hit­ter Rebecca Trosper (107 kills) and junior outside hitter Laura Walker (106 kills). Elyea has no illusions of this being an easy match. 
“If both teams are playing well it will be a tough battle,” Elyea said. “We know that every time we step out onto the court, it’s an opportunity to play well together as a team. That has been our fo­cus for this season and will con­tinue to be our focus.” The Belles take on the Scots tonight at Saint Mary’s. Play time begins at 7 P.M. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 
should be.” 
Redfield praised safeties coach Bob Elliott for his teaching meth­ods and said he has learned from older safeties like junior Matthias Farley and senior Austin Collinsworth. With the guidance of his elders, Redfield said he has finally begun to feel more comfortable as a defensive signal-caller. 
“Just recently I feel like I’ve gotten a better grasp on the de­fense,” he said. “I still made mis­takes today in practice, though. But, yeah, it’s the little things that really count in this game.” 
With the bye week before Notre dame’s showdown with uSC on Oct. 19, Redfield has a chance to get more work. Kelly said Sunday he will treat this week differently for different players. Established players will receive more rest, while certain less proven players will have more opportunities to improve. Redfield said he views the bye week as a chance to push for more playing time. 
“This is great,” he said. “This bye week is critical for me to keep growing and get the little things down that I need to get down to play in a game and perform and actually make an impact.” 
As for when that will be? 
“I’ll have my time eventually,” Redfield said. “When the coach­es feel it’s ready, I’m ready.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 


W BBall 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 
the team shares her competi­tive pride. 
“I’ve had three Final Fours, and anything less than that this year would be a failure in my eyes, being the com­petitive person that I am,” McBride said. “I know my fel­low classmates feel the same way.” 
Wade Watch and the ACC 
The ACC boasts consistent tournament contenders and talented players worthy of consideration for the Wade trophy, awarded each year to the best player in NCAA division I. 
The Women’s Basketball Coaches Association an­nounced its preseason “Wade Watch List” and named more players from the ACC than from any other conference. Achonwa and McBride both made the list. 
Overall, the Irish are excit­ed for new challenges and a chance to add their talent to the best conference in wom­en’s basketball, Mcgraw said. 
“I think there’s a lot of good things we’re looking forward to,” Mcgraw said. “It’s a change of scenery in a way. We’re looking at a lot of new teams that we don’t know a lot about or haven’t played before … So I think there’s a little bit of apprehension and anxiety until you really get to see them in person, but I think it’s a great time for us to go into a new conference, especially one that’s going to be the best in women’s basketball.” 
McBride said the Irish will adjust to the ACC without los­ing their team philosophy. 
“The guards are getting up and down, and even the posts are getting up and down [in the ACC],” McBride said. “Coach has been harping on our conditioning, making sure we’re in the best shape because we’re still going to be doing our same prin­ciples, which is transition, get up and down the court … I don’t think our philoso­phy changed, but I definitely think the ACC is a lot faster.” 
Big-play Kayla 
McBride had a breakout season last year and came out strong during Notre dame’s 10-day European tour in August. McBride posted 14 points and 5.3 rebounds per game in the international exhibitions. 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

Notre dame had its first day  fantastic. She actually is head  
of official preseason practice  and shoulders above the rest  
on Oct. 1, but McBride is al­ of the team right  now.  She’s  
ready in the full swing of bas- playing such great basketball  
ketball, Mcgraw said.  … I think she’s going to be the  
“I’m  expecting  big,  big  one  we  count  on  to  do just  
things from Kayla,” Mcgraw  about everything.”  
said. “I think she is just in  
phenomenal  shape.  She’s  Contact Samantha Zuba at  
lean; she’s strong.   She looks  szuba@nd.edu  





CROSSWORD | WILL ShORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChRISTOPhER BRuCKER 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hILLARy MANgIAFORTE 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | ThE MEPhAM gROuP 


HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Angus T. Jones, 20; Matt damon, 43; Sigourney Weaver, 64; Chevy Chase, 70. 
Happy Birthday: Refrain from sharing too much personal information. Emotional problems involving friends or partners will develop if you neglect your personal promises, get mixed up in outside activities or take on unnecessary responsibilities. you will be inclined to overdo, overindulge and overspend. do your best to keep life simple, and you’ll minimize interference. Avoid impulsive or risky behavior. honesty will help you avoid regret. your numbers are 7, 10, 12, 20, 28, 36, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Control personal spending. Cut your overhead wherever possible. Focus on the changes you can make that will boost your income. A romantic relationship may be tempting, but don’t get involved in a secret affair. Personal changes will lift your spirits.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take one step at a time. don’t let anyone rush you into a decision, especially if it has to do with medical or financial issues. Expand your inter­ests at home by acquiring something that you can add to your entertainment.  


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Confusion due to unexpected changes at home or with a relationship will leave you feeling uncertain. Ask questions and get to the bottom of what has transpired so that you can move forward with confidence. Take care of your health and well-being.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Explore new avenues, offer ideas and see if you receive any interest from potential collaborators. you’ll learn a lot from the discussions you have with someone from a different background. don’t feel the need to make a snap decision. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expect to face opposition or demanding individuals. Protect your home, family and finances from anyone trying to convince you to do something extravagant. A misunderstanding or perceived meddling will cause upset. Find out the truth before taking action. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a leadership position if you feel strongly about a concern that has arisen in your community. Protect your physical and emotional wellness by taking precautions when it comes to situations that might lead to injury or illness.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you have more professional choices than you realize. Stretch your talents and attributes, and you will find ways to utilize your skills master­fully. Take the initiative to broaden your knowledge and to step into a situation that has a learning curve.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Talk through any personal matters that have been bother­ing you. deception or holding back will lead to a situation that worsens with time. don’t jeopardize your chance to reach a deadline or finalize an important contract or position. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): difficulties with institutions or agencies will arise due to misinformation. The changes you initiate at home will end up being beneficial. Travel and physical challenges may pose a problem. Love is highlighted. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Show your ambition and take over if it will help you get ahead. Offer an innovative idea that will encourage a partnership. Refrain from making an impulsive purchase or donation based solely on what someone else tells you. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): do your best, try your hardest, and follow your heart. don’t let negativity take over or stand between you and your chances for success. Posi­tive change begins with taking meaningful action. Be where the action is. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t keep secrets or hide information from someone you do business with or whom you are connected to emotionally. Someone from your past will be able to offer you something that had been missing. honesty will deter­mine your destiny. 


Birthday Baby: you are secretive, mysterious and magnetic. you are courageous, intense and energetic. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNuREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  


ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 
MEN’S SOCCER | Nd 1, MARyLANd 1 
Irish strike first, hold on for fourth tie of the year 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 2 Irish battled ACC rival No. 5 Maryland down to the wire and pushed the game into a sec­ond overtime to finish the match as a 1-1 draw Tuesday at Alumni Stadium in South Bend, Ind. 
In what was the first and last meeting of Notre dame and Maryland as fellow members of the ACC, the Irish (6-0-4, 3-0-2) and the Terrapins (5-2-4, 4-0-1) left everything on the field in a fight between two aggressive offensives. 
Irish coach Bobby Clark said playing against Maryland is al­ways a great matchup, and de­spite the tie he felt the team had a strong performance. 
“Maryland is always a well-pre­pared team, and I felt very happy about our performance,” Clark 
see M SOCCER PAGE 17 

Victory in a tie 

Irish emerging as ACC, NCAA contenders 

Vicky Jacobson 
Sports Writer 
Another night, another hard-fought draw for the No. 2 Irish. 
The small but vocal crowd at Alumni Stadium witnessed what has become something of a trend for Notre dame (6-0-4, 3-0-3 ACC). Once again, the Irish proved they could hang with a well-regarded top-10 side, this time playing No. 5 Maryland (5-2-3, 4-0-2) to a 1-1 stalemate. Once again, Notre dame finished with many more opportunities on offense, tak­ing 23 shots to the Terrapins’ nine. And once again, the Irish were left with the knowledge that the potential winning goal 
– several of them, in fact – were mere inches away from their target. 
But that minor 
see JACOBSEN PAGE 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish enter ACC unsure of identity 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
Sports Writer 
“We are Nd.” 
It’s a common cheer at women’s basketball games, but the Irish will now have to decide what it means to be Nd in the ACC. 
Notre dame will form a new team identity as its first season in the ACC develops, Irish coach Muffet Mcgraw said. 
“We’re still looking for our identity,” Mcgraw said. “I don’t think we’re exactly sure what our M.O. is going to be. What are our strengths? We know some of them individu­ally, but as a team, what is re­ally going to be the strength of this group?” 
Four of last season’s start­ers will return for Notre dame. Senior guard Ariel 
Braker, sophomore  guard  
Jewell  Loyd,  senior  guard  
Kayla  McBride  and  senior  

forward Natalie Achonwa led the Irish to the Final Four of the NCAA tournament last season. 
Mcgraw said Achonwa and McBride will provide leader­ship for a team whose senior class has advanced to the Final Four in three straight seasons. 

“Natalie Achonwa is the leader of the team,” Mcgraw said. “I think she’s the most vocal and certainly has the experience to do that, and Kayla also has the experience and the maturity to lead. I think those two are really our leaders on the team.” 
Final Four 
Achonwa and McBride will try to lead the Irish back to where they’ve been before. If Notre dame returns to the Final Four, its senior class will become the first ever to make it to the Final Four in four straight years. 
Achonwa said she wants Notre dame to push even further and win it all. 
“We’ve been to three Final Fours,” Achonwa said. “you might as well come back with a ring, so I think our main thing is to make it to the na­tional championship game again and to win it.” 
McBride said she expects to return to the Final Four as 
see W BBALL PAGE 18 
FOOTBALL 

Redfield makes his mark on special teams 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Editor 

Max Redfield has never played quarterback, but he has had to adjust to being a defensive signal-caller. 
The freshman safety from Mission Viejo, Calif., who came to Notre dame as ESPN’s No. 23 player in the class of 2013 and a five-star prospect according to other recruiting services, has played mostly on special teams through five games for the Irish and tallied two tackles. Redfield currently starts on the kickoff, kick-return and punt-return units. 
Irish coach Brian Kelly said Sunday that Redfield is pro­gressing along and getting “clos­er and closer” to impacting the defense. 
“There’s so many calls, so many things going on out there,” Kelly said in reference to the highly-touted rookie. “It’s a quarterback position when you’re out there at that safety position. It’s not just dropping into cover two.” 
As a safety, Redfield agreed there are similarities to the quarterback position, though he said it’s not as complex. 
“I feel like to a certain extent, it’s kind of like a quarterback of the defense,” Redfield said Tuesday. “They have to be very demonstrative with their calls to different positions, make sure they’re in the right spot and then obviously, yourself, you have to know the call and know your re­sponsibilities for different situa­tions as well.” 
Redfield said he felt he was demonstrative in high school, but it’s harder to be the same way in college without a firm grasp of the defense and all the calls. As a 6-foot-1, 194-pound fluid athlete, Redfield said the most challenging transition to the collegiate level has not been physically playing. 


“It’s more, probably, the com­munication,” he said. “you have to know what the linebackers 
see FOOTBALL PAGE 17 





