The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 102 | MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Pope Benedict XVI bids final farewell 
By SAM STRYKER 
assistant managing editor 
on wednesday, an estimat­ed 150,000 people gathered in st. peter’s square in vatican city to say goodbye to pope emeritus benedict Xvi in his final public address — and notre dame junior eliza nagle was among them. 
nagle, who is study­ing abroad at John cabot university in rome, ar­rived at the vatican at 8 
a.m. wednesday and waited three hours for former pope benedict to make his appear­ance. she went through a long line and tight security and finally squeezed in to find a seat for the address. 
“it was pretty amazing,” she said. “people were going cra­zy when he was going around in his little pope-mobile. he was like a rock star.” 
nagle described the atmo­sphere at wednesday’s event as one of “gratefulness” and said people from the world over made the pilgrimage to the heart of the roman catholic church to bid fare­well to the former pope benedict. 
“people were excited to hear benedict’s last words to the public,” nagle said. “There were tons of flags and banners. i didn’t expect to see so many people traveling from so far away. people from all over the world, a lot from america. 
“The atmosphere was noth­ing like anything i have ever experienced. it was very emotional.” 


pope emeritus benedict’s resignation, the first in six centuries by a pope, took ef­fect 5 p.m. central european Time on Thursday. while ju­nior Kelsie corriston, who is also spending the semester studying in rome, was busy taking a midterm exam dur­ing wednesday’s event, she said she was able to see for­mer pope benedict leave the vatican on Thursday evening. 
she said the vatican was “super packed” as attendees 
see Farewell PAGE 4 



huang chosen as dean 
Observer Staff Report 
roger huang shed the title of in­terim and now serves as the martin 
J. gillen dean of the mendoza college of business, according to a university press release Friday. 
“i am honored and humbled by this opportunity to assume the deanship of the mendoza college 

of business,” huang said in the re­lease. “i am inspired by the vision of the founder of the business school, cardinal John o’hara, who said that the primary function of com­merce is service to mankind. 
“This vision sets the mendoza college apart form other business schools, and i look forward to fur-
Robert Huang
thering our vision of business as a 
martin J. gillen dean
powerful force for good.” 
huang earned the appointment as interim dean of the college when former dean carolyn woo left last year to serve as president of catholic relief services. as interim dean, huang finalized a partner­ship between notre dame and renmin university in beijing to 
see dean PAGE 3 


Senior artist releases EP 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 

news writer  
as  notre  dame  seniors  
balance  enjoying  the  end  
of their college careers and  
finding  a  foothold  in  the  
working world, senior dylan  
walter vocalized that experi­ 
ence in a full-length ep titled  
“Tightrope,”  which  he  re­ 
leased Friday. Courtesy of Dylan Walter  
walter,  an  independent Senior Dylan Walter, also known as D. Montayne, performs at Leg- 
hip-hop artist, has been  re-ends. He recently released a full-length EP titled “Tightrope.”  
leasing music since his fresh­ 
man year at  notre  dame.  full-length p roject released  
“Tightrope”  is  the  fourth  under  his  moniker  “d.  see arTisT PAGE 6  


sullivan-martin ticket wins election 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 

at the conclusion of a one-ticket race, saint mary’s students elected juniors Kat sullivan and maddy martin on Thursday to serve as the 2013-14 student body presi­dent and vice president. 
sullivan, a communica­tions studies major whose mother was student body president of saint mary’s in 1976, said she is looking forward to stepping into the role april 1. 
“it was really exciting and i was glad that other stu­dents were just as [excited as] we were,” sullivan said. “They realized the impor­tance of voting, regardless of the fact that we were 
see TicKeT PAGE 5 


susTainabiliTy PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 9 scene PAGE 10 men’s lacrosse PAGE 20 bengal bouTs PAGE 20 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
If you could go to any concert, which would it be? 

Matthew Gervais 


Adrian Zaya 
junior visitor 

Keough hall “imogen heap.” 

“coldplay.” 
Patrick O’Hara 


Kevin Siefert 
sophomore 

junior 
st. edward’s hall 

sorin college 
“2pac.” 

“mariah carey.” 
Daniel Wrapp 
sophomore st. edward’s  hall 
“ludacris.” 


Nick Thorsrud 
freshman 
stanford hall 
“a combination of Queen and the red hot chili peppers.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

mel Flanagan Jack hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

carolyn hutyra brian hartnett nicole mcalee mary green 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
steph wulz courtney cox 
Photo Viewpoint 

Ethics Cafe Men’s Basketball Physics Colloquium Hospitality Lunch Writing Workshop 
suzanna pratt dan brombach 
DeBartolo Hall Joyce Center Nieuwland Science Geddes Hall Coleman-Morse 3 p.m.-4 p.m. 7 p.m. Hall 11:45 p.m.-1 p.m. Center Learn conflict-The Irish face off 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Proceeds benefit 1 p.m.-2 p.m. 
Corrections 

resolution strategies. against the Red Storm. Presentation by Dr. the Catholic Peace Discuss strategies for 
The observer regards itself as For graduate students. Fernando A. Montes. Fellowship. large writing projects. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Women’s Basketball Four:7 Catholic Film: “Even the Rain” Zen Meditation Film: “The Master” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Joyce Center Fellowship DeBartolo Performing Coleman-Morse DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall Arts Center Center Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
The Irish take on the 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:15 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-8:50 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Huskies. Student-led Catholic A Spanish director Practice sitting and A Naval veteran 
we can correct our error. 

fellowship. makes a film in Bolivia. walking meditation. returns from war. 


Thesis project goes green 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
news writer 
when senior graphic de­sign major megan malley chose sustainability as the topic of her thesis project, she discovered more than 100 colleges across the country have banned the sale of plastic water bottles on campus. 
“i was surprised that a university as socially and environmentally conscious as notre dame has not con­sidered doing the same,” she said. 
Today, malley will show­case a portion of notre 
“Every building has at least one drinking fountain with clean and safe water, and over 32 have hydration stations that fill large bottles in seconds.” 
Megan Malley 
senior 
dame’s waste through an large artistic installation on south Quad. she collected 1,000 plastic water bottles from around campus, and she will display the bottles to demonstrate the scale of waste generated by plastic bottle use. 
malley said she hopes displaying the statistic in a physical way will help peo­ple understand the environ­mental impact of the waste more clearly. 
“growing up in the northwest, i was always taught to consider my car­bon footprint, so my family recycled and composted ev­erything we could,” malley, a resident of seattle, said. 


Through her research, malley discovered plastic water bottles are the fast­est growing form of waste in the united states. she said she was incredulous such a large environmental im­pact results from a product whose manufacture is un­necessary in the first place. 
The use of disposable wa­ter bottles is even more un­necessary at notre dame than most other locations, malley said. 
“every building has at least one drinking fountain with clean and safe water, and over 32 have hydra­tion stations that fill large bottles in seconds,” malley said. “The convenience of clean tap water makes it exceptionally easy to avoid spending money on water bott les.” 
malley said her research demonstrated that advertis­ing from the plastic water bottle industry leads con­sumers to believe bottled water is somehow safer than tap water. in reality, tap water undergoes stricter and more frequent health checks, she said. 
malley said she hopes her thesis project will educate the campus about the day­to-day impact of using dis­posable bottles and spark activism in the notre dame community. her education tools include today’s instal­lation, her website, take­awayplastic.com and a book and a film she is creating for the project. 
“eventually, i hope to en­able an official campus-wide ban [on the sale of 
plastic  water  bottles],”  
malley said.  
malley  said  students  

should more closely con­sider the impact their daily habits have on the environ­ment. as an academic com­munity, notre dame should be more conscious of its ef­fect on the environment, she said, and should make decisions to reduce plastic waste as much as possible. 
“by refusing to purchase bottled water, a college campus can substantially decrease the plastic waste generated each year,” she said. 
malley’s thesis project will be displayed in the snite museum of art from apr. 7 to may 20. The exhibit will include her book, video and photos of her installation. 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 

Students rally at midnight madness 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
students flocked to the angela athletic Facility Thursday night for saint mary’s annual pseudo-pep rally, midnight madness, and the announcement of the Tostal performer at the college this spring. 
Freshman, sophomore, junior and senior students donned their designated class colors and competed for class spirit points by participating in relays, dancing and other games. The student activities board (sab), which hosts the event, distributed free give­aways, including T-shirts fea­turing the event name and each class’s graduating year. 
despite the abundance of games, the most anticipated of midnight madness is the an­nouncement of the spring’s Tostal performer. The board announced Timeflies, an elec­tro-pop duo, will perform on campus this spring. 
“it’s a great way to get the classes bonding through com­petition,” junior bridget haines said. “we’re basically rewarded with for playing games, having fun and dancing around with free T-shirts.” 
The saint mary’s cheer team also led a coordinated cheer and fired up the crowd with chants. 
“it’s a great event to show not only class spirit, but smc spir­it,” junior eileen cullina said. “nights like these make me re­ally happy that i am a belle.” 
The event, typically hosted after spring break, is one of the only organized times in the year in which classes intermix. 

sophomore Kelsey collins said the event felt similar to a sisterhood coming togeth­er. Fellow sophomore allison burns agreed. 
“i feel as if i finally under­stand what saint mary’s is about,” burns said. “The sense of community is overwhelming 
— in a good way.” 
sab president and senior liz Kraig said this year’s midnight madness had the largest at­tendance in history, especially with the freshman class. 
The newest members of saint mary’s discovered the event 
“I feel as if I finally understand what Saint Mary’s is about. The sense of community is overwhelming— in a good way.” 
Allison Burns 
sophomore 
solidified their place in the college’s community, fresh­man clarisa medina said. 
“it’s really nice to see the freshman class together,” medina, a member of the fresh­man class board, said. “it’s encouraging to see everyone excited for their next three years here.” 
midnight madness is delib­erately hosted halfway through the second semester to bring the campus back together at a hectic time, sab co-chair cara nozykowski, said. 
“i like the idea of us just cel­ebrating being together and what a great school we have,” nozyowski said. “plus it’s great to have a break from midterms.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
Dean 
conTinued From page 1 
offer a graduate business program for chinese students pursuing careers with nonprofit organizations. 
he has been a member of the notre dame faculty since 2000 and currently serves as the Kenneth r. meyer professor of global investment management. 
“roger is an internationally re­spected scholar who during his time at notre dame has proved to be an equally accomplished leader,” university president Fr. John Jenkins said in the press re­lease. “his reputation in his field, administrative experience, stra­tegic perspective and commit­ment to notre dame’s mission as a catholic research university are extraordinary. 
“i look forward to working closely with him as we contin­ue to build a superb business school that serves the greater good.” 




Disease center seeks awareness 

By CAROLINA WILSON 
news writer 
world rare disease day took place Thursday and the university recognized the in­ternational event Feb. 23 with lectures and discussion pan­els, but notre dame offers a number of opportunities for students to be involved with rare disease studies through­out the year. 
marisa Truong, program coordinator for the center for rare and neglected diseases 
“These studies are extremely useful for improving disease management, accelerating the time of diagnosis, and new drug development.” 
Marisa Truong 
CRND program coordinator 
(crnd), said the Feb. 23 event aimed to encourage others to become interested and in­volved in the rare disease community. 
“The goal of the event was to engage our students, faculty, patient families and our local community in a group discus­sion in order to find ways we can all collaborate to become better advocates for the rare disease community,” Truong said. 
The program consisted of four discussion panels, which focused on rare disease re­search, ethical dilemmas within rare disease work, pa­tient family stories and stu­dent outreach through rare health exchange, a collabora­tive that allows undergradu­ates to assist researchers by defining natural histories of the diseases. 
in hopes to increase aware­ness of rare and neglected diseases, crnd offers an undergraduate course titled “developing health networks 
in  rare  and  neglected  
diseases.”  
Truong said  the  course  

has developed into a student collaborative with the rare health exchange. students are trained to assess rare disease medical records in order to help physicians and research­ers develop natural history studies for them. 
“These studies are extremely useful for improving disease management, accelerating the time of diagnosis, and new drug development,” Truong said. 
additionally, the center hosts a clinical Translational seminar series in which dis­tinguished professionals who work with the rare disease community are invited to showcase the type of rare dis­ease work interested students could become involved with. 
patients and families direct­ly affected by such diseases are also given the opportunity to share their story and raise awareness for the cause, Truong said. 
“[in this] patient outreach component, students engage with patient families in order to help them submit medical records to us for assessment,” Truong said. 
Truong said implementing rare disease education at the undergraduate university level is important. in this way, more of our communities are giv­en an earlier exposure to the presence of rare diseases and can be informed of what they can do to help, she said. 
“[Through undergraduate awareness programs] people are then exposed to a variety of ways they can continue to advocate for rare diseases and are made aware of the socio­economic and cultural issues involved,” Truong said. 
Contact Carolina Wilson at cwilso16@nd.edu 
Farewell 
conTinued From page 1 

watched on large video screens pope emeritus benedict take a mercedes to the back of the city, where he boarded a helicopter bound for his summer residence of castel gandolfo. 
corriston said she was “surprised at how emotion­
al” former  pope  benedict’s  
departure  was  from  the  
vatican.  

“we talked before how it was a joyous occasion be­cause there would be a new pope, but it was actually kind of sad seeing him leave the vatican,” she said. “i didn’t really expect it to be that moving.” 
Those who have made the trek to the vatican to say a final goodbye to former pope benedict are eagerly snapping up memorabilia commemorating his time as pope and the upcoming 
papal conclave, such as spe­cial stamps. “everyone is trying to pick up the rosaries that 
“People were excited to hear Benedict’s last words to the public. There were tons of flags and banners. I didn’t expect to see so many people traveling from so far away.” 
Eliza Nagle 
junior 

[former pope benedict] has blessed before they sell out,” corriston said. 
corriston described the media presence the past few days as “insane” in rome. members of the internation­al press have interviewed both her and nagle. 
“They all want to inter­view us americans,” nagle said. “it’s just swamped everywhere, media crew everywhere.” 
in the next few weeks the college of cardinals will meet in a papal conclave to select the next leader of the catholic church. nagle said she will be well prepared for the signature white smoke and bells that signify a se­lection has been made. 
“i’m just going to be in my running clothes the whole week,” nagle said. “as soon as i hear the bells, i am go­ing to run, i am going to have my notre dame flag, and i am going to run down the streets with my notre dame flag. i think we can get there from wherever we are in the city pretty easy, but i am go­ing to be fast.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





Ticket 
conTinued From page 1 
running unopposed. it is very important that students’ voices are heard.” 
The student government association (sga) sent an email Thursday to stu­dents opening up the elec­tion. attached was a link to orgsync, the college’s new communication system, where students were able to select the sullivan-martin ticket or chose to abstain. 
current student body pres­ident maureen parsons said 262 students voted in this year’s election, and 91 per­cent of the voters were in favor of the sullivan-martin ticket. 
martin, a biology and spanish double major, said she is particularly excited about the level of voting par­ticipation from the student body. 
“obviously it wasn’t a huge surprise, but it was still really awesome that we had enough participation from the student body,” she said. “even though we were the only ticket running, i had great feedback from other students saying that Kat and i were going to be great lead­ers next year. it really gives me a lot of confidence going in to next year knowing that the student body supports us.” 
in the upcoming weeks, sullivan said she and martin will work on applications for other sga positions. They plan to release the appli­
“I would like to hit the ground running and delegate tasks from the beginning of our term as student body president and vice president.” 
Kat Sullivan 
junior 
cations for these positions Friday to give students ample time to consider applying. 
“we would also like to have an activities night geared to­wards sga so students can see what exactly sga is and how they can get involved,” sullivan said. “This will be important as we start to work towards transparency and better communication be­tween sga and the student body.” 
martin, who currently serves as the vice president of finance for sga, said she wants to alert the student body to the opportunities sga offers. outgoing lead­ers will assist the new team in learning the ropes of their jobs. 
“we will have a grace pe­riod starting april 1 where the new members essential­ly ‘shadow’ old members,” martin said. “it provides some comfort going in be­cause students have the op­portunity to ask questions; they aren’t just thrown into the system.” 
choosing the right stu­dents as fellow leaders for the college is the pair’s first priority once they take office in april, sullivan said. 
“i would also like to sit down with all the newly elected leaders on campus once big board and class board elections are final­ized,” sullivan said. “i would like to hit the ground run­ning and delegate tasks from the beginning of our term as student body president and vice president. That’s why it will be important to choose leaders as soon as we can so we can establish what roles people will take with events and initiatives over the next year.” 
student activities board (sab), student diversity board (sdb), residence hall association (rha) and class board elections will be held march 7, martin said. 
“i am so excited to contin­ue expanding sga,” martin said. “we have a really great backbone set in place, and now it comes time to add on. we can now begin to perfect and modify the structure.” 

sullivan, like martin, said she is looking forward to working alongside her fellow belles to get the student body more involved in sga. 

“i am really excited to be working with maddy,” sullivan said. “i think that we will make a good team because we have different academic and extracurricu­lar backgrounds. Through our current involvement on sga, we have seen different aspects of saint mary’s that need to be improved. 
“Together, we can change the dynamic of the student body.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Artist 
conTinued From page 1 
montayne,” a name derived from walter’s first initial and middle name. 
The ep has 10 songs, all of which walter said reflect his current state in life. a finance major, walter said he is currently applying to business jobs but hopes to eventually pursue a full-time career in music. 
“i came up with the name ‘Tightrope’ a couple months ago because in a lot of ways, i feel like i’m being sus­pended on a tightrope be­tween the different aspects of my life,” walter said. “The music aspect, the academic aspects, getting a job, … these lifestyles don’t really mix together very well and i have to find a balance be­tween them.” 
walter said the most dif­ficult part of putting the ep together was coming up with the time to write, re­cord and mix his songs. 
“i had a pretty busy se­mester, and with the foot­ball season as it was, my focus wasn’t on getting this ep done until winter break, when i did the last songs and put it together,” walter said. “The most rewarding part was the feedback i’ve been getting so far from people who hadn’t listened to my music before, people i don’t know who tell me they really liked it.” 
because he is not cur­rently affiliated with any label, walter said he records and mixes everything on his own with his personal equipment. 
“as it is right now, i’m just making music by myself,” walter said. “i have a mobile studio that i carry around in my backpack, so there are a few places where i go to re­cord and i just pack up the backpack with the micro­phones and everything.” 
walter said he would de­scribe his lyrics as thought­ful and personal, but he doesn’t see any parallels of his sound in today’s hip-hop artists. 
“i really don’t know of any artists out there that sound like me, which i think is good, so i don’t think people really associate me with anyone who is already out there,” he said. “i take that as evidence that i’m unique.” 

earlier this year, walter produced “onward to victory,” a song celebrating notre dame football that he released shortly before the irish faced the university of michigan. The song has nearly 13,000 views on walter’s youTube channel. 
he has opened for several acts at legends, including big sean in april 2011 and chris webby in February 2012. 
“at that point, big sean was just about to release his first album, so it was cool to be able to open for him before he was a superstar,” walter said. “we hung out for a while and talked about music for several hours, and shortly after that he became really famous. i’m hoping to get some more opening spots, maybe this spring.” 
walter said he is already preparing for his next proj­ect and has several new songs written but not re­corded yet. 
“ideally, i’d like to put out another ep or full-length mixtape this summer, after i graduate, if i could pull that off,” walter said. 
while he is still finding the balance between aca­demics and music, walters said he is interested in op­portunities to continue his music career after leaving notre dame. 
“i don’t care if 10 people download [the ep] or 10 mil­lion, i just want those who do to listen and get a sense of what i’m going for with this project,” walter said. “if you listen to the ep from front to back, my intention would be that people would feel that tension the title re­fers to.” 
“Tightrope” can be down­loaded for free at www. dmontaynemusic.com 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Female’s nFl tryout flops 
Associated Press 
Florham parK, n.J. — lauren silberman lined up for a kick at nFl history, took a deep breath and booted the football. 
it barely went anywhere, traveling 19 yards, and she grabbed at her right leg. 
still, it was good enough to make her the first woman to try out at a regional combine, even if her day lasted all of two kicks. 
with the 36 other kickers — all male — a handful of scouts and more than two dozen media watching in complete silence at the new york Jets’ practice facility, silberman struggled for about 20 sec­onds to place the football on the tee before measuring her steps and then trying that second kick. 
This one went only about 13 yards. 
she then asked to see a trainer and left the practice field after injuring her quad­riceps, and appeared to be slightly favoring her right leg. 
“They certainly didn’t go as far as they were in practices,” silberman said, “but i tried to work through the pain.” 
The 28-year-old silberman said she hurt her quadriceps while preparing for the try­out earlier in the week, and attributed her struggles to that. 
“i tried staying off it and waited for today,” she said. “i didn’t even take kicks in warm-ups, and, it’s pretty hard to know that you’ll be in pain, and i wanted to work through it and i certainly tried to, but i just couldn’t do it today.” 
silberman, a former club soccer player at wisconsin and ex-graduate student at miT, appeared frustrated she couldn’t complete her tryout. 
“i’ve always been an ath­lete, and i’ve always been a gamer,” she said while fight­ing back tears. “when i had the opportunity to be in the nFl, one of the world’s most competitive leagues, i absolutely had to take the chance.” 
while some fans on Twitter have praised her for breaking through in a male-dominat­ed sport, others wondered if this was just a mere pub­licity stunt. regardless, the nFl got plenty of publicity on a sunday in march for one of its regional combines — something that normally is ignored by most media. 
“i’m just really happy i had this amazing experience,” silberman said. “i might be the first woman trying out for the nFl, but i certainly hope i’m not the last.” 
while she never kicked a football in a competi­tive game, the nFl said silberman qualified for the regional combine because of her athletic background. 
“our job is to evaluate tal­ent and not leave any stone unturned,” said stephen austin, the nFl’s director of regional combines. “we want young, athletic people who have played a sport, typi­cally in college or military or small schools.” 
The regional combines de­buted in 2011, and include players who weren’t among the 333 invited to the main combine in indianapolis. The nFl is holding these sessions in 10 cities this off­season, with the most im­pressive players advancing to a super-regional in april in dallas. 
silberman paid a regis­tration fee — about $275 — and just needed to show up sunday and take her best shot at impressing scouts. 
“until they get here, we don’t have any idea of what they’re really going to turn out to do and how they’re go­ing to perform,” austin said. 
when asked if he could evaluate silberman’s perfor­mance, austin said: “That evaluation is completely incomplete.” 

silberman waited outside the facility around noon with all the other kickers, whose names were read off alpha­betically as they entered the indoor practice field. each participant was then given time to warm up before be­ing broken into groups to at­tempt three kickoffs and then a set of five field goals, the first starting from 35 yards all the way up to 55 yards. 
The 5-foot-6 silberman, with her long brown hair pulled into a ponytail, jogged up and down the sideline during warm-ups, trying to get loose as photographers and camera crews from the likes of e! entertainment network followed her every move. 

by the time her group was called, nearly 3 hours after she arrived, silberman — wearing a black T-shirt with her player tag no. 68 on the back and white socks pulled up to her knees — stretched her legs, did some push-ups and a few sit-ups. she then chatted a bit with sonny powell, another former soc­cer player from charlotte, as she waited for her turn to kick. 
“in talking to some of the other guys out here, i don’t think her being a girl had anything to do with it,” powell said. “we’re all play­ing for a job here and every­body’s nerves were going crazy.” 
silberman’s goal was to try a 60-yard field goal. That thought was squashed just minutes into her tryout. 
“you know, the distance wasn’t there, but hopefully the scouts will notice my technique,” she said. “it’s not always length.” 
silberman, who spoke for just 3 minutes after the try­out, insisted she can “do more” and “it’s too bad that this happened.” she called the scene “surreal,” adding that she “did the right thing for my body” by not continu­ing and anticipates trying to kick again in the future — possibly at another regional combine next year. 
silberman left the complex soon after that. 
“i would certainly be very, very excited and happy if i had the opportunity to try again,” she said, “but it’s not up to me. it’s up to the scouts.” 


New Orleans issues water advisory for residents 
Associated Press 
new orleans — Taps in new orleans briefly went dry sunday after a boiler’s heating flame went out of control in the immense steam generator that powers pumps for the city’s water treatment plant. 
marcia st. martin, executive director of the city’s sewerage and water board, said the out­age lasted less than 20 minutes sunday morning. Twitter came alive with residents bemoan­ing the loss about 9 a.m. central time, and mayor mitch landrieu tweeted to his followers that the city was looking into the matter. 
The loss of pressure opened the way for possible contamina­tion and water samples are being taken citywide, she said. 
she said all sample collection should be complete by sunday afternoon, and results should be available about 24 hours later. it takes that long to detect high levels of intestinal bacteria that could cause diarrhea. 
until the results are in, officials said, more than 300,000 residents on the mississippi river’s east bank should boil water for drink­ing, brushing their teeth, prepar­ing food or anything else that might bring tap water into their bodies. 

“For most of us, baths are fine,” city health officer Karen desalvo said. The exceptions are people with low immune systems, open wounds, babies or small chil­dren. infants and small children should be given sponge baths. 
most of new orleans, includ­ing the French Quarter and central business district, is on the east bank. The treatment plant there provides about 135 million gallons of drinking water a day, compared with 11 million from the west bank treatment plant. 
in october, city officials were criticized because they did not put out a notice that tap water might be contaminated until four hours after a brief shutdown at the east bank plant. 
on sunday, water pressure at the main gauge had never fallen below the state’s threshold of 15 pounds per square inch for boil advisories, but a precau­tionary notice was issued af­ter hours of consultation with state department of health and hospitals officials, city spokes­man ryan berni wrote in an email. 
a power problem in november 

2010  also  created  similar  
conditions.  
across the  city  sunday,  

some residents and businesses 
prepared water supplies to use under the boil advisory. at Zeus’ place, a pet boarding and daycare business, owner michelle ingram said she was using bottled water for the 80 dogs and 7 cats there. 
“we were sitting on 20 gallons of water and i just got 21 more,” she said. “which should last us through tomorrow afternoon — and hopefully we’ll know then whether or not the boil water or­der is still on.” 
in december 2010, after a brief power failure that did not require a boil water advisory, officials said that had been the fourth failure since the facility opened in 1903. all four were af­ter hurricane Katrina. 
about $131 million from the Federal emergency management agency has gone into work at the plant since hurricane Katrina, st. martin said. 
she said the city is about to be­gin $141 million in post-Katrina work to improve and stabilize the power system with Fema hazard mitigation grants. 
The Fema work will include installing water towers that could keep pressure high in the transmission pipes in case of a power failure. The city currently has only two, one in the farthest reaches of its west bank area and the other in eastern new orleans. 

crews demolish house above sinkhole 

Associated Press 
seFFner, Fla. — crews on sunday razed more than half of the Tampa-area home perched over a huge sinkhole that swal­lowed a man three days ago, managing to salvage some keepsakes for family members who lived there. 
Jeremy bush, 35, tried to save his brother, Jeff, when the earth opened up and swal­lowed him Thursday night. on sunday morning, bush and relatives prayed with a pastor as the home — where he lived with his girlfriend, rachel wicker; their daughter, hannah, 2; and others — was demolished and waited for firefighters to salvage any­thing possible from inside. 
early sunday morning, just before the demolition be­gan, bush and an unidenti­fied woman knelt and prayed at the mailbox in front of the home, owned by leland wicker, rachel’s grandfather, since the 1970s. 
after praying, bush and the woman walked across the street to a neighbor’s lawn to watch the demolition. 
The operator of the heavy equipment worked gingerly, first taking off a front wall. Family belongings were scooped onto the lawn gently in hopes of salvaging parts of the family’s 40-year history in the home. 

as of sunday afternoon — when demolition had stopped for the day and only a few walls of the home remained 
— a bible, family photos, a jewelry box and a pink teddy bear for hannah were among the items saved. Firefighters also were able to pick out the purse of one of the women in the home. 
cheers went up from fami­ly, friends and neighbors each time something valuable was salvaged. 

wanda carter, the daugh­ter of leland wicker, cradled the large family bible in her arms. she said her mother and father had stored baptism certificates, cards and pho­tos between the pages of that bible over the years. 
“it means that god is still in control, and he knew we needed this for closure,” she said, crying. 
carter said she spent from age 11 to 20 in the home, and she had to close her eyes as the home was knocked down. 
“Thank you for all of the memories and life it gave us,” she said. 

Queen elizabeth hospitalized 
Associated Press 
london — britain’s Queen elizabeth ii was hospitalized sunday over an apparent stom­ach infection that has ailed her for days, a rare instance of ill health sidelining the long-reign­ing monarch. elizabeth will have to cancel a visit to rome and other engagements as she re­covers, and outside experts said she may have to be rehydrated intravenously. 
buckingham palace said the 86-year-old queen had experi­enced symptoms of gastroen­teritis and was being examined at london’s King edward vii hospital — the first time in a decade that elizabeth has been hospitalized. 
“as a precaution, all official engagements for this week will regrettably be either postponed or cancelled,” the palace said in a statement. elizabeth’s two-day trip to rome had been planned to start wednesday. a spokes­woman said the trip may be “re­instated” at a later date. 
The symptoms of gastroen­teritis — vomiting and diarrhea 
— usually pass after one or two days, although they can be more severe in older or otherwise vul­nerable people. dehydration is a common complication. 
The illness was first an­nounced Friday, and elizabeth had to cancel a visit swansea, wales, on saturday to present leeks — a national symbol — to soldiers of the royal welsh regiment in honor of wales’ na­tional day, st. david’s day. she instead spent the day trying to recover at windsor castle, but appears to have had trouble kicking the bug. 
a doctor not involved in the queen’s treatment said that if medical officials determined that she is losing too much fluid, she would be rehydrated intravenously. 
“not everyone can keep up with oral hydration so it is pret­ty routine to go to hospital and have a drip and wait for the thing to pass and keep yourself hydrated,” said dr. christopher hawkey of the university of nottingham’s faculty of medi­cine and health sciences. 
britain’s national health service says that the two most common causes of gastroenteri­tis in adults are food poisoning and the norovirus, a common winter vomiting bug which typi­cally afflicts between 600,000 and 1 million britons each year. british health guidelines advise that people with the norovirus avoid work for at least two days. 
“it’s very infectious and strikes in winter because people are in­doors and it spreads more eas­ily,” hawkey said. 
elizabeth has ruled since 1952 and is britain’s second-longest serving monarch, beaten only by Queen victoria in terms of the number of years spent on the throne. 
elizabeth’s husband prince philip, 91, has had several hospi­tal stays, but elizabeth has rarely let sickness get in the way of her still-busy schedule. 
about five months ago, she cancelled an engagement due to a bad back. The spokeswoman, who demanded anonymity be­cause palace rules do not let her go on the record, said the last time elizabeth was hospitalized was in 2003 for a knee operation. 
The queen has undertaken a number of engagements over the past week. on Tuesday, she met the new archbishop of canterbury, Justin welby, at buckingham palace, and on Thursday she presented a host of british olympians, including track and field star Jessica ennis, with honors during an investi­ture ceremony. 
ingrid seward, the editor of the britain’s majesty magazine, said that the queen “probably agreed to be hospitalized in order to get better quickly.” 
“everybody will want to be wishing her a speedy recovery,” she told sky news television. 
That includes british prime minister david cameron, whose office said he passed on his best wishes to the queen. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

we’re a community 

Andrew Gastelum 
editor-in-chief 

one year seems like a long way away. i still refuse to believe i will be enter­ing the real world in just over a year. i refuse to accept the fact that my time at notre dame is over the hill now. 
i love being a college kid too much. here, at this university. 
here, at this paper. 

i love what i do and i am extremely fortunate to be able to do what i love. i have come up as a sports writer and a big sports fan, but i truly feel that in the past three years i have grown into someone who became a big fan of how this notre dame community has im­pacted me. 
Just as anyone else who takes a big step in his or her life, i realize exactly what this job entails and at the same time i am not sure what to expect. but one thing i know that will never change is how this paper func­tions as a lifeline of the notre dame community. 
what we do so well is serve as a gauge of campus happenings, events and anything else that affects you. 
if you want to know about notre dame and this community, there is no place better to look than in our pages. That’s what i hope The observer is to you and it’s something i will strive to maintain. 
i have so much respect for this job, this paper and the community here. all three deserve my greatest ef­fort and your input as a fabric of this community. 
all of a sudden, that one year set ahead of me feels like it won’t be long enough. i have so many plans for The observer and it seems almost as if there is too much to do. alone, that is. 
This is where i ask for you, the read­er. after all, this is not my paper. nor is it anyone’s who held this position before me. it does not belong to the university either. 
This publication belongs to you. 
if you like something we did, let us know. if you think we could improve in some way, we are happy to listen. if there is something we can do to bet­ter your understanding of an issue or make our coverage that much more effective, it is ever so welcome. 
This is not my paper or anyone else’s, but yours. without you, there is no us. 
it doesn’t really work the other way around. you are what makes this com­munity thrive, as well as this paper. and we want to get back to building that relationship and doing what we do best. 
after all, we’re all observers. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Appreciating philosophy 
socrates was killed on charges of corrupting the youth. some philosophers are still viewed as dangerous — peter singer sometimes receives death threats — but nowadays they are more likely to be thought irrelevant. This is the judgment christopher damian passes in his recent col­umn “our introduction to ‘philosophy’” (Feb. 26). 
his friends, he tells us, tend to wind up frustrated after their professors ask them “pointless questions” about how we can know seemingly obvious truths. i, for one, found these questions fascinating as an undergraduate, but of course people have different tastes. even if we don’t find them intrinsically interesting, questions like these il­luminate fundamental epistemological issues that bear on all fields of philosophy — including fields that mr. damian seems to regard more fondly, such as ethics and philosophy of religion (the fields i happen to work in.) i understand that the prima facie abstruse nature of ques­tions like these might be frustrating, but philosophy is a rigorous academic discipline like any other and no class promises all and only thrills. 
introductory philosophy classes are intended to help acquaint students with a rich intellectual tradition, to help them reason critically and evaluate arguments and to encourage them to reexamine fundamental assump­tions they may have previously taken for granted. mr. damian, as far as i can tell, would prefer that introduc­tion to philosophy courses function more like souped-up catechism classes. i would regard this as a great loss; we already have catechism classes in the form of catechism classes. To this end he suggests notre dame “has a grave responsibility to ensure that [graduate students who teach] embody and promote its unique mission.” he ex­plicitly refuses to elaborate. as many graduate students make a living through such teaching, perhaps i can be forgiven for wanting details. should i be fired for being an episcopalian, or will only my non-religious colleagues be banned? how will orthodoxy be enforced? by making us sign a statement of faith? submitting our syllabi to Father Jenkins? whatever it takes, i guess, to keep us from cor­rupting the youth. 
well. maybe things haven’t changed so much after all. 
Dustin Crummett 
graduate student off campus 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“have no fear of perfection — you’ll never reach it.” 
Salvador Dali 
Spanish painter 


Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The persuasiveness of libertarianism 
Connor Roth 
Think. it’s not illegal yet. 

while it may seem like a long time back, try to remember what first grade was like. you’ll prob­ably think of some early academic learning experiences, field trips to a local history museum or historical society and, of course, recess. but if you continue, you might remember what it was like to encounter bul­lies. i was a pretty small guy back in the day and like many of you i also had to deal with the “give me your lunch money or i’ll beat you up” situ­ations in grade school. looking back now, i can laugh at myself for wor­rying so much about those extra 50 cents, but there is a reason nobody liked the kid who ordered everyone around and an explanation for why we would go home sad and talk to our parents for comfort. it’s pretty simple, but still a relatively new idea: natural law. 
i would like to credit notre dame’s professor vincent muñoz for the example he shared in class explain­ing morality and natural law, which i would like to share with you. imagine someone outdoors going fishing. after successfully reeling in a nice-sized perch, he/she decides to take a nap before cooking the fish. now imagine that while that person is asleep, somebody goes through the icebox and takes the fish. why do we consider the second person to have committed an immoral act, but not the first? From my understand­ing of this anecdote, the first indi­vidual used nature for his/her own benefit while the second person took advantage of the first individual’s labor. since the first person worked to catch the fish, that fish becomes his property upon being reeled in and thus was stolen by the second person. 
although these short stories do not reach the depths of philosophy that John locke, Thomas hobbes and murray rothbard achieved, i believe they successfully define a few major principles of the philosophy of liber­tarianism that i would like to expand on. if you ask any person who leans toward libertarianism, “what is the most important aspect of your phi­losophy?” he or she should simply answer, “non-aggression.” The prin­ciple of non-aggression is based on the idea that the initiation of force against any human being is always morally wrong regardless of excuses for that force or judgments on why it will benefit society; that force is det­rimental to human happiness. let’s take a minute to re-think this idea on how is force applied today. we can go back to bullying as an exam­ple. The individual who threatened to use coercion in order to take mon­ey from another is initiating force and committing violence on the bystander. we do not accept this as a legitimate action. but if someone breaks into your house threatening to do harm against your loved ones and you shoot them in self-defense, clearly society would accept this force for the plain fact that it is self-defense — the shooter in that scenario is not initiating force, he is responding to it. 

looking at coercion in society to­day, it’s not hard to see why people are complaining about the decline of civil liberties and freedom: The gov­ernment is initiating force against each individual in this country on so many levels that people be­come acclimated and indifferent to it. society is audacious enough to ridicule those who call out these detriments and will laugh at their concern. Korematsu is not so far in the past. but here is the point in which dissenters with the libertar­ian philosophy will argue that the growth of the state is necessary in order to achieve the “maximum pub­lic happiness” or some other form of rhetoric along those lines. another classic argument is that libertari­anism is too utopian. but let’s look where the status quo has taken us: we now have a paternalistic gov­ernment saying i can’t drive a car without wearing a seatbelt and i do not have control over what i put in my body. if i live in new york city, i can’t even order a two-liter cola with my delivery pizza. To top it all off, we have had consecutive presidents who believe they have the power to wire­tap phone calls, read my emails, in­definitely detain american citizens without a trial and even assassinate american citizens abroad. good thing we have a 14th amendment. 
From my own interpretation of the libertarian philosophy these standards are — and should be — re­jected. libertarianism incorporates what i consider the “rule of halves,” which describes how each of the two major political parties is half-right and half-wrong. democratic platforms typically emphasize the importance of individual rights. republicans on the other hand are described as protectors of the doc­trine of laissez-faire — how true these statements still are is subject to the eye of the beholder. why i find the philosophy of libertarianism so persuasive is that it is consistent across the board: individuals will have their rights protected in the so­cial sphere and also in the economic sphere. From here one can discuss many other facets of the philosophy: the importance of voluntary associa­tions, charity, cooperation, peace and tolerance. if you are tired of hav­ing more of the same in washington d.c., i’d encourage you to explore an alternative and consider the implica­tions of force on society and the ef­fects coercion has on humanity as a whole. if you take nothing else from this editorial, just know that no one likes a bully. 
Connor Roth is a sophomore econom­ics major and constitutional studies minor. He can be reached at croth1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Sanctions on North Korea must be uniform 
The Oracle Editorial Board 
The oracle 

The democratic republic of Korea (dprK) con­firmed Feb. 12 that it conducted its third nuclear test in an underground testing facility after south Korean monitors detected seismic activity coming from the north. 
The test came just two months after north Korea angered international powers over a successful bal­listic missile launch that landed a weather satellite into orbit and sparked even more united nations sanctions on the self-proclaimed “self-reliant” state. 
The u.n. security council denounced the test and is planning future sanctions, but their actions will continue to be in vain unless all of the security council’s member states can uniformly sanction north Korea, isolating it from international aid until it ceases nuclear programs. 
The problem is that, though most of the world’s powers are allied in efforts to ostracize the dprK and its antics, china has continued an economic relationship with pyongyang, despite the fact that it has voted in favor of implementing the last three sanctions. any international trade with north Korea strengthens Kim Jong-un’s regime and his despera­tion for making a name for himself — not the im­poverished north Korean population that has an abysmal gdp of $40 billion as of 2011, according to the cia world Factbook. 
north Korea has made it abundantly clear that sanctions, embargoes or any other international ac­tions will not deter its plans of developing weapons of mass destruction. 
even after the missile launch in december, the dprK boasted their actions were posed to create a nuclear warhead capable of traveling as far as the u.s. 
when a government as oppressive and ill-advised as north Korea continually ignores international stability the way it has since the end of the Korean war, there needs to be serious and relentless pres­sure placed on it until it complies. 
ignoring the severity of the dprK’s persistence to­ward nuclear weapons by only suggesting u.n. sanc­tions that it continues to ignore is shameful. 
Though nobody wants the events of the Korean war to be repeated, the ineffectiveness of u.n. sanc­tions needs to be considered when thinking about future plans regarding north Korea. 
if china is unwilling to participate in implement­ing the sanctions, perhaps it is worthy of consider­ation to implement sanctions upon bystander, but enabling, nations. 
This column originally ran in the Feb. 13 edition of The Oracle, serving  the University of South Florida. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Photos courtesy of Yahoo.com and Eonline.com 

The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By EMMA TERHAAR 
scene writer 

yesterday, i was waiting in the subway line at laFun and overheard a girl saying the most outrageous things. 
she was talking to her friend about lent and calling it a season of pen­ance and preparation, which wasn’t particularly strange.  but then she said something about Jesus spending 40 days in the desert being tempted by satan and how modern catholics are mirroring his struggle. 
who is this crazy girl?  doesn’t she know anything about the true mes­sage of lent? Jesus just wanted us to be sexy! 
yes, lent is a time of penance and preparation — penance for all the can­dy we ate and the winter fat folds we let fall down upon us, preparation for hit­ting the beaches over spring break and eventually summer. more importantly, preparation for the Facebook albums that will document these events. 
This naïve girl reflects what i think might be a large body of ignorance on our campus.  lent is not some long mental and spiritual journey. come on, people. why would that involve sacrificing dessert? 
i repeat: god wanted us to be hot. That’s why he asked we give up a spe­cific unhealthy food item or category, curtail some unsightly habit or work out more often. 
The heavenly Father perfectly de­signed a holiday season that began just as new year’s resolutions start to die down, fro-yo machines are being worn out from overuse and girls are shifting from wearing leggings on their lazy days to wearing full-on sweatpants. 
Just as society was getting gross, he forced a season of public penance in an effort to make catholics and catholicism a more attractive religion. 
not only did his plan boost the number of catholic converts enticed to the religion by the prevalence of washboard abs created by voluntarily dessert-sacrificing people, but he also increased the number of catholics — overall rise in member attractiveness leads to a higher procreation rate. 

lent is of course much more than that now. 
we kick off the season with a whole week of partying around mardi gras, which maximizes opportunities for inter-catholic courtship. 
This last day before lent means gath­ering together and forcing as many pancakes or donuts down our throats as is humanly possible, prepping our­selves for the upcoming extended diet. 
i believe there is a passage in the bible in which Jesus suggested that before taking any course of action or making an improvement in one’s life, it is necessary to do the complete op­posite thing in excess the night before until one gets sick from it.  
during lent itself, there are weekly challenges cutting out fatty meats and excessive snacking, which tests who the real, hard-core body enthusiasts are.  on these days, non-meat-eaters are rewarded with copious amounts of cheese and bread. 
The cheese and bread are shared joyously amongst male and female catholics of the mating age.  some in­stitutions have been known to spon­sor special fitness and body awareness weeks for young adult catholics, using free T-shirts, snacks and fitness classes to spread and reinforce the message of our need to be fit and beautiful to ful­fill what Jesus wants for us. 
The lenten season ends with the grand finale at easter, the ultimate celebration of the sacrifices we’ve all been doing. celebrants can hunt for someone else’s eggs and frolic about with large rabbit men. 
as we each continue our struggle through the lenten season, let’s re­member: we’re one body in christ, so let’s make it a tight body! 
Contact Emma Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 

Steph Wulz | The Observer 


The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

williams sisters change the game 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
Editor’s note: This is the eighth in a 12-part series dis­cussing the defining sports­man (or woman) of this century. Here, Vicky Jacobsen argues for Serena and Venus Williams. Join the discus­sion on Twitter by using #DefiningSportsman. 
i’m breaking the rules here: i’m not going to name one defining athlete of the 21st century (so far). That’s because it seems just wrong to discuss serena williams without venus — her older sister, greatest opponent, doubles partner and most notable fan. 
you could make an argu­ment for their sporting dom­inance based on major wins alone. serena has won 15 singles titles in grand slam tournaments; venus has claimed seven. They have 13 grand slam doubles titles as partners, and each has two mixed doubles titles to go along with four olympic gold medals. 
Then there’s their longev­ity in a sport that makes old ladies of 25 year olds. venus first topped the women’s rankings in February of 2002, and serena took the no. 1 spot in July of that year. an astonishing 11 years later, serena is again the best women’s player in the world, while venus is still a respectable no. 20. during the 2010 French open, they were the top two singles players in the world as well as the no. 1 doubles team. not even the manning brothers can claim that sort of familial dominance at the quarterback position. 
if you’re still not con­vinced, you could look at what the williams sisters have come to represent in terms of greater athletic op­portunities for women and racial minorities. The pair spent their formative years in compton, calif., and many americans, at least, found their public court in­troduction to tennis to be a welcome difference in a sea of tennis-academy prod­ucts. They showed the world they didn’t have to be from the country club or eastern europe to thrive in one of the world’s more genteel sports. 
at the same time, the sis­ters’ somewhat controversial father and coach, richard williams, proves the overly-involved helicopter parent is no longer confined to a few high-income suburbs and ivy league feeder schools but has spread to every lo­cale in the united states and can be found on every play­ing ground. 
women’s athletics were once smaller, daintier, slower versions of men’s contests. but that attitude is changing, and fast: we live in a world where a woman has won the pole at the daytona 500 and a dunk in a girls’ basketball game no longer warrants headlines. The williams sisters were at the forefront of this change. They hit for power — venus has served at 130 miles per hour, which ties her for the fastest serve ever hit by a woman. serena isn’t far be­hind with a 129 mph serve of her own. she knows how to use it too. Just last year, she broke the wimbledon tour­nament record by hitting 102 aces during the two-week tournament (For those of you who like to keep track of these sorts of things, that’s more than any man hit). 
That intensity isn’t just physical — serena’s out­bursts are almost worthy of John mcenroe (back in 2011, her comments directed at a chair umpire included the accusation that she was “un­attractive on the inside”). 
but what would a modern athlete be without a dose of controversy? (There’s a reason none of us are argu­ing for san antonio spurs forward Tim duncan as the defining athlete of our gen­eration.) The williams sis­ters have been through it all: racially charged incidents, fines, huge amounts of Tv commercials, weird injuries and illnesses. They branded themselves before nFl quarterbacks thought to do so, designing their own ten­nis outfits and paying more attention to fashion and oth­er side projects than some tennis authorities would’ve liked. but they’ve outlasted their contemporaries and are now terrorizing a new generation of wunderkinds. They could’ve retired long ago, knowing they were two of the best to ever play the game. There’s really only one reason why they’re still out there competing: They love the game as much as we’ve loved watching them play it. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu
      The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

BASEBALL | usa baseball-irish classic 
Irish win three of four games at tournament 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 

The no. 22 irish won three of their four games this weekend at the usa baseball-irish classic in cary, n.c., including a 9-4 rout­ing of massachusetts, a 12th in­ning walk-off for a 3-2 win against Tennessee and a 3-0 shutout of no. 25 virginia Tech. 
in the last matchup sunday, notre dame (8-2) conceded a 4-3 loss to rhode island. 
irish coach mik aoki said he was pleased with the performanc­es displayed over the weekend. 
“overall, it was a good week­end,” aoki said. “we faced some outstanding arms and some great teams. we got some timely hits, and we played well. dropping the game against rhode island put a tough spin on the weekend. when you are playing four games in a weekend, it’s hard to win them all, but, overall, it was a good weekend.” 
at 8-2, the irish are off to their best start since 1960. notre dame is playing team ball, aoki said, and key players are stepping up when needed. 
aoki said one key player for the irish is senior right-hander adam norton, who pitched a complete game shutout against the hokies (11-2) on saturday. in his third career complete game, norton (3­
0) threw 108 pitches (76 strikes), struck out five and walked one. it is the first time a notre dame pitcher has thrown a complete-game shutout against a top-25 team since former player danny Tamayo did against mississippi state on may 28, 2000. 
“[norton’s] performance was phenomenal,” aoki said. “virginia Tech is one of the better offen­sive teams we will play this year. There’s little margin of error out there against a team like that, and he pitched great.” 
all norton needed was a little bit of offense, and junior first baseman Trey mancini provided it, driving in all three of notre dame’s runs. mancini hit a two-run homer down the right-field line in the fourth inning and add­ed an extra insurance run in the bottom of the eighth with an rbi single. 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

mancini did not play in Friday night’s game against Tennessee (4-7) due to a shoulder injury. 
The irish capped off a perfect Friday in the 12th inning against the volunteers. The irish and volunteers were deadlocked at one run apiece until the top of the ninth inning, when Tennessee sophomore third baseman will maddox hit a two-out rbi triple to make the game 2-1. in the bot­tom of the ninth, irish junior third baseman eric Jagielo reached base on a dropped routine fly ball and was moved over to third. with two outs, irish freshman shortstop lane richards singled to left field to bring in Jagielo and move the game to extras. Junior right-handed reliever dan slania was awarded the win. slania (1­
0) pitched 3.1 perfect innings, shutting down all ten volunteer batters faced and fanning three. The irish missed two game-win­ning opportunities in the 10th and 11th, but irish sophomore first baseman ryan bull came through with a walk-off single in the bottom of the 12th to give the irish a 3-2 win. 
“it was a clutch hit, and [bull] put a good swing on it,” aoki said. “Tennessee had some really good arms throughout, and we had some opportunities earlier on that we didn’t convert on. 
but we got some runners on at first and second, and bull came through.” 
Friday’s game against massachusetts (1-2) was charac­terized by notre dame’s offense. 
bull led the irish offense with three hits, mancini hit a three-run homer and junior catcher Forrest Johnson had a three-run triple. sophomore right-handed pitcher matt Ternowchek (1-0) pitched five scoreless innings in relief with eight strikeouts to pick up his first win of the season. 
on sunday, rhode island (2-9) took advantage of an irish error in the top of the ninth and bested the irish 4-3. notre dame took an early 1-0 lead in the bottom of the first, but the rams scored three in the top of the third to make it 3-1. The irish tied the game up at three in the bottom half of the in­ning, and the game remained tied until the ninth. rams senior first baseman pat Fortunato reached first on an error when irish fresh­man reliever nick mccarty (2-1) missed touching first base as he covered on a ground ball. 
despite the loss, aoki said he is happy with how the irish have started their season. 
“we have played a challeng­ing schedule up to this point, and it is good to see us where we are at,” aoki said. “we are very good team playing well. we need to worry about what we do and not everything else — play as close to or at our potential and we will be great.” 
The irish will travel to los angeles to compete in the dodgertown classic, which be­gins Friday. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
“This”  by  Darius  Rucker  Maybe  that’s  why  I’m  
such,  such  a  lucky  man  
Got a baby girl sleeping in my bedroom  
And her mama laughing in my arms  For every stoplight I didn’t make  
There’s the sound of rain on the rooftop  Every chance I did or I didn’t take  
And  the  game’s  about  to  start  All  the  nights  I  went  too  far  
All the girls that broke my heart  
I don’t really know how I got here  All  the  doors  that  I  had  to  close  
But  I’m  sure  glad  that  I  did  All the things I knew but I didn’t know  
And it’s crazy to think that one little thing  Thank  God  for  all  I  missed  
Could’ve  changed  all  of  it  Cause it led me here to this  
Maybe it didn’t turn out like I planned  



ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 5, depaul 2; duKe 5, nd 2 
Irish split pair of matches 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
after a 5-2 win over depaul at home on saturday, a tired irish squad was overpowered by duke at the eck Tennis pavilion, losing 5-2 on sunday afternoon. 
The no. 18 irish (9-4) clinched victory before no. 66 depaul (9-5) could win a match on saturday. They didn’t have too much trouble with the doubles point – the no. 38 duo of juniors Julie sabacinski and britney sanders beat junior Kelsey lawson and freshman ana vladutu, 8-2. Junior Jennifer Kellner and senior chrissie mcgaffigan secured the first point of the day, defeating freshman matea cutura and sophomore patricia Fargas, 8-5. Freshman Quinn gleason and sophomore Katherine white were leading freshmen Zaina sufi and Jarret Fisher, 7-6, but the contest was stopped when mcgaffigan and Kellner won, making the outcome of no. 3 doubles irrelevant. 
but white made sure her sin­gles match counted: she made quick work of sufi, winning 6-1, 6-2.  gleason and mcgaffigan were the next to finish, beating vladutu, 6-2, 6-3, and lawson 6-1, 7-6 (7-5), respectively, and guaranteeing the irish win. 
sophomore molly o’Koniewski went on to beat Fisher, but no. 85 cutura beat no. 42 sanders, 7-5, 3-6, 11-9, while Fargas took down Kellner. 
while all went well against the blue demons, the situation was practically reversed against the no. 2 blue devils (9-2) on sunday. 
“They’re a very deep team, so the sixth player is really, re­ally top notch, just like the no. 1 player,” mcgaffigan said. “and i think that they play a really hard schedule, too, so they have a lot of experience, and they’ve been in tough matches and per­severed through those.” 

That tough match experience was on display at the eck Tennis center. 
Junior marianne Jodoin and sophomore monica Turewicz struck first in the doubles, beat­ing gleason and white, 8-4. sabacinski and sanders evened up the doubles score by beat­ing senior mary clayton and sophomore annie mulholland, but the blue devils claimed the first point of the day when no. 27 sophomore ester goldfeld and junior hanna mar beat Kellner and mcgaffigan, 8-5. 
duke won the first three singles matches to guarantee victory. no. 13 mar defeated Kellner, 6-4, 6-0, and no. 38 goldfeld needed three sets to dispatch sanders, winning 4-6, 6-3, 6-0. no. 100 Jodoin earned the winning, beating white 4-6, 7-5, 6-2. 
mulholland continued duke’s dominance, beating o’Koniewski, 6-3, 6-7 (2-7), 10-3. 
but the irish weren’t done, 


although no. 66 Turewicz forced a third set, an inju­ry forced her to retire with mcgaffigan leading 7-6 (7-5), 6-7 (1-7), 8-6. 
“she was a really good player, so i had to be patient and wait for the ball that i wanted to go for it,” mcgaffigan said. “my teammates had really good energy, so that helped me to persevere through that match, because it was tough.” 
gleason also showed grit on the no. 3 court, beating no. 62 mary clayton 0-6, 7-6 (8-6), 7-6 (8-6). 
“she’s just been doing a re­ally great job, especially for a freshman,” mcgaffigan said. “she came in here and has been working really hard, a i think it’s shown out on the court.” 
The irish now have a long, nine-day break ahead of them. The will pick up competi­tion again against georgia in athens, ga. play begins at 1 
p.m. on march 12. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

FENCING | midwesT Fencing conFerence championships 
ND wins conference title 
Observer Staff Report 
as both individuals and a team, notre dame had a successful weekend as the hosts of the midwest Fencing conference championships, taking four individual titles and also finishing in first as a team with a total of 1,590 points. 
on the women’s side, the foils claimed three spots in the top 10.  both junior adriana camacho and sophomore madison Zeiss made the quarterfinals of the foil event.  in the epee event, senior ewa nelip won the women’s champion­ship in dominating fashion. 

one of nelip’s wins came against another irish fencer, sophomore epeeist nicole ameli, by a score of 12-6. nonetheless, ameli per­formed well and ended up finishing in 7th place, while fellow sophomore epee ashley severson rounded out the top 10 in the event. in the sabre event, fresh­man Johanna Thill and se­nior lian osier placed first and second, respectively. 
The men also had a strong day saturday in individu­al competition, as junior foil ariel desmet won the foil event handedly. in the men’s epee, three out of four semifinalists came from the irish side, and freshman garrett mcgrath earned the overall victory, but he had to defeat irish ju­nior michael rossi in order to get there. additionally, sophomore epee dale purdy made it to the semifinals for notre dame. in the men’s sabre event, the irish put four fencers in the top 10, including a second place finish from freshman John hallsten. 
as a team, the irish placed first in the midwest Fencing conference championships and will now look forward to the ncaa regional cham­pionships, which will take place next weekend at the castellan Family Fencing center. 

MEN’S TENNIS | nd 5, wisconsin 2 
Team rallies for road victory 

By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
against no. 59 wisconsin on sunday, the no. 29 irish fought back from two-point deficit to take the remaining five singles matches and defeat the badgers, 5-2. 
notre dame (7-5) got off to a slow start when the no. 2 and no. 3 doubles teams both lost by an 8-4 margin. after dropping the doubles point to the badgers (7-2), the irish then lost the first singles match off the court, as badgers senior alexander Kostanov defeated junior billy pecor 6-1, 6-3 at no. 4 singles. 
“i was disappointed in our level at no. 2 and no. 3 doubles,” irish coach bobby bayliss said. “i thought we lacked aggres­siveness and the ability to take charge of points and allowed things to happen to us. 
“and unfortunately, i think billy played probably his worst match of the year [sunday] and was off the court first. so we were down 2-0.” 
The irish recovered quickly from the two-point disadvan­tage though, as junior greg andrews and sophomore wyatt mccoy responded with victories at no. 1 and no. 5 singles. senior michael moore added a 6-2, 6-4 victory at no. 6 singles to give the irish a 3-2 lead. 
“everyone else really had to pick up the slack quickly and at that point, i’m very proud of some of the ways guys played,” bayliss said. “i thought michael moore did a great job of doing what he needed to do, nothing spectacular, but being aggressive and at the same time, playing under control. … wyatt mccoy was his usually scrappy self and had enough offense at times to really frustrate his opponent. 
“[greg andrews] won quickly, wyatt won quickly and michael won quickly all in the first sets so we were right back in the match.” 
notre dame never relin­quished its momentum and put the match away with wins by freshman Quentin monaghan and senior blas moros at no. 2 and no. 3 singles, respectively. monaghan clinched the overall match with his fifteenth singles victory of the year. after losing the first set, moros rebounded and won 3-6, 6-1, 6-3. 
“blas moros did a great job of composing himself after losing the first set and coming back and winning somewhat deci­sively the last two,” bayliss said. “Quentin monaghan clinched the match for us. he continues to do great things for a young guy. his poise under pressure is sur­prising and refreshing.” 
The win gives notre dame its second true road victory of the season. The irish are 4-5 this spring season against teams in the top-50, with three of these losses coming against teams ranked in the top 10. 
“obviously, due to the sched­ule we play, every win is a good win,” bayliss said. “winning this match, coming back from a 2-0 deficit, winning all five of the re­maining matches — four of them in straight sets — certainly gives us plenty of momentum and the feeling that we are prepared to play a good match against illinois.” 
The irish face no. 17 illinois on Tuesday at the eck Tennis pavilion at 6 p.m. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S SWIMMING | big easT championships 
Irish take Big East crown 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
notre dame capped off the fourth day of the 2013 big east championships with a confer­ence championship win and with a meet-record 991 points at the iupui natatorium in indianapolis. 
The victory marks the second year in a row and the sixth time overall that the team has earned the conference title. second-place louisville finished with 
851.5points, falling 139.5 behind the irish. 
irish head coach Tim welsh said this year’s team has distin­guished itself from last year’s championship squad with its speed and extra year of training. 
“This is the fastest team we’ve ever had,” he said. “it’s also more experienced … and that made a big difference.” 
on Friday, the team placed a competitor in the top three of each of the seven finals events. sophomore matthew deblasio opened the night with a third-place finish in the 400-yard indi­vidual medley in a time of 3:50.95, falling short of a team record by one-hundredth of a second. senior bill bass and sophomore Jonathan williamson were the next irish swimmers to take their spots on the podium, as they touched the wall second and third respectively in the 100-yard butterfly. 
in the 200-yard freestyle, ju­nior Frank dyer claimed the sil­ver medal, and freshman bogac ayhan netted a third-place finish in the 100-yard backstroke. 
The best event for the irish on the evening came in the 100­yard breaststroke, won by se­nior chris Johnson. not only did Johnson break the school record set by sophomore Zach stephens earlier in that morning’s prelims, but he also broke the meet record with a time of 52.95. stephens and fellow sophomore cameron miller rounded out the top three to earn valuable points for notre dame, and all three swimmers turned in times that broke the previous team records. 

welsh said he believes his squad’s depth in events such as the 100-yard backstroke, and the depth of his team a whole, were the main reasons notre dame secured its title in such convinc­ing fashion. 
“when you look at the number of events where we had three, four, five guys in the top eight, i think that’s a testament to our team depth,” he said. “we are a team that is very balanced and very deep, and i think that, in this big east championship, that was the deciding factor.” 
on Friday, sophomore diver michael Kreft earned 338.20 points in the 3-meter dive, miss­ing first place by one-tenth of a point. 
in Friday’s final event, the 400-yard medley relay, the notre dame team of ayhan, Johnson, bass and stephens finished sec­ond behind louisville’s squad but captured enough points for the irish to close the night with a 181-point advantage over the cardinals. 
on the meet’s last day, stephens claimed gold in the 200-yard breaststroke in a time of 1:55.21, beating the old meet-record by almost two seconds and bringing the total number of records broken over the four-day span to eight. miller also earned a spot on the podium with his third-place finish in the event. 
williamson won the team’s seventh and final victory of the meet with his victory in the 200­yard butterfly, coming in at a personal-best 1:43.94 in front of the second-place bass, who turned in a personal-best 1:45.27. 
on the platform, sophomore Ted wagner netted second place in the event’s inaugural year. The silver streak continued for the irish in the racing lanes, where the 400-yard freestyle re­lay of dyer, stephens, senior John mcginley and bass claimed sec­ond as the meet drew to a close. 
The irish as a whole earned 35 ncaa b-cuts, putting them in contention to swim at the ncaa championships at the end of the month. notre dame swimmers and divers gained 41 all-big east honors, with dyer, stephens and bass earning seven honors each. For bass, these recognitions bring his career total to 20 over­all and 10 individual, the latter of which sets the notre dame mark for most individual all-big east honors. 
For his top-six finishes in all three diving events, Kreft se­cured the title of big east co-diver of the year with louisville freshman sean piner. 
additionally, welsh earned the title of big east coach of the year, but he was quick to give recogni­tion to the team’s entire coaching staff. 
“The truth is, as everyone knows, it’s never one person,” he said. “it’s always the staff. … i’ll take this staff over every other staff in the big east conference every single time.” 
welsh credited the team’s as­sistant coaches, trainers, aca­demic advisor and nutritionist with the award. 
irish swimmers find out next week whether they have quali­fied for this month’s ncaa championships in indianapolis. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu. 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING | big easT championships 
 Team places second 
Observer Staff Report 
racking up 10 event wins, four meet records and six school records in a dominating week, the irish finished second in the big east championships at the iupui natatorium in indianapolis on sunday, falling only to louisville. 
This is the third year the irish have finished second in the big east championships. notre dame finished with 772 points, finishing behind the cardinals and their 895 points. 
despite the second place finish, the irish ended the long week of competition with several awards. diving coach caiming Xie earned the title of big east women’s diving coach of the year, while head coach brian barnes claimed big east women’s swimming coach of the year. 

senior diver Jenny chiang, who earned her fourth-straight title in the 3-meter dive, was named most outstanding diver and sophomore emma reaney snatched the award for most outstanding swimmer. 
in addition to the awards, the irish also claimed 10 event wins throughout the meet. reaney set new meet records in the 200-yard individual medley and the 100-yard breaststroke, as well as an individual victory in the 200-yard breaststroke. her times in both the 100 and 200-yard breaststroke events earned her an ncaa “a” quali­fying time. The 400-yard med­ley relay team of reaney, junior Kelly ryan, senior Kim holden and sophomore catherine galletti not only beat a meet record, but also earned the team’s third ncaa “a” qualify­ing cut. 
notre dame also earned ncaa “b” qualifying cuts in fourteen events, including the 800-yard freestyle relay, the 200-yard medley relay and the 400-yard freestyle relay. 
chiang, sophomore diver allison casareto and fresh­man diver lindsey streepey all earned qualifying scores for the ncaa tournament. 
in all, 12 notre dame swim­mers and divers earned a total of 35 all-big east honors. 
The irish diving squad will next compete in the ncaa Zone diving Qualifier on march 14, while qualified swimmers will compete in the ncaa champi­onships starting march 21. 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 10, duQuesne 8 
squad overcomes slow start to win 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
after a flat start saturday, no. 7/9 notre dame once again dominat­ed the second half to remain un­defeated following a victory over duquesne. 
Trailing 4-0 just minutes into the game and down 5-3 at the half, the irish outscored the dukes 7-3 in the final 30 minutes to earn a 10-8 vic­tory at rooney Field in pittsburgh on saturday. 
The victory marks the third con­secutive game the irish (3-0) have held their opponent to three or fewer goals in the second half and the second time this season they have overcome a halftime deficit. 
“i think it starts with having the ability to respond in situations and make adjustments,” irish coach christine halfpenny said of the team’s second-half success. “it’s nice to know that your team has the ability to do that this early in the season. while it’s obviously a bless­ing to be able to come on strong in the final 30 minutes, we need to figure out how we can come out a lot stronger in those first five or 10 minutes than we have.” 
notre dame struggled at the start of the game, as the dukes (2-2) put four goals on the board in a little over three minutes. after duquesne junior midfielder caitlin prince scored the fourth goal at the 26:52 mark, halfpenny decided to use her first timeout. 
“i could see that our defense was not organized, and they weren’t communicating,” halfpenny said. “while i’m a coach that definitely likes to allow our girls to work their way through situations, it just wasn’t happening yesterday, so i had to use an early timeout three minutes into the game, which isn’t really something you want to do as a coach. but, from there, the game really swung.” 
Following the timeout, the irish embarked on an 8-1 run that helped put them in control of the game. sophomore attack shauna pugliese scored a free-position goal at the 18:12 mark of the half to put the irish on the board. Junior attack lauren sullivan and senior attack Jaimie morrison followed with goals to cut notre dame’s halftime deficit to 5-3. 
The irish had little trouble find­ing an offensive rhythm in the second half, beginning the period with five goals in 12 minutes to take a 8-5 lead. morrison added another goal, while senior attack Jenny granger scored twice dur­ing the stretch. notre dame took its first lead at the 21:18 mark of the half when freshman midfielder brie custis scored her second ca­reer goal. 
“i think we have such a great mix of veterans and rookies on offense,” halfpenny said. “we have a perfect mix of youth, a little bit of naïve bliss and some great balance with the poise of our veterans. Jaimie and Jenny are really our one-two punch around the crease, and i think they were able to display that against duquesne yesterday.” 
although the dukes cut notre dame’s lead to one at the 15:10 mark, junior midfielder margaret smith netted a pair of goals in a 2-and-a-half minute stretch to help seal the irish victory. 
“margaret continues to lead our midfield unit, and we’re thrilled with what she’s been able to do so far this season,” halfpenny said. 
smith, morrison and granger led the irish with two goals apiece, with granger also contributing three assists in a five-point effort. 
on the other end, senior goalie ellie hilling made 12 saves and held the dukes to four goals over the final 55 minutes of the contest. 
“[hilling] was attacking the ball with her hands, and she did quite a bit to disrupt their offense out by the crease as well,” halfpenny said. “she just shook off the first few goals and got back to her attacking style with confidence, and she was able to make a big change with 12 saves.” 
notre dame will now look to maintain its winning streak when it hosts detroit on Tuesday night. The irish are scheduled to meet the Titans at 6 p.m. on Tuesday at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 



ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 92, providence 57 
Irish dominate in final tune-up before UConn 
added 14 points and eight re-“we don’t think it was an actu-
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 

sports writer bounds. sophomore guard al concussion, just some symp­
whitney holloway provided toms,” mcgraw said. “she’s day 

although notre dame senior eight points off the bench. The to day. we’ll have to wait and see guard skylar diggins has had an added production across the if we’ll have her on monday.” impressive college career, she board helped make up for the ab-notre dame defeated might now be playing her best sence of freshman guard Jewell connecticut (27-2, 14-1) 73-72 basketball yet. loyd, who has experienced con-earlier this season. The irish 
diggins led the no. 2 irish to cussion-like symptoms since a were underdogs in that game a 92-57 victory over providence collision in last Tuesday’s game against the then-no. 1 huskies. on saturday at mullaney against no. 22 syracuse and sat since then, notre dame has con-gymnasium in providence, r.i. out saturday’s game. tinued to surprise its doubters, during the game, she tallied 28 “we need the bench,” mcgraw mcgraw said. points, four rebounds, six assists said. “we need them to be ready. “i think it’s great to know and two steals. Their defense was outstanding. we overachieved this year,” 
irish coach muffet mcgraw everyone came in ready in the mcgraw said. “no one expected said diggins has been giving an absence of Jewell loyd.” us to be undefeated, and no one extra effort as her collegiate ca-notre dame’s defense held expected us to be no. 1 [in the reer comes to a close, and her providence (7-21, 2-13 big east) big east].” numbers have benefited the to only 57 points. senior guard with a win in the rematch irish (27-1, 15-0 big east). symone roberts scored 22 against connecticut, the irish moments, mcbride shot well “she’s the best shooter in the 
“Knowing that you’re a se-points to lead the Friars, while will win the big east regular-sea-and [freshman guard michaela] country,” mcgraw said. “she’s nior and knowing your career is sophomore guard Tori rule son title outright. a loss means mabrey came off the bench.” phenomenal, having a great coming to an end is motivation,” added 13 and senior forward the team will share the title with diggins drained consecutive year. stopping her is key to stop­mcgraw said. “[diggins] is play-brianna edwards put up 10. the huskies. 3-pointers to keep notre dame ping therm. she’s their go-to ing with a heightened sense of The providence bench only mcgraw said she is looking for in the game down the stretch, player and coming off a career-urgency, and she’s playing some accounted for a single point, great performances and thinks and the irish secured the victory high [in points] against south of her best basketball.” while notre dame’s bench com-anyone on her team can make when connecticut sophomore Florida.” 
diggins didn’t do it all on her bined to total 19 points. that happen. forward Kaleena mosqueda-notre dame and connecticut own, however, as the entire irish despite the production off the “going into the last game lewis missed a wide-open will tipoff for their rematch at 7 lineup contributed big numbers bench, mcgraw said she would [against connecticut], we were 3-pointer in the closing seconds. p.m. tonight in purcell pavilion. saturday. Junior guard Kayla still like to see loyd back soon, the underdog, and we battled,” mosqueda-lewis will once again mcbride put up 24 points, and especially with a game against mcgraw said. “it wasn’t any pose a serious threat to the irish Contact Samantha Zuba at junior forward natalie achonwa no. 3 connecticut tonight. one person. diggins had her big defense, mcgraw said. szuba@nd.edu 


TRACK AND FIELD | aleX wilson inviTaTional 
Team shatters several records at invitational 
squaring off against elite sprinter chris giesting had an swanberg said. “it’s really great qualifying herself for the indoor 
By GREG HADLEY 

sports writer competition from all over the outstanding meet, breaking the to watch them go back and forth, championships. country, the irish had a very suc-school record in the 400-meter trying to beat the other’s time.” sophomore hurdler Jade barber school, meet and loftus re-cessful weekend, holding their event. his time of 46.05 qualified on the women’s side, senior followed up her domination at the 
cords all fell this weekend at own against traditional power-him to compete in Fayetteville as middle distance runner rebecca big east championships by break-
the alex wilson invitational at houses Texas a&m and oregon, well, where he will run alongside Tracy had the race of her life in ing the school and meet record 
loftus sports center, as sev-and Florida, the men’s defending junior sprinter patrick Feeney, the women’s mile, breaking the in the 60-meter hurdle event and 
eral irish athletes booked their national champions. overall, the the previous record-holder in the school, track and meet records helping her 4-by-400-meter relay 
tickets to Fayetteville, ark., for irish broke five school records event. with a time of 4:43.53. in doing so, team to a fourth place finish. 
next weekend’s ncaa indoor over the course of the weekend. “pat and chris have a friendly ri-she also catapulted into the top swanberg said strong individu­
championships. For the men, sophomore valry,” freshman decathlete brent 16 times in her event nationally, al showings were partially due to the atmosphere of desperation, as paid adverTisemenT 
athletes tried to secure nationally qualifying times. 
Four men broke the four-min­ute mark in the mile, led by soph­omore distance runner austin mudd of wisconsin, who broke the meet record. The meet re­cords in the men’s and women’s distance medley relays were bro­ken by penn state and michigan, respectively. 
The men’s distance medley re­lay was especially remarkable, as the top 12 teams posted the 12-fastest times in the country this season, qualifying them all for the ncaa championships. 
“some meets don’t run the [dis­tance medley], so this is one of the biggest chances to qualify,” swanberg said. “it’s too bad that we weren’t able to enter a team and defend our title from last year.” 
The irish next compete at the ncaa indoor championships in Fayetteville, ark., which begin Friday. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


Bouts 
conTinued From page 20 
first round came to a close. 
in the second round, Frego was not able to avoid a corner trap again, as lally sent a flurry of punches to his opponent’s body to force him back. The o’neill resi­dent fought his way out of the cor­ner again by sending two direct shots to lally’s head. 
lally came back with his earlier aggressiveness, but Frego ducked under his combinations before landing another headshot to close the round. 
The third round began evenly until a strong jab from lally gave Frego a bloody lip, leading to an injury timeout. both boxers came back with the same quickness with which they began the fight, but lally gained strength as time progressed and landed several shots to Frego’s torso to close the fight, earning the victory by unan­imous decision. 
144-pound: Ben “Danger Zone” Eichler def. Kevin “Git ‘Er” Dunne 
Junior ben eichler collected another win for the blue corner with his unanimous-decision victory over senior Kevin dunne and ensured he did not go home empty-handed in the finals for the second straight year. 
dunne elected to begin in a protective position with his gloves guarding his head. when he did move his arms, he threw deliberate punches that landed on his opponent’s stomach. 
eichler responded with a series of jabs and uppercuts to dunne’s torso, continuing his torrent with a strong right hook to his head. The opening round ended evenly, as the two exchanged punches to close out the round. 
in the middle round, eichler countered a dunne one-two combination with a hit to dunne’s head, followed by a jab to his stomach that sent him staggering backwards. 
eichler sent a flurry of punches to dunne’s body before dunne used a clinch. The pattern re­peated, with dunne as the aggressor. 
The final round began with a string of jabs from dunne, who ducked under eichler’s retorts before landing several more shots to his body and head, but eichler still held the advantage. 
Fatigue started to set in for both fighters after two-plus tax­ing rounds, but eichler pushed through the tiredness with his goal of winning in mind. 
“it was a struggle, but it helped to know i was winning at that point to just ride it out,” he said. 
The fighters swapped hits, with eichler landing high and dunne landing low right before eichler landed two final body shots to end the fight. eichler won by unanimous decision. 
The victor said he wanted to take in the finals experience as a whole and stay composed throughout the bout. 
“[i wanted to] try to be as calm as possible and not worry too much about the win, just try to enjoy the experience and put on a good show,” he said. 
148-pound: Devin “Opel” Duffy def. Sean “Skinny Hips” Hipskind 
in a matchup of two sopho­mores, dillon resident duffy best­ed Keenan’s hipskind to claim the championship in a referee stopped contest. 
both fighters came out with energetic demeanors, quick on their feet and with their hands. hipskind possessed a height ad­vantage over the shorter duffy, who chose to come out offensively to downplay his opponent’s length as much as he could. 
“i wanted to be as aggressive as possible,” he said. “i knew sean had a height and reach advantage, so i wanted to get inside him and wear him down.” 
duffy, a first-year bengal bouts competitor, used this aggressive approach to corner hipskind early on, leading to the first of three clinches of the fight. The pair fed each other simultaneous head-shots until a hipskind uppercut found an exposed part of duffy’s stomach. 
as the first round concluded, the two traded more punches to the head, with hipskind opting for hooks and duffy electing to use jabs. 
duffy’s approach continued into the second round, as he took high shots while hipskind went low to reach his opponent’s mid­section. after a long period of give and take, duffy trapped hipskind against the ropes and hit him with two strong uppercuts to the torso. 
duffy cornered hipskind twice more in the round, serving him with forceful headshots each time, but hipskind was not able to es­cape the third entrapment. after he received a bloody nose, the referee stopped the contest and awarded the title to duffy. 
with both fighters giving all they could offensively, the win­ner said he knew it would be a long and tough bout. 
“my mindset was ‘be ready to go to war,’” duffy said. “i’ve got­ten to know sean through the bengal bouts program, and we’ve become friends throughout the season. we had sparred twice be­fore the tournament started, and both times there were some big punches, bloody noses and black eyes from both sides. i knew this time would be no different.” 
155-pound: Garrity “Biscuit” McOsker def. Joey “Kangaroo” Kim 
in the fourth bout of the eve­ning, sophomore garrity mcosker took the 155-pound crown from senior Joey Kim. 
both fighters showed their prior finals experience by standing in strong defensive stances and fir­ing with strong, calculated punch­es. last year, mcosker was the 154-pound class runner-up, while Kim claimed the 158-pound title. 
in this fight, Kim held the height advantage, though mcosker’s strength matched the pair up evenly. mcosker used his lower center of gravity to duck from punches and stay steady when the taller Kim made contact. 
“i was constantly changing my distance, changing my rhythm,” mcosker said. 
The even fight continued into the second round, with both mak­ing contact to the other’s head. mcosker utilized a one-two com­bination to combat Kim’s high jabs to the head. one of these punches sent mcosker back a few steps, but he quickly recovered to land his own headshots and hold his ad­vantage as the second-round bell dinged. 
in the third, Kim alternated high and low punches to try to turn the momentum in his direc­tion. mcosker made contact with Kim’s head, but Kim responded with a forceful cut to mcosker’s stomach. 
after a clinch, Kim blocked several of mcosker’s jabs before launching a series of his own punches. The bout quietly came to a close with both boxers in the defensive stance, and mcosker captured the title by unanimous decision. 
“it’s been a wonderful year, and it feels great [to win], especially after getting so close last year in a fight that was similar because it was so highly contested with two great fighters, but to be able to win this time was incredible,” mcosker said. 
162-pound: Danny “Natty” Leicht def. Chris “The Crank” DeLillo 
senior captain danny leicht avenged his semifinals loss last year when he claimed a win this year over fellow senior chris delillo. 
as the bout began, the two box­ers displayed similar stances, staying low and in protective po­sitions. each used quick footwork to avoid the other’s early punches, setting the defensive tone of the first round. delillo landed an ear­ly shot to the head of leicht, and the pair exchanged one-two com­binations before clinching in the middle of the ring. leicht made contact with delillo’s head on a strong right hook right before the end-of-round bell rang. 
The fighters came out in the second round with more offensive mindsets, as delillo fired a series of headshots, and leicht respond­ed punch for punch. delillo fell to the mat when he took a forceful hit to the head and lost his foot­ing. The referee called a timeout to tend to delillo’s bloodied nose. 
leicht said he wanted to put his whole self into the fight and leave with no regrets, which he demon­strated with his relentless offense in the second and third rounds. 
“Just knowing it was my last one, [i wanted to] leave it all out there,” he said. 
coming out of the break, leicht gained momentum on a strong one-two to delillo’s jaw in com­bination with a series of jabs to his torso. The referee stopped time twice more in this round for trainers to tend to delillo’s bloody nose. 
in the final round, leicht con­tinued his display of power, with two headshots sending delillo to the ground once again. a fourth bloody nose turned out to be one too many for delillo, and the ref­eree stopped the contest in the 

paid adverTisemenT 


beginning of the round to award the championship to the captain. 
For leicht, the victory repre­sented a successful end to years of dedication to the program. 
“it feels great,” he said. “[it’s] the culmination of a couple years’ work, so it feels good.” 
166-pound: Jeff “Little Bear” Ulrich def. Patrick Shea 
senior captain Jeff ulrich de­feated patrick shea, the lone freshman finalist, to earn his first bengal bouts title. 
ulrich opened with a defensive approach, protecting himself and blocking shea’s strong jabs. since shea held the height advantage, ulrich kept low and avoided the freshman’s punches, waiting for slots to open up. 
“i tried to work levels, i guess, go low-high, … try to change angles,” ulrich said. 
using his jab, shea landed a few punches to ulrich’s stomach, but ulrich responded with a quick one-two combination. ulrich then went on the offensive by landing his left hook several times to shea’s head, though shea stood strong and countered with a few head shots of his own before the first round concluded. 
The second began with a more cautious and calculated approach from shea than in the first round. ulrich came out swinging, play­ing the role of the aggressor. shea gained strength and opened his stance more as the round pro­gressed before ulrich connected on a series of headshots. shea retreated into his defensive po­sition again, blocking ulrich’s punches to close the round. 
in the final round, shea came out strong with forceful jabs. The fighters traded punches for the re­mainder of the bout, both landing hooks to the other’s upper body. shea hit the captain with one final punch to the head to end the fight, but it was not enough, as ulrich claimed the unanimous victory. 
For ulrich, the culmination of four years of hard work and dedi­cation in his win was sweet, he said. 
“it was my first time even in the finals, so just getting the chance to be on the big stage was amazing,” he said. “i’ve put a lot of time and effort in, and i’m glad that it paid off, though honestly if i had lost to pat, that would be awesome too because he’s a great fighter, and he might never lose a fight [again].” 
Kit Loughran contributed to this report. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
168-pound: Sunoh Choe “No Mercy” def. Alex “El Gatito Loco” Oloriz 
both senior alex oloriz and senior sunoh choe utilized their quick hands, which made for a 
see Finals PAGE 17 



Alberdi def. Brian “Smiles” bengal bouts in 1982. 
Finals 

Salvi “There’s a little bit of family 
conTinued From page 16 

in their fight, both law stu-bragging rights,” manfreda said. fast-paced fight when the boxers dent brian salvi and senior ryan “i kind of had to win.” began to throw their gloves. The alberdi danced around in the first two seasoned boxers threw solid round and started slowly to deter-205-pound: Brian “Long punches but fought conservative-mine the other’s style. Arms of the Law” Ellixson ly in the first round. choe said this salvi utilized a leveled tech-def. Brian “Caesar” Salat fit in well with his strategy. nique, alternating body shots with law student brian ellixson was 
“i wanted to keep everything head shots. senior ryan alberdi hard-charging with his one-two, really tight, conservative, make blocked well and moved fluidly but senior brian salat was cau­sure i wasn’t punching too wide or around the ring. he repeatedly tious and used good footwork to wild or anything,” choe said. “he darted in with his jab, but salvi’s avoid taking too many shots. salat covered up really well so i was go-right hook kept him from stay-tried to work inside with powerful ing to use different punches and ing inside, which alberdi said he body shots and a straight right, throw them straight.” needed to do. but he dropped his right hand, 
oloriz and choe were more ag-“i knew salvi was a very good which allowed ellixson inside for gressive in the second round and opponent,” alberdi said. “he hits a jab-right-jab combination. expanded on their measured one-hard, he’s quick. my game plan “i’ve been aggressive through-two combinations. choe added was to keep my hands up and get out this tournament,” ellixson body shots, which oloriz coun-inside so that he couldn’t use his said. “i’d rather be dictating the tered with his right hook to push reach.” fight than let the fight come to me. choe away from the inside as both alberdi backed salvi into the he’s a great technical boxer and it boxers settled into the fight. ropes to start the second round, was a great fight.” 
“it takes me a while to loosen but salvi turned things around both boxers opened the sec-up,” choe said. “i found my open-and forced his opponent away ond round with aggressive in­ings and realized i needed to start with a jab. alberdi answered with side work. salat used his jab and throwing heavier punches or he a sweeping left hook.  salvi re-straight right, while ellixson em-allowing four hits. georgia Tech 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 

was going to keep coming at me.” turned to his up-down approach ployed hooks. salat was effective 
sports writer took a 1-0 lead in the top of the fourth choe opened the third round with success, but alberdi hit him with well-timed single jabs and 
inning, but stuhr quickly answered with a flurry of hooks that put with a straight right and left-right kept ellixson at bay as long as he 
This weekend the irish captured with a home run to tie the game. a oloriz on the ropes, but oloriz hook combination. To start the kept his hands up. 
their eighth consecutive win, com-difficult catch by Koerner in the top fought his way out of the corner. third round, alberdi boxed salvi in the third round, salat made 
pleting a weekend sweep for the of the fifth gave the irish a surge of oloriz turned around and forced into the corner, which he said use of body shots in an effort to 
second time this season. notre momentum, which they built on choe onto the ropes moments played into his strategy. keep ellixson off balance. visibly 
dame (12-5) secured four wins in the bottom of the inning when later. choe threw a final set of “That’s exactly what i wanted to tired, both boxers powered 
between saturday and sunday in junior infielder chloe saganowich hooks to close the fight and oloriz do,” alberdi said. “get him in the through the round. 
Kissimmee, Fla., at the diamond 9 drove simon and freshman infield-responded with two one-two corner, so he couldn’t throw his “it’s two minutes and the year’s 
citrus classic. er carly piccinich home to take a 3-1 combinations. power punches.” over,” ellixson said. “you think 
The squad took an early start to lead. another home run by stuhr in choe won the fight by split salvi continued using his reach of all the hard work. it’s a lot eas­
the weekend saturday, knocking the bottom of the sixth pushed the decision. to land effective jabs, but he held ier when you put that in perspec­
down boston college 14-3 in five in-lead to 4-1 and a two-run homer by back with his right hand. alberdi tive, just to push for those last 
nings and georgia Tech 6-2. sunday whidden rounded out the scoring 176-pound: Brett “Italian let his hands fly for two series of minutes.” 
they continued strong performanc-at 6-1. Ice” Sassetti def. Pat “No left-right hooks. salvi countered ellixson came back with a right 
es, shutting out liu brooklyn 5-0 o’donnell navigated the irish MRSA” Bishop with a jab and powerful right hook to salat’s face and one to 
and beating maryland 5-3. senior through the game against liu Junior brett sassetti used his jab hook, but it was too late for him the side of the head. both box-
catcher amy buntin and sopho-(2-17), striking out eight hitters. effectively in the first round as he to steal the win. alberdi won by ers swung away to close out the 
more infielder Jenna simon led the offensively, notre dame took con-stepped into the ring with senior unanimous decision. round. ellixson landed several 
offensive, as buntin had a home run trol in the top of the first when an pat bishop. he strung multiple hooks and salat made use of his 
and four rbi and simon contrib-rbi from sophomore infielder Katey jabs together to push bishop away 194-pound: Bobby “Softie” straight right, but it was ellixson 
uted four hits and two runs scored. haus brought senior outfielder from the inside, which gave him Manfreda def. Ricky who won by unanimous decision. 
strongperformancesonthemound Kelsey Thornton home from third room to throw his straight right. “Scooter” Neville 
from senior brittany o’donnell and to take an early lead. bishop feinted frequently and The first round opened with Heavyweight: Dan Yi def. 
junior laura winter held a strong “our hitting and pitching was a quickly, but took a few sharp jabs a series of cautious one-two Mike Broghammer 
defense. definite strength for us this week-to the face. a flurry of one-twos exchanges, but senior bobby in the opening moments of 
“Two sweeps in a row is huge for end,” lux said. “our pitchers did an forced bishop into the corner. manfreda landed a left hook that the first round, senior mike 
us, especially going into spring break excellent job of keeping us in ball unable to fight his way out, bishop broke up the tentative exchange broghammer used his height to 
next week where we are scheduled games, and our hitters were ex-tried to dance out of the corner but and opened up the fight. as the punch the shorter junior dan yi 
to play some very good teams,” irish tremely consistent this weekend.” took a hook to the side of his head punches became stronger and over the top of yi’s blocks. yi re-
senior infielder Kathryn lux said. in the top of the sixth simon and on his way out. more frequent, manfreda and sponded with a well-timed one­
“This has given us the momentum buntin jumpstarted the offense in the second round, bishop junior ricky neville both threw a two combination and used his 
we need to keep this streak going.” once again when buntin’s fly ball blocked better and answered series of hooks. quick footwork to move away. 
a grand slam from sophomore sent simon home from third to put sassetti with a few jabs and both boxers let their hands fly “he’s really, really tall,” yi said. 
outfielder emilee Koerner gave the the irish at 2-0. a series of walks gave straight rights. but sassetti mini-more in the second round and “[my strategy] was to wait for him 
irish an early lead against boston saganowich the third irish run. mized damage by preventing used effective jab-right-hook to reach in, if he does, keep my 
college (4-5), fueling the irish of-buntin closed out the morning with bishop from staying inside too combinations. neville turned to distance and wait for my oppor­
fense. lux started the action in the a home run, pushing the score to long. as sassetti visibly tired, a quick one-two-three strategy, tunity to attack. and that’s what 
bottom of the second, hitting an 5-0. bishop took advantage and struck darting in for the jab-right-jab or happened.” 
rbi single to send junior outfielder whidden led notre dame against with a well-timed jab and straight jab-right-hook, then dashing out. when broghammer came 
lauren stuhr home and give the maryland (4-10), hitting a three-run right. with his face bloodied in the manfreda held him at bay with inside again, yi delivered a jab­
irish a 1-0 lead. a string of walks and home run in the top of the sixth after third round, bishop continued to one-two combinations of his own. right combination and series of 
an error allowed sophomore catcher a twelve-pitch battle with Terrapin fight back, which made the bout manfreda nailed a straight right body shots. broghammer and 
cassidy whidden and lux to score, freshman pitcher brenna nation. a close decision. he started the that knocked neville off balance yi worked around the ring for a 
putting notre dame up 3-0. senior The home run gave the irish the round aggressively with a crisp while both were inside for a se-few seconds before yi slammed 
outfielder Kelsey Thornton loaded 5-3 lead, and would prove to be the one-two combination, before ries of combinations. manfreda broghammer with a clean, pow-
the bases when a pitch hit her, mak-final run of the game. winter won working his way inside to throw showed considerable endurance erful one-two combination that 
ing room for Koerner’s grand slam. her fourth consecutive game on the two uppercuts. in the later rounds, which he said sent him sprawling to the mat. 
“we had a lot of big hits over the mound, putting away the last six “That’s when i kind of said ‘screw gave him an advantage. “i don’t think i’ve ever been in a 
course of the weekend, which really batters of the game to close out the it, i’m just going wild,’” sassetti “i felt throughout the fight situation like that before,” yi said. 
kept the momentum going in our weekend. said. “i lost my technique and was stamina-wise, i was able to keep “it happened super quick. i leaned 
favor,” lux said. “The difference for us is just play-just kind of going for brawling.” moving, keep punching, which back and saw him coming in. i 
in the bottom of the fourth, ing together as a team, and getting sassetti responded with a helped me in the later rounds,” threw the right hand, i think, and 
doubles from freshman infielder the job done when it is needed,” lux straight right and right hook manfreda said. he was down and not getting up.” 
micaela arizmendi and junior out-said. “no matter who is out on the straight to bishop’s face. both manfreda waited for opportu-yi won by referee stopped con-
fielder monica Torres paired with field, we all have confidence in each boxers tired by the middle of the nities to throw well-timed com-test 17 seconds into the first round. 
consecutive rbi singles from simon other.” round and brawled with body binations in the third round and 
and Thornton to close out the game The irish next travel to phoenix shots before closing the bout with this strategy sealed his victory by Casey Karnes contributed to 
early when notre dame reached 14 for the asu diamond devil a final jab each. sassetti won by unanimous decision. this report. 
runs. invitational march 9-10. split decision. manfreda was especially ex­
winter’s pitching held strong cited about the win because his Contact Samantha Zuba at 
against georgia Tech (10-11), strik-Contact Megan Finneran at 185-pound: Ryan “Dirty” father won when he competed in szuba@nd.edu 
ing out nine yellow Jackets and only mfinnera@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Kemp 
conTinued From page 20 
“he doesn’t give away any­thing,” corrigan said. “Teams really have to beat him to get a goal. as good as our defense is, as smart as our defense is, they don’t leave him hanging out to dry a lot. but when they do, he’s big. he made a couple [saves] today that you have no right to expect.” 
The win is notre dame’s sec­ond straight overtime win over a top-10 opponent. it beat no. 8 penn state on the road Feb. 24 by an identical score of 10-9. 
“i feel a little bit like i did last week,” corrigan said. “i know we can play better. we’ll keep trying to play better. but we’re making plays right now.” 
after a tightly contested first half, notre dame held a slight one-goal lead. 
but everything unraveled for the irish in the third quar­ter, as that lead turned into 
Cooley 
conTinued From page 20 
marquette went to their big men early, led by gardner and otule. otule tied a season-high with 16 points on 8-for-8 shooting. 
Junior forward Jamil wilson, who has scored in double-figures in seven of his last eight games, tied a career-high with 19 points, including a three-point play with 
4:13 left in the game that put the marquette lead back at 11. 
“i was scared of both [otule and gardner],” brey said. “otule has really good footwork in the post and buried us a couple of time and really got deep post position, which was hard to re­cover from. a couple of times, we played pretty good post defense, and it was such a good night for them, they made some tough jump hooks.” 
The irish made things inter­esting in the last 10 minutes of the second half, as a free-throw a three-goal deficit. north carolina capitalized on scoring opportunities, gained posses­sion on critical ground balls and was more physical than notre dame. 
“That’s a really good team — north carolina,” corrigan said. “They’re a particularly good, i thought, ground-ball team. we hadn’t come up with a lot [of ground balls] late in the game when we had some chances on those tough balls.” 
but the irish turned it around when it mattered most. 
“hopefully, we can get back and understand who we are and be a little more effective so we don’t have to go to overtime ev­ery week,” corrigan said. “it says so much about our guys with the way they’ve battled back the last two weeks.” 
notre dame’s next contest is against hofstra on saturday in arlotta stadium at noon. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
by junior guard Jerian grant with 7:30 left cut the lead to single digits for the first time since midway through the first half. grant led the way for the irish with 21 points and seven rebounds. 
a dunk off an inbound pass by freshman forward Zach auguste cut the marquette lead to eight with 4:17 left and capped a 10-3 irish run before the golden eagles pulled away. auguste notched a career-high with 15 points, while atkins added 16 points and six assists. 
The irish currently sit in a tie with no. 12 syracuse for fifth place in the big east and are a half game behind fourth-place pittsburgh. notre dame will close out the season with senior night on Tuesday against st. John’s before the regular-season finale at no. 10 louisville on saturday. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

HOCKEY | nd 4, bgsu 3; nd 4, bgsu 1 
irish sweep to clinch 2nd 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 

no. 12 notre dame took care of business in its at­tempt to win the ccha regular-season champion­ship by sweeping visiting bowling green on Friday and saturday in the final regular-season conference games of the season. 
however, miami’s victory over ohio state on saturday clinched the regular-season title for the redhawks, and the irish finished in second place. 
The irish (21-12-3, 17-8-3­2 ccha) entered the week­end in third place in the conference. Thanks to a 4-3 victory Friday and a 4-1 win saturday over the Falcons (13-18-5, 10-15-3-1) and western michigan’s loss saturday to michigan state, notre dame jumped the broncos in the standings but could not catch miami. The pair of wins stretched notre dame’s unbeaten streak to five games, and the irish have lost just once in their last nine contests. 
“obviously, first [place] would have been prefer­able, but for what happened to us in January, for us to re­bound the way we have here in the last month is really good, because at least we go into the playoffs going in the right direction,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
notre dame scored 5:31 into the game saturday when freshman forward mario lucia put away a shot near the top of the crease 
“Obviously, first [place] would have been preferable, but for what happened to us in January, for us to rebound the way we have here in the last month is really good.” 
Jeff Jackson 
Irish coach 

off a pass from sophomore defenseman robbie russo, who was behind the goal. Falcon junior forward andrew wallace responded later in the first to tie the score at one. 
The irish dominated play in the second period — out-shooting the Falcons 13-4 
— and scored the only goal of the period when junior center david gerths inter­cepted an errant pass from Falcon senior goaltender andrew hammond and shot the puck past a scrambling hammond. 
“[gerths has] been play­ing extremely well here for the last few months,” Jackson said. “i think he’s really elevated his game, which has made us a better team obviously. it gives us a little bit more scoring depth on our lines.” 
Junior center and cap­tain anders lee added his team-leading 18th goal of the season early in the third period, and senior forward nick larson sealed the game for the irish with 2:23 remaining. 
all four seniors — larson, forward Kevin nugent, de­fenseman sam calabrese and goaltender mike Johnson — started saturday for the irish. Johnson fin­ished with 26 saves in just his seventh appearance of the season. 
“The team played awe­some in front of me all game, so it made my job a lot easier,” Johnson said. “They’re a tough team to play against. They get to the net and get pucks to the net, so our guys were able to clear the rebounds and keep their chances to a minimum, which really helped me out, and it was really nice to get the win tonight.” 
like saturday, the irish had a 4-1 lead Friday, but the Falcons cut the deficit to 4-3 with two goals 1:01 apart late in the second period. Junior goaltender steven summerhays was able to shut the door in the third period, and notre dame held on for the win. 
Junior center T.J. Tynan and lucia each scored pow­er play goals in the second period, ending a 0-for-17 skid that spanned more than four games. 

“our power play strug­gled a little bit, so espe­cially getting my goal and then lucia’s goal is always a good thing,” Tynan said after Friday’s game. “we got some good bounces tonight.” 
with a top-four finish in the conference, notre dame clinched a first-round bye in the ccha tournament and home ice advantage in the second round. The irish will host a best-of-three series against the second-lowest seed that advances past the first round — either michigan, lake superior state, bowling green or northern michigan — which Jackson said will be a difficult test. 
“our second round op­ponent is going to be an extremely good team re­gardless of who it is and it’ll be challenging,” Jackson said. “i think our whole conference is that way, but we’ll have a tough second round and our goal is to get to Joe louis [arena for the ccha semifinals and championship]. we reached our first objective, which was to finish in the top four of the league, and now our next objective is to get to detroit.” 
notre dame is next in ac­tion when it hosts the first game of the second round of the ccha tournament on march 15. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTricK cross 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: nathalie Kelley, 28; Jessica biel, 31; Julie bowen, 43; Jackie Joyner-Kersee, 51. 
Happy Birthday: everything depends on the way you follow through. stick to your plans, but explore the creative side to whatever you pursue. it’s keeping what you do and the way you think fresh that will draw attention and the support to reach your goals. contracts will play in your favor and improve your life. your numbers are 7, 13, 22, 27, 34, 39, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): sulking behind closed doors won’t solve your prob­lems. you have to open up discussions that will allow you to show your concerns and fight for a turn to follow a path that is going to help you get ahead, not someone else.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): sharing will bring you the best results. a partner­ship that has potential will develop with someone you meet while helping others. love is highlighted and short trips or attending a community event will lead to romance. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): confusion is apparent. withholding information will lead to a lack of communication in which nothing can be resolved. consider who you are hurting by keeping pertinent information a secret. wager the pros and cons and make a move.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you’ll impress everyone with your memory, knowledge and experience. Traveling to a unique destination or getting involved in an activity or event that is unusual will spark your interest in someone who will enrich your love life. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): problems getting information straight or discussing joint ventures are apparent. before you sign documents or give the go-ahead to some­one who influences your life, you are best to double-check the consequences that might develop. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): discuss your plans and share your thoughts with someone you think highly of, and you will come up with a feasible way to proceed. much can be accomplished in your personal life with a little collaboration and cooperation. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): consider your original plan and what your goals were when you were growing up. Focus on what you have to do to alter your life and turn your dream into a reality. change is heading your way. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): show how serious you are by taking charge and let­ting whomever you are dealing with know where you stand. Take on a physical challenge, and you will impress others and experience success. love is in the stars. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep your eyes and ears open. not everyone will be truthful regarding motives and intentions. protect your heart, your assets and your emotional wellness. dishonesty, secrets and disillusionment are present and can lead to personal and financial loss. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take a different approach to an old idea. engaging in activities that you used to do will bring you in contact with old familiar places and people. a past partner will help you remember the simple pleasures in life. 



AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you will learn from observation. spend quality time with people you feel share your likes, dislikes and future goals. picking up new skills or applying for something that will allow you to raise your living standard should be your intent.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): embrace opportunities to try something new. love will lead to commitment and a chance to stabilize your life mentally, emotionally and financially. learn from past mistakes and take care of legal concerns.  



Birthday Baby: you are versatile, unique and imaginative. you are loving and kind. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
BENGAL BOUTS MEN’S BASKETBALL | marQueTTe 72, nd 64 
Going out with a bang 
Twelve champions crowned on tournament’s biggest stage 
slow start dooms irish at marquette 

By MARY GREEN sports writer  
138-pound: Suave” Lally Frego  J ack def.  “Rico Mark  

in the opening fight of the 83rd bengal bouts finals, the senior captain Jack lally won by unani­mous decision and became only the 12th competitor in bengal bouts history to win his weight class all four years. The possibil­ity of earning that distinction placed many expectations on the senior, pressure he said only dis­sipated once the fight was over. 

“[it’s] just a sense of relief,” he said. “it’s a lot of pressure that i’ve put on myself … and it’s just nice to have that achievement under my belt.” 
lally began with an aggressive approach, while the sophomore Frego elected to take the defen­sive, avoiding lally’s jabs with quick steps around the ring. 
lally said he wanted to remain in a composed mindset that would carry him through the duration of the bout. 
“[my mindset was to] stay calm,” he said. “Just trust your skills, trust your fitness and ev­erything will take care of itself. i just didn’t want to let the emo­tions get to me before the fight.” 
lally did stay calm at the be­ginning, landing early body shots on Frego The sophomore responded with a quick one-two combination and avoided an en­trapment in the corner as the 
see bouTs PAGE 16 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
editor-in-chief 
in its last two games be­fore saturday, no. 21 notre dame had given up an average of just 41.5 points per game, breaking its record for fewest points allowed against big east competition. 
against no. 22 marquette on saturday, the irish gave up 41 in the first half alone before falling 72-64 at the bradley center in milwaukee. 
with the victory, marquette — 16-0 at home this season — ex­tended its home winning streak to 25 games and clinched a dou­ble-bye in next week’s big east tournament. The golden eagles (21-7, 12-4 big east) haven’t lost at home since 2011. 
irish forward Jack cooley (30 minutes per game, 13.9 points per game) scored zero points in 15 minutes of playing time, suf­fering from a flu virus that kept him out of action leading up to the matchup with the golden eagles. 
“[The rhythm] changed,” irish coach mike brey said dur­ing his postgame press confer­ence. “it changed. [cooley’s] our warrior. against [marquette se­nior center chris] otule and [ju­nior forward davante] gardner, you want to have Jack cooley. you want to have that guy. he scrimmaged wednesday, and he didn’t do anything Thursday or Friday. he was in the health center Thursday night.” 
“[…] in hindsight, i probably shouldn’t have started him and when your main guy says he’s a go, you have got to give him a chance to sweat it out.” 
notre dame (22-7, 10-6) has lost three of its last four on the road and continued to struggle with a slow start. marquette jumped out to a 12-3 lead on 5-for-5 shooting and didn’t miss a shot until four and a half min­utes into the game. The golden eagles started the game on an 18-6 run. 
“i give them a lot of credit,” brey said. “when they get two buckets in the paint to start, it just sets a heck of a tone. and it seemed like it was so hard for us to score. … we get worn out early and just try to make a run.” 
marquette shot 64 percent in the first half compared to notre dame’s 37 percent, which lead to a 16-point golden eagles lead with 4:26 to go in the first half. 
“The last couple of times on the road, people have scored right away, off the tip on their first possession,” junior guard eric atkins said. “we have to do better at that. mentally, it kind of hurts you a bit being on the road and being scored on early. it’s one thing that carried over to the offensive side of the ball.” 
with cooley’s absence, 
see cooley PAGE 18 

MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 10, norTh carolina 9 (3oT) 
Kavanagh powers squad to dramatic victory 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
sixty minutes were not enough. neither were 64 or 
68. but in the third overtime period, junior midfielder Jim marlatt came away with a cru­cial ground ball and managed a pass to freshman attack matt Kavanagh. Kavanagh made one quick move and buried the game-winning goal for a 10-9 win over no. 9 north carolina in arlotta stadium on saturday. 
“i’ve got to give our guys a ton of credit for the way they keep coming back in those kinds of situations,” irish coach Kevin corrigan said. “but i wish we wouldn’t do that. it’s hard on the heart.” 
The cold conditions quickly gave way to a heated contest between two of the best teams in the country. with just one minute remaining, no. 2 notre dame (3-0) found itself down 9-7, desperate for a goal. The irish gained possession and drew a 30-second penalty. Just six sec­onds out of a north carolina (2-2) timeout, Kavanagh found senior attack sean rogers for a goal. rogers had two goals and an assist in the game. 
Junior midfielder liam o’connor won the ensuing fa­ceoff, and with 11 seconds left, sophomore attack conor doyle found Kavanagh for the equaliz­er. doyle finished with one goal and two assists. 
“They were playing a zone,” Kavanagh said. “so we drew up a play that was definitely working for us during the fourth quarter. and then we ran that again.” 
Kavanagh had another big day with four goals and two assists. he now has eight goals this year in just three games. 
corrigan and his coaching staff recognized a wrinkle in the irish offense they could exploit against the Tar heel defense. 
“we had some action that they were having trouble covering,” corrigan said. “we kept tweak­ing it every time so that we got a little something different ev­ery time. we felt like we really got what we wanted on most of them, we just didn’t put them away. Their goalie made some saves and we missed a couple shots. all in all, that’s the best execution we had all day. if we had executed that way all day, for four quarters, we would have had more than nine goals. i guess we did it when we had to.” 
notre dame survived the first two sudden death periods on two impressive saves by senior goaltender John Kemp. 
see Kemp PAGE 18 


GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 

Junior midfielder Jim Marlatt looks for a pass in a game against Prov­idence on April 7. Marlatt had the game-winning assist against UNC. 



