The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 120 | FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
‘A call to action’ 
Campus to unite in Relay for Life, raise funds for cancer research 
By MARISA IATI 
assistant managing editor 
For junior Jenny Fucillo, los­ing her grandmother to multiple myeloma in January was “a call to action.” 
“i had never been touched by someone who was part of my everyday life who had passed from cancer,” Fucillo said. “and going to the hospital and see­ing the hard work that nurses do and doctors do, i just wanted to be a part of something i felt like i could do.” 
inspired by her experience, Fucillo is now one of the biggest fundraisers of more than 1,000 participants in tonight’s relay for life at the compton Family ice arena. From 6 p.m. until 9 
a.m. tomorrow, members of the notre dame community will walk to commemorate people affected by cancer and raise money for the american cancer society. 
This is Fucillo’s first time par­ticipating in relay for life, she said, and she was overwhelmed by the amount of support she received from her family when fundraising. 
“i think it’s because we all went through [my grandmoth­er’s death],” she said. “i think it was a wake-up call for all of us 
see relay PAGE 6 

SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 
Participants in the 2012 Relay for Life walk around Notre Dame Stadium. This year’s event will take place in the Compton Family Ice Arena for the first time. 



Professor receives awards 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
in June, theology profes­sor sr. mary catherine hilkert did something nearly unprec­edented: receiving both the ann 


o’hara graff memorial award and the veritas award, which fo­cus on theological anthropology, fundamental theology and femi­nist theology and spirituality. 
The women’s consultation in constructive Theology of the catholic Theological society of america annually grants the ann o’hara graff memorial award, which is named for a no­table scholar who demonstrated the intersection of faith, schol­arship and experience, hilkert said. 

“They are especially interested in some kind of woman-defined scholarship, … scholarship and liberating action on behalf of women in the church and in the broader community,” hilkert said. 
hilkert said receiving the award was especially significant because she was nominated by her colleagues. additionally, ann o’hara graff was a friend and colleague of hilkert’s — graff also worked in the field of theo­logical anthropology — which added even more significance to the award, hilkert said. 
hilkert said graff was very ac­complished despite her untimely death. she said she was honored to receive an award named for graff. 
“she died in her mid-40s, and even by that time she had made marvelous contributions to in­tegrating academic theology of the highest scholarship with people’s concrete lives and pas­toral experience,” hilkert said. “it meant a lot to be honored in her name.” 
see awards PAGE 7 


Town meets gown at symposium 
By GRACE McCORMACK 
news writer 
on one of the few occasions when a mayor outranks a president, south Bend mayor pete Buttigieg and student body president alex coccia discussed the evolving notre dame, south Bend relation­ship last night. 
The conversation, which was part of the siegfried symposium, brought Buttigieg and coccia to­gether with students and south Bend residents at the “Town and gown” event in the carey auditorium of hesburgh library. 
american studies professor robert schmuhl moderated the discussion, which addressed topics ranging from resident-student con­flict to the town’s best restaurants. 
Buttigieg, who grew up in south Bend before attending harvard, said although south Bend is not necessarily a strict college town, it presents many unique advantages for students. 
“[notre dame students] are at one of the most important moments in the life of the city,” Buttigieg said. “with that comes 
see symposium PAGE 5 



Researchers detect invasive species efficiently 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
a team of notre dame re­searchers has developed a transportable, two-part sys­tem for detecting the presence of invasive species in aquatic environments. 
The paper, published in the journal “conservation letters” and titled ‘rapid invasive spe­cies detection by combining environmental dna with light Transmission spectroscopy,’ details the team’s recent ef­forts to test its new invasive species detection process. 
scott egan, a biology re­search assistant professor, said the team’s recent efforts have been bringing the processes of testing for environmental dna (edna) and light Transmission spectroscopy (lTs) together as a way to detect the presence of invasive species in an aquatic environment. 
“edna and lTs are separate processes that each work on their own,” egan said. “The paper is about bringing the two processes together in the field. There are many problems of species detection where we can apply this environmental field diagnostic system.” 
according to the paper, this new, rapid, inexpensive and accurate on-site method of de­tecting harmful aquatic spe­cies will help ongoing efforts to prevent their introduction and 
see research PAGE 5 

Photo courtesy of Scott Egan 
Scientists in search of zebra mussels took samples of Eagle Lake in Michigan. They hope to return in spring to further their research. 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 10 scene PAGE 13 BaseBall PAGE 24 womens lacrosse PAGE 24 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 


If you could choose another major, what would it be? 


Margarita Arcenas 
sophomore 
mcglinn hall 
“if notre dame offered it, dance.” 

Andrea Carlson 
junior 
ryan hall 
“wine-making. i am, in fact, 21.” 

Emily Voorde 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“Biology or wood whittling.” 



Rob McKenna 
junior 
alumni hall 
“africana studies.” 

Rachel Tonnis 
junior 
ryan hall 
“Toss up between agricultural studies and canadian studies. ” 

Elizabeth Peterson 
junior 
ryan hall 
“chemistry.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

christian myers Brian hartnett Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: rebecca o’neil isaac lorton evelyn huang meri Kelly 

Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
steph wulz miko malabute 

Photo Viewpoint 

Relay for Life Women’s Softball Men’s Lacrosse ACMS Colloquium Etiquette Dinner 
wei lin laura rosas 

Compton Family Ice Melissa Cook Stadium Arlotta Stadium Hayes-Healy Center South Dining Hall Arena 12 p.m.-4 p.m. 11 a.m.-1 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 5:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-9 a.m. Doubleheader vs. Game vs. Georgetown. Speaker James Collins. Learn dining customs 




Corrections 

Fund cancer research. Rutgers. from around the world. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Women’s Lacrosse Duncan Classic Golf Sunday Mass Lecture: Young Four: 7 Catholic 
strives for the highest standards 
Arlotta Stadium Tournament Basilica of the Sacred Latinidad and the Fellowship 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
7 p.m. Notre Dame Golf Heart Future of America Cavanaugh Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
Game vs. Loyola. Course 10 a.m.-11 a.m. McKenna Hall 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
10 a.m. Music by the Notre 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. Student-led Catholic 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Individual nine-hole Dame Liturgical Choir. Speaker David Hayes-fellowship and 
we can correct our error. 

tournament. Bautista. discussion. 




students, faculty to display robotic creations 
By HENRY GENS 
news writer 
This sunday, 82 students and faculty from notre dame’s colleges of engineering and arts and letters, as well as the robinson community learning center, will cel­ebrate the fourth annual national robotics week by 
paid adverTisemenT 

displaying their robots in an open exhibition at the stepan center. 
laurel riek, assistant pro­fessor of computer science and engineering, is organiz­ing the second annual notre dame event. riek also or­ganized notre dame’s first national robotics week exhi­bition last year. 
riek said the expectation last year was to have a very simple event, but the atten­dance was much higher than anticipated. 
“last year, the plan was to have the event be a one-day, robot-themed science mu­seum to get the public excited about it,” riek said. “we end­ed up having over 600 people come to see the robots, and we got an overwhelmingly positive response from the community.” 

riek said the event grew out of an interdisciplinary, collaborative effort she im­plemented in her computer science and engineering course, autonomous mobile robots. 
“in 2012 i worked with Krista hoefle, an associate professor of art over at saint mary’s. her art students and my computer science students created ro­bots for the event together,” riek said. “i realized from that collaboration how art is a great way of engaging the public with robotics. we can design all these fantastic al­gorithms for our robots, but by enhancing them a little bit with art and making them be interactive, people can start to appreciate all the great en­gineering going on under the hood.” 
Jay Brockman, the associate dean of engineering for educational programs, said the robotics event is a key ini­tiative in fostering communi­ty engagement. 
“it fits into a grand vision of where we would like to see the college of engineering and the university be in five or so years, and that is to see a much better partnership between the university and the south Bend community,” Brockman said. 
Brockman also said the upcoming exhibition is im­portant for engendering in­terest in science, Technology, engineering and mathematics (sTem) disciplines. 
“a high school student of­ten says, ‘i do okay at math and science but i want to do 

paid adverTisemenT 
something that interests peo­ple, so i’m not going to major 


“We can design all these fantastic algorithms for our robots, but by enhancing them a little bit with art and making them be interactive, people can start to appreciate all the great engineering going on under the hood.” 
Laurel Riek 
assistant professor 
computer science and engineering 
in engineering or science,’” Brockman said. “But by seeing things like dr. riek’s work with robots applied to medicine, as well as all the entertaining ro­bots that will be at the event, it shows how interesting en­gineering is in a way that the community can really relate to.” 
a variety of robots will be on display and interacting with visitors at the event. For exam­ple, graduate students mike gonzales and Tariq iqbal have designed a disk jockey robot. 
“one of the robots that we are building is a dJ that will not only be playing music but will also sense and then judge how expressive and engaged participants are,” gonzales said. 
in addition to the robots themselves, students will dis­cuss some of the underlying mathematics. graduate stu­dent maryam moosaei will be demonstrating the facial tracking and pain detection algorithms she and other stu­dents in riek’s lab are using to create more realistic patient mannequins for training doc­tors and nurses. 
There will also be robotics-themed prizes raffled off at the event and T-shirts will be sold with all proceeds going to the donors choose fund to ben­efit local saint Joseph county school teachers, riek said. 
Two of the graduate students in riek’s lab, maria o’connor and cory hayes, plan to make even the raffle robotics-relat­ed, hayes said. 
hayes said the raffle tickets will be accepted by a small ro­bot designed to look like r2-d2 from the star wars movies. 
“we’re going to have a little r2-d2 robot that will wheel around beeping and accepting passports for the raffle, stop­ping to tell jokes every time someone submits one,” hayes said. 
The exhibition will be held from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. it is free and open to the public. 
Contact Henry Gens at hgens@nd.edu 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Female architect association hosts conference 
students mollie ponto and danielle students, veenstra said. she said potts through a grant from the the club is open to all students, re-Beverly willis foundation. The gardless of gender or major. club was created to promote the “The club is not exclusive to presence of women, gender equal-women,” veenstra said. “it’s used ity and diversity in both the design to talk about issues that profes­and construction industries, ac-sionals face in balancing career-cording to the website. building and family life. we invite 
sawa hosts lectures, spon-anyone to join.” sors professional development workshops and fosters inter-class Contact Cristina Sanchez at mentoring relationships between csanche7@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 


By CRISTINA SANCHEZ 
news writer 
notre dame alumnae gathered in Bond hall to celebrate 40 years of coeducation at the school of architecture on april 5 and 6. 
The alumnae were invited by the student association for women in architecture (sawa), which host­ed “Beyond the drafting Board: 40 years of women in architecture at notre dame,” a conference show­casing the achievements of female architecture graduates. 
Fifth-year architecture students Kaitlin veenstra, sawa president, and rebekah wierson, sawa vice president, organized the confer­ence under the guidance of pro­fessor aimee Buccellato, veenstra said. 
The conference was open to stu­dents, faculty and guests, featur­ing five speakers who reflected on their experiences at the school of architecture and recounted their contributions to the field, veenstra said. 
“we wanted women from dif­ferent decades to speak at the conference,” said veenstra. 
martha lampkin wellborne, a 1975 notre dame graduate and executive director of countywide planning, los angeles county metropolitan Transportation authority delivered the keynote address, wierson said. 
“wellborne and only one other student were the first fe­male graduates of the school of architecture,” said wierson. 
wellborne’s work has included both individual building designs as well as large-scale projects, wierson said. she said wellborne is credited with the los angeles surface transit project, which led to the creation of the countywide metro rapid bus system. 
another prominent guest speakers was melissa del vecchio a 1994 graduate and the principal architect of notre dame’s stayer center for executive education, veenstra said. 
The speakers engaged in a ca­reer panel discussion april 5, wierson said. she said the round-table discussion provided set­ting for architecture students and professionals to interact with one another. 

“it was a great opportunity for female architecture students to network and learn how to build their careers,” said wierson. 
veenstra said the purpose of the discussion was to help students find the right places for them in the architecture profession.
 “The purpose of the panel dis­cussion and the conference in gen­eral was to provide students with advice on how to find their niche in architecture,” veenstra said. 
wierson said the main focus of the conference was the experienc­es of the alumnae speakers. 
“The goal was for the speakers to talk about their journeys. They just followed what they love to do,” said wierson. 
Both veenstra and wierson said they hope the success of the con­ference will lead to increased stu­dent involvement in sawa. 
“The conference was a good way to catapult the club into the future,” said wierson. 
according to the club’s website, sawa was founded in 2007 by 
hall puts wheels on the court 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
The wildcats of ryan hall will continue their history of supporting people with disabilities sunday dur­ing their second annual wheelchair Basketball Tournament. 
sophomore emily voorde, who founded the event last year, said the five-on-five tournament is open to all undergraduate students and registration costs $25 per team. The tournament promotes dis­ability awareness on campus and raises funds for the wheelchair Foundation, she said. 
Junior ali Quinn, co-planner of the event, said the wheelchair Foundation is an international organization that provides wheel­chairs to people with disabilities who cannot afford them. she said for every $150 raised, the founda­tion will be able to provide one chair to a person in need. 
Through the wheelchair Foundation, ryan hall can provide one wheelchair for every six teams that participate in the tournament, voorde said. The chairs provided by the wheelchair Foundation of­ten enable people to participate in school or professional occupations when they otherwise would not be able to do so, she said. 
“in some countries, children are unable to attend school and adults are unable to attend work, simply because they are physically unable without access to a chair,” voorde said. “providing chairs to over 152 countries, including the [united states], the wheelchair Foundation truly does fantastic work.” 
voorde said the most important aspect of the tournament for her is helping at least one person access a needed wheelchair. 
“even if we only help one person, that is enough for me,” voorde said. “everything becomes worthwhile.” 
Quinn said the wheelchair Basketball Tournament holds spe­cial importance for the completely handicap-accessible hall she calls home. corbett ryan, a notre dame alumnus and a member of the family that funded construction of ryan hall, relies on assistance from a wheelchair and a walker. 
corbett ryan aimed to build a completely accessible dorm, Quinn said. accordingly, ryan hall has two elevators, wide hallways and accessible rooms. 
“emily [voorde] came up with the [wheelchair basketball] event idea last year,” Quinn said. “it fit right into the spirit of the dorm and why it was built: to be accessible for everyone. it is a unique event but holds immense importance to the history of the dorm as well.” 
aiding people with disabilities is a personal cause for voorde, who was born with osteogenesis imper­fecta, or brittle bone disease, and has relied on a manual wheelchair since birth. she said she is a wheel­chair basketball player and enjoys the game for the competitive aspect and the friendships it fosters. 
“i began casually playing wheel­chair basketball with a local team about eight years ago,” voorde said. “i immediately loved the game be­cause it allowed me to remain ath­letically competitive while bonding with other individuals in chairs. wheelchair basketball is not all that different from able-bodied basket­ball: same rules, same game, just on wheels.” 
voorde said ryan’s tournament is especially exciting because anyone can participate, disabled or not. 
“The beauty about able-bodied, wheelchair basketball is that every­one is suddenly on the same play­ing field,” she said. “it doesn’t matter if you’re athletic or not, everyone has to learn to adapt.” 
voorde and Quinn said they hope to register 32 teams for the tourna­ment, which is 14 more teams than participated last year. Quinn said registration for the tournament ends today. 

Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 


educators discuss migrant students 
Research 
conTinued From page 1 
spread. 
egan said although the pa­per only focuses on the tests the team performed to ensure the process works, the end goal is for the system to ad­dress the growing problem of invasive species. 
“in the end, this is intended to solve real problems,” egan said. “invasive species threat­en biodiversity and the func­tioning of ecosystems and economies worldwide.” 
a specific example of where the new system could be used is testing ballast water of ships used for buoyancy in the great lakes region, egan said. 
“we hope to get this [equip­ment] on ships coming into our country, into the great lakes, and stop the invasions before they start or while the invasive species are in small enough numbers to elimi­nate,” he said. “This approach lowers the cost to society of protecting our great lakes eco­systems.  it’s much harder to remove species after they’ve begun to spread, and some species are so prevalent now that we can’t get rid of them.” 
egan said the system can be applied to any situation that requires identifying particular organisms in an environment. egan said the team has talked about using the system to detect disease-causing organisms and other pests, and the process could even be used for terrestrial environments by testing streams or other bodies of water that contain the runoff from the target area. 

The testing involved two steps, egan said. First, the team took water samples from the lakes on campus and seed­ed them with tissue samples from five high-risk invasive species, and then successfully used their system to detect the invasive species. second, they took samples from eagle lake, which is just across the border in michigan, and successfully tested for an invasive species of zebra mussels, known to be in eagle lake. 
egan said the process in­volves filtering all biomate­rial from the water sample, extracting any dna, expos­ing the dna to nanoparticles that only attach to particular dna sequences unique to a certain species, and then us­ing lTs to observe whether or not the nanoparticles have attached to any dna from the sample. 
egan said the team had to design the nanoparticles, called oligonucleotides, so they would only attach to particular sequences unique to several common invasive species. 
“our procedure was to look for diagnostic species specific dna variation, which is basi­cally just finding a unique se­quence of the a’s, c’s, g’s and T’s of dna for each species we wanted to detect and then functionalize the nanopar­ticles that only bond to that particular sequence,” he said. 
egan said so far the team has only performed the dna extraction and lTs in the lab, but they hope to perform the whole process in the field this spring. 
“each one of the compo­nents works and can work in the field, but we haven’t yet done everything in the field. we hope to do that at eagle lake this spring,” he said. 
The research system was comprised of egan, matthew Barnes, ching-Ting hwang, andrew mahon, Jeffery Feder, steven ruggiero, carol Tanner and david lodge. egan said he is from the biology de­partment and works with the advanced diagnostics and Therapeutics initiative (ad&T), but there were other team members affiliated with the physics department fac­ulty and the environmental change initiative (eci). 
egan said the interdisci­plinary nature of the project and the collaboration of re­searchers from different dis­ciplines were the best aspects of working on the detection system. 
“one of the coolest parts of this project is that it exem­plifies the purpose of these initiatives to promote inter­disciplinary work,” egan said. “we have a great mix of scien­tists coming together to have a real impact on a significant real world problem.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
children are truly our future, which is why a saint mary’s club held an event last night to discuss the education of migrant children. 
The college club la Fuerza con­cluded its annual “week of action” Thursday with a discussion titled ‘migrant children and Their education.’ elizabeth dennie, who recently completed her master’s degree in education leadership at saint may’s, led the discussion. 
First-year student Fallon Brandis said she appreciated the chance to learn about migration from a new perspective. 
“i just think this is a really per­tinent topic, especially in poli­tics, and it’s so interesting to learn about the other side of migration,” Brandis said. 
dennie told the group about her thesis for the master’s program and her continued research titled ‘The migrant experience: not leaving migrant students Behind.’ she said she struggled to find information on this topic because there is rela­tively little available. 
dennie shared several stories 


Symposium 
conTinued From page 1 
great opportunity.” 
Buttigieg said these opportuni­ties include not only service through events like communiversity day, but careers as well. 
“more and more students are starting businesses while still in college,” Buttigieg said. “south Bend is a good environment to do that.” 
Buttigieg said as south Bend has grown from its strictly industrial roots, its connection with notre dame has evolved. 
“The [notre dame, south Bend] relationship is at an all-time high. … it’s a set of overlapping relation­ships … economic, social, and cul­tural,” he said. 
Buttigieg said there are as many challenging problems and engag­ing environments in south Bend as anywhere else students might seek them. 
“if you can commit a summer to south Bend, … i can probably help you find environments and areas and communities that you would find no less challenging and inter­esting and eye-opening than one that is 1,000 miles away,” he said. 
coccia, who has volunteered in the community since his freshman year, said he recognizes the advan­tages of notre dame’s close rela­tionship with its surrounding city. 
“There’s a lot of opportunities in south Bend, and where i see stu­dent government fitting in is really providing and facilitating that re­lationship for students to have ac­cess to those opportunities,” coccia said. 
coccia said students need not wait until they move off cam­pus to become engaged in the about her work with children and stressed the importance of dia­logue between teachers, admin­istrators and families to better the education of migrant children. she said the most important thing she learned in the process of obtaining her master’s degree was to allow children to enjoy their youth. 
“it sounds so stupid, but it’s so profound — kids are kids,” she said. “let them be kids. if you look around society, everything is push­ing kids to be older. They don’t know how to have fellowship.” 
several education majors asked dennie how to approach educat­ing migrant students in their future careers. dennie said it was impor­tant to develop relationships with the students in order to foster a love of learning that will bring with it academic success. 
dennie also said it is important to see past possible ethnic differ­ences when educating migrant children.
 “a lot of times we let so much divide us when we are so similar,” dennie said. 
Contact Haleight Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
community. he said he hopes more freshmen will take advantage of the city and in that way be ready if and when they make the move off campus. 
“my specific goal would be to get freshmen out there [in the south Bend community] early on,” coccia said. “i think that [community en­gagement] helps later relationships once you move off campus if you develop those relationships early on.” 
Buttigieg said despite some ten­sion in the relationship, sentiments between south Bend and notre dame are much more amiable than feelings between some other col­leges and cities. he said south Bend residents consider notre dame a piece of the larger community. 
“There are always areas where there can be friction, … but i also think it’s important to be conscious of how much less tension there is here than in most college towns,” he said. “i also sense sometimes a self-consciousness about how peo­ple at the university think they’re perceived [by residents], which overstates any tension which may be there.” 
Buttigieg and coccia said they look forward to continuing to im­prove the relationship between south Bend and notre dame. 
coccia said communication will be especially important to this goal going forward. 
”There definitely seems to be an open line of communication with the mayor’s office [from student government],” coccia said. 
Buttigieg said he and coccia have already met a few times since coccia’s election. 
Contact Grace McCormack at gmccorma@nd.edu 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
unlike Fucillo, however, Burdell their battles with the disease, transportation and other me-fundraiser for the relay event 
Relay 

is serving as one of two honor-Burdell said. nial things like that, which i at notre dame, according to the 
conTinued From page 1 

ary chairpersons. “it means something to those think is great because you don’t relay for life website. she said that we’re not going to have ev-a self-proclaimed “poster of us who have cancer and have realize how much more stress-relay’s commitment to increas­eryone for long. … my grand-child” for relay, Burdell is a sur-dealt with cancer,” he said. “it’s ful everything becomes when ing lifespans for people fighting mother was the toughest woman vivor of follicular lymphoma. a very engaging event, and it you have this one big thing on cancer is admirable. i know. and everything — my This type of blood and lymph means a lot to me … that peo-your mind.” “my dad, there’s not going to athletic abilities, my school eth-node cancer is non-curable and ple who don’t necessarily have relay for life shows people be a cure for him, unfortunately, ic — is all from her, and i feel like recurring but very treatable, he the disease are so touched by cancer affects everyone and en-and that’s the reality of it, but this is the least i can do for her.” said. people who do. … This is a way ables them to understand why relay for life really gives hope 
other students should not “There have been new treat-that they can take action, steps supporting cancer research is for other people,” she said. “it’s have to endure this type of ments found even since i was to actually do something to help important, Kennedy said. not, ‘right now we don’t have wake-up call to recognize the diagnosed that work better than the cause.” “i think every person has a a cure, that’s the end of it.’ … need to fund cancer research, when i was diagnosed due to re-Freshman Teresa Kennedy cancer story,” she said. “so, to what they stand for is really im-Fucillo said. search of lymphoma,” Burdell works alongside Burdell as the some extent, people have had portant to me because it helps 
“cancer is such a huge, broad said. “so, my cancer is one that student honorary chair of relay some kind of experience with potentially avoid the situation topic that i think it’s hard for has been very impacted by re-for life. she is a survivor of der-it, close or distant, but i think for people in the future. you people to be touched on person-cent research, and the treat-matofibrosarcoma protuberans, that this is something tangible never know how close we are to al levels,” she said. “i’m hoping ment available to me is even a rare form of soft tissue cancer. that people can grab onto in or-finding a cure.” that other students will kind of better than it was three years Kennedy was diagnosed when der to deal with that burden of wickert said she hopes par-be touched by this and see how ago.” she was in the eighth grade, cancer.” ticipating in relay for life helps much outreach there is and feel Burdell, a 1987 alumnus of she said. she had surgery to re-although sophomore mary people better relate to others’ themselves that ‘i should be do-the university, said his battle move the cancer a few months wickert participated in relay for encounters with cancer. nating, i myself should be start-with cancer was “a notre dame later and received a clean bill of life in high school, she said the “i hope people see that it’s ing a fundraiser.’” support story.” administrators health when she was a junior in cause became personal when not just another way to raise 
Fucillo said she hopes funds reached out to him, alumni high school. her father was diagnosed with money,” wickert said. “There’s for cancer research help medi-helped treat him and members Kennedy, whose mother also stage-four pancreatic cancer in an emotional effect that it has cal teams more effectively iden-of the community met at the has had cancer, said she has october. her dad’s cancer is ter-on people. … There’s a lot of ad­tify the disease in the future. grotto to pray the rosary for him, been on the planning com-minal, but also the less invasive vertisement like, ‘Join our team. 
“i know it killed [my grand-he said. mittee and a team captain for of two types of pancreatic can-come on, we have a goal, we mother] eventually, what she “it’s just been a notre dame relay for life every year since cer, wickert said. need to raise more money.’ had to go through, all these journey from day one, and her diagnosis. she said she re-“There’s not as much of a time “That’s not really the point. different treatments, when in i’m just very thankful and very alized the importance of good frame now, kind of thinking The point is that there is poten­the end it was cancer,” Fucillo blessed to be here,” Burdell said. patient services when her moth-‘ticking time bomb, how long is tially no more relay for life. The said. “so, i hope that we’re able “i’ve developed so many friends er underwent her own cancer he going to be around,’ but it’s end goal is to not have to have to diagnose people sooner and and just people who have helped treatment. still a harsh reality,” she said. this. That might be 100 years in correctly. me, it’s unbelievable to me.” “what a lot of the money [from “he has cancer that’s not going the future, but it’s got to start 
like Fucillo, marc Burdell, relay for life provides an op-relay for life] goes towards to be cured. … That’s why relay somewhere.” director of the alumni portunity to rally around people is patient services,” Kennedy for life is pretty important to association, is participating in currently fighting cancer, sur-said. “making the patients more me.” Contact Marisa Iati at relay for life for the first time. vivors and those who have lost comfortable, helping them with wickert was the highest miati@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



Awards 
conTinued From page 1 
previous recipients of the award include sr. regina coll, for­mer director of Field education in the theology department, who received the award in 1999, and sr. Jamie phelps, op, a visiting professor this year in the theology department, who received the award in 2010. 
The dominican colloquium on higher education awards the veritas award to dominican scholars who are dedicated to preaching and teaching truth at an institution that is not spon­sored by the order, hilkert said. 
“it reminded me of this tra­dition that i stand with the dominican order,” she said. “That has been at the very heart of my own vocation, as a theologian, a teacher, a writer, a preacher.” 
hilkert said one reason she has been so dedicated to the dominican order is the apprecia­tion for academics alongside faith. 
“another thing i love about the dominican order, that i think both of these awards represent, is that academic study, not just theology, is considered part of our spirituality,” hilkert said. “To be recognized both by the dominicans and my theological colleagues was also very support­ive to my own lifetime work as a student and a teacher of theology, and trying to mentor others in that field.” 
hilkert said her time as a dominican at notre dame, a holy cross-affiliated institution, has been marked by hospitality and a common understanding of the mission of the university. 
“They appreciate the fact that the dominican order has a long history of commitment to theo­logical scholarship and scholar­ship more broadly — the search for truth, wherever it can be found,” she said. “i think there is a great appreciation of the multiple treasures in the church.” 
 Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

severe spring storm packs ice 
Associated Press 
shuQualaK, miss. — a strong spring storm that socked the midwest with ice and heavy, wet snow made its way east, rak­ing the south with tornadoes Thursday, with three deaths blamed on the rough weather and thousands of people without power. 
mississippi emergency management agency spokes­man greg Flynn said Thursday one person died and several peo­ple were injured after a reported tornado struck Kemper county in the far-eastern part of the state. 
at contract Fabricators inc. in Kemper county, where authori­ties said one person died and an­other was injured, bent pieces of tin hung from the heavily dam­aged building. a tractor trailer was twisted and overturned. debris from the business was strewn through the woods across the street. 
Tabatha lott, a dispatcher in noxubee county, said there were “numerous reports of injuries” in the town of shuqualak, though it wasn’t immediately clear how many. Flynn also said there are reports of damaged buildings and many power outages. 
The T-shaped system first swept across the nation’s mid­section wednesday night and pummeled portions of missouri, where the national weather service said Thursday that an eF-2 tornado appears to have damaged dozens of homes in the st. louis suburb of hazelwood. That category of tornado general­ly packs winds of 113 to 157 mph. 
derek cody, an amateur storm chaser who works at east mississippi community college in scooba, just south of shuqualak (pronounced shug­a-lock), told The associated press that he drove north to the small town to try to catch a glimpse of the tornado. 
he said he got out of his car on u.s. 45 just as the twister was approaching the highway, only to be hit by a strong gust of wind moving into the storm that al­most knocked him over. 
“i kind of sat there and hoped it would cross right in front of me,” cody said. “it was just a black mass that moved across the road.” 
cody said that the cen­ter of shuqualak, an eastern mississippi town of 500 people, was unaffected. But he said a gas station and about 10 or so hous­es west of the town center were damaged. he said one house was “completely flattened” with de­bris blown across the road. 
as the system was moving through the southeast, high winds knocked over trees and power lines in rural west alabama and eastern mississippi. 

Pentagon motions to cut furlough days again 
required furloughs for navy ci-account to pay the civilians, the national security agency and of cutting the number to about 
Associated Press 

vilians. The officials spoke on department should do all it can the national reconnaissance seven. 
washingTon — senior condition of anonymity because to allow them to work. The fair-office. altogether the agencies congressionally mandated pentagon leaders are taking an-they weren’t authorized to dis-ness debate has also cut across have about 100,000 workers. automatic budget cuts ini­other look at sharply reducing cuss the issue publicly. federal agencies, with some on Thursday, when asked tially prompted the defense the number of unpaid furlough defense officials are reviewing defense workers complaining during a congressional hearing department to warn that the days that department civilians a range of options to determine that employees who do simi-about army depot furloughs, bulk of its 800,000 civilians will have to take in the coming how many furlough days they lar jobs for other government pentagon budget chief robert would be forced to take 22 un­months, suggesting they may be can cut, because recent legisla-departments are not subject to hale said he could not yet rule paid days off — one in each of able to cut the number from 14 to tion gives the pentagon more furloughs. out furloughs for the workers. he the last 22 weeks of the fiscal year as few as seven, defense officials flexibility in how it allocates There also has been debate acknowledged there is an effort ending sept. 30. when lawmak­said Thursday. the required spending cuts for about how many intelligence to minimize them. ers approved a new spending bill 
if the number is reduced, it this year. so far, pentagon lead-workers would be furloughed. “maybe we can get better, may-at the end of march they gave would be the second time the ers have insisted that civilians intelligence officials are argu-be we can’t,” he told the house the pentagon greater latitude in pentagon has cut the number across all the military services ing that a certain number of armed services committee. “we where to find the savings. of furlough days. it had initially be treated equally, suggesting it workers are needed in order to would like to see consistency and in an attempt to take some of been set at 22 days. would be unfair for workers in adequately monitor and protect fairness, because if we’re going the sting out of the more than 
The officials say no decision one service to face more unpaid the u.s. from national security to have to jump into this pool, $40 billion in across-the-board has been made and that they are days off that those in another threats. The u.s. intelligence we’d like to jump together. But no budget cuts, congress shifted not ruling out efforts to drop the service. community is made up of 16 dif-final decisions have been made additional money to operations furloughs entirely. The renewed others, including members ferent organizations, including on furloughs.” and maintenance accounts. talks come as navy leaders con-of congress, have argued that the cia, the defense intelligence defense officials conceded, over time, defense officials have tinue to push for eliminating if there is enough money in an agency and the highly secretive however, that there has been talk continued to study the legisla­
tion and figure out where they 

paid adverTisemenT 
can cut and where they can add money back to fill shortfalls and fund priorities. 
navy officials have argued that the furloughs — particularly for civilian workers at navy ship­yards and depots — will end up costing the service more than the salary cuts would save. 
navy officials said they believe they can find the $300 million needed to eliminate the fur­loughs for roughly 200,000 ci­vilians in the navy and marine corps, and that discussions with pentagon leaders on that propos­al continue. 
The officials said that accord­ing to a navy analysis, forcing shipyard and depot workers to take 14 days off would extend the amount of time it will take for ship maintenance. They said that would create a ripple ef­fect that will keep vessels at the shipyards longer and create a backlog. 
ultimately, the backlog would delay deployments, forcing other ships to remain at sea longer, in­creasing their costs. 

paid adverTisemenT 



internet leaders turn political 
Associated Press 
new yorK — Facebook ceo mark Zuckerberg and oth­er silicon valley leaders have formally launched a political group aimed at revamping immigration policy, boosting education and encouraging in­vestment in scientific research. 
Zuckerberg announced the formation of Fwd. us (pronounced “forward us”) in an op-ed article in The washington post late wednesday night. in it, he said the u.s. needs a new ap­proach to these issues if it is to get ahead economically. This includes offering a path to citi­zenship for the 11 million or so immigrants who now live in the u.s. illegally. 
“we have a strange immigra­tion policy for a nation of im­migrants,” Zuckerberg wrote. “and it’s a policy unfit for to­day’s world.” 
Zuckerberg, whose great-grandparents were im­migrants, said he wants “comprehensive immigration reform that begins with effec­tive border security, allows a path to citizenship and lets us attract the most talented and hardest-working people, no matter where they were born.” 
The move comes at an op­portune time. Zuckerberg’s goals echo a sweeping immi­gration bill that a bipartisan senate group is expected to roll out in the coming days. 
companies such as microsoft and google, along with new york city mayor michael Bloomberg, have been pushing to make it easier for highly skilled workers and entrepreneurs to work in the 
u.s. although Fwd.us supports increasing the number of visas available to these workers, its goals are broader. 

Zuckerberg also called for higher standards and account­ability in schools and increased focus on learning about sci­ence, technology, engineering and math. Today’s knowledge and ideas-based economy, the 28-year-old harvard dropout wrote, is very different from the economy of the 20th cen­tury that was based on natural resources, industrial machines and labor. 
Fwd.us, he said, was created to “to build the knowledge economy the united states needs to ensure more jobs, in­novation and investment.” 
also backing the group are tech leaders such as linkedin corp. ceo reid hoffman and venture capitalists John doerr and Jim Breyer, as well as ruchi sanghvi of dropbox, who was Facebook inc.’s first female en­gineer. Joe green, founder of causes.com, a social network for community organizing, serves as the group’s president and founder. 
major financial contributors include google inc. chairman eric schmidt, netflix inc. ceo reed hastings, yahoo inc. ceo marissa mayer, spaceX and Tesla motors ceo elon musk, Zynga inc. ceo mark pincus and former groupon inc. ceo andrew mason. 
Fwd.us declined to disclose how much money Zuckerberg and other supporters have con­tributed to the group. 
last year, Zuckerberg donat­ed 18 million Facebook shares, worth close to $500 million at the time, to a silicon valley charity with the aim of funding health and education issues. 
paid adverTisemenT 

High-class hermit arrested 

Associated Press 
rome, maine — he would meditate on an overturned bucket while staring up at the sky and knew all the eagles that nested nearby. 
But despite his 27 years of seclusion in the woods, christopher Knight also had a taste for the finer things in life, authorities said Thursday after dismantling the so-called north pond hermit’s lair. 
in the 47-year-old’s camp, they recovered goods that included high-end l.l. Bean sleeping bags and a new tent. 
he was wearing brand-new shoes and gloves, all believed stolen, when authorities ar­rested him after he tripped a surveillance sensor at a camp last week. They believe Knight may be responsible for more than 1,000 burglaries of food and other staples during the nearly three decades he hunkered down in the woods. 
game warden sgt. Terry hughes said Thursday that authorities believe Knight broke into cottages and stole quality products because they would last longer and help perpetuate his life of solitude. 
and the hermit apparently didn’t steal fridge leftovers either. 
“he was a fussy eater,” said dave proulx, a nearby cottage owner who tried to capture the hermit six or seven years ago after falling victim to more than a dozen break-ins. 
proulx, who said he came face to face with Knight while staking out his own cottage, said the hermit never made off with meat that wasn’t in its original packaging. 
on the rainy, cloudy night of their encounter, the hermit escaped by canoe after proulx threw on a floodlight and chased him to a dock, proulx said. 
authorities filled two pickup trucks on Thursday as they took apart Knight’s camp, later displaying what they were calling evidence for local folks to sort through to try to recover their stolen goods. 
There were several nintendo game Boys and a wristwatch, along with shov­els, rakes, coolers, cooking gear, a coffee pot and even toilet paper. 
authorities said Knight used logs on the ground as a makeshift commode, and at one point, attached an an­tenna to a treetop so he could get reception on his battery-powered Tv in his tarp-cov­ered camp. 
many locals said they were relieved by Knight’s ar­rest after enduring years of break-ins. Before the camp’s dismantling, some curious folks hiked about a mile into the woods with police to try to get a look at the hermit’s camp. 
among them was Frank Ten Broeck, a retired new Jersey police official who has a cot­tage nearby. 
“To me, this is mind-bog­gling. i just can’t believe this guy was here 27 years,” Ten Broeck said. “This is some of the most severe weather you can go through.” 
But the land’s owner dis­appointed them, deciding to let only authorities into the camp on Thursday. 
a corrections officer at Kennebec county Jail in augusta said Knight was refusing requests for interviews. 
he has applied for a court-appointed lawyer and hasn’t entered a plea to the burglary and theft charges stemming from the break-in at pine Tree camp, a facility for special needs people. 
authorities said they caught Knight with $283 in goods in his backpack after he fell into a trap set by hughes, who’s been trying to capture the elusive woodsman for years. 
in his police mug shot, Knight is clean-shaven, has short-cropped hair and is sporting a style of eyeglasses from the 1980s. 
it’s a different look than in his photo from the 1984 year­book from lawrence high school in Fairfield, maine. in it, Knight is wearing horn-rimmed glasses and has long, thick dark hair as he leans against a tree. 
The blurb accompany­ing the picture says Knight’s plans were to become a com­puter technician. 
But authorities said by the time he was about 19, he’d disappeared into the woods. 
authorities say Knight doesn’t show signs of mental illness and they’ve uncovered no other motive for his seclu­sion except that he wanted to be alone. 
Knight’s arrest came a little more than a week after the capture of a self-styled moun­tain man in utah who shared some of the same traits. For six years, Troy James Knapp ransacked cabins on national forest land for guns, food and high-end camping gear, au­thorities said. 
Knapp, a 45-year-old california parolee who went on the run in 2004, faces 29 burglary-related felony and misdemeanor charges in utah that could keep him in jail for life. 


contribute to the discussion 
chicago sports 
Peter Durbin 
news writer 

“oh no, here we go again.”  it’s a phrase any chicago sports fan knows. Throughout the city’s illustrious sports history, certain events, some seemingly an act of god, have brought these words to the lips of cubs, white sox, Blackhawks and Bears fans alike. 
The fact the city has survived the infamous steve Bartman, the Billy goat curse and a lack of a world series appearance since 1945 (and that’s only the cubs) leads me to claim chicago as the quintessential american sports city. 
although Boston used to lay claim to the most unlucky sports city, recent successes of the patriots, red sawx, celtics and Bruins makes me beg to differ. 
a little reference for non-chicagoans: in my 20 years, i am able to remember just one championship. The Blackhawks, riding a wave of young talent spearheaded by patrick Kane and Jonathan Toews, defeated the philadelphia Flyers to win the 2010 stanley cup. in the past 10 years, Boston sports teams have won a combined seven championships. 
my detractors will point to the six nBa championships the Bulls won in the 90s, to which i will reply, “it should have been a mini­mum eight-peat, Bob,” in my best Bill swirsky voice. yes, chicagoans were spoiled by the michael Jordan-led Bulls. The Bulls in recent seasons are finally returning to the same level of competitiveness, but these strides forward have produced no new championships. 
The beloved Bears, who have won exactly one championship in the super Bowl era, are topic of constant conversation. Tickets to a game at soldier Field may be the hottest ticket in town outside of “The Book of mormon.” how many other cities possess such a rabid football fan base that their team could not win a championship in 50 years and still sell out every game? 
what other city could still embrace a team that hasn’t won anything since william howard Taft was the president?  wrigley Field is an essential tourist spot for anyone visiting the city.  although it’s become more of a social event in the bleachers for twenty-somethings looking to let their hair down, there is still a very large contingent of diehard cubs fans that bleed cubby blue. only recently have these fans allowed their distaste with the new own­ership and a terrible product on the field reflect on their attendance at games. 
chicago embraces the name “The second city.” our sports teams are rightfully blue collar to reflect their fan base. The sense of camaraderie between chicago sports fans is unparalleled.  it stems from a century-old feel­ing of anguish, followed by infinite optimism every april, september and october.  These teams can break the city’s collective heart, but we keep on coming back.  we can forget the feeling of “oh no, here we go again” better than any other city’s fans.  Because of this collective “amnesia,” chicago is the american sports city. 
Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 
as this week’s controversy over carter Boyd’s column (“somewhere over the rainbow,” april 9) and mark gianfalla’s guest column (“True matrimonial equality,” april 9) demonstrated, notre dame students have strong opinions about the issues the authors raised about the gay marriage debate. comments on social media and in letters to the editor sprung up quickly to address Boyd’s and gianfalla’s com­ments. The two outlets combined to create yesterday’s letter (“spread the love. spread the equality,” april 11), which notre dame students were asked by its creators to sign through a Facebook event. 
“we cannot all write viewpoints about why we support marriage equality,” the letter stated. “we should not have to defend and fight for equality of love.” 
hundreds of you signed this letter. But sometimes, strength in numbers isn’t enough to refute an argument. sometimes, our signa­tures on a list aren’t enough to persuade someone we deserve to be heard. in such cases, writing to defend something we believe in is the only way to truly affect change. 
at its core, The observer’s viewpoint section tries to provide notre dame with an open platform for that change. viewpoint strives to lend a voice to the community and to foster constructive discussion of events both on campus and in the wider world. The fundamen­tal goal of the section is to allow students to articulate their diverse and sometimes conflicting views by providing a venue for their expression. 
First and foremost, the viewpoint section is a mouthpiece of the student body. The columns and letters you see in the viewpoint pages are the work of your colleagues, classmates and friends. members of The observer do not contribute to letters to the editor and columns, or allow personal opinion to dictate which submis­sions make it to publication. viewpoint has and will continue to be a forum for controversial or unpopular opinions, provided a certain level of respect is maintained. while this means some groups may disagree with certain columns, these conflicts still have a silver lin­ing. drawing potentially upsetting opinions into the open allows others to address them in a constructive forum and promotes de­bate that potentially can help us all either to reconsider our views or strengthen our current convictions.  But, it’s up to you to keep that forum constructive. 
nowadays, when many students read columns they find foolish or misinformed, perhaps while enjoying a gourmet dining hall meal, they only scoff. labels are tossed around in the column’s wake: stupid, bigot, ignorant or self-righteous, to name a few. But what is accomplished by leaving the offending paper in a puddle of spilled chocolate milk and stale dining hall pasta? 
it takes far more courage to voice an opinion and publicly defend it than to mutter criticisms under our breath. if we don’t agree with an opinion, then we should take a leap and put ourselves out there as well. write a response. we shouldn’t internalize feelings. we need to let the notre dame community know if we agree or disagree with an issue. we must foster a constructive dialogue by respecting that many issues are not black and white, that they are really defined in shades of gray. we should realize that all arguments have two sides, and that our constitution protects the right for your ideological op­posite to voice his thoughts just as much as it allows you to speak your mind. 
it may be easier to remain detached from controversial issues. it may be easier to simply voice thoughts and concerns while protect­ed by anonymous forums like nd confessions or in The observer website’s online comments. however, viewpoint needs you. The notre dame community needs you. get off your futon, fire up your laptop and start writing. if you take a risk and put yourself out there, viewpoint, and the notre dame community, will embrace your contribution, not sweep it under the rug. That’s what this section is for: putting your voice in the hands of the notre dame community. 
so, if you want to contribute, if you want to direct the argument in a constructive and effective way, here’s what you do: go to ndsmcob­server.com and click on “write a letter to the editor.” or, better yet, send a full column to obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
To paraphrase a quote often misattributed to voltaire, The observer’s viewpoint section may not wholeheartedly agree with what you have to say, but it will always defend your right to say it. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
an apology for the understanding of traditional marriage 
This is an “apology” in two ways. The first one, is that i sincerely wish to apologize to all members of the notre dame family who found the piece “somewhere over the rainbow” to be offensive, especially those of the lgBTQ community. while i believe mr. Boyd wrote it with the best of intentions, his arguments display a lack of understanding for the complexity of the issue and a lack of compassion for our brother and sisters in christ who have same-sex attractions. 
secondly, i wish to give a more sympathetic and sincere “apol­ogy” (a formal justification) for the catholic understanding of marriage in response to mr. Boyd’s article. First of all, as christians, we must understand that homosexuality is more complex than simply being “sinful.” sexual orientation means more than simply who we want to have sex with, but rather is the lens through which we interact with each other. Therefore, to say to someone “the way you interact with other people is wrong, and although it is some­thing you can’t change, you are sinful because of it!” is a terribly uncompassionate thing to say to someone who is really struggling (in one way or another) to understand his or her sexuality. it is not sinful or wrong to have same-sex attractions, but it is considered sinful by the catholic church to act upon those attractions. 
as mr. Boyd rather bluntly added, the reason why the church is against homosexual intercourse is because it is not procreative (the same reason it is against birth control and masturbation, but for brevity’s sake, let’s deal with one issue at a time). as someone who has one of those cross profile pictures, i believe that in order to be a full expression of love, the sexual act must have the opportunity to be procreative. when god created the world, he did so not because of some rational thesis on why he needed creation or why he need­ed us, but purely out of love. Through god’s love (the same love expressed on the cross similar to the one on many people’s profile pictures) all the world came into being, and in the sexual act we are called to reflect that love to its fullest. Therefore, when two people offer themselves to each other, in love, fully and completely, it must be open to this participation in god’s creative act. 
i realize this does not address the issue of “same-sex marriage” and its legality in the united states. however, since i do not have the legal background to properly defend that, and since mr. Boyd hardly proposes any legitimate arguments for why it should remain illegal, i will leave this issue for someone more apt than i to solve. 
while i cannot comprehend the struggles the lgBTQ communi­ty has gone through, i recognize it cannot be easy having same-sex attractions, whether it be condemnation from loved ones or being socially marginalized because of how you interact with others. what is probably hardest to hear is when someone says you do not deserve the infinite love of god because of your sexuality. But let me be the first to say that it is not so. you are more than your sexu­ality. you are a child of god who loves you so much that, through your parents, he called you into existence. christ loves each of us because we are all his children, just as he loved peter even after peter denied him three times. But christ also called peter to repen­tance and to a deeper, more perfect love than peter could have ever anticipated. so too, the church calls all of its people to repentance and to continue to enter more deeply in the love in which we were created and through which we are saved. 
For those of you who have same-sex attractions, for more reasons than not, you are stronger than i am. For those of you who have decided that, while having same-sex attractions, to live out your sexuality according to god’s will in purity and chastity — you are truly the saints of the modern day. i cannot comprehend the weight of the cross you bear and i thank you for your witness to those of us who struggle in keeping our sexuality (homo or hetero) pure and chaste. i am praying with you and for you, and i would consider myself very fortunate if you would do the same for me. 
god Bless. 
Samuel Carlson 
senior siegfried hall april 11 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Thoughts on the minimum wage 
Connor Roth 
Think. it’s not illegal yet 

on Feb. 12th, in his state of the union address, president obama discussed a wide variety of issues — arguing for gun control measures, elaborating on corpo­rate profits and mentioning the affordable healthcare act among other things. But, one other specific issue i’d like to consider further is the president’s call to raise the minimum wage up to $9 at the federal level. in his address, obama stated rais­ing the minimum wage “would raise the incomes of millions of working families” and continued to offer other arguments in support of his proposition. while society would agree with the president that no person should be marginalized or left in poverty without help, we should step back from the emotional charge of his speech and consider whether a federally mandat­ed minimum wage would be an effective way to help those who need it the most. 
minimum wage is a misnomer. The true “minimum wage” is zero dollars; you don’t get paid if you don’t have a job. instead of saying the federal minimum wage is $7.25, we should be saying we aren’t allowed to earn a wage between $.01 and $7.24 dollars. as someone who believes in the freedom to spend your time as you see fit (and receive compensation in accordance with a contract), the constitutionality of a minimum wage law appears to be more controversial than one may initially believe. sadly, if i value my labor at $6 an hour and a business values my time at that same amount, i guess i’m just out of luck. 
now, since it doesn’t look like the mini­mum wage is going to be declared uncon­stitutional any time soon, we can start discussing its effectiveness and whether or not raising it to $9/hour would actually achieve the goal it was designed to accom­plish: helping the poor. numerous studies have been conducted by economists on both sides of the argument, but in one ar­ticle produced in the wall street Journal on Jan. 10, 2013, author Jason riley provided data which found that less than 20 percent of people being paid minimum wage live below the poverty line — the majority of people affected by the minimum wage are young people who are entering the workforce for the first time. it appears that raising the minimum wage would create the most displacement in employment for individuals between the ages of 16-24 — and make it harder for those who are try­ing to gain entry-level experience to find and keep a job, instead of accomplishing the intended goal of helping low-income families. 
it appears many of those in favor of in­creasing the minimum wage would argue that the positive effects the increase would have on the poor would outweigh the deadweight loss the rest of society faces. it just seems to me there could be programs or charities that could be better organized and more effective at targeting the poor and allocating resources to them, rather than just increasing the federal minimum wage across the spectrum. 
consider this: if someone has a heart attack, a physician would not simply focus on unclogging the blocked artery — the doctor would also attempt to remedy the long-term problem at hand (e.g. high blood pressure). To compare this anecdote to the economy, we should also focus on why we have inflation, which leads people to demand higher wages. one might look to “Qe infinity,” the devaluation of our fiat currency, and the special treatment top corporations receive from government. issues with prices will arise too, especially with those companies who do not face “sticky prices” and provide goods with inelastic demand (like medical supplies or other stuff people need to purchase). These companies can simply charge more for their goods in response to the mini­mum wage hike. Those who may defend the sentiment shared by president obama and elizabeth warren (among others) may point to costco and starbucks, whom have already called for an increase in the minimum wage. These two Fortune 500 companies reason that more money in the hands of their workers will induce more spending, allowing families to be better off. But if the data Jason riley offered is accurate, very few people affected by the wage increase will have families to take care of, based on the argument that young people are most impacted by this type of legislation. 
also, nobody bothered to mention that employees of these companies are already paid above minimum wage and the in­crease would knockout smaller businesses costco and starbucks currently compete with in the market. while these sentiments appear noble at first glance, there may also be deeper lying motives that some try to sweep under the rug. 
with all of these calls for an increase in the federal minimum wage, we as a society need to step back and look at the costs and benefits this motion would forge. perhaps raising the minimum wage to $9 would make those below the poverty line better off, but maybe there are better options out there to specifically target that socio­economic group and do so even more ef­ficiently than a minimum wage increase. i am a strong believer in charity and volun­tary action among individuals, but for now, it looks like we’ll just have to wait and see what happens in washington in the future. 
Connor Roth is a sophomore Economics major and Constitutional Studies minor and can be contacted at croth1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
not for nd confessions 
Joel Kolb 
The provocateur 

“secrets, secrets are no fun, secrets, secrets hurt someone.”  For those of you who recognize this quote, congratulations. For those who don’t, it is spoken by a stripper in the Benjamin Franklin episode of The office, back when Jim and pam were Jim and pam. as michael scott reflects on the happenings of the day, he notes the irony which comes from the female dancer teaching the most profound life lesson of the day. it is only human to want to hear others’ secrets, but continuing to keep secrets is good for no one. 
no doubt within the past month you or someone you know has looked at or possibly even liked the Facebook page nd confessions. when i first found out about the page, i spent at least a half an hour reading secrets shared by my fellow notre dame students. some of the so-called “confessions” are quite humorous, such one marveling at their recent weight loss despite a propen­sity towards drinking and laziness.  Besides posts which attempt sensationalism and are almost certainly un­true, many people around campus have felt compelled to share something deep and meaningful. 
old news doesn’t get better with age.  This idiom lies at the heart of a student’s motivation to make a true and most of the time alarming confession on this Facebook page. when something goes wrong, it is at first hu­man nature to cover it up.  it is almost easier to ignore a bad experience and move on like it never happened. Keeping something bottled up, however, only leads to feeling worse about the previous negative experience. eventually, you feel the need to let out the secret for the world to know. none of this is exactly groundbreaking news to anyone, but what disturbs me is what these confessions imply about our student body. 
For one, how many people are there on campus who do not feel comfortable enough to talk to a single person about their deepest concerns? discounting the mildly humorous or completely untrue confessions, there seems to be an unhealthy amount of people who have concluded there is nowhere else to turn besides the internet. while initially it seems someone sharing a hardship in their life would help ease that person’s load, i believe a confession on nd confessions provides little to no benefits. although people may be comforting you or showing compassion, the fact that it is anonymous and over the internet takes out the human part of consoling someone — namely, seeing the look on someone’s face, the body language of that person, the inflections in their voice and physically being there to comfort  someone. 
as for the rest of the confessions, they seem bet­ter suited for an actual confessional than a Facebook page. sexually related posts are ubiquitous in most nd confessions, and in this sense nd confessions is no more than a gossip column. i’m not sure exactly why people feel the need to share their sexual stories, other than to try to one up each other. i recently read two posts by incoming freshman for next year. Truthfully, i’m embarrassed that this is the impression we’re giv­ing some of the incoming freshman about our lady’s university. 
overall, i’m not sure exactly what the ramifica­tions of such a site will have on the student body.  nd confessions might be popular and entertaining at first, but after a short time all the shocking and deep confes­sions might blend together, in which case the people who actually need help only become more dejected and lost then when they made their confession in the first place. 
if you have not yet checked out the Facebook page, i would recommend doing so, if for no other reason than to see what i’m talking about and make conclusions of your own.  For those of you who actually would like to make a confession, rather than logging onto Facebook i would suggest heading over to the Basilica any weekday to receive real relief from your burdens. 
Joel Kolb lives in St. Edward’s Hall and is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. He can be reached at jkolb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Let’s talk about love 
i’ve heard arguments that the logical leaps made in mr. Boyd’s col­umn (“somewhere over the rainbow,” apr. 10) render it unworthy of a response. But the underlying attitudes are real and corrosive, and should be addressed. 
There’s a limit on how much you can deride, demean and insult someone and still claim to love them. when you compare someone’s sexual attraction to and love for people of the same sex to acts of evil that deliberately harm, destroy, or end life (rape, murder, terrorism), you perpetuate hate. when you deny someone’s ability to love fully and deeply because biology prevents them from creating children with the person they love, you deny an intrinsic part of their humanity. when you belittle their love by calling the symbol of their movement proof of their inferiority, you insult them. when you call their desire for truly equal treatment under the law a “fad,” you spit on the memory of our gay and lesbian friends and forebears who have been excluded, maimed, and murdered simply for wanting to be with the wrong per­son. is that really love? 
mr. Boyd, i’d like to offer a challenge. Just talk to a gay or lesbian person about it. i guarantee you know at least one person from your classes, in your dorm, heck, in your pew. approach him or her with an open heart and an open mind, and just listen. watch a young man’s face light up when he talks about his boyfriend of two years. hear the longing when a woman talks about her girlfriend who’s study­ing abroad. Talk to an older couple about the dedication it took to get through the tough times and the joy of the good ones. listen for the pain engendered by years of being told that they’re incomplete, wrong and disordered. 
of course, i’m not sure how many of our homosexual comrades will really want to talk to you after you’ve degraded and denied them, so i’m not volunteering anyone. But my hope is someone would be will­ing to take the time to show you what real love means. 
Athena Hughes 
senior ryan hall april 10 










By EMILIE TERHAAR 
scene writer 

saturday night, washington hall, 8:00p.m. “pitch perfect” meets “whose line is it anyway?”.  last year, over 250 people attended the part improv, part a cappella collabo­ration show between notre dame’s humor artists and a cappella group halftime.  This year, twice as long has been spent planning the perfor­mance.  more time was spent writ­ing the script, which includes twice as many songs, twice as many cross­overs of actors taking on singing roles, singers performing improvi­sational scenes and everyone danc­ing.  There has been over a week of rehearsals putting the two hour show together. 
one might wonder how it is possible to plan and rehearse for an improvi­sational musical performance.  how is something improvised if there is a script and rehearsals?  halftime club member dagny nagengast explains “the script holds the scenes together, it lets us know who is supposed to be on stage, and for how long.”  The script tells a broad story about an im­prov group and an a cappella group working with each other.  one improv actor, alec vanthournout, and an a cappella performer, grace Foster, are at odds with each other, trying to break up the collaboration of the groups.  alec, because he hates sing­ing; grace, because she hates humor. a mysterious cloaked figure, ra’him Khan, guides the plot forward from the shady corners and dark depths of the stage. 
within this larger frame of a story, individual scenes allow for either a song by halftime, a collaborative song by halftime and some of the humor artists together, or some improv games (some scenes may even have all three!).  improv games 


                  Andrew Gastelum  
editor in chief 

i like weird music. weird keeps things interesting. so if you aren’t prepared for some weird, don’t listen to James Blake. 
Blake joins the crew of musicians who have become more famous than their ath­lete counterparts with the same name (Jack Johnson, Jim Jones). But with the per­formance he has put on in his past two albums, weird might just become the new normal. 
with his sophomore re­lease “overgrown,” Blake matures and settles down, while breaking barriers with his introspective lyrics and hypnotizing electronic pro­duction. it’s hard to fit Blake into a category, because the london producer covers ev­erything from r&B to low-fi to being unfairly pushed into the post-dubstep niche. 
But Blake croons, cries and harmonizes with them typically last three to five minutes, and are entirely unscripted, un-re­hearsed venues for silliness. 
The script for the show was writ­ten by several of the humor artists: alec vanthournout, Brian “Brodgers” rodgers, stephen “paco” elser, and saad Khan. vanthournout said the script takes the actual humor artists and halftime members, and creates caricatures exaggerating their best, worst and funniest features. while the show will still be funny for any­one who goes attends, it should be even funnier for people who know members of the humor artists or halftime. 
This performance promises to be unlike any other event at notre dame.  Brian rodgers says how they aimed to create a collaboration that showcased different forms of talent in a way other student performances are unable to.  The Keenan revue is a sketch comedy.  we have student stand up comics.  we have the humor artist’s regular improv shows.  notre dame has various choirs and a cap­pella groups.  we have bands.  we have the student players and other drama clubs.  There are dance teams, dance collectives and dance troops. 
But this show is entirely different. it will have humor, improv, drama, scripted acting, comedians singing, singers being comical and everyone will dance.  you will laugh, you will cry, you will have a really, really good time. 
if you are a fan of “glee,” or marx Brothers’ movies, musicals, or com­edy, or if you enjoy laughing or fun, then come see the show!  Tickets will be available today and tomorrow at the box office in washington hall for $2, and will continue to be sold until the show starts. 
Contact Emilie Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 
best of them, sometimes all on one song. Blake’s a one-man band, utilizing samples of his voice and adding elec­tronic drums and high-hats to add to the mystique of his unique sound. 
For example, the best song of the album, “retrograde,” has only four minor ele­ments: an electronic clap, lyrics, buzzing synths and Blake’s hum which serves as the baseline. it’s a haunt­ing revelation of the self and what’s left of it after losing a significant piece. 
The same goes for the spooky “Take a Fall for me,” featuring the low-key spo­ken-word-type rap of wu-Tang clan’s rZa. Famed producer Brian eno even hops on a track, “digital lion.” 

The album’s vibe is cer­
“Overgrown” 

tainly mellow, but with a few twists it’s good for a rainy 
Artist: James Blake 

day or just a small treasure 
Record Label: Republic Records 

in the quest for unique music you won’t hear from anyone 
Genre:  Electronic, Neo-Soul 

else. 





SPORTS AUTHORITY MLB BASEBALL 
Top 10, not amateur hour 
Teixeira could be swinging for Yankees 

Andrew Gastelum 
editor in chief 
This is one of those ideas that have been stewing for a long time. or i’m just a writer in search of a topic. 
But i could go ahead and write about soccer. after all, it ends wars. But after champions league and manchester united turned the english premier league into a snoozefest like a day game at petco park, there’s not much left. 
or i could do the typi­cal “spring is here, i love baseball and sun dresses” shtick. sadly, it is prob­ably a few days too late to talk about the most en­tertaining ncaa national championship game in my lifetime and the celebra­tion cannons that made rick pitino hit the deck. and, yes, the masters are this weekend, but i refuse to talk about Tiger until he cops a green jacket from rory a la shooter mcgavin in “happy gilmore.” 
so here goes the univer­sal idea that is sure to get me no hate mail (looking at you clippers “fans”). it’s about sportscenter, but this is no cop-out. 
i consider myself a pretty green person — like notre dame in the Big east basketball tourna­ment —and i try to save electricity as much as i can like the superdome dur­ing the super Bowl. But sportscenter is where i break that rule like i’m The game or Busta rhymes. it’s always the first thing i turn on in the morning and the last thing i do before going to sleep. it’s on when no one is in the room, when i’m in class. 
it’s something i take se­riously because it keeps me in the loop in a world where i can’t afford to miss a day. in high school, i would wake up at 5 a.m. so i could get in my hour-long fix before heading to class. 
so, that’s why i have a bone to pick with you, sportscenter. The ad­age “saving the best for last” actually applies to sportscenter because of the precious Top 10. seeing the Top 10 pop up on the sidebar keeps me through watching the connecticut sun vs. indiana Fever and from switching to netflix for 22 minutes of “parks and recreation.” even those annoying “coming up next: sportscenter Top 10” teases during the first commercial break keep me from switching to espn 2 for some pBa Bowling. 
But really, sportscenter, you’ve gone too far. That’s right, “who do you think you are? i am.” 
The past few weeks, i’ve had it up to here (pretend i’m hasheem Thabeet reaching to grab something off the top shelf) with the order in the Top 10. 
i don’t want to see little Jimmy making a half-court shot with his eyes closed and one shoe untied in a ymca game between the elkhart 76ers and the muncie heat. as a matter of fact, i don’t even want to see a division iii version of Blake griffin jumping over two guys and throw­ing down an east Bay Funk while eating a salami sandwich. 
what i want to see is leBron James run the full length of the court to swat a shot off the backboard and then do the soulja Boy afterward. i want to see mike Trout jump over the wall and into the bullpen while he makes a catch and gets carded by an off-duty police officer. 
i just want to see Top 10 plays from Top 10 leagues and players. 
Then, there’s the high­light of my week: the not Top 10. 
if you have any dignity, sportscenter, show carlos Boozer losing his as he cup-checks a referee aFv­style, not some slip-up in my sister’s volleyball game that could end up on “america’s Funniest home videos.” 
in fact, that’s all i want to see. i want to see all our favorite athletes that run the world like its mount olympus mess up. Just the fact that it’s Jim larranaga doing a remix of the ali shuffle or nick young for­getting to take the ball with him on a layup makes everything better. 
i want to see all that, along with mark sanchez still being shown as the top not Top 10 play with his Thanksgiving fumble. 
so, yes, i know “This is sportscenter,” but this is my Top 10 and i want it back. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Associated Press 
mark Teixeira isn’t dreading his next doctor’s visit. he’s ac­tually excited about it. 
new york’s star first base­man said he expects to be cleared to begin swinging a bat as early as Friday in his re­covery from a wrist injury that will sideline him for the first month of the season. Teixeira has been on the disabled list since march 31 with a torn sheath in his right wrist. 
when the yankees return to new york on Friday, Teixeira will be examined by dr. melvin rosenwasser, the team’s hand and wrist specialist, at yankee stadium before the series opener against Baltimore. 
“i’m confident the doctor will let me take swings tomor­row,” Teixeira said Thursday in new york’s clubhouse be­fore the yankees had the fi­nale of their rain-shortened series against the indians postponed. “i feel great and i’m getting better every day. There’s no pain. i could not be happier with the progress. The plan is to take Bp for a week — it could make my wrist sore as part of the process — but that is a definite milestone.” 
it’s more encouraging news for the yankees, who have got­ten positive reports this week on all-stars derek Jeter and curtis granderson. 
Jeter has resumed on-field hitting at the team’s training complex in Tampa, Fla., after being shut down last month by soreness in the left ankle he broke in the playoffs last october. granderson, who broke his right forearm when he was hit by a pitch during spring training, was able to remove a stabilizing brace on Thursday and throw. 
“That’s big,” yankees manager Joe girardi said of granderson. “That means the bone has healed and it’s just the rehab process and getting him to where he can play in some games and 

FOR SALE 
18145 Crownhill In Georgetown near ND. $76,900. 2-story condo, large master, loft den can be converted to 2nd bdrm. Fireplace, washer/dryer, alarm system, 1-car garage w/open­er. Pristine condition. Open house 10 -12 Sat &amp; Sun. 574-532-5961. 
FOR RENT 
2BR, 2BA, 2 car garage. Privacy fence. 424 Eddy St. Call Michiana 

getting him back here. it’s real encouraging.” 
granderson posted a photo of his wrist on his Facebook page. “Brace is finally off for non-baseball activities,” he wrote. “another step closer!” 
girardi has been watching videotape of Jeter’s workouts and said he’s gotten favorable reports. 
“i think he’s oK,” girardi said when asked for the lat­est on the yankees’ captain. “i didn’t get any alarming news.” 
The yankees and indians were washed out two straight days, cutting a four-game se­ries down to two. no makeup date was announced, but both teams have a common open date on may 13, when they will likely play a doubleheader. 
“everybody was looking at the radar for a window,” said phil hughes, who had his second start of the season postponed. 
hughes will not pitch un­til Tuesday against arizona as girardi will stick with his scheduled starters — cc sabathia, hiroki Kuroda and andy pettitte — over the next three days. after coming to the ballpark on Thursday to work out, the trio returned to new york ahead of their teammates. 
Teixeira, who turned 33 on Thursday, said his rehabilita­tion program is on schedule. when his injury was diag­nosed march 6, the yankees estimated he would need at least eight weeks to recover. if he receives the go-ahead from rosenwasser, Teixeira expects to spend new york’s six-game, seven-day homestand work­ing his way from dry swings to hitting with a fungo bat and then soft tosses. 
“hopefully, the first day we’re in Toronto (april 19), i’ll take Bp on the field with the team,” said Teixeira, who has 338 career home runs. 
girardi was excited to hear the five-time gold glove win­ner was moving toward a re­turn to new york’s lineup. 
“so far, so good,” he said. “everything has been positive in his rehab. The true steps are going to be in the swinging part. he’s been strengthening it and he was in that brace for a while but everything has been encouraging so far.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Rentals LLC 574-993-RENT (7368) 1.A paper cannot be folded more than 9 times. 
PERSONAL 
2. More calories are wasted by sleeping than sitting and watching tv. 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has 3. The first object with a number many resources in place to assist scanning label is the chewing gum. you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, 4.The Wright Brothers’ first flying please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or journey is shorter than a Boeing 747 Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more airplane’s wings. information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 


MLB 

Cubs errors open door for Giants comeback 
Associated Press 
chicago — starlin castro was too quick in the field while scott Feldman was too slow. 
partly because of those problems on defense Thursday, the chicago cubs gave away a five-run lead in a 7-6 loss to the san Francisco giants. 
with runners on first and third and two outs in the fourth inning, giants pitcher ryan vogelsong hit a grounder to shortstop. castro rushed the play and botched it, al­lowing san Francisco to score its first run. 
Feldman (0-2) was slow to cover first base on angel pagan’s chop­per to the right side, handing the giants another run on pagan’s in­field single. Brandon crawford was hit by a pitch, loading the bases, and pablo sandoval’s two-run dou­ble cut it to 5-4. 
Feldman allowed a single to Brandon Belt and walked gregor Blanco after getting one out in the fifth. hisanori Takahashi relieved and nick noonan singled to load the bases. vogelsong walked to force in a run and pagan put the giants ahead with a sacrifice fly. crawford then singled in a run to make it 7-5. 
The defensive miscues clearly annoyed cubs manager dale sveum, whose team gave up four unearned runs and three hits to noonan, the no. 8 batter in the lineup. in addition to Takahashi walking the opposing pitcher with the bases loaded, Feldman twice struggled to cover first base. 
“yeah, you spend hours and hours on it for 45 days of spring training and then to have the lapses in games when it counts,” sveum said. “it costs you games, it costs you pitches, it costs you not being able to go five innings.” 
handed a 5-0 cushion after three innings, Feldman couldn’t hold the lead against the world series champions and lost his sec­ond straight decision to start the season. he gave up six runs, two earned, and seven hits in 4 1-3 in­nings. he walked three and struck out three. 
“The offense came out and threw five up there quick for me and i would have loved to keep go­ing and put some zeros up there,” Feldman said. “But i ran into some trouble there in that one inning and threw too many pitches and they were able to claw a few across.” 
castro’s error was his third in nine games, and he said he was too aggressive in charging a routine grounder with the pitcher running. 

“i feel really bad because that’s one of the plays you have to make. it’s a routine play and it’s the pitch­er running,” castro said. “Those things can’t happen because you have to know the pitcher’s running, you have to be ready to wait for the ball and throw.” 
vogelsong (1-1) yielded eight hits and five runs, four earned, in the first three innings before retiring his final 10 batters on a foggy and damp, 40-degree day. meanwhile, the giants rallied to win their fourth in a row. 
looking to win consecutive games for the first time this sea­son, the cubs (3-6) started building their lead early. 
after scoring once in the sec­ond, they added four in the third. anthony rizzo hit a two-run hom­er and Brent lillibridge snapped an 0-for-17 start to the season with a two-run single that made it 5-0. 
But that was it for the cubs until the eighth when they tried to rally against the giants’ bullpen. 
alfonso soriano led off with a double and moved to third on an infield single by nate schierholtz. santiago casilla relieved Jeremy affeldt and induced a run-scor­ing double play from welington 
paid adverTisemenT 

castillo. luis valbuena doubled to deep center but casilla got out of the inning by striking out pinch-hitter steve clevenger. 
sergio romo earned his sixth save this season for the giants (7-3) by pitching a scoreless ninth de­spite allowing a one-out double to david deJesus. romo finished the game by striking out castro and rizzo. 
giants manager Bruce Bochy saluted his players for coming back from a five-run deficit de­spite traveling overnight from san Francisco. 
“it’s easy to lay down at that point, but they fought back hard and that’s a great comeback for us,” he said. “i tip my cap to these guys because they kept grinding and they got it done.” 
The big rally was the second in three games for san Francisco, which came back from a four-run deficit Tuesday to beat colorado. 
“This team’s got a lot of fight. we try to go out and win every game,” romo said. “we believe we can win every game, under­standing that it’s hard to do, but we try. Today was just a good ex­ample of pulling for each other and that never-say-die attitude.” 




The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
GOLF 



Garcia leads Masters after Round One 

AP 

Adam Scott of Australia, left, Angel Cabrera of Argentina, middle, and Sergio Garcia of Spain, right,  walk across the Nelson Bridge during the first round of the Masters on Thursday, in Augusta, Ga. Garcia is seeking his first ever major title and is currently tied for the top spot with a 6-under 66 after the first round. 
Associated Press 
augusTa, ga. — sergio garcia is still chasing that first major title. 
it never figured to come at augusta national. 
But there he was Thursday, af­ter a bogey-free opening round, sharing the top spot on the lead­erboard at the masters. 
“obviously, this is not my most favorite place,” garcia said, trying to be diplomatic. “But we try to enjoy it as much as we can every time we come here. sometimes it comes out better than others. Today was one of those good days. let’s en­joy it while it lasts.” 
garcia’s 6-under 66 tied him with aussie marc leishman, on a cloudy day that was made for going low. There wasn’t much wind until late in the afternoon, when a storm front approached augusta. There wasn’t a blister­ing sun to bake out the greens, which were receptive to accu­rate shots. 
The spaniard took advantage, rekindling memories of the teen phenom known as “el nino,” who seemed certain to win nu­merous major titles after he battled with woods at the 1999 pga championship, losing by a single stroke. 
garcia has challenged in other majors, but rarely at the masters — a course that doesn’t seem to fit his style or shaky put­ter. in 14 previous appearances at augusta national, he has fin­ished in the top 10 only twice. 
last year, after a dismal third round took him out of conten­tion, he bluntly conceded that he didn’t think he was capable of winning a major. 
obviously, he feels different now — though there’s still some trepidation in his voice about what’s still to come. 
“every time i tee off in a tour­nament, the goal is to play the best i can and have a chance at winning. That doesn’t change this week,” garcia said. “Today was a nice day, one of those days you really enjoy. hopefully i’ll have three more of those and we’ll see what happens on sunday night.” 
with all eyes on Tiger woods, the overwhelming favor­ite, plenty of others stood out amid the azaleas and towering georgia pines. 
There was leishman, who had played two whole rounds at augusta national. 
There was david lynn, a masters rookie who was just two strokes back. 
lynn was the early clubhouse leader, then leishman surged to the front with four straight birdies on the back side starting at no. 13. The australian sure didn’t play like someone who had missed the cut in his only other masters appearance, in 2010. 

“The first time i was here,” leishman recalled, “i was like a bit of a deer in headlights, i guess. i found myself looking around a little bit too much and not concentrating on getting the ball in the hole.” 
he was hardly on a roll com­ing into augusta, having missed the cut in his two previous pga Tour events. But it all came to­gether, for one day at least. 
“To be sitting here is pretty cool,” leishman said. “But it’s only Thursday afternoon, so a lot of golf to play.” 
no australian has ever won the masters. 
lynn, a runner-up to rory mcilroy in last year’s pga championship, birdied four of five holes around the turn and rolled in a testy 15-foot putt at the final hole to save par. 
“it’s about playing the per­centages,” the englishman said. “when i was on the ninth, i turned to my caddie and said, ‘we’re leading the masters.’ he just looked at me and smiled. i told him, ‘i’d rather be leading it sunday afternoon.’ But it’s not a bad thing to see your name up there leading the masters. That’s always something i can look back on.” 
lynn moved from the european to the american tour this year, a change that seems to have rejuvenated his passion for the game. 
“it’s given me a second wind,” lynn said. “everything is new. i’m going to different places ev­ery week, different courses. it’s like i’ve started my career again almost.” 
dustin Johnson was one shot off the lead after a 67. lynn was joined at 68 by a group that in­cluded rickie Fowler, who went on the wildest ride of the day 
— a 4-under score despite two double-bogeys. 
Jamie donaldson turned in the shot of the day, acing the 180-yard sixth for the 24th hole­in-one in masters history. he is only the fifth player to make a 1 at the hole known as Juniper, with its towering tee box and a green at the bottom of the hill. donaldson was the first to do it since chris dimarco in 2004. 
woods was still the favorite after opening with a 70. 
But it appears he’ll have a lot of competition. 
“i felt like i putted well today,” said woods, whose only lower opening-round score at augusta was a 68 in 2010. “we’ve got a long way to go. i’ve just got to out there and play shot for shot. The golf course is going to change dramatically. you’ve just got to make adjustments.” 
woods has already won three times this year and reclaimed his no. 1 spot in the world rankings. But he hasn’t cap­tured a major since 2008, and it’s been eight long years since he claimed his fourth green jacket at augusta. he is still four ma­jors shy of tying Jack nicklaus’ record 18 championships — a mark that becomes a little more daunting each time the 37-year­old woods fails to win one of golf’s biggest events. 
guan Tianlang of china is just getting started. at age 14, he was the youngest player to ever qualify for the masters, but showed he belonged with a solid 73 that included a 15-foot birdie from the fringe at the final hole. 
his playing partner, two-time masters champion Ben crenshaw, led the cheers. 
“i felt a little bit nervous on the first tee,” guan said. “But i hit a great tee shot and, after that, ev­erything feels comfortable.” 
shortly after dawn, the tour­nament began with ceremonial shots from three of golf’s great­est players, 83-year-old arnold palmer, 77-year-old gary player and the 73-year-old nicklaus. 
palmer was clearly pleased with his effort, which settled right in the middle of the fair­way. he pumped his right fist as the crowd roared. 
“The only nerves are to make sure you make contact,” nicklaus quipped. “it doesn’t make a diddly-darn where it goes.” 



SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles face busy schedule 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports writer 
due to weather and field conditions, saint mary’s game scheduled for Thursday against miaa opponent hope was postponed until Friday, Belles coach erin sullivan said. 
Because of the postpone­ment, saint mary’s (10-10, 2-0 miaa) will now embark on a game-intensive week­end. The Belles will face hope (12-10, 4-0) on Friday, olivet (7-13, 0-6) on saturday and finish the weekend on sunday with manchester (13-9, 5-3 heartland collegiate athletic conference). 
“we could have six to­tal games in three days, with doubleheaders Friday through sunday,” sullivan said. “so, we have to make sure not to get down when errors are committed and to adjust quickly to pitchers, as there is no time to get in a practice to improve hitting a certain pitch.” 
The weather forced prac­tices inside during the week, which sullivan said frustrated her. yet she said she believes the Belles will be prepared, especially because their com­petition has been under the same restrictions. sullivan also said the team’s playing style may need to be modified in wet conditions. 

“weather is uncontrollable, so we as a team have to go into the games with a game plan of grabbing the seams of the ball when throwing, as it will likely be wet,” sullivan said. “we also have to work on getting bunts/slaps out of the circle in front of the catcher, as hits won’t travel very far on a damp field.” 
saint mary’s second oppo­nent, olivet, is ranked last in the miaa, with a record of 0-6. yet sullivan said the comets play with great passion, and saint mary’s cannot overlook them as an opponent. 
“i don’t think their confer­ence record of 0-6 defines how they are playing this year,” sullivan said of olivet. “They have a lot of freshmen, and we need to go into the games with the mindset that olivet wants to win and we cannot take these games as sure wins at this point in our season.” 
sullivan also said olivet’s losses have been to very tough teams like alma, which has received votes in the national polls, and hope. 
although saint mary’s third opponent, manchester, will also be a tough challenge, sullivan said miaa games are the matchups saint mary’s has been preparing for all year. The top four teams in the miaa conference play in the conference champion­ships, and the winner auto­matically qualifies for the ncaa championships. 
“we know we need to be in the top four in the regular season as goal number one,” sullivan said. “From there, our second goal is to win the tournament and advance to the ncaa tournament.” 
saint mary’s will face hope at 3:30 p.m. on Friday, olivet at 1 p.m. on saturday and manchester at 1 p.m. on sunday. all games will be played at the saint mary’s softball field. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly292nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS | smc 7, BeThel 2 
Team beats Bethel, refocuses for alma 
By DONG-HYUN KIM 
sports writer 
coming off a brutal 8-1 loss against albion on wednesday, the Belles re­deemed themselves with a 7-2 win over Bethel at the eck Tennis pavilion on Thursday. 
The Belles (7-5, 2-1 miaa) faced some early struggles, falling behind in no. 1 and 2 doubles. in addition, sophomore shannon elliott quickly dropped her match at no. 3 singles, 6-1, 6-3. 
The Belles, however, turned the match around when the no. 1 doubles pair of junior mary catherine Faller and sophomore Kayle sexton came back to win 8-6 against the naia pilots (12-5, crossroads league). 
“we had to focus shot by shot rath­er than look at the big picture,” Belles coach dale campbell said. “we were down in two doubles matches, but we came back to win one.” 
The Belles took advantage of the match in singles, as sophomores audrey Kiefer and Jackie Kjolhede won at no. 1 and no. 2 singles, respectively. 
campbell said inconsistency with serves, net plays and passing shots led to some early problems for the Belles. he also said net play was a crucial area for improvement going forward in the season. 
despite these problems, the match was sealed at 6-2 with ensuing singles wins by Kiefer, Kjolhede and fresh­man margaret Faller, as well as a win by the no. 3 doubles team of elliott and margaret Faller. 
campbell said resilience, consis­tency and depth made up the differ­ence between the Belles’ blowout loss against albion and its dominating win over Bethel. 
“we were successful because we have a good combination of consis­tency in terms of high percentage shots, depth and technique that we showed today,” campbell said. 
with its 2-0 conference record, the Belles are in contention for the miaa championship, given to the team with the best record in conference dual matches. 
The Belles will look to continue their winning ways when they travel to alma, mich., to face alma at 1 p.m. on saturday. 
Contact D.H. Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

MEN’S GOLF 


Irish mix up lineup for last tournament 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
notre dame looks to finish out its regular season on a strong note when it travels to iowa city, iowa, this weekend for the hawkeye invitational. 
The irish had a disappoint­ing showing last weekend in the irish creek collegiate, finishing in 15th place with a score of 895 (297-299-299). Junior andrew lane led the starters with an av­erage of 74 over the three rounds, good enough to tie him for 35th place individually. senior paul mcnamara (73-76-75) and ju­nior niall platt (75-76-73) tied for 47th place, while the remain­ing starters, freshman corey sciupider (77-73-77) and sopho­more patrick grahek (75-76-82), finished tied for 64th and 81st places respectively. The irish did not record any below-par rounds at the tournament. 
For the hawkeye invitational, irish coach Jim Kubinski will change up his starting lineup. sophomore Tyler wingo will be returning to the starting spot he laid claim to earlier in the season, replacing grahek. according to Kubinski, the move is more of a reflection of wingo’s strong play in practice than any other factor. 
“we gave [wingo] a week off to regroup and get himself togeth­er, and he looked really good this week in practice,” Kubinski said. “we’re going to give him a chance, although patrick [grahek] has … showed well [in practice] too.” 
The irish hope the lineup changes will allow them to gain consistency, Kubinski said. he added that the irish feel as though they can build some momentum if a few players put together some strong rounds in the same tournament. 
“we’ve been disappointed with our results thus far, we just haven’t put four rounds together with four guys play­ing well,” Kubinski said. “we’ve typically only had one or two guys [playing well] this season at each event. obviously, at this level, you need to have four good rounds, if not five.” 
with a team as varied in ex­perience as the irish, it is some­times difficult to get every golfer focused and perform­ing simultaneously, Kubinski said. regardless of the team’s situation, however, Kubinski said he could always rely on his senior leader mcnamara as a stabilizing influence. 

“paul [mcnamara] has come from being a young freshman to really, not only an experienced senior, but someone who has improved as much as anyone we’ve had over his four years,” Kubinski said. “he’s totally dedi­cated, and you won’t find any­one who loves notre dame more than paul.” 
practice this week has added significance, as the irish begin to prepare for the upcoming Big east tournament. The hawkeye invitational will act as the team’s final tune up before postseason play. Kubinski said his team has the talent to succeed and simply needs to get out of its own way on the course. 
“we put extra pressure on our­selves each time out,” Kubinski said. “rather than focusing on the shot and what they need to do, they focus on what each shot means. you just have to play the shot and focus on what you need to do to score. we just have to start to relax, focus on the right thing and our talent will start to show.” 
paid adverTisemenT 

This weekend, Kubinski said the irish would be more focused on improving themselves than anything else. 
“The expectation is to try and get everyone going, build some positive momentum,” Kubinski said. “Kick back and enjoy the competition, and start to work towards the Big east [tourna­ment] in a couple of weeks.” 
notre dame will tee off at the hawkeye invitational on saturday at the Finkbine golf course in iowa city, iowa. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 




TRACK & FIELD 

Squad competes in unique “Border Battle” 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
For most of the outdoor season, the irish travel around the country and participate in huge meets with thousands of elite ath­letes. This weekend, howev­er, the team will stay in the midwest for a smaller meet that has a lot more pride on the line. 
The louisville Border Battle pits the “commonwealth” team, consisting of Kentucky and louisville against the “hoosier land” team, repre­sented by notre dame and indiana. scored as a dual meet, the Border Battle puts state pride on the line and builds a friendly rivalry be­tween the Kentucky and indiana schools, junior cap­tain and long jumper logan renwick said. 
“it’s a very different kind of meet from our usual ones,” renwick said. “it’s a lot like the dual meets we had in high school, but it’s become a tradition. … The competition is always very good.” 
The irish have compet­ed in every edition of the Border Battle, which began in 2010. after losing on both the men’s and the women’s side in the inaugural edi­tion, “hoosier land” has swept the event the past two years. last year, the irish contributed seven in­dividual victories and took both the men’s and women’s 4x400-meter relay titles. This year, the team returns three of the four relay run­ners for both the men’s and women’s races. 
“it’s a very fun meet,” renwick said of the Border Battle. “it’s smaller than anything we’ve done in out­door so far, but it’s competi­tive and fun to be scored [with indiana] and to try to win for indiana.” 
The Battle comes at an ideal time for the irish, who are coming off meets at stanford and michigan state and are scheduled to return to california next weekend for the mt. sac relays, one of the biggest track meets in the nation. The small field at the Border Battle will keep the pressure low on irish athletes and enable the team to conclude competition in one day, renwick said. 
“For the field athletes, it’s a lot different from the big meets [we’re usually in],” renwick said. “with less athletes, the flights are less crowded, you get your jumps in faster and you get it all done quicker.” 
renwick said the team hopes to use the meet to take stock of its spring sea­son, which is about to reach its midpoint. 
“we’re about halfway through outdoor right now, and we want to see if we’re getting faster and getting stronger,” renwick said. “it’s a chance for more people to get personal records and hit the [Big east] standards, or even qualify for regionals.” 
The irish will travel to louisville, Ky., to compete at the louisville Border Battle, which starts saturday at 
10:30 a.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu     



SMC GOLF 
paid adverTisemenT 
Belles take on tough field 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
coming off a ninth place finish in a competitive field of 20 teams at last weekend’s washington university-st. louis invitational, saint mary’s goes into saturday’s dutch spring invitational with some wind under its sails. 
if the Belles are to record a top finish this weekend, they’ll need strong rounds out of junior paige pollack and sophomore Janice heffernan, Belles coach Jason Kolean said. pollack leads the team with a scoring average of 
82.3 strokes and finished 41st out of 112 participants at the washington university-saint louis invitational. heffernan has posted three straight sub-85 rounds and led the Belles with a 24th place fin­ish last weekend. 
with this weekend’s meet being the Belles’ final tune­up before the first ncaa qualifier, Kolean said his team is focused on rounding its games into form, not its finish. 
“we will be facing some quality teams at the dutch spring invitational, but we just want to continue im­proving with each round of golf,” Kolean said. 
in addition to providing the Belles with one more oppor­tunity to improve, the dutch spring invitational will give saint mary’s its first look this spring at fellow miaa mem­bers hope, the invitational’s host, and calvin, two of the three teams — the other is olivet — the Belles will go up against in the three ncaa qualifiers. 
hope is coming off a sec­ond place finish at last week­end’s eight-team adrian invitational, and calvin slid in right behind them in the third position. 
with this weekend’s tem­peratures forecast in the 40s and the course wet from sev­eral days of rain, Kolean said the weather should play a factor at the invitational. 
“The conditions may not be ideal this weekend, so we need to be mentally tough,” Kolean said. “i expect all of us to be focused and play one shot at a time.” 
The dutch spring invitational will be held saturday at 9 a.m. at ravine golf club in saugatuck, mich. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



MEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame ends season with rival Louisville 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
riding a six-match win streak, the no. 32 irish will close out the regular season when they travel to Kentucky to face no. 47 louisville on saturday. 
The cardinals (13-11) won the Big east confer­ence championship last year and represent notre dame’s toughest Big east opponent this season, as they are the next-highest na­tionally-ranked team in the conference. 
“it’s a big [match] for us be­cause we have a great rivalry for louisville and a lot of re­spect for them,” irish coach Bob Bayliss said. “They have been a round-of-16 team recently in the ncaa tour­nament and, every time we play, it brings out the best competitive instinct in both teams. They won the Big east last year and so we know what’s at stake, and we’re going to certainly give it our best shot.” 
notre dame (15-7) found success against the cardinals in the regular sea­son last year, defeating them 5-2 on senior day in south Bend. The irish lost to the cardinals, however, in the fi­nals of both the 2011 and 2010 Big east championships. 
while the match marks the final regular season meet­ing between the two teams before they both move to the acc, there is also a chance the teams will face off in the Big east championships, which will be hosted by the irish from april 18-21. 
“The dynamic changes [between this weekend and next weekend],” Bayliss said. “The forecast looks like we’ll be outside in louisville, but it’s going to be iffy here. There’s not a whole lot to be taken from whether we win or lose this match. it won’t have much bearing on the next weekend, which will be the bigger matchup of the two.” 
To defeat the cardinals in louisville on saturday, the irish will have to win some key matches in the singles lineup and perform well in doubles, Bayliss said. one of these key matches will be no. 1 singles, where no. 89 irish junior greg andrews will face no. 66 cardinals sopho­more sebastian stiefelmeyer. 
“They have an outstanding no. 1 player, sebastian stiefelmeyer, who’s ranked ahead of greg,” Bayliss said. “That will be a big match up for him. … i think a number of the matchups are intrigu­ing in how they’re going to play out. we’ll take a lot away from this in terms of how we play this weekend.” 

experience will also play a key role in saturday’s match-up, as both teams return at least half of their respective singles lineup from last year. one potential rematch of last year’s regular season meet­ing may arise at no. 4 sin­gles. irish junior Billy pecor fell to cardinals sophomore michael lippens last april, 6-4, 6-4, and, barring any lineup changes, is scheduled to face lippens again at no. 4 singles. 
“i think they have four of last year’s starters in their lineup and we have three,” Bayliss said. “we’re looking at a close match.” 
The irish will take the courts against the cardinals on saturday at 2 p.m. at the Bass-rudd Tennis center in louisville, Ky. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 


Irish hope to capture singles and earn wins 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
despite three recent loss­es to Big east opponents, the no. 25 irish enter a two-match weekend with high hopes, facing central Florida on saturday in orlando, Fla., and no. 57 south Florida on sunday in Tampa, Fla. 
senior captain chrissie mcgaffigan said the weekend will be preparation for the up­coming Big east tournament. 
“it will be great to play some matches outside to pre­pare for the Big east tourna­ment,” mcgaffigan said. “we will play central Florida and south Florida, who will both be used to playing with the outdoor weather factors.” 
due to poor weather in south Bend, the irish (12-8) have had little practice on the outdoor courts. playing the Knights (13-6) and the Bulls (12-6) over the course of the weekend will give notre dame a crash course on playing out­side in the warm weather be­fore the irish are thrown into the Big east championships april 18. 
The irish face other chal­lenges outside of the environ­ment in their matches this weekend. sophomore molly o’Koniewski will be unable to play due to injury, meaning another player must step into her place at no. 5 singles. 
“some of our girls will definitely have to step up in Florida,” mcgaffigan said. 
mcgaffigan said the irish need to play at the top of their ability this weekend, espe­cially with the Big east tour­nament around the corner. 
“we are fighting as hard as we can in every match, know­ing that our season is com­ing to an end and that every point matters,” mcgaffigan said. 
The keys to the irish vic­tories this weekend will be in singles. notre dame’s last three losses were decided by close, three-set matches in singles play. To sweep the weekend, the irish will need to increase their stamina and close out close matches, mcgaffigan said. 
The irish take on central Florida in orlando, Fla., at 2 
p.m. on saturday, followed by a matchup against south Florida in Tampa, Fla., at 11 
a.m. on sunday. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 


Rutgers 
conTinued From page 24 
part,” o’donnell said. “not one person has been standing out, 
“Not one person has been standing out, everyone’s contributing when something needs to happen.” 
Brittany O’Donnell 
Irish senior pitcher 
everyone’s contributing when something needs to happen. i think that’s a really good quality about a team, when not one per­son’s a constant star but every­one’s contributing to help win. right now, we’re going out every game and fighting, and that’s what we’re focusing on, how to fight and hold on for not only our­selves but also our teammates.” 
notre dame and rutgers will square off saturday and sunday at noon at melissa cook stadium. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
Loyola 
conTinued From page 24 
record, so we haven’t as much gotten caught up in what their record is.” 
after reeling off 10 straight victories to start the season, the irish have a chance to break the school record for best start to the 
“At the end of the day, we’re going to attack their team offense with our team defense.” 
Christine Halfpenny 
Irish coach 
season, currently held by the 2004 squad. This year’s team also sits tied with the 2002 squad for most conference wins without a loss. 
halfpenny said the irish talked about breaking the season-opening winning streak even before the sea­son began. 
“we are aware of it and it certainly has been a goal of our team,” she said of the record. “last year, the team had set the same goal, and this year the players really want to be part of a team that leaves a legacy behind. They are aware of that opening streak, it’s certainly exciting.” 
halfpenny said the irish have not let the excitement distract them. 
“i think that what has al­lowed us and put us in this position at this point to be 10-0 is the fact that we are not really getting caught up in the big picture and the hype of the situation,” she said. “we are really focus­ing on the details. we are focusing on what’s gotten us to this point, which is effort, our athleticism and our resilience as a group.” 

in its second game of the weekend, notre dame will face a georgetown team ranked 10th in the coun­try in scoring offense, av­eraging exactly 14 goals per game. The irish are not far behind as they score 13.7 goals per game, which ranks 14th nation­ally. notre dame goalkeep­er ellie hilling ranks 11th nationally with a .474 save percentage, but halfpenny said the irish will have to rely on a team effort to stop the hoyas. 
“They’re very similar to us in the fact that they have a number of different scor­ing threats, they move the ball, they have great, crisp passing, they certainly will disrupt your offen­sive transition,” halfpenny said of georgetown. “at the end of the day, we’re going to attack their team offense with our team de­fense, and we’ll obviously have to pay some special attention to a couple of their facilitators.” 
notre dame faces loyola tonight at 7 p.m. and georgetown on sunday at 2 p.m. weather permitting, both games will be played at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
Pitt 
conTinued From page 24 
Jagielo is hitting .392 with 40 hits, 28 rBi and seven home runs, while mancini is batting .321 with 35 hits, 29 rBi and four home runs. Both are in contention for the Big east player of the year award and can make their respective cases this weekend, aoki said. 
The irish pitching staff will look to shut down the bats of the panthers, pri­marily focusing on stop­ping roche, aoki said. 
“[roche] is a guy you don’t want to beat you,” aoki said. “if there is a situ­ation where there’s runners in scoring position and a base open, we might opt to pitch to someone else. The game doesn’t necessar­ily allow you to do that all of the time, so we must be careful when and how we pitch to him.” 
notre dame’s start­ing rotation this weekend will consist of sophomore pat connaughton (0-1), junior adam norton (7­
0) and sophomore matt Ternowchek (4-1). norton, who has a 1.72 era for the season, will look to keep his unbeaten streak alive. after rough outings against villanova this past week­end, the staff should return to its usual high perfor­mance, aoki said. 
“i hope we get back to the body of work which our pitching suggests,” aoki said. “we got back to that Tuesday, i think. last week­end we hope was more of a fluke than who we actually are.” 

on the hill for the panthers will be juniors matt wotherspoon (4-1), ethan mildren (5-2) and rhys aldenhoven (5-0). aoki said the panthers’ arms are solid, but notre dame’s lineup will match up well with the three righties. 
“mildren and witherspoon are both good arms and good starters,” aoki said. “They did well against us last year, and i expect nothing different from them this year.  runs are going to be hard to come by this series. i would expect the games to be ex­tremely competitive.” 
First pitch is set for 5 p.m. Friday at charles l. cost Field in pittsburgh. The irish and panthers will also meet saturday at 3 p.m. and sunday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher BrucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

LOWER YOUREXPECTATIONS |   lenny rago &   paTrciKcross 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Joss stone, 26; Tricia helfer, 39; Jennifer es­posito, 40; Joel grey, 81 
Happy Birthday: refuse to let anyone put demands on your time and avoid being stubborn or putting up with impatient, unyielding people. Following what feels right will lead you in a direction you won’t regret. use your energy wisely, not vengefully. By putting it to good use, you can turn your dreams into reality. overindulgence is your enemy. your numbers are 3, 11, 23, 26, 35, 38, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): collect your thoughts before you decide to make a move. impatience will lead to mistakes. consider what you must do to reduce the pressure being put on you by colleagues, friends or someone in an influential posi­tion. show your leadership ability.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): use your imagination if you want something. a creative approach will capture attention and expand your audience. emotions may not be easy to control, but showing your passion will end up being an asset. don’t underes­timate the competition. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): limit what and how you do things. Too much of any­thing will be your downfall. getting involved in a cause you feel passionate about will help take your mind off personal issues that have the potential to spin out of control. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): a diplomatic approach to whatever you do and whoever you deal with will help you avoid unnecessary last-minute changes that can derail your plans. slow and steady progress will come with compromise and understand­ing. avoid aggressive behavior.  

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): your generosity will not help you when you are out of cash. love is in the stars, but ulterior motives are also present. Keep your emotions in check. Focus on you for a change and what you can do to improve. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): ask questions if you want a straight answer. money must be put to good use. impulsive purchases, lending or borrowing will lead to stress and added pressure. reevaluate your position and what you can do to secure and stabilize your life. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): avoid pressure situations. listen intently and give great thought to your response. abrupt and impulsive actions will not bode well with personal or professional partners. Back away from anyone treating you disrespect­fully. new surroundings will help you rejuvenate. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take on a new creative project or resurrect one that still holds your interest. let someone you care about know exactly how you feel and what your intentions are and you will enhance your relationship. make contractual changes to suit future trends. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): do all you can to explore new avenues, meet new people and venture down paths that promise adventure. love is in the stars and sharing something unique with someone special will send you in a positive direc­tion. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): uncertainty will leave you confused. Keep an open mind and an open heart, but don’t refuse to see who is on your team and who isn’t. an emotional situation will surface. if handled properly, you will retrieve stability. 



AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): revisit an old skill or service. an extra source of income will come in handy, allowing you more chances to expand your interests and your future endeavors. people from your past must be monitored before you pick up where you left off. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): ask for favors and look at investments that will help you get what you want. let your powers of persuasion lead the way to victory. if you choose wisely, you will be the one delegating the work, not doing it. 


Birthday Baby: you are passionate and progressive. you are charming, engaging and entertaining. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. Box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 


Double Trouble 
Irish set to take on No. 17 Loyola and No. 8 Georgetown this weekend 
By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 
after defeating cincinnati 13-6 last sunday, the no. 5/6 irish tied the program re­cord for best start to a sea­son with their 10th straight victory. This weekend, the squad puts its streak to the test with two home games against ranked opponents. 
notre dame (10-0, 4-4 Big east) will face no. 17/20 loyola today and no. 8/8 georgetown on sunday. 
loyola (5-6, 2-1) lost 14-11 to georgetown (8-2, 3-0) in its most recent contest. The greyhounds led the hoyas by one goal at various points in the second half and never trailed by more than two until the final five minutes. 

“Their record does not quite indicate the talent have a 5-6 record you can year and also dropped close “They’re a team that’s couple early one-goal loss-that they have on their ros-get caught up in ‘they’re on contests to no. 20 Johns fielding mainly sophomores es and really that’s all it’s ter and the talent that they a down year,’ but quite hon-hopkins and no. 11/15 and freshmen, and that’s been, a couple of one-goal have this year,” irish coach estly, they’re a young team.” virginia early in the season. what you see early on in the losses that have kept them christine halfpenny said loyola has already defeat-halfpenny said the irish are season,” halfpenny said of from having a much better of the greyhounds. “i think ed no. 7/7 penn state and focusing not on loyola’s re-the greyhounds’ close loss-that obviously, when you then-no. 16 Towson this cord but on its personnel. es. “sometimes there are a see loyola PAGE 22 

ND SOFTBALL 

irish host double header vs. rutgers 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
after rain canceled their scheduled games against Toledo on wednesday and Thursday, the irish will take on Big east conference opponent rutgers this weekend at melissa cook stadium. 
notre dame (26-10, 7-1 Big east) and rutgers (23-15, 6-5 Big east) will partake in the third annual strikeout cancer dou­bleheader saturday and play one game  sunday. 
irish senior pitcher Brittany o’donnell said the squad is pre­pared to play this weekend in spite of the recent cancellations. 
“we know that rutgers is a strong team and that they’re go­ing to come out looking to play hard to beat us,” o’donnell said. “we know that we have to play our best notre dame softball, and we’ll be fine.” 
although notre dame was not able to play against Toledo, the team managed to keep ac­tive and get in repetitions. 
The  irish  practiced  outside  
wednesday  and  had  hitting  
practice Thursday.  


“i don’t think [the cancella­tions] affect us at all,” o’donnell said. “[on wednesday and Thursday], we worked on what we needed to focus on with hit­ting, offense and defense, and going into this weekend we’ll be strong.” 
This weekend’s strikeout cancer initiative first took place in 2011, the first season after irish coach deanna gumpf’s daughter, Tatum, was diag­nosed with leukemia. Funds raised over the weekend will benefit children in south Bend and surrounding areas who have also been diagnosed with cancer. 
“i think [the weekend’s events are] definitely important to us as a team just because seeing what Tatum went through with her fight makes us want to fight and play hard to represent the university and all of the can­cer patients we’re playing for,” o’donnell said. 
This weekend, as in the past, will need to be a total team ef­fort, o’donnell said. 
“everyone’s been doing their 
see ruTgers PAGE  22 

BASEBALL 
Team looks to quiet Pitt 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
The no. 22 irish hit the road to take on conference rival pittsburgh for a three-game series this weekend. 
last season, notre dame (19-11, 4-5 Big east) swept the panthers (21-9, 3-3) in a three-game series, but the panthers are off to a hot start and look to be a com­petitive force this season, irish coach mik aoki said. 
“we had good results against them last year, but they are a much im­proved team,” aoki said of pittsburgh. “From mid­way last year, they picked up their game and con­tinued on into this year. pittsburgh will be a formi­dable opponent.” 
The irish are coming off of a hard-fought 4-1 loss to michigan on Tuesday and are on a two-game losing streak. pittsburgh is rid­ing a one-game win streak, as the panthers routed youngstown state 24-7 on Tuesday. 
The panthers’ attack is led by junior outfielder casey roche. on Tuesday, roche hit for the cycle and had 10 rBis, including a grand slam. This season, roche is hitting .376 with six home runs, 47 hits and 43 rBis. 
“casey roche is a great player,” aoki said. “he has got to be up there in the consideration for Big east player of the year. luckily, he is one guy in a lineup of nine.” 


notre dame, however, has its own response to roche. in the middle of the line­up, junior third baseman eric Jagielo and junior first baseman Trey mancini have been blasting their way through this season as well. 
see piTT PAGE 22 




