The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 43 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND, SMC celebrate connection to Naval Academy 
‘We treated them the same way we would treat ourselves’ 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 
as the blue angels flew over notre dame stadium and the fi­nal notes of the alma mater rang out, many students’ beliefs were confirmed: the atmosphere of the notre dame vs. navy game would be unlike any other this season. 
sophomore kim mai said hear­ing the stadium fall silent for the navy alma mater and witness­ing the friendly camaraderie be­tween the teams was the first time she had seen notre dame fans go out of their way to honor their opponents. 
“we treated them the same way we would treat ourselves,” mai said. 
senior billy raseman said the teams’ unity during both alma maters after the irish victory summed up the history and sig­nificance of the notre dame-navy relationship. 
“i think it was pretty much em­bodied in the fact that we stopped and the whole stadium got quiet for their alma mater,” raseman said. “There’s just a good deal of respect both ways in the fact that, yeah, navy’s a football team but first they’re over there for their 
see game PAGE 4 





Traditional dance reinstated at Saint Mary’s 

By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint mary’s editor 
on saturday, saint mary’s student government association (sga) hosted the third navy dance in college history to honor long-standing traditions between saint mary’s and the naval academy, senior class vice president susie larson said. 
The dance, which was held from 9 p.m. to 12 p.m. in the angela athletic center, was planned by sophomore, junior and senior class boards and 150 saint mary’s women and 127 midshipmen attended the event, larson said. 
“saint mary’s has a special his­tory with the naval academy,” larson said. “The history is particularly special with saint mary’s student nurses serving in various wars. … The navy dance is a gracious extension of our history. it is a simple way to express appreciation with what these guys and young women who have decided to make such a big commitment at such a young age. 
“[serving] is such a big com­mitment. if [the midshipmen] are on leave, they don’t have 
see dance PAGE 4 



Saint Mary’s welcomes Alumnae Association Board 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s associate editor 
The saint mary’s college alumnae association board of directors met wednesday through saturday for their an­nual fall conference. 
senior student alumnae associate board representative mollie valencia said the group, comprised of 19 alumnae and two current students, joins to­gether twice a year to discuss new changes and ways in which the board can better connect with their worldwide alumnae network. 

The group met on wednesday afternoon for the first of two gen­eral sessions, valencia said.  saint mary’s president carol mooney addressed the group, discussing the college’s initiative to culti­vate a community of diversity and acceptance. 
each of the board’s commit­tees and task forces agreed to en­compass these changes in their goals for involvement within the community, valencia said. 
to work to accomplish a spe­cific event or movement, and the committee meetings have a larger goal of working with the college to develop certain ar­eas like alumnae engagement, student-alumnae relations and alumnae clubs throughout the u.s.,” valencia said.  “The meet­ings revolve around figuring out ways to accomplish these goals, and all were very successful.” 
on Thursday evening, the members participated in the 
“The task forces are designed see alumnae PAGE 5 


academic affairs presents new series 
By EVELYN HUANG 
news writer 
students now have an op­portunity to hear from profes­sors outside of the classroom through the First and last lecture series. 
The department of academic affairs invites professors every semester to speak as if it were their first or last lecture at the university. 
sydney Zepf, the coordinator for last lectures, said this is a great way for students to learn from professors in a new way. 

“we ask professors to imag­ine what they would say if they could only give one more lecture in their life, and then give them the opportunity to present it to students,” she said. “This lec­ture series is unique because it allows students to hear from professors about something other than the professor’s tradi­tional area of study.” 
often, professors lecture on important lessons that they 
see lecTure PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 men’s soccer PAGE 16 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
If you could only watch one TV show for the rest of your life, what would it be? 

DeVonté Applewhite 


Emily Hergenrother 
junior 

junior 
keenan hall 

cavanaugh hall 
“river monsters.” 

“grey’s anatomy.” 
Ben Kass 


Carolyn Hassett 
junior 

senior 
morrissey manor 

lewis hall 
“murder she wrote.” 

“doctor who.” 
Kaylee Calles 


Ashley Lawrence 
junior 

senior 
pasquerilla west hall 

Farley hall 
“supernatural.” 

“doctor who.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

meg handelman Joseph monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
kelly konya mary green nicole mcalee casey karnes 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
maria massa gabriela leskur 
Photo Viewpoint 

Reilly Lecture Film: “The 39 Steps” Wellness Wednesday Constitutional Classics Lecture 
oe kenesey Tabitha ricketts 
Nieuwland Hall DeBartolo Performing Yoga Studies Lecture Nieuwland Hall 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Arts Center St. Liam Hall DeBartolo Hall 4 p.m.-6 p.m. “Random Arrays 8 p.m. 3 p.m.-4 p.m. 4:45 p.m.-5:45 p.m. “The Rosetta Stone 
Corrections 

for Multiplexed Classic film by Alfred Practice yoga. Some “Lincoln’s Executive and the Politics of 
The observer regards itself as Bioanalysis.” Hitchcock. mats provided. Discretion.” Translation.” a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Architecture Lecture Four:7 Catholic Orlando Menes Estonian National Men’s Soccer 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Bond Hall Fellowship Reading Symphony Orchestra Alumni Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
4:30p.m.-5:30 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall Hammes Bookstore DeBartolo Performing 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
“Havana 1900: 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Arts Center The Irish take on the 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
The City and its Student-led Catholic Reading by Creative 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Pittsburgh Panthers. 
we can correct our error. 

Architects.” fellowship. Writing director. Classical music. 


Speaker emphasizes developing ‘personal brand’ 
By KIERA JOHNSEN 
news writer 
companies devote great ef­forts to developing their brand, and stephanie hightower feels that a person should heed the same efforts with their personal identity. 
hightower, president of usa Track and Field and member of the 1980 olympic track and field team discussed developing and protecting one’s personal identi­ty in a lecture titled “developing your lifelong brand” on Friday in the vander vennet Theatre. cross currents program collegiate speakers series, women’s entrepreneurship initiative at saint mary’s college and key4women cosponsored the event. 
hightower said the idea of brand in business is just as valuable when developing one’s own personal image and individuality. 
“meaningful brands go far beyond any product,” she said. “They express what a company is, what they stand for and how they want to be perceived. most of all, a brand is based on the experience they have with it. apple would not be seen as cut­ting edge if buyers could not see, touch, hear, and know that were true and i am here to tell you that this idea of brand is just as valu­able when it comes to your own self image and identity.” 
hightower said there are four questions that one must ask when creating their personal brand. 
“what and who you are, what you stand for, how you want to be perceived, and what kind of ex­perience people have when they work or interact with you these are all parts of defining your own personal brand,” she said. 
she said creating an authentic and reliable personal brand re­quires sticking to the truth and starting from the ground up. 
“you want to define your au­thentic self, your brand should be built on the truth of who you are, not someone else,” she said. “next you have to build your brand from ground up. if you say you are a champion, you got to work to be a champion. if you say you are committed to excellence, then everything you do should be aimed at that goal. 
hightower said building a per­sonal brand requires a person to act in accordance with their words, because authenticity is key. 
“building your personal brand means owning and polishing what is most essentially you. … remember, it is not what we say, but what we do that counts. 
people want to know if you will backup your words with action. if your brand is the authentic you even when the spotlight is not shining,” hightower said. 
hightower said she began developing her own personal brand when she was running the 100- and 60-meter hurdles at ohio state.“i was working to­ward a singular feat: to compete in the olympics. everything in my mind, in my body, and in my soul in my activities was towards making the 1980 olympic team,” she said. 
she said developing one’s per­sonal brand was difficult, and destroying it is much easier. 
“off the track is where they for­get about building and protect­ing their image and uniqueness. There was the first offer of money from an endorsement deal, taken without thinking through who wrote the check. Then there was the first glow of the spotlight and the parties that followed, en­joyed without thinking about the national or international atten­tion that comes with it,” she said. hightower said it is never too late to start developing one’s person­al brand, whether it is as a young adult in college or as someone with a steady career. 

“For those of you who are in college and for those of us who are in the market place and out here with jobs. This is still the primetime to start defining what your personal brand is,” she said. “none of us are too old to define what our personal brand is. … you need to take this opportu­nity in your life to define your brand, to build your brand, and most important to protect your brand.” 
Contact Kiera Johnsen at kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 
library opens modern technology research center 
By MARIA DO 
news writer 
The center for digital scholarship (cds) welcomed visitors at its opening re­ception nov. 1 at hesburgh library to introduce the latest technology for scholarship of all disciplines. 
at the reception, students, faculty and the community gathered in different stations of the cds, where support technicians presented a vari­ety of the services, workshops and expertise available. 
located in the northeast corner of the hesburgh library first floor, the cds was con­ceived as part of hesburgh library’s strategic planning 
paid adverTisemenT 
process to improve library re­sources, edward h. arnold university librarian diane parr walker said. 
“one of our strategic goals is to expand digital programs and services in support of both research and teaching,” walker said. “we realized that there currently didn’t seem to be one easy-to-find place on campus where both students and facul­ty could go to get started with leveraging digital tools and technologies. we thought that the library could be a natural ‘research hub’ for campus, of­fering digital library expertise and referral services.” 
as part of the 50-year com­memoration of hesburgh library. the cds both main­tains and furthers university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh’s original vision of creating an accessible space for the university com­munity to advance scholar­ship, walker said. 
“Fr. hesburgh’s original vi­sion for the hesburgh library building (then called memorial library) was that it would be the academic heart of the university and be clearly seen as a symbol of academic excel­lence,” walker said. “in this digital age, advanced intellec­tual work will increasingly re­quire the ability to use digital tools to thrive and contribute to the creation of new knowl­edge. The cds will ensure that the hesburgh libraries will continue to be the academic heart of the university for the next 50 years and beyond as a place where students and fac­ulty can find expertise and digital tools that will help them achieve academic excellence.” 
while the new digital re­sources will transform tradi­tional methods of research, walker said the cds would succeed in meeting the tech­nological needs of the 21st century. 
“The work of the center is changing how we use our li­brary spaces and what ex­pertise and services we offer our faculty,” walker said. “already, it is revolutioniz­ing how we work together to advance teaching, research and scholarship. knowledge creation in the 21st century demands access to state-of­the-art technology, advanced research expertise and digital library services.” 

innovative research tech­nologies will also improve upon scholarship techniques of the past, walker said. 
“Traditional methods of scholarship would require physically looking through many books and publications,” walker said. “depending on how thorough you wanted to be, you could spend weeks or months exploring an answer to just one of many questions. with digital tools for text mining and analysis, and the millions of books that have been digitized from librar­ies around the world by proj­ects like google books and the internet archive project, you can search hundreds or thousands of publications very quickly to get that same answer.” 
elliot visconsi, chief academic digital officer and associate professor of english, said that the cds will ulti­mately offer new opportunities to better aid the university’s academic success. 
“The center is a great gift to the faculty and students,” visconsi said. “a question i hear a lot is one that goes like this: ‘i know there are amaz­ing tools for research and teaching, but where do i be­gin?’ The center is an answer to that question. The talented expert staff and the technical resources gathered here get students and faculty further into their work, unlocking our creativity, and giving our re­search new force and speed.” 
Contact Maria Do at                mdo1@nd.edu 



Dance 
conTinued From page 1 
schedule on the yard. so, if they are on leave weekend and we can provide a little fun for them, we definitely should seize the opportunity.” 
nicole o’Toole, junior class president, said she received posi­tive feedback from both saint mary’s women and midshipmen. 
“at least five or six midshipmen came up to us at the end of the dance and said how much they appreciated us putting it on,” o’Toole said. “one came up to me and said, ‘This was really awesome. we don’t have any­thing like this at school.’ overall, i think the midshipmen really loved the experience.” 
o’Toole said hearing this posi­tive feedback was especially re­assuring because of the many obstacles her and other members of the council of class boards had to clear to organize the event. 
preliminary talks of the dance began in august, but o’Toole said no plans could be confirmed un­til the council of class boards re­ceived approval from the senate. 
“we started talking about the dance over the summer, but when we got back to school we needed to get the approval of senate before we went ahead with any plans,” o’Toole said. “This was especially difficult be­cause we had to wait for the new senate to be elected. in the end, though, we were happy to see the senate unanimously voted in fa­vor of the dance.” 
Junior class vice president emmi scanlon said when the council proposed their plans the only major concern regard­ing the dance had to do with funding. in the end, she said the dance actually made $1,100 in profit, which was split between the senior, junior and sopho­more classes. 
originally, o’Toole said board members envisioned the dance to host about 800 saint mary’s women and midshipmen. in these plans the dance was set to be off-campus, she said. 
“That original plan was not able to pass because we weren’t able to figure out how to get the midshipmen off-campus and we were also working under a time constraint,” o’Toole said. “it would have cost more and sab [student activities board] was initially going to help out with the cost, but due to sga regula­tions sab was not allowed to co-host an off-campus event with us. This then led us to having to host the dance on campus.” 
These changes, accompanied with rsvps from only a little over 100 midshipmen, led the class board council to limit the amount of saint mary’s tickets to 150, o’Toole said. This decision resulted in many negative re­sponses from the student body, she said. 
“almost 500 saint mary’s girls rsvp’d to the dance on orgsync,” o’Toole said. “This rsvp was only to gauge interest for the event and when it came to buying tickets those who rsvp’d were given priority over those who didn’t. still, only 150 girls got tickets and i received a lot of emails and texts the next day from girls who were mad they did not receive tickets.” 
larson said she would have loved to give every saint mary’s woman the chance to buy a tick­et, but unfortunately the class board councils’ hands were tied and they had to limit the number of tickets available. 
“knowing there would be ex­ponentially less midshipmen there [if we let all 500 saint mary’s women attend] we want­ed to make the ratio was rela­tively 50/50,” larson said. “we thought 150 saint mary’s tickets would be a good selling point.” 
First-year student alaina anderson said she rsvp’d to ex­press interest in the event and was disappointed when she waited in line and was told the tickets were sold out. 
“i know someone from the naval academy that i haven’t seen in a long time and i would have enjoyed the opportunity to be with him at the dance,” anderson said. “i guess i was just a little disappointed about the way things were organized. especially because i rsvp’d and still wasn’t able to get a ticket.” 
o’Toole said the limited num­ber of tickets available prompted some students to offer their tick­et for resale to other saint mary’s students for a higher cost than the original $10 price. 
“we received word from our advisors that some girls were looking to resell their tickets for [more than] the original cost,” o’Toole said. “This is illegal and against college policy.” 
overall, larson said the event was successful and she hopes future class boards will continue the tradition. 
“even though i am a senior it was really cool to see a lot of freshmen and sophomores at­tend the event and really get this ball rolling again,” larson said. “i hope these students keep these connections with the midshipmen and host the dance in the future.” 

Fourth class midshipmen nathon markon agreed with larson’s wish to continue the tradition in years to come. 
“i had a lot of fun at the dance and met some really cool saint mary’s women,” markon said. “we play at notre dame every other year, we just swap home and away, so i guess if saint mary’s wanted to have a dance every time we come by to notre dame, every two years, it would be nice.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at     krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Game 
conTinued From page 1 
country.” 
meadow Jackson, midshipman fourth class in the notre dame reserve officer Training corps (roTc) said she thought the roTc midshipmen and notre dame stu­dent body respected the visitors because they understood that the game’s significance extended be­yond the stadium. 
“we won’t boo the team,” Jackson said. “whether we win or lose, they’re still our comrades in arms from a roTc perspective. we know that footbal is not the main goal of these students, and we respect them even more because of that. 
“Football is just an extension of what [the naval academy mid­shipmen are] trying to do, which is develop themselves professionally to serve our country. we know that football is not the main goal of these students. The main goal is to protect and defend the people of the united states … we all have the common goal, just different ways of getting there.” 
midshipman third class liz hart, a saint mary’s student, said she and her friends replaced the less-than­respectful phrase of one notre dame cheer and instead shouted “nice try, navy! go irish, go!” 
hart said notre dame students invited midshipmen from the naval academy to stay in the dorms and experience a different collegiate environment. 
“all weekend i’ve seen [the naval academy midshipmen] walking around campus,” hart said. “i saw them staying in the dorms, and i an exciting start to the game and could be anywhere but i think they know that a lot of the notre dame as another way of bringing notre wanted to show the solidarity be-community was really open to dame and navy together. tween notre dame and navy and them.“we’re all in the navy but “it was even more special be-the tradition of this football game,” our college experiences are so cause that was the first flyover since Jackson said. different.”The blue angels’ flyover the sequester of the military and “during world war ii, navy pretty during the “star spangled banner” the government,” hart said. “The much kept notre dame alive … by a drew thunderous cheers from fact that this was the first event that roTc program that allowed us to the student body and praise from the blue angels came to was pretty keep the university open yet also al­game-watchers later. awesome.” low men to serve,” she said. “i think 
“That was the lowest flyover i Jackson said the event highlight-the game between navy and notre think i’ve ever seen,” raseman said. ed the historic relationship between dame is kind of a thank you to the “it was sick.” the two schools. navy and a show of respect to that.” 
hart said the flyover stood out as “we know that the blue angels raseman, who is a member of the 
paid adverTisemenT 


notre dame glee club, said he ex­perienced the friendliness between notre dame and navy three years ago when the group performed with the naval glee club at a joint concert in new york. 
“when we sang with them, we actually exchanged cufflinks,” raseman said. “a bunch of guys still have the navy ones, and they still wear them.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at     lsteven1@nd.edu 


Lecture because it gives students an op-an integral part of this series, 
to be able to talk to them about 
Alumnae 
portunity to take advantage of kirchoff said. 
my own goals for the future,” 
conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 
the knowledge of their teachers “maybe this is a cliched line, 
hossfeld said. “it always amazes 

have learned throughout their in a new way. it also serves to but notre dame is a unique in-
annual success after saint me to meet alumnae and con-
careers, Zepf said. bridge the gap between profes-stitution, and professors — like 
mary’s event, which was open to nect immediately over our love 
“professors tend to lecture sors and students and to help many students — come here be-
all students, valencia said. for saint mary’s; they want to 
about the ways that they have students get to know their pro-lieving that they can be part of 
The event began with keynote talk to us students just as much 
gained their success and im-fessors in a new way. many pro-something truly special. They 
speaker charmaine Torma ’99, as we want to learn from them.” 
portant lessons that they have fessors have amazing stories are not just joining the faculty 
who spoke to students about the valencia said the weekend 
learned. however, the time that students just don’t get to of one of america’s top universi­
importance of networking. also included orientation for new 
of the lecture is completely hear in a classroom setting. “ ties, but the faculty of a uniquely 
“let me assure you, your saint group members, a chemistry 
theirs — we give professors no These lectures are held twice catholic university,” he said. 
mary’s degree is well worth the show put on by the smc 
restrictions.” a year, and anyone is allowed to These lectures may also have 
time and investment,” Torma chemistry department, mass 
attend, Zepf said. many benefits for the future, 

said. “professional networking for all saint’s day and a lun-
The First lecture series is a kirchoff said. specifically, he 

will give you the edge you need. cheon for the members and the 
new addition to the academic said he hopes to see the First and 

remember that networking hap-alumnae relations committee 
“We ask professors affairs department. last lectures set a precedent for 
pens every day and anywhere. in stapleton lounge. 
to imagine what Timothy kirchoff, the coor-student-professor engagement 
it’s much more than meeting Junior Julia dunford said the 
dinator for First lectures, said outside the classroom. 

new people. it’s about being luncheon was a great success. 
they would say 
this series gives students the op-“if each individual First 

purposeful. make sure you take “The alumnae were very will-
if they could portunity to listen to new pro-lecture sends the message to 
the time to remember a person’s ing to connect us with their net-
only give one fessors talk about their fields of the speaker that students are in-
name, because networking is all works and help us in any way 
specialty, and why they came to terested in this kind of engage-

about relationship-building.” they could,” dunford said. “after 
more lecture in 
the university. ment and encourages both the 

The speech was followed by all, alumnae are some of the big-
their life, and 
“it seems to me that, when a speaker and students to pursue 

a presentation by carla leal ’13 gest supporters of saint mary’s 
then give them professor comes to notre dame it more deliberately, i would 
and peggy rodgers Taylor ’78 that students and it was awesome to 
the opportunity specifically in order to partici-consider it a success. as a series, 
taught students the top 10 ways speak with them on a personal 
to present it to pate in notre dame’s mission as though, i would like the First 
to impress when networking. level. most of them were still 
a catholic university, we should lecture to help both students 

Junior sarah hossfeld said she wearing their class rings, and it 
students.” 
take note of that in some way, and professors develop a deeper 

learned a great amount from the connected us immediately.” 
Sydney Zepf and that is what the First lecture appreciation for and willingness 
various alumnae, including the valencia said the weekend 
coordinator for Last Lectures is designed to do,” he said. “it is to participate in notre dame’s 
members of the board whom she concluded with the “welcome 
an opportunity for a professor unique identity and mission,” 

was able to mingle with after the home” tailgate event at 
to discuss their field of expertise kirchoff said. 

speeches concluded. dalloway’s clubhouse, where 
and why they wanted to come The First lecture series be­

“i thought success after saint alumnae and their families 
while anyone can attend to notre dame — to place their gins with a talk from professor 
mary’s was such a good opportu-could mingle with students and 
these lectures, the series serves own work in the context of notre deneen of the department of 
nity for students to practice how faculty before the home football 
as a connection between stu-dame’s mission as an institu-political science on nov. 11. 
to properly introduce themselves game on saturday. 
dents and professors, Zepf said. tion that seeks to bring faith and 
and network with the alumnae. 
“This lecture series is ben-reason into conversation.” Contact Evelyn Huang at 
all of those women are so ac-Contact Kelly Konya at 
eficial for the nd community The notre dame identity is ehuang1@nd.edu 
complished, and i felt honored kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



life off campus 
Bryan Daly 
multimedia 

most notre dame students at some point and to some degree consider moving off campus. 
after committing to the idea last year, i am now living off campus as a junior at university edge. so far the experi­ence has definitely been worth it. 
i only have one roommate whom i get along with very well. i don’t see much of him due to our busy schedules, but when we do hang out it’s always a good time. 
having my own room is a god-send. i have a reasonably large closet, my own bathroom, and a queen-size bed i don’t have to climb a ladder to get into every night. i even have room for a futon in case anyone ever needs to crash at my place. 
There’s also a washer and dryer in my apartment, which means no more wait­ing or paying to use the machines. 
Though south dining hall is no lon­ger a short walk away, i do get a chance to perfect my cooking skills. That be­ing said, i still have a simple meal plan because sometimes i’m on campus five straight hours. 
i would suggest to those moving off campus a basic block meal plan or even a good amount of flex points is some­thing worth having in the long run. some days you won’t be able to just hop in the car and drive back to your apart­ment to make a sandwich when you’re hungry. 
also, students deciding to move off campus should design their class schedule accordingly. personally, i made my schedule so i could drive to school in the morning, get through all my classes and drive back. i didn’t want an awkward three-hour gap in between my classes, but others might. 
looking back, my freshman and sophomore years were perfect for living on campus. you bond with the people in your dorm, become familiar with the campus and experience the thrill of college football season. 
yet, being an upperclassman now, i value having a place where i can escape the stresses of college i can’t seem to shake while on campus. i get to enjoy the best of life on and off campus. 
Contact Bryan Daly at bdaly@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Amanda Peña 
The bubble 
how have you changed in college? who were you when you entered notre dame? more importantly, who is the person you would like to be when you leave our lady’s university? 
college offers a unique opportu­nity for students to engage in aca­demic, professional and personal enrichment; but between the as­signment floods and extracurricular commitments, most students are not given the chance to reflect on the person they were, have become or are becoming. 
i have spent much of fall break re­flecting on these questions after an event in my relationship gave me the space to think about this. who was i when i began my freshman year? who did i want to become? what are some of the things that are prevent­ing me from becoming that person? at the beginning of fall break, i re­played both painful and joyful mem­ories that perpetuated academic and personal decisions i made, or didn’t make, during my freshman year. and i began to notice how that first year ignited something powerful in me that drastically changed the course of my succeeding college years. 
i am cut from a very different cloth than most of my peers. as an ethnic minority from a lower economic sta­tus, my adjustment into college was a lot harder and lonelier than many people may understand. experiences with racism were secondary to my internal feelings of embarrass­ment when i couldn’t afford winter clothes, football tickets and had to turn down invitations to off-campus dinners at places as cheap as chipotle. Then you throw in the eating disorder and an unhealthy relationship on top of the standard first-year college struggles and you have a serious identity crisis. 
but, these issues were a blessing in disguise. They influenced my academic decisions (self-designed major in sustainable development; poverty studies minor), altered my friendship circles and challenged my previous lack of faith. i found god in my pain, and having ignored the opportunities to explore my faith freshman year, i was determined to make changes to my life the follow­ing year. 
needless to say, my life has seen a dramatic upswing, and i am cur­rently finding myself in a state of confusion, opportunity and big decision-making. i’ll be graduating in three semesters, and while that seems somewhat far away, my future is just a couple houses down from knocking on my door. and once i graduate and begin the next phase of my life, what will i know about myself before making those big decisions? 
will i be kicking myself for not tak­ing classes i was heavily interested in but too afraid to fail? what were my priorities and how have they altered my relationships with the people around me? 
have i let god lead my life, or did i try to take control over the events in my life and stop listening to his whisper amidst the chaos? have i been so consumed with what i’m expected to do that i’ve neglected the value of the small, precious moments that add more quality to my life than mundane obligations? religious or not, i believe these are questions worth asking yourself as well. 
i used to believe reflection was something you do on a formal retreat in complete solitude and silence. i never thought it would begin sitting across from my boyfriend at a table in the bk lounge of laFun. 

are there any discrepancies be­tween the person i want to be and the person i am becoming? 
here, i was developing a passion for environmental issues and so­cial justice but i had not developed a concept of my own abilities and skills. when people ask me what i’m good at, i seriously have no clue. when they ask what career i plan on pursuing, i can’t answer concretely. 
and that’s perfectly okay. 
it’s okay to not know who you are or where you’re going. you don’t need to follow the other sheep and find a nine-to-five job or go straight to grad school. give yourself the time you deserve to listen to the voice inside that’s trying to discuss who you are and who you have the potential to become. you could be on a destructive path and not even know it. you could be opening doors for something beautiful and never acknowledge it as a good thing. 
That whole “Take time to stop and smell the roses” thing — as clichéd as it is — is important. don’t get so caught up with life that you forget how to live. don’t neglect the people and things that add more substance to your life or let them get pushed to the wayside. enjoy life for what it is and stop worrying about how that translates into the “real world.” 
we are the “real world” and i want my presence in it to begin now … not after graduation. who do you want to be? 
Amanda Pea is a junior and a sustainable development studies major with a poverty studies minor. She can be contacted at apena4@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The real autumn fright 
Connor Roth 
Think. it’s not illegal yet 

last halloween, one of my economics professors made some jokingly-pro­found comments on what he believed was truly the scariest thing to dress up as on the 31st: a human embodiment of Fannie mae or Freddie mac. 
These two federal mortgage giants received bailouts — costing taxpay­ers an estimated $188 billion — and up until recent months, have run consis­tent deficits. however, this year, Fannie and Freddie have not been the promi­nent source of fear for the american people. while ghouls and goblins may ice the hearts of many youngsters on halloween, the real tremors felt by the public stem from the utter state of shambles one may clearly observe in washington. 
apart from the recent 16-day govern­ment shutdown, the primary concerns of late revolve around the nsa scandals and the affordable healthcare act’s implementation. Just when i thought i could write about a new topic — such as our interventionist foreign policy or the militarization of the police force — newspapers revealed the nsa has had german chancellor angela merkel’s cellphone wiretapped since as far back as 2002. There has been uproar in germany over these revelations of 
u.s. spying on their soil; having been in munich when this intel was released, all i could tell my hostel-friends in my limited german was, “das ist nicht gut. es tut mir leid.” 
another interesting twist in the germany spying debacle is senator dianne Feinstein’s (ca-d) newly found disapproval of the nsa wiretapping; last monday, she came out stating she was “totally opposed” to the u.s. spying on its allies and “demanded” reform to our surveillance programs. The irony of her aversion to international spying is illustrated by Feinstein’s october 13th wall street Journal op/ed, entitled “The nsa’s watchfulness protects america.” in this article, the california senator took the strong opinion that nsa sur­veillance and mass data collection pro­tects americans from terrorist attacks 
— and thus although it violates our privacy, should still operate. one may wonder why it took international sur­veillance to inspire this senator to come out against the nsa’s current modus operandi while she was completely in support of such a program when it only affected her own countrymen. 
perhaps the most notable aspect in respect to the international trust-breaker is president obama’s stance on the issue. understanding the american relationship with germany is vital not only for trade, but also for peace talks, the president rushed out to criticize the nsa for its actions. however, president obama was even more quick to mention he was not informed about the surveil­lance programs abroad. 
This admission is the source of cur­rent american concern: obama either is telling the truth and did not know about the u.s. spying on its allies — or he is simply lying to save face. regardless of which is truly the case, the public is left in a lose-lose situation. if obama really did not know, then he comes off as a weak, “left in the dark” president. is it not his job to know what is going on in his administration? on october 29th, even msnbc ran a video criticiz­ing president obama’s “implausible deniability,” providing clips of various issues such as the Fast and Furious mexican weapons scandal, healthcare. gov’s glitches and crash detected dur­ing a beta test, the irs targeting of conservative political groups, and the department of Justice’s subpoenas for the associated press’ phone records, among others. The common denomina­tor amongst his response to each nega­tive outcome: “i didn’t know about it; i heard about the issue from the newspa­pers like you.” if he really did not know about any of these problems, are we supposed to applaud the president for his ignorance? 

instead of michael myers or that masked guy from “scream” — who are assuredly fictional movie characters (i hope…) — americans are faced with the reality our president is either lying to the faces of those who put him in office on the platform of peace, hope, change and transparency, or he is simply kept out of the loop by unelected bureaucrats like those at the nsa. either way, that is certainly one spooky political truth that encapsulates a lot of tricks with very few noticeable treats. it appears charlie brown’s desperate words from the classic halloween television special came true for the american people this fall: instead of sweet government deals and handouts, we all seemingly just got a rock. perhaps there is a wider truth to this narrative. 
Connor Roth is a junior studying economics and constitutional stud­ies. He lives in Duncan Hall, hails from Cleveland, Ohio and is currently partici­pating in the London abroad program through Notre Dame. He can be contacted at croth1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Show your sweaters some love 
Christian Nofziger 
ask the greenman 
Fellow Tree huggers, 

as the leaves turn and start to fall, i am sure you, like me, are excited about one thing: ugly sweater season. ah yes, the only time of the year you can don that horrendous sweater from the eddie bauer 1984 winter catalog. november is also laundry month for the dorm energy championship. in preparation for this jubilant season of woolen wonder, i have prepared some tips and tricks to keep your sweaters in prime condition and save the planet at the same time. 
First, it is a little known fact that woolen sweaters love company. you should never wash them in a half load as this could be detrimental to their psyche. washing them in this fashion also wastes water. Typical top-load washers, like we have on campus, require 40 gallons of water. make sure you load all the clothes you can. This will ensure your sweater is well socialized, and could save hundreds of gallons of water a year. 
secondly, sweaters are terrified of hot water. many generations of coffee spills have had their impact. Thus, you should only wash your sweaters in cold water. 
with advances in modern soap technol­ogy, cold water is just as effective at clean­ing your clothes as hot. since about 90 percent of the energy to run a load of wash is used to heat the water, this is another great way to save energy and take the lead in the dorm energy championship. 
Finally, sweaters are fragile creatures that cannot handle the hostile environ­ment of a dryer. every time you use a clothes dryer your sweaters lose a little piece of themselves. This shows up as the nasty lint. instead you should allow them to hang-dry. This little bit of extra effort on your part will preserve your other clothes as well. hang-drying can also save your dorm a ton of electricity. over an 18-year lifetime a household clothes dryer costs about $1500 to run, so imagine the savings your dorm could realize if you give your overused dryers a break. 

i hope, armed with this information, you all enjoy ugly sweater season sus­tainably.  don’t be afraid to change your laundry routines or be true to your ugly sweater. 
Christian Nofziger can be reached at cnofzige@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

students need to know  insurance options now 
The Daily Orange Editorial Board 
The daily orange 

it’s crucial that college students start thinking about obamacare — maintain­ing our own health insurance plans is a closer reality than many college students might think. 
eighty percent of students are not well enough aware of the patient protection and affordable care act’s insurance exchange, according to a sept. 26 usa Today article. The site, which launched on oct. 1, compares insurance plans through an online market place model, and then allows users to choose a plan based on income and age. This exchange can be found on healthcare.gov. 
college students often push the thought of insurance plans to the back of their minds because for many, it is not an immediate necessity. Those under the age of 26 are covered by their parents’ insurance plans, unless they receive insurance from an employer. 
but 26 isn’t that far off, and some col­lege students will be responsible for their own health insurance before they reach this age. 
students need to become more edu­cated on obamacare now to avoid pur­chasing an insufficient plan at the last minute. a lack of knowledge on the sub­ject could cause college students, when they do become responsible for their own plans, to make poor choices. 
obamacare will benefit college stu­dents, especially those not fortunate enough to rely on their parents’ health coverage. after all, not everyone has a secure health insurance plan. 
it will also allow students to choose plans without the fear of being denied coverage because of a pre-existing health condition, according to usa Today. 
obamacare will one day be an option for health coverage for today’s college students. it is important that they take an interest now to ensure they make the best decisions in the future. 
They should also understand its value in american politics. obamacare has caused massive contention and even a government shutdown as republicans attempted to upend the law’s passage 

— its importance in the changing land­scape of american politics cannot be denied. voters, specifically those of col­lege age, need to understand the issue. 
in politics, nothing can be accom­plished without a strong understanding of the issue. The same can be said for students entering the world of health care. 
The  Daily Orange is the independent student newspaper serving Syracuse University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Matt McMahon 
scene writer 
Allie Tollaksen 
scene writer 

Just a few days ago, on halloween, grouplove per­formed at legends. The band is currently touring to support the release of its new album “spreading rumours.” opening for them on a string of dates is the electronic dance act The knocks. 
below is a back and forth conversation on the con­cert between two attendees who took more notes with their phones than pictures: 
Allie Tollaksen: so, matt, what were your thoughts on the opener, The knocks? 
Matt McMahon: well, stepping into the show as they just got on stage, i don’t know if i was fully prepared mentally — or physically — for what i was about to experience. To a crowd of halloween costume-clad students, the masked and cloaked duo of ben “b-roc” ruttner and James “Jpatt” patterson rocked out to many edm stylings of classic tunes. never has four on the floor been a more apt descriptor for a musical act. 
AT: i totally agree. b-roc and Jpatt got a little repeti­tive for me. The thumping bass and filtered vocals felt a lot like every song you’ve ever heard in a Forever 21. 
MM: yes, i have gone shopping at Forever 21 and completely understand that sentiment. 
AT: i figured you would. but it felt like the group, es­pecially in their costumes, really wanted everyone to know they liked daft punk. The knocks certainly wore that influence on their sleeve, but crossed with some­thing a little more current, like benny benassi. 
MM: definitely, they combined their daft punk infatuation with more recent pop trends from other edm acts. i’d actually like to go back to what you were saying about their vocals. i don’t think i could make out on any song whether the voices i was hearing were samples, live vocals, or something in between. 
AT: absolutely. i couldn’t tell if their version of m83’s “midnight city” was a cover or a remix, or if either of the guys were singing at any given point in their set. but, their m83 cover (because it did turn out to be a cover), was pretty good actually. 
MM: yeah, that was probably the most memorable piece from their performance. what were your impres­sions of grouplove’s set? i know you said going in that you weren’t the biggest of fans of their music, but you really like their latest single, “ways to go.” 
AT: i was pleasantly surprised by their performance. i came into it not having listened to much of their new­est album, “spreading rumours,” and only knowing a few tracks off of their first full length album, “never Trust a happy song.” when the show started out, i was surprised with the clarity in the sound. besides fumbling a little bit with the balance of female vocalist hannah hooper’s mic, which i couldn’t hear well until about four songs in. 
MM: yeah, i think there’s something to be said that on a night when a bass heavy outfit performed, the most captivating rhythm section — especially the strength of their drummer — came from a straight indie rock band that can really rock the hell out of a show. They sounded edgier and more compelling not only than their opener, but also their own studio recordings. 

AT: i was actually a little disappointed to go home and listen to some of their songs on “spreading rumours” only to find out they weren’t as strong as their live versions. 
MM: me too! my favorite song they played live was “bitin’ the bullet,” that repeated piano riff is so infec­tious, but when i went to listen to the album version, after having it stuck in my head for the rest of the night, i was sorely disappointed. They ruined it in the production, and what’s with the whispered chorus? i feel like they try to make their songs too radio-friendly. 
AT: Their music does feel radio-friendly, though, even live. grouplove has a knack for taking every one of their songs and somehow combining a bubblegum pop section with some sort of unexpected element. whether that be an unexpected minor chord, suspen­sion or switch in keys in the vocals, it makes them more interesting than i had anticipated. 
MM: i agree, i made a note that i’m not sure makes sense, but it read, “gl has a peculiar knack for striking out and knocking it out of the park in the course of a single song,” which, i think, echoes your point. well, i think we’ve milked this show for as much as we could. 
AT: i think we have, too. but overall, i think they did more a job knocking it out of the park than striking out this halloween. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu and Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


Notre Dame 38, NaVY 34 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2013 | NDsmcobserVer.com 
Narrow escape 

Notre Dame avoids Navy’s upset bid in game with eight lead changes, 925 yards of total offense 
If Saturday is any 
indication, BCS 
hopes could fade 

Matthew DeFranks 
assistant managing editor 
No. 25 Notre Dame was hit by a wave saturday afternoon. 
the Irish were hit by a wave of midshipmen racing around the edge. they were hit by 331 rush­ing yards. they were hit by Navy senior safety Wave ryder. they were hit by a wave of injuries. even fans hit the Irish with a wave when they did it with 14:20 left in the game and Notre Dame down by three points. 
but more than anything, the Irish were hit by a wave of reality during their 38-34 win over the midshipmen on saturday. 
Notre Dame must play better if it is to fulfill its goals of finish­ing 10-2 and reaching a bcs bowl game. 
the offense did its best to keep up with Navy’s, but the Irish defense had trouble stopping Navy. Giving up nearly five yards per rush and four touchdown runs to a service academy is not a good omen for Notre Dame when they face bYU’s up-tempo, run-centric offense or when they face stanford’s bruising offen­sive front. 
Notre Dame was pounded up the middle by Navy’s fullbacks (sophomore chris swain and junior Quinton singleton com­bined for 162 yards) and gashed on the outside by sophomore quarterback Keenan reynolds (three rushing touchdowns). the Irish secondary was torched on one touchdown drive for 52 yards through the air, twice what Navy had prior to the drive. 
the Irish defense that had been rounding into form took a huge step backwards saturday afternoon. Navy converted on 10 of 16 third downs, turned all four red-zone trips into touch­downs and held the ball for nearly two-thirds of the game. 
Prior to saturday, the Notre Dame defense had been forcing turnovers and keeping teams off the scoreboard. they had not al­lowed a second-half point since the arizona state game and took the ball away every game since oklahoma. Navy scored 14 second-half points and failed to turn the ball over. 
see reaLItY PAGE 3 

By CONOR KELLY 
sports Writer 
on a day when neither de­fense seemed to be able to get off the field, No. 25 Notre Dame got a stop when it counted. the Irish stuffed a Navy reverse on 4th-and-4 at the Notre Dame 31 yard-line to cement a 38-34 victory on a cold, wet saturday at Notre Dame stadium. 
It was far from a rousing vic­tory as the Irish (7-2) traded leads with and often struggled to find ways to stymie the midshipmen (4-4), but Irish coach brian Kelly was happy to escape with a win against a disciplined Navy squad. 
“I mean, if you look out at option teams, especially Navy, I’m ecstatic about getting out of here with a win in terms of the way they played today,” Kelly said. “I mean, they were flawless in terms of their ex­ecution. When they’re on and they’re playing well, you’re just really excited [to get a win].” 
From the opening drive, defensive stops were in short supply for both teams. 
the Navy defense brought the Irish to a fourth down on Notre Dame’s first posses­sion of the game, but junior running back cam mcDaniel converted on 4th-and-1, and junior running back George atkinson took a handoff 41 yards to the end zone on the following play. 
the midshipmen followed with a touchdown of their own as sophomore quarterback Keenan reynolds plunged in from two yards out, the third consecutive game in which the Irish have surrendered 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
TAREAN FOLSTON 
IRISH FRESHMAN RUNNING BACK 
Folston toted the rock 18 times for a career-high 140 yards. In the process, he became the first Irish rookie running back to amass at least 100 yards since 2007. Folston, who had gained just 116 rushing yards through the first eight games, scored the decisive touchdown when he plunged in from a yard out to make it 38-34 Notre Dame. 
a touchdown on their oppo­nent’s opening drive. 
Notre Dame struggled to contain Navy’s triple-op­tion attack, surrendering 331 yards on the ground to the midshipmen.  Navy was able to control the clock and keep an Irish offense, one that averaged nine yards per play, mostly off the field. the midshipmen ran 79 plays to Notre Dame’s 56 and con­trolled the ball for 15:12 longer than the Irish. Four different midshipmen — sophomore fullback chris swain, junior fullback Quinton singleton, sophomore slot back Demond brown and reynolds — rushed for at least 50 yards. 
“]Navy] executed flawlessly today. Hats off to them,” Kelly said. “they controlled the clock, made possessions diffi­cult relative to time of posses­sion. so just, again, shortened the game, no penalties, no turnovers and really played a great game and really took us in a position — put us in a position — that we had to play great in the second half.” 
Despite Navy’s discipline and execution, it was a pair of uncharacteristic errors that helped the Irish win. after reynolds’ second-quar­ter touchdown run put the 
see sUrVIVaL PAGE 2 
Freshman Folston carries the load, scores decisive TD 

By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports Writer 
With less than four minutes left in the game, the ball at the Navy 1-yard line and No. 25 Notre Dame down three, Irish senior quarterback tommy rees turned and handed the ball to a team­mate three classes his junior. Irish freshman running back tarean Folston took the ball from his quarterback, leapt over the pile at the goal line and put the Irish (7-2) ahead for good with 3:47 left to play saturday at Notre Dame stadium. 
“I was just reading my keys,” Folston said. “It was a big mess and I just jumped over it. I have never dove over an o-line or D-line in my life. [It was just] instincts.” 
against the midshipmen (4-4), Folston rushed for 140 yards on 18 carries. 
“[Folston] was running well, and [we] just felt like we’d stick with him in terms of the way he was running,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. “Generally speaking, there was only one run that I did not like, where he did not go north and south. … We’re looking for guys to go north and south and make people miss, and I think if you look at all his runs, he by and large did that.” 
through the first eight games of the season, Folston totaled 116 rushing yards and only carried the ball 22 times, a mark he nearly matched against Navy. 
“I think [Folston’s] conditioned better,” Kelly said. “I don’t know that he would have made that many carries early in the year. He wasn’t conditioned well enough to be in there. “ 
For the freshman running back, practices have been essen­tial to his conditioning regimen this season. 
“In practice, we have very in­tense days,” Folston said. “as long as you go full speed every day, I feel like practice will get you more and more conditioned each day. In college football, you have to be in pretty good shape, so coming out with 18 carries today really shows how much my condition­ing has improved.” 
on Notre Dame’s final drive (excluding the three kneel-downs at the end) late in the fourth 
see FoLstoN PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 








QUARTERBACKS 

tommy rees didn’t have anywhere near the gaudy num­bers he posted against air Force, but the senior made plays when needed. most notably, he fired a strike down the mid­dle to tJ Jones for a score and found troy Niklas for a crucial third-down conversionin the fourth quarter. only rees’ second interception can fall on his shoulders. 
RUNNING BACKS 

the Irish went toe-to-toe with the Navy ground game and notched 264 yards and averaged 7.3 yards per carry. George atkinson got things started with a strong 41-yard scoring scamper, and tarean Folston had the marquee, 140-yard performance. cam mcDaniel was predictably reliable and also tallied seven rushes for 52 yards. 
RECEIVERS 

Drops continue to be a non-factor with this Notre Dame receiving corps. tJ Jones hauled in four passes for 111 yards and a score, while Niklas, ben Koyack and DaVaris Daniels each had a pair of receptions. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

the Irish didn’t allow a sack and were dominant in both pass protection and run blocking, as Notre Dame aver­aged 9.0 yards per play and didn’t have a play of negative yardage until the kneel-downs at the end of the game. New starting guards conor Hanratty and steve elmer hardly missed a beat. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

Navy chalked up 331 rushing yards and Notre Dame post­ed just one sack, but numbers aren’t the whole story against an option team. still, this thinning unit struggled at times, especially when defending fullback chris swain up the middle. Kona schwenke had a career-high 11 tackles. 
LINEBACKERS 

carlo calabrese, Dan Fox and Jaylon smith held down the unit as Prince shembo played as, essentially, a fourth line­man. the backers lost contain at times and missed some tackles, but smith and company stepped up when needed on the final play, the reverse stuffed for no gain. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

It was a different type of game for the secondary against another option team, but the Irish struggled at times to contain the option and missed tackles. they allowed matt aiken to break wide open downfield for a go-ahead touch­down in the fourth quarter. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Navy routinely gained solid field position with its kick returns, and Kyle brindza had two touchbacks in seven kickoffs. Notre Dame never needed to punt and only had one field-goal attempt (a made 26-yarder), and its own return game was merely adequate. 
COACHING 

Navy kept hanging around, and while brian Kelly praised the mids after the game for flawless execution, the point remains that Notre Dame never seemed to have an answer for the option. Fortunately for Kelly and the Irish, they went blow for blow on offense and got a stop when needed. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.15 

the Irish narrowly squeaked by Navy in a tough game to evaluate. Kelly and his team figure to be thrilled to be through with the option, as the defensive depth continues to be pushed to the absolute limit. still, Notre Dame’s offense was remarkably consistent and kept the Irish in the game, allowing them to improve to 7-2. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
LINEBACKER JAYLON SMITH’S TACKLE ON NAVY’S FINAL PLAY 
With the ball at the 50-yard line, 3:47 left and trailing by four, Navy was in prime position to rumble down the field and score a winning touch­down. the mids dialed up a reverse on fourth-and-four, and smith, with eilar Hardy’s help, tackled shawn Lynch for no gain to ice the game. 
Survival 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
midshipmen up 20-17, sopho­more kicker Nick sloan missed the extra-point attempt that would have put Navy up by four. 
two quarters later, on Navy’s final possession of the game, when the midshipmen trailed 38-34 and needed a touch­down instead of a field goal, the team faced a 2nd-and-5 at the Irish 32 yard-line. reynolds pitched left to sophomore slot back Debrandon sanders. but the toss was slightly behind sanders, who dropped the ball and was forced to fall on it for a nine-yard loss. two plays later on 4th-and-4, Irish junior safe­ty eilar Hardy blew by a block to blow up the Navy reverse and force senior receiver shawn Lynch into the arms of fresh­man linebacker Jaylon smith to ice the game. 
“We might have taken a tad too long on the reverse there. We felt like it was open,” Navy coach Ken Niumatalolo said. “I’ve got to go back and look at tape, but I think we’re one block from breaking it.” 
the victory was a coming-out party for Irish freshman run­ning back tarean Folston and the rest of the ground game, as Notre Dame churned out 264 yards on 36 attempts, the most prolific and efficient output of the season. receiving the bulk of the carries for the first time this year, Folston rushed for 140 yards on 18 attempts and carried eight times on Notre Dame’s final drive, which end­ed with Folston’s one-yard leap into the end zone with 3:47 re­maining to take the lead. Part of a deep stable of running backs that has shared carries for the Irish, Folston said he rel­ished the opportunity to get the ball when it counted. 


“It was really just put me in and let me make this play,” Folston said. “Five yards here, five yards there, 10 yards. It’s just the flow of the game. they kept me in and I made some plays.” 
before Folston’s touchdown, the crucial play for the Irish on the game-winning drive was a 28-yard pass from senior quar­terback tommy rees up the seam to junior tight end troy Niklas. the completion came on 3rd-and-8 after the Irish were pushed back by an illegal-substitution penalty. Niklas caught the pass between a quartet of midshipmen defend­ers and dragged them an extra five yards to extend the drive. 
“For me, you’ve just got to put it up there and let the big guy get it,” rees said. “He’s pretty tough to take down after he gets the ball in his hands. so it was awesome.” 
In addition to Folston and atkinson, junior running back cam mcDaniel ran seven times for 52 yards and a score as the Irish backs averaged 7.3 yards per carry. rees threw for 242 yards and two touchdowns, finding senior receiver tJ Jones on a 36-yard pass down the middle for a score and hitting junior tight end ben Koyack for a 17-yard touchdown off play-action. rees also threw two interceptions. 
Defensively, senior defensive lineman Kona schwenke, fill­ing in for injured senior nose tackle Louis Nix, led the Irish with 11 tackles, all of which came before he left in the sec­ond half with an ankle injury. Graduate student linebackers carlo calabrese and Dan Fox contributed 10 and nine stops, respectively. 
the injury to schwenke was one of a slew of injuries on the defensive side of the ball that could test Notre Dame’s depth going forward. schwenke (ankle), junior linebacker ben councell (knee) and sopho­more defensive end sheldon Day (ankle) all went down on saturday. 
“We reached it and surpassed it,” Kelly said of the limits of his team’s depth in the defensive front seven, which was already without Nix and junior line­backers Jarrett Grace and ju­nior linebacker Ishaq Williams. “We didn’t complain about it. It’s part of the game. Injuries happen. You’ve just got to find a way to get it done, and they did. We’ll find a way to get it done.” 
the Irish will travel to Pittsburgh next saturday. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 




OE KENESEY | The Observer 

Irish freshman running back Tarean Folston slices upfield during Notre Dame’s 38-34 victory over Navy on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. Folston carried for a career-high 140 yards. 
Folston 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
quarter, Folston took seven car­ries for 46 yards before punching the ball in from one yard out. as a whole, Folston ran for at least 10 yards on seven of his 18 carries. 
“It started up front for us,” rees said. “those big guys up front played a heck of a game, and we were able to run the ball fine.” 
Likewise, Folston was quick to give credit to his offensive line. 
“the big guys up front did an excellent job of blocking,” Folston said. “I couldn’t have done any of the running without them. the o-line takes pride in what they do. they just did a great job to­night and that helped.” 
Reality 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
While the box score may indicate that Navy played mistake-free football, two key errors foiled the mids’ upset bid. a missed extra point in the second quarter made Navy’s late deficit four points instead of three and a fumbled pitch put them in a third-and-long position. 
Without those two mis­takes on routine plays, the midshipmen could have knocked off the Irish and wiped out Notre Dame’s season. 

at the same time, Folston’s ef­forts with the ball in his hands did not go unnoticed and were not entirely unexpected, rees explained. 
“We’ve known from day one he could provide another weap­on for us offensively,” rees said. “[Folston] ran hard and took care of the ball. He didn’t play like a freshman tonight. He played like a guy who really knew what was going on out there.” 
Not including the go-ahead touchdown run, the freshman back had only two carries on which he did not gain at least three yards and averaged 7.8 yards per rush. 
“[Folston] was able to make some people miss and get some 
Now, junior linebacker ben councell is wiped out for the year with a knee injury and the Irish defensive front is as thin as it has ever been. councell was forced to play as a down lineman on saturday even though he is supposed to be dropping into coverage and not into the ground. 
by the end of the game saturday evening, Notre Dame had pieced together a front seven that included seldom-used graduate student tyler stockton. they were without councell, Louis Nix, sheldon Day, Kona schwenke, Ishaq tough yards,” rees said, “I’m re­ally happy for the kid. I think he’s got the right attitude to keep moving forward and keep work­ing hard for us. I think he can be a pretty good player for us down the road.” 
the young Irish back will con­tinue down that road saturday, when Notre Dame will travel to Pittsburgh to take on the Panthers. 
“everybody’s time comes,” Folston said. “I feel like my time came [on saturday]. all I can do, or the team can do, is just con­tinue to work hard and prepare for Pitt.” 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
Williams, Jarrett Grace, tony springmann, chase Hounshell, Danny spond and any sem­blance of the 2012 defense. 
they are going to need to find the defense from a few games ago in order to win out and punch their tickets to the bcs. 
and if this Navy game is any indication, they are close to waving goodbye to the bcs. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Jones climbs the ranks 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports Writer 
Irish senior receiver tJ Jones pulled down four receptions for 111 yards and a touchdown against Navy. He became only the 10th Notre Dame receiver to surpass the 2,000-yard mark for his career, moved into eighth place on the Irish career touch­down reception list with 17 and also moved into fourth place on the Irish career reception list with 159. 
Jones also has recorded a reception in 36 consecutive games and a touchdown recep­tion in six consecutive games. 

Making their mark 
over the last four games, Irish junior tight end ben Koyack has accounted for three touchdowns after not scoring through the first 29 games of his career. 
through the first eight games of the season, Irish freshman running back tarean Folston gained 116 yards on the ground and did not score a touchdown. on saturday, Folston scored his first career touchdown and ran for 140 yards. He is the first freshman to rush for 100 yards since robert Hughes against stanford in 2007. 
Punt free 
on saturday, the Irish did not punt once. It was the fifth time in its last nine meetings that Notre Dame did not punt against Navy. In their last 616 offensive plays against the midshipmen, the Irish have only punted seven times. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 

SCORING SUMMARY 






1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  13  0  14  34  
10  7  7  14  38  

NOTRE DAME 7, NAVY 0 
George atkinson 41-yard run (brindza kick) 
12:12 remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 67 yards, 2:48 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 7, NAVY 7 
Keenan reynolds 2-yard run (sloan kick) 
7:32 remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 56 yards, 4:40 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 10, NAVY 7 
Kyle brindza 26-yard field goal 
4:57 remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 67 yards, 2:35 elapsed 
NAVY 14, NOTRE DAME 10 
chris swain 11-yard run (sloan kick) 
8:04remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 77 yards, 4:55 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 17, NAVY 14 
tJ Jones 36-yard pass from rees (brindza kick) 
6:18remaining 

Drive: Four plays, 73 yards, 1:46 elapsed 
NAVY 20, NOTRE DAME 17 
Keenan reynolds 3-yard run (sloan kick failed) 
2:07remaining 

Drive: 11 plays, 75 yards, 4:11 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 24, NAVY 20 
ben Koyack 17-yard pass from rees (brindza kick) 
6:25remaining 

Drive: 11 plays, 84 yards, 4:37 elapsed 
NAVY 27, NOTRE DAME 24 
Keenan reynolds 4-yard run (sloan kick) 
14:56remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 75 yards, 6:29 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 31, NAVY 27 
cam mcDaniel 4-yard run (brindza kick) 
12:51remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 76 yards, 2:05 elapsed 
NAVY 34, NOTRE DAME 31 
matt aiken 34-yard pass from reynolds (sloan kick) 
8:55remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 70 yards, 3:56 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 38, NAVY 34 
tarean Folston 1-yard run (brindza kick) 
3:47remaining 

Drive: 11 plays, 76 yards, 5:08 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 

331 264 
PASSING YARDS 

88 242 

Time of Possession 

Time of Possession 
22:24 37:36 
PASSING 

Rees 12-20-242 Reynolds 6-9-88 
RUSHING 

Folston 18-140 Swain 16-85 Atkinson 7-74 Singleton 16-77 

tHe obserVer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2013 | NDsmcobserVer.com 


WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish junior running back Cam McDaniel sprints down the sideline during Notre Dame’s 38-34 win over Navy on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. McDaniel was part of an Irish ground game that racked up 264 yards. Notre Dame improved to 7-2 with the win. 
Notre Dame managed to put away Navy, 38-34, and improve to 7-2 
on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish totaled 506 yards of offense and averaged 9.0 yards per play (their best since 1998), as the 
NEAR NIGHTMARE 
offense bailed out a depleted defense that had no answers for Navy’s option attack. Tarean Folston broke out, and defensive youngsters like 
VS. NAVY 
Jaylon Smith and Eilar Hardy made stops when needed. 






By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

The new album “The marshall mathers lp 2” is like the long-anticipated sequel to a summer action blockbuster. it’s bigger, has greater production value, and is crazier than the first one, but it definitely is not taking any huge risks or pushing the genre forward, taking stan’s fans back to exactly where they were 13 years ago.  This is an album seeped in nostalgia, which is stale at times but gives off overwhelm­ingly positive vibes. 
The album kicks off with “bad guy” and dives headfirst into classic, raw eminem. “bad guy” is a very cool throw­back to the hit “stan” from the original marshall mathers lp, featuring neat introspections from the viewpoint of the ficti­tious stan’s little brother. 
eminem is absolutely one of the most talented rappers in the industry, and that definitely shows on “mmlp2”. The most notable example of this is in “rap god,” which is by far one of the best songs eminem has made within the past de­cade. The speed and intensity of the rapping on this track is absolutely amazing. The rhymes are delivered at a ferocious pace and ruthlessly strike on anyone he pleases. at one point slim shady hits an average of 6.5 words per second, definitely giving his self-proclaimed title of rap god some credibility. 
The only problem with this album is that a couple of songs are flops, blunders that definitely should not have made the final cut of an overall great album. eminem’s collaboration with rihanna in “The monster” honestly feels like a disap­pointing rehash of their work together on “love the way you lie,” and brings nothing new to either the pop or hip-hop genres. 
if “The monster” is ignored, the collaborations on “mmlp2” are overwhelmingly enjoyable. “headlights,” fea­turing nate reuss of indie band fun., is one of the weirdest, least expected partnerships in music, but it is a successful blending of two dissimilar styles. eminem raps and nate sings about eminem’s rocky relationship with his mother, and eminem for once actually tones down the anger to apol­ogize to her. a joint effort with kendrick lamar would seem like a more predictable choice for eminem, yet “love game” is one of the weirdest tracks he’s produced. The song is bi­zarre, raunchy and downright disgusting at times, but the connection eminem and kendrick share and the fun they have is absolutely contagious. 
The throwback tracks on “mmlp2” are also incredibly fun. “rhyme or reason” brilliantly mixes a sample from “Time of the season” by the Zombies into the witty, crafty lyrics that eminem is known for. when the song asks “who’s your daddy?” slim bluntly responds, “i don’t have one/my mother reproduced like a komodo dragon.” “berzerk” is an exciting tribute to old school hip-hop. produced by rick rubin, who worked with the beastie boys on their debut album “licensed to ill,” it mashes together samples from billy squier’s “The stroke” and the beastie boys’ “Fight for your right” and “The new style.” on this track, eminem is arrogant, brash and full of that swagger that has been so des­perately missed over his past few releases. it’s a great return to basics that screams to the world that eminem can still rock all these years later. 

overall, “The marshall mathers lp 2” is a great throwback album. it does not push the hip-hop genre forward into a new era, but it does not need to, because of the high value of the sheer intensity, brutality and creativity in the album. em reignites the original mmlp’s savage, emotional brilliance in a whirlwind of stinging raps, wise-cracking rhymes and aggressive rhymes in a way that shows the rap world that he is still king. 
“The marshall mathers lp 2” will be released nov. 3. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“The Marshall Mathers LP 2” 
Eminem 

Label: Aftermath Entertainment, Shady Records, Interscope Records Tracks: “Love Game,” “Berzerk” If you like: Kanye West, Jay-Z 


By JUAN CANCIO 
scene editor 

on nov. 1, netflix released a brand new aziz ansari comedy special. our favorite man-child is at it again in his new special entitled “aziz ansari: buried alive,” but this time he added some not-so-hidden messages in his standup routine. aziz makes some of his possibly con­troversial opinions perfectly clear in jokes about adult relationships, bullying and even gay marriage. although aziz is no doubt a hysterical comedian, there are times in his new special where he dwells on issues that he obvi­ously finds important. as many of the most talented co­medians, aziz is able to sneak in little nuggets of serious sincerity between his funniest jokes thereby guarantee­ing you do more than just laugh. 
aziz opens his comedy show by talking about how ri­diculous all his friends are now that they have children; much like anything else in our lives, aziz points out that his friends have felt the need to record every second of their baby’s new life. of course, aziz, being the man he is, laughs at the mere thought of having children and all the sacrifice it entails. he reveals to us the audience that he cannot even understand how couples get married, let alone choose to have children. 
he swiftly changes the focus of his jokes from the dif­ficulties of choosing to bring life into the world to the dif­ficulties that come with being responsible for another human being. while on the subject of children and tak­ing care of them, there is a lighthearted detour through how his mom would always let him go alone anywhere he wanted and how by extension he explains, while stay­ing true to his sardonic style, that he “should have been molested, like…all the time.” Then he digresses once again to the difficulties of raising children, particularly in a world where bullies have somehow grown to be de­mented little demons that say insanely hurtful things. 
after harping on childhood, he moves on to the “insane proposition” of marriage. now here there is a bit of beauty to the way he chose to organize his act; if you have paid at­tention, you will realize that aziz has moved through the progression of his show much the way we move through life. This is not to say however that you should expect an overly mature outlook on life. if anything, aziz is poking fun at life and its many gradations with his artfully witty immature sarcasm. 

some of the punch lines of his routine attest to his be­lief that anyone against gay marriage is seriously anti­quated and he even asks “how do [they] not know [they are] on the losing team right now?” he draws parallels between those who are opposed to this new contro­versial subject and those before our time who opposed things like women’s suffrage and basic human rights for african americans. 
undoubtedly, the problem with trying to explain how funny a comedy show can be is that the magic that makes jokes so funny is immediately lost when the jokes are pulled out of context. instead, it would probably be wiser to leave some of the show as a mystery and bait you into watching and judging for yourself. There is definitely some comedic brilliance in his characteristic style that is difficult to duplicate but all too easy to admire. even if you don’t watch for the interesting opinions expressed in his show, you might find yourself attracted by the five-minute bit on the finer points of taking the right picture of male genitalia. either way, go see the show on your friend’s netflix account. 
Contact Juan Cancio at jcancio@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Finding sports’ silver linings 

Mary Green 
sports writer 
“Justin blackmon to enter re­hab.” “Jonathan martin fears retri­bution.”  “meriweather vows to go after knees.” 
This is a sampling of some of the sports headlines i’ve read over the past few days. They all reflect controversy in sports, with players bullying teammates, trying to play against the rules or just not being the best people they can be. 
i will be the first to admit con­troversy fuels journalism — we de­bate it, discuss it and break down every aspect of it. sometimes, journalists even add to it, and then we debate it all some more. 
but sometimes we, sports fans and journalists alike, get lost in the chaos of controversy and forget about the people who quietly do what is right. 
we are four days into november and approaching Thanksgiving, so it is time we give thanks for all the good people in sports. 
i’d first like to thank all the men and women who competed yes­terday in one of the most grueling events in all of sports, the new york city marathon. i think 26.2 miles is a long drive, so i can’t imagine what it would be like to run that distance, without a break, up and down hills and all over the place. 
it’s always nice to win, so con­gratulations to men’s and women’s winners geoffrey mutai and priscah Jeptoo for taking first place in their respective events. but in an event like a marathon, every­one who crosses the finish line is a winner in my book, so congrats to the rest of the field as well for fighting through fatigue and de­hydration and showing the rest of us what it means to persevere to reach a goal. Thanks, marathon runners around the world. 
hats off to larry Fitzgerald for growing his dreads out. The cardinals receiver stopped cutting his hair in 2003 to honor his moth­er, who died the same year from breast cancer and wore her hair in the same style. Fitzgerald makes statements every sunday with his otherworldly skills on the field, but he makes an even bigger statement by staying out of controversy and making headlines for the charita­ble work he does for breast cancer awareness. 
This year, he pledged to donate 25 cents for every new follower, $1,000 for every catch and $10,000 for every touchdown he had in the month of october, breast cancer awareness month. he had 15 receptions, two touchdowns and too many followers for me to count during that month, making a do­nation of at least $35,000. Thanks, larry. 
kudos to richard sherman for talking trash to challenge his hometown friends to reach their potential. in a cover story from July on the seahawks cornerback, sports illustrated’s lee Jenkins wrote, “according to [sherman’s high school coach, keith] donerson, eight players from sherman’s graduating class earned scholarships to division i schools, several of whom had walked into the coach’s office at one point or another to ask, ‘how do i get into college? because if i don’t, sherm is never going to let me hear the end of it.’” 
keep in mind, sherman grew up in compton, calif., where a col­lege education could mean a ticket out of one of america’s roughest towns. The fast-talking defen­sive back certainly realized that, graduating from stanford in three years and capitalizing on his op­portunity to attend college while pushing his teammates to do the same. Thanks, richard. 
special recognition goes to late yankees owner george steinbrenner for not caring what anyone thought of him. when you mention steinbrenner, most people think of “The boss,” the intense, hot-tempered, no-non­sense tyrant of the bronx bombers who infamously hired and fired manager billy martin five times and led the regimented, militarily-groomed yankees organization to seven world series titles. 
but not many people think of the other side of steinbrenner, the one who donated millions of dollars to organizations in new york and Tampa, the home of both steinbrenner and his team’s spring training. 
each year, steinbrenner and the yankees hosted a luncheon benefiting the boys & girls club in Tampa, one of the owner’s favorite charities, and the event raised over $300,000 annually. he founded and funded the gold shield Foundation in seven Florida counties and the silver shield Foundation in new york, which provide aid to the families of fire­fighters and police officers killed in the line of duty. 
That side of The boss isn’t al­ways what comes to mind at the mention of his name. but for those of us who grew up in Tampa and new york, we know a hard exterior doesn’t always mean a hard heart. Thanks, mr. steinbrenner. 
and thanks to everyone else in the sports world who visits the troops instead of spending a night in jail, who donates to cancer re­search centers instead of buying drugs, who helps make a differ­ence in the world instead of con­tributing to its chaos. 
hopefully, one day, you’ll take over the headlines for all the right reasons. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Foles has record day in Eagles victory 
Associated Press 
oakland — nick Foles’ record-setting performance turned a struggling eagles offense into an unstoppable machine. 
Foles tied an nFl mark with seven touchdown passes and threw for 406 yards to revi­talize philadelphia in a 49­20 victory over the oakland raiders on sunday. 
The backup quarterback connected three times with riley cooper to become the seventh passer in nFl his­tory with seven Td tosses in a game. peyton manning did it for denver on open­ing night this season against baltimore. 
Foles also threw scoring passes to brent celek, Zach ertz, lesean mccoy and desean Jackson as the eagles (4-5) looked nothing the of­fense that failed to score a touchdown in each of the past two weeks. 
The raiders (3-5) had ap­peared much improved on defense in recent weeks but were completely flummoxed by coach chip kelly’s spread offense that stalled recently after a fast debut in the nFl. 
Foles completed 22 of 28 passes as he frequently ex­ploited mismatches and blown coverages, starting with a 42-yard screen pass to cooper on the opening drive when the raiders had two defenders trying to match up with three receivers. 
mccoy took a short pass and ran 25 yards untouched for his score in the third quar­ter and Jackson raced past mike Jenkins on his 46-yard touchdown later in the third. 
Foles then tied the re­cord with a 5-yard pass to cooper with 4:28 remaining in the third quarter, match­ing the mark also held by sid luckman, adrian burk, george blanda, y.a. Tittle and Joe kapp. 
with more than a quarter to go to break the record, Foles was unable to get the eagles back into the end zone on the next two drives before be­ing replaced by matt barkley. That was about all Foles couldn’t do in his first game since being held to 80 yards on 29 passes before leaving with a concussion two weeks ago against dallas. 
Foles only got another shot this week because regular starter michael vick reinjured his hamstring in a loss to the new york giants last week. but now, it will be tough to take out Foles with 13 touch­down passes and no intercep­tions this season. 
This will also silence ques­tions at least for a week about how kelly’s offense will translate to the nFl. viewed as revolutionary when the eagles gained 322 yards in the first half of the season opener against washington, the offense had been held to 478 yards and one field goal the past two weeks before breaking through against the raiders. 

The raiders couldn’t keep up with philadelphia’s torrid scoring pace despite gaining 560 yards — their third-most ever and most since 1968. They had one first-quarter drive stall in the red zone for a field goal and then couldn’t play catch up in the second half when the eagles turned a 28-13 halftime lead into a blowout. 
raiders quarterback Terrelle pryor threw for 288 yards and ran for 94 more, but also had two intercep­tions and took two sacks in a shaky performance. he left the game in the fourth quar­ter with a knee injury and was being evaluated further. 
Kansas City 23, Buffalo 13 
buFFalo — chiefs cor­nerback sean smith was ex­hausted after he returned an interception 100 yards for a touchdown. 
“i was definitely happy i made it,” smith said. “i want­ed to celebrate, but i was too tired.” 
smith’s interception and linebacker Tamba hali’s 11-yard fumble return for a touchdown aided the chiefs in overcoming a pedestrian offense and their own leaky defense in securing a 23-13 win over the buffalo bills on sunday. 
kansas city (9-0) remained the nFl’s only undefeated team and matched the best start in franchise history set in 2003. The chiefs now enter their bye week before a key aFc west showdown against the denver broncos (7-1) on nov. 17. 
if the only thing perfect about the chiefs is their record so far, coach andy reid refuses to make any apologies. 
“we’re not going to make excuses for it,” said reid, who in his first year has the chiefs continuing their worst-to­first run after a 2-14 finish last season. “we’re pretty happy that we got the touchdowns. we’ll take them any way we can get them.” 
The chiefs’ defense led the way, outscoring the alex smith-led offense, which was limited to three field goals. and the defense had to com­pensate for its own problems in having difficulty contain­ing a buffalo offense headed by Jeff Tuel, an undrafted rookie making his first career start. 
despite allowing a season-worst 470 yards of offense and 25 first downs, the chiefs were opportunistic in hold­ing their ninth consecutive opponent to 17 points or less to match an nFl record set by the 1977 atlanta Falcons. 
smith’s interception turned the momentum, tying the score at 10. hali then put the chiefs ahead for good by scooping up T.J. graham’s fumble — forced by corner­back marcus cooper — and running it in to put kansas city ahead 20-13 with 12:47 left. 
“we don’t really care what people think,” hali said of the chiefs’ victories lacking style points. “sometimes the stats don’t really tell you the outcome.” 
Tell that to the bills (3-6), who were left stunned and frustrated in attempting to figure out how they let this one slip away. 
“horrible,” offensive coor­dinator nathaniel hackett said. “it was shocking even to our guys. we did everything we wanted. we just couldn’t finish it.” 
The difference was turn­overs, as the chiefs turned buffalo’s three giveaways — two interceptions thrown by Tuel and graham’s fumble — into 17 points. 
The loss marred what be­gan as a solid outing by Tuel, who became the third quar­terback to start for buffalo this season. 
Tuel’s 139 yards passing in the first half were the most by a bills quarterback in the first two quarters this sea­son. and Tuel was in a posi­tion to improve his numbers after marching buffalo to the kansas city 1 on the opening drive of the second half be­fore his day went awry. 
Facing third-and-goal, Tuel took a shotgun snap, and looked immediately to his right, where graham was running a slant pattern. Tuel, however, failed to account for smith, who easily picked off the pass at the goal line and then took off up the left sideline. 
Tuel finished 18 of 39 for 229 yards passing, and a 59­yard touchdown to marquise goodwin. 
For kansas city, smith completed 19 of 29 passes for just 124 yards. running back Jamaal charles was held under 100 yards from scrim­mage for the first time this season. 
kansas city also snapped a six-game losing streak at orchard park that included two playoff losses, winning there for the first time since sept. 28, 1986. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


ND CROSS COUNTRY ND VOLLEYBALL | nd 3, maryland 1; nd 3, piTTsburgh 2 
Irish finish in top 5 in ACC nd wins pair in 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
in notre dame’s inaugural acc championships, held at beeson park in kernersville, n.c., the irish impressed with third- and fourth-place fin­ishes for the men and women, respectively. 
For the irish men, senior martin grady and gradu­ate student Jeremy rae both earned all-acc honors with their fifth- and 11th-place fin­ishes in the men’s 8-kilometer race. grady stayed with the lead group from the beginning of the race, faltering just a bit down the homestretch but still crossing the finish line with a time of 24:13.2, 36 seconds behind the first place finisher. rae came in a few seconds af­ter grady with a time of 24:21.8. 
senior J.p. mallette (24:46.9) finished 26th, while sophomore michael clevenger (24:47.6) finished in 27th. sophomore Tim ball, competing in his first varsity race of the year, round­ed out the irish top five with a time of 24:56.3, good for 36th place in the 129-runner field. 
with all seven runners in the top 25, no. 14 syracuse ran away with the men’s crown with a final tally of 64 points. no. 18 north carolina placed second with 84 points on the strength of four top-20 finishers. The 23rd-ranked irish finished with 105 points in their third-place effort. nc state senior andrew colley took the individual men’s title with a time of 23:37.9. 

For the irish women, coach Tim connolly said he had mixed feelings regard­ing his runners’ individual performances. 
“we had some really good performances, but we also had a few girls that struggled,” connolly said. “it wasn’t be­cause of poor effort or any­thing like that. The girls were competing hard. a few just didn’t run the race i know they’re capable of.” 
however, connolly did not suggest his team had failed to meet expectations in their first acc championships. 
”i expected Florida state and virginia to be very competi­tive, and they were just that, finishing one-two,” connolly said. “coming from the big east, this was obviously a new experience, but i thought we could be really competitive as well. like i already said, we had a couple sub-par races, but the result was about what i expected.” 
The fifth-ranked seminoles, who finished 13 points clear of no. 10 virginia with 52 points, were sparked by a pair of top-five finishes from juniors 
paid adverTisemenT 
colleen Quigley and hannah walker, while the cavaliers 

home stand 
had four top-15 finishers. The 22nd-ranked irish tallied 124 points. 
irish senior kelly curran and junior hannah eckstein paced the irish with 16th and 20th place finishes, respec­tively, both earning all-acc honors. curran finished the 6-kilometer race in 20:55.8 while eckstein clocked in at 
21:08.7. Those two, however, were not the only runners to receive praise from connolly. 
“i was impressed with [eckstein’s] race, but i was even more impressed with [sophomore] mollie seidel. she’s been dealing with train­ing injuries for the past month or so and wasn’t in the best racing shape, but to see her come out and run the race that she did was impressive. hopefully in the next couple weeks we can get her into bet­ter racing shape as we look for­ward to these next meets.” 
seidel finished 26th with a time of 21:23.1. 
next the irish will attempt to qualify for the ncaa championships as they head to madison, wis., on nov. 15 for the ncaa great lakes regionals. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu. 


By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
The irish swept their home series over the week­end, defeating maryland 3-1 on Friday and battling pitt in five sets sunday before snatching a 3-2 victory. 
against maryland (12-12, 4-8 acc), the irish (10-13, 4-8) took control offensive­ly. notre dame had 54 kills and had four players with 10 or more kills apiece. 
The irish battled with the Terrapins in the first set, but weren’t able to secure the victory and fell 25-21. in the second set, notre dame led until the score was 22-21, but fell behind 24-23. an er­ror by the Terrapins allowed the irish to tie the score at 24 and closed out the set with a 27-25 victory. Their momentum carried through to the third set, as the irish pulled ahead early and nev­er looked back, winning 25­21 and bringing the score to 2-1. 
To close out the match, the irish battled with the Terrapins through 13 ties and five lead changes before finally winning the set 25-23 and claiming the 3-1 victory. 
against pitt (12-13, 4-8), the irish had another long battle. notre dame fell behind early in the first set, scoring only 13 points against the panthers and dropping the set 25-13. in the second set, the irish tied the game at one, battling through two lead changes and five ties for a 25-22 win. 
The irish fell behind once more in the third set, lead­ing the game only once be­fore pitt took over, winning the game handily at 25-17. 
The irish were not able to turn their luck around until the fourth set. irish senior outside hitter nicole smith said the fourth set was a turning point for the irish. 

“we really came together in the fourth set,” smith said. “we knew that we had to win it. we fought really well together and we were having a lot of fun.” 
The fourth set consisted of 17 ties and five lead chang­es, but notre dame endured and won the set 25-22 to tie the score at two. 
in the final set, the irish buckled down and took control early on, never re­linquishing the lead and winning the final set 15-9. 
“i thought the fifth set we were all very focused,” smith said. “i have a lot of confidence in my team­mates and we started the fifth set really strong.” 
smith recorded 12 kills during the game and a team-high four blocks. she said her success and the suc­cess of her teammates was due to senior setter maggie brindock. 
“maggie was making ex­tremely good decisions with her sets,” smith said. “The passers really stepped up to get her the ball and it made it really easy for us to get kills.” 
smith said much of the irish success also depended on notre dame’s ability to stop the pitt hitters. 
“They had some really good hitters on each end,” smith said. “we were get­ting stuck when they were hitting and their outsides were attacking quickly. our defense did really well in adjusting and picking up the sets.” 
The irish are back in ac­tion on wednesday when they travel to syracuse for another conference match. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND SWIMMING AND DIVING | purdue 209, noTre dame 98 
Irish see positives in performance at Purdue 

By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
The no. 22 irish took to the water on Friday seeking to end a decade of road losses purdue in the boilermaker aquatic center. notre dame (1-3) was unable to translate solid times into scoreboard success, fall­ing to the boilermakers (1-0) 208-98. 
“if you don’t look at the score, i think we swam very well against a very tough purdue team,” irish coach Tim welsh said. “we had a lot of top times. in swimming there are two kinds of excellence: excel­lence of time and excellence of place. on Friday we definitely had an excellence of time.” 
notre dame started the meet with a disqualifica­tion in the 200-yard medley relay. The irish would have fin­ished first and put notre dame in an early hole from which the team would never recover. 
“That disqualifica­tion really took the air out of our tires right from the start, especially because we would have won. but i am really not discouraged from Friday. everything is a work in prog­ress and this team is progres­
sively  getting  better  each  
week,” welsh said.  
Friday’s  dual  meet  

was not without its share of individual success for the 
irish. senior Frank dyer took first in the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 1:38.64, and junior mike nappi won the 1,650 yard-freestyle, clock­ing in at 15:48.15. dyer, an all-american, nearly added another first-place finish for the irish, finishing a mere .10 behind purdue freshman Filip bujoczek in the 500-yard freestyle. 
“In swimming there are two kinds of excellence: excellence of time and excellence of place. On Friday we definitely had an excellence of time.” 
Tim Welsh 
Irish head coach 
The team was hoping to build off its success after spending the fall break train­ing in colorado. culminating with a 134-128 victory against air Force on oct. 25, the week afforded the irish the unique opportunity to train at high altitudes. 
“overall, that was a grand experience, really posi­tive all the way around,” welsh said. “i think we will continue to reap the benefits of that conditioning for the rest of the season.” 
on the diving boards, freshman Joseph coumos continued his early-season success, finishing second in both the 1-meter and 3-me­ter boards. in only his sec­ond meet of his collegiate career, cuomos nearly took first for the irish in the 1-meter board, finishing with a score of 363.60 points, right behind boilermaker layne rogers’ winning mark of 365.55 points. 
The irish will con­tinue their campaign this weekend at the Trees pool in pittsburgh, where they will open acc competition in a tri­meet against pittsburgh and virginia Tech. The meet will mark the third consecutive weekend in which the irish have been on the road. notre dame will finally return to the rolfs aquatic center for their first home meet in more that a month on nov. 15, when it takes on michigan state. 
“our schedule is a re­ally challenging one,” welsh said. “every week has a tough opponent. next weekend, we are on the road again, facing a much improved pittsburgh and a virginia Tech team that is one of the strongest in the acc,” welsh said. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

belles face Trine to close season 
Staff Report 
The belles will wrap up their season today with a home game against miaa opponent Trine. 
last time the belles (9-7-3, 7-5-3 miaa) met Trine (2-16, 1-14) on Trine’s home field, they won 1-0 in a nail-biting double-overtime match. 
The belles stand in fifth place in the miaa confer­ence and were mathemati­cally eliminated from the miaa conference cham­pionships in late october. Trine has also failed to qual­ify for the miaa conference championships and stands in last place in the miaa conference. only the top four squads will compete in the end of season conference tournament. 
against Trine, the belles will rely on players such as freshman forward rosie biehl, junior forward kelly wilson and sophomore mid­fielder maggie mclaughlin. 
biehl is the belles lead goal scorer with five goals this season. wilson and mclaughlin come in second and third for goal scoring with three and two goals, re­spectively, while each add­ing an assist on the season. 
The belles will also look for a strong performance between the pipes from ju­nior goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum. rosenbaum has had a total of 76 saves this season, with a save percentage of 78.8 percent. rosenbaum has faced 166 
shots  in  16  appearances,  
including  15  starts,  this  
season.  

The belles will have to de­fend Trine’s top scorer soph­omore skyler reed in order to come out with a win. reed has scored three goals this season and has added three assists. 
The belles will kick off their final game of the sea­son today at 3 p.m. by wel­coming in Trine. 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Saint Mary’s claims third 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The belles finished just two points ahead of alma to edge the scots out of third place and claimed the third-place title for themselves at the miaa championships on saturday at the west ottawa golf club in holland, mich. 
The belles culminated the sea­son in third place in the final miaa standings to match the 2010 team with the best finish in program history. saint mary’s also had five individual runners earn personal-record times at the meet saturday. 
The belles completed the race with an overall score of 102. no. 5 calvin and no. 2 hope finished ahead of saint mary’s with scores of 21 and 26, respectively. alma finished fourth with 104 points. 
“[saturday] was such a great day,” head coach Jackie bauters said. “The entire team ran well. it matches the highest overall place we have finished in the conference. 
“i’m extremely proud of every­one and their effort on the course.” 
senior Jessica biek again led the way for the belles. biek placed ninth overall and ran a personal-record time of 22:46. 
Following the conclusion of the race, biek became the sixth run­ner in program history to earn all­miaa honors. she earned a spot on the second team for her finishes at the miaa Jamboree on sept. 28 and the championship race. 
“i am so excited to see her reach her goal of breaking into the top 10,” bauters said. “she made the second all-miaa team, and she is the first belle to do so in a good handful of years.” 
biek’s time marks the second-fastest finish by a saint mary’s runner in the conference cham­pionship, behind megan gray and her 22:18 time at the 2007 miaa championships. 
“[biek] has been primed for that kind of race and just needed to trust that it was possible,” bauters said. “she ran a really smart race, letting the lead pack take it out and sit back a little until the second half of the race. she was running about 16th place for most the race and then made her move.” 
The remaining members of the belles’ squad also contributed strong individual performances to help secure the team’s third-place finish. 
belles freshman brittany beeler ran a season-best pace of 23:08 and finished in 15th place. sophomore allie danhof (24:03), sophomore katelyn dunn (24:15), and senior colette curtis (24:28) all ran personal-record times to assist the belles in their third-place finish. 
The veteran curtis’ strong per­formance and 29th-place finish impressed bauters. 
“as a senior, she had her lifetime [personal record] in the 6k and ran fifth for the team, definitely help­ing us beat alma in the final stand­ings,” bauters said. 
Junior erin knauf also ran her best time of the season with a 
24:34 for 30th place, and junior samee chittenden finished 32nd with her personal record time of 24:41. 
Following the conclusion of the conference schedule, the belles will prepare to end their season at the ncaa regionals on nov. 16. 
“our focus [heading into this race] is going to be on staying healthy and getting a few final quality workouts in before the regional,” bauters said. “i’m sure it’s going to be an excited group again.” 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 



ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING | purdue 155.5, noTre dame 144.5 
notre dame falls to purdue in close competition 

By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
notre dame lost in heart­breaking fashion for the second-straight meet, this time suffering a 155.5-144.5 loss to purdue. 
in the team’s last meet on oct. 12, the irish (0-3) lost to indiana at home by just 10 points. coupled with their sea­son-opening loss to auburn and this latest defeat to purdue (2­0), notre dame finds itself still looking for the first win of the young season. 
despite the winless start to the year, irish junior swimmer emma reaney said the team’s slow start is not cause for panic yet. 
“[i’m] not very concerned,” reaney said. “yes, it isn’t fun to lose, but we have to keep our eyes on the end of the season and conference. That’s when win­ning and losing really matters.” 
although she said these early season meets are not as impor­tant as the later ones, reaney admitted that the loss is still frustrating. 
“The past couple years have come down to the last relay (the 200-yard freestyle relay) and we didn’t want that to happen again,” reaney said. “i thought we had for sure done better go­ing into that relay than years past, but unfortunately that wasn’t the case.” 
The boilermakers have won the event in three out of the last four years by 11 points or less. even though the irish lost, reaney said she was still was pleased with several elements of the meet. 
“i feel the first half of the meet went very well,” reaney said. “we focused a lot on not only winning events, but touching purdue out for second, third, and fourth. i was really proud of our backstrokers getting one, two, and three in the [200-yard backstroke]. Toward the end of the meet we let a couple crucial races get away from us.” 
reaney said she agreed with irish coach brian barnes’ as­sessment that the team has trouble closing out meets, and added that winning these close meets is all in the little things. 
“we have to keep working on the small details that put races together,” reaney said. “we also have to keep the energy up that we have at the beginning of the meets throughout the whole thing. meets are long and tir­ing and we have to find a way to keep pushing ourselves and each other all the way to the very end.” 
reaney herself had anoth­er impressive meet, claiming three of the eight irish victories in the 200-yard freestyle, 100­yard breaststroke, and 200-yard breaststroke. even though she led her team in individual vic­tories, reaney said she was still not completely happy with her performance. 
“i definitely think my sprint breaststroke could be a little better,” reaney said. “i am work­ing on my long stroke and when i’m tired it’s much easier to stay long and strong and hard to get up and sprint. but for where we are in the season and how hard we’ve been working, i’m satisfied with my races.” 
in addition to reaney’s three individual victories, four other irish swimmers claimed individ­ual victories. senior kelly ryan won the 200-yard backstroke, freshman catherine mulquin won the 100-yard backstroke, freshman katie miller won the 200-yard individual medley and junior diver allison casareto took the 1-meter diving event. notre dame also won the 200­yard medley relay with the foursome of mulquin, reaney, ryan, and sophomore catherine galletti finishing with a time of 1:42.43. 
reaney said she was pleased with her teammates’ perfor­mance given how drained the team was entering the meet. 
“i know we are really tired, so keeping that in mind, i think we swam well,” reaney said. “we had really good energy going into the meet and i definitely think that helped us in the first half.” 
in order to get that elusive first win of the season, reaney said it all comes down to attention to detail and doing the little things right. 
“we have to work on the little things,” reaney said. “we have the grit and the strength, but we lost a couple races due to fin­ishes and turns. and those small things really add up when meets get close like this one was.” 
Contact Alex Wilcox at               awilcox1@nd.edu 
Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
we didn’t put our heads down once we got down 2-0. we hung around and hung around and found our way into the game again.” 
The catamounts scored an early goal and added a second with less than a minute re­maining in the opening period to take an early 2-0 lead over the irish. vermont sophomore forward robert polesello beat summerhays with a wrist shot through traffic to the left post for the first score 2:41 into the con­test, while senior h.T. lenz beat summerhays top shelf with 43 seconds remaining in the first. 
irish senior defenseman stephen Johns cut the lead in half on a coast-to-coast effort 2:51 into the second stanza. Johns beat a vermont defenseman and ticked a backhander past santaguida to make the game 2-1. 
“it was a great goal from [Johns],” Jackson said. “his goal gave us some life and kept us in the game.” 
sophomore left wing sam herr then took over in the third period with a two-goal effort within the span of 1:02. 13:18 into the final period, herr beat santaguida over his right shoulder to tie the game at 2-2. at 14:20, on a similar setup, herr received the puck on the left wing and beat santaguida low to the right post. 
“[herr] was playing pretty well early on, so i started double shifting him a bit,” Jackson said. “The additional ice time got his juices going and he responded in a positive way. he got the puck to the net and he was rewarded.” 
santaguida racked up 24 saves on saturday, while summerhays had 26. 
The irish next face off against no. 1 minnesota with a week­end doubleheader at compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at                   ilorton@nd.edu 


M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 

performance [for cicciarelli].”       wake Forest pressed in the second half, but to no avail. 
“it was great defending by the team,” clark said. “The team defended superbly well as a unit. [wake Forest] came out with a big push at the begin­ning of the second half, but we did a great job stopping it.” 
irish senior goalkeeper patrick wall played a big part in notre dame’s defensive suc­cess, clark said. wall had seven saves on the night while fac­ing 18 shots, 13 of which came in the second half, from the demon deacons. Ferrell had two saves saturday.  
“pat wall has been perfect on the year,” clark said. “he made some great saves in the second half and gave us the chance to win.” 
in the 68th minute, irish sophomore midfielder connor klekota scored his first career goal from right outside of the penalty box to give the irish the 3-1 lead and shut down the wake Forest surge. 
The irish closed out the game and held a man advantage for the final 16 minutes, as demon deacons senior midfielder Jared watts received a red card at 74:04 in the match.  
“now put ourselves in a posi­tion, if we beat pittsburgh, to win the [acc],” clark said. “it would be an amazing feat to win the acc, arguably one of the best leagues in the nation, in our first year.” 
The irish next face non-con­ference foe no. 22 michigan state in east lansing at 3 p.m. on Tuesday.   
Contact Isaac Lorton at                     ilorton@nd.edu 


M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
atkins said. 
The most exciting play of the tune-up against the division-ii pioneers, who went 6-21 a season ago, came early in the second half when atkins, falling down after a steal in the backcourt, flipped the ball backward over his head down court to knight for a dunk. atkins said he saw knight out of the corner of his eye as he fell. 
“i got the steal right away and i kind of tripped over the guy’s foot … and i just knew i could throw it behind me,” atkins said. 
in addition to knight and atkins, two other irish start­ers also had strong perfor­mances. senior center garrick sherman had the game’s lone double-double as he finished with 12 points and 13 re­bounds and junior forward pat connaughton went 3-for-6 from 3-point range and scored 14 points. starting senior guard Jerian grant struggled from the floor, meanwhile, shooting just 1-of-8. 
Freshman guard demetrius Jackson joined atkins, knight, connaughton and sherman in double figures, as he compiled 10 points. 
with the contest against the overmatched pioneers complete, the irish now look ahead to their first game of the regular season against the redhawks at the end of the week. 
Contact Sam Gans at             sgans@nd.edu 


W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
one went the way it did. we had to drop a forward back in the midfield to give us a fourth mid­fielder and just play with one [forward] up front. really, you’re just sitting there hoping you can kill off the clock and maybe get into penalty kicks.” 
virginia Tech dominated pos­session after Tucker’s red card. The hokies put up 14 shots and received seven corner kicks after Tucker’s ejection, while the irish did not record a shot or a corner kick after the 76th minute. 
“The game was fairly even back-and-forth up until [the red card],” waldrum said. “Then, they can throw everything at you, you just don’t have the numbers to cover everything.” 
prior to Tucker’s red card, the two teams traded goals. notre dame struck first in the 28th minute, when junior forward lauren bohaboy headed in a cross from freshman forward kaleigh olmstead. 
virginia Tech responded in the 57th minute after junior de­fender Jodie Zelenky sent a free kick into the penalty box, and hokies freshman midfielder candace cephers knocked in a loose ball past irish freshman goalkeeper kaela little. 
notre dame sophomore de­fender katie naughton left the game at halftime after she re-aggravated a hip flexor injury, waldrum said. sophomore mid­fielder cari roccaro moved to naughton’s spot at center back for the remainder of the game. 
“katie got hurt in the first half really early, and she was a war­rior to even finish out the half,” waldrum said. “she’s had a little bit of a problem with her hip flexor, and she just really cut it all through the first half to just stay up, and credit to her. so we had to make that change, which didn’t help because it took away so much of our team offensively.” 


with its conference season concluded, notre dame will now wait to see if it will earn an at-large bid to the 64-team 2013 ncaa championship. The pair­ings for the tournament will be announced at 4 p.m. on nov. 11. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at   bhartnet@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: gemma ward, 26; dolph lundgren, 56; kate capshaw, 60; roseanne, 61. 
Happy Birthday: sharing and greater involvement with people who are concerned about the same things you are will lead to a progressive and stimulating year. you will be given the chance to expand your interests and to use your talents to the full­est. new friendships will alter the way you live and expand the realm of possibilities through joint endeavors. your numbers are 2, 8, 13, 22, 29, 37, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): letting go of the past will allow you to recognize new possibilities. don’t miss out on a chance to be or do something you’ve always wanted to achieve. good fortune will be the result of honest assessment and unex­pected change. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): put partnerships first. Find out what the people in your life want and need from you and do your best to come up with the goods. make your promises count and be gracious when accepting what’s offered in return. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): a challenge awaits you. don’t back down when you should face whatever comes your way with gusto and a winning attitude. an unusual job that’s posted should not be overlooked. head in a direction that offers change and new beginnings. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Focus on fun, family and self-improvement. what you do to brighten your day will also give you greater clarity regarding what you should strive to acquire in the future. use your muscle and keen eye to make positive changes at home.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): get out and enjoy what’s going on in your community or travel somewhere that will put a new light on a situation you face. refuse to let someone put demands on you or dampen your day. rise above negativity and jealousy.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): change your plans or visit a place you haven’t been be­fore. getting involved in a compassionate humanitarian cause will give you greater vision into what’s really important. The changes you make due to the experiences you have will be life altering.  

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): look at the big picture and you’ll find new ways to use your talents and skills to benefit you as well as others. dedication to what you strive to accomplish will put you in a good position that leads to special offers. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): expand your interests and friendships. Travel to places that will give you greater insight into the problems that exist and the solutions to which you can contribute your expertise. a new outlook will enhance your life and your future. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): consider what you can do to improve a situation that concerns your community, home or family, but don’t endanger your position or your reputation. Take a cautious, conservative step toward enlisting others to contribute. protect your assets. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you’ll attract attention and enhance your reputation with the way you handle unusual situations with ease and comfort. Taking care of medical, financial or legal issues will bring you greater peace of mind. handling other people’s affairs will be lucrative.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): someone may try to box you into a corner. be ready to counter any suggestion made with an alternative that will benefit you as well as those you care about. make the changes necessary before someone puts unrealistic demands on you. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): invest in what you love doing most. by taking a proac­tive position, you can make your life better and enjoy the benefits that a higher income can offer. an unusual source of information will help you branch into prosperous ventures. 


Birthday Baby: you are practical, dedicated and intelligent. you are eager to please. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | noTre dame 93, Tusculum 44 ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | virginia Tech 2, noTre dame 1 
nd closes exhibition run ACC season ends 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
notre dame utilized hot shooting from senior guard eric atkins and graduate student forward Tom knight to roll to a 93-44 victory over Tusculum in its second and final exhibition game Friday night at purcell pavilion. 
knight went 7-of-9 from the floor, including 6-of-6 in the first half, and atkins shot 9-of-11 on the evening as the no. 25 irish rolled in their last tune-up be­fore they open the season Friday against miami (oh). 
knight, who finished with 14 points, sat out notre dame’s exhibition opener against indianapolis on oct. 28 with a back injury, although he said it was mostly a precautionary measure. 
“our last game i was disap­pointed, wanted to be out there with the guys,” knight said. “it started off well with my first couple baskets, so it was fun and 
[i] definitely love the pieces on this team. i think we work very well together.” 
atkins mostly deferred to 

at quarterfinals 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
no. 19 notre dame contin­ued its late-game struggles on the road, as the irish lost a 2-1 double-overtime heart-breaker to no. 5 virginia Tech in the quarterfinals of the acc championships on sunday af­ternoon in blacksburg, va. 
virginia Tech (15-3-2, 9-3-1 acc) won the game in the 109th minute when senior forward Jazmine reeves headed a cor­ner kick from junior midfielder kelsey loupee just inside the right frame. 
For the irish (11-7-1, 7-5-1), the ZACH LLORENS | The Observer feeling was all too familiar. The irish are winless in five over-
Senior guard Eric Atkins defends against Indianapolis on Oct. 29. This season is Atkins’s second as a captain for Notre Dame. time matches this season and 
have lost their last four overtime knight and others early in the he finished with a team-high 21 games. notre dame is also 3-5 contest, until the senior went points. away from alumni stadium this on a surge just before halftime. “There’s a time in every single season and has lost five of its last atkins scored 10 points in the game you have to be aggressive. six on the road. final two minutes of the first … i just had to get into a rhythm,” “it would be different if we half to send the irish into the just weren’t playing well and the break with a 47-18 advantage. see m bball PAGE 14 same players were making the same mistakes over and over,” irish coach randy waldrum said. “it’s a different mistake every game, and it involves usu­ally a different player who gives something up right at the end. yet, when you look over 110 min­utes, the kids were fantastic. it’s so hard to fault them when you have that kind of effort.” 
The irish had to compete with 10 players after senior midfielder elizabeth Tucker drew disqualification following a red card in the 76th minute. Tucker received a yellow card in the 66th minute and picked up her second one just 10 minutes later when she tugged on hokies freshman forward murielle Tiernan’s jersey. 
notre dame received five yel­low cards in total for the game, all of them coming in the sec­ond half. 
“we played a man short for 30 minutes,” waldrum said. “i think that’s kind of why this 
see w soccer PAGE 14 

MEN’S SOCCER | noTre dame 3, wake ForesT 1 
Irish move into first with win 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
in front of a packed spry stadium for senior night in winston-salem n.c., the no. 2 irish toppled no. 12 wake Forest with a 3-1 win saturday in front of 3,991 people. 
with their first conference loss of the season, the demon deacons (8-4-5, 5-1-4 acc) fell to third place while notre dame (9-1-5, 6-1-3) moved into a tie with maryland for the top spot in the acc. 
“it was one of those ‘if we win we go top, but if we lose we don’t have a shot’ kind of thing,” irish coach bobby clark said. “come out with a 3-1 win, that is a big win for us.” 
The irish have played six con­ference road games this season, and with the win over wake Forest, they remain undefeated with a 5-0-1 record. 
“we have done superbly well on the road,” clark said.  “it was our toughest match yet, and we rose to the occasion.” 
The scoring began late in the first half in the 36th minute and proceeded quickly from there. irish sophomore midfielder evan panken collected a failed clearance off of a corner kick and ripped a shot over the head of wake Forest redshirt fresh­man goalkeeper alec Ferrell, off the crossbar and into the net to put the irish up 1-0. 

at 39:35, irish junior defender max lachowecki fouled fresh­man midfielder ian hark in the box. lachowecki received a yellow card and the demon deacons received a penalty kick. senior midfielder luca gimenez converted from the spot to tie the game at 1-1. 
only 40 seconds later, irish se­nior midfielder harrison shipp slotted a pass through the wake Forest defense to junior forward vince cicciarelli, who placed the ball near post past Ferrell to give the irish the 2-1 advantage heading into the break. 
“cicciarelli was dangerous on the break on the night,” clark said. “[The demon deacons] found it difficult to handle him. of course [irish senior forward] harry [shipp] and [junior mid­fielder] robby gallegos were putting some great balls for­ward. it was a very good 
see m soccer PAGE 13 

HOCKEY | vermonT 2, noTre dame 1; noTre dame 3, vermonT 2 
hockey splits with vermont 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
The no. 2 irish split its hockey east debut series with vermont, losing 2-1 on Friday and earning a 3-2 comeback victory saturday. 
The catamounts (2-2-1, 1-1-0 hockey east) celebrated their pro­gram’s 50th anniversary on Friday and their performance reflected the big night, irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
“i thought vermont played well [Friday],” Jackson said. “it was a big weekend for them. They were hyped up and put a lot of pressure on us. ... we didn’t handle their pressure.” 
notre dame (6-2-0, 1-1-0) gave up a late power-play goal in the third period to vermont fresh­man forward mario puskarich and the catamounts held on for the 2-1 win. with 1:44 remaining in regulation, catamounts senior forward chris mccarthy passed the puck to puskarich at the goal line. puskarich waited and then slipped the puck past irish senior goaltender steven summerhays and into the net for the game-winner. summerhays had 17 saves on Friday while vermont fresh­man goaltender mike santaguida notched 20. 
“The game-winning goal on Friday was not a good goal to give up for steven [summerhays],” 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Sophomore left wing Sam Herr skates down the ice in an exhibition against Guelph on Oct. 6. Herr leads the Irish with five goals this year. 
Jackson said. 
The catamounts grabbed the early 1-0 lead Friday on a mccarthy goal with 1:42 left in the first period, his second of the sea­son. The irish responded only 1:52 into the second period on a short­handed goal from senior right winger bryan rust to tie the game at 1-1. The goal was rust’s first this season. The game remained tied until puskarich’s late power-play goal. 
vermont was 1-for-4 on their power play Friday, while the irish went 0-for-6. 
“we had a hard time getting our power play going,” Jackson said. “it looked a little better on saturday than it did on Friday, but we still managed not to score.” 
on saturday, the irish overcame a 2-0 deficit in order to pull out a 3-2 win over vermont and get their first hockey east victory. 
“i was proud of our team com­ing back [on saturday],” Jackson said. “The positive thing is that 
see hockey PAGE 13 





