The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre daMe and and reporT sainT Mary’s iT accuraTely 

voluMe 46, issue 101 | FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2013 | ndsMcobserver.coM 
HER LOYAL DAUGHTERS 
Women establish their place on campus 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Managing editor 

Editor’s note: This is the last of a five-day series discussing the role of women at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, in honor of the 40th anniversary of coeducation at the University this year. 
in 1972, there were 325. 
in 2013, there are more than 4,000. 
when the university first included women in its under­graduate student body in 1972, female students were an extreme minority, a small contingent among more than 5,000 male peers. as notre dame marks the 40th anniversary of coeducation this academic year, women rep­resent 48 percent of the student body. 
in 1972, women’s dorms still had urinals from converted men’s dorms, and female stu­dents didn’t feel comfortable eating in the dining hall alone. but as the population of women has grown and bucked early ste­reotypes, the conversations sur­rounding gender relations here not ended. if anything, they have become more relevant to the campus climate at notre dame. 

Sisterhood and brotherhood 
it’s the first weekend on cam­pus, and freshmen jump into school traditions and dorm 
see coeducaTion PAGE 4 



‘The place needed us’ 

Saint Mary’s president speaks on coeducation 
By JILLIAN BARWICK and KAITLYN RABACH 
saint Mary’s editor and  


news writer 

Editor’s note: This is the last of a five-day series discussing the role of women at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, in honor of the 40th anniversary of coeducation at the University this year. 
as an educated woman with a degree in english literature from saint Mary’s college and a law degree from the university of notre dame, carol ann Mooney is a wom­an who has seen both sides of the street — the street known as state route 933. 
Mooney, the current saint Mary’s president, gradu­ated from the college in the spring of 1972 in the midst of the vietnam war and dur­ing the time notre dame and saint Mary’s considered and rejected a merger of the two schools. 
“The non-merger was not a big deal to me. i did not come to saint Mary’s under the as­sumption i would be receiv­ing a notre dame degree,” Mooney said. “we finished in the spring of ‘72 and none of my classmates were affected by the merger and none of my friends transferred over. To be honest, i was more 
see Mooney PAGE 5 
conference discusses justice 
Family program in human 

By MEL FLANAGAN 

news writer development studies and 
solidarity, said. 

This weekend’s 30th an-“it’s a great way to learn niversary of the africa Faith about important issues that and Justice network confer-affect the quality of life of ence will highlight the plight people in africa,” he said. “it’s of people in africa, rev. bob dowd, director of the Ford see aFrica PAGE 6 
SUB presents jazz festival 
Moots said the event con-coming from a long list of 

By CATHERINE OWERS 

news writer sistently draws talented col-renowned judges that in­
legiate groups from across clude cannonball adderly 
The 55th annual collegiate the nation, as well as an im-and wynton Marsalis,” Moots Jazz Festival kicks off to-pressive set of judges. This said. night at 7 p.m. and contin-year, jazz professors from The festival also emphasiz­ues tomorrow evening in Michigan state university es jazz education, Moots said, washington hall. The event, will serve as judges and will and the judges will lead a presented by student union also perform both nights at clinic on saturday afternoon board, is designed to connect the end of the program in the for all the performers. musicians nationwide. ‘Judges Jam.’ 
event programmer Tim “The judges this year are see JaZZ PAGE 6 

donaTion PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 woMen’s baskeTball PAGE 20 Men’s baskeTball PAGE 20 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: Monica Mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint Mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, Managing editor, 
assistant Managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTMasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What is your favorite flavor of Ben and Jerry’s? 

Elizabeth Peterson 


Marianna Villavicencio 
junior 

junior 
ryan hall 

ryan hall 
“red velvet cheesecake.” 

“chunky Monkey.” 
Teddy Nickels 


Quentin Vawters 
sophomore 

junior 
dillon hall 

dillon hall 
“cookies ‘n’ cream.” 

“vanilla bean.” 
Ricardo Barrios 


Kevin Dunne 
junior 

senior 
dillon hall 

off-campus 
“vanilla bean.” 

“cherry garcia.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

ann Marie Jakubowski Mike Monaco Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: kaitlyn rabach vicky Jacobson katie Mccarty samantha Zuba 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
sara shoemake Maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

83rd Annual Bengal Race for the Heroes Women’s Tennis Graduate Student Men’s Basketball 
grant Tobin laura rosas 

Bouts Finals Fieldhouse Mall Eck Pavilion Dialogue Joyce Center Joyce Center 9:30 a.m.- 10:30 a.m. 11 a.m.- 1 p.m. O’Shaughnessy Hall 7 p.m.- 9 p.m. 6 p.m.- 7 p.m. $20 for 5k or 10k run Notre Dame vs. Duke. 5 p.m.- 9p.m. Notre Dame vs. St. 
Corrections 

Boxing. on the day of the race. On women and media. John’s. 
in the February 27th issue, The observer said the notre dame 

55th Annual Men’s Hockey Vespers Concert Women’s Basketball Four: 7 Catholic 
women’s basketball team would 
Collegiate Jazz Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred Joyce Center Fellowship 
host two ncaa tournament games. 
Festival Arena Heart 7 p.m.- 9 p.m. Joyce Center 
becuase notre dame hosted the first 
Washington Hall 7:05 p.m.- 9:05 p.m. 7:15 p.m.- 8:15 p.m. Notre Dame vs. 8:30 p.m.- 9:30 p.m. 
two rounds of the tournmant last 
6 p.m.- 10 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Featuring the Notre Connecticut. Student-led fellowship. 
season, it will not host any games this 
Free for students. Bowling Green. Dame Folk Choir. 
year. The observer apologizes for the error. 


AT&T donates to South Bend learning center 

By PETER DURBIN 
news writer 
aT&T indiana recently made a $10,000 donation to the robinson community learning center to cultivate a sense of entrepre­neurial spirit in south bend area youth. 
The contribution comes from the aT&T aspire program, which donates money to various or­ganizations that help students prepare for college and future careers.  according to an aT&T press release, the aspire program has committed $350 million to programs around the country. 
The center works with local middle and high school students, providing them with opportuni­ties for exposure to various busi­ness facets. 
Jennifer knapp beudert, man­ager of the robinson learning center, said part of the center’s mission is to work to develop the professional ability of commu­nity children. 
“we’ve been working with youth in the community to teach entrepreneurial concepts such as idea generation, problem solving, how to write a business plan and public speaking,” beudert said. 
These students work with mentors from the gigot center for entrepreneurial studies at the Mendoza college of business, who help turn ideas into business plans. 
some of these plans become a reality, and beudert said the robinson center hopes this mon­etary donation will further ben­efit students who recognize the importance of creative thinking. 
“providing opportunities for tomorrow’s leaders to acquire skills that will contribute to their future success is one of the best investments any company can make,” said beudert in an aT&T press release. 
george s. Fleetwood, presi­dent of aT&T indiana, said his company is invested in the area.
     “we’re dedicated to the com­munities we serve, and i’m very proud to be part of a company that gives back like we do,” Fleetwood said. 

aT&T started the aspire pro­gram in 2008 to cultivate growth today’s youth. 
“since 2008 the major thrust of our foundation’s giving has been on high school retention, gradu­ation rates and preparedness for the workforce,” Fleetwood said. 
This is the second donation aT&T has made to the robinson center. 
“aT&T has long been a support­er of the robinson center and the university of notre dame and we appreciate their partner­ship in our efforts to develop the next generation of young entre­preneurs,” beudert said in the release. 
Fleetwood said he prioritizes a sense of purpose in young people and the prospect of their future. “The youth of our community are our most precious resource,” Fleetwood said in the release. “The young entrepreneurs of today will develop into the busi­ness leaders that companies like aT&T will look to for leadership in the future.” 
The partnership between the two organizations culminates in the “summer biz camp” and an entrepreneurship class, accord­ing to the aT&T press release. 
Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu 


center for spirituality to hold lecture series 
discussion of the critical issues constantly thinking about what medicine. related to spirituality that are role the church plays in these “she is exploring how the facing students.” issues.” body and spirit get along with 
The lecture series, sponsored sr. dolphin said she admires each other,” sr. dolphin, pbvM, 
by the college’s annual endowed steinfels as both an author and a ph. d said. “she is studying the 
lecture series Fund, kicks off speaker. The two have a history impact spirituality can have on 
March 5 when Margaret o’brien together that came about long someone who is ill. she’s done 
steinfels will deliver a talk called before their mutual interests research on how people get bet­
“perspectives on the catholic in spirituality and the catholic ter and recover if they’ve had 
intellectual Tradition.” steinfels tradition. some sort of spiritual or religious 
is the former co-director of “i went to grade school with experience.” 
the center for on religion and Margaret in chicago, so i’m very sr. dolphin also said she is ex-
culture at Fordham university. excited to hear see her speak and tremely interested in this lecture 
“what we are trying to talk talk,” she said. “i highly respect because the topic of connecting 
about in this first lecture is the her.” science and religion in this way 
catholic intellectual tradition, however, sr. dolphin said she is still in its early stages. 
which is very strong throughout is also looking forward to the “i’ve met [bremault-phillips) 
history,” sr. dolphin, pbvM, ph. other two lectures in the series. before and she’s very energetic 
lectures will illustrate the overall d said. “it’s an acknowledge-The second speaker visiting and very convinced there is 

By BRIDGET FEENEY 

associate saint Mary’s editor goal of the center, reminding ment of the power of human campus is suzette bremault-something about spirituality people how the body, mind and intellect.” phillips, from the department and physical/mental health that beginning next month, spirit of a person are connected sr. dolphin said the human of occupational Therapy at the we need to take a look at,” she the saint Mary’s center for and dependent on one another. mind is a crucial part of a devel-university of alberta in canada. said. “it’s a new field and study 
spirituality (cFs) will bring “The mind and spirit are inti-oping spirituality. bremault-phillips will speak so i’m excited.” 
three speakers to campus as part mately connected and mutually “it’s an emphasis on the mind March 26 in a talk called, The third and final speaker in of the 2013 spring lecture series, enriching to each other in an ac-in that we must think about “exploring the body/spirituality the series, Mary Jo weaver, is a “Mind, body, spirit: connected.” ademic setting,” she said. “we’re the issues of the world, and interface.” The talk, according professor emerita of religious cvs director sr. kathleen in a unique position to engage it’s concerns and the issues in to sr. dolphin will focus on the studies at indiana university dolphin, pbvM, ph. d, said these the saint Mary’s community in the church,” she said. “we are use of spiritual experiences in speaking on april 2. her talk, ti­tled “The evolutionary adventure 
paid adverTiseMenT 
of catholic spirituality,” focuses more on the development of catholic spirituality throughout history, according to sr. dolphin, pbvM, ph. d. 
“catholic spiritually has evolved over the years and seen major changes,” she said. “we’ve seen old ways that didn’t work for people falling by the way side.” 
sr. dolphin 5 said the audience might be hesitant of the talk or unsure of how to react because of the world “evolution” in the lec­ture’s title. 
“some people don’t like the world “evolved” when it comes to catholic spirituality,” she said. “but it has certainly and weaver is a high-energy speak­er who has a lot to say on this subject.” 
each lecture is free and open to the public. For more infor­mation, contact the cFs at (574) 284-4636 or visit www.saint­ma r ys.edu/spiritua lit y-cur­rent-lecture-series. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 



work 10 times as hard as the male people feel comfortable bringing university. students, to prove that when i up now.” “i hope there continues to be an received special recognition, it as the female population of effort to address issues of gender wasn’t just because i was a female professors and students con-and diversity [in key positions,]” student,” warchol said. “you don’t tinues to grow, ohmer chairs ohmer said. “we are really in a want to be recognized because the university committee on transitional moment and i hope you’re different. you want to be women’s Faculty and students. we don’t lose the momentum we recognized because you do supe-The committee began in the have.” rior work. early 1990s and reports to as a high-ranking administra­
“but there’s never been a prob-university president Fr. John tor, university chief of staff ann lem with thinking i was receiv-Jenkins through the provost of Firth has also served in a number ing special treatment or different the university. of positions involved with wom­treatment because i was a female The purpose of the committee en at notre dame, and she was at notre dame. so maybe it’s pre-is to “consider policies, practices instrumental in beginning the pared me to expect the best out of and the general environment of gender relations center (grc). people.” the university as they relate to but when she first arrived on 
while her parents’ generation women faculty and students,” campus as an undergraduate in has populated the engineering according to notre dame’s 1977, only 25 percent of the stu­field with more men, warchol academic articles. The commit-dent body was female. said she didn’t expect that trend tee has 22 elected members from “There were occasions when i to continue as her own genera-across the university, including was the only woman or perhaps tion graduates from school. 20 women and two men. one of very few in a class, and we 
Coeducation 
“you always hear this talk of “i think that it’s a very impor-were certainly outnumbered in evading hall staff post-parietals people, especially in our parents’ tant committee for bringing the dining halls,” she said. “but for students, she said, but just generation or older, how they talk women faculty together to talk this didn’t really detract from my 
conTinued FroM page 1 

hanging out with a friend might about industry in engineering be-about issues that affect us as a sense of belonging and connec­
not be enough incentive for ing so segregated still and there’s group. … i think the committee tion. … i guess i felt on some level life. girls’ dorms serenade boys’ breaking the rules. such a high proportion of men,” feels empowered,” she said. like the place needed us, that hav­dorms. boys escort girls to broth-“parietals aren’t going to stop she said. “which doesn’t really currently, the full-time teach-ing women here was part of an er-sister dorm events. but for you from doing any shenanigans mesh with what you see at the ing faculty at notre dame breaks important and necessary evolu­senior lauren palomino, orienta-you’re going to. … parietals are university level.” down to about 70 percent men tion for notre dame.” tion at notre dame had “a weird going to stop you from watching and 30 percent women, ohmer as the presence of women has dynamic.” a movie because spending a night ‘A transitional moment’ said, but she expects that demo-grown at notre dame and Firth 
“we’re doing these serenades in your [opposite sex] best friend’s even in the 15 years since dr. graphic to shift as long-standing has climbed in the administra­… [and] in the time a boy takes dorm, it’s not worth the last 20 susan ohmer, professor in the male professors retire. tion, she said.“a mentor gave me a knee and you sing back to him, minutes of ‘Forgetting sarah department of Film, Television “over the past two years, we’ve some very simple but profound you’re not going to build a solid Marshall,’” she said. and Theatre, arrived at notre had a number of key people in-advice when i was first embark-friendship that lasts from that,” “For me, it just limits friend-dame in 1998, she has noticed a volved in diversity initiatives, and ing on my professional career — palomino said. ships with the opposite sex.” change in the percentage of wom-Fr. John has defined diversity to to always remember who i am,” 
senior pat rice participated in senior shannon warchol, also en faculty at the university. include people of color as well as she said. “in some ways, that’s Frosh-o four years ago as a new an ra in welsh Family hall, “i can see a difference. … in gender,” ohmer said. harder than it sounds, and while member of alumni hall. This said the Frosh-o experience and the time i’ve been here, there some of these people, however, hardly unique to one gender, i year, he helped lead orientation single-sex dorms don’t necessar-seems to be more openness about have moved on from notre dame think it can be a particular strug­as an ra. For rice, freshman ily stunt friendships — they just children, about talking about to other institutions, ohmer said, gle for women. orientation is a change to intro-make the process of meeting the children, about thinking about citing vice president and associ-“one of the things i have most duce incoming students to the opposite sex more “formal” than work-family balance,” ohmer ate provost don pope-davis’ re-university. at other schools. said. “These are issues that cent decision to move to depaul see coeducaTion PAGE 5 
dorm events and traditions “i was raised like you don’t in­aren’t gender-biased institutions vite yourself to somebody else’s 
— they are ways to help young house, you wait until they invite men and women begin to inter-you or whatever,” warchol said. act with each other on a college “so i would never go into a boys’ campus. dorm and just walk around and 
“For me personally, Frosh-o see who was there. but if i lived was just a ‘welcome to notre in a co-gender dorm where they dame’ experience,” rice said. “i lived down the hall or on the next never felt awkward, i never felt floor, i would just walk past and intimidated. … if nothing else, see whose door was open and i serenading and walking girls over wouldn’t feel like i was inviting to dances gives you something to myself over to their house. talk about at the end of the night. “so i think that makes it more you talk about domerfest, you difficult freshman year because talk about what song you sang to it makes it so formal, you have to the ladies. always be inviting someone over. 
“i don’t think there’s anything you can’t just build a friendship [awkward] inherently. Frosh-o because you’re there [in the same isn’t supposed to be your entire dorms.] now i don’t see it as much college experience. it’s supposed of a problem.” to be ‘welcome to notre dame.’ let’s get out there.” A classroom dynamic 
orientation introduces stu-warchol decided to pursue dents to the residence life civil engineering when she was structure at notre dame — 29 a high school student living in single-sex residence halls, di-Minneapolis. when a major vided into 15 male dorms and 14 bridge collapsed in the city, she female dorms. witnessed the massive problem­
“i think same-sex dorms are a solving effort to revamp trans-strong foundational principal,” portation in the large metropolis rice said. “it’s what notre dame and then build a safer bridge. is founded on, creating sisterhood she’ll head to graduate school and brotherhood. a lot of bonding in May and then enter a male-goes on after parietals. it’s always dominated engineering field. good to interact with the opposite at her summer internship, only sex, but you would never have the nine of the 40 people in her office frank, open dialogue you might were women. but at notre dame, have [after parietals] if girls were she hasn’t felt that same male around.” monopoly, even though her de-
For palomino, parietals can partment has enrolled more men sometimes stunt friendships be-than women. tween male and female students. “i almost felt like i was going to a date might be worth the risk of have to come in and work harder, 




Coeducation 
conTinued FroM page 4 
appreciated about my career at notre dame is that i have found it possible to be myself here, which among other things means that i can bring my perspective as a woman to bear on the work i do.” 
‘what is the stereotype?’ 
before there were notre dame women, there were saint Mary’s women. holy cross sisters es­tablished the college as an all-female institution just two years after holy cross brothers estab­lished notre dame in 1842. 
now, saint Mary’s is one of the premier women’s colleges in the nation. but at one point, saint Mary’s almost stopped ex­isting. in the late 1960s and the early 1970s, notre dame and saint Mary’s discussed merging their two universities. Talks fell through for financial and institu­tional reasons, and saint Mary’s remains its own university today. 
saint Mary’s senior ciara o’halloran has participated in science classes at notre dame, taking advantage of the co-ex­change program that still exists between the two schools. 
“well, my classes at notre dame were a lot bigger, so i didn’t know my professors as well as i knew my professors at saint Mary’s,” o’halloran said. “i didn’t get to know as many class­mates as i did at saint Mary’s. 
“i guess the nice thing [at saint Mary’s] was that i knew every­body in the class and i also prob­ably took for granted in some respect that i had the professor for several classes.” 
o’halloran said notre dame students were sometimes sur­prised to find her among their classmates. 
“For me, i would find people turn around and [say,] ‘you go to saint Mary’s? you’re not like i imagined you.’ 
“i’m like, ‘what is the stereo­type? what is the normal saint Mary’s student?’” 
notre dame sophomore erin klosterman began her college career at saint Mary’s, but she transferred to notre dame to pursue her dream — playing vol­leyball for notre dame.  even as she has changed schools, how­ever, she said she sees the differ­ence between notre dame and saint Mary’s as a positive one. 
“i definitely think an all-girls education is unique,” klosterman said. “i think it provides an excel­lent environment for learning as well as making friendships, and i think it really just allows the girls to go and really feed off each one another in an academic environ­ment without having to worry about a lot of other things.” 
as she moved from saint Mary’s to notre dame, klosterman said she really appreciated the en­vironment of a same-sex dorm, so similar to her experience at an all-girls high school and at the college. and when she tells notre dame students she has transferred from saint Mary’s, she said she hasn’t experienced any kind of discrimination. 
“i think a lot of people hear about the stereotypes but their actions are based solely on the fact that they’ve heard about a stereotype but not necessarily that they’ve had a negative expe­rience with a saint Mary’s girl.” 

Loyal daughters 

This weekend, palomino will direct this year’s “loyal daughters and sons,” a student-run production that focuses on true stories of sexual violence and gender. The production is meant to open dialogue about sexuality, sex and its complexi­ties on a campus like notre dame’s — one she said does not do the best job of opening itself to those conversations. 
“if you can’t talk about sexu­ality, how do you talk about bad sexuality, about [good sexual­ity]?” she said. “how do you de­termine the difference is there? if all sexuality is bad, if all sex is bad, then what’s the difference between sexual assault and con­sensual sex?’ 
“it needs to be a safer place to talk [about] things.” 
but notre dame has also helped her consider aspects of her own gender and sexuality, that palomino had not encoun­tered before. 
“i’ve dealt with a lot of gender issues that my friends haven’t at other schools,” she said. “because i’m not catholic, i’m at a catholic school, i’m from the west coast. it’s a different place. so i’ve thought about things a different way. no one anywhere else has to be curious about whether they can get their birth control pills filled. no one anywhere else won­ders if it’s okay to buy condoms. and so i’ve thought about things. and that has helped me to really understand why i believe what i believe, where other people haven’t had to think about that.” 
as productions like “loyal daughters and sons” continue, as men and women at notre dame continue to learn together, palomino said she hopes the stu­dent body continues to learn to talk together as well. 
“i hope it continues to be a con­versation,” she said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


even though she was not 
Mooney 
concerned about the poten­
conTinued FroM page 1 
tial merger, Mooney made 

sure to take full advantage of worried about international the resources offered on both politics at the time.” campuses. 
“even during my undergrad i felt as though i was a part of both schools. My study abroad program in France was a notre dame program. at that time i was even issued a notre dame id,” Mooney said. “during my time at saint Mary’s i used the notre dame library quite a bit and i went to the huddle in la Fortune. at that time the co-exchange was also avail­able so i could take class over there and i did.” 
while the non-merger may have not affected Mooney, some of her fellow belles did find conflict in the matter. 
“we finished the year the merger was supposed to hap­pen,” she said. “There were divisions of females that were pleased it was called off and others that were furious.” 
when her undergraduate 


paid adverTiseMenT 
years were finished, Mooney took the trip across the street to notre dame law school, where she graduated first in her class in 1977. during her time there, she found it more difficult to travel back to saint Mary’s. 
“i  had  no time in law school,” she said. “i only had time for work.” 
after working in washington, d.c., as an as­sociate attorney for a the law firm Jones, day, reavis and pogue, Mooney returned to south bend to serve as the notre dame vice president and associate provost from 1994 till 2004. 
“when i was a faculty member at notre dame i used to come over [to saint Mary’s] and use the library because it is so quiet,” she said. “[at notre dame], i was often one of the few women in the room and here there are few men in the room.” 
in June 2004, Mooney be­came the college’s first lay alumna president. Throughout her term, she has continued to stress the importance of single-sex and faith-based education. 
“i still think there is an im­portant role from all-wom­en’s education. For me, i am dedicated to faith based ed­ucation,” Mooney said. “i am really not interested in high­er education where faith is not an element. i really like being in a place where faith and morals are spoken about open ly.” 
Mooney’s deep roots at notre dame and saint Mary’s have allowed her to acquire knowledge from both sides of the street. she said she has gained great friendships and excellent professional relationships with “people from both sides of the road.” 
“i am rarely on the notre dame campus these days, but the relationships con­tinue,” Mooney said. “at this point, we are much more like friendly neighbors. obviously when the merger was being talked about there was constant communica­tion. now, we have good re­lationships and talk when we need to.” 
Mooney, who has co­authored two books, is a member of phi beta kappa and serves on a number of boards, said she will always continue to cherish both educations she received from saint Mary’s and notre dame. 
“we are like neighbors that share a driveway,” she said. 
Contact Jillian Barwick and Kaitlyn Rabach at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu and krabac01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2013 | ndsMcobserver.coM 

Africa 
conTinued FroM page 1 
an an important way to learn about how we can make a differ­ence through our advocacy.” 
The conference, titled “Justice for africa — Justice for the world,” will take place at notre dame today through sunday for the second time in the conference’s history. 
dowd said the africa Faith and Justice network considered many factors when it decided to hold the conference at notre dame, par­ticularly its position as a leading university. 
“To hold a conference at our university is something the aFJn leadership thought would be im­portant because they really want­ed the conference to engage young people in the work of aFJn and in­volve young people to be a part of it,” he said. 
additionally, dowd said the congregation of the holy cross is an organizational member of aFJn. notre dame also has a stu­dent chapter of aFJn. 
“universities are places where people devote themselves to learning and understanding,” dowd said. “part of aFJn’s mis­sion is to promote awareness and a greater understanding of the challenges that face the people of africa. 
The conference will feature several speakers and workshops outlining quality of life issues in africa, dowd said. emira woods, co-director of Foreign ppolicy in focus at the institute for policy studies in washington, d.c., will deliver the keynote address this evening. 

“it’s a great way to grow in un­derstanding and also begin to ex­plore how we might act in order to promote greater justice in our world,” down said. “i think grow­ing in understanding is the first step.” 
The kellogg institute, the center for social concerns, the holy cross Mission center, the institute for church life, the college of arts and letters and the department of africana studies are sponsoring the conference. 
“i would invite everyone to the conference, especially people who have the slightest interest in africa and how the u.s. relates to africa and african countries,” dowd said. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanagan3@nd.edu 
Jazz 
conTinued FroM page 1 
performance groups from notre dame include the university Jazz band, the notre dame new orleans brass band and the bill gowans Trio. bungum said all the groups will bring different interpretations of jazz to their performances, but the event extends beyond the university. 
The alma college percussion ensemble, from alma, Mich. will open Friday evening’s show, a performance event coordinator sammy bungum described as a sure success. 
“They’re one of the coolest groups around,” bungum said. “They’re usually a fan favorite.” 
additionally, bungum said the Fusion ensemble from columbia college in chicago, ill., will per­form, bringing a unique sound to the festival. 
“They play music that’s a lit­tle bit different, a little bit more avant-garde,” said bungum, “but we’re excited to have them. it’s a different kind of sound, but i think a lot of people will enjoy it.” 
Moots said the festival is being promoted as a tradition as well an opportunity to experience a unique art form. The dorm with the largest student attendance will win free chipotle. 
“it’s one of the oldest traditions here at notre dame, a school that’s all about tradition,” Moots said. “This used to be, and still is, a premier festival and an exposi­tion of jazz itself. 

 “[students can] see a side of things you typically don’t see; there’s going to be something for everyone.” 
bungum said students can re­alize the legacy of jazz and the effects it has on contemporary music, especially hip-hop. 
“The music isn’t necessarily going to all reflect old-time jazz, some of it will, some of it won’t,” he said. “[The festival] shows the progression of the art form and that it still is alive.” 
bungum said the festival should be enjoyed by a large audience, not just the jazz enthusiast. 
“For me, i love watching the olympics because you get to see people who are the best at what they do,” he said. “The groups coming, they have some of the best players; i think whether you enjoy jazz or not, you can enjoy people who are good at what they do.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
VATICAN CITY 

Benedict XVI finishes final day of papacy 
to a papacy that began on april my unconditional reverence 

paid adverTiseMenT 19, 2005, with a similarly meek and obedience,” benedict told speech delivered from the the cardinals. loggia overlooking st. peter’s benedict’s decision to live at square, where the newly elect-the vatican in retirement, wear ed benedict said he was but a the white cassock associated “simple humble worker in the with the papacy and be called vineyard of the lord.” “emeritus pope” and “your 
over his eight-year papa-holiness,” rather than revert cy, benedict tried to set the back to his birth name, Joseph church on a more traditional ratzinger, has deepened con­course, convinced that all the cerns about the shadow he ills afflicting it — sexual abuse, might cast over the next pope. dwindling numbers of priests and empty pews — were a re-paid adverTiseMenT sult of a misreading of the re­forms of the second vatican council. 
his successor is likely to fol­low in his footsteps, given that the vast majority of the 115 cardinals who will elect the 
the first two months of his next pope were appointed by 

Associated Press 

retirement. benedict himself and share his casTel gandolFo, italy at the seat of the popes, conservative bent. 
— as bells tolled and the clock benedict’s staff bade the pon-For the time being, the gov-struck eight, the brass-stud-tiff goodbye in scenes of dig-ernance of the church shifts to ded wooden doors swung shut nified solemnity, with swiss cardinal Tarcisio bertone, the Thursday at this palace in the guards in full regalia and prel-camerlengo, or chamberlain, italian hills, marking an end to ates kneeling to kiss his papal who along with the college benedict Xvi’s papacy and the ring one last time. of cardinals will guide the start of his final journey as a a livelier atmosphere reigned church and make plans start­“simple pilgrim.” in the countryside, with well-ing Monday for the conclave 
capping a day of tearful fare-wishers jamming the hilltop to elect the 266th leader of the wells that included an extraor-town’s main square, shouting world’s 1.2 billion catholics. dinary pledge of obedience to “viva il papa!” and waving the one of bertone’s first acts was his successor, benedict entered yellow and white flags of the to lock the papal apartment history as the first pope in 600 holy see. inside the vatican. in another years to resign — leaving the cheers went up as the task steeped in symbolism, he catholic church in unprec-85-year-old benedict stepped will ensure that benedict’s pa­edented limbo and ending a out onto the palace balcony pal ring and seal are destroyed. pontificate shaped by struggles and, arms outstretched, de-benedict’s journey into re-to move beyond clerical sex clared his papacy was nearing tirement began with a final abuse scandals and reawaken the end. audience with his cardinals, christianity in an indifferent “i am simply a pilgrim be-where he sought to defuse con-world. ginning the last leg of his pil-cerns about his future role and 
on benedict’s last day, the grimage on this earth,” he said. the possible conflicts arising mood was vastly different in-Then giving a final blessing, from having both a reigning side the vatican than at castel he declared: “grazie e buona and a retired pope living side­gandolfo, the 17th-century pa-notte” — “Thank you and good by-side inside the vatican. pal retreat set in the hills south night” in italian. “among you is also the future of rome, where he will spend it was a remarkable bookend pope, whom i today promise 






Military officials pursue WikiLeaks case in court 
Army private pleads guilty to distributing classified material online, military seeks life sentence 
Associated Press 
ForT Meade, Md. — bradley Manning, the army private arrested in the big­gest leak of classified mate­rial in u.s. history, pleaded guilty Thursday to charges that could send him to prison for 20 years, saying he was trying to expose the american mili­tary’s “bloodlust” and disre­gard for human life in iraq and afghanistan. 
Military prosecutors said they plan to move forward with a court-martial on 12 re­maining charges against him, including aiding the enemy, which carries a potential life sentence. 
“i began to become de­pressed at the situation we found ourselves mired in year after year. in attempting coun­terinsurgency operations, we became obsessed with cap­turing and killing human tar­gets on lists,” the 25-year-old former intelligence analyst in baghdad told a military judge. 
he added: “i wanted the pub­lic to know that not everyone living in iraq were targets to be neutralized.” 
it was the first time Manning directly admitted leaking the material to the anti-secrecy website wikileaks and de­tailed the frustrations that led him to do it. 
The slightly built soldier from crescent, okla., read from a 35-page statement through his wire-rimmed glasses for more than an hour. he spoke quickly and evenly, showing little emo­tion even when he described how troubled he was by what he had seen. 
The judge, col. denise lind, accepted his plea to 10 charges involving illegal possession or distribution of classified ma­terial. Manning was allowed to plead guilty under military regulations instead of federal espionage law, which knocked the potential sentence down from 92 years. 
he will not be sentenced until his court-martial on the other charges is over. 
Manning admitted sending hundreds of thousands of iraq and afghanistan battlefield reports, state department dip­lomatic cables, other classified records and two battlefield vid­eo clips to wikileaks in 2009 and 2010. wikileaks posted some of the material, embar­rassing the u.s. and its allies. 
he said he was disturbed by the conduct of the wars in afghanistan and iraq and the way american troops treated the populace. he said he did not believe the release of the information he downloaded onto a thumb drive would harm the u.s. 
“i believed that if the general public, especially the american public, had access to the infor­mation ... this could spark a do­mestic debate on the role of the military and our foreign policy in general,” Manning said. 
Manning said he was ap­palled by 2007 combat video of an assault by a u.s. helicopter that killed 11 men, including a reuters news photographer. The pentagon concluded the troops mistook the camera equipment for weapons. 
“The most alarming aspect of the video to me was the seem­ingly delightful bloodlust the aerial weapons team happened to have,” Manning said, add­ing that the soldiers’ actions “seemed similar to a child tor­turing ants with a magnifying 
paid adverTiseMenT 
glass.” 

as for the state department cables, he said they “docu­mented backdoor deals and criminality that didn’t reflect the so-called leader of the free world.” 
“i thought these cables were a prime example of the need for a more open diplomacy,” Manning said. “i believed that these cables would not damage the united states. however, i believed these cables would be embarrassing.” 
The battlefield reports were the first documents Manning decided to leak. he said he sent them to wikileaks after contacting The washington post and The new york Times. he said he felt a reporter at the post didn’t take him seri­ously, and a message he left for news tips at the Times was not returned. 
Times spokeswoman eileen Murphy said Thursday of the purported phone call: “This is news to us.” 
The obama administra­tion has said the release of the documents threatened valu­able military and diplomatic sources and strained america’s relations with other govern­ments. The administration has aggressively pursued people accused of leaking classified material, and Manning’s is the highest-profile case. 
Manning has been embraced by some left-leaning activ­ists as a whistle-blowing hero whose actions exposed war crimes and helped trigger the Middle eastern pro-democ­racy uprisings known as the arab spring in 2010. he has spent more than 1,000 days in custody. 
The soldier told the court that he corresponded online with someone he believed to be wikileaks founder Julian assange but never confirmed the person’s identity. 
wikileaks has been care­ful never to confirm or deny Manning was the source of the documents. 
reached by telephone in britain on Thursday, assange would not say whether he had any dealings with Manning but called him a political prisoner and said his prosecution was part of an effort by the u.s. to clamp down on criticism of its military and foreign policy. 


an editor’s farewell 



Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 

i’ve been lucky enough to have had an eventful term as editor-in-chief, a term which ends with this edition of the paper. There’s been a fruitful debate over lgbTQ rights on campus and a football season unlike any other in a long and proud tradition. There’s been a presidential election, and we’ve marked the 40th year of coeducation at notre dame. when i reflect on these stories and so many more, i’m struck by one thought: stories matter. 
over the last year, our best stories have put faces on events. They’ve added voices to debates. They’ve brought forth the im­pact an administrative policy can have on real people. 
That’s what journalism is supposed to do — tell stories. stories will never go away, and that’s why journalism will nev­er go away. it might look different years from now, but it’ll still be telling stories. That’s our job. 
The countless stories of the notre dame and saint Mary’s communities have been my driving force for the last year. They’ve been both complex and simple, na­tional and local, uplifting and saddening. Through it all, they’ve been the best part of my job, and they’re what i’ll miss the most when i hand my office over. 
on Monday, you’ll hear from our in­coming editor-in-chief. he’s got big plans for his term, and he’s got an immensely talented group of leaders behind him. as for our crop of editors, i’m proud to say we accomplished many of our own lofty goals — this new design, for one — but left more for the next group of leaders. yet while each spring new editors begin to change, tweak and improve The observer, one thing will never change: we’ll keep telling stories. 
There are so many untold stories be­hind the stories you read, and many of them took place in our newsroom. countless people have made our storytell­ing possible. To deb, Megan, andrew, sam and the rest of the staff, thank you. it’s been an absolute thrill working with you. 
Thanks to the people who helped me write my own story. From my family to the editors who came before me, from emily to the roommates who kept me sane, thank you too. i’ll have a lot more free time to spend with you next week. i promise. 
and most of all, thanks to you, the read­er. Thanks for looking to us for coverage of an eventful year on campus and around the world. Thanks for picking us up every day, whether in the dining hall or online from somewhere around the world. and thanks for reading our stories. 
The observer will always tell those sto­ries — your stories. 
because stories matter, and they always will. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 
state road 933 is just a stretch of concrete, just two lanes of local traffic in each direction, just a road. 
but state road 933 also acts as a physical divide between notre dame and saint Mary’s, and the divide is much wider than four lanes of asphalt. 
This week, The observer has published a series titled “her loyal daughters,” a five-day stretch of stories to mark the 40th anniversary of coeducation at notre dame. we have writ­ten about a possible merger between notre dame and saint Mary’s in the early 1970s, when both were single-sex universi­ties. we have written about the memories of the first women on this campus and their male classmates. we have written about the men and women who walk down notre dame avenue and the avenue at saint Mary’s today. 
notre dame and saint Mary’s have been neighbors since the mid-1840s. holy cross sisters founded the college in 1844, just two years after holy cross priests began notre dame in 1842. a co-exchange program developed between the two schools in the mid-20th century so students at each college could capi­talize on the resources of the other. a merger made sense. but we’ve heard it again and again this week: “i’m glad the merger fell through.” graduates of both schools have expressed thanks for their unique degrees. 
university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh want­ed notre dame to become a top catholic research university, a distinctive voice in higher education. it made sense to search for the brightest minds in the country to achieve that goal, and that search needed to include women. so notre dame went coed and today is a top-25 university. 
when notre dame and saint Mary’s discussed a possible merger, there were more than 300 women’s colleges around the nation. it has been 40 years since those talks failed, and there are now fewer than 100 women’s colleges in the united states. Fewer than 40 of those schools have a catholic identity. saint Mary’s has built itself on the goal of providing strong liberal arts and a catholic education for women, and it is both one of the top 100 liberal arts colleges and one of the premier women’s colleges in america. 
notre dame and saint Mary’s have different missions, but both excel. notre dame and saint Mary’s have different strengths, but both graduate top-tier students. notre dame and saint Mary’s are on different sides of state road 933, but are neighbors. 
so why does that narrow strip of concrete often feel like a gulf between us? 
we all know the stereotypes. notre dame women aren’t as pretty as saint Mary’s women, but they’re smarter under the dome. saint Mary’s women are easy. we throw the word “slut” around without a second thought. notre dame men who strike out with their female peers on this campus can easily find a “smick chick.” we ride the “sluttle.” 
These stereotypes are disgraceful, inaccurate and uninformed. and we — men and women, saint Mary’s and notre dame — are responsible for allowing them to continue. we perpetrate them without considering their consequences. we laugh at jokes on the annual Zahm house ticket for student body president and vice president about a monorail between notre dame and saint Mary’s, so women could more eas­ily find their way to men’s dorms. debate about saint Mary’s students’ chances in the bcs national championship game ticket lottery became really nasty, really quickly. 
it starts with freshman orientation. Frosh-o welcomes new students to school traditions, but it also sets the tone for dorm and gender relationships on campus. women’s dorms sere­nade men’s dorms, and men escort female students on “dates” to various brother-sister dorm events. but freshmen gener­ally don’t collaborate with other dorms of their same gender, and the first time saint Mary’s women enter the mix is on the sweaty dance floor at domerfest, taken aback by the misper­ceptions they often face. Freshman orientation does not foster positive relationships between notre dame students and their own gender outside the immediate dorm community, and it definitely doesn’t introduce saint Mary’s and notre dame stu­dents in a setting that encourages them to form friendships. There is awkwardness to this structure, a sense of competition among one gender for members of the other. 
it starts with freshman orientation, but it continues beyond that first weekend. how many notre dame students have walked up the avenue? how many notre dame students avail themselves of the classes we can take at saint Mary’s? how many saint Mary’s students eat after club meetings or band practice in the dining hall at notre dame, where obtaining a co-exchange meal is unnecessarily difficult? 
how many students have thought about the jokes we pass to younger students, the flippant comments we make and their consequences? 
administrators and students at both schools should remem­ber this era of coeducation and return to its original principles 
— notre dame and saint Mary’s are two schools, on two dif­ferent sides of the road, striving to accomplish two different missions. we are different, not better. 
let us drive the administration to reform the freshman orientation experience and set a more positive tone for gender relations. 
let us build a sense of sisterhood not just in our individual dorms, but also between all female students. 
let us demand more convenient options to share meals together and to travel from notre dame to saint Mary’s. 
let us foster collaboration between clubs, between those studying abroad in the same cities from different schools and between individuals studying similar subjects. 
let us rid our language of terms like “slut.” 
let us embrace coeducation in the best sense of the word — a community of men and women, studying together, learning with and from each other. 
let us make this road we travel down together into a two-way street. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


please sequester our penchant for stupidity 

Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

The $85 billion of automatic, mas­sive and indiscriminate budgetary cuts across the federal government, our so-called “sequestration” of funding, triggered at midnight and is sched­uled to continue through september. designed as a draconian meat cleaver way to force congressional democrats and republicans to agree on solutions reducing the deficit, the measure was sadly not too extreme to fail. The con­gressional lawmakers’ impasse leaves many to wonder why. 
warnings have abounded since sequestration’s inception in 2011. republicans, ever eager to oppose obama ideas, blame the president for devising the sequestration scheme. yet house gop members — still living in their fantasy world that collapsed on Mitt romney last november — wrongly believe that although they personally passed sequestration, the consequences fall on the president for thinking of the idea. gop intransigence relies on a de­nial of complicity: “don’t blame me. i did not rob the bank. i only drove the getaway car.” 
Months ago, the non-partisan congressional budget office (cbo) es­timated that sequestration would cost the overall economy 750,000 jobs within a year. Testifying on Tuesday before a congressional committee, Federal reserve chairman ben bernanke (an appointee of former president, george 
w. bush) urged lawmakers to avoid sharp spending cuts, which he warned could create a “significant headwind” against our economic recovery. The pentagon notified 800,000 workers last week to expect furloughs — both contractors and government staff — ef­fectively reducing their salaries for six months by 20 percent starting today. so why does such seemingly tone deafness echo on capitol hill? 
simply put, in their fictional gop world, most representatives from safely gerrymandered republican districts oppose president obama as sport. Their political games are void of fiscal or historical fact, oftentimes riddled with simple slogans and well-worn lies. They rely on such popular untruths as newt gingrich’s “economic fact” coined in the 1990s alleging taxing the rich reduces job growth. They support their mindless chatter through their american idol, ronald reagan, using mere legend rath­er than a study in historical governance. 
Their fantasyville tales become ab­surdly opposite and devoid of the facts. historically, reagan raised taxes nearly a dozen times — two collectively were the largest in history at the time — on social security and gasoline while clos­ing tax shelters and other loopholes to reduce the deficit, at the time averaging 
18.2 percent of gross domestic product (gdp). reagan’s public debt tripled from $712 billion in 1980 to $2.052 trillion in 1988, jumping from 26 to 41 percent of gdp. ironically, obama haters hate to acknowledge obama outperforming reagan on public debt. The cbo reports this year’s deficit will be $641 billion, down $500 billion from last year’s near­ly $1.2 trillion level. The cbo further shows federal spending in 2009 when obama entered office was 25.2 percent of gdp. it shrunk to 22.8 percent last year and is projected to fall to 21.5 per­cent at the end of obama’s term in 2017. 
notwithstanding experts, non­partisan forecasts or current, concrete examples of the double-dip recessions suffered by european nations that have adopted extreme austerity measures, the gop considers deficit reduction only through the prism of spending cuts. house speaker John boehner and house republicans are fixated solely on reducing the debt through governmen­tal cuts rather than fixing the economy based on proven historical principles. keynesian economics, for example, rec­ognizes active government intervention in the marketplace and monetary policy as the best method to support employ­ment, ensure economic growth and create stability, especially during reces­sionary downturns. when the house gop disregards established principles for their slogans, they are like the ship, californian, watching the distress flares of the Titanic without understanding or initiating any timely actions. 
The gop salivates at any opportunity to initiate their long-time obsession of decimating governmental functions. They refuse to acknowledge that under president obama’s watch, federal taxes sunk to their lowest levels since the 1950s. The federal deficit also steadily decreased to currently four percent of gdp, about the level when reagan left office after reagan’s peak of six percent in 1983. 
so it begs the question, “at what point do we label our elected officials stupid for ignoring basic historical economic principles stripped of rhetorical spin?” obviously mere historical facts will not convince them. They do not study how our civil war or either world war national debts were paid down. They could care less that republicans cut some world war ii taxes yet reduced the debt by a third through other taxes or that we survived our all-time world war ii high of 113 percent of gdp debt through economic expansion, not with increased taxes. in fact, by 1962, just 17 years after the war, wwii debt had been reduced back to the pre-war 1934 level. 
The only way to educate the gop is through cruel, calculated and cold-hearted cuts in their own backyards 
— the opposite of keynesian econom­ics can offer another shocking punch like last november’s election eve. The president should surgically exact mas­sive federal cuts in gerrymandered republican districts to force gop mem­bers out of their current stupor. 
speaker boehner last Monday an­nounced, “well, Mr. president, you got your tax increase. it’s time to cut spend­ing here in washington.”
 The president should answer, “Fine, we’ll begin in your district.” 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and pub­lic affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column ap­pears every other Friday. Contact him at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
(Political) science and faith 

Jack Rooney 
The liberal Medium 

aside from the whole no meat on Fridays thing, i really love lent. lent always coin­cides with some of the busiest days of my year, but it also provides a constant remind­er to keep my life centered on god and to place my trust and faith in him. lent, in my opinion, is also the best time for reflection. This lent, my reflective thoughts repeat­edly return to the one issue i struggle with most: reconciling my faith with my political beliefs. 
as a liberal i am frequently led to believe, through the media and occasionally in per­son, that some of my specific political beliefs are not only wrong, but also immoral. as a catholic, i constantly struggle with these implications and search for some source of reconciliation between these two sets of beliefs i hold so close to my heart. i struggle with going to mass and hearing a homily in which the priest tells me that if my politi­cal views don’t line up with catholic social teaching, then my conscience wasn’t formed correctly. i struggle with seeing prominent catholics who should be my role models de­nying adoption rights to loving and capable gay couples and pontificating on the im­morality of a healthcare law that would help millions of people who desperately need it. More than anything though, i struggle with the notion that a republican vote is a vote for Jesus and a democratic vote is a vote against him. 
despite it all, i still believe and still argue, in order to be good, conscious christians, we must be liberal. welfare, for example, falls under frequent attack from conserva­tives, who claim people abuse the system. it was Jesus, though, who said in the gospel of Matthew, “whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers and sisters of mine, you did for me.” some may argue this is a call for charity and not government-run welfare, but charity alone cannot help the poorest among us receive the equal oppor­tunity all americans should claim as their birthright. 
as catholics, we must also advocate for workers and defend their right to organize and receive fair pay. as the compendium of the social doctrine of the church states, workers have “the right to a just wage … [and] the right to assemble and form asso­ciations.” The compendium also states that workers have “the right to appropriate sub­sidies that are necessary for the subsistence of unemployed workers and their families,” which sounds remarkably similar to the un­employment insurance republicans tried to drastically reduce in 2011. 
Furthermore, we as catholics must de­fend the basic human rights of immigrants, especially those who come from the most abject of circumstances. pope John paul ii, on world Migration day in 1996, said we should look beyond the law when it comes to illegal immigration and recognize and respect the humanity and dignity of all immigrants. 
all of these examples show that in order to be good catholics acting with christ as our guide, we must, at least to some extent, be liberal. and while i’m on my liberal soapbox, i might as well drift out into far left field. brace yourselves. For those on the christian right who believe capitalism is unfailing and entirely just, i should remind you that the early christian church was a communal society (acts 2 and 4, people. read up). and for those who argue homosexuality is a sin, i should remind you Jesus never once ad­dressed homosexuality one way or the other. and for the love of god, will the right-wing hacks who claim this country was founded on Judeo-christian values please pick up a high school history book. perhaps more than anything, though, i must argue that conservatives in this country cannot mo­nopolize morality because there are mil­lions of faithful, compassionate liberals who work just as hard to bring the justice of god into the world. 
all of these issues, however, are drastically overshadowed and forgotten because most liberals, including me, believe when it comes to abortion, the decision rests with women. don’t get me wrong, i believe life begins at conception and i believe each abortion in this country is a tragedy and, to some extent, a sin. we must recognize, however, that the choice for a woman to abort a pregnancy or not is one of the most excruciatingly difficult decisions anyone will ever have to make. i pray each and every day for women who must face this decision and i pray they make the decision that is best for them and the life inside of them. i cannot, however, bring myself to impose my views on these women because i will never find myself in their position, and therefore cannot even begin to understand it. i find vice president Joe biden, one of the nation’s most prominent catholics, sums up my position perfectly by saying, “My religion defines who i am … but … i do not believe that we have a right to tell other people that women can’t control their body.” 
The viewpoint page of The observer can’t even begin to allow me to describe my inter­nal struggle with faith and politics, though. This issue is something i will contemplate and question for the rest of my life. in the meantime, i along with anyone in a similar position should find comfort in the words of Thomas Merton, who wrote, “My lord god, i have no idea where i am going. i do not see the road ahead of me. i cannot know for cer­tain where it will end … but i believe that the desire to please you does in fact please you.” 
Jack Rooney is a freshman studying political science. He can be contacted at jrooney1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | FRIDAY MARCH 1, 2013 | ndsMcobserver.coM 


By MADDIE DALY 
scene writer 

as i sit at my three-by-three cubicle in the library trying to crank out that eight page paper worth almost half of my grade, getting ideas from the love proclamations and scribbled out curse words engraved on the four-decade-old desk, i refuse to look around me be­cause of how depressing the sight will be.  There will be an engineer to my left, pulling out his or her hair over a programming assignment, a political science major slaving over a 50-page reading assignment and the guaran­teed table of business majors arguing over a group project and cramming for a 6 p.m. exam.  basically, the two weeks before spring break are com­pletely occupied with endless tests and papers, leaving everyone stressed and miserable. 
in case you are not yet of age to re­lieve your stress with an oversized glass of wine, you are probably look­ing for an alternative way to clear your mind.  lucky for you, i have compiled a list of some of the best stress relievers out there, perfect for anyone looking to take their mind off the daunting to-do list during midterms week. 
The catnap: what better way to rid your stress that to catch up on some much-needed sleep for 30 minutes in between classes. as long as you aren’t one of those people who need 17 alarms, a screaming roommate and a bucket of cold water poured on your face to wake you up on time, you will be able to nap and wake up rejuvenat­ed and ready to study without needing gallons of coffee. 
old-fashioned nintendo 64: Trade in the Xbox 360 for your five-pound game console from 1996, untangle the chords to your multi-colored rumble-pack­equipped controllers and take your pick from the array of Mario-themed games with horrible graphics and obnoxious music.  a quick lap around Moo Moo Farm in Mario kart is the perfect five-minute study break, so start your en­gines, on your mark, get set, go. 
yoga: even if you have never done a single downward dog in your life, there is no better way to get rid of that hunched-over back ache than to do some physical activity.  yoga also in­volves a lot of lying down and closing your eyes, which is very similar to no. 1 on this list, but can still be categorized as exercise.  in case you don’t happened to live in Mcglinn hall like i do and have a yoga teacher coming to instruct a group lesson this saturday, you will have to look elsewhere for some guide­lines.  roll out your mat and youTube a 20-minute yoga video to straighten out your slouched posture.  you will feel re­laxed and stress-free, at least until you dive back into your studying. 
netflix: warning: to participate in this stress reliever you must have an enormous amount of self-control, because starting a new series on netflix can be fatal during midterms week due to its addictive nature. however, picking one of the instant watch movies from the somewhat-slim collection provides the perfect hour­and-a-half break during an intense study session.  save the series for your free time over spring break when it’s completely acceptable to devote an en­tire day to the watching the complete second season of “Friday night lights” for the fourth time. 
spa treatment: ok ladies, this one might be skewed toward us, but hey, guys can get massages too.  if you missed the free manicures, pedicures and mas­sages in laFortune on Thursday, that doesn’t mean you can’t still take ad­vantage of these excellent stress reliev­ers.  even though it requires some cash, eddy street commons has a nail salon that will take away your stress, at least during the 30y-minute mani/pedi. 
Food: nothing says “i have been hopelessly studying for hours” like some greasy domino’s pizza or a heap of golden dragon fried rice with an egg roll on the side.  don’t feel guilty about spending the extra money on a meal out or eating that extra slice of pepperoni, you deserve it.  Top it off with a trip to let’s spoon – if you’re lucky enough you will have the name of the day and get free fro-yo. 
instead of wasting your study breaks on Facebook and Twitter, reading complaint after complaint in statuses and tweets about how stressed every­one is, try some of these fun and relax­ing stress relievers to take your mind away from your work, even if just for a few minutes.  go irish, beat Midterms! 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 

SAM STRYKER | The Observer 

The observer | FRIDAY MARCH 1, 2013 | ndsMcobserver.coM 


By SAM STRYKER 
assistant Managing editor 

she’s an oscar-winning actress. she’s naturally beautiful. she grew up in the spotlight and is now happily married. arguably, her most famous role to date was playing a disney princess. 
yet somehow, anne hathaway is the most hated woman in america. 
alright, so that statement is a bit of an exaggeration. but if you were on Twitter while watching the oscars ceremonies, the vitriolic statements being made about hathaway as soon as she stepped on the red carpet would make her seem more like a puppy killer and less like an award-winning actress. 
confession: i’m not an anne hathaway fan. i honestly think all the venomous insults thrown her way are comical. but at the same time, the spiteful behavior directed her way has to have some basis in reason. 
naturally as the investigative reporter i am, i took it upon myself to unearth what makes anne hathaway such an easy target for america’s ire. 
The simple answer: she’s too perfect. 
it sounds like a cop-out answer, but it isn’t. i’m not saying people are jealous of hathaway because she is so perfect. yes, 

By COURTNEY COX 
scene editor 

i never quite got into “The real housewives of orange county”, but once bethenny Frankel entered my world as the snarky and witty singleton on “The real housewives of new york” i was hooked on the entire franchise. 
i couldn’t help myself. This series filled with menopausal dramatics and vino galore brought me both so much thrilling anxiety that i couldn’t look away. 
From the seemingly classy “real housewives of new york” like countess luann de lesseps to the incredibly eth­nic Manzo clan on the “real housewives of new Jersey,” i loved to watch and judge them all. 
The series seemed so glamorous but ina staged the way. we knew that these stars were not the truly wealthiest mem­bers of their social circles, but we still fixated on them nonetheless. 
That is until the introduction of the most lavish series of the entire franchise 
— “The real housewives of beverly hills.” 
These women have real money, and i was floored from the beginning that she does have it all — husband, healthy career, good looks. but she doesn’t do anything in an “awesome” way. she’s basic. 
hathaway is sort of like the annoying girl in class who always does the read­ing, always come prepared and always talks during the class. even the teacher gets tired of her sometimes. she has no clue how crazy she drives everyone else in the class. 
Meanwhile, you woke up 10 minutes before class — in the outfit you wore to Fever last night. That’s how america feels about anne hathaway. 
it’s sad in a way, because hathaway’s career in a way has gotten worse just as it has gotten better. she captured our hearts in her role as Mia Thermopolis in “The princess diaries.” in that movie, she was quirky, funny and relatable. she had her imperfections, but she was also a princess. 
but as hathaway chose more chal­lenging roles and became more devot­ed to her craft, she started to drive us insane. her role as a recovering addict in “rachel getting Married” won her critical acclaim. it also was perhaps the most uncomfortable performance in easily the most miserable movie i have ever seen. she got dominated by Meryl 
they could live so ornately. perhaps the most fascinating of all the beverly hills billionaires is lisa vanderpump. 
The saucy brit was so popular in the first two seasons for her tongue-in­cheek commentary and wry wit. 
she also lived like a princess. her house is filled with roses and rosé at all times. her husband ken is always at her beck and call, and even giggy, her tiny pomeranian with alopecia, is dripping in diamonds. 
she runs two of beverly hills’ hippest restaurants, villa blanca and sur. 
villa blanca is the classy white washed upscale restaurant popular with the “la­dies who lunch” set and sur is the trendy west hollywood restaurant that lisa de­scribes as being the place you “take your mistress.” 
i marveled at the spectacle lisa pro­duced in organizing her only daugh­ter pandora’s wedding to former south bend townie Jason, and i continue to love lisa on this year’s season of the “real housewives,” despite her unlikely alliance with the slightly trashy brandi glanville. 
Much like the newest addition to the “beverly hills” cast, yolanda Foster, lisa cuts through the pettiness of the streep in “The devil wears prada” (but then again, who could ever match up to Meryl?) and she showed up in “The dark knight rises” this past summer in a slightly miscast role as catwoman. 
but the final straw was her turn as the dying prostitute Fantine in “les Miserables.” disclosure: i thought “les Mis” was an awful contender in the best picture category. it was loud, it was long and clunky. i felt like i was being hit over the head with a brick for nearly three hours while watching it. There wasn’t anything new or compelling about “les Mis.” 
hathaway wasn’t onscreen very long in the movie — spoiler alert: disease-ridden prostitutes don’t have very long lifespans — yet the role earned her best supporting actress  at sunday’s academy awards. hathaway was widely praised for her supposedly tear-inducing rendi­tion of “i dreamed a dream” in the film. in all honesty, susan boyle sang a bet­ter version when she first appeared on “britain’s got Talent.” hathaway sang it because she is a perfectionist and want­ed to win an oscar. boyle sang it because she was a frumpy 50-year old cat lady who had never been kissed. who would you rather root for. 
when hathaway stepped on stage to 
bickering cast with her european blunt­ness and refusal to scream like a child at another grown woman. 
This adoration of lisa led me to em­brace her newest venture on bravo – “vanderpump rules.” 
The television show followed the staff of sur as they navigate their incestuous romantic relationships and pursuit of fame in a town where everyone is trying to get their big break. 
while lisa initially drew me in, i stayed for the salacious storylines and unceasing dramatics. 
The season started off introducing au­diences to the most vile of all casts. no one in sight seemed to be good-natured and both the men and women were compulsively obsessed with their physi­cal appearance. 
arguably the stars of the show, Jax and stassi are seemingly the power couple of sur. Jax is a model and stassi is a fashion blogger — but neither profession pays the bills enough for them to quit their jobs as a bartender and a waitress. 
They get in fights constantly because of Jax’s wandering eye and stassi’s mis­trust. They fight in the restaurant, in vegas and even on a parade float in the middle of a gay pride parade. They accept her award, the first thing she said was “it came true,” as if she were shocked to be winning an award she had been the front-runner in for months. um, sorry to burst your bubble anne, but if you truly were surprised about winning, you were the only person in the room who felt that way. sally Field, who was also nominat­ed for the award, made an appearance in a skit with host seth McFarlane earlier in the evening where the two went on a tryst because even Field admitted she knew hathaway would win. 
it’s that false modesty that really both­ered me. apparently hathaway prac­ticed the speech beforehand to stave off the hatha-haters that make her life so miserable. and she still failed; delivering a speech that came across as fake. 
it’s sort of funny that we live in a world where the actress who stumbles onto stage and admits to taking a shot be­fore walking into the pressroom (hey, Jennifer lawrence!) is revered while hathaway, who is glossy and seemingly without imperfections aside being an in­sufferable know-it-all is lambasted. 
but anne, i’ll take you back if you say “sorry” with M&M’s spelled out over a pizza. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
are dysfunctional even in their best moments. 
at their worst they decide to part ways after allegations of infidelity and spend the rest of the season attempting to hurt each other by beginning relationships with different staff members at sur. 
stassi’s friend laura leigh becomes enamored with Jax’s smooth talking an­tics and betrays her friend by starting a very public flirtation with him in front of stassi. 
laura leigh’s ultra-high voice and neurotic demeanor is beyond entertain­ing in its own right and made for one heck of a season’s end. 
stassi ping-pongs back and forth between Jax and his fellow bartender Frank. when Frank is fired at sur for disrespecting a customer, stassi real­izes she might have only been into him out of convenience’s sake and they fiz­zle out. 
The cast will no doubt attempt to cap­italize on their bravolebrity status to skyrocket them to fame, but after a such a juicy season my only wish is that they never become famous enough to quit their day jobs.  
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox@nd.edu 
SARA SHOEMAKE  | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Phelps made his sport matter 



Mary Green 
sports writer 
Editor’s note: This is the fifth in a 12-part series discussing the defining sportsman (or woman) of this century. Here, Mary Green argues for Michael Phelps. Join the discussion on Twitter by using #DefiningSportsman 
on the evening of august 11, 2008, millions of americans were tuned into the same channel, watching the same sporting event and, above all, yelling at their Tv screens. 
no, they weren’t watching a late-season push for the playoffs in the Mlb. it wasn’t a preseason nFl game, with fans eager to see promising draft picks and new offseason acquisitions. instead, it was a swimming race. 
but now that i say that, you know exactly what i’m talking about: the men’s 400-meter freestyle relay at the beijing olympics. For the first three legs of the race, it seemed as though Michael phelps’s quest for a record eight olympic gold medals would inevitably end at the hands of alain bernard and his haughty French squad. 
enter Jason lezak, who swims the fastest split in history in that relay and barely out-touches the Frenchman next to him, playing hero that night by preserving his­tory in the making for phelps. 
his teammates in the water cube hooted and hollered as they saw the number one flash on the board next to the name “usa,” and americans across the country celebrated with them. 
so now i ask you: before phelps had burst onto the international sports scene, would you have cared that much about a swim race? 
For most people, the answer would probably be no. but phelps changed all of that. with his rivet­ing attempt to capture eight gold medals in beijing and outpace Mark spitz’s seven-gold medal heroics of the 1972 Munich games, phelps captivated a countless number of people around the world. 
you didn’t have to be an american to follow his spellbind­ing storyline. you didn’t even have to be a sports fan. with appear­ances on the covers of popular magazines such as Time and gQ and feature segments on every national news show, it would have been difficult to not know who phelps was that summer. 
phelps was the talk of the beijing games. while Misty May and kerri walsh dominated on the sand and nastia liukin tumbled her way to an all-around gold, view­ers still wanted to know, ‘when is Michael’s next race?’ 
even the pettiest phelps-related headlines grabbed our atten­tion. his unbelievably calorie-laden breakfast. his trademark headphones that he donned before every race. his mother’s new spon­sorship with women’s outfitter chico’s. 
but phelps’s star still shined brightly after beijing. of course, there was that particular set of pictures that drew national scru­tiny, but he admitted to making a mistake and apologized, showing that he still was the endearing baltimore boy that americans grew to love. 
he took some time off from the pool the next year, and we said ‘good for him, he deserves it.’ it’s difficult to imagine a similar reac­tion if James or Tom brady decided to do the same, but then again, phelps is in a league of his own. 
a few years passed with phelps continuing his success in inter­national meets while a possible rival emerged for the 2012 london games in ryan lochte, preparing americans for what was sure to be a fantastic string of showdowns at the next olympics. 
Then the most shocking turn of events occurred when phelps announced he would retire from swimming after london. This set the stage for a thrilling goodbye tour that saw phelps claim six more medals, four of them gold, to become the most decorated olympian of all time and arguably the greatest athlete the world has ever seen. 
scoff if you want at that last statement and say that Jim Thorpe or Muhammad ali or Michael Jordan is really the best. but think about it. phelps competed in one of the most grueling sports in the world, a sport in which partici­pants use nearly every muscle in their bodies while simultaneously holding their breath for extended periods. he completed exhaust­ing workouts day after day, and he perfected his stroke and his tim­ing through an infinite number of kicks, turns, starts and finishes. and he dominated in the pool like no other swimmer ever had or ever will. 
Michael phelps became the face of an entire sport and dramatically increased that sport’s popularity around the country. 
prior to phelps, would you have expected a swimmer to make the “sportscenter” Top 10 ever? would you have considered a swim­mer worthy of the title of “sports illustrated” sportsman of the year or associated press athlete of the year, twice? 
would you have even read this article, one entirely about a swim­mer, before Michael phelps? 
Then who better to be named the most defining sportsman of the 21st century? 
Contact Mary Greenat mgreen8@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Marlins, astros struggle to find spring hope 

Associated Press 

kissiMMee, Fla. — spring training is supposed to be a time of hope. 
unless you’re the houston astros. or the Miami Marlins. 
with no-name rosters and in the midst of massive rebuilding jobs, houston and Miami are more likely to be remembered as among the worst teams in re­cent history than for making an improbable run at the playoffs. 
The astros lost 107 games last year, after 106 defeats in 2011. houston’s main goal will be try­ing to avoid becoming the first team since the expansion new york Mets in the 1960s to lose at least 106 games in three straight seasons. 
“no one expects us to do well,” lucas harrell said Thursday, after pitching in a spring train­ing game against the new york yankees. “so, when we do well, it’s going to be kind of like, ‘oh, wow.’ i definitely think we have a chance to shock a lot of people this year.” 
brave words, especially when the astros face the additional burden of moving from the nl into what looks like the tough­est division in baseball, the al west. They’ll be matched regu­larly against two 2012 playoff teams — oakland and Texas — plus the high-priced los angeles angels, who have three of the game’s most dynamic players: albert pujols, Josh hamilton and Mike Trout. 
down in Miami, owner Jeffrey loria totally dismantled the Marlins after a disappointing debut season in a new stadium paid for largely with public tax dollars. he’s now a pariah in south Florida and a laughing­stock through the rest of the baseball, settling for a roster that might do pretty well in Triple-a 
— but not in the big leagues. 

“i’m still trying to learn their names,” said davey Johnson, manager of the nl 

FOR SALE 

110 E. Pokagon, Large home near ND. 574-277-3910 ask for Jackie 

east champion washington nationals. “i’m not even sure what position the names are go­ing in.” 
he’s not the only one. 

after trading away nearly all their high-priced players in one stunning offseason, the Marlins are prepared to send out a lineup that includes five players with less two full seasons in the big leagues, plus a rotation that has only one starter with as many as 10 wins in a season. 
“i feel like we have a plan,” first-year manager Mike redmond said. “will it take a few years? Maybe. but we feel like we have a plan that’s going to work with a lot of young play­ers and a lot of young talent. i’m looking forward to the challenge and the opportunity.” 
redmond keeps remind­ing his players he was one of 19 rookies on the 1998 Marlins, the remnants of a world series title team that was torn apart by a previous owner. Five years later, many of those young players were the centerpiece of another championship squad. 
of course, redmond probably doesn’t tell his team how the Marlins finished in ‘98 — 54-108. 
“it’s a fresh start,” he said. “at the end of the day, man, nobody gives us a chance to do any­thing. we have the ability to go out and surprise some teams. i think we’re a better team than people give us credit for. but at the end of the day, we’re got to go out there and prove that.” 
according to sTaTs, only 21 teams have finished with a win­ning percentage of .300 or less since 1900 — just two of those (the 1962 new york Mets, in their first season, and the 2003 detroit Tigers) in the 162-game era. To avoid joining that infamous list, Miami and houston will have to win 49 games this season, which might be a challenge. 
certainly, both teams can ex­pect to play before lots of empty seats. 
last season, the Marlins drew 
2.2 million to their retractable roof stadium, which was the third-highest total in franchise history but ranked only 12th in the nl and was far below ex­pectations. not surprisingly after the offseason purge, sea­son-ticket sales have slumped badly and Miami won’t come anywhere close to drawing that many fans in 2013. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
PERSONAL  2000s  Tony  Awards  
for  Best  Musical  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t  2012:  Once,  based  on  
go it alone. Notre Dame has many re- film  of  the  same  name  
sources in place to assist you. If you or  2011:  The  Book  of  Mormon  
someone you love needs confidential sup­ 2010:  Memphis  
port or assistance, please call Ann Whitall  2009:  Billy  Elliot  the  Musical  
at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550.  2008:  In  the  Heights  
For more information, visit ND’s website  2007:  Spring  Awakening  
at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  2006:  Jersey  Boys  
2005:Monty  Python’s  Spamalot  
2004:  Avenue  Q  
Fort Lauderdale Spring Breakers - join your  2003:  Hairspray  
ND Alumni Club in St. Patrick’s Parade  2002:  Thoroughly  Modern  Millie  
and Festival on Sat Mar 9. See http://fort­ 2001:  The  Producers  
lauderdale.undclub.org for details  2000:  Contact  



TRACK AND FIELD 
FENCING 

Irish host conference meet 
squad welcomes 


By AJ GODEAUX 
sports writer 
after a dominating per­formance at the notre dame duals on Feb. 23, notre dame will look to ride its momentum into the Midwest conference championships this weekend. 
The championships will take place over two days, with indi­vidual events slated for saturday and team bouts scheduled for sunday. 
along with the chance to cap­ture a third team conference title in four seasons, the meet serves as an opportunity to see how the squad stacks up against the best competition the region has to of­fer, particularly defending con­ference champion ohio state. The conference championships also serve as a way to gauge the team’s readiness for the ncaa championships, according to se­nior epeeist James kaull. 
“it’s the first tournament of the year that really counts for something tangible,” kaull said. “something’s blatantly on the line, and the pressure is the same, or at least similar, to the ncaa championships.” 
The buckeyes enter the meet ranked fourth in both the men’s and women’s polls, and the irish, who are no. 1 in the women’s rankings and no. 2 in the men’s, will attempt to knock off the team that robbed them of a third 

top competition 

consecutive conference champi­onship at last year’s meet. 
last weekend at the notre dame duals, neither notre dame side dropped a match, with the men going 7-0 and the women finishing the meet 6-0. after a 15-12 nailbiter against cleveland state, the men sailed through the rest of the meet, their next closest match a 20-7 dispatching of air Force. The women were equally dominant, and they looked the part of the nation’s top team in a 21-6 blow­out of no. 7 northwestern. 
For the men, senior foilist grant hodges racked up an impressive 17 victories on the day, only dropping three bouts, while sophomore epeeist ashley severson went a perfect 12-0 for the lady irish, one of 12 total 
paid adverTiseMenT 

irish fencers who went undefeat­ed with at least five decisions. 
kaull said the team is more mindful of the tournament this year, adding that having three re­turning olympians who couldn’t compete last year– seniors foilist gerek Meinhardt and epeeist courtney hurley and freshman foilist lee kiefer – certainly helps. 
“That makes me very confi­dent,” kaull concluded. “i think we can win. actually, i think we will win.” 
The irish begin their champi­onship pursuit at the castellan Family Fencing center in the Joyce center saturday with in­dividual events, continuing sunday with team bouts. 
Contact AJ Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 

By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 

with the ncaa indoor cham­pionships just a week away, a select group of top athletes from around the country will make one last attempt to qualify for the championship at this week­end’s alex wilson invitational. 
while the invitational is not as large as other irish home meets, it will still feature top competition. athletes from teams like oregon, penn state, Texas and princeton will com­pete, either tuning up for the national championships or are trying to hit the qualifying mark needed to attend. 
Many irish athletes that have already qualified will still be competing this weekend. 
“at this point in the season, everyone is peaking and can recover quickly and compete again the next week,” senior captain and pole vaulter chrissy Finkel said. “only the top 16 go [to ncaas] so you always want a faster time or a farther throw, to get a better seeding and if you’ve just barely made it, to make sure no one passes you on the last weekend.” 
The irish women are com­ing off a big east title, which has significantly improved the team’s focus and confi­dence, Finkel said. sophomore Jade barber, who was named most outstanding performer at the big east championship, is ranked in the top 25 nation­ally in both the 60-meter hur­dles and the 4x400 meter relay and will compete in both this weekend. 
“we could not have been more excited to win [big east],” Finkel said. “it has helped our enthusiasm and motivation so much.” 
on the men’s side, the irish boast three of the fast­est 400-meter runners in the country, all of whom are on the 4x400 meter relay squad that has already broken the school record this year. Junior patrick Fenney, who is also competing in the 400-meter at the national championship, will lead senior brendan dougherty, junior Jarrod buchanon and sopho­more chris giesting as they try to qualify this weekend. 
but for many of the irish ath­letes, the indoor season is over. Most of the squad has already begun preparing for the out­door season, which starts in late March, and this weekend’s meet is important for them as well. some will use it as an op­portunity to set a new personal record, while others will be there to encourage their team­mates, Finkel said. 
“people that have been run­ning well in practice will compete so they can set a big [personal record] and maybe qualify for the big east outdoor [championship],” Finkel said. “absolutely we’ll all be there to cheer our teammates on.” 
The alex wilson invitational will take place today and saturday at the loftus center, starting at 5 p.m. this afternoon. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2013 | ndsMcobserver.coM 

MEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish maintain healthy lead 


By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
The irish closed the second day of the big east championships in first place, more than 100 points ahead of the next contender. 
notre dame enters the week­end with 367 points, far ahead of second place louisville (224) and pittsburgh with 191.5. 
Junior Frank dyer continued his winning performances, tak­ing first place in both the 50­yard freestyle and the 500-yard freestyle. he is the first athlete to ever win both events at the com­petition. sophomore Zachary stephens joined dyer in the spotlight, winning the 200-yard individual medley. The irish took first, second and third in the 500­yard freestyle and the 200-yard individual medley. 
“This is a little surprising, but guys are just swimming out-of­their-minds fast,” senior chris Johnson said. “with all that, it’s hard not to be positive.” 
The morning began with preliminaries in the 500-yard freestyle, 200-yard individual medley and the 50-yard free­style, with the finals taking place Thursday evening. Junior Frank dyer took the spotlight in the preliminaries, resetting his own team record in the 50-yard free­style. he broke his time of 19.84 from last year’s big east champi­onships with a new time of 19.78. 
in the finals, he took the com­petition to the next level, break­ing the record yet again in his 
19.62 second win. 
in the 500-yard freestyle, notre dame sent five swimmers into the championship race. Two-time defending champion dyer took first in the finals, com­ing back from a sixth place finish in the preliminaries. he dropped his prelim time of 4:26.36 to in the finals 4:20.53. sophomore kevin hughes closed in behind him in 4:23.67 to take second place and sophomore brennan Jacobsen came in almost im­mediately after with a time of 
4:23.71 to take third. 
Joining dyer, hughes and Jacobsen were sophomores John nappi, who took fifth in the fi­nals at 4:25.09, and Matthew deblasio, who took seventh in 4:28.55. 
The irish again sent five swimmers to the finals for the 200-yard individual medley and swept the medal places. stephens won the event, cutting his preliminary time of 1:46.56 
to 1:45.41. senior bill bass came in less than a half second later, taking second in 1:45.78. Junior colin babcock rounded out the top spots in 1:46.40 to take third. sophomore cameron Miller took sixth in 1:49.11 and sophomore patrick olson came in seventh in 1:50.98. 
notre dame closed the night by taking second place in the fi­nals for the 200-yard freestyle re­lay. dyer, stephens, senior John Mcginley and bass teamed up for the 1:18.91 finish. 
“we are very confident going into the next two days,” Johnson said. “we actually only get stron­ger from here.” 
The 3-meter diving prelimi­naries will begin today at 10 
a.m. The day will also include preliminaries for the 400-yard individual medley, the 100­yard butterfly, the 200-yard freestyle, the 100-yard breast­stroke and the 400-yard med­ley relay. The championships will close saturday with the 1650-yard freestyle, 200-yard backstroke, 100-yard freestyle, 200-yard breaststroke and 200­yard butterfly. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
notre dame falls to second, 332-302 

By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 

coming off a huge day wednesday, perhaps it was only natural for a letdown to occur on Thursday for the women’s swimming and diving team. while the irish won two individ­ual events and finished second in the 200-yard free relay. They also fell out of first place, and now trail louisville 332-302. 
“i think we did pretty well, but not as well as we had hoped,” sophomoreswimmer emma reaney said. “[There were a] few bumps in the morning swim, we were really trying to get as many people in to finals as possible, and we did the best we could with what we had. honestly, it was probably our worst day spe­cialty wise, but tomorrow should be a really good day for us.” 
perhaps more than anything else, reaney feels the team’s problems are not in the pool, but in its head. 
“Just being from notre dame, and the type of people notre dame attracts, the type-a per­sonalities, the perfectionist i know i am, we get in our heads a lot,” reaney said. “we need to remember we do this everyday and not panic; i know we can be better.” 
even though it was a tough day for the team, reaney still saw a lot of positives. 
“[sophomore bridget] casey’s 500-free was really awesome,” reaney said. “she started in 15th and moved up to 12th and was fighting the whole way. we’re all really proud of her.” 
perhaps reaney is simply hard to please. even after she won the 200-yard individual medley iM, reaney still wasn’t satisfied. 
“i won and dropped a second [off my time] from this morning, but i’m still a second and a half off my best time,” reaney said. “it’s disappointing, but i try not to dwell on it because i know i can get better at ncaas.” 
reaney has already qualified for the ncaas in three events, the 100-yard and 200-yard breast and the 200-individual medley, but her proudest moment of the tournament occurred last night when she helped a senior earn her first big east title. 
“last night i was really hap­py,” reaney said. “i dropped five seconds off my best time in the 200-freestyle, which really isn’t my event so i was proud to help lead them to victory, espe­cially for Jaime Malandra, who’s a senior who has never won at big east. so i’m really happy for that.” 
despite the rough day in the pool Thursday, reaney is still pleased with the team’s overall performance. 
“personally i’m really proud of my team, i know we can really dominate in tomorrow’s events,” reaney said.  “our confidence level is still pretty high even though were losing by a little, and then the last day is just give it all you got.” 
reaney said she knows how to fix her squads’ slump. 
“we just have to make sure we roll with the punches,” reaney said. “whether it’s bad or good, don’t dwell on it too long. That’s something our coaches have been talking to us about, don’t get caught up in anything.” 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 

paid adverTiseMenT 



ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 7, wesTern Michigan 0 
Notre Dame rolls from start to finish 

WEI LIN | The Observer 
Irish junior Jennifer Kellner prepares to return a shot during Notre Dame’s 4-3 loss to Purdue on Feb. 15 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Kellner won 6-2, 6-1 at No. 2 singles. The Irish defeated Western Michigan, 7-0, on Thursday and will host a pair of weekend matchups against DePaul and Duke. 
improve playing in pressure was proud of all the irish of the series. Mcgaffigan won to come out to support us. 

By KATIE HEIT 

sports writer situations,” Mcgaffigan said. performances. at no. 4 singles, allowing only There will be free bagels and “This win gives us some con-“we all played well in the two points in two sets and win-the leprechaun will be there to 
after several close match-fidence going into our two match,” Mcgaffigan said. ning 6-1, 6-1. sophomore Molly lead cheers.” es, the irish had a chance to match weekend.” “They are a scrappy team, so o’koniewski also only allowed The irish will be back in ac-catch their breath, dominat-notre dame took an early we had to stay focused the two points in her 6-2, 6-0 victo-tion saturday when they take ing western Michigan, 7-0, at lead, grabbing the doubles whole time.” ry over freshman kelsey king. on depaul on saturday at 3:30 home Thursday. point with an 8-2 win  from in singles, the irish con-Mcgaffigan said the win p.m., followed by their sunday 
senior chrissie Mcgaffigan junior Jennifer kellner and tinued their line of domi-gives notre dame confidence match against duke at 11 a.m. said the close matches have Mcgaffigan at no. 1 doubles nance. each member of the going into its signature series both matches will be held at helped the team to focus from and an 8-6 victory from juniors notre dame team won in two against duke on sunday. the eck Tennis pavilion. start to finish. Julie sabacinski and britney sets. no. 42 sanders defeated “we are so excited for our 
“i think that all of our close sanders. broncos junior nini sujashvili duke match,” Mcgaffigan said. Contact Katie Heit at matches have helped us to Mcgaffigan said she 6-1, 7-5 in the closest match “we hope to get a lot of people kheit@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

irish aim for big Ten revenge against wisconsin 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
The irish will have the chance to take a break at the beginning of this weekend — their first match won’t be until sunday afternoon, when they travel to Madison to play wisconsin. 
no. 29 notre dame (6-5) will hit the road for the second con­secutive weekend, facing another big Ten team after falling 7-0 to no. 7 ohio state last weekend in columbus, ohio. 
The buckeyes took an early lead by claiming the doubles point, then continued racking up points as they won every singles match. Freshman Quentin Monaghan stepped up for the irish on the no. 2 court, fighting for three long sets, but ultimately lost. 
“osu is one of the toughest teams in college tennis right now and one of the toughest teams we will play all season,” sophomore Mike Fredericka said. “we saw by playing them that we have the tal­ent to compete and hang with the best out there.” 
This weekend notre dame looks for a fresh start against the badgers. 
wisconsin climbed in the rank­ings over the past week, jumping from the no. 75 spot to their cur­rent no. 59 after a 4-3 comeback win over big Ten rival Minnesota. at the time of the upset victory, Minnesota stood ranked at no. 40. 
The badgers have only lost the doubles point twice, including once against Minnesota. This season, the irish have often strug­gled to win the doubles point, but have placed more emphasis on the opening point of the match over the past few weeks. 
underclassmen have sup­ported the badgers’ lineup throughout the season, particu­larly freshmen Jakhongir Jalalov and alexander kokorev, who often play in the no. 5 and no. 6 spots, respectively. both badgers won their singles match 6-4, 6-4 against Minnesota. 
prior to Minnesota, wisconsin had only faced one ranked oppo­nent, falling 5-2 to no. 18 clemson (no. 51 at the date of the contest). 
notre dame hopes to add an­other loss to a ranked opponent to wisconsin’s standings. 
The irish will continue to seek leadership from no. 97 junior greg andrews, no. 102 senior blas Moros, and Monaghan. 
“This week we have concen­trated on playing sets in order to prepare for the match physically and mentally as well as main­taining focus in order to give us the best chance for success on the road,” Fredericka said. 
doubles play will begin against the badgers at 3 p.m. at the nielsen Tennis stadium in Madison, wis. on sunday. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2013 | ndsMcobserver.coM 

BASEBALL 

Irish head south for inaugural Baseball Classic 

By JOHN SANDBERG 
sports writer 
Fresh off a three-game sweep of Tulane in new orleans last weekend, notre dame gets back on the field today in the inaugu­ral usa baseball-irish classic in cary, n.c. 
The no. 22 irish (5-1) take on Massachusetts (0-0) at 3 
p.m. and will face off against Tennessee (3-5) in the nightcap of a doubleheader at 6:30 p.m. 
This weekend’s tournament gives notre dame an early season opportunity to defend its top-25 ranking. The irish haven’t been ranked among the nation’s top-25 teams since 2006 
Junior first baseman Trey Mancini is well aware of what the ranking means for the team. 
“it’s been seven years since we’ve been ranked, so it’s a big deal for the program,” Mancini said. “we’ve kind of been stuck in neutral for a while so it’s fi­nally good to get a higher rank­ing now.” 
That’s not to say the irish have reached their peak, he said. 
“we were in a meeting [Tuesday] and our coach just told us not to get too hung up on the ranking because we are only six games into a 56-game season,” Mancini said. “so we’re excited, but we’re still re­ally focused on trying to not make this the high point of the season. we still have a lot of work to do.” 
Mancini will be key for notre dame’s offensive success this weekend. Through six games he has provided the type of con­sistency the irish expect in the middle of their order. Mancini is batting .346 with one home run and five rbis and had a three-hit game last sunday against Tulane. 
“i hit best when i don’t try to do too much,” Mancini said. “sometimes i can get over ag­gressive and swing too hard and that’s when i start going down­wards. so far i’ve been trying to focus on one pitch at a time and picking good pitches to hit.” 
notre dame will have two more games over the week­end, squaring off against no. 25 virginia Tech (8-1) at 6 p.m. on saturday and will finish out the tournament against rhode island (0-8) at 11 a.m. on sunday. all games will take place at the usa baseball national Training complex. 
The irish classic was an­nounced by usa baseball in early november of last year. it features five teams in addition to notre dame, with the irish taking on all of them except for ohio. 
while this is the inaugural year for the irish classic, notre dame is no stranger to usa baseball. eight notre dame baseball alumni have been members of college, under-18, or under-16 national teams. 
The irish also had the chance to play a three-game series against hofstra at the national Training complex last season. 
several irish players and coaches recognize the unique relationship between notre dame and usa baseball. 
“For usa baseball to have a partnership with us is really an honor,” Mancini said. 
The pristine national Training complex was built in 2007 and features three train­ing fields and a stadium. 
“it was awesome,” Mancini said about playing at usa baseball’s complex last year. “The fields were in tip top shape. … it was just a really cool place and they did a great job with it. it’s just a state of the art facility all the way around.” 


Today, the irish will look to place top-25 rankings and all other distractions aside as they try to win both ends of the doubleheader and improve their season win total to seven. Mancini cited the team’s core of veteran leaders and high level of confidence as determining factors in doing just that. 
“we know that none of the teams we play this week­end care what our ranking is, they’re just going to play hard against us,” Mancini said. “our goal for this weekend is to win our own tournament which would be awesome. i think if we do that it will really make a statement and verify that [top­
25]ranking.” 

Massachusetts will throw out the first pitch of the usa baseball-irish classic in cary, 
n.c. at 3 p.m. today. 
Contact John Sandberg at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Notre Dame hopes to build off weekend sweep 
faced a number of tough op-opponents in Florida, the 

By LAURA COLETTI 

sports writer ponents this season, includ-irish have been working on ing then-no. 1 oklahoma. improving where they strug-
The irish will look to keep notre dame fell 7-5 to the gled last weekend. buntin their winning record intact sooners in nine innings, said the team has been sol-this weekend as they travel but buntin said taking the id defensively with few er-to kissimmee, Fla., to par-sooners to extra frames rors on the field, and it was ticipate in the diamond 9 helped to boost the team’s just a matter of time before citrus classic. confidence as it moves the bats started to heat up. 
notre dame (8-5) will forward. buntin also said notre dame 
square off with boston “The oklahoma game has continued to focus on its 
college, georgia Tech, liu showed us that if we are will-offensive output. 
brooklyn and Maryland. ing to fight for seven innings, “This week at practice we 
irish senior catcher and cap-we can beat any team at any have focused mainly on our 
tain amy buntin said she ex-point this season,” she said. offense and trying to get in 
pects the yellow Jackets to be notre dame can also be as many swings as possible,” 
the toughest competition. confident in the fact that buntin said. “we continued 
buntin added that this sophomore outfielder emilee to work on timely hitting, 
weekend will give notre koerner was named big east and defensive practices have 
dame a chance to build player of the week for her been short and concise this 
upon the rhythm it found performance last weekend. week.” 
last weekend, when the irish koerner has started all 13 notre dame will open the 
went 4-0. games for the irish and leads weekend against boston 
“last weekend our team the team with a .523 batting college on saturday at 2:30 
finally found our momen-average and 12 rbi. p.m. in kissimmee, Fla., be-
tum and put all parts of our “every time emilee was fore taking on georgia Tech 
game together,” buntin said. in the batter’s box this past at 4:45 p.m. The irish return 
“offensively and defensively, weekend, both dugouts knew to the field sunday to face 
we were solid. last weekend she was going to get a hit,” liu brooklyn at 11:15 a.m. 
gave us the confidence we buntin said. “each and every and Maryland at 1:30 p.m. 
needed to propel us through game she continues to get 
the rest of the season.” better and better.” Contact Laura Coletti at 
The irish have already in preparation for their lcoletti@nd.edu 



MEN’S LACROSSE 

irish face unc in home opener 

By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
after a 10-9 overtime victory at no. 8 penn state on sunday, no. 2 notre dame will hold its home opener saturday in arlotta stadium against no. 9 north carolina at 12 p.m. 
despite the recent cold and wet winter conditions, the irish (2-0) will brave the outdoors. but irish coach kevin corrigan does not see weather or venue as factors. 
“i think it’ll be the same tem­perature on our side of the field as it is on theirs,” corrigan said. “Those kinds of things, to be honest with you, you tend to worry about them and obsess about them. and then when the whistle blows you tend to forget about them.” 
because he was so focused on the game itself, corrigan said he did not realize it snowed the entire duration of notre dame’s season-opening 13-6 victory over duke on Feb. 16 in durham, n.c. 
“until i watched the film i didn’t realize that it had snowed throughout the whole game,” corrigan said. “it’s just not some­thing you’re focused on when the game starts. so we won’t spend much time worrying about it be­tween now and then. what we’re going to do is just worry about our execution.” 
part of that execution will en­tail slowing down the Tar heels’ offensive attack, which attempts to break out in transition and score in unsettled situations. 
“The challenge is first to stay out of [unsettled situations] and second to survive them when you can and, third, to try to match up with them and keep the game in kind of a group dynamic where we can defend them better and attach them better,” corrigan said. 

irish freshman Matt kavanagh and sophomore conor doyle have powered the notre dame attack through two games. kavanagh scored four goals in his collegiate debut against duke, and the rookie scored the game-winner sunday at penn state. against the nittany lions, doyle scored three goals and added an assist. 
in its third game of the young season, notre dame faces its third ranked opponent — all three from outside the big east. notre dame does not start the regular season with any tuneup games, according to corrigan, who along with the rest of the irish staff, intentionally crafts a tough schedule. 
“i want to play the best sched­ule that we can play every year because i think that gives you the best chance to become the best team you can become,” corrigan said. “ultimately, that’s the goal. we’re not pointing to a certain number of wins or anything else. if we become the best team we can become, then we have a chance to win a national cham­pionship at the end of the year.” 
north carolina (2-1) has start­ed the season with wins over Fairfield and air Force at home. in its only road game thus far, Feb. 16 against Massachusetts, the Tar heels fell 12-11. 
notre dame squares off against the Tar heels on saturday at noon in arlotta stadium. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
paid adverTiseMenT 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Team squares off with Dukes 


By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 
after defeating no. 13 ohio state 13-8 in its home opener wednesday, no. 9 notre dame hits the road again. The irish (2-0) will look to win their third straight tilt to open the season when they face duquesne on saturday in pittsburgh. 
during notre dame’s victo­ry over the buckeyes, the irish registered 14 draw controls to ohio state’s nine. irish coach christine halfpenny said pos­session will again be a key fac­tor against the dukes (2-1). 
“i think possession [is a key], the draw is going to be very important,” halfpenny said. “all season, you are going to hear me talk about possession and, again, capitalizing on second-chance opportunities because our defense is defi­nitely a force to reckon with, holding the no. 13 team in the country to eight goals. 
“it’s definitely a goal for us and we’re going to get right back to adjustments on the draw because obviously you can see that the momentum shifts coincided with when we were gaining possession on the draw.” 
Junior midfielder and co-captain Margaret smith led the irish on wednesday with four goals while also se­curing three draw controls and scooping up four ground 

balls.  smith  said  her  team­ 
mates  have  increased  her  
confidence.  

“i’m definitely a much more quiet person who leads by ex­ample, but having to step up vocally and realizing that i haven’t played a lot of offense in the past, but being able to step up and be confident,” smith said. “My teammates give me a lot of confidence to go out there and play hard.” 
duquesne enters saturday’s contest having lost its last game, 16-9, to no. 10 penn state on wednesday. duquesne ju­nior midfielder caitlin prince, however, scored six goals against the nittany lions and leads the dukes with 10 goals on the year. 
“we were really focused on looking at one opponent at a time — my assistants started looking at duquesne yester­day,” halfpenny said. “what do we know about them? They’re a strong opponent, very well-coached. They’re pretty methodical in their of­fenses and their defenses.” 
The irish hold an 8-0 record in the all-time series against duquesne and defeated the dukes 17-7 last year. however, notre dame needed a strong second-half rally after finding itself trailing 5-4 in the first half. according to halfpenny, the irish relish the opportuni­ty to play a tough opponent on the road and will need to pre­pare seriously for saturday’s matchup. 
“They definitely will have a great game plan against us, they always do. i go back to last year where it was a really close game — as a matter of fact, they were leading us for the better part of the first half and we had to again stay resil­ient and know that it was go­ing to be a long game and we weren’t going to win the game on one goal. 
“heading out to pittsburgh, we’re excited to get outside. it will be a cold game and it will be a tough matchup. They were a top team in the atlantic 10 last year and they’ll be a top team in the atlantic 10 this year as well.” 
The irish will face duquesne on saturday at noon at rooney Field in pittsburgh. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 




Hockey 
conTinued FroM page 20 
matchups this season, and the Falcons head into compton with momentum. 
“They grind, they have big bodies, they aren’t afraid to lay body,” junior defenseman shayne Taker said. “They have some skill up front. it’s going to be tough physically just like last weekend.” 
coming off two straight weekends on the road against top-10 teams, and with the playoffs just around the corner, the bowling green series seems to be a classic trap- game sce­nario.  The irish, however, still have a chance to gain ground in the conference standings and the ncaa tournament picture, so they will not be taking the weekend lightly. 
“we don’t want to go into the playoffs on a losing streak, or not confident. we’re going to go into these games like they’re the most important of the year, because they are,” Johnson said. “we definitely know we’re in for a battle because bowling green is a tough team to play against. They’re really gritty, and they don’t make it easy ever. we’ll need our ‘a’ game both nights.” 
after a stellar performance last weekend, saturday’s 1-1 shootout win in particular, ju­nior steven summerhays will get the start in goal Friday night. Jackson has left the pos­sible of Johnson getting the start on senior night however. regardless of which goalie is in net, the irish know that they must stay focused as they arrive at the climax of their season. 

“it’s all mental. we have to have a great week of prac­tice,” Taker said. “going into this week, i think we have to keep the confidence level up, but also not be too confident. we have to stick to the basics, what’s going to get us there, get us to the ncaas.” 
with the irish locked into at least third place in the ccha and the Falcons still battling for position, Jackson said ur­gency will be a key factor this weekend. 
“we’ve had a lot of emotion and physical games in the last few weeks, and this is no dif­ferent,” Jackson said. “we have to match bowling green’s des­peration, because they’re going to play with desperation.” 
The irish begin their final regular season home series against bowling green at 7:35 
p.m. on Friday at the compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
Identity 
conTinued FroM page 20 
orange, two games back of the hoyas and one game behind  the golden eagles. 
brey said sunday it’s amazing to consider notre dame is now fighting for a double-bye in the big east tournament and a league title after uncertainty engulfed the irish when Martin was ruled out indefinitely. 
The transformation has been highlighted by a new identity of defense and rebounding. cincinnati’s 41 points on sunday were the fewest ever scored by an irish opponent in big east play. The previous low of 42 points came against pittsburgh on Feb. 18. 
senior forward Tom knight has replaced the perimeter-oriented Martin in the starting lineup and, as a result, the irish have played more ‘three-around-two’ — two true post players surrounded by three men on the perimeter. 
senior center garrick sherman has worked his way back into the rotation off the bench and freshman forward Zach auguste has emerged as a high-energy force rebounding and defend­ing. between knight, sherman, auguste and senior forward and naismith player of the year candidate Jack cooley, notre dame has a four-pronged stable of big men that prides itself on toughness. 


“it is interesting,” brey said sunday of the new identity. “it is easy to say that when we are playing four big guys. when your four-man is more of a step out guy and not the physical banger, you’re going to be a little limited with how physical you can be. but we’ve got four big guys that can really lay the wood to people on screens and block outs. if one fouls out? no problem. … all four of them we’re really good [sunday].” 
The results of the new approach have been palpable. in their past two games, notre dame has out-rebounded the opposition 83-52 and held those two squads to 33­for-100 shooting from the field. The 6-foot-8, 290-pound gardner, meanwhile, was 7-for-7 from the field against the orange and drilled 12 of his 13 free throws. 
The irish tip off against the golden eagles on saturday at 2 p.m. at the bradley center in Milwaukee. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
Rematch 
conTinued FroM page 20 

well,” Mcgraw said. “but it’s a tough confer­ence, it’s a tough league and they had a great win over villanova, who was a ranked team at the time, so their certainly capable.” 
with a nationally-broad­cast match-up against no. 3 uconn on Monday and a 45-point win over providence already in the bag, it would be easy for the irish to overlook the Friars. but Mcgraw said she’s not worried about that happening. 
“i don’t really have to say anything,” Mcgraw said. “This team has great leadership with our upper­classmen and veteran play­ers. They understand how important this game is, and it’ll be their job to make sure they don’t look past [prov idence].” 
The game will be the second to last conference match-up of the season for the irish, who currently have a perfect 14-0 big east record. 
Tipoff against providence will be at 4 p.m. saturday at Mullaney gymnasium in providence, r.i. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The MephaM group 


LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTrick cross 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jason aldean, 36; ali larter, 37; eric lindros, 40; pat Monahan, 44 
Happy Birthday: Follow the path that is most stable. you may feel the urge to make impulsive moves, but in the end it will not bring you the results you hoped for. Make sure you personally take care of contractual business. allowing too many people to handle your affairs will not bring you the results you are looking for. your numbers are 6, 10, 17, 24, 31, 33, 69. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t get angry, get sassy. sitting around waiting for someone will only make you disgruntled. you’ll make new acquaintances that have far more to offer if you get out and do things you want instead of doing the boring things others are interested in. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): reorganize and redefine what it is you want to accom­plish. getting together with people will lead to solutions if you collaborate. love is on the rise and a rendezvous with someone you respect and admire will bring you added pleasure. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t give in under pressure. if someone demands too much of you, mentally or physically, put a stop to it. Taking on responsibilities that stand in the way of your own accomplishments will not benefit you. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take the unusual route or sign up for something that you know little about. heading down an obscure path will enrich your life and bring you in contact with someone who fits your personality and desires perfectly. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): concentrate on what needs to be done at home. pay atten­tion to money matters and the expenses you incur. spending recklessly could lead to some interesting stories. Make your dollar stretch. embrace impulse. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): share responsibilities with coworkers and personal partners. if you are willing to distribute work equally, you will build a solid relation­ship that will benefit you for years to come. push for what you want and you will receive. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): overreacting or taking on too much will be your downfall. don’t let your emotions lead you down a slippery slope. controlling your emotions will be necessary if you don’t want to damage a good working and pleasurable relationship. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a break and enjoy the people you like to spend time with most. nurture your relationships with friends, your lover or your chil­dren. getting involved in activities that inspire and motivate you will lead to creative projects and make new acquaintances that will bring you great pleasure. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): communication and travel will be costly. listen but don’t start a feud with someone who doesn’t share your opinions. learn from what’s being said and question your own beliefs. you may need to make a personal change and do something reckless yet fun. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): engage in activities that will allow you to readdress goals that you let fade away. refuse to let anyone put pressure on you to do some­thing you don’t care to do especially in a physical manner. plan your day based on your needs, someone else’s. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): go over your plans and readdress the changes you must make to your personal papers in order to head in a direction that will bring you greater happiness at home. Family and finances should be at the top of your to-do list. enjoy a night in to think on your personal matter. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): let your ideas grow and develop a plan that will secure a better life for you and those you love. Make your assets grow or cut losses by getting rid of deadweight. The moves you make now will help you prosper later. 


Birthday Baby: you are a doer. you are passionate, intense and unique. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


Make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2013 | ndsMcobserver.coM 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Identity theft 
Eyeing a double-bye, new-look Notre Dame squares off with No. 22 Marquette in Milwaukee 

By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
after stumbling to their third loss in four games — a 63-47 de­molition by georgetown on Jan. 21 — no. 21 notre dame was a team without an identity. 
nearly six weeks later, new-look notre dame (22-6, 10-5 big east) has reeled off seven wins in its last nine games heading into saturday’s pivotal conference matchup with no. 22 Marquette at the bradley center in Milwaukee. 
irish coach Mike brey an­nounced Thursday on his ra­dio show that graduate student forward scott Martin, who has missed the last nine games with knee soreness, will be shut down for the remainder of the season. 
Martin, who hasn’t played since that Jan. 21 thrashing by the hoyas, a game that seem­ingly thrust notre dame into the middle of a congested confer­ence. yet after a pair of physically dominant victories — a 51-42 win over pittsburgh on Feb. 18 and sunday’s 62-41 beat down of cincinnati — the irish have transformed into a bruising, de­fensive squad. 
“Maybe we’re finding our iden­tity here on that defensive end of the floor and rebounding the basketball,” irish coach Mike brey said after sunday’s win. 
The redefined irish will need to continue that defensive domi­nance, especially on the inte­rior, when they square off with the golden eagles (20-7, 11­4). Marquette downed no. 12 syracuse 74-71 on Monday, as junior forward davante gardner powered the golden eagles with a career-high 26 points to go along with eight rebounds off the bench. with the victory, Marquette extended its home winning streak to 24 games. 
“we know we have the ultimate challenge playing Marquette in their building with a 24-game home win streak, and senior day and all the above,” brey said dur­ing a teleconference Thursday. “This nucleus has loved big chal­lenges like this, especially on the road, and they’ve played well in a number of them so we’re excited about that challenge saturday.” 
Marquette, after besting the orange, catapulted into sole pos­session of second place in the big east, one game behind league-leading georgetown. with three games remaining in the regular season, notre dame is currently tied for fourth place with the 
see idenTiTy PAGE 18 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Squad readies for rematch 


By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
when providence visited the irish on Jan. 26, things didn’t go so well for the Friars. They lost, 89-44, on the day irish senior guard skylar diggins scored her 2,000th point while notre dame held the Friars’ star senior guard symone roberts to just 1-of-8 shooting. 
but irish coach Muffet Mcgraw doesn’t expect the Friars (7-20, 2-12 big east) to be so easy to handle this time around, when the no. 2 irish (26-1, 14-0) travel to providence for a late-season rematch. 
“i think it’s difficult when you beat a team once to have to play them again,” Mcgraw said. 
roberts leads the team with an average of 14.3 points per game, but she scored just two points in 27 minutes during her visit to south bend. 
“she’s a really good player. i think she’s an all-conference type player, and she’s having a really good year,” Mcgraw said. “and i think she’ll be ready to make things turn out differently for her team this year.” 
providence might’ve strug­gled in its first game against the irish, but its games since then have been just as disap­pointing. The Friars have lost seven of eight games since their trip to south bend, with their lone win coming in a double-overtime match at pittsburgh. 
but their 65-60 overtime win over villanova at home Jan. 23 is enough to make an opposing coach worry. 
“They’re a team that relies on their guards, and their guards have been playing 
see reMaTch PAGE 18 
HOCKEY 

irish face Falcons on senior night 

By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 

notre dame’s seniors will look to end their home careers on a winning note when they face off against bowling green this weekend. 
This weekend marks the fi­nal regular season series at compton Family ice arena for the no. 12 irish (19-12-3, 15-8-3-2 ccha), and the fi­nal time four seniors will play in front of the home crowd. goaltender Mike Johnson, de­fenseman sam calabrese, for­ward nick larson, and forward kevin nugent will be honored saturday night, and the team will wear green jerseys to com­memorate senior night. 
“it will be bittersweet for all of us, because it was a great ride,” Johnson said. “it will be interesting to see where we go from here.” 
irish coach Jeff Jackson sees players come and go every year, but it never gets any easier. 
“senior week is always a little bit sentimental for me,” Jackson said. “i really care about all four of these kids, they’re great kids, and have always been good team guys.” 
To properly send off the se­niors, the irish will have to best the Falcons (13-16-5,10-13-3-1), who have been on a tear re­cently after a slow start to the season. 
“They’ve been one of the best teams in the conference in the second half,” Jackson said. “They will present a lot of challenges. i expect them to be a team that will be tough to reckon with over the next few years.” 
The Falcons bring an aggres­sive, physical style of play to the ice. with a successful weekend, they will be able to clinch home ice in the ccha tournament. The teams split their first two 
see hockey PAGE 18 





