The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 39 | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Declan Memorial Fund aids students 
Sullivan family provides financial aid for low-income students in Chicago through Horizons for Youth 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
managing editor 
since declan sullivan’s death three years ago, the fund his fami­ly created in his memory has spon­sored 52 students at horizons for youth, a tutoring and scholarship nonprofit organization in chicago. 
“we’re really happy with what we’ve been able to accomplish with the funds over the past few years,” declan’s father, barry sullivan, said. “what pleases us the most is the idea that all these people who never had the chance to meet declan are remembering him and are helping us to remem­ber him in an appropriate way.” 
declan sullivan, a member of the class of 2012, died in october 2010 after a video tower from which he was filming football practice fell. he was double-ma­joring in marketing and Film, Television and Theatre, and he was a videographer for the football team. sunday marked the third anniversary of his death. when the sullivans received abundant support from their community after declan’s death, they decided to create something positive in his memory, according to allison ackerman, the communications manager at horizons for youth 
see declan PAGE 4 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 



ND participates in alcohol awareness week 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
The office of alcohol and drug education will celebrate national collegiate alcohol awareness week (ncaaw) on campus, health counselor bridget hoffmann said. 
hoffmann said the office will sponsor a poster campaign and a tailgate with mocktails, games and snacks on south Quad on wednesday from 5:30 to 7 p.m. 
“really, we’re promoting the fact that you can go to tailgates and not have to drink, or that you can have other things at tailgates and still have fun,” hoffmann said. “we’re giving students options.” 

hoffmann said the week does not necessarily focus on telling students not to drink at all, but rather to make smart decisions if and when they do choose to drink. 
“what this week is promoting [is] making those smart choic­es, whether it’s drinking but not drinking to get drunk, or drink­ing to be social,” she said. 
because halloween falls dur­ing ncaaw, the office is encour­ages students to be mindful of their alcohol consumption and safety, hoffmann said. 
“we’re giving students the idea that if they are going out to a costume party or a hall party, they are considering things like having just one drink, or mak­ing sure everyone gets back 
see ncaaw PAGE 5 


smc plans lgbTQ support events for ally week 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
in order to promote a “safe zone” for members of the les­bian, gay, bisexual, transgen­der and questioning (lgbTQ) community, the saint mary’s straight and gay alliance (saga) is sponsoring ally week through Friday. 
senior and saga president eileen cullina said ally week is 
see ally PAGE 4 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 



seniors spend fall break at thesis boot camp 
By TORI ROECK 
associate news editor 
while some seniors spent fall break at home, on a road trip or in las vegas, 29 mem­bers of the class of 2014 got a jump start on their theses in Thesis camp, sponsored by the hesburgh library and the university writing center. 
matthew capdevielle, di­rector of the university writing center, said the pro­gram, which began in fall 2010, is intended to help stu­dents get to know themselves as writers. 
“The goal of the camp is to help writers develop a clearer sense of their own best prac­tices and to build a healthy momentum that will see them successfully through 
the project,”  capdevielle  
said.  
The  writing  center  and  

the library achieved this goal by offering daily break­fast and lunch to students, making specialist librarians available to them, sponsor­ing speakers to address them and dedicating a special space for seniors within the library, capdevielle said. 
“we want to create an im­mersion experience for them … but it’s also an opportu­nity to develop some really healthy and productive writ­ing habits that will stick with them throughout the dura­tion of this project,” he said. 
laura bayard, graduate outreach services librarian and a coordinator of Thesis camp, said the program of­fers a perfect balance for students through non-man­datory programming and dedicated work time. 
“we know it works because the students inevitably say, ‘i had no idea i’d get this much done on my paper,’” bayard said. 
bayard said departmental librarians met with students to discuss specific resources available to them, and oth­er programming targeted science majors who have more quantitative projects. seniors also interacted with graduate students who were conducting dissertation re­search, she said. 
For those feeling pressure to complete their 
see Thesis PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 10 men’s soccer PAGE 16 women’s soccer PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What would you carve into your pumpkin? Megan Holthus Meg Garcia Shepherd 

sophomore 


sophomore holy cross hall holy cross hall 
“cam mcdaniel.” 

“waldo.” 
Michelle Ginter Liza Felix 

graduate student freshman 

off campus holy cross hall 

“The grinch.” 

“The red sox logo.” 

Patricia Bartlett 


Annie McGarrigle 
sophomore 

sophomore 
mcglinn hall 

holy cross hall 
“The golden dome.” 

“a minion.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

ann marie Jakubowski vicky Jacobsen Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Katie mccarty aaron saint-miller haleigh ehmsen conor Kelly 
Graphics Scene Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Learning through Art Trick or SWEet 5K Introduction to Women’s Volleyball Concert on the Steps 
wei lin austin Taliaferro 
Snite Museum of Art South Quad Metadata Joyce Center Bond Hall 2 p.m.- 3:15 p.m. 6 p.m.- 7 p.m. Hesburgh Library 4 p.m.- 6 p.m. 2 p.m.- 2:30 p.m. Three faculty $15 entrance fee 1 p.m.-2 p.m. The Irish take on the The Band plays 90 
Corrections 

members present. benefits Best Buddies. Open to beginners. Maryland Terrapins. minutes before kickoff. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and Classic Film: Grand “The First Modern Zen Meditation Hula-Hooping Saturdays with the strives for the highest standards Illusion Woman Artist” Coleman-Morse St. Liam Hall Saints of journalism at all times. we do, DeBartolo Performing Snite Museum of Art Center 1 p.m.- 2 p.m. Geddes Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center 4:30 p.m.- 6:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.- 6:15 p.m. Held every first Friday 10:30 a.m.- 11:30 a.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8 p.m. Lecture by Rainer Meditation practice of the month this Part of the Fall 2013 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Directed by Jean Maria Rilke about open to all students, semester as part of Series: “20th Century 
we can correct our error. 

Renoir. modernism. faculty and staff. Stress Buster Fridays. Martyrs.” 


clc considers campus diversity 
Joyce and student body chief of 
By THOMAS HUGHES 

news writer staff Juan rangel to meet with representatives from the office as students return from Fall of student affairs to discuss break, the campus life council topics including diversity in 
(clc) reconvened monday af-leadership positions. ternoon to discuss on-campus The council has considered diversity, gender relations and the need to diversify leader-office hours. ship in the past, coccia said. 
student body president alex “This is something that has coccia said he joined student been recommended since … body vice president nancy 1992, [1993], [1994] … that was 
paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 
a topic of discussion before we got there, so i think that [the council’s suggestion] helped re­inforce that point,” coccia said. coccia said his team also sug­gested all classrooms and resi­dence halls on campus include a statement of inclusion. 
on the topic of gender rela­tions, coccia said the group also encouraged the office of student affairs to “get the con­versation started” on what it means to be a transgender student at notre dame, spe­cifically what it means when it comes to student housing. he said prismnd, the recently created student organization for lgbTQ student issues, will be examining this topic as well. another topic that was dis­cussed during the meeting was students’ use of office hours. specifically, the council dis­cussed the fact that students often don’t use office hours 
very much, if at all. 
coccia said the council will 
focus on these and other issues 
as the school year progresses.
 “we’ll focus, for the rest of 
the semester, on the interme­
diate steps.… to either help 
get us more information, or to 
start addressing some of the is­
sues we’ve been talking about,” 
he said. “we’ve been asking so 
many questions… [and] we 
want to start figuring out what 
the solutions are.” 
Contact Thomas Hughes at thughes2@nd.edu 


ND Glee Club tours internationally over fall break 

By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
The glee club took its tal­ents on tour this fall break when they performed in two concerts in michigan, two in western new york and one in Toronto. 
The all-male a capella group will also give its annual fall concert Friday at 8 p.m. in the debartolo performing arts center. stuart streit, a sopho­more member of glee club, said the concert in rochester, new york, was his favorite of the five performances. 
“a huge crowd turned out for [the rochester concert], and i thought we had done a really good job,” streit said. “it was one of our first times off-book, which means we weren’t read­ing our music while singing, which led us to engage the audience a little bit more and keep our eyes on our director, which led to us singing better.” 
streit said the wide range of music in the group’s concert repertoire contributed to the tour’s success. 
“we had some canadian folk songs and a lot from our regular repertoire, so a lot of spirituals, some sacred music, [and] we had some russian and german songs on this one,” he said. 
in addition to the Fall Tour, the group performs during spring break and travels in­ternationally every other year, junior and glee club secre­tary michael shakour said. The club gives brief concerts on football weekends at the reflecting pool in front of hesburgh library, and it also performs longer concerts on campus. 
“we perform … main con­certs [four times] a year: fall, three at christmas, spring and then a commencement concert,” shakour said. “we’ll perform anything from classi­cal music to spiritual to jazz. … anything that has the words ‘notre dame’ in it we’ll sing. 
“we perform at least once a year with generally an orches­tra and another singing group around campus or at saint mary’s.” 
senior and glee club vice president Tim Kenney said the fall concert program will con­tain much of the same music the group performed on its re­cent tour. 
“in addition [to the tour mu­sic], for our second half we’ll have a couple small groups.” Kenney said. “There’s one quartet that a couple of the guys organized, … and then the undertones do a set. 
“it’s a lot of fun. we’ve all spent a lot of time working on the music, been working on it the entire semester so far, put in a lot of rehearsal hours. it’s a really strong set of mu­sic that’s going to be really well-done.” 
Though the glee club has a vigorous, four-days-a-week practice schedule, Kenney said the singers don’t mind because they’re like a family now. 
“The community has been really exciting and really just wonderful,” Kenney said. “it’s such a tight-knit group of guys. we really do consider ourselves a brothership. being able to have that close of in­teraction … having 80 best friends on campus, it’s really just awesome.” 
The glee club sells cds at gleeclub.nd.edu and at the hammes notre dame book­store. cds will also be avail­able at Friday’s concert, which costs $10 for general admis­sion, $6 for seniors and $5 for students. 
Contact Emma Borne at eborne@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Ally 
conTinued From page 1 
possible because of people who stand up as allies and thanks to the members of saga who plan and facilitate the events. 
“There are members of the lgbTQ community on cam­pus,” cullina said. “This week is important because it sends the message to these students that this is a campus full of allies. it also give students who are allies the opportunity to speak up and stand up for their lgbTQ peers.” 
senior hayley miller, treasurer of saga, said the week has mul­tiple distinct goals.“it reminds all of us [of] the importance of respecting others, it educates students on lgbTQ issues, and it promotes all individuals to be open to diversity by creating a safe zone for others,” she said. 
cullina said students can sign a pledge in the dining hall, vow­ing to support their peers who identify as part of the lgbTQ community. 
“The pledge in the dining hall is a visual representation of stu­dent and faculty allies on cam­pus,” cullina said. “nearly 100 people signed the pledge during just one two-hour lunch period. signing the ally pledge is a very simple way to stand up and say ‘lgbTQ is fine by me.’” 
a panel of saint mary’s stu­dents will discuss lgbTQ issues in the student center lounge to­day at 8 p.m. cullina said these students will explain their per­spectives on lgbTQ issues on campus. 
miller, who will speak on the panel, said it is important to understand the meaning of be­ing an ally. she said she hopes students who attend the panel will learn to define “ally” for themselves. 
“To me, being an ally means creating a non-judgmental, open-minded, hate-free envi­ronment where it is safe to dis­cuss issues surrounding sexual orientation or really any issue regarding diversity,” miller said. “i hope that by the end of the event, each person in the audi­ence will walk away with their own unique meaning of the word ‘ally.’” 
There will be safe zone train­ing Thursday at 5 p.m. in the student center lounge, fol­lowed by a tye dyeing event in the le mans hall basement at 7 p.m. 
These events aim to rein­force that lgbTQ students are not alone, cullina said, and that saga is active on campus and already looking forward to events next semester. 
“in the spring, we will have a campus-wide pride week,” cullina said. “in the meantime, we hope to bring some speakers to campus, as well as [to] host lgbTQ friendly social events “if there is one message i want saint mary’s students to take from this week, it is that the ma­jority of this campus is support­ive of the lgbTQ community.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Declan 
conTinued From page 1 
and a 2009 graduate of notre dame. 
“They were looking for causes to support that would reflect declan’s life,” ackerman said. “They knew declan loved notre dame and loved his education, so they wanted to find something that would support low-income kids from chicago.” 
horizons for youth is a schol­arship, mentoring and commu­nity organization for children, ackerman said. The program accepts students from kindergar­ten through third grade and sup­ports them through high school graduation, sometimes provid­ing 95 percent of tuition for stu­dents placed in private schools. horizons for youth also connects students with big siblings twice a month and with other individu­alized tutoring services. 
“students are not selected based on academic ability level,” ackerman said. “a lot of them are average and need help.” 

ackerman said the sullivans finalized their decision to make horizons for youth the pri­mary beneficiary of the declan drumm sullivan memorial Fund when they discovered the organi­zation’s offices were located next to old saint patrick’s church, where barry and his wife alison were married and where all their children were baptized. 
barry sullivan said the fund receives other contribu­tions throughout the year. The sullivans put these funds toward their children’s former elemen­tary and high schools, old saint patrick’s church in chicago and the community center on beaver island, michigan, where the family spent many summer vacations. 
barry sullivan said it’s also fit­ting that horizons for youth is the fund’s primary beneficiary because of the work the staff con­tributes to the main fundraising event, no ordinary evening. 
every year, horizons for youth works with the sullivans to host the 700-guest fundraising gala in the grand ballroom at navy pier, ackerman said. The inaugural event raised more than $600,000, and horizons for youth received the bulk of the proceeds. 
“we were able to accept 40 new students into our program and double our tutoring and coun­seling services,” she said. “The second event allowed us to sus­tain the first class and add 12 new students.” 
ackerman said the size of declan’s next class completely depends on the success of next year’s event, slated for april 5, 2014, at the same location. 
“For a student at a charter school, it costs $4,000, and for a private school it’s $8,000, but we need to sustain them year after a year,” she said. 
The title of the event comes from one of declan’s favor­ite films, “american beauty,” in which one character says, “i don’t think that there is anything worse than being ordinary.” 
“declan was anything from ordinary,” barry sullivan said. 
The theme for the upcoming gala is “no ordinary evening in wonderland,” sullivan said. 
“some if the craziness and the fantasy aspects seem to fit declan’s personality,” he said. “[declan’s siblings] mac and wyn were also involved in coming up with the theme. it was actually suggested by one of wyn’s good friends. it just all struck a chord with us.” 
This saturday, 20 students from horizons for youth and their mentors will attend the notre dame football game against navy to meet and tail­gate with the sullivan family. 
“it’s a special game for horizons,” sullivan said. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



paid adverTisemenT 
Thesis 
conTinued From page 1 

theses, a staff member from the university counseling center even spoke to the stu­dents about stress relief, and a tai chi session was held, bayard said. 
every day, representatives from the university writing center opened and closed the day with guidance, capdevielle said, and they were also available for one­on-one consultations. 
“we do group goal setting sessions in the morning and kind of a writing warm-up and a check-in at the end of the day where we wrap up, we share our accomplish­ments, we put our list of ac­complishments up on the board,” capdevielle said. 
in these sessions, tutors from the university writing center presented useful writ­ing strategies, capdevielle said. 
“one of the tools that we invite writers to use during this camp is something we call the thesis log or the proj­ect log, and that’s just a pro­cess log for writers to capture information about their own process,” he said. 
matt hayes, a senior italian and program of liberal studies major, said these writing strategies helped him to be productive during Thesis camp. 
“They were very helpful in teaching us various strate­gies on how to get things done,” hayes said. “one is 
paid adverTisemenT 


called ‘the pomodoro.’ … it’s italian for ‘tomato.’ it was working in 25-minute increments and then you give yourself a five-minute break.” 
Zach leonard, a senior classics major, said he most appreciated the special li­
“The goal of the camp is to help writers develop a clearer sense of their own best practices and to build a healthy momentum that will see them successfully through the project.” 
Matthew Capdevielle 
Writing Center director 
brary space. 
“The most helpful resource [was] probably dedicated space,” leonard said. “They put all the seniors in the bot­tom floor and that was help­ful because i could pretty much have the same desk ev­ery day and it was quiet down there. The working environ­ment was good.” 
hayes said he is glad he attended Thesis camp be­cause he knew he would not have written the 10 pages he completed if he had been at home. 
“i’m a very easily distracted person, and i know if i went home i would have probably laid in my bed all day and watched netflix. … Just forc­ing myself to wake up every morning at 8 a.m. to get there at 8:30 for breakfast, and just that uninterrupted time in the library, was probably the most productive i could’ve been over this break within reason,” he said. 
leonard said his goal was to write 15 pages for his the­sis, and he came close to meeting it. 
“my thesis is due by Thanksgiving, so i really needed to get a head start on it and finish up a lot of work. … i did not plan to stay in south bend for my final fall break. it was annoying to see my friends go out and have so much fun, but in the end, it really was worth it to have done this,” leonard said. 
For seniors continu­ing to write their the­ses, capdevielle said the university writing center of­fers programming through­out the year, including “write First” mini camps that take place from 8 to 10 a.m. from monday to Friday in the writing center, one-on-one consultations with tutors and read-ahead service for thesis writers. 
bayard said all seniors submitting theses should apply for the undergraduate library research award due apri. 10 with a $1000 first prize award. 
“For senior thesis entries … it’s not given on the strength of the senior thesis,” she said. “it’s given on the essay writ­ten about library resources and how the libraries and our resources informed the paper.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


NCAAW 
conTinued From page 1 
safely,” she said.      
hoffmann said it is important for colleges to learn how to dis­tinguish themselves from cam­pus drinking culture. 
“in regards to notre dame, we have a culture that’s really surrounded by sports,” she said. “so with our mock tailgate, we’re giving students the opportu­nity to think that, come football saturdays, when they may go to a family’s or friend’s tailgate, maybe they can step back and not have as much or not have any at all.” 
hoffmann said ncaaw is part of a national campaign by the bacchus network, an organi­zation that promotes students’ health and safety on campuses. 
“They want to get students to use the [hashtag] ‘#makesmar-Tchoices,’ so we’re really trying to get that out around campus,” she said. “it’s just about making students aware of the fact that you can still go out to be parties, but be smart about decisions that you are making when you are going out.” 
according to the bacchus network, the national collegiate alcohol awareness week began in 2008. 
“ncaaw has grown to become the largest single event in alco­hol prevention at colleges and universities because students take ownership in designing and implementing this observance for their campus communities,” the bacchus network’s 2012 press release for the event stat­ed. “This week gives campuses the opportunity to showcase healthy lifestyles free from the abuse or illegal use of alcohol, and to combat the negative and inaccurate stereotypes of college drinking behavior.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

stop the uggs 

Mary Green  
sports writer 

ah, the drop in temperature, forecasts of snow and longer lines at starbucks mean my least-favorite time of year has come upon us: ugg season. cue the “psycho” theme music. 
i encountered the first pair of the year of those ever-so-lovely boots in debartolo during midterms week, a turquoise-sequined number, and, i’m sad to say, the amount i have seen trudging around campus has only increased since then. 
sure, you say they are warm and keep your feet and ankles protected from the cold during January walks to class. i’ll just have to trust you on that one, be­cause you will never catch me dead in a pair of australia’s most notorious shoes. 
while the actual boots are incredibly ugg-ly (see what i did there?), their looks and lack of aesthetic appeal are not what drive me crazy. it’s the complete misuse of them that makes me question human­ity in general on an annual basis. 
at my high school in Tampa, Florida, almost everyone owned a pair of uggs, a north Face jacket or both. safe to say, i was not included in this majority. i can count on one hand the number of days it gets cold enough in Tampa to warrant wearing either one of these items. 
but no, everyone had to have them because they were “winter essentials.” 
it’s difficult to justify owning these cold-weather companions when i saw girls wearing them with shorts in december, especially the boots. 
how in the world does that make any inkling of sense to anyone? Furry boots and shorts? 
if i was the ceo of ugg, besides giving my company a total facelift and dropping Tom brady as a model (seriously, who thought that was a good idea?), i would make a slight change in my company’s packaging. 
in each box of boots would be a pam­phlet telling customers that ugg holds the right to seize your shoes if you are found wearing them with shorts, tank tops, bathing suits or anything else that seems to oppose your rationale for wear­ing uggs, which hopefully is the cold because it certainly shouldn’t be the cute factor. 
Then i would employ special secret po­lice to scout the united states, especially Florida, in search of rule-breakers. if they came across someone mixing sheepskin and shorts, they would present the rule to them, demand their shoes and redistrib­ute them to orphans in russia. 
don’t be worried if i stumble upon you donning a pair of uggs in a colder locale. i’m sure you’ll be nice and warm, but just know i’ll be imagining how much better your outfit would be with a pair of riding boots instead. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Jon Schommer 
viewpoint columnist 
For the longest time, i imagined my conscience to be a small, top-hatted crick­et always prepared for a rainstorm. Thank you, walt disney. while this is a cute im­age to remind kids to make good choices, i don’t think it really captures the gravity of conscience. 
one of my favorite musicians, brett dennen, has a lyric that hits me every time i hear it. in one of the verses of “she’s mine,” dennen sings, “all my heroes have been slain/ exiled or put in prison/ be­cause they rose above the mess/ because their power posed a threat/ and because they spoke of something else when every­body else didn’t.” 
let’s see — Jesus, dorothy day, gandhi, martin luther King Jr., archbishop oscar romero and st. marcellus … yup, they all check out. it is in the lives of people such as these that i began to understand con­science as a thing much more powerful than a little cricket. conscience lights the lamp of truth and goodness in the world. it reminds us of what is most important. 
but to my mom’s chagrin, this means that heeding our consciences will often get us into trouble. we will inevitably be asked to defy the powers that be or the mainstream in order to call each other back to the truth. This week, the church celebrates the feast of a person whose mother was probably grieved by the result of his conscience-motivated action, st. marcellus. 
in 298 a.d., marcellus, a centurion in the roman army, was with his unit in northern africa during the celebrations of the emperor’s birthday. amidst the partying and revelry, something moved marcellus to stand up in front of the ban­queters, denounce the parties as heathen and cast off his weapons and military insignia, crying out, “i serve Jesus christ, the eternal King. i will no longer serve your emperors, and i scorn to worship your gods of wood and stone, which are deaf and dumb idols.” 

marcellus was then arrested and brought to trial. The centurion admitted that he said and did all of which he was ac­cused. marcellus chose god over country or kin. The motive for his actions was, as he said, that it is “not right for a christian man, who serves the lord christ, to serve in the armies of the world.” because of this stand, with great peace of mind and asking god to bless the judge who con­demned him, marcellus was deemed mad and beheaded. 
okay, so that is not exactly the nice, follow-your-conscience-and-become-a­real-boy story we find in disney, but it is a story to which we should pay attention. i say this because it is a story embedded in our campus. 
how is a third-century saint and martyr embedded in our campus, you ask? 
First, his relics are literally embedded under the high altar of the basilica of the sacred heart. also, the spirit of his deci­sion is implicit in the ranking within the motto over the east door of the basilica: “god, country, notre dame.” 
it can be easy for us to confound our allegiances between these three be­cause in our idealism we want them to be perfectly aligned. but when it comes down to it, there are instances when the priorities and practices of our country or of our school are not in line with our ul­timate priority as christians to love god and neighbor. This is when we must fol­low our consciences. so, in light of saint marcellus’ martyrdom and of placing god first, this motto begs us to ask several questions. 
when does our allegiance to god come into conflict with our allegiance to coun­try or even to our school? 
how will we act in accord with our con­sciences when that conflict occurs? 
i invite you, friends, to ponder these questions with me and members of the notre dame and south bend com­munities at this year’s st. marcellus day celebration on wednesday. There will be a simple supper and a play reenact­ing the life of marcellus in the ballroom of the laFortune student center at 5:45 p.m., followed by a 7 p.m. prayer service and keynote address in the basilica. The keynote address, titled “marcellus: The Family values saint,” will be given by rev. emmanuel charles mccarthy, the founder and past director of notre dame’s program on the study and practice of nonviolent conflict resolution. 
it would be great to see you at some or all of the events. as always, if you want more information, just send me an email. 
Jon Schommer is in his fifth year studying civil engineering and the Program of Liberal Studies. He can be contacted at jschomme@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
I’m just hungry 
John Sandberg 
sandman’s musing 
“i’m just hungry.” 
i spent the past week with one foot inside the notre dame bubble and another foot out. 
it was a beautiful experience. and a dis­turbing one. 
and as we return to campus and enter a new week, beginning the all too rapid march toward semester’s end, those are the words that inspire and haunt me: 
“i’m just hungry.” 
Four days on a virtually deserted campus can teach you a lot, as i learned. 
you’ll realize the decades-, if not cen­turies-, old building you call home is a little eerier at night when most the doors throughout the hallways hide nothing but empty rooms. 
you’ll find unexpected silence is far more disruptive to your study space than any ill-tuned guitar or video game soundtrack could ever be. 
and you’ll learn the ghosts of notre dame still speak clearer than ever, if only you’ll listen. 
at least, that’s who i’m convinced was speaking to me last monday, the ghosts of notre dame. They were the ones who com­pelled me to stop and take a longer look at the familiar signage on campus, with the message that encourages us all to live out the vision of notre dame, to be “a healing, unifying, enlightening force for a world deeply in need.” 

a force. 

not just a school or a student body, but a force for good that responds to a world with so many needs, many of which are greater now than ever. of course, the urgency of those needs is hard to recognize when inside the bubble. only once outside did i realize why i had been looking at that old, familiar campus sign, why i needed to look at that sign. 
Fast forward to saturday night, at which point i had stepped out of the bubble and into the bright lights of chicago, and there they are — three honest words pasted across a tattered scrap of cardboard, held in the weathered hands of a man whose weathered face i never saw because it was masked by a hood cloaking a head hung in a disheartening combination of shame and exhaustion: 
“i’m just hungry.” 
These are the words i bring back to cam­pus with me. These are the words that make me ask what it takes to turn good intentions into a true force for good. 
if i told the man holding his sign that there was such a force working on his behalf, would he have been able to feel its effects? if i told him about this force, would he have known it existed at all? 
clichéd columns that call on readers to “make the world a better place” often end up being just that — clichéd. That’s not my aim. 
but as we return from break and get back to work, a little perspective can be a good thing. For me, it’s perspective on what it means to be that force notre dame is called to be. 
For all the success that has been achieved by notre dame students and alumni alike, the image of the desperate man and his cardboard sign beneath the bright lights of chicago served as my reminder that there is still tremendous work to be done in living out the university’s true vision. whether it’s poverty, immigration, education or any other issue, a force is needed to provide a breakthrough on the problems that have seen little progress in recent years. 
This is the challenge of notre dame, to be not just a school, but a force. 
solutions won’t materialize in one day, but one day is all it takes to refocus our thinking and begin the work necessary to transform what is already a great school into the great force we can be at our very best. 
one day is all it takes. and today is the perfect day to start. 
John Sandberg lives in Fisher Hall and is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

My classmate’s tragic life 
Gary J. Caruso 
capitol comments 

while attending my notre dame class reunion this summer, i learned of a classmate’s passing last January. he and i had lived across the hall from each other in a third-floor wing of lyons hall. Together we had volun­teered during the summer following our junior year to work in a congres­sional campaign in one of new york’s boroughs. last weekend, after visiting with his first wife, who still lives in the big apple, i learned of how truly tragic his life had turned and how wrong my student-year impressions of him had been. 
our freshman acquaintance is the classic college story of differing life­styles melded in a dormitory setting that launched a bonded friendship that, as far as i was concerned, would last a lifetime. we lived and shared like any college student. our freshman year during a football saturday, he brought a high school friend to meet me at my room but found me in my un­derwear, wearing just one shoe, hob­bling in a circle saying, “i’m drunk, i’m drunk. i got to walk it off.” he returned later to make introductions. 
my classmate and i could not have been more different, other than for our gender and religion. he was the 
Conor Durkin 
Thinking differently 

if you follow politics, you know the past few weeks have been pretty volatile in our nation’s capital. The federal government shut down oct. 1 after congress failed to pass a budget resolution that would have allowed the government to continue operating. but while macroeconomic forecasts are already showing the negative effect the shutdown had on our economy, congress narrowly managed to avoid bringing about an even bigger catastrophe 
— hitting the debt ceiling. The debt ceil­ing limits the maximum amount of debt our government can take on. we were set to hit that limit around oct. 17 before the government finally agreed on a continu­ing resolution to fund itself through mid-January and extend the debt ceiling until early February. This is a good thing, and i’m glad to see it happen, but frankly, our government should go further. it’s time to get rid of the debt ceiling. 
many people have a difficult time un­derstanding what the debt ceiling actually is, which makes debates surrounding its existence quite difficult. let’s begin with what raising the debt ceiling doesn’t do. it does not increase our national debt, at least, not directly. The debt ceiling sets the only son in a thriving, long-established midwestern catholic business fam­ily and could rely on his father for a bushel of cash whenever requested. our senior year he impulsively bought a porsche, wrote a check for it and then “convinced” his father during a shout­ing match over the phone to back the check with a bank deposit. i always credited his military high school edu­cation as exuding his unique personal confidence that permeated his actions and expressions. in short, he was one of my classmates from whom i learned to improve my own personality and character. 
i, on the other hand, hailed from a second-generation immigrant family in which my father was the first to at­tend — and graduate from — college. my dad battled in anzio, italy, in world war ii and then used his gi bill privi­leges to further battle an atmosphere of prejudice against catholic italian “wop” families. he became an el­ementary school principal but worked summer jobs painting buildings to earn extra money to help pay for my notre dame tuition. as a public school student, i also toiled as a summer la­borer to earn college money. so the excitement of possibly working a sum­mer in a new york city congressional campaign with my dynamic classmate trumped all of my summer’s dreams or expectations. 

once in new york, my classmate took charge of every assigned task. i mar­veled at how decisively and naturally he tackled each project with a keen eye for detail and effectiveness while chain-smoking cigarettes. i studied his seemingly endless talents. when asked to set up and operate a sound truck to draw attention to our candidate, my classmate instinctively pulled santana songs, cleverly using “you’ve got to change your evil ways” as a signature message against our incumbent oppo­nent. That summer, he met his future first wife, whom he married the fol­lowing year. as was typical of his style, they bought a multi-unit brownstone apartment and converted four of its eight units on the first and garden lev­els into their huge unit. 
we crossed paths a few times during the following decades. my classmate’s children grew to be fine married adults, but he eventually divorced their mother. he constantly ventured into many failed projects — buying a ferry just to have it go out of business, losing massive investments in neighborhood redevelopments of undesirable areas and simply making several unwise business speculations. yet despite his outwardly confident and successful façade, he drank heavily, contracted cancer five years ago and became a broken, penniless soul, even when he attended his child’s wedding wearing 
Repeal the debt ceiling 
overall limit on how much our govern­ment is allowed to borrow, the same way a credit card’s maximum limit sets the overall maximum a person is allowed to borrow. but the debt ceiling doesn’t — and this is important — decide how much our government actually spends. congress does that by passing a budget each year. 
This concept is why the debt ceiling, at present, doesn’t make any sense. we already have a process by which our gov­ernment decides how much money to spend each year — when congress passes a budget and allocates funding to the vari­ous parts of our government. we already have a process by which our government decides how much money to collect in revenues in each year — when congress sets tax rates and passes a budget and when the internal revenue service col­lects taxes. moreover, when congress does those things, it has a reasonably accurate idea of whether it needs to issue bonds to finance some of that spending and how much borrowing it actually needs to do. according to the constitution, congress has the authority to borrow money. so why do we have this extra arbitrary hoop that congress has to jump through? 
once upon a time, the debt ceiling served a purpose. back during world war i, we didn’t always have a forward-looking budget process, and military expenditures especially were not always budgeted for in advance. instead of having congress pass a new spending bill allowing the mili­tary to borrow money every few weeks, congress decided to simplify the process by just creating a ‘debt ceiling’ and allow­ing the war department to borrow money, as long as it stayed under that limit. 

but today, in the context of the modern budget process, the debt ceiling no longer serves that purpose. instead, the exis­tence of the debt ceiling just serves as a relic of the way things were done decades ago, much like many other quirks in our government. 
yet, this is a particularly dangerous quirk. so long as the debt ceiling was an arbitrary number that our politicians all just agreed to raise every few years, it posed no threat. in recent years, however, the debt ceiling has become grounds for a new level of political theater, a place where our politicians can rail against the irresponsibility of the national debt, to the point that whether or not it gets raised has become no guarantee. it’s hard to overstate how bad that is. if the federal government hit the debt ceiling and be­came unable to borrow further — despite the fact that congress had already passed bills mandating that the government do so — then the government would be forced to default on some of our debts. 
an immaculate tuxedo and his notre dame ring. The classmate i so admired and respected could not, throughout his life, face the person he really was within. he chased ghosts of what he thought he was or what he wanted. sadly, my classmate was not remotely the person i thought i knew. 
Three months before he died, i re­connected with him on Facebook, knowing nothing of his divorce, cancer or broken life. my classmate’s second wife withheld his funeral information for weeks after his death to keep his estranged first family away. ultimately, i shared a final moment when i asked on his sparse Facebook page for a cell phone that could double as a time ma­chine and go back to a congressional campaign where i could be with my college buddy again. he replied in a way that i now understand acknowl­edged our friendship when he wrote, “good to hear from you.” 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and pub­lic affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Bill Clinton’s administration. His column ap­pears every other Friday. Contact him at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
This would induce severe volatility into our financial markets, potentially setting off another global financial crisis. it would also result in higher interest rates for bor­rowing, making our public finances in worse shape and reducing confidence in our political system. 
i’m as much an opponent of higher na­tional debts as anyone. Just this past week, i spent several days in washington, d.c., with Fix the debt, a national advocacy group pushing for solutions to our long­term fiscal challenges. yet, having a debt ceiling doesn’t do anything to help solve those challenges, and the uncertainty it induces just makes things worse. one of the ideas i heard from those i met with in washington was how low expectations are right now with respect to what congress can do. even things like getting the gov­ernment running again are seen as major achievements. right now, congress is in enough of a mess without nonsensical policies getting in the way. it’s time to get one such obstacle off its plate by getting rid of the debt ceiling. 
Conor Durkin is a senior studying economics and political science. He can be contacted at cdurkin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

spencer Krug is a man with many masks, showing several different sides and much creativity in his work on his cult darlings sunset rubdown, wolf parade and swan lake, and on his solo project, moonface. on his third lp under the name “moonface,” “Julia with blue Jeans on,” Krug removes all the masks, leaving everything bare in a simple but incredibly moving album. 
“Julia with blue Jeans on” began with an upright piano Krug bought with the in­tention of revitalizing his connection with the instrument. “i played it in my teens and in my early 20s, then i moved over to rock bands and i forgot how to properly play the instrument,” Krug says. “i’m not an accomplished pianist by any means, and never have been, but the way i play pi­ano lends itself to a pseudo-classical style. … it’s really fun to write that stuff.” when making this album, Krug moved from his home in montreal to helsinki, Finland, to 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

Using hidden cameras, we tracked exper­imental Campesino treatment of a patient with T.S. (terminal sadness) from diagnosis to full recovery. For anonymity reasons, we have changed the names of all persons in­volved. Neither “Hipster Jeff” nor “Doctor Mister” is an actor. (Note: This story may, in fact, be entirely fictional, but we’re going to let you guess.) 
“i will take you where the sun shines.” — los campesinos, “For Flotsam” 
Oct. 27, 9 a.m., St. Vincent’s Hospital, Psychological Wing 
dr. mister: mr. Jeff, i’m afraid i have some bad news for you. 
hipster Jeff: what? what is it? 

dr. mister: you’re sad. Terminally sad. you lead, and will always lead, a sad life. history of existential tendencies in the family, early exposure to emo music, english major … it was all too much. 
hipster Jeff: i … i guess i’ve been in de­nial. i always felt different. i thought i was just meant for the angsty Tumblr lifestyle ... but i’m beginning to see that’s no kind of life at all. 
change his creative influences. 
This album is different from all of Krug’s previous works, as he only employs his pi­ano and his voice throughout all 10 tracks. as limited of a musical arsenal as this may seem, Krug brings out the big guns and blows the listener out of the water, proving he does not need layers of backup instru­mentation and advanced electronics to powerfully convey a wide range of emo­tions. This stunningly intimate lp is a breath of fresh air in a musical scene filled with overhyped, overproduced records. 
particularly notable about this album is that, despite the narrow constraints he has placed himself within, Krug still manages to make every song unique, never allow­ing the record to grow stale. modern lyrics overlay the 10 classical tracks filled with trills, arpeggios and sweeping key chang­es. “Julia with blue Jeans on” opens with “barbarian,” a raw epic track that could easily be found on a movie soundtrack. Krug’s distinctive, powerful warbling car­ries each song, but the piano playing is not to be overlooked. his talent is particularly 
dr. mister: well, we do have some pos­sible experimental treatments… 
hipster Jeff: anything, anything to make the pain go away. 
dr. mister: here. 
hipster Jeff: This medicine looks a lot like a cd. 
dr. mister: “no blues.” by los campesinos. it’s been used in under­ground clinics for a while now with in­credible results. side effects, you must be warned, include spontaneous dance parties of uncontrollable size and un­explained attraction to shiny and pink objects. 
hipster Jeff: worth. 
Jeff’s Tumblr (mylifeisasadlookingkitten. tumblr.com) 
Posted Oct. 27, 11 p.m., Hipster Jeff’s Residence, Living Room 
what is life? i’ve always been breathing, and yet now i finally feel alive. “no blues” is the world i never knew was there to es­cape into … a place of huge, indie-pop cho­ruses, female vocals singing softly in the background, guitars that crunch joyfully at one moment and pluck softly during the next. The strings soar softly and subtly behind waves of jubilant noise. The lead vocals are rough, living, affirming hope. 

evident in the lengthy instrumental break­downs in “dreamy summer” and the al­bum-closer, “your chariot awaits,” which is by far one of the most interesting songs i have heard this year. Krug commands the piano eloquently; his classical compo­sitional style allows for an unpredictable musicality and grandiose that is incredibly rare in solo performances. 
in addition to the great piano perfor­mance, the deepness of the lyrics is ab­solutely stunning. Krug uses language economically to create incredibly viv­id imagery. This is especially clear in “barbarian” and the title track, “Julia with blue Jeans on.” “barbarian” focuses on the idea of being a stranger in a foreign land while the latter concentrates simply on a woman at the bottom of the stairs. as simple an idea as that may seem, Krug paints a beautiful picture with his words and even manages to pepper some wry humor into very intimate songs. 
This album is a nice return to simplicity in a world that exponentially grows more complicated, but it is simply that. it does 
For the first time, i see a great light beyond this apartment, beyond these blue Tumblr walls. life is waiting for me out there. 
Oct. 28, 10:35 a.m., St. Vincent’s Hospital, Psychological Wing 
dr. mister: mr. Jeff, how are you feeling? 
hipster Jeff: rainbows. double rain­bows and kitten giFs. 
dr. mister: could you be a bit more descriptive for the record please? 
hipster Jeff: yes. christmas every day with cherries on top. black Friday can-dy-shop invasion led by the Kool-aid man. started from the bottom, now we here. 
dr. mister: hipster Jeff, how many times did you administer the treatment? 
hipster Jeff: um, 12 spins round the carousel. and ice cream afterward! 
dr. mister (into walkie-Talkie): i think we need some help in the psycho­logical wing. 
hipster Jeff: did you realize you have a cd player in this room? i hooked it up to the hospital’s intercom system… 
dr. mister: wait … oh my gosh… 
hipster Jeff: no blues! 
dr. mister: This music … is so happy! 
hipster Jeff: leT’s dance! 
dr. mister: yes! 
not push music forward in new direc­tions, but burrows deeper into its most in­timate roots. This is not a revolution, but a restoration of the elements that make mu­sic special. This album exposes the rawer, more visceral side of Krug. and because of that, “Julia with blue Jeans on” should definitely be on your radar. 
“Julia with blue Jeans on” is available for purchase Tuesday. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Julia with Blue Jeans On” 
Moonface 
Label: Jagjaguwar Tracks: “Barbarian,” “Dreamy Summer” If you like: Sunset Rubdown, Swan Lake 

Jeff’s Tumblr (mylifeisasadlookingkitten. tumblr.com), Posted Oct. 27, 11 p.m., Hipster Jeff’s Residence, Kitchen 
i have to tell everyone about this record. it’s got too much amazing songwriting, too much energy to be contained. los campesinos is not just some six-piece in­die-rock band — they are warriors of light. Their sound is raw, but the production prevents anything from diving into the dumpster of messiness. “no blues” is a feat of joy, energy and youth. it’s something to pick you up when you’re feeling down. it’s a treasure trove of crazy stories and stand­out lyrics. 
when you’re rocking with los campesinos, there can be “no blues.” 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“No Blues” 
Los Campesinos 
Label: Arts & Crafts Records Tracks: “For Flotsam,” “Let it Spill” If you like: The Joy Formidable, Titus 
Andronicus 



Notre Dame 45, aIr ForCe 10 | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2013 | NDsmCobserver.Com 
Aerial attack 
Behind five touchdown passes from Tommy Rees, Irish soar to 45-10 victory over Air Force 
Rout proves Irish are now taking care of business 

Jack Hefferon 
sports Writer 
CoLoraDo sPrINGs, Colo. 
— With three minutes remain­ing in the third quarter, the scoreboard in Falcon stadium thanked the fans in attendance for coming and put up the graphic asking them to “PLease DrIve saFeLY.” 
the game officially ended a few drives later, as Notre Dame’s second- and third-stringers protected a five-touchdown lead and the Irish victory in front of a mostly emptied crowd. 
In that regard, Notre Dame’s 45-10 rout of air Force on saturday night was nothing spe­cial. the Falcons have yet to beat an Fbs team, and the one win on their 1-7 record came against the Fighting toothbrushes of Colgate. the final result, and even the lofty margin of victory, could have been expected well ahead of the game. 
but on the other hand, that’s what makes saturday’s blowout 
— and other games like it — so exceptional. For two years now, Notre Dame has taken care of business in the games it’s ex­pected to win, sidestepping ev­ery trap game on its schedule. 
this is something of a recent development. 
Charlie Weis got chased from south bend for failing to get a consistent showing from his team. blowouts at the hands of UsC and michigan hurt, but worse were losing two out of three to Navy — ending a streak of 43 consecutive wins in that series — and back-to-back senior Day upsets at the hands of syracuse and Connecticut. 
the same issues plagued brian Kelly in his first season, as things went from bad to worse with midseason losses to tulsa and the midshipmen once again. the Irish turned that 2010 season around with the unlikely emer­gence of then-freshman quarter­back tommy rees, but they were hamstrung in the 2011 season opener by a rain-soaked loss to south Florida, ruining a No. 16 ranking. 
In the two-and-a-half seasons since then, though, Kelly and 
see bUsINess PAGE 3 


By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
CoLoraDo sPrINGs, Colo. 
— In the thin air of Colorado, Notre Dame let it fly. 
Notre Dame (6-2) gained 331 yards in the air on its way to a 45-10 rout over air Force (1-7) on saturday at Falcon stadium in Colorado springs, Colo. 
Irish senior quarterback tommy rees had as many in-completions as touchdown passes (five). He completed 17 of 22 passes for 284 yards and a career-high five touchdowns. In two career games against air Force, rees has thrown for 545 yards and nine touchdown passes. 
“tommy threw the ball very efficiently,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. “He was on target, could really pick his spots and when we needed a play, he was able to make it.” 

since the beginning of the UsC game a week ago, rees has thrown for 450 yards and seven touchdowns. 
“[rees] played well against arizona state, clearly he was playing well against UsC until he got injured,” Kelly said. “I’ve really felt like he’s been play­ing well. He’s been doing some things, putting the ball in great locations.” 
rees was the first quar­terback in school history to connect with five different re­ceivers for touchdowns in one game. 
“We thought their corners and safeties were extremely ag­gressive, a lot more than they had shown and gave us the opportunity for some one-on­one matchups that we didn’t 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
TOMMY REES 
IRISH SENIOR QUARTERBACK 

the starter returned from a neck strain he suffered oct. 19 against UsC by unleashing an aerial attack. He had as many touchdowns (five) as incompletions (he completed 17 of 22 pass attempts) in the contest. rees capped off a stellar october by moving into third place on ND’s all-time passing touchdowns list with 54 in his career. 
think we were going to get, quite frankly,” Kelly said. “We were able to take advantage of them. We were able to get over the top.” 
Freshmen receivers Corey robinson and Will Fuller caught their first career touch­down passes in the first half. It was the first time since 2007 that two freshman receivers caught touchdown passes in the same game, when Duval Kamara and Golden tate achieved the feat. 
robinson’s was a leaping acrobatic 35-yard grab down the sideline in the first quar­ter while Fuller sped behind the Falcon defense for a 46­yard deep pass in the second quarter. Junior tight end ben Koyack added a 22-yard touch­down reception in the second stanza. 
senior receiver tJ Jones snared a 30-yard pass from rees to give the Irish a 31-10 lead nearly midway through the third quarter. Jones now has five consecutive games with a touchdown catch. 
sophomore receiver Chris brown also hauled in his first career touchdown pass when rees found him for a 15-yard score with 3:07 left in the third quarter. 
“the one in particular that I 
see vICtorY PAGE 2 
Freshman receivers step up, score first career touchdowns 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports Writer 
CoLoraDo sPrINGs, Colo. — there’s nothing like the first time. 
In Notre Dame’s 45-10 win over air Force on saturday, Irish se­nior quarterback tommy rees sprayed the ball around, finding five different receivers on his five touchdown throws — a first in the program’s long history. 
two of those touchdown re­cipients were freshmen receivers Corey robinson and Will Fuller, who reached the end zone for the first time in their careers. 
robinson came down with Notre Dame’s first score of the day, a jump ball that the 6-foot­
4.5 freshman went up and stole away from his defender for a 35­yard touchdown. robinson said he was surprised to stay on his feet after the catch and had to re­member to take the last few steps over the goal line. From there, the situation became even more foreign. 
“that [touchdown] was so sur­real. I did not expect that com­ing,” robinson said. “I didn’t know what to do in the end zone. I was just like, ‘What do I do now?’” 
Fuller’s score came just more than four minutes later when he flew past a Falcon cornerback down the seam, opening up a five-yard gap to make an easy 46-yard grab for the score. Fuller streaked down the sideline later in the game for another big gain, this time good for 47 yards, and Irish coach brian Kelly praised the freshman’s “elite speed” and hands after the performance. 
For Fuller, one word captured the touchdown and the day. 
“that was fun,” he said. “as receivers, we’re always together, so it was great for all of us to get a chance to score and catch the ball.” 
It also brought a smile to Kelly, who was pleased to see his fresh­men continue to develop and provide depth behind veteran receivers like senior tJ Jones and junior Davaris Daniels. 
“You’d like to get these kinds of opportunities for these young guys early because it obviously builds their confidence,” Kelly said. “they’re a really confident 
see FresHmeN PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 







QUARTERBACKS 

tommy rees came back strong from a neck strain and threw a career-high five touchdowns to lead the Irish offense. the senior was 17-for-22 for 284 yards against an overmatched air Force secondary. andrew Hendrix completed only one of his four pass attempts, but it was a 47-yarder that set up his touchdown run. 
RUNNING BACKS 

the Irish running game was mildly productive but failed to stand out against the Falcons. Junior Cam mcDaniel led the unit with 61 yards on 10 carries, while George atkinson managed 18 yards on six carries and amir Carlisle totaled only three yards in as many carries. Freshman tarean Folston was a bright spot, rushing for 47 yards on 11 carries. 
RECEIVERS 

tJ Jones finished with 104 yards on seven catches, while freshman William Fuller gained 94 yards on two recep­tions. Jones, Fuller, Corey robinson, Chris brown and tight end ben Koyack all brought down touchdown receptions. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

Notre Dame’s front took full advantage of its considerable size advantage over the Falcons by protecting rees (except for a second-quarter sack), but the running lanes were not always open. It was a good performance by a unit hit by injuries to Christian Lombard and Chris Watt. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

there are no gaudy stats from this unit (the leading tackler had four and the Falcons rushed for 290 yards), but the line was instrumental in helping contain the option attack, particularly on third and fourth down. Injuries continue to threaten the depth of the unit. 
LINEBACKERS 

Despite getting caught flat-footed on the edge early in the game, Jaylon smith was a star. the freshman had eight tackles, one tackle-for-loss and a fumble recovery that could have gone for a touchdown if not for an erroneous whistle.  Dan Fox also recorded eight tackles. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

Notre Dame allowed only 48 yards passing against the run-heavy air Force offense. Keivarae russell made sev­eral impressive tackles and tied Cole Luke with six tackles total. they did their job in an atypical matchup. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

an early blocked field goal attempt got the Irish off to a rocky start, but the they overcame the blunder. Kyle brin­dza connected from 51 yards out shortly before halftime and was solid both punting and kicking in the mountain air. George atkinson brought his only kickoff return back 37 yards to set the Irish up near midfield. 
COACHING 

Notre Dame shook off a sluggish start to dominate the Fal­cons. rees was ready to play and in total control, and brian Kelly and Chuck martin put all the right pieces around him. bob Diaco’s defense held air Force scoreless over the game’s final 40 minutes. Preparing to face the triple-option is a daunting task, but the Irish did so successfully. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.44 

the Irish dominated the bulk of the game and performed highly at almost every level. tommy rees made a triumphant comeback from injury by hitting five different receivers for five touchdowns. Notre Dame’s defense showed itself equal to the task of stopping air Force, an achievement that, although expected, is a welcome sign with Navy headed to town. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
RECEIVER COREY ROBINSON CATCHES 35-YARD TOUCHDOWN 
rees’ first touchdown of the game came in the first quarter, giving Notre Dame a lead it would never relinquish. robinson elevated his 6-foot-5 frame over single coverage and snatched the ball out of the air before stumbling into the endzone for his first career score. 
Victory 
CoNtINUeD From PaGe 1 

liked was Chris brown’s touch­down catch was put in a posi­tion where he was the only one that was going to catch it,” Kelly said. “He’s making those kinds of throws even if you’re cov­ered right now. If tommy can continue to make those kinds of accurate throws, throwing them away from the defenders, he’s going to continue to have success.” 
the pass was the last one rees threw on the day as senior quarterback andrew Hendrix led the Notre Dame offense the rest of the game. 
Hendrix was 1-for-4 for 47 yards throwing the ball and added a rushing touchdown in the fourth quarter. 
Kelly said Hendrix’s play was “a lot better than last week’s.” 
air Force got on the board first after Irish junior kicker Kyle brindza’s 46-yard field goal attempt was blocked. 
Falcon freshman quarter­back Nate romine became the fourth starting quarterback, the most in the nation, for air Force this season when he took the field following a brindza’s miss. 
romine and the Falcons needed just 3:40 to get on the board. air Force had only two plays of less than five yards as it marched 71 yards in 10 plays for the first touchdown of the game. Junior receiver Colton Huntsman ran around the Irish defense and into the left corner of the end zone from 10 yards out for the touchdown. It was Huntsman’s first touchdown of the season. 
“We told our guys air Force was going to give us that punch at some time and that was in the very first quarter when we drove down and had a field goal blocked and subsequently, they scored,” Kelly said. “then our team was going to have to respond and they responded quite well, obviously, from that. that was the challenge to our football team that something was going to happen early on and they would have to respond and they responded very, very well.” 

Notre Dame scored 45 of the next 48 points after the air Force touchdown, including the final 31. 
air Force did not reach the end zone again and only punc­tured the red zone one more time. In their lone red zone trip, Falcons senior running back anthony LaCoste fumbled the ball and the Irish pounced on it near the end of the first half. 
air Force also fumbled the ball away on its open­ing drive of the second half when junior linebacker ben Councell knocked the ball out of romine’s hands. Irish fresh­man linebacker Jaylon smith recovered the fumble. 
“they were big turnovers, there’s no question about it but we kept pressure on them of­fensively, which was the key,” Kelly said. “We kept scoring points and I think the turn­over and then consequently the scores on offense, piling those points up and keeping it sepa­rated put them under a lot of pressure today.” 
Falcons coach troy Calhoun said the fumbles were game-changers. 
“I do think just when you look at pure firepower, amount of gun powder, they’ve got quite a bit,” Calhoun said. “I do think it would have been a more closely contested game, especially in the second half [if not for the fumbles].” 
the Irish answered the early score with a quick five-play 
touchdown  drive, capped by  
robinson’s  first  touchdown  
catch.  

the pass marked rees’ 11th completion of 32 yards or lon­ger, which matched the 2012 to­tal. rees also became the fourth Irish quarterback to throw for 50 touchdowns. rees passed ron Powlus to move into third on the all-time passing touch­down list. He trails just Jimmy Clausen and brady Quinn. 
Notre Dame held the air Force’s triple option attack to 290 rushing yards and 339 total yards. 
after allowing the Falcons 8.4 yards per carry in the first quar­ter, the Irish allowed 3.6 per carry the rest of the game. the Falcons mustered just 49 yards through the air. 
smith led the Notre Dame defense with nine tackles, in­cluding one for loss. Kelly said the coaching staff put smith in a tough position early in the game but made adjustments to limit the Falcon option attack. 
brindza blasted a 51-yard field goal with 3:57 left in the half to give the Irish a 24-10 cushion. the make was brindza’s third career field goal of 50 yards or more. 
air Force tacked on a 47-yard field goal by junior kicker Will Conant with 10:07 left in the second half. 
the Irish will try to improve to 7-2 on saturday when Navy comes to Notre Dame stadium. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 




MICHAEL KRAMM | The Observer 

Irish freshman receiver Corey Robinson reels in a 35-yard touchdown pass in the first quarter of Notre Dame’s 45-10 victory over Air Force on Saturday at Falcon Stadium in Colorado Springs, Colo. 
Freshmen 
CoNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
group, so when you get them in­volved, especially these young guys, it’s so important to their development. … they’re devel­oping. they’re growing. It’s good to see them have some success.” 
No one knows the benefits of a touchdown in the Irish receiv­ing corps better than Jones, who reeled in the 16th of his career on a 30-yard pump-and-go in saturday’s third quarter and was also excited for his younger teammates. 
Business 
CoNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
the Irish have tightened up the screws. 
since the loss to UsF, the Irish are 4-0 against service academies with a total score of 210-67, after losing four of their previous six. their only losses have come at the hands of the perennial powers of michigan, UsC, stanford, Florida state, oklahoma and some team from alabama. Under Kelly, the Irish have showed up to play every week, a fact that allowed Notre Dame to compete for a national championship in January. 
It also has the Irish in a posi­tion to make a run at the bCs 
“I think it’s very signifi­cant,” Jones said of Fuller and robinson’s touchdowns. “You got glimpses of these young guys and the future, and I think it was good for them to get their first touchdowns and first taste of what can come.” 
the end goal is to follow Jones’s continued success, but any great career has to start somewhere, and Fuller and robinson hope to have made a step on that path by crossing the plane at Falcon stadium. Now, the freshmen and their team­mates will shift their focus to 
this season. this 2013 squad would be hard-pressed to come up with a “statement win” to hang its hat on, and early losses to oklahoma and michigan derailed any hopes of revenge in the national championship. even their wins have lacked style points, as their only vic­tory before saturday won by more than a touchdown was the opener against temple — an­other 1-7 squad. 
It hasn’t been pretty, but Notre Dame’s ability to win as a favorite has brought it to this point: at 6-2, the Irish are three wins away from a thanksgiving trip to stanford with a bCs berth on the line. the oppo­nents between them and Palo the next opportunity to help the Irish win when they host Navy this weekend. 
but on saturday night, robinson was able to celebrate with his family and cherish the moment for a while, enjoying what he hopes to be the first of many. 
“actually now being here, and having my first touchdown, and seeing my dad in the stands cheering for me — that’s spe­cial,” he said. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
alto — Navy, Pittsburgh and bYU — are not powerhouses and are exactly the opponents that Notre Dame is expected to beat. 
In past years, that was no guarantee, and facing lesser opponents was even a curse at times. but if Kelly can keep his team locked in for another three weeks, they’ll control their own destiny to head back to the bCs. 
It all comes down to taking care of business. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Injuries hit Irish lines 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
CoLoraDo sPrINGs, Colo. ­Notre Dame was forced to shuf­fle around its offensive line due to injuries saturday. 
earlier in the week, junior right guard Christian Lombard was ruled out for the rest of the season due to a back injury. Freshman steve elmer earned the start in his place against air Force on satruday. 
the injuries got worse when graduate student left guard Chris Watt left the game in the second quarter. Junior Conor Hanratty filled in for Watt. Irish coach brian Kelly said Watt suf­fered a sprained knee but played a few plays in the second half. 
sophomore right tackle ronnie stanley also left the game in the second half. elmer shifted over to right tackle while junior matt Hegarty came in at right guard. 
“I’ve never, in my four years of playing here, where we had to play so many guys,” graduate student left tackle Zack martin said. 
senior quarterback tommy rees said the makeshift offen­sive line played well. 
“We had a lot of guys that came in and out of the game,” rees said. “I’m excited about their opportunities to play and they did a good job stepping up.” 
Notre Dame’s defensive line depth was also tested when sophomore defensive end sheldon Day limped off the field in the second quarter. the Irish were already without starting senior nose guard Louis Nix, who did not travel due to knee tendinitis. 
Kelly said he would know more about the injuries in the coming days. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

SCORING SUMMARY 






1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  17  14  7  45  
7  3  0  0  10  

AIR FORCE 7, NOTRE DAME 0 
Colton Huntsman 10-yard run (Conant kick) 
5:05 remaining 

AIR FORCE 7, NOTRE DAME 7 
Corey robinson 35-yard pass from rees (brindza kick) 
3:41 remaining 

Drive: Five plays, 75 yards, 1:24 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, AIR FORCE 7 
William Fuller 46-yard pass from rees (brindza kick) 
14:31 remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 91 yards, 2:18 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, AIR FORCE 10 
Will Conant 47-yard field goal 
10:07 remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 46 yards, 4:24 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, AIR FORCE 10 
ben Koyack 22-yard pass from rees (brindza kick) 
8:49remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 51 yards, 1:09 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 24, AIR FORCE 10 
Kyle brindza 51-yard field goal 
3:57remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 21 yards, 3:21 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 31, AIR FORCE 10 
tJ Jones 30-yard pass from rees (brindza kick) 
8:24remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 62 yards, 2:55 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 38, AIR FORCE 10 
Chris brown 15-yard pass from rees (brindza kick) 
3:07remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 63 yards, 3:36 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 45, AIR FORCE 10 
andrew Hendrix 4-yard run (brindza kick) 
13:31 remaining 

Drive: Two plays, 51 yards, 0:26 elapsed 
STATISTICS 
RUSHING YARDS 

135 
290 
PASSING YARDS 

331 


49 

Time of Possession 
29:10 
PASSING 
Rees 17-22-284 Hendrix 1-4-47 
RUSHING 
McDaniel 10-61 Folston 11-47 Atkinson 6-18 Carlisle 3-3 
RECEIVING 

Time of Possession 
30:50 
Romine 6-10-37 Roberts 2-2-12 
Romine 21-76 Lacoste 8-59 Johnson 6-30 Solano and Hart 5-22 each 

Jones 7-104 Fuller 2-93 Robinson 1-35 Daniels 2-34 Koyack 2-29 

Hendricks  1-19  
Huntsman  2-15  
Brown  1-6  
Lee  2-5  
Rushing  1-5  


tHe observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2013 | NDsmCobserver.Com 


MICHAEL KRAMM | The Observer 

Irish junior tight end Troy Niklas reaches up to snag a pass in the first quarter of Notre Dame’s 45-10 victory over Air Force on Saturday at Falcon Stadium in Colorado Springs, Colo. The Irish passing attack totaled 331 yards and senior quarterback Tommy Rees fired five touchdown passes to five different receivers. 
Notre Dame captured its third-straight win with a lopsided victory 
over Air Force in Colorado Springs, Colo. Tommy Rees showed his accuracy and spread the ball around while Cam McDaniel and Tar-
ELEVATING THEIR 
ean Folston showed signs of life at the forefront of a largely quiet Irish rushing unit. Though thinned by injuries, Notre Dame’s “next-man-
PERFORMANCE 
in” strategy was more than enough to beat the Falcons. 




The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By WILL NEAL 
scene writer 

Today can be the day you start embrac­ing your wild side. Today can be the day when all those years of your parents say­ing, “you can do whatever you set your mind to” can finally mean something. Today can be the day when you live out your long-desired fantasies of inner-city skydiving, aircraft hijacking and elabo­rate bank heists … all in a one-hour time span. Today, you could know what it means to truly feel alive. don’t want to believe me? well, you shouldn’t, be­cause what i’m proposing isn’t a genuine reality-based experience. it’s better. it’s “grand Theft auto v.” 
as the newest addition to developer rockstar’s infamous foul-mouthed, adrenaline-junky, video-game series, “grand Theft auto v” (gTav) once again places the player into a realistic envi­ronment that appeals to every deadly sin in the holy book. playing as three delinquents with extreme personali­ties named michael (the criminal fam­ily man), Franklin (the gangster) and Trevor (the wild card) in the fictional los angeles-inspired city of los santos, gamers experience the thrills and consequences of a wildly destructive and dangerous lifestyle. it’s a society of rules and regulations that you must learn to tiptoe around if you plan to have any fun. you didn’t realize, however, that under its absurdly promiscuous, riotous and unre­strained outer shell, there’s a sophisticat­ed satirical nugget of knowledge waiting to be cracked open. 
but gTav is not only an educational experience, but also a developmental one. This is the same game series that has been the relentless target of outraged (yet secretly intrigued) parents, princi­pals and other school officials, countless independent lawsuits, mothers against drunk driving (madd), glenn beck, Jack Thompson (the archenemy of all gamers), working prostitutes (yes, you read that right), new york city, chicago, the nation of new Zealand and the entire continent of australia. it’s been endlessly berated for its consistently graphic acts of sex and violence, as well as its degrad­ing portrayal of women and “promotion” of all forms of adulterated tomfoolery. needless to say, a lot of people hate this game (complete understatement). but let’s try and look at the aK-47 ammuni­tion (so to speak), as half full, shall we? 
i won’t get into the logistics and studies highlighting both sides of the “violence in video games” dilemma that has been sweeping our nation for years — that’s what the internet is for. instead, i’d like to focus on the lessons and positives one can draw from this gaming experience. First of all, absolute freedom still has its consequences. nothing brings this point full circle like seeking your revenge on the local bar owner with an armed mili­tary vessel, only to be devastatingly shot down by a barrage of swaT team forces. “grand Theft auto” teaches us that just like in life, our choices may lead to some ridiculous fun, but may also lead to some pretty horrendous consequences. and just like life, “grand Theft auto” offers the joys of one massive metaphorical sandbox, but it’s all fun and games until you throw sand in the other kid’s eye. 

secondly, a dose of “grand Theft auto” is just what the doctor ordered. nothing relieves stress quite like driving a hi­jacked vehicle into an oncoming loco­motive while plowing through a horde of rival gang members. sure, there are con­sequences to your actions in the game, but let’s be realistic: the real fun of the game comes from its absurdly destruc­tive nature. and you know what? That’s okay, because it provides people one of the few windows of opportunity to chan­nel their aggression and frustration into a zero-threat environment. it’s not just fun — it’s therapeutic, man. 
Thirdly, it’s always more fun to play with friends. now offering online capa­bilities, gTav shows players of all ages the fun benefits of friendly competi­tion and social interaction. Just because you’re virtually robbing a bank with your classmates doesn’t mean some life long friendships can’t be forged! 
Finally, play like the guy you don’t want to be. it’s fun to be a delinquent. why? because we’d never be influenced to be this unbelievably crude, stupid and destructive in the real world. our three main protagonists are awful human be­ings, and while it’s insanely fun to live through them vicariously, they’re prime examples of how not to behave. 
“grand Theft auto” may always strike hatred and controversy in its lifetime, but this latest game is a reminder of the unforgettably enjoyable experience it provides. gTav may be violent and un­conventional, but it’s a heck of a way to have some fun and even learn something in the process. 
Contact Will Neal at wneal@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The Series baffles fans far and wide 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
There are a lot of pointless en­deavors in the world. Trying to gauge south bend weather, attempting to make sense of miley cyrus’s wardrobe choices and searching for cell phone reception on game day — let’s face it, they’re all lost causes. but there is no exercise quite as useless as predicting the outcome of sporting events. 
remember last week, when the good people of sports media were busy tell­ing baseball fans what they could expect from upcom­ing world series games? The most knowledgeable experts touted the strength of the cardinals pitching staff or boston’s home field advan­tage at Fenway park. They dwelled on the possible im­pact of st. louis outfielder carlos beltrán and whether or not he would get the best of sox pitchers Jon lester, clay buchholz and Jake peavy, and they discussed the extent to which the american league red sox would miss the des­ignated hitter spot during games at busch stadium. 
(side note: The two leagues have been playing by separate designated hitter rules for 40 years now. can we just agree that it’s silly to have to choose between removing a pitcher who could go another inning and watching him strike out with the bases loaded? The nl should just accept the dh and put an end to this madness.) 
but as the red sox lead the series, 3-2, it’s clear the talk­ing heads couldn’t fathom how truly unusual these games would prove to be. Forget about pitching match-ups; an obstruction call and a pickoff ended saturday and sunday’s games, respectively. (i would like to point out that i actually have seen an extra-innings game that ended with a walk-off wild pitch, so don’t think the possible wacky game conclusions have been exhausted just yet.) The little leaguers in williamsport would blush at the number of errors that have been com­mitted so far. 
boston outfielder Jonny gomes, who took part in the “stand up to cancer” dis­play after the fifth inning of game Four, said he felt angels watching over him when he hit a three-run homer in the next inning. call them celes­tial intangibles. The cynics of the world might have a hard time believing that story, but it’s positively reasonable compared to david ortiz’s description of where he gets his oratorical inspiration. after the game, big papi said his stirring, profanity-filled pump-up speech on the dug­out steps between the fifth and sixth innings of the same game was informed by bill clinton’s speeches. really. 
“he changes a lot of lives with his speeches,” ortiz said. “i watch him. i learn. if you can get people to listen, they will react.” 
it’s safe to say no one saw any of this coming — from the cardinals’ obstruction-aided win to the revelation that big papi spends his free time watching clinton speeches. but if there’s one redeeming thing about sports predic­tions, it’s that they are al­most more fun when they are smashed to pieces. after all, isn’t the uncertainty the most compelling reason to watch a game in the first place? in any other form of entertain­ment, the author or the direc­tor or the singer knows how everything is supposed to conclude. only in sports are the participants as unsure of the outcome as the audience. That’s one way to ratchet up the tension. 
so, how’s this series going to end? i have no idea. maybe there’s a 17-inning game wait­ing for us, or maybe there’s an inside-the-park home run in the cards. personally, i’m rooting for boston to clinch its third championship in 10 years with a steal of home. but as for what’s actually going to happen, no one can honestly say that they have any idea. and thank goodness for that. 
Contact Vicky Jacobesen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

irish win one, lose three 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 

after snapping a seven-match losing streak on the road against georgia Tech on oct. 12, the irish returned home and picked up their first acc home victory with a 3-1 defeat of miami, then the acc’s top team. 
behind 44 combined kills from senior defensive special­ist sammie brown and junior outside hitters Jeni houser and Toni alugbue, notre dame (8-13, 2-8 acc) stymied the hurricanes (13-7, 6-4), the sec­ond defeat in what proved to be a series of four consecutive losses for miami. 
“it was definitely a good vic­tory for us,” irish coach debbie brown said. “we got balanced production from several dif­ferent players and played very good defense.” 
miami junior outside hitter savannah leaf led all players with 17 kills but proved un­able to lift the hurricanes to a win. brown praised the work sammie brown did defending leaf. 
“we did a very good job of stopping one of their best play­ers and one of the best players in the conference,” brown said. “sammie [brown] did a really good job following the scout­ing report and shadowing her all game.” 
The irish took the first set 25­23 but dropped the second by the same score before control­ling the third and fourth on the way to the victory. senior cap­tain and libero andrea mchugh led the irish defensively with 21 digs, while senior setter maggie brindock notched 45 assists. 
Two days later, notre dame hosted no. 20 Florida state, looking to begin a win streak, but fell to the seminoles (15-6, 8-2) in straight sets. The irish struggled to get anything go­ing offensively, scoring just eight points in the opening set and 13 in the third. while they pushed Florida state to 25-23 in the second, the seminoles’ strong front line proved too 

FOR RENT 

B&B for ND/SMC parents by ND parents, 2 night minimum. 10 min­utes from campus. 574-272-5640 
“Wake Me Up” -Avicii 
Feeling my way through the dark­ness/Guided by a beating heart/I can’t tell where the journey will end/But I know where to start They tell me I’m too young to un­derstand/ They say I’m caught up in a dream/Well life will pass me by if I don’t open up 

much, forcing notre dame into 
a .042 hitting percentage. on offense, Florida state hit an impressive .379, led by senior right-side hitter elise walch and sophomore outside hitter nicole walch. 
on Friday, the irish opened a two-game road trip in blacksburg, va., against virginia Tech, falling 3-1 de­spite a strong defensive effort. The irish recorded 18 blocks, including 10 from houser and six from brindock but hit just .116 on offense with 25 errors. 
The storyline proved familiar again sunday as notre dame struggled on offense and failed to capitalize on a first-set win in falling 3-1 to virginia. 
“we’re really just failing to generate enough kills,” brown said. “That’s really what it’s coming down to. we got good blocking against virginia Tech and a decent hitting percent­age against virginia, but we’re just not getting the number of kills we need.” 
brown acknowledged that generating kills is a team effort, not just the task of the hitters. 
“sometimes the passes are off and it puts us out of sys­tem,” brown said. “sometimes the setting is off by just a little. There’s been no one problem for us all year. we just need to have consistency.” 
with the acc season half­way finished and the majority of games against the top teams in the conference already played, the irish feel they have a shot to put up a strong sec­ond half. 
“it’s hard when you’ve lost so many in a row, but we ab­solutely feel that we’re going to make a run,” brown said. “we think we can go on a great winning streak. every game we’ve played so far has been a challenge for us, but we’re very optimistic.” 
The irish next play at home against maryland at 4 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
my eyes/Well that’s fine by me So wake me up when it’s all over/ When I’m wiser and I’m older/ All this time I was finding my­self/And I didn’t know I was lost 
So wake me up when it’s all over/ When I’m wiser and I’m older/ All this time I was finding my­self/And I didn’t know I was lost 
I tried carrying the weight of the world/But I only have two hands/Hope I get the chance to travel the world/ But I don’t have any plans Wish that I could stay forever this young/Not afraid to close my eyes/Life’s a game made for everyone/And love is the prize So wake me up when it’s all over/ When I’m wiser and I’m older/ All this time I was finding my­self/And I didn’t know I was lost 
So wake me up when it’s all over/ When I’m wiser and I’m older/ All this time I was finding my­self/And I didn’t know I was lost 
Didn’t know I was lost/I didn’t know I was lost/I didn’t know I was lost/I didn’t know (didn’t know, didn’t know) 



ND MEN’S TENNIS 

ND MEN’S GOLF | 5Th ouT oF 10 
Irish thrive over fall break 
wingo leads irish 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
it may have been fall break, but the irish kept busy over the past week, playing in the usTa/iTa midwest regional championships in columbus, ohio, the usTa collegiate clay championships in orlando, Fla., and the uT invitational in austin, Texas, reaching at least the quarterfinals in all of them. 
notre dame had one of its strongest showings of the fall at the regional championships in columbus, irish coach ryan sachire said. Five players ad­vanced to the round of 32 in singles play, and two doubles teams reached the quarterfi­nals. senior greg andrews led the charge for the irish, reach­ing the finals in both singles and doubles play, with sopho­more alex lawson. 
andrews lost to ohio state senior peter Kobelt in the sin­gles final, and andrews and lawson fell to Kobelt and his partner, sophomore Kevin metka, in the doubles fi­nal. still, sachire said he was pleased with the overall play of his squad. 
“greg [andrews] played great all weekend,” sachire said. “he lost in heartbreaking fashion to one of the best play­ers in the country on his home court, so there’s some disap­pointment in not getting the win when you worked so hard and were so close, but greg played some of his best tennis ever this weekend. our team in general played a great tour­nament. The level of play we brought was extremely high.” 

sachire also said he was im­pressed with lawson’s play and could use the doubles team of lawson and andrews in the spring. 
“There are other options that we may play, but clearly, we know that if we do go with greg [andrews] and alex [lawson] together, then they have the chance to win every doubles match they play. alex proved last year he was one of the elite doubles players in the country, and he and greg cemented that at the regional championship.” 
The irish next took the court at the collegiate clay champi­onships at orlando, Fla., and the uT invitational in austin, Texas. To choose which players played in which tournament, sachire said he and his coach­ing staff considered several factors. 
“a lot of it was based on where the players were from,” sachire said. “we have several players from Texas, so we sent them to the Texas invitational. we also considered how each player’s game would translate best to each surface. we played a clay tournament earlier in the year at the [olympia Fields 
paid adverTisemenT 
country club invitational], so the players that did well there, 

with six birdies in 
we were confident would do well in orlando.” 
The moves paid off, as soph­omore Quentin monaghan 

round one 
advanced to the quarterfi­nals of the clay champion­ships before falling to no. 1 seed and eventual champi­on, roberto Quiroz, a junior from usc. in austin, seniors ryan bandy and matt dooley and freshman Josh hagar all reached the quarterfinals. in addition, sachire said he was particularly pleased with the play of sophomore Kenny sabacinski, who advanced to the second round of the clay championships in both dou­bles and singles play. 
“This may not jump off of the page, but sabacinski was the guy who came out of the weekend helping himself the most in terms of getting some really great wins. even though he lost in the second round, his wins were very good. he’s had a great fall, and this past weekend did nothing but strengthen his season.” 
The irish next compete at the usTa/iTa national indoor championships in Flushing meadows, n.y., starting nov. 7. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 



By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports writer 
The irish currently stand in fifth place going into the third day of golf in the 
invitational at the  ocean  
course in Kiawah  island,  
sc.  

The irish are competing against no. 8 george, no. 17 south Florida and no. 39 Kentucky. south Florida leads the pack with an even-par score of 576, while notre dame trails behind with a score of 597 after scoring a 301 in the first round and 296 in the second. 
“we drove the ball very well today,” irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “our team has done a nice job from tee to green so far this week.” 
The ocean course, home of the 2012 pga champi­onship, is set up at a par 72 and 7,051 yards for the tournament. 
Junior Tyler wingo leads the irish, tied for seventh, with a score of 145 (one­above-par) after two rounds of golf. he golfed a 68 (-4) in his first round and a 77 (+5) in his second round. 
“Tyler [wingo] has hit the ball very well,” Kubinski said. “his 68 yesterday was not only his college best but one of the best rounds any­one will play at Kiawah.” 
wingo had six birdies in his first round and only two bogeys. but he had trouble in the beginning of the sec­ond round, finishing with a bogey and a double bogey on the first two holes. 
The next irish player in the standings is senior niall platt, who is tied for 14th. platt shot a 76 (four above-par) for his first round and 71 (one below-par) for his second round for a overall score of 147. 
Junior patrick grahek is currently third for the irish and tied for 35th overall. he shot a score of 152 (+8), after a first round score of 80 and an even 72 in the second round. 
“i loved patrick [grahek] bouncing back with a 72 yesterday, after a tough first day,” Kubinski said. “maybe it was a birthday present for him, as he turned 21 yester­day. he played an incredibly steady round today.” 
in his second round, grahek shot a bogey on the fifth hole to bring him one above-par, then shot nine pars in a row and finished with a birdie and two pars to bring him to an even score. 
The irish will start their final day of golf today at 
7:20 am in a shotgun style format. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
come some time next week. 
“you get into the balancing point of what’s best for the kid and what’s best for the team,” brey said. “i think that’s what we’ve got to figure out.” 
biedscheid averaged 6.2 points, 1.4 rebounds and 1.0 as­sist per game in his freshman season a year ago. he averaged 
17.4 minutes in 34 games in his debut campaign and figured to be a key part of the irish rotation. 
brey said the coaching staff would not have even thought about redshirting biedscheid if the freshman guards — demetrius Jackson and steve vasturia — were not ready to play. 
“i don’t think you could even consider … what’s best for our team unless your freshman guards have been really im­pressive and consistent and solid, and all [two] of them have been,” brey said. “if that wasn’t the case, i think the discussion would have ended saturday in my office, we can’t do it. we may be able to do it because we have some depth there and what’s best for the kid.” 
in addition to biedscheid, the irish were also without injured graduate student forward Tom Knight (back) and sophomore forwards Zach auguste (wrist) and eric Katenda (knee) in the win over the greyhounds. 
graduate student center garrick sherman led notre dame with 21 points on 10 of 


W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
(8-6-4, 5-4-3). 
“it was great to see rilka [noel] get her first goal this year against duke, and that was an important one for us at the time,” waldrum said. “she has been getting a lot of time for us as a freshman this year, and we need her to continue to do that, especially in this run we’re getting ready to get on. we need her and [freshman midfielder] cindy pineda to give us even more than what we’re getting right now.” 
at the same time, notre dame also celebrated the contributions of its four se­niors — laddish, midfielder nicole rodriguez, midfielder elizabeth Tucker and forward rebecca Twining — with a pregame ceremony before the game against duke. laddish compiled a goal and an as­sist against the eagles in her final regular-season match at alumni stadium and also add­ed an assist against clemson. 
waldrum said the leader­ship of notre dame’s seniors, the only holdovers from the 2010 national championship squad, would be critical in the team’s upcoming games. 
“The experience [the se­niors] have is going to be really important because we’re still 14 shooting. he also added six rebounds. 
“why can’t [sherman] have a great senior year like many of the guys in our program?” brey said. “guys have great senior years here. why can’t he be one of them?” 
sherman will be counted on to pick up some of the rebounds notre dame lost when forward Jack cooley departed after last season. cooley averaged 10.1 boards a season ago, and the irish return only one player who averaged more than four rebounds per game. 
indianapolis outrebounded 
really young,” he said. “if we’re going to get back to a Final Four, then they are going to have to be really willing to step up and lead us there because they’re the only ones who have done it before.” 
notre dame clinched its berth in the eight-team acc championship with the vic­tory over clemson. The irish, who currently sit fifth in the conference, will find out their seed after they close out the regular season with a trip to no. 3 Florida state on Thursday. 
“we know we’re in; we’re sol­id in our position,” waldrum said. “we’re just waiting until after Thursday’s game to see who we’re actually playing in the quarterfinals. 
“The main thing is being concerned that we’re getting as good of a draw as we can in the ncaas, and that’s why it was important to get those wins. not that it’s not impor­tant for the conference — the conference is certainly im­portant to us — but i think it’s more for the ncaas.” 
The irish will close the conference season with a halloween-night visit to Tallahassee, Fla. The game begins at the seminole soccer complex at 8 p.m. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
26-5 run to take a 20-point lead into the break. during the run, the greyhounds went 8:24 min­utes without a field goal, while eight different notre dame players registered a field goal. 
From then, indianapolis never trimmed the deficit to less than 13, while the irish stretched the lead to as much as 28. 
notre dame’s exhibition season continues Friday night when it takes on Tusculum at 9 
p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

the irish 40-36 (including 16-7 on the offensive glass) and beat notre dame in second chance points, 12-4. 
“i still think it’s a concern for us,” brey said. “i think we couldn’t get our hands on enough of them tonight in one-and-done situations, so it put a lot of pressure on our offense. … i think that’s going to a thing we have to really emphasize and look at.” 
The irish dished out 29 assists and turned the ball over just seven times. brey said the of­fensive efficiency was a stamp of his program. 
“That’s how we play,” brey said. “The hallmark here has been we take good care of that thing, we share it, we don’t turn it over, we know what a good shot is. we had a lot of good shot-makers out there, and our young guys are shot-makers.” 
The greyhounds stayed with the irish for the opening min­utes of the game, staying within three points of the irish as the lead changed hands five times. indianapolis led notre dame 23-22 after junior forward manny ochenje’s jumper with 
8:43 left in the first half. The irish closed the half on a 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 




Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
The response prompted officials to give the goalie a game miscon­duct and the irish a five-minute major penalty. while the irish killed the penalty and eventually won the game, Jackson said summerhays must understand the irish need him to be a stable presence this season. 
“he responded poorly, he un­derstands that,” Jackson said. “we need him to be composed, because he’s the guy that has to take us to the promised land. he’s got to play with emotional control and not lose his temper because we can’t afford to lose him in a game like that.” 
summerhays saved 14 shots be­fore his ejection and left the irish with a 3-1 lead, but the irish faced a dangerous situation following his exit. Katunar entered the game for his first action all season and im­mediately found himself helping kill a five-on-three bulldog power play due to the penalty. while the bulldogs did take advantage with a goal by sophomore defenseman andy welinski, Katunar saved the other five shots he faced and pre­served the 3-2 lead through the final horn. Jackson said he was impressed with the freshman’s perseverance, especially considering the difficult situation he faced in his debut. 
“it’s unfortunate that he had to be put in that situation, but i actu­ally felt he handled it pretty well,” Jackson said. “he gave up the five­on-three goal, which he didn’t have much chance to stop, and after that he shut the door. he did a good job winning that game at the end for us.” 
Jackson said he wanted to get Katunar more experience follow­ing his debut, resulting in the fresh­man starting game Two of the series. midway through the first period, bulldogs senior forward Joe basaraba snuck a backhand past Katunar from the slot, opening the floodgates for minnesota-duluth’s offense. The bulldogs scored twice more within the next three-and-a­half minutes, with goals from junior forward caleb hebert and fresh­man forward dominic Toninato. all three goals came from up close, and Jackson said the irish defense should have done a better job protecting the front of the net and its goaltender. 
“in all reality, all three goals were a direct result poor play by us in front of [Katunar],” Jackson said. “regardless of whether he could have stopped any of those three shots, they were all dangerous scoring chances…” 
The first period ended with the irish outshot 14-, and facing a 3-0 deficit that proved too much to overcome. Jackson reinserted summerhaes for the final two pe­riods, but the bulldogs expanded their lead to 4-0 on freshman for­ward Kyle osterberg’s goal in the second period. The irish finally broke crandall’s shutout in the third period with a power play goal by junior right wing austin wuthrich off assists from Tynan and hinostroza, but the final mar­gin would remain 4-1. 
The irish will try to recover when they go back on the road against vermont for a pair of games this weekend. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
cavaliers. 
clark said the half time-fram­ing goals hurt notre dame’s momentum. 
“possibly what hurt us most was the timing of goals,” clark said. “we lost points at critical times in game, and losing goals at these times was difficult for us to recover.” 
The irish had three shots in the second half but came up with nothing to prove their efforts. 
Junior defender max lachowecki fired the first shot of the second half for the irish with a shot from 19 yards in the 53rd minute, but virginia sophomore goalkeeper Jeff gal made a diving save to block lachowecki’s shot. 
in another attempt to score, cicciarelli headed the ball in the 76th minute for notre dame’s last shot on goal, but again, gal stopped the shot. 

gal’s saves and the cavaliers’ de­fense drove the irish to only their second shutout of the season, the first since notre dame’s scoreless draw against ucla in the season opener. 
“i would say the most challeng­ing part of this game was virginia’s defensive discipline,” cicciarelli said. “it was clear before the game that they came in with game plan of shutting down our midfield, and they executed that very well. 
“They were very disciplined with keeping our numbers back and staying true to their shape of formation, and that was difficult to combat.” 
Though the irish experienced their first loss of the season, clark said he was not disappointed in the team’s overall performance. 
“i was very pleased with the ef­fort of team — They never gave up,” clark said. “one of the things i liked best was with one minute to go, the team was still fighting and working very hard to get anything out of the game.” 
The irish move on from this loss to play no. 15 wake Forest (8-3-5, 5-0-4) on saturday. wake Forest is first in the acc and currently only one point ahead of the irish, who are second in the conference standings. 
“we have to take a few things out of this game against virginia and move on to wake Forest, which is a huge game for us,” clark said. “The 
paid adverTisemenT 

implications of this week’s match said. “our mindset going into this are huge.” game is to focus like it’s the college 
cicciarelli agreed the wake cup final.” Forest game is crucial for notre The irish gear up to take on the dame and its standings in the deacon demons at spry stadium conference, and he said the loss to in winston-salem, n.c., on virginia served as a wake-up call saturday at 7 p.m. for the team. 
“This is definitely a game we Contact Kit Loughran at need to prepare for and to win,” he kloughr1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 




HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Joaquin phoenix, 39; brad paisley, 41; Julia roberts, 46; bruce Jenner, 64. 
Happy Birthday: look for new beginnings and use past experience to intuitively direct you down a path that promises security, confidence and self-perpetuated prospects. call in favors and take a progressive leap in a direction that you find fas­cinating. steer clear of emotional situations that show no promise of getting better. cut your losses and concentrate on making positive gains. your numbers are 7, 13, 21, 27, 34, 39, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): do the unexpected. The element of surprise will help you capture the attention of someone special. romance is in the stars, and express­ing your feelings will change the way you move forward. moderate living will help improve your financial position. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): move forward cautiously. investments or joint ventures will not be as rich in returns as you hope. being informed will help you gauge what you should do and how to handle anyone who doesn’t agree with you. don’t fold under pressure. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): get your home in order. extend a helping hand to some­one you love. make the changes needed to improve your community and make your life easier. a strong bond with someone will improve your future. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): get together with people who can influence or contrib­ute to your success. share your ideas and you will be given a host of options that you can use to implement what you have to offer. promote, present and perform.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t give in if it is going to affect your position or your con­fidence. you have to make a choice that will encourage you to do what’s best for you. positive decisions will get you past any negative melodrama. love is featured.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): make observations and take a position that will enable you to get your point across and move in a direction you want to go without feeling guilty. learn from past mistakes and emotional experiences that may have set you back. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): pitch in and help. don’t let laziness cost you your reputa­tion or leave you in a position that gives you no maneuverability. step up and do what’s required of you to make a difference to your life and your future prospects.  



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep your emotions well hidden. it won’t be worth get­ting upset because you have a difference of opinion with someone. do what works best for you and don’t look back. Taking a unique position will generate interest and create intrigue.  


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): it’s time to make positive changes in your personal life, attitude and future commitments. use past experiences as your guide and you will avoid taking on a responsibility or situation that is based on false information. honesty is a must.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t pay for someone else’s mistake. size up whatever situation you face and offer suggestions, but don’t take over. The way you handle work-related matters is directly linked to future advancement. show your integrity and ability to be a leader.  

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Question anything and anyone you don’t feel comfort­able with. realize that you can make a last-minute change in order to avoid a situa­tion that doesn’t suit your needs or will not help you reach your goals. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): work hard, play hard and enjoy what life has to offer. your persistence will pay off. discuss your plans and whatever you need to move forward will be made available to you. don’t let an emotional relationship stand in your way.  


Birthday Baby: you are determined, passionate and dedicated. you are curious, insightful and progressive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying  address  
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.  
city       state  Zip  


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 3, bc 1; nd 2, clemson 0 
MEN’S SOCCER | virginia 2, nd 0 
virginia hands nd first loss 
Team wins a pair 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The no. 2 irish fell for the first time this season in a 2-0 loss to no. 23 virginia at home saturday. 
notre dame (8-1-5, 5-1-3 acc) was thrown off guard by the cavaliers’ ability to shut down the irish attack. while the game marked notre dame’s first loss and its first game surrendering two goals this season, it boosted the cavaliers’ unbeaten streak to 10 games. 
“you have to give virginia credit,” irish head coach bobby clark said. “They came in with a game plan, and they were the first team that curtailed us to just seven shots. virginia shut down [senior forward] harry [shipp] and our midfielders [sophomore] connor Klekota and [junior] robby gallegos.” 
virginia (7-3-4, 3-2-4) outshot the irish (8-7) and took four cor­ner kicks to notre dame’s two. 
Junior forward vince cicciarelli provided notre dame’s best op­portunity to score in the opening half when he drove through the penalty box in the 19th minute and fired a shot 10 yards wide of the near post. 
with two minutes left in the first half, virginia sophomore for­ward darius madison powered 

to break streak 
success in its last two games partially resulted from im­proved play in the midfield. 
“i thought our midfield, between [sophomore cari] roccaro, [senior mandy] laddish and [freshman] morgan andrews, was much better these last two games,” waldrum said. “i think they sat too deep defensively, so we re­ally worked on these last two weeks talking to them a lot and getting them pushed higher up the field to connect a little bit better with the front-runners.” 
equally important to notre dame’s rebound has been the recent contributions of its first-year players. andrews had a goal and two assists to lead the irish against boston college (9-8-1, 5-5-1), and freshman forward Kaleigh olmsted put the team on the board with a goal in the eighth minute against clemson (7-7-4, 4-6-2). 
Freshman goalkeeper Kaela little recorded her first shutout since sept. 29 against the Tigers, and freshman midfielder rilka noel added her first college goal in the loss to the blue devils 
see w soccer PAGE 12 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 

The irish weren’t about to 
make history for all the wrong 
reasons. 

after notre dame (11-5-1, 7-4­1 acc) tied the school record for consecutive losses with a 2-1 double-overtime defeat at the hands of duke on oct. 20, it re­bounded with a 3-1 victory over boston college on Thursday and a 2-0 win at clemson on sunday to clinch its berth in the upcoming acc championship. 
The victory over the eagles (9-8-1, 5-5-1) snapped notre dame’s four-game losing streak, which tied a university record first set in 1989. 
“i think we just got caught in a couple of games where we had the mindset of see­ing what virginia or virginia Tech or duke was going to do to us,” irish coach randy waldrum said. “we had a much more positive attitude [against 
through the irish defense and situated on the deep, right side 

boston college] about starting sailed the ball past irish senior of the penalty box and shot from 
the game quick and going back goalkeeper patrick wall to score the corner of the six-yard box to 
to realizing that we’re notre from 18 yards. score the second goal for the 
dame, and teams have to worry immediately after returning 
about us.” from intermission, madison was see m soccer PAGE 14 
waldrum said notre dame’s 
HOCKEY | nd 3, umd 2; umd 4, nd 1 
umd sink irish 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
no. 2 notre dame lost its first game of the season last weekend, as minnesota-duluth recovered from a 3-2 loss to the irish on Friday night to claim a 4-1 victory in the second game of the series. 
before the loss, notre dame’s 5-0 start was the best for the irish (5-1) under coach Jeff Jackson, and their best since starting 6-0 in the 1998-99 season. coach Jackson said he doubts the loss will have any lingering effects. 
“we’ve had a pretty good team response to the loss,” Jackson said. “we practiced today and were sharp, so i assume that we’re al­ready focused on the next game.” 
The irish were able to top minnesota-duluth (3-2-1) in game one behind strong perfor­mances from senior goaltender stephen summerhays and fresh­man goaltender chad Katunar, who was forced into action follow­ing summerhays’ third-period ejection. notre dame scored a trio of goals in the second period. senior captain and left wing Jeff costello scored first for the irish on an assist from junior defenseman robbie russo, squeezing a wrist shot past bulldogs senior goalie aaron crandall for his third goal of the season. The bulldogs fired back when sophomore forward cal decowski slipped the rebound of junior forward adam Krause’s shot past summerhays. 
The irish regained the lead when russo and senior center 
T.J. Tynan assisted sophomore left wing mario lucia on his third goal of the season. The power play goal gave the irish a 2-1 lead that they soon extended, as junior right wing peter schneider put away a rebound of freshman center vince hinostroza’s shot for his first goal of the season less than two min­utes later. 
as the third period began and time for a bulldogs comeback ticked away, the bulldogs upped the physicality. Just over five minutes into the final period, with the bulldogs attempting to close the gap, Krause crashed into summerhays, knocking the goalie and the goal to the ice. after no penalty was called on Krause, summerhays retaliated, grabbing Krause’s facemask. 
see hocKey PAGE 13 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 95, indianapolis 69 
brey: biedscheid to redshirt 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 

irish sophomore forward cameron biedscheid may not play this season, coach mike brey said following notre dame’s 95­69 exhibition win over division ii indianapolis on monday night. 
brey said the no. 22 irish would consider redshirting biedscheid and keeping him for a fifth season. 
“[it] may be the best thing for him in the long run — get older, get stronger, academically, all the above,” brey said. “Those are usually the points. [Former irish forward] Tim abromaitis did it in his second year. you don’t always have to redshirt as a freshman. it’s kind of an ongoing discussion.” 
abromaitis sat out his sopho­more season and used his extra year of eligibility in 2011-12. his fifth season was cut short, howev­er, by a torn acl, and he appeared in just two games. 
in 2008, abromaitis played in an exhibition game in a year he eventually redshirted. due to ncaa rules, he missed the first four contests of his final season. biedscheid sat out monday’s game to avoid a similar situation. 
brey said the coaching staff had loosely discussed redshirt­ing biedscheid, but the 6-foot-7 st. louis native approached brey this weekend about the possibility. 
“we’ve never forced it on a guy; a guy’s got to want to do it,” brey said. “actually, he brought it up to me in a meeting over the weekend. he said ‘coach, i’ve been think­ing about it, my family and i have been talking about it. what do you think?’” 


brey said a decision should 
see m basKeTball PAGE 12 




